{"id": "38310966", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38310966", "title": "Argeus (pretender)", "text": "Argeus (pretender)\n\nArgeus (Greek: Ἀργαῖος, Argaios, Latin: Argaeus) was a Greek general who claimed the right to the throne of ancient Macedon during the rule of Philip II of Macedon.\n\nArgeus was supported by Athens, which opposed Macedon, and used Athenian money to buy a mercenary army and take the port city of Methone. Argeus was ultimately not successful in opposing Philip, as Macedon was able to unite all of Greece by the time of Philip's death.\n\n"}
{"id": "9293980", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9293980", "title": "BTF (finance)", "text": "BTF (finance)\n\nBTFs (Bons du Trésor à taux fixe et à intérêts précomptés) are fixed-rate short-term discount Treasury bills issued by the French debt agency Agence France Trésor (AFT). They are fungible securities whose original maturity is less than or equal to one year. BTFs are issued on a weekly basis by auction, according to a quarterly calendar published in advance specifying the maturity of bills to be auctioned. A 3-month BTF is issued each week, together with a semi-annual or annual BTF.\n"}
{"id": "41217151", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41217151", "title": "Barbara Kistler", "text": "Barbara Kistler\n\nBarbara Anna Kistler (21 November 1955 – January 1993) was a Swiss maoist revolutionary, TKP/ML activist and member of the Workers' and Peasants' Liberation Army of Turkey.\n\nKistler was born in Zürich, Switzerland. She was member of the Group Against Isolation (KGI), which was seeking to build a Communist Party in Switzerland. In 1980, she met communists from Turkey who had fled to Switzerland to escape the military coup. In 1986 Barbara Kistler came into contact with sympathizers of the TKP/ML. On 19 May 1991, she was arrested in Istanbul together with her comrades. She was held incommunicado for 10 days and according to Marcel Bosonnet (a Swiss lawyer) \"severely tortured\" Kistler was released on September 16 and returned to Switzerland. Then she went back to Turkey. She decided to go to the mountains of Turkey to join the armed struggle of the Workers' and Peasants' Liberation Army of Turkey. She was killed in Tunceli Province, in 1993.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "35852790", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35852790", "title": "Baren Township riot", "text": "Baren Township riot\n\nThe Baren Township riot was an uprising and armed conflict that took place between Uyghur militants and Chinese government forces in April 1990. It is unclear what happened during the armed conflict because reports of the incident vary greatly.\n\nChinese sources state that the uprising was initiated by 200 Uyghur militants armed with advanced weaponry who attacked Chinese paramilitary forces throughout the township of Baren. These reports indicate that Afghani militia forces may have been directly involved. Reportedly, Afghan-trained Islamists set up loudspeakers in mosques of Baren Township urging the local Uyghur population to \"rise up against Chinese oppression and work toward establishing an independent Uyghur Islamic state\" while praising jihad. In response, Chinese government forces crushed the uprising by force over the course of three days.\n\nOn April 5, 1990, in Kizilsu's Akto County and in the township of Baren, Zeydin Yusup, the leader of the East Turkistan Islamic Party, led a protest with around 200 men. They marched to the local government office and demanded an end to the mass immigration of Han Chinese into Xinjiang. One source states that the protests were the result of 250 forced abortions imposed upon local Uyghur women by the Chinese government. Another source states that the protests were the result of local Uyghurs not being allowed to build a mosque.\n\nThe Chinese government initially sent in a detachment of armed police to the site of the disturbance. The Uyghur forces and the authorities started fighting, and the violence spread through the town. The uprising, which lasted for several days, ended when the Chinese government sent hundreds of heavily armed police and soldiers to quell the riots.\n\nThe Turkistan Islamic Party mentioned the Baren Township riot in issue 1 of its magazine, \"Islamic Turkistan\", in an article about the region's history. The third issue of its magazine commemorated the death of Zeydin Yusup (Dia al din bin Yusuf), the TIP member involved in the Baren Township riot. Khalid Turkistani wrote an article in Issue 13 of the \"Islamic Turkistan\" magazine, saying he was a participant in the \"jihad\" in Baren and was jailed for it by the Chinese government in 1990.\n\nDoğu Türkistan Bülteni Haber Ajansı mentioned a brief history of the Turkistan Islamic Party, from Zeyiddin Yusuf founding it in 1988 in \"East Turkestan\", to its participation in the riots and insurgency, its \"jihad in the path of Allah\", its migration in 1996 under Hasan Mahsum to the Taliban controlled Islamic Emirate of Afghanistan, and its war since 2001 against the \"Crusaders\" for 15 years in the \"Afghan jihad\", to 2012, when it entered the Syrian Civil War.\n\nOne source states that the conflict ended on April 10, 1990, with 23 dead total and 21 injured, and that 232 Uyghur fighters were captured. Another source states that as many as 1,600 people were killed during the armed conflict. In July 1990 the Chinese government in Xinjiang announced the arrest of 7,900 people citing the \"criminal activities of ethnic splittists and other criminal offenders\" as the reason. An official account of civilian casualties is absent.\n"}
{"id": "901529", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=901529", "title": "Blaine Amendment", "text": "Blaine Amendment\n\nThe Blaine Amendment was first a failed amendment to the U.S. Constitution and then several enacted provisions in 38 of the 50 state constitutions in the United States. These provisions forbid direct government aid to educational institutions that have a religious affiliation. They were designed to prohibit aid to parochial schools, especially those operated by the Catholic Church in locations with large immigrant populations. The Blaine Amendment emerged from a growing consensus among Protestants that public education must be free from sectarian or denominational control, and from nativist tendencies hostile to immigrants.\n\nPresident Ulysses S. Grant (1869–77) in a speech in 1875 to a veteran's meeting, called for a Constitutional amendment that would mandate free public schools and prohibit the use of public money for sectarian schools. He was echoing nativist sentiments that were strong in his Republican Party.\n\nGrant laid out his agenda for \"good common school education.\" He attacked government support for \"sectarian schools\" run by religious organizations, and called for the defense of public education \"unmixed with sectarian, pagan or atheistical dogmas.\" Grant declared that \"Church and State\" should be \"forever separate.\" Religion, he said, should be left to families, churches, and private schools devoid of public funds.\n\nAfter Grant's speech Republican Congressman James G. Blaine (1830-1893) proposed the amendment to the federal Constitution. Blaine, who actively sought Catholic votes when he ran for president in 1884, believed that possibility of hurtful agitation on the school question should be ended. In 1875, the proposed amendment passed by a vote of 180 to 7 in the House of Representatives, but failed by four votes to achieve the necessary two-thirds vote in the United States Senate. It never became federal law.\n\nThe proposed text was:\nSupporters of the proposal then turned their attention to state legislatures, where their efforts met with far greater success. Eventually, all but 10 states (Arkansas, Connecticut, Maine, Maryland, New Jersey, North Carolina, Rhode Island, Tennessee, Vermont, and West Virginia) passed laws that meet the general criteria for designation as \"Blaine amendments,\" in that they ban the use of public funds to support sectarian private schools. In some states the provisions in question were included in newly drafted constitutions, rather than adopted as amendments to an existing constitution.\n\nThe state Blaine amendments remain in effect in many states. In 2012, 46% of voters endorsed a measure repealing Florida's Blaine amendment. A 60% margin was required for adoption. Voters have also rejected proposals to repeal their state-level Blaine amendments in New York (1967), Michigan (1970), Oregon (1972), Washington state (1975), Alaska (1976), Massachusetts (1986), and Oklahoma (2016).\n\nOn April 1, 1974, voters in Louisiana approved a new constitution by a margin of 58 to 42 percent, which repealed the Blaine amendment that was part of that state's 1921 constitution. Louisiana's current 1974 constitution replaced it with a copy of the federal First Amendment's no-establishment and free exercise clauses, in Article 1, Sec. 8 of its Declaration of Rights; in Article 8, Sec. 13(a), it also guarantees the provision of free textbooks and \"materials of instruction\" to all children attending elementary and secondary schools in Louisiana.\n\nTwo other states, South Carolina and Utah, have also watered down their \"no-aid to religion\" constitutional clauses by removing from them the word \"indirect,\" leaving only a prohibition of direct aid or assistance to religious schools in these states.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "46406101", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46406101", "title": "Campaign to Stop Killer Robots", "text": "Campaign to Stop Killer Robots\n\nThe Campaign to Stop Killer Robots is a group of non-governmental organizations who seek to pre-emptively ban lethal autonomous weapons.\n\nFirst launched in April 2013, member organizations joining the Campaign to Stop Killer Robots have urged governments and the United Nations to issue policy to outlaw the development of \"lethal autonomous weapons systems\" (LAWS). The United Kingdom opposed such campaigns, with the Foreign Office declaring that \"international humanitarian law already provides sufficient regulation for this area\".\n\nIn July 2015, over 1,000 experts in artificial intelligence signed a letter warning of the threat of an arms race in military artificial intelligence and calling for a ban on autonomous weapons. The letter was presented in Buenos Aires at the 24th International Joint Conference on Artificial Intelligence (IJCAI-15) and was co-signed by Stephen Hawking, Elon Musk, Steve Wozniak, Noam Chomsky, Skype co-founder Jaan Tallinn and Google DeepMind co-founder Demis Hassabis, among others.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "44368971", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44368971", "title": "Conscience: Taxes for Peace not War", "text": "Conscience: Taxes for Peace not War\n\nConscience: Taxes for Peace Not War is an advocacy group based in the United Kingdom. Conscience's primary aim is to change British tax law to allow conscientious objectors to military taxation to redirect the military portion of their taxes to a fund designed for international peacebuilding, conflict management, conflict prevention and other non-violent interventions. Quakers, Mennonites, Ba'hais, Buddhists, Jehovah’s Witnesses, Seventh Day Adventists and Haredim Jews all practice conscientious objection for reasons of faith. Many other individuals do so for reasons of conscience, some believing there is little moral difference between actually firing lethal weapons and paying someone else to do so. Conscience believes that to deny these individuals the right to redirect the military portion of their taxes is to deny them freedom of thought, conscience, and religion as enshrined in various national and international human rights laws.\n\nConscience has also campaigned around the management, transparency and utilisation of the Conflict, Stability, and Security Fund (formerly the Conflict Pool), a UK government fund which ‘seeks to reduce the impact of conflict and instability around the world’ mainly via non-military means.\n\nThis year, during the Centenary of the Military Service Act, which was the first in the world to enshrine the right to conscientious objection in law, the organisation is introducing a 'Taxes for Peace' bill to the British Parliament, which seeks to extend the 100 year old conscience clause into the tax system.\n\nConscience began as The Peace Tax Campaign in 1979. A Cornish Quaker, Stanley Keeble sought to establish the legal right of conscientious objection to military taxation, suggesting that the portion of tax that was used to fund the military should instead be used for peaceful purposes. He initially sent out a leaflet announcing the beginning of the Peace Tax Campaign, and began a campaign of letter writing, lectures and organising meetings to bring together those with similar ideas. People were actively encouraged to write to their MPs to change the law, something Conscience continues to do today. A letter to the Guardian newspaper signed by both MPs and religious leaders brought the campaign to national attention in 1981, leading to over 3,000 supporters and 50 local co-ordinators to join the campaign. In 1981 Alex Lyon MP put forward an amendment to the Finance Bill to allow those with a \"conscientious objection to paying for expenditure on defence\" to pay the military part of their taxes to the then Ministry of Overseas Development. This, though unsuccessful, was the first attempt to enable such legislation in the UK. Since then the campaign have submitted a number of Early Day Motions and 10 Minute Rule Bills.\n\nThe Peace Tax Campaign changed its name to \"Conscience: The Peace Tax Campaign\" in 1990. It campaigned for a Parliamentary Bill in 1994 \"to allow those who have a conscientious objection to the use of their taxes for military purposes to register their objection, and to divert this portion of their taxes into a non-military fund, to be used for the promotion of international understanding, study of the causes and resolution of conflict\". The bill was supported by 45 Members of Parliament.\n\nConscience also helped form Conscience and Peace Tax International (CPTI) who work with organisations from other countries to campaign for a Peace Tax. This includes the UN where it now has consultative status.\n\nConscience was one of the founders of the Peace & Security Liaison Group (PSLG) in 2004. PSLG brought together other non-governmental organisations with similar aims, think-tanks, academics, and UK government officials to discuss international peace and security and sought to allow meetings between these groups and the UK Government. PSLG aimed to deliver a more consistent approach to the formulation and implementation of policies which promote global peace and security. The PSLG roundtable meetings finished in 2010.\n\nIn 2008 Conscience was recognised for its campaigning work by the Shelia McKechnie Foundation (SMK) Conflict Resolution Award. The SMK Foundation Awards are presented to those who demonstrate commitment and effectiveness at tackling the root causes of injustice and inequality, of which conflict is one. Conscience was singled out for the award because of its work campaigning for the right of conscientious objection to be recognised in British tax law, and its promotion of peaceful methods of conflict resolution as an alternative to warfare. The award was presented by then Labour Prime Minister Gordon Brown at 10 Downing Street Other winners have included the White Ribbon Campaign, and Action on South Africa (ACTSA).\n\nConscience changed its name once again to Conscience: Taxes for Peace not War in 2009. The organisation moved towards campaigning for national security based upon soft (persuasive cultural), rather than hard (violent or economic), power. However, they still campaign for the legal right of conscientious objectors to have the part of their taxes that go on the military instead be spent on non-military aid.\n\nConscience was featured alongside Nelson Mandela, Caroline Lucas and Taha Muhammad Ali in an issue of The Spokesman, the journal of the Bertrand Russell Peace Foundation in 2014\n\nIn 2005, one of Conscience’s supporters, then Conservative Shadow Chancellor Oliver Letwin was criticised for his views. Letwin at the time was listed as a supporter on Conscience’s website along with over 75 other Members of Parliament. He received criticism from Conservative Lord Tebbit who said \"The idea that we can pick and choose where our taxes are spent is just plain silly\". Criticism also came from Labour’s then deputy election co-ordinator, Fraser Kemp who said \"For Oliver Letwin to consider something that could threaten the defence of the realm is unbelievable\".\n\nThe Conflict Pool was set up in 2001 as a way to fund conflict prevention and peacebuilding projects around the world. The fund had a budget of £300 million and is shared between the Department for International Development, the Foreign and Commonwealth Office and the Ministry of Defence. The three governmental departments bid for money from the Conflict Pool to support various projects around the world.\n\nThe Conflict Pool has received criticism, including from the Independent Commission for Aid Impact (ICAI), who published a critical report in 2012. Around the time this report was published, Conscience began campaigning around the Conflict Pool. Although the Conflict Pool is not the Peace Tax that Conscience has been campaigning for, they have said in the past that \"it is the closest such entity created by government so far\". Conscience lobbies for an increase in transparency in how the fund is being used, and to stop further militarisation in order to keep the Pool being used for non-military security projects. To this end a 2014 Early Day Motion was submitted to Parliament, which was supported by members of the Labour party, Green Party, Plaid Cymru, and the Social Democratic and Labour party. In response to the criticisms found in the ICAI report, the Conflict Pool was replaced by the Conflict Stability and Security Fund (CSSF) in April 2015, with the recommendations in the ICAI report forming the model for the new fund.\n\nThe funds available through the Conflict Pool were £180 million in 2014/15.\n\nThe British Government provided more than £1 billion in 2015-16 for the new Conflict, Stability and Security Fund (CSSF). The CSSF builds on the framework of the Conflict Pool by bringing together existing cross-departmental expertise and resources from across government. The CSSF funds a broader range of activities to help prevent conflict that affects vulnerable people in the world’s poorest countries, and tackle threats to British security and interests from instability overseas. This will include actions the UK delivers directly or through third parties to help prevent conflict and instability, and support post-conflict reconciliation.\n\nPriorities for the Fund are set by the Government’s National Security Council, to ensure a stronger cross-departmental approach that draws on the synergy of defence, diplomacy, developmental assistance, security and intelligence. It is designed to enable the British Government to tackle the root causes of conflict abroad with various national and regional programmes including, developing human rights training, strengthening local police and judiciaries, and facilitating political reconciliation and local peace processes.\n\nConscientious objectors to military taxation believe that under the UK’s current tax system people are not able to express their freedom of thought, conscience, or religion as they are forced into paying for war and preparation for war. Because modern wars are no longer fought with conscripted armies, but with highly trained professional armies using high-tech weapons, paid for with taxes, and given Conscience's roots in the conscientious objection movement, the organisation believes that individuals are effectively conscripted into warfare through their tax money being used for military activity. Conscience campaigns for an update in UK law, so that people with a conscientious objection to war can have the part of their income taxes currently spent on military activity – approximately 6% – spent on peacebuilding and conflict prevention instead. \n\nConscience has campaigned for decades to build a Parliamentary coalition to support a 'Taxes for Peace Bill’ that would enable income tax payers to indicate their conscientious objection to military taxation and have that portion of their taxes currently spent on financing the Ministry of Defence redirected towards non-military forms of security. On 2 March 2016, a century to the day after the introduction of the Military Service Act, Conscience launched the Taxes for Peace Bill in the British Parliament. At the launch its sponsor Ruth Cadbury MP, speaking about the Trident nuclear weapons the UK currently operates, described how a weapon that:\n\n\"'... is specifically designed to end human life on a massive scale and destabilise our fragile environment has no place in any country which values its humanity. It’s a waste of our labourers’ talent, who should be building the next generation of homes, and a waste of the ingenuity of our engineers who should be building the next generation of renewable energy production.\"'\n\nThe Taxes for Peace Bill was put forward for parliamentary debate as a 10 Minute Rule Bill by Ruth Cadbury MP on 19 July 2016 where it received unanimous support. It was scheduled for a second reading on 12 December 2016 but this has been deferred to 24 March 2017.\n\nThe European Convention on Human Rights, the United Nations Declaration of Human Rights and the British Human Rights Act all enshrine the right to 'freedom of thought, conscience and religion' in law, therefore the approval of the Taxes for Peace Bill would bring British tax law in line with various national and international laws on individual liberty; given that the right to conscientious objection is enshrined in the Military Service Act of 1916, the Taxes for Peace Bill, if approved by parliament, would bring the rights of conscientious objectors in line with how wars are fought in the twenty-first century.\n\nThe only option for conscientious objectors to completely avoid paying for war at present is to either completely or partially withhold income tax, which risks prosecution and prison. As this system benefits no-one, least of all the taxpayer, Conscience will continue to campaign tirelessly for the right to conscientious objection to military taxation to be enshrined in law.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "9491757", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9491757", "title": "Creative financing", "text": "Creative financing\n\nIn real estate, creative financing is non-traditional or uncommon means of buying land or property. The goal of creative financing is generally to purchase, or finance a property, with the buyer/investor using as little of his own money as possible, otherwise known as leveraging, OPM (Other People's Money). Using these techniques an investor may be able to purchase multiple properties using little, or none, of his \"own money\".\n\nHard money loans (abbreviated as HML) are similar to private mortgages except that they are made through a hard money lender. A hard money lender may get his financing either from his own contacts with private lenders, or financial institutions with whom he has established his own lines of credit.\n\nHard money loans are made to real estate investors for the purpose of investing in and rehabbing real estate. Rates are a little higher than borrowing directly from a private lender, as the hard money lender may also be collecting yield spread. The hard money lender will also charge points of 3% to 6% or more. These points are often paid up front, but a few lenders may roll these into the loan.\n\nHard money loans are high-interest mortgages available from private investors. Desperate borrowers with poor credit scores, bankruptcies, no verifible income, or too much debt often take out hard money loans when they are unable to qualify for traditional mortgages. Hard money becomes a last resort when borrowers cannot meet the lending standards set by banks or government sponsored enterprises such as Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac.\n\nA private mortgage is a loan secured by real estate that is made by a private lender, instead of a traditional lender, financial institution, or government institution. These loans are most commonly short term and last anywhere from 6 months to three years. These are asset based loans made for the purchase and rehabilitation of real estate. Because the loans are asset based, the decision to loan is based on the criteria of the property and not usually the qualifications, or credit of the borrower.\n\nInterest rates on these loans are considerably higher than traditional loans and may range from 12% to 18%, with points sometimes being required as well. Loans are made on an LTV (loan to value) of 65% to 70%, to preserve sufficient equity in the property for the private lender in the event of default.\n\nA Simultaneous closing allows a home seller to offer owner financing on a property without having to hold any mortgage. On closing day, the property title is transferred to the buyer and the newly created (owner-financed) mortgage is sold to a note investor for cash, simultaneously.\n\nA subject-to transaction is a creative finance technique where a buyer is able to take title to property without obtaining a loan in the traditional manner. The transaction usually involves the seller of the property leaving his or her existing financing in place. This process is similar to assuming a loan, but differs because it usually takes place without the consent of the original lending institution and violates the terms of the loan. This technique is useful because it affords the buyer the ability to obtain financing without the need for transaction costs and does not tie up capital to obtain a new loan. The technique also allows the buyer to purchase property quickly without going through the arduous loan origination process.\n\nA land trust is an agreement whereby one party (the trustee) agrees to hold ownership of a piece of real property for the benefit of another party (the beneficiary). Land trusts are used by nonprofit organizations to hold conservation easements, by corporations and investment groups to compile large tracts of land, and by individuals to keep their real estate ownership private, avoid probate and provide several other benefits.\n\nIn the application of creative financing, a land trust can be used to take control of a property while keeping the name of the owner private. While this does not prevent the lending institution from invoking the due on sale clause, it will make it harder for the lending institution to detect that the property has been sold using creative financing.\n\nIn a short sale, the seller is often several payments behind and may even be close to foreclosure, the seller can also show significant hardships that have led them to being unable to continue making payments on this property. The seller will give the short sale investor a contract to purchase the property, a deed that will probably be placed in escrow, power of attorney and a number of other documents that will give them full control of the property. The investor will then present a case to the bank holding the mortgage, that the seller is no longer able to make payments, is having to relinquish control of the property and that the loan on the property must be reduced in order for the investor to purchase the property.\n\nThe term \"short sale\" is a misnomer because it has nothing to do with shorting anything in the financial sense. These transactions can also take a significant amount of time so it is not called a \"short sale\" for that reason either. However, the process is shorter than the traditional process of going through foreclosure and sale by auction, which is still likely to take much longer.\n\nThis is a method to sell your house quickly, because effectively you pass over control of your property to the short sale investor immediately upon signing of the documents. From that time on, it is up to the investor to complete the transaction. Should a bank refuse to accept the investor's offer on a short sale, there is no guarantee that the house will not go to foreclosure anyway, but this does provide the seller a \"possibility to avoid foreclosure\", when all else has failed.\n\nThis technique may also be used to stop foreclosure long enough to allow another purchase, or something else to be done with the property.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1537523", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1537523", "title": "Enemy combatant", "text": "Enemy combatant\n\nAn enemy combatant is a person who, either lawfully or unlawfully, directly engages in hostilities for an enemy state or non-state actor in an armed conflict. Prior to 2008, the definition was: \"Any person in an armed conflict who could be properly detained under the laws and customs of war.\" In the case of a civil war or an insurrection the term \"enemy state\" may be replaced by the more general term \"Party to the conflict\" (as described in the 1949 Geneva Conventions ).\n\nAfter the September 11 attacks, the term \"enemy combatant\" was used by the George W. Bush administration to include an alleged member of al-Qaeda or the Taliban being held in detention by the U.S. government as part of the war on terror. In this sense, \"enemy combatant\" actually refers to persons the United States regards as unlawful combatants, a category of persons who do not qualify for prisoner-of-war status under the Geneva Conventions. However, unlike unlawful combatants who qualify for some protections under the Fourth Geneva Convention, enemy combatants, under the Bush administration, were not covered by the Geneva Convention. Thus, the term \"enemy combatant\" has to be read in context to determine whether it means any combatant belonging to an enemy state or non-state actor, whether lawful or unlawful, or if it means an alleged member of al Qaeda or of the Taliban being detained as an unlawful combatant by the United States.\n\nIn the United States on March 13, 2009, the Obama administration announced its abandonment of the Bush administration's use of the term \"enemy combatant\".\n\nIn the 1942 Supreme Court of the United States ruling Ex Parte Quirin, the Court uses the terms with their historical meanings to distinguish between unlawful combatants and lawful combatants:\n\n\"Johnson v. Eisentrager\" (1950) reaffirmed the idea that the Constitution does not apply to enemy combatants, and that U.S. courts lack jurisdiction over them.. \n\nIn the wake of the September 11, 2001 attacks the United States Congress passed a resolution known as the Authorization for Use of Military Force Against Terrorists (AUMF) on September 14, 2001, wherein the Congress invoked the War Powers Resolution. Using this authorization granted to him by Congress, on November 13, 2001, President George W. Bush issued a Presidential Military Order: \"Detention, Treatment, and Trial of Certain Non-Citizens in the War Against Terrorism\". The administration chose to call those who it detained under the Presidential Military Orders \"enemy combatants\". The Bush administration began using the term in March 2002. William Lietzau, a legal advisor in the Bush administration first proposed using the term. According to Lietzau, America was detaining people not because they were criminals, but because they were the enemy. While the term was not drawn from the Quirin case, the administration looked to Quirin as validation of the term. Since then, the administration has formalized its usage of the term by using it specifically for detained alleged members and supporters of al-Qaida or the Taliban. For example,\n\nThis lead has been followed by other parts of the Government and some section of the American news media. The result of this new usage means that the term \"enemy combatant\" has to be read in the context of the article in which it appears as to whether it means a member of the armed forces of an enemy state, or if it means an alleged member of \"al Qaida\" held prisoner by the United States.\n\nFollowing the Supreme Court's ruling of lexi Hamdan v. Rumsfeld the United States Congress passed the Military Commissions Act of 2006 which contained definitions for lawful and unlawful enemy combatants.\nThe Military Commissions Act mandated that Guantanamo captives were no longer entitled to access the US civil justice system, so all outstanding habeas corpus petitions were stayed.\n\nOn June 12, 2008, the United States Supreme Court ruled, in \"Boumediene v. Bush\", that the Military Commissions Act could not remove the right for Guantanamo captives to access the US Federal Court system. And all previous Guantanamo captives' habeas petitions were eligible to be re-instated.\nThe judges considering the captives' habeas petitions would be considering whether the evidence used to compile the allegations that the detainees were enemy combatants justified a classification of \"enemy combatant\".\n\nOn February 20, 2009, the administration of President Barack Obama sided with the Bush Administration's interpretation of law when they argued to bar access to civil courts sought by enemy combatants held at the Bagram Airfield in Afghanistan.\n\nDuring a hearing on October 23, 2008, US District Court Judge Richard J. Leon commented on the ambiguity of the term \"enemy combatant\".\nFarah Stockman, writing in the \"Boston Globe\", quoted Leon's remarks characterizing him as having \"lashed out\" at Congress and the Supreme Court for leaving the term undefined:\n\nOn October 27, 2008, Leon ruled that the definition of \"enemy combatant\" he would use was that set forth in the 2004 rules for Combatant Status Review Tribunals.\n\nDefense attorneys for Lakhdar Boumediene and his fellow Bosnians of Algerian descent were pleased with the definition because the DoD had long since dropped the allegation that they had plotted to attack the US Embassy in Sarajevo, and they felt that none of the remaining allegations met Leon's definition.\n\nOn March 13, 2009, United States Attorney General Eric Holder issued a statement that the United States had abandoned the Bush administration term \"enemy combatant\".\nThe statement said, \"As we work toward developing a new policy to govern detainees, it is essential that we operate in a manner that strengthens our national security, is consistent with our values, and is governed by law.\" However, various human rights groups noted it as primarily a symbolic act. The United States continues to hold detainees at the Guantanamo Bay detention camp.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "397920", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=397920", "title": "Expulsion of the Acadians", "text": "Expulsion of the Acadians\n\nThe Expulsion of the Acadians, also known as the Great Upheaval, the Great Expulsion, the Great Deportation and Le Grand Dérangement, was the forced removal by the British of the Acadian people from the present day Canadian Maritime provinces of Nova Scotia, New Brunswick, and Prince Edward Island — parts of an area also known as \"Acadia\". The Expulsion (1755–1764) occurred during the French and Indian War (the North American theatre of the Seven Years' War) and was part of the British military campaign against New France. The British first deported Acadians to the Thirteen Colonies, and after 1758 transported additional Acadians to Britain and France. In all, of the 14,100 Acadians in the region, approximately 11,500 Acadians were deported (a census of 1764 indicates that 2,600 Acadians remained in the colony, presumably having eluded capture).\n\nDuring the War of the Spanish Succession, the British captured Port Royal, the capital of the colony, in a siege. The 1713 Treaty of Utrecht, which concluded the conflict, ceded the colony to Great Britain while allowing the Acadians to keep their lands. Over the next forty-five years, however, the Acadians refused to sign an unconditional oath of allegiance to Britain. During the same period, some also participated in various military operations against the British, and maintained supply lines to the French fortresses of Louisbourg and Fort Beauséjour. As a result, the British sought to eliminate any future military threat posed by the Acadians and to permanently cut the supply lines they provided to Louisbourg by removing them from the area.\n\nWithout making distinctions between the Acadians who had been neutral and those who had resisted the occupation of Acadia, the British governor Charles Lawrence and the Nova Scotia Council ordered them to be expelled. In the first wave of the expulsion, Acadians were deported to other British North American colonies. During the second wave, they were deported to Britain and France, and from there a significant number migrated to Spanish Louisiana. Acadians fled initially to Francophone colonies such as Canada, the uncolonized northern part of Acadia, Isle Saint-Jean (present-day Prince Edward Island) and Isle Royale (present-day Cape Breton Island). During the second wave of the expulsion, these Acadians were either imprisoned or deported.\n\nAlong with the British achieving their military goals of defeating Louisbourg and weakening the Mi'kmaq and Acadian militias, the result of the Expulsion was the devastation of both a primarily civilian population and the economy of the region. Thousands of Acadians died in the expulsions, mainly from diseases and drowning when ships were lost. On July 11, 1764, the British government passed an order-in-council to permit Acadians to legally return to British territories, provided that they take an unqualified oath of allegiance. The American poet Henry Wadsworth Longfellow memorialized the historic event in his poem about the plight of the fictional character \"Evangeline\", which was popular and made the expulsion well known.\n\nAfter the British officially gained control of Acadia in 1713, the Acadians refused to sign an unconditional oath of loyalty to become British subjects. Instead, they negotiated a conditional oath that promised neutrality. Some Acadians remained neutral and refused the unconditional oath. The difficulty was partly religious, as the British monarch was the head of the Protestant Church of England and the Acadians were Roman Catholic. They also worried that signing the oath might commit male Acadians to fight against France during wartime, and that it would be perceived by their Mi'kmaq neighbours as an acknowledgement of the British claim to Acadia, putting Acadian villages at risk of attack from Mi'kmaq.\n\nOther Acadians refused to sign an unconditional oath because they were anti-British. Various historians have observed that some Acadians were labelled \"neutral\" when they were not. By the time of the Expulsion of the Acadians, there was already a long history of political and military resistance by Acadians and the Wabanaki Confederacy to the British occupation of Acadia. The Mi'kmaq and the Acadians were allies through their Catholicism and numerous inter-marriages. While the Acadians were the largest population, the Wabanaki Confederacy, particularly the Mi'kmaq, held the military strength in Acadia even after the British conquest. They resisted the British occupation and were joined on numerous occasions by Acadians. These efforts were often supported and led by French priests in the region. The Wabanaki Confederacy and Acadians fought against the British Empire in six wars, including the French and Indian Wars, Father Rale's War and Father Le Loutre's War, over a period of seventy-five years.\n\nIn 1753, French troops from Canada marched south and seized and fortified the Ohio Valley. Britain protested the invasion and claimed Ohio for itself. On May 28, 1754, the war began with the Battle of Jumonville Glen. French Officer Ensign de Jumonville and a third of his escort were killed by a British patrol led by George Washington. In retaliation the French and the Indians defeated the British at Fort Necessity. Washington lost a third of his force and surrendered. Major General Edward Braddock's troops were defeated in the Battle of the Monongahela, and William Johnson's troops stopped the French advance at Lake George.\n\nIn Acadia, the primary British objective was to defeat the French fortifications at Beauséjour and Louisbourg and to prevent future attacks from the Wabanaki Confederacy, French and Acadians on the northern New England border. (There was a long history of these attacks from Acadia – see the Northeast Coast Campaigns 1688, 1703, 1723, 1724, 1745, 1746, 1747.) The British saw the Acadians' allegiance to the French and the Wabanaki Confederacy as a military threat. Father Le Loutre's War had created the conditions for total war; British civilians had not been spared and, as Governor Charles Lawrence and the Nova Scotia Council saw it, Acadian civilians had provided intelligence, sanctuary, and logistical support while others had fought against the British. During Le Loutre's war, to protect the British settlers from attacks along the former border of New England and Acadia, the Kennebec River, the British built Fort Halifax (Winslow), Fort Shirley (Dresden, formerly Frankfurt) and Fort Western (Augusta).\n\nAfter the British capture of Beauséjour, the plan to capture Louisbourg included cutting trade to the Fortress in order to weaken the Fortress and, in turn, weaken the French ability to supply the Mi'kmaq in their warfare against the British. According to historian Stephen Patterson, more than any other single factor – including the massive assault that eventually forced the surrender of Louisbourg – the supply problem brought an end to French power in the region. Lawrence realized he could reduce the military threat and weaken Fortress Louisbourg by deporting the Acadians, thus cutting off supplies to the fort. During the expulsion, French Officer Charles Deschamps de Boishébert led the Mi'kmaq and the Acadians in a guerrilla war against the British. According to Louisbourg account books, by late 1756 the French had regularly dispensed supplies to 700 natives. From 1756 to the fall of Louisbourg in 1758, the French made regular payments to Chief Jean-Baptiste Cope and other natives for British scalps.\n\nThe British deportation campaigns began in August 1755. Throughout the expulsion, Acadians and the Wabanaki Confederacy continued a guerrilla war against the British in response to British aggression which had been continuous since 1744 (see King George's War and Father Le Loutre's War).\n\nThe first wave of the expulsion began on August 10, 1755, with the Bay of Fundy Campaign during the French and Indian War. The British ordered the expulsion of the Acadians after the Battle of Beausejour (1755). The campaign started at Chignecto and then quickly moved to Grand-Pré, Piziquid (Falmouth/Windsor, Nova Scotia) and finally Annapolis Royal.\n\nOn November 17, 1755, George Scott took 700 troops, attacked twenty houses at Memramcook, arrested the remaining Acadians and killed two hundred head of livestock to deprive the French of supplies. Acadians tried to escape the expulsion by retreating to the St. John and Petitcodiac rivers, and the Miramichi in New Brunswick. The British cleared the Acadians from these areas in the later campaigns of Petitcodiac River, Saint John River, and the Gulf of St. Lawrence in 1758.\n\nThe Acadians and Mi'kmaq resisted in the Chignecto region and were victorious in the Battle of Petitcodiac (1755). In the spring of 1756, a wood-gathering party from Fort Monckton (former Fort Gaspareaux) was ambushed and nine were scalped. In April 1757, the same band of Acadian and Mi'kmaq partisans raided Fort Edward and Fort Cumberland near present-day Jolicure, New Brunswick, killing and scalping two men and taking two prisoners. July 20, 1757, Mi'kmaq killed 23 and captured two of Gorham's rangers outside Fort Cumberland. In March 1758, forty Acadians and Mi'kmaq attacked a schooner at Fort Cumberland and killed its master and two sailors. In the winter of 1759, the Mi'kmaq ambushed five British soldiers on patrol while they were crossing a bridge near Fort Cumberland. They were ritually scalped and their bodies mutilated as was common in frontier warfare. During the night of April 4, 1759, a force of Acadians and French in canoes captured the transport. At dawn they attacked the ship Moncton and chased it for five hours down the Bay of Fundy. Although the Moncton escaped, one of its crew was killed and two were wounded.\n\nIn September 1756, a group of 100 Acadians ambushed a party of thirteen soldiers who were working outside Fort Edward at Piziquid. Seven were taken prisoner and six escaped back to the fort. In April 1757, a band of Acadian and Mi'kmaq partisans raided a warehouse near Fort Edward, killed thirteen British soldiers, took what provisions they could carry and set fire to the building. Days later, the same partisans raided Fort Cumberland. By November 1756, French Officer Lotbiniere wrote about the difficulty of recapturing Fort Beausejour: \"The English have deprived us of a great advantage by removing the French families that were settled there on their different plantations; thus we would have to make new settlements.\"\n\nThe Acadians and Mi'kmaq fought in the Annapolis region. They were victorious in the Battle of Bloody Creek (1757). Acadians being deported from Annapolis Royal on the ship \"Pembroke\" rebelled against the British crew, took over the ship and sailed to land. In December 1757, while cutting firewood near Fort Anne, John Weatherspoon was captured by Natives—presumably Mi'kmaq— and was carried away to the mouth of the Miramichi River, from where he was sold or traded to the French, taken to Quebec and was held until late in 1759 and the Battle of the Plains of Abraham, when General Wolfe's forces prevailed.\nApproximately 55 Acadians, who escaped the initial deportation at Annapolis Royal, are reported to have made their way to the Cape Sable region—which included south western Nova Scotia—from where they participated in numerous raids on Lunenburg, Nova Scotia. The Acadians and Mi'kmaq raided the Lunenburg settlement nine times over a three-year period during the war. Boishebert ordered the first Raid on Lunenburg (1756). In 1757, the second raid on Lunenburg occurred, in which six people from the Brisson family were killed. The following year, March 1758, there was a raid on the Lunenburg Peninsula at the Northwest Range (present-day Blockhouse, Nova Scotia) when five people from the Ochs and Roder families were killed. By the end of May 1758, most of those on the Lunenburg Peninsula had abandoned their farms and retreated to the protection of the fortifications around the town of Lunenburg, losing the season for sowing their grain.\n\nFor those who did not leave their farms, the number of raids intensified. During the summer of 1758, there were four raids on the Lunenburg Peninsula. On July 13, 1758, one person on the LaHave River at Dayspring was killed and another seriously wounded by a member of the Labrador family. The next raid happened at Mahone Bay, Nova Scotia on August 24, 1758, when eight Mi'kmaq attacked the family homes of Lay and Brant. They killed three people in the raid, but were unsuccessful in taking their scalps, a common practice for payment from the French. Two days later, two soldiers were killed in a raid on the blockhouse at LaHave, Nova Scotia. On September 11, a child was killed in a raid on the Northwest Range. Another raid happened on March 27, 1759, in which three members of the Oxner family were killed. The last raid happened on April 20, 1759 at Lunenburg, when the Mi'kmaq killed four settlers who were members of the Trippeau and Crighton families.\n\nThe Cape Sable campaign involved the British removing Acadians from present-day Shelburne County and Yarmouth County. In April 1756, Major Jedidiah Preble and his New England troops, on their return to Boston, raided a settlement near Port La Tour and captured 72 men, women and children. In the late summer of 1758, Major Henry Fletcher led the 35th regiment and a company of Gorham's Rangers to Cape Sable. He cordoned off the cape and sent his men through it. One hundred Acadians and Father Jean Baptistee de Gray surrendered, while about 130 Acadians and seven Mi'kmaq escaped. The Acadian prisoners were taken to Georges Island in Halifax Harbour.\n\nEn route to the St. John River Campaign in September 1758, Monckton sent Major Roger Morris of the 35th Regiment, in command of two men-of-war and transport ships with 325 soldiers, to deport more Acadians. On October 28, Monckton's troops sent the women and children to Georges Island. The men were kept behind and forced to work with troops to destroy their village. On October 31, they were also sent to Halifax. In the spring of 1759, Joseph Gorham and his rangers arrived to take prisoner the remaining 151 Acadians. They reached Georges Island with them on June 29. November 1759 saw the deportation to Britain of 151 Acadians from Cape Sable who had been prisoners on George's Island since June. In July 1759 on Cape Sable, Captain Cobb arrived and was fired upon by 100 Acadians and Mi'kmaq.\n\nThe second wave of the expulsion began with the French defeat at the Siege of Louisbourg (1758). Thousands of Acadians were deported from Île Saint-Jean (Prince Edward Island) and Île Royale (Cape Breton). The Île Saint-Jean Campaign resulted in the largest percentage of deaths of the deported Acadians. The sinking of the ships \"Violet\" (with about 280 persons aboard) and \"Duke William\" (with over 360 persons aboard) marked the highest numbers of fatalities during the expulsion. By the time the second wave of the expulsion had begun, the British had discarded their policy of relocating the Acadians to the Thirteen Colonies, and had begun deporting them directly to France. In 1758, hundreds of Île Royale Acadians fled to one of Boishebert's refugee camps south of Baie des Chaleurs.\n\nThe Petitcodiac River Campaign was a series of British military operations that occurred from June to November 1758 to deport the Acadians who either lived along the river or had taken refuge there from earlier deportations. Benoni Danks and Gorham's Rangers carried out the operation. Contrary to Governor Lawrence's direction, New England Ranger Danks engaged in frontier warfare against the Acadians. On July 1, 1758, Danks began to pursue the Acadians on the Petiticodiac. They arrived at present day Moncton and Danks' Rangers ambushed about thirty Acadians who were led by Joseph Broussard (Beausoleil). The Acadians were driven into the river where three of them were killed and scalped, and the others were captured. Broussard was seriously wounded. Danks reported that the scalps were Mi'kmaq and received payment for them. Thereafter, he went down in local lore as \"one of the most reckless and brutal\" of the Rangers.\n\nColonel Robert Monckton led a force of 1,150 British soldiers to destroy the Acadian settlements along the banks of the Saint John River until they reached the largest village of Sainte-Anne des Pays-Bas (Fredericton, New Brunswick) in February 1759. Monckton was accompanied by New England Rangers led by Joseph Goreham, Captain Benoni Danks, Moses Hazen and George Scott. The British started at the bottom of the river, raiding Kennebecais and Managoueche (City of St. John), where they built Fort Frederick. Then they moved up the river and raided Grimross (Gagetown, New Brunswick), Jemseg, and finally reached Sainte-Anne des Pays-Bas.\n\nContrary to Governor Lawrence's direction, New England Ranger Lieutenant Hazen engaged in frontier warfare against the Acadians in what has become known as the \"Ste Anne's Massacre\". On February 18, 1759, Hazen and about fifteen men arrived at Sainte-Anne des Pays-Bas. The Rangers pillaged and burned the village of 147 buildings, two Mass-houses and various barns and stables. The Rangers burned a large store-house, containing a large quantity of hay, wheat, peas, oats and other foodstuffs, and killed 212 horses, about five head of cattle and a large number of hogs. They also burned the church located just west of Old Government House, Fredericton. The leader of the Acadian militia on the St. John river, Joseph Godin-Bellefontaine, refused to swear an oath despite the Rangers torturing and killing his daughter and 3 of his grandchildren in front of him. The Rangers also took six prisoners.\n\nIn the Gulf of St. Lawrence Campaign, also known as the Gaspee Expedition, British forces raided French villages along present-day New Brunswick and the Gaspé Peninsula coast of the Gulf of Saint Lawrence. Sir Charles Hardy and Brigadier-General James Wolfe commanded the naval and military forces, respectively. After the Siege of Louisbourg (1758), Wolfe and Hardy led a force of 1500 troops in nine vessels to Gaspé Bay, arriving there on September 5. From there they dispatched troops to Miramichi Bay on September 12, Grande-Rivière, Quebec and Pabos on September 13, and Mont-Louis, Quebec on September 14. Over the following weeks, Hardy took four sloops or schooners, destroyed about 200 fishing vessels, and took about 200 prisoners.\n\nThe Acadians took refuge along the Baie des Chaleurs and the Restigouche River. Boishébert had a refugee camp at Petit-Rochelle, which was probably located near present-day Pointe-à-la-Croix, Quebec. The year after the Battle of Restigouche, in late 1761, Captain Roderick Mackenzie and his force captured over 330 Acadians at Boishebert's camp.\n\nAfter the French conquered St. John's, Newfoundland in June 1762, the success galvanized both the Acadians and the natives, who gathered in large numbers at various points throughout the province and behaved in a confident and, according to the British, \"insolent fashion\". Officials were especially alarmed when natives gathered close to the two principal towns in the province, Halifax and Lunenburg, where there were also large groups of Acadians. The government organized an expulsion of 1,300 people and shipped them to Boston. The government of Massachusetts refused the Acadians permission to land and sent them back to Halifax.\n\nMi'kmaq and Acadian resistance was evident in the Halifax region. On April 2, 1756, Mi'kmaq received payment from the Governor of Quebec for 12 British scalps taken at Halifax. Acadian Pierre Gautier, son of Joseph-Nicolas Gautier, led Mi'kmaq warriors from Louisbourg on three raids against Halifax Peninsula in 1757. In each raid, Gautier took prisoners, scalps or both. Their last raid happened in September and Gautier went with four Mi'kmaq, and killed and scalped two British men at the foot of Citadel Hill. Pierre went on to participate in the Battle of Restigouche.\n\nArriving on the provincial vessel King George, four companies of Rogers Rangers (500 rangers) were at Dartmouth April 8 until May 28 awaiting the Siege of Louisbourg (1758). While there they scoured the woods to stop raids on Dartmouth.\n\nIn July 1759, Mi'kmaq and Acadians killed five British in Dartmouth, opposite McNabb's Island. By June 1757, the settlers had to be completely withdrawn from Lawrencetown (established 1754) because the number of Indian raids prevented settlers from leaving their houses. In nearby Dartmouth, in the spring of 1759, another Mi'kmaq attack was launched on Fort Clarence, located at the present day Dartmouth Refinery, in which five soldiers were killed. Before the deportation, the Acadian population was estimated at 14,000. Most were deported, but some Acadians escaped to Quebec, or hid among the Mi'kmaq or in the countryside, to avoid deportation until the situation settled down.\n\nIn present-day Maine, the Mi'kmaq and the Maliseet raided numerous New England villages. At the end of April 1755, they raided Gorham, killing two men and a family. Next they appeared in New Boston (Gray) and went through the neighbouring towns destroying the plantations. On May 13, they raided Frankfort (Dresden), where two men were killed and a house burned. The same day they raided Sheepscot (Newcastle) and took five prisoners. Two people were killed in North Yarmouth on May 29 and one taken captive. The natives shot one person at Teconnet, took prisoners at Fort Halifax and two prisoners at Fort Shirley (Dresden). They also captured two workers at the fort at New Gloucester. During this period, the Maliseet and Mi'kmaq were the only tribes of the Wabanaki Confederacy who were able to fight.\n\nOn August 13, 1758, Boishebert left Miramichi, New Brunswick with 400 soldiers, including Acadians whom he led from Port Toulouse. They marched to Fort St. George (Thomaston) and unsuccessfully laid siege to the town, and raided Munduncook (Friendship) where they wounded eight British settlers and killed others. This was Boishébert's last Acadian expedition; from there he and the Acadians went to Quebec and fought in the Battle of Quebec (1759).\n\nIn the first wave of the expulsion, most Acadian exiles were assigned to rural communities in Massachusetts, Connecticut, New York, Pennsylvania, Maryland and South Carolina. In general, they refused to stay where they were put and large numbers migrated to the colonial port cities where they gathered in isolated, impoverished French-speaking Catholic neighbourhoods, the sort of communities Britain's colonial officials tried to discourage. More worryingly for the British authorities, some Acadians threatened to migrate north to French-controlled regions, including the Saint John River, Île Royale, the coasts of the Gulf of St. Lawrence and Canada. Because the British believed their policy of sending the Acadians to the Thirteen Colonies had failed, they deported the Acadians to France during the second wave of the Expulsion.\n\nApproximately 1,000 Acadians went to the Colony of Maryland, where they lived in a section of Baltimore that became known as French Town. The Irish Catholics were reported to have shown charity to the Acadians by taking orphaned children into their homes.\n\nApproximately 2,000 Acadians disembarked at the Colony of Massachusetts. There were several families deported to the Province of Maine, a large, but sparsely populated exclave of the colony of Massachusetts. For four long winter months, William Shirley, who had ordered their deportation, had not allowed them to disembark and as a result, half died of cold and starvation aboard the ships. Children were taken away from their parents and were distributed to various families throughout Massachusetts. The government also arranged the adoption of orphaned children and provided subsidies for housing and food for a year.\n\nThe Colony of Connecticut prepared for the arrival of 700 Acadians. Like Maryland, the Connecticut legislature declared that \"[the Acadians] be made welcome, helped and settled under the most advantageous conditions, or if they have to be sent away, measures be taken for their transfer.\"\n\nThe Colony of Pennsylvania accommodated 500 Acadians. Because they arrived unexpectedly, the Acadians had to remain in port on their vessels for months. The Colony of Virginia refused to accept the Acadians on grounds that no notice was given of their arrival. They were detained at Williamsburg, where hundreds died from disease and malnutrition. They were then sent to Britain where they were held as prisoners until the Treaty of Paris in 1763.\n\nThe Acadians who had offered the most resistance to the British—particularly those who had been at Chignecto—were reported to have been sent to the southernmost colonies (the Carolinas and the Colony of Georgia), where about 1,400 Acadians settled and were \"subsidized\" and put to work on plantations.\n\nUnder the leadership of Jacques Maurice Vigneau of Baie Verte, the majority of the Acadians in Georgia received a passport from the governor Reynolds. Without such passports, travel between borders was not allowed. As soon as the Acadians bearing passports from Georgia reached the Carolinas, the colonies granted passports to the Acadians in their territories. Along with these papers, the Acadians were given two vessels. After running aground numerous times in the ships, some Acadians returned to the Bay of Fundy. Along the way, they were captured and imprisoned. Only 900 managed to return to Acadia, less than half of those who had begun the voyage. Others also tried to return home. The \"South Carolina Gazette\" reported that in February, about thirty Acadians fled the island to which they were confined and escaped their pursuers. Alexandre Broussard, brother of the famed resistance leader Joseph Broussard, dit Beausoleil, was among them. About a dozen are recorded to have returned to Acadia after an overland journey of 1,400 leagues.\n\nAfter the Siege of Louisbourg (1758), the British began to deport the Acadians directly to France rather than to the British colonies. Some Acadians deported to France never reached their destination. Almost 1,000 died when the transport ships \"Duke William\", \"Violet\" and sank in 1758 en route from Île St.-Jean to France. About 3,000 Acadian refugees eventually gathered in France's port cities and went to Nantes. Many Acadians who were sent to Britain were housed in crowded warehouses and subject to plagues due to the close conditions, while others were allowed to join communities and live normal lives. In France, 78 Acadian families were repatriated to Belle-Île-en-Mer off the western coast of Brittany after the Treaty of Paris. The most serious resettlement attempt was made by Louis XV, who offered of land in the Poitou province to 626 Acadian families each, where they lived close together in a region they called \"La Grande Ligne\" (\"The Great Road\", also known as \"the King's Highway\"). About 1,500 Acadians accepted the offer, but the land turned out to be infertile, and by the end of 1775, most of them abandoned the province.\n\nAcadians left France, under the influence of Henri Peyroux de la Coudreniere, to settle in Louisiana, which was then a colony of Spain. The British did not deport Acadians to Louisiana.\n\nLouisiana was transferred to the Spanish government in 1762. Because of the good relations between France and Spain, and their common Catholic religion, some Acadians chose to take oaths of allegiance to the Spanish government. Soon the Acadians comprised the largest ethnic group in Louisiana. They settled first in areas along the Mississippi River, then later in the Atchafalaya Basin, and in the prairie lands to the west—a region later renamed Acadiana.\n\nSome were sent to colonize places as diverse as French Guiana and the Falkland Islands under the direction of Louis Antoine de Bougainville; these latter efforts were unsuccessful. Others migrated to places like Saint-Domingue, and fled to New Orleans after the Haitian Revolution. The Louisiana population contributed to the founding of the modern Cajun population. (The French word \"Acadien\" evolved to \"Cadien\", then was anglicized as \"Cajun\".)\n\nOn July 11, 1764, the British government passed an order-in-council to permit Acadians to legally return to British territories, provided that they take an unqualified oath of allegiance. Some Acadians returned to Nova Scotia (which included present-day New Brunswick). Under the deportation orders, Acadian land tenure had been forfeited to the British crown and the returning Acadians no longer owned land. Beginning in 1760 much of their former land was distributed under grant to the New England Planters. The lack of available farmland compelled many Acadians to seek out a new livelihood as fishermen on the west coast of Nova Scotia, known as the French Shore. The British authorities scattered other Acadians in small groups along the shores of the Atlantic Ocean and the Gulf of Saint Lawrence. It was not until the 1930s, with the advent of the Acadian co-operative movements, that the Acadians became less economically disadvantaged.\n\nAccording to historian John Mack Faragher, the religious and ethnic dimensions of the Expulsion of Acadians are in addition to, and deeply connected to, the military exigencies cited as causes for the Removals. There is significant evidence in the correspondence of military and civil leaders for Anti-Catholicism. Faragher writes, \"The first session of the Nova Scotia Assembly ... passed a series of laws intended to institutionalize Acadian dispossession\" including an act titled \"An Act for the Quieting of Possessions to Protestant Grantees of land formerly occupied by the French.\" In it and two subsequent acts the Church of England was made the official religion. These acts granted certain political rights to Protestants while the new laws excluded Catholics from public office and voting and forbade Catholics from owning land in the province. It also empowered British authorities to seize all \"popish\" property (Church lands) for the crown and barred Catholic clergy from entering or residing in the province, as they wanted no repeat of Le Loutre and his type of war. In addition to other anti-Catholic measures, Faragher concludes \"These laws—passed by a popular assembly, not enacted by military fiat—laid the foundation for the migration of Protestant settlers.\"\n\nIn the 1740s William Shirley hoped to assimilate Acadians into the Protestant fold. He did so by trying to encourage (or force) Acadian women to marry English Protestants and statutes were passed requiring the offspring of such unions be sent to English schools and raised as \"English Protestants\" (quote from letter by Shirley). This was linked to larger anxieties in the realm over the loyalty of Catholics in general—as Charles Stuart's Jacobite Rebellion was a Catholic-led rebellion as was Le Loutre's rebellion in Nova Scotia. Shirley, who in part was responsible for the Removals, according to historian Geoffery Plank, \"recommended using military force to expel the most 'obnoxious' Acadians and replace them with Protestant immigrants. In time the Protestants would come to dominate their new communities.\" Shirley wanted \"peaceable [loyal] subjects\" and specifically, in his own words, \"good Protestant ones.\"\n\nFaragher compared the expulsions to contemporary ethnic cleansing. In contrast, numerous leading historians have objected to this characterization of the expulsion. Historian John Grenier asserts that Faragher overstates the religious motivation for the expulsion and obscures the fact that the British accommodated Acadians by providing Catholic priests for forty years prior to the Expulsion. Grenier writes that Faragher \"overstates his case; his focus on the \"grand dérangement\" as an early example of ethnic cleansing carries too much present-day emotional weight and in turn overshadows much of the accommodation that Acadians and Anglo-Americans reached.\" As well, the British were clearly not concerned that the Acadians were French, given they were recruiting French foreign protestants to settle the region. Further, the New Englanders of Boston were not banishing Acadians from the Atlantic region; instead, they were actually deporting them to live in the heart of New England: Boston and elsewhere in the British colonies.\n\nWhile clearly there was animosity between Catholics and Protestants during this time period, many historians point to the overwhelming evidence which suggests the motivation for the expulsion was military. The British wanted to cut off supply lines to the Mi'kmaq, Louisbourg and Quebec. They also wanted to end any military threat the Acadians posed (See Military history of the Acadians). A.J.B. Johnston wrote that the evidence for the removal of the Acadians indicates the decision makers thought the Acadians were a military threat, therefore the deportation of 1755 does not qualify as an act of ethnic cleansing. Geoffery Plank argues that the British continued the expulsion after 1758 for military reasons: present-day New Brunswick remained contested territory and the New Englanders wanted to make sure that British negotiators would be unlikely to return the region to the French as they had done after King George's War.\n\nOther historians have observed that it was not uncommon for empires during this time period to move their subjects and their populations. For Naomi E. S. Griffiths and A. J. B. Johnston the event is comparable with other deportations in history, and should not be considered ethnic cleansing. In \"From Migrant to Acadian\", Griffiths writes that \"the Acadian deportation, as a government action, was a pattern with other contemporary happenings.\" The Expulsion of the Acadians has been compared to similar military operations during the eighteenth and nineteenth centuries. The French carried out expulsions in Newfoundland in 1697 when they occupied the British portion of Newfoundland during Pierre d'Iberville's Avalon Peninsula Campaign, burning every British settlement and exiling over 500 inhabitants. A.J.B. Johnston notes that in 1767, French authorities forcibly removed nearly 800 Acadian and French inhabitants from Saint-Pierre and Miquelon, transporting them against their will to France and compares the expulsions to the fate of the United Empire Loyalists, who were expelled from the United States to present-day Canada after the American Revolution. Another deportation was the Highland Clearances in Scotland between 1762 and 1886. Another North American expulsion was the Indian Removal of the 1830s, in which the Cherokee and other Native Americans from the South-East United States were removed from their traditional homelands.\n\nFurther, other historians have noted that civilian populations are often devastated during wartime. For example, there were five wars fought along the New England and Acadia border over the 70 years prior to the expulsion (See French and Indian Wars, Father Rale's War and Father Le Loutre's War). During these wars, the French and Wabanaki Confederacy conducted numerous military campaigns killing British civilians and taking them captive. (See the Northeast Coast Campaigns 1688, 1703, 1723, 1724, 1745, 1746, 1747, 1750.)\n\nAcadian historian Maurice Basque writes that the term \"'genocide'... does not apply at all to the Grand Derangement. Acadie was not Armenia, and to compare Grand-Pré with Auschwitz and the killing fields of Cambodia is a complete and utter trivialization of the many genocidal horrors of contemporary history.\" Concerning the use of 20th century terms such as \"ethnic cleansing\" and \"genocide\" to understand the past, historian John G. Reid states, \"I'm not sure that it's the best way to understand 18th century realities... What happened in the 18th century is a process of imperial expansion that was ruthless at times, that cost lives…. But to my mind, you can't just transfer concepts between centuries.\"\n\nIn 1847, American poet Henry Wadsworth Longfellow published a long, narrative poem about the expulsion of the Acadians called \"Evangeline\", depicting the plight of the fictional character Evangeline The poem became popular and made the expulsion well known. The Evangeline Oak is a tourist attraction in Louisiana. The song \"Acadian Driftwood\", recorded in 1975 by The Band, portrays the Great Upheaval and the displacement of the Acadian people. Antonine Maillet wrote a novel, called \"Pélagie-la-Charrette\", about the aftermath of the Great Upheaval. It was awarded the Prix Goncourt in 1979. Grand-Pré Park is a National Historic Site of Canada situated in Grand-Pré, Nova Scotia, and preserved as a living monument to the expulsion. It contains a memorial church and a statue of Evangeline, the subject of Longfellow's poem. The song \"1755\" was composed by American Cajun fiddler and singer Dewey Balfa and performed on his 1987 album Souvenirs, and later covered by Steve Riley and the Mamou Playboys on their 1994 live album. According to Acadian historian Maurice Basque, the story of Evangeline continues to influence historic accounts of the deportation, emphasising neutral Acadians and de-emphasising those who resisted the British Empire. In 2018, Canadian historian and novelist A. J. B. Johnston published a YA novel entitled \"The Hat\", inspired by what happened at Grand-Pré in 1755.\n\nIn December 2003, Governor General Adrienne Clarkson, representing Queen Elizabeth II (Canada's head of state), acknowledged the expulsion but did not apologize for it. She designated July 28 as \"A Day of Commemoration of the Great Upheaval.\" This proclamation, officially the Royal Proclamation of 2003, closed one of the longest cases in the history of the British courts, initiated in 1760 when the Acadian representatives first presented their grievances of forced dispossession of land, property and livestock. December 13, the date on which the \"Duke William\" sank, is commemorated as Acadian Remembrance Day. There is a museum dedicated to Acadian history and culture, with a detailed reconstruction of the Great Uprising, in Bonaventure, Quebec.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "48934397", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48934397", "title": "Government of National Accord", "text": "Government of National Accord\n\nThe Government of National Accord () is an interim government for Libya that was formed under the terms of the Libyan Political Agreement, a United Nations-led initiative, signed on 17 December 2015. The agreement has been unanimously endorsed by the United Nations Security Council which has welcomed the formation of a Presidency Council for Libya and recognized that the Government of National Accord is the sole legitimate executive authority in Libya. On 31 December 2015, Chairman of the Libyan House of Representatives, Aguila Saleh Issa declared his support for the Libyan Political Agreement. Ever since, the General National Congress has criticized the unity government on multiple fronts as biased in favor of its rivals, the House of Representatives.\n\nThe Government of National Accord has 17 ministers and is led by Prime Minister Fayez al-Sarraj. The first meeting of the cabinet of the Government of National Accord took place on 2 January 2016 in Tunis. A full cabinet consisting of 18 ministers was announced in January 2016.\n\nThe Prime Minister of the GNA, Fayez al-Sarraj, and six other members of the Presidential Council and proposed cabinet arrived in Tripoli on 30 March 2016. The following day, it was reported that the GNA has taken control of the prime ministerial offices.\n\nSince March 2016, conflict between the two rival governments, the Libyan House of Representatives and the General National Congress (GNC), has intensified. Despite previously supporting it, the Libyan House of Representatives withdrew its recognition of the GNA by voting against it in the summer of 2016 and becoming their rival for governing the country. Despite being backed by only parts of the GNC and without formal approval from the Libyan House of Representatives, who have called for new elections to be held by February 2018, the GNA is still recognized by the United Nations as Libya’s legitimate government.\n\nSo far, the GNA has struggled to assert its authority and has been largely unsuccessful in unifying Libya as expected. The ultimate viability of the Government of National Accord is uncertain given that the country still remains greatly divided across political, tribal and ideological lines.\n\nEver since a NATO operation toppled long-time leader Muammar Gaddafi in 2011 during the Libyan Civil War, Libya has experienced a period of intense turmoil and instability. With the absence of a stable government, Libya has also become a breeding ground for armed militias and Islamist groups who have capitalized on the lawless environment to operate in and recruit fighters from the country. Immediately after Gaddafi’s death in 2011, a rebel leadership council known as the National Transitional Council took control of the country until the General National Congress was democratically elected in 2012.\n\nFollowing the 2012 creation of the GNC, several factions have expressed concern with its actions. While the majority of elected officials in the GNC were moderate or liberal, the elected president, Nouri Abusahmain, as well as a strong minority of officials represented Islamist parties, like the martyrs bloc and the Justice and Construction Party, causing unrest among liberals and exasperating political divides in Libya. Further decisions to impose exclusionary rules that prevent those who served under Gaddafi from holding office in the GNC, to impose sharia law, and to extend the mandate of the GNC another year, postponing general elections also caused dissent towards the GNC. On February 14, 2014, Khalifa Haftar called for the dissolution of the GNC, and creation of a president's council that could better organize a constitution and free elections and in May he led a militia offensive called Operation Dignity which seized control Tripoli.\n\nOn June 25, 2014, elections were held for the new Libya legislative body, the Council of Deputies or Libyan House of Representatives, even as Haftar's militia continued its campaign with attacks in Benghazi. Moderate and liberal groups became the majority of the Libyan House of Representatives, but because of low turnouts (estimated as low as 18% of the electorate), Islamist groups rejected the results. Meanwhile Islamist militias began attacks and bombings in major cities, including the assassination of Salwa Bughaighis, a women's rights activist, in Benghazi and a car bombing in al-Bayda. Islamist militias soon seized control of Misrata and created its own campaign, called Operation Libya Dawn. This led the Libyan House of Representatives to flee from Tripoli to Tobruk.\n\nThe results of these conflicts were a renewed civil war and a divided Libyan government, with anti-Islamist groups in Tripoli, Islamist groups in Misrata, and the internationally backed Libyan House of Representatives relocated to Tobruk. As this civil war continued, efforts to create a new national unity government began.\n\nEfforts to mend divisions in Libya began in early 2015. On January 15, 2015, Operation Dignity forces agreed to a ceasefire with Operation Libya Dawn, while the Tobruk government agreed to talks with the Libya Dawn backed GNC, but several key members of Libya Dawn and its GNC government did not attend the planned talks in Geneva. Throughout the first half of 2015, the United Nations facilitated talks between factions to draft a plans for a unity government that would bring an end to the civil war, but those proposals met resistance from all factions, with a fourth draft being rejected by the Libyan House of Representatives on June 9.\n\nAfter continued talks throughout the remainder of 2015, a peace agreement between the two factions was signed on December 17 in Skhirat, Morocco. The agreement created a Presidential Council and the High Council of State and established the Government of National Accord. Despite bipartisan support of the agreement, both factions also had members who did not support the deal and it was feared that well-armed militias would not comply to deal. After an endorsement by the United Nations Security Council, the GNA was almost immediately recognized by the international community as Libya’s legitimate government. Federica Mogherini, the EU foreign policy chief, called the agreement an “essential step” and said that only a unity government would be equipped to “end political divisions, defeat terrorism, and address the numerous security, humanitarian, and economic challenges the country faces.\"\n\nThe GNA held its first meeting in Tunis on January 8, 2016, had nominated ministers to all positions by February and received a vote of confidence from the Libyan House of Representatives in on March 12, 2016. On March 30, 2016, the Government of National Accord moved its Presidential Council to Tripoli despite threats from militant groups in the city. The Presidential Council is currently operating out of a naval base in the city. Support for the GNA has since continued to grow. Elders from the Tuareg and Toubou peoples have expressed support for the GNA.\n\nDespite the early deals that were made, the Tobruk-based Libyan House of Representatives voted against approving the GNA during the summer of 2016 and became their rival for governing Libya. In the early months of 2017, cooperation between the two governments broke down completely. In February, a meeting between Field Marshal Khalifa Hafter and Prime Minister Sarraj took place in Cairo, but despite Egyptian and Russian pressure the two sides were unable to come to an agreement. In March, the pro-GNA Benghazi Defense Brigades seized control of the oil facilities in the Gulf of Sidra region from the eastern parliament's Libyan National Army, which had captured them back in September 2016. The LNA launched a counterattack and the Tobruk government demanded the GNA to condemn their acts. The Libyan House of Representatives later withdrew its recognition of the GNA and called for new elections to be held by early 2018.\n\nDuring early 2017, the GNA still lacked popular support due to its weak military force and inability to control Tripoli. However, in late April and early May a meeting occurred between Prime Minister Sarraj and Field Marshal Haftar in Abu Dhabi. They met for two hours and sources suggest that their meeting was positive, with the premier later stating that they both agreed on the need for a peaceful solution. Reportedly the meeting materialized thanks to pressure on Haftar by the UAE. They also agreed to form a new Presidential Council as part of a power-sharing agreement and hold elections in March 2018.\n\nThe Government of National Accord is codified in the Libyan Political Agreement signed on 17 December 2015 at a conference in Shkirat, Morocco. This agreement has been unanimously endorsed by the United Nations Security Council which has recognized that the Government of National Accord is the sole legitimate government of Libya. The Libyan Political agreement gives executive authority to the GNA, while leaving legislative authority to the House of Representatives as it was following the June 2014 elections. It also establishes the High Council of State, a consultative body independent of the GNA.\n\nAccording to the original document, the Libyan Political Agreement is founded on four main principles: “Ensuring the democratic rights of the Libyan people, the need for a consensual government based on the principle of the separation of powers, oversight and balance between them, as well as the need to empower state institutions like the Government of National Accord so that they can address the serious challenges ahead, respect for the Libyan judiciary and its independence.\"\n\nDuring the same time that the Libyan Political Agreement was signed, the two rival parliaments, the Libyan House of Representatives and the GNC, signed a Declaration of Principles between them in Tunis aimed at bringing about a national unity government. Despite occurring parallel to the Libyan Political Agreement, this new deal was separate to the U.N.-led agreement, a peace-process that has struggled to prove acceptable to either the GNC or the Libyan House of Representatives. This new declaration involved establishing a 10-person committee, 5 from each side, that together would select an interim Prime Minister and two Deputies with full legislative elections taking place within two years.\n\nGiven that the GNC has refused to put forward candidates for a unity government under the U.N. process, this new deal was seen as a reaction and domestic response to the pressure exerted from the international community insisting that the U.N.-backed Government of National Accord was the only way forward in Libya. Many Libyans saw the U.N. process as a top-down agreement forced on them. With no signs of the U.N. incorporating this new deal into its peace process, U.N. special envoy to Libya, Martin Kobler, said the agreement was a good first step and insisted that the U.N.-backed Libyan Political Agreement represents the only means of uniting the country and requires a “rapid endorsement” by both sides.\n\nDemocratically elected in 2014, the Libyan House of Representatives was Libya’s internationally recognized government prior to the creation of the GNA. Backed by the United Arab Emirates, Egypt and Russia, the House of Representatives is also supported by the Libyan National Army and its leader, Field Marshal Khalifa Haftar, who is behind the government’s refusal to approve of the GNA.\n\nHaftar has been steadily gaining power in Libya since the launch of his successful military campaign against jihadist and Islamist groups in Libya in 2014 and his successful seizure of four vital oil export terminals from the Petroleum Facilities Guard in Eastern Libya which have increased the country’s oil production to its highest level in years.\n\nUnlike his opponents in the GNA who have been steadily losing legitimacy, Haftar maintains a large and growing influence over the country, especially in the East. With the House of Representatives having withdrawn its recognition of the GNA, some security experts argue that if any potential changes to the Libyan Political Agreement do not meet Haftar's demands, it is unlikely that the unification process will succeed. Given Haftar's growing legitimacy in the country, the international community has indeed recognized that his participation is essential in establishing a viable government in Libya with British Foreign Secretary Boris Johnson having urged for his inclusion in any government in the future.\n\nWhen elected in 2012 to replace the National Transitional Council, the GNC was made up of a majority of moderate officials with only the President, Nouri Abusahmain, and a few other officials representing Islamist parties. Many factions of the GNC later broke away from the group as they grew concerned with the government’s actions especially as violence, caused by Islamist militias supported by leaders of the group, began to escalate. Currently, the GNC is backed by hardline Islamist groups and militias in Tripoli and Misrata, with little foreign support.\n\nLeader of the Libyan National Army, Haftar's refusal to negotiate with GNA Prime Minister al-Sarraj in February 2017 has disappointed the Egyptian government, who has supported his role of governing Libya. President Abdel Fattah al-Sisi has been strongly pushing for a settlement between the Libyan House of Representatives and the GNA in order to end the civil war and contain the spread of the Islamist and jihadist movement it has created. Egypt has expressed concerns that a continuation of the conflict will give Islamic groups in Libya, such as the Muslim Brotherhood, greater influence in the country. Apart from supplying Tobruk’s government with significant arms deals, for Egypt, having the Eastern part of Libya under the role of a leader friendly to the country, in this case Haftar, would create a buffer zone with ISIS and any opposition to Sisi's government in Cairo.\n\nDespite being opposed to the move by NATO to topple ex-leader Muammar Gaddafi, Russia did not block the UN resolution calling for an intervention in Libya in 2011. Since then, Russia has frequently used Libya as an example of Western failures in the Middle East. The Russian Government has affirmed that it intends to play a role in restoring a strong regime in the country. Days ahead of al-Sarraj's visit to Russia in March 2017, Putin's spokesman said, “Russia is interested in Libya finally becoming a working state after this barbaric intervention that was conducted from outside, that led to catastrophic consequences from the point of view of the Libyan state and the future of the Libyan people. That is why we are interested in the swift development of a durable power in Libya that can begin the process of restoring and recreating the state.” Russia has also recently met with al-Sarraj's rival factions where earlier last year, Haftar also paid a visit to Russia.\n\nThe United States, together with the European Union was one of the first parties to recognize and welcome the GNA as Libya's new unity government. At the December 24, 2015 United Nations Security Council meeting, Ambassador Samantha Power said that \"The United States urges all Libyans to unite behind the Libyan Political Agreement, and to take advantage of the opportunity presented by the formation of the GNA by working together toward peace, stability, and the rule of law.” The U.S. also issued a joint statement with the EU that described the new body as the “only legitimate government in Libya”. This came before an admission by ex-U.S. President Barack Obama in April 2016 that the “worst mistake” of his presidency was the failure to prepare for an aftermath of Gaddafi’s overthrow.\n\nSince 2015, the U.S. has carried out three air strikes in Libya in what it called a sustained air campaign that would help local anti-Islamic State forces fight the group. While there were plans in early 2016 to send 6,000 troops from a number of NATO countries, such as France and the United Kingdom, to train these local troops in fighting IS-affiliated groups, the GNA was reluctant to allow such a presence. In December 2016, U.S. Special Envoy to Libya, Jonathan Winer, told Congress that the United States remained at the forefront of efforts to “broaden support” for the GNA.\n\nUnlike other regional powers, Algeria and Tunisia have not built a network of proxies in Libya but have instead been vocal supporters of reconciliation and a political solution while closely coordinating with each other to contain the spillover from the Islamic State's presence in Libya.\n\nIn October 2014, the Islamic Youth Shura Council (IYSC) declared that Derna, a small town on the northeastern coast and some 720 km (450 miles) from Tripoli, had become the first Libyan town to join the global caliphate. In late 2014, Abu Bakr al-Baghdadi recognised the presence of ISIS in Libya, declaring three wilayats: Barqa (eastern Libya), with Derna as its base; Tarablus (Tripoli), with Sirte as its base; and Fezzan (southwestern Libya).\n\nAs another rival to the GNA and made up of foreign fighters, defectors from local jihadi groups and local returnees from Syria, the Islamic State was driven from its first headquarters in Derna in 2015 by anti-Haftar forces and began establishing a new base in Sirte. Sirte became the Islamic State's stronghold in Libya until May 2016 when a coalition of Misrata-dominated forces loyal to the GNA known as Bunyan al-Marsous (BAM) declared war on the Islamic State there. On April 2, 2016, these Misrata-based militias had declared their loyalty to the GNA in order to legitimize themselves as a military force fighting for the country’s internationally backed government. The BAM operation in May was accompanied by over 400 U.S. air strikes over a six-month period. On December 6, 2016, the Libyan National Army aligned with the GNA to capture Sirte with victory being declared that month. While the Islamic State lost Sirte, it is believed that many of its fighters remain in Libya operating sleeper cells in Tripoli and other cities and towns across the country.\n\nU.S. Special Envoy to Libya, Jonathan Winer, warned the United States House Committee on Foreign Affairs on November 30, 2016 that the Islamic State could cause more trouble in Libya. “If Libyans choose to fight each other instead of uniting, they risk increasing the probability that ISIL and other violent extremists in its mould will be back,\" he said.\n\nThe Government of National Accord under the Libyan Political Agreement comprises a Cabinet of Ministers and a Presidential Council. The Presidential Council, made up of nine members and chaired by the Prime Minister, acts collectively as head of state and supreme commander of the armed forces, appointing thus the country’s military leadership. According to the agreement, the Presidential Council presides over the Cabinet of Ministers, also based in Tripoli, and also appoints its members.\n\nThe Cabinet of the Government of National Accord, which acts as the government's executive branch, has 17 ministers and is led by Prime Minister Fayez al-Sarraj and two Deputy Prime Ministers, Ahmed Maiteeq and Musa Al-Koni. Ministers in the cabinet need to be unanimously approved by the Prime Minister and his deputies and ministers can likewise only be removed with a unanimous decision of the Prime Minister and his deputies.\n\nThe Government of National Accord is granted a one year term from the date the Libyan House of Representatives grants it a vote of confidence, but this term will be automatically extended an additional year if a new constitution is not completed and implemented during the term. The GNA can also be dissolved by a vote of no confidence from the Libyan House of Representatives , or by the death, vacancy, or resignation of the Prime Minister.\n\nThe following ministers were proposed on January 2016:\n\nPrime Minister Fayez al-Sarraj was born into a prominent local family, whose father, Mustafa Sarraj was also involved in politics and described by Al-Jazeera as \"one of the founders of the modern state of Libya after its independence from Italy\". After Gaddafi’s fall in 2011, Fayez al-Sarraj became a member of the National Dialogue Commission, which worked to establish national consensus and unity in Libya. His nomination as Prime Minister was seen as a compromise between the rival parties as he is not affiliated to any party involved in the power struggle.\n\nDeputy Prime Minister, Ahmed Maiteeq, served as Prime Minister for a short time and in the GNA represents the city of Misrata, which is the biggest political and military backer of the GNA. Misrata’s militias were crucial in Gaddafi’s downfall and have taken the lead in the fight against ISIS in Sirte. Misrata's militias and the Libyan National Army are the two most relevant military forces in the country.\n\nThe Central Bank of Libya and the National Oil Corporation (NOC), also based in Tripoli, have both pledged loyalty to the Presidential Council of the GNA even though the NOC has had good working relations with Haftar and his Libyan National Army after it seized eastern oil ports from Islamists. The government in Tobruk has also established its own Central Bank and its own Oil Corporation even though they are not recognized internationally.\n\nOn December 6, 2016, the UN special envoy to Libya Martin Kobler hinted before the United Nations Security Council meeting at the possibility of renegotiating the Libyan Political Agreement, which he said is “not set in stone”. He later said that the agreement “stands firm, but stuck”.\n\nWestern powers have become increasingly concerned that if infighting between the different political factions continues and the GNA is not recognized soon by the GNC, further turmoil will evolve and allow the Islamic State and other Islamist groups to gain further territory in the country.\n\nA report published by the International Crisis Group in November 2016 has said that the Libyan Political Agreement has failed to calm the turbulence and warned that the country may descend into a \"free-fall\" if the country's peace process is not \"reset\". “The accord’s roadmap, the idea that a caretaker government accommodating the two parliaments and their allies could establish a new political order and reintegrate militias, can no longer be implemented without change,\" said the report.\n\nSince its inception, the GNA has also been criticized domestically for focusing little on national reconciliation and improving the lives of the population and instead focusing on maintaining broad international support. Critics pushing for a negotiation of the Libyan Political Agreement are calling for changes in the setup of the GNA itself and the future role of Haftar in the government. Haftar's role in the new government remains one of the most contentious points in the Agreement. Haftar enjoys wide public support for successfully combating Islamists in eastern Libya, liberating four key oil ports from Islamist control and bringing relative security to Benghazi. Haftar supporters argue that dismissing him from any future government would not bring peace to the country while bringing him into the government can help the GNA seek a compromise with the Libyan House of Representatives that backs him.\n\nSince its December 2015 inception, the GNA has made little progress in unifying the country and has proved ineffective in areas such as national security, the economy, and most importantly, the overall governance of Libya.\n\nA number of media outlets have expressed doubt that the GNA will ever be able to assert itself as a true authority figure and garner support from its citizens, as various militias continue to hold vast control in Libya.\n\nMartin Kobler, Head of the United Nations Support Mission in Libya (UNSMIL) and one of the organizers of the GNA, publicly challenged the government via Twitter just months after its installment. In June 2016, Kobler tweeted \"Worried about the continued power cuts in large parts of tripoli. Urge #Gna to tackle energy supply for the population.\" In February 2017, Kobler acknowledged the GNA’s shortcomings and said there was a growing consensus to reconfigure the Presidential Council.\n\nIn November 2016, writing in \"Foreign Affairs\", Emadeddin Zahri Muntasser of the Libyan American Public Affairs Council and lobbyist for the General National Congress, said \"the GNA’s days are numbered. Very soon, Libyans might have to find yet another path.\"\n\nIn a November 2016 piece titled \"A Western-backed deal to salvage Libya is falling apart\", \"The Economist\" wrote, \"The latest peace accord has merely reconfigured the conflict, not solved it.\" Specifically, it noted that:\"The GNA, for its part, has done little to win over the public. Services are sporadic at best, while the economy is teetering […] Prices have soared. The government is months behind on paying salaries.\"Additionally, the GNA received a no confidence vote from the House of Representatives based in Tobruk. Out of 101 total deputies, only one person voted in favor of GNA. The government and General Haftar – backed by Parliament – have feuded since GNA’s inception, creating an even more unstable political arena since Gaddafi’s fall.\n\nIn January 2017, Deputy Prime Minister of GNA, Musa al-Koni, formally resigned, stating the government had \"failed to tackle urgent problems arising from years of conflict and political disarray\", Reuters reported. Specifically, al-Koni stated:\"I announce my resignation due to the failure of the Presidential Council, because it holds responsibility for the killing, kidnapping, and rape that happened over the past year.\"In an August 2017 article, The National pointed out that nine of the original presidency members have subsequently quit since GNA took power, including the ministers for justice, reconciliation and finance.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "29275200", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29275200", "title": "Guam Department of Chamorro Affairs", "text": "Guam Department of Chamorro Affairs\n\nThe Guam Department of Chamorro Affairs () is an agency of the government of Guam dealing with the Chamorro people and Chamorro culture. The agency has its headquarters in Suite 408 on the fourth floor of the DNA Building in Hagåtña.\n\nChamorro Village (), a market and a cultural attraction, is a division of the Department of Chamorro Affairs.\n\n"}
{"id": "19780756", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19780756", "title": "History of the Democratic Alliance (South Africa)", "text": "History of the Democratic Alliance (South Africa)\n\nAlthough the Democratic Alliance of South Africa in its present form is fairly new, its roots can be traced far back in South African political history, through a complex sequence of splits and mergers.\n\nThe party that won the first general elections after the formation of the Union of South Africa in 1910 was the South African Party. The SAP was a merger of the South African Party and the Afrikaner Bond of the Cape Colony, Het Volk of Transvaal and Orangia Unie of the Orange Free State. The Progressive Party of the Cape Colony merged with the Progressive Association of Transvaal and the Constitutional Party of the Orange Free State to form the Unionist Party. The southern Natal province had no institutionalized parties, but politicians from the province joined the new parties. In the Cape Colony, the SAP were proponents of a multiracial franchise, and its most prominent members were John Xavier Merriman and William Phillip Schreinier, whereas the Progressives led by Cecil Rhodes and Leander Starr Jameson were more firmly pro-British in orientation.\n\nIn the Union, the SAP was a broad-based party committed to unity between Afrikaners and English-speakers, typified by its leaders Louis Botha and Jan Smuts. Its more pro-British tendencies provoked a reaction from Afrikaner nationalists who formed the National Party in 1914, led by J. B. M. Hertzog. The NP's rise in support and the decline of the Unionist Party led to their merger under the leadership of Smuts in 1920. The SAP lost power to a National-Labour coalition in 1924.\n\nIn 1934, the NP and the SAP entered into a coalition, which led to the creation of a merged United Party (UP), although a hard-line nationalist faction led by D. F. Malan stayed out. The United Party included both liberal and conservative elements, but followed a pro-Union, pro-British policy which resulted in Hertzog and his followers withdrawing from it in 1939. The United Party lost power in 1948 to the National Party under Malan, who began to implement the policy of apartheid. Smuts died two years later, his probable heir Jan Hendrik Hofmeyr having died in 1948. Hofmeyr and Piet van der Byl were said to have epitomized a more progressive outlook when addressing the racial question.\n\nThe United Party continued to exist after 1959 and was the source of several breakaway groups which merged with later ancestor parties. The party's uncertain response to apartheid under the leadership of J.G.N. Strauss and De Villiers Graaff provoked considerable discord. Generally the party was critical of the injustices of the government's segregationist policies, but offered no clear alternative until its waning years in the 1970s, although it took an increasingly critical stance. In 1953, the Liberal Party was formed in response and existed until 1968, when it dissolved rather than restrict its membership on a racial basis. The Progressive Party was formed in 1959.\n\nThe historical predecessor of the modern-day Democratic Alliance, was The Progressive Party (PP), and was founded in 1959 when liberal members seceded from the United Party (UP). They could not agree with the inability of the UP to present an alternative to the National Party's apartheid policy. The PP emphasized constitutional reform, a Bill of Rights, an independent judiciary and the evolution towards federalism. These reform proposals were combined with advocacy of a free market economy. In 1961 only Helen Suzman was elected in parliament. For 13 years she was the only opponent of racial discrimination and other apartheid regime's abuses in the whites-only parliament, fighting against detention without trial, pass laws and influx control. From 1971 Colin Eglin was the party leader, without being a member of parliament himself. In 1974 the party won seven seats.\n\nA year later, in July 1975, the Progressive Party merged with the Reform Party (RP), a breakaway party of the United Party. The outcome was the formation of the South African Progressive Reform Party (PRP). Former Reform Party leader Harry Schwarz was appointed chairman of the PRP's National Executive, while Eglin was elected leader.\n\nBy 1977, support for the United Party was in rapid decline, and further dissident UP members formed a Committee for a United Opposition, before joining the PRP to form the Progressive Federal Party (PFP). Later that year, the PFP became official opposition following the 1977 general election. The PFP drew support mainly from liberal English-speaking white South Africans, as owing to South Africa's apartheid laws, its membership was limited to the country's whites. The PFP was derided by right-wing whites, who claimed its initials stood for 'Packing for Perth', on account of the many white liberal supporters of the 'Progs' who were emigrating to Australia. What was left of the United Party merged with the Democratic Party, which had formed by moderate National Party dissidents in 1973 and led by former interior minister Theo Gerdener, to form the New Republic Party (NRP). Another offshoot of the UP was the South African Party (reviving the name of the original SAP). Both the NRP and SAP were more conservative than the PFP, but envisioned a federal solution to the country's racial question. The SAP grew closer to the ruling National Party and merged into it by 1980, and the growing \"verligte\" (\"enlightened\") tendency within the National Party itself espoused expanded political participation for non-whites. The NRP was overshadowed by the PFP as an opposition party, in terminal decline by 1987 and dissolving itself shortly after. At the same time, disaffected NP members such as Dennis Worrall and Wynand Malan broke away and later formed the Independent Party which absorbed the remaining base of the NRP.\n\nFrederik van Zyl Slabbert, PFP leader since 1979, resigned from parliament in 1986 because it had, in his view, become irrelevant. Later he formed The Institute for Democratic Alternatives in South Africa (IDASA). He was succeeded by Colin Eglin. The PFP was ousted as the official opposition by the far-right Conservative Party in the whites-only parliamentary elections held on 6 May 1987. This electoral blow led many of the PFP's leaders to question the value of participating in the whites-only parliament, and some of its MPs left to join the National Democratic Movement (NDM). The formation of the Independent Party (IP) of Denis Worrall further split the liberal opposition.\n\nAll of these currents reunited into the Democratic Party by 1989.\n\nFollowing the realignment of opposition politics in the 1970s, with the fall of the United Party and subsequent rise of the Progressive Federal Party as successor as the official parliamentary opposition, the National Party's authoritarian and apartheid policies faced much stronger parliamentary opposition.\n\nIn 1979, the PFP launched the \"strongest parliamentary measures\" possible against the Advocate-General Act, that would prohibit press from reporting on allegations of corruption and irregularities without first having such allegations cleared. PFP Colin Eglin launched the attack on the bill, stating that it was an attempt by the National Party to \"muzzle the press and deny the public right to know\". Helen Suzman, who attempted to delay the bill, argued that it was \"essential that the press be no further restricted than it already was. It is essential that nothing hinders the press in its duty to inform the public\".\n\nIn 1980, the National Party introduced the National Key Points Act that made those responsible for unauthorised reporting of incidents of sabotage or other attacks on declared national strategic targets a crime. These moves were slammed by MPs such as Harry Schwarz, who stated that \"Society as a whole is not condemned because individuals transgress, and nor should the press as a whole be judges by the actions of individuals.\" Stating that press restrictions marked a \"turning point\" in South African politics, he also argued that press freedom was a \"precious treasure\" and a free and courageous press was a major weapon in South Africa's defence against external threats.\n\nDuring the Constitutional Reform Debate of 1983, the PFP attempted to incorporate a 'Bill of Rights' into the new constitution proposed by the National Party, the first motion of its kind ever brought before Parliament. The motion was first submitted in August 1983, by Shadow Finance Minister Harry Schwarz. He stated that the Bill should guarantee freedom from discrimination on the ground of race, colour, sex or creed, freedom of conscience and religion, of thought, belief, opinion and expression, including freedom of the press, of association, peaceful assembly and movement, and freedom to pursue the gaining of a livelihood. It also included freedom from deprivation of life, liberty, security and property, except in accordance with the principles of fundamental justice. It would also guarantee equality before the law and equal protection and benefit of law.\n\nSchwarz argued that if included in the constitution of the republic, it would act as a \"protector of rights many people had struggled to achieve in South Africa\" as well as to \"act as an inspiration\" to the people of South Africa and would \"be a unifying factor in a country in which unity of people is essential for survival\". Helen Suzman, Shadow Law and Order Minister, argued that the exclusion of the bill would lead to \"a further loss of civil liberties by all South Africans - in short, to one-party, one-group dictatorship in this country\". It was also argued that the bill would be a statement of intent demonstrating that the days of discrimination on the grounds of race or colour had come to an end.\n\nWhile virtually all MPs of the Progressive Federal Party supported the bill, no other party in Parliament supported it. Rejecting Schwarz’s proposal, Daan van der Merwe of the Conservative Party stated that the bill, based on a \"leftist-liberal political philosophy\", would jeopardise the freedom of the white man. New Republic Party leader Vause Raw said Schwarz \"a master at platitudes\" was seeking idealistic freedoms that did not exist anywhere in the world. Following the rejection of Schwarz’s bill, fellow PFP MPs' Helen Suzman, Colin Eglin, Ray Swart and Dave Dalling attempted a further four times to introduce a Bill of Rights. The Bills were effectively blocked by the National Party by placing them at the end of the order paper.\n\nAfter the 1987 elections, the new PFP leader Zach de Beer concluded negotiations with the IP and the NDM to merge into the Democratic Party in 1989, and proceeded to win 36 seats in the elections that year. The DP played a vital role in the negotiation of an interim constitution which includes most of the original progressive principles and ideals. In 1991 Harry Schwarz, one of the party's founders and most prominent leaders was appointed South African Ambassador to the United States, the first opposition member to become an ambassador in South African history. In the 1994 general election, the first after apartheid was abolished, the party won only 1.7% of the vote and 10 seats in parliament. Nelson Mandela's eldest daughter Makaziwe and F. W. De Klerk's brother Willem (who was a co-founder of the party) voted for the Democratic Party in these elections.\n\nSoon after the elections, De Beer was succeeded by Tony Leon, who emphasized the protection of human rights, federalism and free enterprise. The party improved its performance during the 1999 general election to receive 9.6% of the vote and 38 seats, replacing the New National Party (NNP) as official opposition. The NPP remained influential in the Western Cape due to its retention of the cape coloured vote, but the DP emerged as kingmakers in the province and opted to become the junior partner in a coalition government with the NNP. At this point, the NNP had officially abandoned its earlier apartheid ideology and attempted to rebrand itself as a none-racial conservative force, thus making the party an acceptable coalition partner for the DP.\n\nIn 2000, the DP joined with the NNP and the much smaller Federal Alliance to form the Democratic Alliance (DA) in preparation for the local government elections of 5 December 2000, in which members of the three parties would contest as DA candidates. Members elected to the National Assembly or the Provincial Legislatures could not defect without losing their seats, as floor crossing legislation was not yet in effect, so the DP and DA would exist side by side until 2003. The new DA won 22% of the vote in the local government elections and secured an outright majority in the Cape Town unicity with 52.5% of the vote compared to 38% for the ANC. Peter Marais became mayor of Cape Town, and the DA also took control of 20 local municipalities in the Western Cape.\n\nThe brittle alliance with the NNP lasted only until October 2001, when the NNP left to form a new alliance with the African National Congress. The Federal Alliance also left the DA to instead join the Freedom Front Plus. A new government was formed in the Western Cape consisting of the NNP and the ANC in December 2001, while the defection of some NNP councillors during the October 2002 floor-crossing window resulted in the DA losing control of Cape Town and most of the local municipalities in the Western Cape. Partially compensating for this, the DA accepted an offer late in 2002 to join the governing coalition in the KwaZulu-Natal province, in which it held cabinet seats until 2004 when that province too was won by an ANC-led coalition.\n\nThe DA decided to maintain the new creation however, and the DP was disbanded and merged into the DA during the 2003 floor-crossing window, with all remaining DP public representatives becoming DA members. With the 2004 general election, the DA and ANC increased their vote share, at the expense of other opposition parties. The DA won 12.4% of the votes and 50 seats, and remains the second largest political party in South Africa. By contrast, the NNP was in terminal decline and won only 7 seats. It merged with the ANC in 2005. A political realignment had occurred in the sense that the white and Coloured electorate the NP/NNP had retained in 1994 had in large part shifted to the DA, though other parties such as the new Independent Democrats had also benefited from the NNP's collapse. The NNP had also been beset by internal dissension and an uncertain position towards the ANC, later cooperating with it.\n\nOn 1 March 2006, the DA won 16.3% of the vote in the local government elections, and regained control of the City of Cape Town from the ANC - the only Metropolitan Council in South Africa not controlled by the ANC. Helen Zille was elected executive mayor on 15 March 2006 and formed a coalition with six smaller parties as the DA failed to win an outright majority in the council. In the local government elections the DA had won 41.8% of the vote in Cape Town compared to 38.5% for the ANC. In 2007, Zille went on to win the leadership of the party in a landslide vote following the retirement of long-serving Tony Leon. As Zille opted to remain as mayor of Cape Town as well as adopt the position of leader of the DA, a separate post of parliamentary leader was established. The role was first filled by Sandra Botha, until announcing her retirement from party politics in January 2009. She was succeeded by Athol Trollip. Later, Lindiwe Mazibuko and Mmusi Maimane would also serve in the role.\n\nThe DA was then \"re-launched\" in preparation for the upcoming general election. DA convened a meeting on Constitutional Hill to present the party as one which no longer acts as an opposition but offers voters another choice for government. Along with this, the party also introduced a new logo, featuring a rising sun over the colours of the South African flag (representing the Rainbow Nation), and a new slogan, \"One Nation, One Future.\" This is in line with the new strategy the party was implementing with regard to a non-racial South Africa where everyone has equal opportunities. Party leader, Helen Zille said the new DA would be \"more reflective of our rich racial, linguistic and cultural heritage\". Zille has emphasised that she wants the party to be a \"party for all the people\" and not decline into a \"shrinking, irrelevant minority\". She has also spoken out against the party's image as being exclusively 'white'.\n\nIn the 2009 general election, after a campaign that was more than ever disproportionally focused on the Western Cape province, DA increased its national share of the vote to 16,7%, winning 67 seats in the National Assembly. Much of this increase came from the Western Cape, where DA won an outright majority on the provincial ballot thanks to a large increase of coloured support at the expense of several of the established parties. Zille was later sworn in as the provincial premier. Owing to its modest growth in the rest of South Africa, however, the newly formed Congress of the People (COPE) overtook the DA as official opposition in several provinces.\n\nThe DA consolidated its dominance in the Western Cape during the 2011 municipal elections, aided in part by a merger agreement with the Independent Democrats; DA won control of two thirds of the councils in the province. The party also improved its position in the rest of the country, made easier by the sharp decline of COPE following internal leadership disputes. DA built on these gains in the 2014 general election, in which it retained the Western Cape with an increased majority and won 22,2% nationally with 89 seats, the best performance of any party other than the ANC in democratic South Africa. Its campaign to win the Gauteng province failed, but the party grew its support substantially there and in other provinces.\n\nIn 2015, Helen Zille stepped down as national leader (but remained premier). Mmusi Maimane, who had served as parliamentary leader since the latest election, was elected as the new party leader, the first black person to hold the position.\n\nOn 13 November 2009, the Democratic Alliance marked the fiftieth anniversary of the formation of the Progressive Party in Cape Town in the old chamber of parliament. Around 20 former MPs from the DA's predecessor parties attended. Elder statesmen of the DA Colin Eglin and Harry Schwarz, along with then DA leader Helen Zille gave speeches. While praising the liberal contribution to opposing and ending apartheid, they stated how South Africa and the DA still had much work to do. Harry Schwarz delivered his last ever speech, his death following in February 2010. He paid tribute to Helen Zille, calling her the embodiment of the principles he and others had fought for and warned that \"Freedom is incomplete if it is exercised in poverty\", a phase he often used. Colin Eglin praised the liberal opposition to apartheid, stating that the principles that they had fought had been \"entrenched in the Constitution\". Helen Zille also quoted the first Progressive Party leader, Jan Steytler, that in 1959 had stated that South Africa wanted to \"face the future, not with fear, but with confidence that we can live together in harmony in a multi-racial country.\"\n\nLeaders of the Democratic Alliance, and its predecessor parties:\n\nParliamentary leaders of the Democratic Alliance and its predecessor parties, in the absence of a sitting party leader in Parliament:\n\n\nFederal chairpersons (sometimes referred to as 'national chairpersons') and chairpersons of the party's federal council (sometimes referred to as the party's 'federal executive' or the 'national council'), since the merger of the Reform Party and the Progressive Party in 1975:\n\nChief executive officers of the Democratic Alliance:\n\nThe following table shows the electoral performance of the Democratic Party and its predecessors in elections to the House of Assembly prior to 1994. These elections were restricted to white citizens.\nThe following table shows electoral performance for the Democratic Party and the Democratic Alliance in elections to the National Assembly since the advent of democracy in 1994.\n"}
{"id": "28618079", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28618079", "title": "Human rights in Malawi", "text": "Human rights in Malawi\n\nThe history of human rights in Malawi during recent decades is complicated, and the situation at present is in a state of dramatic, and positive, transition. \n\nUntil 1994, conditions were quite unsatisfactory. Things improved after the ratification in that year of Malawi's new, \"unusually progressive\" constitution, which introduced multi-party democracy. However, toward the end of the presidency of Bingu wa Mutharika, who died in office in April 2012, the situation worsened, only to improve rapidly following the accession to the presidency of Mutharika's vice-president, Joyce Banda.\n\nThe International Foundation for the Protection of Human Rights noted in late 2011 that Malawi was “once considered a country where civil society could express itself freely.” \n\nA 2010 report by the British High Commission stated that Malawi had “made good progress on human rights since the introduction of multi-party democracy” in 1994, when Malawi's Constitution went into effect. The British report noted that Malawi's Constitution “protects fundamental rights,” that the country “has signed up to most international treaties,” and that there were “no political prisoners in Malawi jails as was the case during the one-party era.” The report also pointed to progress “in the areas of macroeconomic stability and access to basic social and economic rights such as health, education, food security and justice,” while calling for improvements “in the areas of press freedom, freedom of assembly and speech and the rights of minority groups.” \nBut toward the end of the presidency (2004-2012) of Bingu wa Mutharika, the human-rights situation in Malawi deteriorated significantly. According to a U.S. State Department report on human-rights conditions in Malawi in 2010, the major human-rights problems included “police use of excessive force, which resulted in deaths and injuries; security force impunity, although the government made some efforts to prosecute abusers; occasional mob violence; harsh and life-threatening prison conditions; arbitrary arrest and detention; lengthy pretrial detention; limits on freedom of speech and the press; official corruption; societal violence against women; trafficking in persons; and child labor.” \n\nIn late 2011, the International Foundation for the Protection of Human Rights described Malawi as having “descended into a spiral of authoritarianism in recent years,” and indicated that “[t]he situation deteriorated further in early 2011 when civil society reacted to corruption scandals and high commodity prices with demands for reform and good governance. The Government, mindful of events in North Africa, reacted with force. The authorities made statements inciting violence against human rights defenders and civil society leaders.”\n\nSimilarly, a Human Rights Watch report described Malawi's human-rights situation as having “deteriorated significantly in 2011, with President Bingu wa Mutharika’s government acting in an increasingly repressive manner.” During the year, Mutharika had “signed repressive new legislation, including Section 46 of the penal code, which allows the minister of information to ban publications deemed 'contrary to the public interest.'” A new Injunctions Law prohibiting the filing of civil suits against government officials. University lecturers and students who had criticized the government’s human-rights failures had been harassed, and a university student who was vice-president of Youth for Freedom and Democracy (YFD) had been “found dead at the Polytechnic campus with a deep cut to his head. Although police ruled his death a suicide, civil society activists accused the government of involvement in Chasowa’s death.” \nThe human-rights crisis in Malawi came to a head on July 20, 2011, when Malawian police killed 19 unarmed individuals who were taking part in nationwide protests against economic conditions and against the increasing repression under President Mutharika. About five hundred persons were arrested, and a number of journalists were beaten or otherwise restrained from covering the protests and atrocities. \n\nMutharika's aggression toward human-rights activists and other opponents of his regime continued. In September firebombs were thrown at the homes or offices of several critics of the government; in October police arrested five anti-government activists for “holding an illegal demonstration.” In March 2012, journalists and activists were warned that anyone insulting the president would be prosecuted and face jail time. On March 16, the head of the Malawi Human Rights Commission was arrested without a warrant and charged with possession of “materials with seditious words,” although no such materials were in fact found. On March 21, a leading member of the opposition party, the United Democratic Front, was arrested and charged with inciting violence. \n\nOn March 23, Human Rights Watch commented with concern on the Mutharika government's “recent surge of arrests and threats against critics,” which it described as reflecting a “broader crackdown on free speech and other basic rights.” The human-rights situation in Malawi became so dire that over the course of 2011, Britain, the United States, Germany, the World Bank, the EU, the African Development Bank, and Norway all suspended or partially froze aid to the country, in response to which an angry Mutharika refused to meet with World Bank and IMF delegations accused donor nations of providing financial support to his opponents. \n\nIn April 2012, President Mutharika died suddenly, and Vice-President Joyce Banda became president. In August 2012, Human Rights Watch noted that Malawi had “made notable progress” in human rights since the accession to the presidency of Banda, who had introduced greater media freedom, was calling for the repeal of antigay laws, and was threatening “to arrest President Omar al-Bashir of Sudan, who is wanted for war crimes by the International Criminal Court, if he tries to enter her country.” Under Banda, the donor nations that had wholly or partly suspended their aid to Malawi resumed providing support. \n\nAt a June 2012 press conference in Malawi, UN Deputy High Commissioner for Human Rights Kyung-wha Kang said that Banda had “swiftly moved to tackle many pressing human rights concerns” and praised “her strong commitment to advancing human rights and the welfare of the people of Malawi.” \nObserving that “Malawi has a very progressive constitution with strong human rights provisions, and a good set of laws and institutions in place to promote and protect human rights,” Kyung-wha Kang said that “[i]t is now time to strengthen a culture of human rights and the rule of law in Government institutions and in the individuals responsible for the protection, promotion and fulfilment of the full range of human rights for the people of Malawi.” Kyung-wha Kang emphasized that Malawians, emerging “from a period of political repression,” needed “to hear from their leadership that the fundamental freedoms of expression, association and assembly will be respected fully, and to see concrete actions taken to demonstrate this commitment.” \n\nOne indication of the change in attitude toward human rights under Banda was her announcement in June 2012 that Malawi, which had been scheduled to host the African Union (AU) summit in July, would not host it if President Omar al-Bashir of Sudan, who is wanted by the International Criminal Court for war crimes, genocide, and crimes against humanity, were allowed to attend. “Malawian President Joyce Banda took a strong stance in support of justice despite tough pressure from the African Union,” said Undule Mwakasungula, director of the Malawi Centre for Human Rights and Rehabilitation. “Malawi has done right by Darfur victims today.” \nAlthough the human-rights situation has definitely improved under Banda, “some Malawians,” according to the Voice of America, “have been accusing human rights groups of deliberately muting their criticisms of the new administration,” saying that it “has failed to respond to consumers affected by currency devaluation and price hikes.” The VOA quotes Billy Banda, executive director of the human-rights organization Malawi Watch, as saying that his and other groups “were not deliberately keeping quiet” but were instead “lobbying silently” in order to help Banda's government survive through a difficult time. “But by giving support, that does not necessarily mean that were condoning the current administration. We are urging the administration to open a window of interaction so that whenever people raise concerns they should take heed.”\n\nThe following chart shows Malawi's ratings since 1972 in the Freedom in the World reports, published annually by Freedom House. A rating of 1 is \"free\"; 7, \"not free\".\n\nThe Malawi Human Rights Commission (MHRC) was established by the country's 1994 constitution and became fully functional in 1998 or 1999. It is charged with protecting human rights and investigating violations. The Commission has “broad powers to hear and obtain any necessary evidence, to conduct searches after obtaining a warrant issued by a magistrate, and to exercise 'unhindered authority' to visit detention center[s] 'with or without notice.'” It does not have the power to prosecute offenders, but it “can intervene in court cases and it has acted as amicus curiae.” Transparency International reported in 2004 that “the MHRC is perceived as one of the most efficient public institutions in the country.” or 1999 \n\nDuring the presidency of Bingu wa Mutharika, the Human Rights Commission was hampered by a lack of resources and a fear of reprisals. Even under Mutharika, however, the MHRC retained its independence, according to the Human Rights Institute of the International Bar Association, as “exhibited through the concerted efforts of the outgoing chair of the MHRC, John Kapito,” whose open criticism of Mutharika's government resulted in threats and harassment. Despite concerns about \nits sustainability, the MHRC continued under Mutharika “to execute its mandate to the best of its ability.” \n\nIn June 2012, UN Deputy High Commissioner for Human Rights Kyung-wha Kang said that the MHRC had “done exemplary work, including through very difficult times in the past year. It is important that the independence and broad mandate of the MHRC are maintained and respected.” \nSwearing in new members of the Commission in August 2012, President Banda assured them of her support for their work and of her commitment to their independence. She urged them to make the most of their “advisory role” and assured them “that nobody will be arrested by my office and I shall not hesitate to seek advice from your institution.”\n\nThe Malawian Constitution has often been described as very strong in its human-rights guarantees, although under Mutharika the constitutional rights of Malawians were increasingly violated. The Bill of Rights included in the Constitution, according to the International Bar Association, explicitly protects “the rights to life, dignity, equality and the right to freedom of conscience, belief, thought and religion and to academic freedom.” It also protects “freedom of expression, freedom of information, freedom of movement and freedom of assembly. Any limit or restriction imposed on rights and freedoms must be consistent with Malawi’s obligations under international human rights law.” \n\nThe 2012 report of the Human Rights Institute of the International Bar Association indicates that even in the last days of Mutharika's regime, when the news media were subjected to “interference and harassment” and “incidents of intimidation,” they “remained relatively free” and continued to “present a diversity of opinion.” The report cited “the burning of vehicles of independent radio service Zodiak,” the death threats reportedly received by journalists, the arrest and beating of journalists at the July 2011 demonstrations, and the government-ordered “media blackout” of those demonstrations. \n\nUnder Banda, the constitutional protections of fundamental rights are being respected by the government to a far greater degree than during Mutharika's last years. For example, Section 46 of the Penal Code, under which a cabinet minister could shut down newspapers that were considered “contrary to the public interest,” has been repealed. The Injunction Law, under which government officials enjoyed immunity from prosecution, has also been repealed. \n\nDuring her June 2012 visit to Malawi, UN Deputy High Commissioner for Human Rights Kyung-wha Kang noted that there were a “number of draft laws on matters including HIV/AIDS, gender equality, and trafficking in persons that are pending consideration,” and expressed hope “that the new laws will be in line with international human rights standards.”\n\nThe topic of LGBT rights has been unusually prominent, and has been the focus of great contention, during the last years of the Mutharika regime and the early months of the Banda administration. \n\nUnder Malawi's colonial-era sodomy laws, consensual same-sex behavior between men is punishable by up to 14 years in prison for men. In December 2009, under the presidency of Bingu wa Mutharika, two men were convicted of “unnatural practices between men and gross public indecency” and sentenced to 14 years at hard labor. After widespread public criticism of this harsh punishment, the president pardoned the men. In the same month, however, the parliament passed legislation that criminalized sex between women, making it punishable by as much as 5 years in prison.\n\nTwo Malawian activist groups, the Center for the Development of People (CEDEP) and the Center for Human Rights and Rehabilitation (CHRR), have long lobbied Malawian officials to change the law. \nIn May 2012, in her first address to the nation after becoming president, Joyce Banda said that the laws against “unnatural acts and indecency” would be reviewed “as a matter of urgency,” and suggested that she would decriminalize homosexual acts by repealing Sections 153 and 156 of the Penal Code. This statement was widely noticed and applauded, with Canadian Foreign Affairs Minister John Baird praising Banda for her “commitment to repeal discriminatory legislation, including legislation that persecutes gays and lesbians.” In September 2012, however, Banda “told reporters from international media in September that Malawians might not be ready for such a change, and suggested that members of parliament should take the question of decriminalization back to their constituencies.” \n\nIn a radio debate on November 5, 2012, Justice Minister Ralph Kasambara announced a moratorium on arrests on charges of sodomy, an act that Human Rights Watch characterized as “a compromise position, which will permit parliament to debate possible legislative change.” At least part of the reason for Kasambara's action, reportedly, was a concern that Malawi's antigay law might violate the constitution's strong language about the “inherent dignity and worth of each human being” and “the rights and views of all individuals,” and that it was incompatible with the International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights, of which Malawi is a signatory. \n\nTiseke Kasambala of Human Rights Watch congratulated Malawi for taking “this bold step forward, putting respect for its own constitutional guarantees of equality front and center.” A representative of Amnesty International said that the organization “welcomes Minister Kasambara’s statement and hopes it serves as the first step towards ending discrimination and persecution based on real or perceived sexual orientation and gender identity in Malawi.” However, three days following his announcement of the moratorium, which had been fiercely criticized by Malawian church officials and by the Law Society, Minister Kasambara claimed that he had never declared any such moratorium and said “that laws carrying up to 14 years in prison for committing homosexual acts were still being enforced.”\n\nThere is great stigma associated with HIV/AIDS status in Malawi, and considerable discrimination. MHRC Commissioner Dalitso Kubalasa said in October 2012 that “HIV and AIDS is a human rights issue in that lack of respect for human rights increases the spread and impact of the epidemic. Furthermore, the disease exposes people who are affected by the virus to various human rights violations through stigma and discrimination.” He urged that district commissioners be given training that would reduce this stigma and discrimination.\n\nA 2012 report by the Human Rights Institute of the International Bar Association, based on observations made before Banda's accession to the presidency, noted “the use of excessive force by the police, especially in the context of handling political dissent.” The report criticized police conduct during the demonstrations in July 2011, and focused on “the suspicious death of student activist and Youth for Freedom and Democracy Vice President, Robert Chasowa,” in September 2011, pointing out that “a post-mortem report contradicted police claims that Chasowa committed suicide,” indicating rather “that his injuries were most likely due to assault.” The reported noted “with satisfaction” that Banda had “appointed a commission of inquiry to investigate Chasowa’s death.” \n\nIn July 2012, the UN Deputy High Commissioner for Human Rights Kyung-wha Kang expressed\n“serious concerns about ill treatment and violence, in some cases leading to death, by the police against crime suspects.” Praising Banda's government for its determination to restore public trust in the police, Kyung-wha Kang said she looked forward “to seeing this commitment backed up by concrete actions, including training and efforts to fight impunity for such violations.” As a “welcome step in the right direction” she praised the “new police complaints mechanism.”\n\nDuring her July 2012 visit to Malawi, the UN human-rights official Kyung-wha Kang noted “shortcomings in the administration of justice in Malawi.” The MHRC has alleged “that certain members of the judiciary appear aligned to the executive and that this undermines the effectiveness of the MHRC.” Also, the Human Rights Institute of the International Bar Association noted in 2012 that the office of the Director of Public Prosecutions “is currently severely understaffed,” and lacking in experienced staffers. This causes major delays in the administration of justice, with “criminal cases...taking two to three years on average before trial.” \n\nAccording to the International Bar Association, “the remuneration of judges and judicial support staff is a serious problem,” leading to concerns “that some judges might be more inclined to look to other, sometimes improper, ways of earning extra income.” Furthermore, the International Bar Association noted with concern that there is no specific qualification, training, or code of conduct for magistrates, and that most High Court and Supreme Court of Appeal judges “obtained their law degrees during the one party era, when human rights were not covered extensively in the curriculum,” a problem that the United Nations Office of the High Commissioner for Human Rights and other organizations have sought to remedy by organizing “workshops and seminars on human rights for the judiciary.”\n\nThe UN Deputy Hugh Commissioner for Human Rights Kyung-wha Kang noted in July 2012 the persistence of a number of serious problems in Malawian prisons, including “[p]rolonged detention in severely overcrowded holding cells, due to a backlog of cases and the slow processing of bail applications.” She noted that the efforts were being made to resolve this problem “and to explore alternatives to detention and imprisonment,” and praised “this shift in thinking.”\n\nMalawi Watch Human Rights, founded in 1992, “is an advocacy and lobbying non-governmental organization that works in areas of political and economic governance.” Its website has not been updated since January 2011. \n\nThe Centre For The Development Of People (CEDEP) is a human-rights organization “dedicated to addressing the needs, improving the lives, and providing support for some of Malawi's most neglected minority groups through civic education, training, capacity building, networking and research.” Its members believe “that improving the welfare of minority groups, including prisoners, sex workers, and those in same-sex relationships, is crucial to the health and well-being of all peoples.” \n\nThe Human Rights Consultative Committee, founded in 1995, is a network consisting of church institutions, human-rights groups, and the Law Society of Malawi, all of which work together on advocacy, monitoring, and other activities with the goal of protecting and promoting human rights in Malawi. The home of the HRCC's acting national coordinator, was a target of an arson attack in 2011. \n\nThe Centre for Human Rights and Rehabilitation (CHRR) is another leading Malawian human rights organization, also founded in 1995. \n\nThe Institute for Policy Interaction is another Malawian human-rights group. Its director, Rafiq Hajat, was forced to go into hiding during the presidency of Mutharika. On September 3, 2011, a petrol bomb was thrown into IPI offices in Blantyre, causing considerable damage.\n\nMalawi is a signatory of the following international agreements: \n• African Charter on Human and Peoples’ Rights (1981)\n\n• Convention on the Elimination of All Forms of Discrimination against Women (1987)\n\n• African Charter on the Rights and Welfare of the Child (1990)\n\n• Convention on the Rights of the Child (1991)\n\n• International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights (1993)\n\n• International Covenant on Economic, Social and Cultural Rights (1993)\n\n• Convention Against Torture and Other Cruel, Inhuman or Degrading Treatment or Punishment\n\n• First Optional Protocol to the International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights (1996)\n\n• Convention on the Elimination of All Forms of Racial Discrimination (1996)\n\n• Rome Statute of the International Criminal Court (1998)\n\n• Protocol to the African Charter on Human and Peoples’ Rights on the Rights of Women in Africa (2005)\n\n• Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities (2009)\n\n• Optional Protocol to the Convention on the Rights of the Child on the Sale of Children. Child Prostitution and Child Pornography (2009)\n\n• Optional Protocol to the Convention on the Rights of the Child on the Involvement of Children\nin Armed Conflict (2010).\n\n\n"}
{"id": "50164352", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50164352", "title": "Human rights in the Marshall Islands", "text": "Human rights in the Marshall Islands\n\nThe Marshall Islands is a country in the Pacific spread over 29 coral atolls, with 1,156 islands and islets. It has an estimated population of 68,480 and is one of the sixteen member states of the Pacific Islands Forum. \nSince 1979, the Marshall Islands has been self-governing.\n\nWhile the Marshall Islands has a Bill of Rights guaranteeing fundamental rights and freedom from discrimination, it is home to a number of human rights issues. According to the Marshall Islands 2015 Human Rights Report, the \"most significant human rights problems included prison conditions, chronic government corruption, and chronic domestic violence\" and other human rights problems included \"child abuse, sex trafficking, and lack of legal provisions protecting workers' rights.\"\n\nAs a member state of the United Nations the Marshall Islands is subject to the Universal Periodic Review (UPR), a process that involves a review of human rights records. By the time of its UPR in 2010, the Marshall Islands, among other states in the Asia Pacific, was reluctant to form a National Human Rights Institution despite recommendations for its establishment from the Human Rights Council. However, in 2015 the Marshall Islands passed legislation to set up a Human Rights Committee and related procedures.\n\nThe Marshall Islands has ratified the following agreements:\nHowever, no international treaty has force in law until it is approved by the Nitijela (Parliament).\n\nAlthough the Marshall Islands intends to ratify the outstanding human rights conventions, its resource constraints have made full implementation of human rights conventions difficult in the past.\n\nThe Constitution of the Republic of the Marshall Islands sets out the powers and functions of the executive, legislative and judicial branches of Government.\n\nArticle II of the Constitution contains a Bill of Rights which outlines the basic rights afforded to people in the Marshall Islands. These rights include equal protection to men and women and freedom from discrimination, personal autonomy and privacy, access to health education and legal services, ethical government and other rights retained by the people.\n\nJean Zorn says that the rights expressed and explained in Article II \"tend to follow American models closely, with no particular modifications to make them applicable to the special circumstances and culture of the Marshalls\". Additionally, the Bill of Rights has been criticised for being of \"such liberality that its practical application by [the Courts] would serve to defeat the purposes of the criminal justice system taking into account the circumstances now prevailing in the Republic.\"\n\nIn 2015, the Nitijela (Parliament) enacted the Human Rights Committee Act 2015 in order to establish a Human Rights Committee and to provide for its \"membership, functions, powers and administration\" as well as to \"establish a complaints mechanism for the redress of human rights violations\".\n\nThe death penalty was abolished by the Constitution when the small Pacific archipelago became independent in 1986.\n\nLegislative power is vested in the Nitijela (Parliament). The Nitijela has 33 seats which are elected under a system of universal suffrage. Access to electoral processes is protected by sections 14(2) and (3) of the Bill of Rights.\n\nA citizen of the Marshall Islands is not qualified to be registered as an elector if he or she:\n\nAbsentee voting is allowed. Since many Marshallese reside in the US, the majority of votes are cast by people who are not experiencing life in the Marshall Islands.\n\nAccess to judicial process is protected by section 14 of the Bill of Rights. According to subsection 1, \"[e]very person has the right to invoke the judicial process as a means of vindicating any interest preserved or created by law, subject only to regulations which limit access to courts on a non-discriminatory basis.\"\n\nFurthermore, section 4 of the Bill of Rights entitled, \"Due Process and Fair Trials\", expresses that \"no person shall be deprived of ... liberty, or property without due process of law.\"\n\nThe Constitution expressly provides for freedom of thought, conscience and belief. This seems to have been adhered to as there have been no reports of major societal actions affecting religious freedom. While the majority (around 52 percent) of the population belongs to the United Church of Christ, there are also a number of other religions practised and there is no one particular religion enforced in public schools. Rather, most schools merely begin and end certain events with an interdenominational Christian prayer.\n\nFreedom of expression is guaranteed by section 1(2)(c) of the Bill of Rights, which states that no-one will be penalised merely on the basis of disagreement with the ideas or beliefs expressed.\n\nThe Government is the main employer in the Marshall Islands. There is no legislation relating to collective bargaining, trade union organisation or striking.\n\nThe current minimum wage is USD2.00 per hour but a 2016 Amendment Bill intends to increase the amount to USD3.00 per hour. The minimum wage is lower than in the US. This, along with the fact that the Compact of Free Association entitles Marshallese citizens to live, work and study in the US visa-free as \"non-immigrant residents\", has resulted in many Marshallese citizens migrating to the US for its higher wages and standards of living.\n\nThe Marshall Islands has been a member of the International Labour Organization (ILO) since 2007, although, its involvement has been limited.\n\nSection 12 of the Bill of Rights headed, \"Equal protection and Freedom from Discrimination\", guarantees protection against discrimination on the basis of race, among other factors.\n\nWomen's rights are a significant issue in the Marshall Islands \"given the absence in the over-arching freedom from discrimination clause of sex or gender as a prohibited ground of discrimination.\" Furthermore, while the Constitution guarantees equal protection of the law, the CEDAW Legislative Compliance Review noted the Constitution does not guarantee equal benefits or outcomes as required by [CEDAW].\n\nDespite this, the Marshall Islands achieved its 2015 targets relating to gender equality and women's empowerment set by the Millennium Development Goals.\n\nEqual age of consent has also existed since 2005.\n\nWhile the Marshall Islands has ratified the Convention on the Rights of the Child, it does not yet have force of law. However, \"national law is interpreted where possible in a manner consistent with the CRC and other international human rights obligations.\"\n\nOther than sections 119-113 of the Domestic Relations Act 1980, there are no laws or official procedures for adoption. This gives the courts, under section 119, license to create their own rules and procedures relating to adoption. Jack Jorban says this is contrary to the Bill of Rights which is contained in the Constitution of the Republic of the Marshall Islands.\n\nAlthough the Constitution prohibits discrimination on certain grounds, the Committee on the Rights of the Child stated in its concluding observation in 2007, that it remained concerned that the principle of non-discrimination was not fully implemented for children living in the outer islands and in disadvantaged urban communities, \"especially with regard to their access to adequate health and educational facilities.\"\n\nIn addition to ratifying the Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities (CRPD) in 2015, the Marshall Islands passed into law the Human Rights Committee Act 2015, the Domestic Violence Protection Prevention Act 2011, the Child Protection Act 2015 and the Rights of Persons with Disabilities Act 2015.\n\nThe Constitution does not include disability in its listing of specific prohibited grounds of discrimination. Additionally, the Marshall Islands National Policy on Disability Inclusive Development – 2014-2018 states that \"attitudes towards PWD [persons with disabilities] are typically negative with teasing and mocking commonplace, reinforcing stigma and stereotypes.\"\n\nThe Trafficking in Persons Report 2015 categorised the Marshall Islands as a Tier 3 country in regards to human trafficking which means it does not fully comply with the minimum standards and is not making significant efforts to do so. This categorisation occurred automatically because any country that has been rated Tier 2 Watch List for two consecutive years, will receive Tier 3 ranking in the third year. Additionally, the RMI does not have a written plan for bringing itself into compliance with the minimum standards for the elimination of trafficking and consequently its automatic Tier 3 status cannot be waived.\n\nIt is both a source and destination country for RMI women and girls and women from East Asia subjected to sex trafficking.\n\nThere have been several human rights initiatives that have aimed at improving various human rights issues in the Marshall Islands. \nFor instance, United Nations Women has a Marshall Island project which was completed in 2010, aimed at enabling Marshallese women to fully participate in democratic processes and address gender imbalance at all levels of decision-making.\n\nHuman rights in the Marshall Islands have been violated, particularly as a result of US nuclear testing. During the Cold War, the Marshall Islands was used as a testing site for the US's expanding nuclear arsenal. For instance, between 1946 and 1958, 67 nuclear tests were conducted at the islands. The Castle Bravo test of March 1954 is particularly poignant because it released thirty times more radioactive iodine than the 2011 Fukushima and 1986 Chernobyl leaks combined.\n\nIn 2012 the Marshall Islands Minister of Foreign Affairs Phillip H Miller said that \"much more remains to be done to address the past, present, and future such impacts on the basic human rights\" of the Marshallese communities affected by the US's nuclear weapons testing program.\n\n"}
{"id": "37339262", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37339262", "title": "International Voluntary Service", "text": "International Voluntary Service\n\nInternational Voluntary Service (IVS), is a peace organisation working for the sustainable development of local and global communities throughout the world. The organisation was formed in 1931 and is a registered charity in England, Wales and Scotland. \n\nThe mission of the International Voluntary Service is to foster Peace and understanding between peoples and nations through the mutual exchange of volunteers. This ethos is summed up by the strapline 'Volunteering for Peace'. \n\nIn 1931, Service Civil International sent a team of international volunteers to the Welsh colliery town of Brynmawr. The volunteers redeveloped a brownfield site into a public park, which included an outdoor swimming pool.\n\nThe Brynmawr redevelopment was the first international project in the United Kingdom and marked the beginning of International Voluntary Service, shortly after IVS became the first recognised branch of the SCI.\n\nIn 1939 the UK Government officially recognised alternative civilian service as an alternative to military service. This policy change led to sharp rise in the number active volunteers.\n\nSince 2011, IVS has delivered peace education within UK schools.\n\nThe International Voluntary Service is accredited as a sending and co-ordinating organisation for the European Voluntary Service.\n\nThe International Voluntary Service is a founding partner of Service Civil International, a global network of international volunteering organisations.\n\nAs a Partner, IVS can send and receive volunteers to and from countries with an active SCI branch.\n\nBetween 1960–1966 Lord Frank Judd, Baron Judd acted as the Secretary General of the International Voluntary Service. Lord Judd remains a Patron for IVS.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3875015", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3875015", "title": "John of Giscala", "text": "John of Giscala\n\nJohn of Giscala ( \"Yohanan mi-Gush Halav\" or \"Yohanan ben Levi\"), the son of Levi, (birth date unknown; death date after 70), was a leader of the Jewish revolt against the Romans in the First Jewish-Roman War, and played a part in the destruction of Jerusalem in 70 CE. During the outbreak of the Jewish war with Rome, John had vied with Josephus (Joseph Mattithiah) over the control of Galilee and had amassed to himself a large band of supporters from Gischala (Gush Halab) and Gabara, including the support of the Sanhedrin in Jerusalem.\n\nAs part of the Roman campaign to put down the revolt in Judea, Titus marched on Gush Halav, called Giscala by the Romans. Giscala was the last town in Galilee not yet conquered. Outside the walls of the city, he called on them to surrender. John prevailed upon Titus not to enter the city that day, as it was Sabbath, \"not so much out of regard to the seventh day as to his own preservation.\" John fled to Jerusalem that night, and \"Titus was greatly displeased that he had not been able to bring this John, who had deluded him, to punishment.\"\n\nWhen John entered Jerusalem, it was in an uproar, and the people clamored for news.\n\nSoon after his arrival in Jerusalem, he played an instrumental part in the outcome of the Zealot Temple Siege, handing the city over to control of the Zealots. He attempted to set himself up as ruler of Jerusalem but was challenged in April 69 by Simon Bar Giora. They were both in turn challenged by a third faction led by Eleazar ben Simon. John and the Zealots fought in the civil war with these two factions until he was finally captured by Titus during the Siege of Jerusalem. He was sentenced to life imprisonment, taken to Rome and paraded through the streets in chains.\n\nHe was the subject of the Italian drama \"Giovanni di Giscala\" (1754) by Alfonso Varano. The work inspired the Italian opera \"Giovanni di Giscala\" (1855) by Giovanni Gaetano Rossi and Alfonso Cavagnar.\n\n"}
{"id": "31647999", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31647999", "title": "Kinnikinnick", "text": "Kinnikinnick\n\nKinnikinnick is a Native American and First Nations herbal smoking mixture, made from a traditional combination of leaves or barks. Recipes for the mixture vary, as do the uses, from social, to spiritual to medicinal. \n\nThe term \"kinnikinnick\" derives from the Unami Delaware , \"mixture\" (\"c.f.\" Ojibwe \"giniginige\" \"to mix \"something animate\" with \"something inanimate\"), from Proto-Algonquian \"*kereken-\", \"mix (it) with something different by hand\".\n\nBy extension, the name was also applied by the colonial European hunters, traders, and settlers to various shrubs of which the bark or leaves are used in the mixture, most often Bearberry (\"Arctostaphylos spp.\") and to lesser degree, Red Osier Dogwood (\"Cornus sericea\") and Silky Cornel (\"Cornus amomum\"), and even to Canadian Bunchberry (\"Cornus canadensis\"), Evergreen Sumac (\"Rhus virens\"), Littleleaf Sumac (\"Rhus microphylla\"), Smooth Sumac (\"Rhus glabra\"), and Staghorn Sumac (\"Rhus typhina\").\n\n\nThe preparation varies by locality and nation. Bartlett quotes Trumbull as saying: \"I have smoked half a dozen varieties of kinnikinnick in the North-west — all genuine; and have scraped and prepared the red willow-bark, which is not much worse than Suffield oak-leaf.\n\nEastern tribes have traditionally used \"Nicotiana rustica\" for social smoking, while western tribes usually use a variety of kinnikinick for ceremonial use. Cutler cites Edward S. Rutsch's study of the Iroquois, listing ingredients used by other Native American tribes: leaves or bark of red osier dogwood, arrowroot, red sumac, laurel, ironwood, wahoo, squaw huckleberry, Indian tobacco, cherry bark, and mullein, among other ingredients.\n\nAmong the Ojibwe, Densmore records the following: The material smoked by the Chippewa in earliest times were said to be the dried leaves of the bearberry (\"Arctostaphylos uva-ursi\" (L.) Spreng.), and the dried, powdered root of a plant identified as \"Aster novae-angliae\" L.. Two sorts of bark were smoked, one being known as \"red willow\" (\"Cornus stolonifera\" Michx.) and the other as \"spotted willow\" (\"Cornus rugosa\" Lam.). The inner bark is used, after being toasted over a fire and powdered. It is then stored in a cloth or leather bag, and may be used on its own or in combination with other herbs.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "578121", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=578121", "title": "Köprülü family", "text": "Köprülü family\n\nThe Köprülü family () was a noble family of Albanian origin in the Ottoman Empire. The family provided six grand viziers (including Kara Mustafa Pasha, who was a stepson), with several others becoming high-ranking officers. The era during which these grand viziers served is known as the \"Köprülü era\" of the Ottoman Empire.\n\nAnother notable member of the family was Köprülü Abdullah Pasha (1684–1735), who was a general in Ottoman-Persian wars of his time and acted as the governor in several provinces of the empire. Modern descendants include Mehmet Fuat Köprülü, a prominent historian of Turkish literature. Members of the family continue to live in Turkey and the United States.\n\nDuring the history of the Ottoman Empire, the Köprülü grand viziers had a reputation for dynamism in a state that would later show signs of decline and stagnation. The early viziers in particular focused on military campaigns that extended the Empire's power. This, however, came to an end after the disastrous Battle of Vienna launched by Kara Mustafa Pasha, a member of the family (see also the Treaty of Karlowitz).\n\n"}
{"id": "39154650", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39154650", "title": "LGBT rights in Mato Grosso do Sul", "text": "LGBT rights in Mato Grosso do Sul\n\nLesbian, gay, bisexual, and transgender (LGBT) people in Mato Grosso do Sul, Brazil enjoy many of the same legal protections available to non-LGBT people. Homosexuality is legal in the state.\n\nMato Grosso do Sul was among the first states in Brazil to enact a state constitution banning discrimination on the basis of sexual orientation, doing so in 1989 alongside the state of Sergipe.\n\nOn 2 April 2013, the Court of Mato Grosso do Sul authorizes marriage between same-sex couples in the state\n"}
{"id": "32044", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32044", "title": "Libertarian Party (United States)", "text": "Libertarian Party (United States)\n\nThe Libertarian Party (LP) is a political party in the United States that promotes civil liberties, non-interventionism, \"laissez-faire\" capitalism and shrinking the size and scope of government. The party was conceived at meetings in the home of David F. Nolan in Westminster, Colorado in 1971 and was officially formed on December 11, 1971 in Colorado Springs, Colorado. The founding of the party was prompted in part due to concerns about the Nixon administration, the Vietnam War, conscription and the end of the gold standard.\n\nThe party generally promotes a classical liberal platform, in contrast to the Democrats' modern liberalism and progressivism and the Republicans' conservatism. Gary Johnson, the party's presidential nominee in 2012 and 2016, states that the Libertarian Party is more culturally liberal than Democrats, and more fiscally conservative than Republicans. Current fiscal policy positions include lowering taxes, abolishing the Internal Revenue Service (IRS), decreasing the national debt, allowing people to opt out of Social Security and eliminating the welfare state, in part by utilizing private charities. Current cultural policy positions include ending the prohibition of illegal drugs, advocating criminal justice reform, supporting same-sex marriage, ending capital punishment<ref name=\"http://www.lp.org/platform#1.8\">\"2016 platform\".</ref> and supporting gun ownership rights. Many Libertarians believe in lowering the drinking age to 18.\n\nWhile it is the third largest political party in the United States, it currently has no members in Congress, governorships, or state legislative seats. There are 511,277 voters (0.46% of total) registered as Libertarian in the 30 states that report Libertarian registration statistics and Washington, D.C. The Libertarian Party was the party under which the first electoral vote was cast for a woman (Tonie Nathan) for Vice President in the 1972 United States presidential election due to a faithless elector.\n\nThe first Libertarian National Convention was held in June 1972. In 1978, Dick Randolph of Alaska became the first elected Libertarian state legislator. Following the 1980 federal elections, the Libertarian Party assumed the title of being the third-largest party for the first time after the American Independent Party and the Conservative Party of New York (the other largest minor parties at the time) continued to decline. In 1994, over 40 Libertarians were elected or appointed which was a record for the party at that time. 1995 saw a soaring membership and voter registration for the party. In 1996, the Libertarian Party became the first third party to earn ballot status in all 50 states two presidential elections in a row. By the end of 2009, 146 Libertarians were holding elected offices.\n\nTonie Nathan, running as the Libertarian Party's vice presidential candidate in the 1972 presidential election with John Hospers as the presidential candidate, was the first female candidate in the United States to receive an electoral vote.\n\nThe 2012 election Libertarian Party presidential candidate, former New Mexico Governor Gary Johnson, received the highest number of votes—more than 1.2 million—of any Libertarian presidential candidate at the time. He was renominated for president in 2016, this time choosing former Massachusetts Governor William Weld as his running mate. Johnson/Weld shattered the Libertarian record for a presidential ticket, earning over 4.4 million votes. Both Johnson and Green Party candidate Jill Stein received significantly more news coverage in 2016 than third-party candidates usually get, with polls showing both candidates potentially increasing their support over the last election, especially among younger voters.\n\nThough the party has never won a seat in the United States Congress, it has seen electoral success in the context of state legislatures and other local offices. Three Libertarians were elected to the Alaska House of Representatives between 1978 and 1984 and another four to the New Hampshire General Court in 1992. Neil Randall, a Libertarian, won the election to the Vermont House of Representatives in 1998 and was re-elected until 2002, which marked the last time to date a Libertarian was elected to a state legislature. Rhode Island State Representative Daniel P. Gordon was expelled from the Republicans and joined the Libertarian Party in 2011. In July 2016 and June 2017, the Libertarians tied their 1992 peak of four legislators when four state legislators from four different states left the Republican Party to join the Libertarian Party: Nevada Assemblyman John Moore in January, Nebraska Senator Laura Ebke (although the Nebraska Legislature is officially non-partisan) and New Hampshire Representative Max Abramson in May and Utah Senator Mark B. Madsen in July. In the 2016 election cycle, Madsen and Abramson did not run for re-election to their respective offices while Moore lost his race after the Libertarian Party officially censured him over his support of taxpayer stadium funding. Ebke was not up for re-election in 2016. New Hampshire Representative Caleb Q. Dyer changed party affiliation to the Libertarian Party from the Republican Party in February 2017. New Hampshire Representative Joseph Stallcop changed party affiliation to the Libertarian Party from the Democratic Party in May 2017. New Hampshire State Legislator Brandon Phinney joined with the Libertarian Party from the Republican Party in June 2017, the third to do so in 2017 and matching their 1992 and 2016 peaks of sitting Libertarian state legislators.\n\nIn January 2018, sitting New Mexico Commissioner of Public Lands Aubrey Dunn Jr. changed party affiliation from Republican to the Libertarian Party, becoming the first Libertarian statewide officeholder in history.\n\nIn 1972, \"Libertarian Party\" was chosen as the party's name, selected over \"New Liberty Party\". The first official slogan of the Libertarian Party was \"There ain't no such thing as a free lunch\" (abbreviated \"TANSTAAFL\"), a phrase popularized by Robert A. Heinlein in his 1966 novel \"The Moon Is a Harsh Mistress\", sometimes dubbed \"a manifesto for a libertarian revolution\". The current slogan of the party is \"The Party of Principle\".\n\nAlso in 1972, the \"Libersign\"—an arrow angling upward through the abbreviation \"TANSTAAFL\"—was adopted as a party symbol. By the end of the decade, this was replaced with the Lady Liberty until 2015, with the adoption of the current \"Torch Eagle\" logo.\n\nIn the 1990s, several state Libertarian parties adopted the Liberty Penguin (\"LP\") as their official mascot. Another mascot is the Libertarian porcupine, an icon that was originally designed by Kevin Breen in March 2006 and inspired by the logo of the Free State Project (FSP).\n\nThe Libertarian Party is democratically governed by its members, with state affiliate parties each holding annual or biennial conventions at which delegates are elected to attend the party's biennial national convention. National convention delegates vote on changes to the party's national platform and bylaws and elect officers and \"At-Large\" representatives to the party's National Committee.\n\nThe National Committee also has \"Regional Representatives\", some of whom are appointed by delegate caucuses at the national convention whereas others are appointed by the chairpersons of LP state affiliate chapters within a region.\n\nThe Libertarian National Committee (LNC) is a 27-member body including alternates, or 17 voting members and is currently chaired by Nicholas Sarwark. The LNC is responsible for overseeing day-to-day operations of the Libertarian Party and its national office and staff. Wes Benedict is currently the Executive Director of the Libertarian Party.\n\nThe Libertarian Party is organized in all 50 states and the District of Columbia. Each state affiliate has a governing committee, usually consisting of statewide officers elected by state party members and regional representation of one kind or another. Similarly, county, town, city and ward committees, where organized, generally consist of members elected at the local level. State and local committees often coordinate campaign activities within their jurisdiction, oversee local conventions and in some cases primaries or caucuses and may have a role in nominating candidates for elected office under state law.\n\nSince the Libertarian Party's inception, individuals have been able to join the party as voting members by signing their agreement with the organization's membership pledge, which states that the signer does not advocate the initiation of force to achieve political or social goals. During the mid-1980s and into the early 1990s, this membership category was called an \"instant\" membership, but currently, these are referred to as \"signature members\". People joining the party are also asked to pay dues, which are on a sliding scale starting at $25 per year. Lifetime membership is granted with a $1,500 donation in one calendar year. Dues-paying members receive a subscription to the party's national newspaper, \"LP News\". Since 2006, membership in the party's state affiliates has been separate from membership in the national party, with each state chapter maintaining its own membership rolls.\n\nMost rights to participate in the governance of the party are limited to \"bylaws-sustaining members\" who have either purchased a lifetime membership or donated at least $25 within the past year. Most state parties maintain separate membership, which may be tied to either payment of dues to the state party, or voter registration as a Libertarian, depending on the state's election laws.\n\nThe preamble outlines the party's goals: \"As Libertarians, we seek a world of liberty; a world in which all individuals are sovereign over their own lives and no one is forced to sacrifice his or her values for the benefit of others. [...] Our goal is nothing more nor less than a world set free in our lifetime, and it is to this end that we take these stands\". Its Statement of Principles begins: \"We, the members of the Libertarian Party, challenge the cult of the omnipotent state and defend the rights of the individual\". The Statement of Principles is foundational to the ideology of the party and was created specifically to bind the party to certain core principles with a high parliamentary burden for any amendment.\n\nThe platform emphasizes individual liberty in personal and economic affairs, avoidance of \"foreign entanglements\" and military and economic intervention in other nations' affairs, and free trade and migration. The party opposes gun control. It calls for Constitutional limitations on government as well as the elimination of most state functions. It includes a \"Self-determination\" section which quotes from the Declaration of Independence and reads: \"Whenever any form of government becomes destructive of individual liberty, it is the right of the people to alter or to abolish it, and to agree to such new governance as to them shall seem most likely to protect their liberty\". It also includes an \"Omissions\" section which reads: \"Our silence about any other particular government law, regulation, ordinance, directive, edict, control, regulatory agency, activity, or machination should not be construed to imply approval\".\n\nThe party favors minimally regulated markets, a less powerful federal government, strong civil liberties (including LGBT rights, with the party supporting same-sex marriage), the liberalization of drug laws, separation of church and state, open immigration, non-interventionism and neutrality in diplomatic relations, free trade and free movement to all foreign countries and a more representative republic. The party's position on abortion is that government should stay out of the matter and leave it to the individual, but recognizes that some \"good-faith\" opinions on this issue are different. Ron Paul, one of the former presidential nominees of the Libertarian Party in 1988, is strictly pro-life. Gary Johnson, the party's 2012 and 2016 presidential candidate, is pro-choice, as were most of the party's past nominees other than Paul.\n\nThe Statement of Principles was written by John Hospers. The Libertarian Party's bylaws specify that a 7/8ths supermajority of delegates is required to change the Statement of Principles. Any proposed platform plank found by the Judicial Committee to conflict with the Statement requires approval by a three-fourths supermajority of delegates. Early platform debates included at the first convention whether to support tax resistance and at the 1974 convention whether to support anarchism. In both cases, a compromise was reached.\n\nThe first Libertarian presidential candidate, John Hospers, received one electoral vote in 1972 when Roger MacBride, a Virginia Republican faithless elector pledged to Richard Nixon, cast his ballot for the Libertarian ticket. His vote for Theodora (\"Tonie\") Nathan as Vice President was the first electoral college vote ever to be cast for a woman in a United States presidential election. MacBride became the Libertarian nominee himself in 1976. This was the last time that the Libertarian Party won an electoral vote until 44 years later, in the 2016 presidential election, when Texas Republican faithless elector Bill Greene, who was pledged to cast his vote for Donald Trump, instead cast his vote for Libertarian Party member and former congressman Ron Paul for President.\n\nDuring the 2016 presidential election, Gary Johnson and vice presidential candidate Bill Weld received a record percentage of 3.28% of the popular vote (4,488,919 votes), getting 9.34% in New Mexico, where Johnson had previously been elected Governor. In the 2012 presidential election, Johnson and running mate Jim Gray received 1,275,821 votes (1%).\n\n\nSource:\n\nHistorically, Libertarians have achieved 50-state ballot access for their presidential candidate four times: in 1980, 1992, 1996 (in 2000, L. Neil Smith was on the Arizona ballot instead of the nominee, Harry Browne) and most recently in 2016.\n\nIn April 2012, the Libertarian Party of Nebraska successfully lobbied for a reform in ballot access with the new law requiring parties to requalify every four years instead of two. Following the 2012 election, the party gained automatic ballot status in 30 states.\n\nFollowing the 2016 election, the party announced that it had achieved automatic ballot status in 37 or 38 states plus the District of Columbia.\n\nIn the Libertarian Party, some donors are not necessarily \"members\" because the party since its founding in 1972 has defined a \"member\" as being someone who agrees with the party's membership statement. The precise language of this statement is found in the party Bylaws. As of the end of 2017, there were 138,815 Americans who were on record as having signed the membership statement. A survey by David Kirby and David Boaz found a minimum of 14 percent American voters to have libertarian-leaning views.\n\nThere is another measure the party uses internally as well. Since its founding, the party has apportioned delegate seats to its national convention based on the number of members in each state who have paid minimum dues (with additional delegates given to state affiliates for good performance in winning more votes than normal for the party's presidential candidate). This is the most-used number by party activists. As of December 2017, the Libertarian Party reported that there were 14,445 donating members.\n\nHistorically, dues were $15 throughout the 1980s and in 1991 they were increased to $25. Between February 1, 2006, and the close of the 2006 Libertarian party convention on May 31, 2006, dues were set to $0. However, the change to $0 dues was controversial and was \"de facto\" reversed by the 2006 Libertarian National Convention in Portland, Oregon, at which the members re-established a basic $25 dues category (now called Sustaining membership) and further added a requirement that all National Committee officers must henceforth be at least sustaining members (which was not required prior to the convention).\n\nBallot access expert and editor of \"Ballot Access News\" Richard Winger periodically compiles and analyzes voter registration statistics as reported by state voter agencies and he reports that as of mid-2017 the party ranked third in voter registration nationally with 511,277.\n\nLibertarians have had limited success in electing candidates at the state and local level. Since the party's creation, 10 Libertarians have been elected to state legislatures and some other state legislators have switched parties after being originally elected as Republicans or Democrats. The most recent Libertarian candidate elected to a state legislature was Steve Vaillancourt to the New Hampshire House of Representatives in 2000. The party elected multiple legislators in New Hampshire during the 1990s as well as in Alaska during the 1980s. One of the party's Alaska state legislators, Andre Marrou was nominated for Vice President in 1988 and for President in 1992.\n\nAs of 2017, there were 168 Libertarians holding elected office: 58 of them partisan offices and 110 of them non-partisan offices. In addition, some party members, who were elected to public office on other party lines, explicitly retained their Libertarian Party membership and these include former Representative Ron Paul, who has repeatedly stated that he remains a life member of the Libertarian Party.\n\nCurrently, the party has four sitting members of state legislatures. Laura Ebke serves in the nonpartisan Nebraska Legislature and announced her switch from being a Republican to a Libertarian in 2016. Three members of the New Hampshire House of Representatives who were elected as either Republicans or Democrats in the 2016 election announced their switch to the Libertarian Party in 2017.\n\nState Senator Mark B. Madsen of Utah announced his switch from Republican to Libertarian in 2016, but also did not seek re-election that year. State Representative Max Abramson of New Hampshire switched from Republican to Libertarian before running as the party's gubernatorial candidate in 2016 instead of seeking re-election. State Representative John Moore of Nevada briefly switched parties, but he was defeated for re-election in 2016.\n\nAubrey Dunn Jr., the New Mexico Commissioner of Public Lands, switched his voter registration from Republican to Libertarian in January, 2018. In doing so, Dunn became the first official elected to a statewide partisan office to have Libertarian voter registration.\n\nSome Libertarian candidates for state office have performed relatively strongly in statewide races. In 2016, Joe Miller gained 29.1% of the vote in a four-way Senate race in Alaska, the best ever for a Libertarian candidate in a Senate election. In 2012, Mike Fellows, the Libertarian Party candidate in Montana for the statewide position of Clerk of the Supreme Court, received 43% of the vote as the sole opponent to Democratic candidate Ed Smith, winning 27 of the state's 56 counties. This was the best a Libertarian candidate has ever polled percentage wise for a statewide office. In 1982, Dick Randolph earned 15% of the vote in his race for Alaska governor.\n\nIn the 1992 election for Senator from New York, Norma Segal received 108,530 votes or 1.68% – which was greater than the spread between Republican incumbent Alphonse D'Amato (49.03%) and Democrat challenger Robert Abrams (47.78%). In two Massachusetts Senate races (2000 and 2002), Libertarian candidates Carla Howell and Michael Cloud, who did not face serious Republican contenders (in 2002 the candidate failed to make the ballot), received a party record-setting 12% and 18% respectively. In Indiana's 2006 U.S. Senate race, which lacked a Democratic candidate, Steve Osborn received 13% of the vote. In 2012, Joel Balam set a record for the largest percent of the vote in a House election, running in Kansas's 3rd congressional district against Republican incumbent Kevin Yoder without a Democratic opponent and receiving 32% of the vote (he received 92,675 votes according to official Kansas State voting records). In 2002, Ed Thompson, the brother of former Wisconsin Governor Tommy Thompson, received 11% of the vote (third-best ever Libertarian result for Governor) running for the same office, resulting in a seat on the state elections board for the Libertarian Party. In 2008, Libertarian Party of Georgia Public Service Commission candidate John Monds became the first Libertarian in history to garner 1,076,726 votes (33%).\n\nTop 10 by vote count:\n\nA Monmouth University opinion poll conducted on March 24, 2016 found Libertarian candidate Gary Johnson in double digits with 11% against Donald Trump (34%) and Hillary Clinton (42%) in a three-way race while a CNN poll from July 16, 2016, found Johnson with a personal best 13% of the vote. To be included in any of the three main presidential debates, a candidate must be polling at least 15% in national polls.\n\nFollowing Trump's win in the Indiana Republican primary, making him the presumptive Republican nominee, the Libertarian Party received a rise in attention. Between 7 pm on May 3 and 12 pm on May 4, the Libertarian Party received 99 new memberships and an increase in donors as well as a rise in Google searches of \"Libertarian Party\" and \"Gary Johnson\". On May 5, Mary Matalin, a longtime Republican political strategist, made news when she switched parties to become a registered Libertarian, expressing her dislike of Trump. On May 24, 2016, Matalin endorsed Missouri Libertarian candidate Austin Petersen.\n\nSeveral Republican elected officials publicly stated that they considered voting for the Libertarian Party ticket in 2016. That included 2012 Republican presidential nominee Mitt Romney. It had been a common question and concern that the Libertarian ticket will exclusively draw away votes from Donald Trump and not the Democratic ticket. In response, Libertarian 2016 nominee Gary Johnson noted that analysis of national polls shows more votes drawn from Hillary Clinton.\n\nAfter the conclusion of the Electoral College in 2016, the Libertarian Party received one electoral college vote from a faithless elector in Texas. However, the party's 2016 nominee Gary Johnson did not receive the vote. The single faithless vote went instead to former Republican Congressman Ron Paul, who had rejoined the Libertarian Party in 2015. He is the first Libertarian to receive an electoral vote since 1972.\n\nAfter President (then-candidate) Donald J Trump won Indiana's 2016 Republican primary, several Republican officeholders left the Party and changed their affiliation to the Libertarian Party. The first to do so was John Moore, a then-sitting Assemblyman in Nevada. Following the 2016 Nebraska State Legislative Session, state Senator Laura Ebke announced her displeasure with the Republican Party and announced she was registering as a Libertarian. After that, Mark B. Madsen, a Utah State Senator, switched from the Republican Party to the Libertarian Party. From February to June 2017, three New Hampshire State Representatives (Caleb Q. Dyer, Joseph Stallcop and Brandon Phinney) left the Republican and Democratic Parties and joined the Libertarian Party. In January 2018, New Mexico Commissioner of Public Lands Aubrey Dunn Jr. switched his party registration from Republican to Libertarian and subsequently announced he would run as the Libertarian nominee for the Senate election in New Mexico. Dunn is the first Libertarian in a statewide office and as a result is the highest public official from the Libertarian Party. All of the Libertarian office holders who were up for reelection in 2018 were defeated by a majority party challenger.\n\nThe Libertarian Party has placed a presidential candidate on the ballot in all 50 states, as well as D. C., five times. That level of ballot access has only been achieved by a third-party candidate four other times (John Anderson in 1980, Lenora Fulani in 1988, and Ross Perot in 1992 and 1996.) Although the territory of Guam has no electoral votes, it began holding presidential elections in 1980. The Libertarian Party presidential candidate appeared on the ballot in Guam in every election from 1980 through 2012. Anderson and Fulani were also on the ballot in Guam.\n\nThe following is a table comparison of ballot status for the Libertarian Party presidential nominee from 1972 to 2016. \nThe Libertarian Party supports \"laissez-faire\" capitalism and the abolition of the modern welfare state. It adopts pro-civil liberties and pro-cultural liberal approaches to cultural and social issues. Paul H. Rubin, professor of law and economics at Emory University, believes that while liberal Democrats generally seek to control economic activities and conservative Republicans generally seek to control consumption activities such as sexual behavior, abortion and so on, the Libertarian Party is the largest political party in the United States that advocates few or no regulations in what he deems \"social\" and \"economic\" issues.\n\nThe \"poverty and welfare\" issues page of the Libertarian Party's website says that it opposes regulation of capitalist economic institutions and advocates dismantling the entirety of the welfare state: We should eliminate the entire social welfare system. This includes eliminating food stamps, subsidized housing, and all the rest. Individuals who are unable to fully support themselves and their families through the job market must, once again, learn to rely on supportive family, church, community, or private charity to bridge the gap.According to the party platform: \"The only proper role of government in the economic realm is to protect property rights, adjudicate disputes, and provide a legal framework in which voluntary trade is protected\" (adopted May 2008).\n\nThe Libertarian Party believes government regulations in the form of minimum wage laws drive up the cost of employing additional workers. That is why Libertarians favor loosening minimum wage laws so that overall unemployment rate can be reduced and low-wage workers, unskilled workers, visa immigrants and those with limited education or job experience can find employment.\n\nThe party supports ending the public school system. The party's official platform states that education is best provided by the free market, achieving greater quality, accountability and efficiency with more diversity of school choice. Seeing the education of children as a parental responsibility, the party would give authority to parents to determine the education of their children at their expense without interference from government. This includes ending corporal punishment within public schools. Libertarians have expressed that parents should have control of and responsibility for all funds expended for their children's education.\n\nThe Libertarian Party supports a clean and healthy environment and sensible use of natural resources, believing that private landowners and conservation groups have a vested interest in maintaining such natural resources. The party has also expressed that \"governments, unlike private businesses, are unaccountable for such damage done to the environment and have a terrible track record when it comes to environmental protection\". The party contends that the environment is best protected when individual rights pertaining to natural resources are clearly defined and enforced. The party also contends that free markets and property rights (implicitly without government intervention) will stimulate the technological innovations and behavioral changes required to protect the environment and ecosystem because environmental advocates and social pressure are the most effective means of changing public behavior.\n\nThe Libertarian Party opposes all government intervention and regulation on wages, prices, rents, profits, production and interest rates and advocate the repeal of all laws banning or restricting the advertising of prices, products, or services. The party's recent platform calls for the repeal of the income tax, the abolition of the Internal Revenue Service and all federal programs and services, such as the Federal Reserve System. The party supports the passage of a Balanced Budget Amendment to the Constitution which they believe will significantly lower the national debt, provided that the budget is balanced preferably by cutting expenditures and not by raising taxes. Libertarians favor free-market banking, with unrestricted competition among banks and depository institutions of all types. The party also wants a halt to inflationary monetary policies and legal tender laws. While the party defends the right of individuals to form corporations, cooperatives and other types of companies, it opposes government subsidies to business, labor, or any other special interest.\n\nThe Libertarian Party favors a free market health care system without government oversight, approval, regulation, or licensing. The party states that it \"recognizes the freedom of individuals to determine the level of health insurance they can afford (if any), the amount of health care they can afford, the care providers they can afford, the medicines and treatments they can use and all other aspects of their medical care, including the many end-of-life decisions that will follow\". They support the repeal of all social insurance policies such as Medicare and Medicaid and favor \"consumer-driven health care\". The Libertarian Party has been advocating for Americans' ability to purchase health insurance across state lines.\n\nThe Libertarian Party consistently lobbies for the removal of governmental impediments to free trade. This is because their platform states that \"political freedom and escape from tyranny demand that individuals not be unreasonably constrained by government in the crossing of political boundaries\". To promote economic freedom, they demand the unrestricted movement of humans as well as financial capital across national borders. However, the party encourages blocking immigration of those with violent backgrounds or violent intent.\n\nThe Libertarian Party supports the repeal of all laws which impede the ability of any person to find employment while opposing government-fostered/forced retirement and heavy interference in the bargaining process. The party supports the right of free persons to associate or not associate in labor unions and believes that employers should have the right to recognize or refuse to recognize a union.\n\nThe party believes that retirement planning is the responsibility of the individual, not the government. Libertarians would phase out the current government-sponsored Social Security system and transition to a private voluntary system. The Libertarians feel that the proper and most effective source of help for the poor is the voluntary efforts of private groups and individuals, believing members of society will become more charitable and civil society will be strengthened as government reduces its activity in that realm.\n\nThe Libertarian Party supports the legalization of all victimless crimes,<ref name=\"http://www.lp.org/platform\"></ref> including drugs, pornography, prostitution, polygamy, gambling, removal of restrictions on homosexuality, opposes any kind of censorship and supports freedom of speech and supports the right to keep and bear arms while opposing Federal capital punishment. The Libertarian Party's platform states: \"Government does not have the authority to define, license or restrict personal relationships. Consenting adults should be free to choose their own sexual practices and personal relationships\".\n\nThe official Libertarian party platform states: \"Recognizing that abortion is a sensitive issue and that people can hold good-faith views on all sides, we believe that government should be kept out of the matter, leaving the question to each person for their conscientious consideration\". Libertarians have very different opinions on the issue, just like in the general public. Some, like the group Libertarians for Life, consider abortion to be an act of aggression from the government or mother against a fetus. Others, like the group Pro-Choice Libertarians, consider denying a woman the right to choose abortion to be an act of aggression from the government against her.\n\nShortly before the 2000 elections, the party released a \"Libertarian Party Program on Crime\" in which they criticize the failures of a recently proposed Omnibus Crime Bill, especially detailing how it expands the list of capital crimes. Denouncing Federal executions, they also describe how the party would increase and safeguard the rights of the accused in legal settings as well as limit the use of excessive force by police. Instead, criminal laws would be reduced to violations of the rights of others through either force or fraud with maximum restitution given to victims of the criminals or negligent persons. In 2016, the party expanded their platform to officially support the repeal of capital punishment.\n\nThe Libertarian Party supports unrestricted freedom of speech and is opposed to any kind of censorship. The party describes the issue in its website: \"We defend the rights of individuals to unrestricted freedom of speech, freedom of the press and the right of individuals to dissent from government itself. [...] We oppose any abridgment of the freedom of speech through government censorship, regulation or control of communications media\". The party claims it is the only political party in the United States \"with an explicit stand against censorship of computer communications in its platform\".\n\nThe Libertarian Party favors election systems that are more representative of the electorate at the federal, state and local levels. The party platform calls for an end to any tax-financed subsidies to candidates or parties and the repeal of all laws which restrict voluntary financing of election campaigns. As a minor party, it opposes laws that effectively exclude alternative candidates and parties, deny ballot access, gerrymander districts, or deny the voters their right to consider all legitimate alternatives. Libertarians also promote the use of direct democracy through the referendum and recall processes.\n\nThe Libertarian Party advocates repealing all laws that control or prohibit homosexuality. According to the Libertarian Party's platform: \"Sexual orientation, preference, gender, or gender identity should have no impact on the government's treatment of individuals, such as in current marriage, child custody, adoption, immigration or military service laws\".\n\nGay activist Richard Sincere has pointed to the longstanding support of gay rights by the party, which has supported same-sex marriage since its first platform was drafted in 1972 (40 years before the Democratic Party adopted same-sex marriage into their platform in 2012). Many LGBT political candidates have run for office on the Libertarian Party ticket and there have been numerous LGBT caucuses in the party, with the most active in recent years being the Outright Libertarians. Many Outright Libertarians have expressed support for a proposed Employment Non-Discrimination Act that would end LGBT employment discrimination.\n\nIn 2009, the Libertarian Party of Washington encouraged voters to approve Washington Referendum 71 that extended LGBT relationship rights. According to the party, withholding domestic partnership rights from same-sex couples is a violation of the Equal Protection Clause of the Constitution. In September 2010, in the light of the failure to repeal the \"Don't Ask, Don't Tell\" policy (which banned openly gay people from serving in the military) during the Obama administration, the Libertarian Party urged gay voters to stop supporting the Democratic Party and vote Libertarian instead. The policy was repealed at the end of 2010.\n\nThe Libertarian Party views attempts by government to control obscenity or pornography as \"an abridgment of liberty of expression\" and opposes any government intervention to regulate it. According to former Libertarian National Committee chairman Mark Hinkle, \"Federal anti-obscenity laws are unconstitutional in two ways. First, because the Constitution does not grant Congress any power to regulate or criminalize obscenity, and second, because the First Amendment guarantees the right of free speech\". This also means that the party supports the legalization of prostitution. Many men and women with backgrounds in prostitution and activists for sex workers' rights, such as Norma Jean Almodovar and Starchild, have run for office on the Libertarian Party ticket or are active members of the party. Norma Jean Almodovar, a former officer with the Los Angeles Police Department and former call girl who authored the book \"From Cop to Call Girl\" about her experiences, ran on the Libertarian Party ticket for California lieutenant governor in 1986 and was actively supported by the party. Mark Hinkle described her as being the most able \"of any Libertarian\" \"to generate publicity\". The Massachusetts Libertarian Party was one of the few organizations to support a 1980s campaign to repeal prostitution laws.\n\nThe Libertarian Party affirms an individual's right recognized by the Second Amendment to keep and bear arms and opposes the prosecution of individuals for exercising their rights of self-defense. They oppose all laws at any level of government requiring registration of or restricting the ownership, manufacture, or transfer or sale of firearms or ammunition.\n\nThe Libertarian party affirms an individuals right to privacy through reforms that would give back rights of the Fourth Amendment of the United State of America's Bill of Rights to the citizens. Often this is coincided with a citizens right against covert surveillance by the government of their privacy.\n\nLibertarians generally prefer an attitude of mutual respect between all nations. Libertarians believe that free trade engenders positive international relationships. Libertarian candidates have promised to cut foreign aid and withdraw American troops from the Middle East and other areas throughout the world.\n\nThe Libertarian Party has not officially commented on their position of the status of Puerto Rico. However, it did publish an article in which Bruce Majors, the party's 2012 candidate for the District of Columbia's at-large congressional district delegate election, expressed support to \"put a referendum on the ballot\" and \"let residents decide whether they would like to be a state\" and thereby give residents of Washington, D.C. and Puerto Rico greater control over their level of taxation.\n\nThe debate that has survived the longest is referred to by libertarians as the anarchist–minarchist debate. In 1974, anarchists and minarchists within the party agreed to officially take no position on whether or not government should exist at all and to not advocate either particular view. This agreement has become known as the Dallas Accord, having taken place at the party's convention that year in Dallas, Texas.\n\nAt times, members who emphasize more radical libertarian principles, even at the expense of electoral success, have dominated the party. At other times, more moderate parts of the party are ascendant and focus on running campaigns with mainstream appeal.\n\nLibertarian members often cite the departure of Ed Crane (of the Cato Institute, a libertarian think tank) as a key turning point in the early party history. Crane (who in the 1970s had been the party's first Executive Director) and some of his allies resigned from the party in 1983 when their preferred candidates for national committee seats lost in the elections at the national convention. Others like Mary Ruwart say that despite this apparent victory of those favoring radicalism, the party has for decades been slowly moving away from those ideals.\n\nIn the mid-2000s, groups such as the Libertarian Party Reform Caucus generally advocated revising the party's platform, eliminating or altering the membership statement and focusing on a politics-oriented approach aimed at presenting libertarianism to voters in what they deemed a \"less threatening\" manner. LPRadicals emerged in response and was active at the 2008 and 2010 Libertarian National Conventions. In its most recent incarnation, the Libertarian Party Radical Caucus was founded with the stated goal to \"support the re-radicalization of the LP.\"\n\nAt the 2016 Libertarian National Convention, the Radical Caucus endorsed Darryl W. Perry for President and Will Coley for Vice President, who respectively won 7% and 10% of the vote on the first ballot, both taking fourth place. Though not explicitly organized as such, most self-identified pragmatists or moderates supported the nomination of Gary Johnson for President and Bill Weld for Vice President. Johnson and Weld were both nominated on the second ballot with a narrow majority after having both placed just shy of the required 50% on the first ballots. After the convention, the Libertarian Pragmatist Caucus (\"LPC\") was founded and organized with the goal \"[t]o promote realistic, pragmatic, and practical libertarian candidates and solutions.\" LPC supported Nicholas Sarwark in his successful bid for re-election as Chair of the party's national committee at the 2018 convention in New Orleans. \n\nIn 1999, a working group of leading Libertarian Party activists proposed to reformat and retire the platform to serve as a guide for legislative projects (its main purpose to that point) and create a series of custom platforms on current issues for different purposes, including the needs of the growing number of Libertarians in office. The proposal was incorporated in a new party-wide strategic plan and a joint platform-program committee proposed a reformatted project platform that isolated talking points on issues, principles and solutions as well as an array of projects for adaptation. This platform, along with a short Summary for talking points, was approved in 2004. Confusion arose when prior to the 2006 convention there was a push to repeal or substantially rewrite the Platform, at the center of which were groups such as the Libertarian Reform Caucus. Their agenda was partially successful in that the current platform was much shortened (going from 61 to 15 planks – 11 new planks and 4 retained from the old platform) over the previous one.\n\nMembers differ as to the reasons why the changes were relatively more drastic than any platform actions at previous conventions. Some delegates voted for changes so the party could appeal to a wider audience, while others simply thought the entire document needed an overhaul. It was also pointed out that the text of the existing platform was not provided to the delegates, making many reluctant to vote to retain the planks when the existing language was not provided for review.\n\nNot all party members approved of the changes, some believing them to be a setback to libertarianism and an abandonment of what they see as the most important purpose of the Libertarian Party.\n\nAt the 2008 Libertarian National Convention, the changes went even further with the approval of an entirely revamped platform. Much of the new platform recycles language from pre-millennial platforms. While the planks were renamed, most address ideas found in earlier platforms and run no longer than three to four sentences.\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "18400076", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18400076", "title": "List of paleoconservative organizations", "text": "List of paleoconservative organizations\n\nThe following is a list of organizations with paleoconservative ideas. Paleoconservatism is a term for a conservative political philosophy found primarily in the United States stressing tradition, limited government, civil society, anti-colonialism and anti-federalism, along with religious, regional, national and Western identity.\n"}
{"id": "45454388", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45454388", "title": "Malaysian Indian United Party", "text": "Malaysian Indian United Party\n\nMalaysian Indian United Party (, , abbrev: MIUP) is a political party representing the Indian community in Malaysia. MIUP was founded and registered on 14 September 2007 and then launched on 25 November 2007 by Nallakaruppan Solaimalai or K.S. Nallakaruppan, who is better known as Anwar Ibrahim's 'tennis partner' after his resignation from Parti Keadilan Rakyat (PKR) because of his fallout with Anwar regarding the candidacy for the Ijok by-election, 2007.\n\nMIUP supports and maintains friendly relations to the then governing Barisan Nasional (BN) although it is not an official member of the coalition but seeks to be admitted into the coalition.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "56831396", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56831396", "title": "Maria Butina", "text": "Maria Butina\n\nMaria Valeryevna Butina (; born November 10, 1988; also transliterated as Mariia) is a Russian political activist alleged to have acted as an unregistered Russian agent, under 18 U.S.C. §951, in the United States. She is the founder of \"\", a Russian group. In April 2018, Butina told the Senate Intelligence Committee that Konstantin Nikolaev, a Russian billionaire, provided funding for the group. Beginning in 2011, she worked for Aleksandr Torshin, a former member of the Federation Council, a member of Vladimir Putin’s United Russia party, and a deputy governor of the Central Bank of Russia.\n\nIn July 2018, while residing in Washington D.C., Butina was arrested by the Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI) and charged with acting as an agent of the Russian Federation without notifying the attorney general under 18 U.S.C. §951 but not the Foreign Agents Registration Act as was misreported in the media. \"Slate\" magazine called the government accusation misleading and the charges murky. Butina has had an unusually high number of visits from Russian officials.\nHer father wrote: \"She is subjected to sophisticated torture: for two weeks in prison she was not allowed to sleep, being woken every 15 minutes; she was also kept in a cold facility and denied medical care; subjected to humiliating strip searches, as well as to repeated and lengthy periods of administrative segregation, which, in total, have amounted to nearly three months.\"\n\nButina was born in Barnaul, Altai Krai, Russia, on November 10, 1988. Her mother was an engineer, and her father was an entrepreneur who established a furniture manufacturing business in Barnaul. She grew up in the Siberian taiga, where her father introduced her to guns and taught her to hunt. Butina said: \"It is a rare Siberian who can imagine himself without a rifle in the home.\"\n\nShe studied political science at Altai State University in Barnaul and also received a teaching degree. At 19, she was elected to the Public Council of Altai Krai in the last direct election for the Council.\n\nButina built a furniture retail business in Altai Krai when she was 21. In 2011, she moved to Moscow and sold six of her seven furniture stores to start an advertising agency. That year, she participated in the Youth Primaries organized by the Young Guard of United Russia, the youth wing of the United Russia party, which rules the Russian Federation.\n\nAlso in 2011, Butina founded Right to Bear Arms, described as a Russian gun-rights organization that lobbied to change Russia's strict gun control laws. She began traveling back and forth to the U.S., initially with Aleksandr Torshin, who was then a Senator in the Federation Council of Russia and a leading member of United Russia. He had hired her as his \"special assistant\" that year. In 2012, they lobbied the Federation Council to expand gun rights. Butina resigned from her position as the head of Right to Bear Arms in late 2014. In 2015, Butina said that Right to Bear Arms had 10,000 members and 76 offices in Russia.\n\nIn 2013 she met Republican political operative Paul Erickson in Russia. The two became close, started dating, and eventually moved in together. In 2015 she emailed him a description of her plan to help the Republicans win the 2016 elections through the NRA.\n\nIn August 2016, she moved to the United States on a student visa, and enrolled as a graduate student at American University in Washington, D.C. Torshin became deputy governor of the Central Bank of Russia in January 2015, and she worked as his special assistant until May 2017. In 2017, Butina told \"The Washington Post\" that she never worked for the Russian government.\n\nIn February 2016, Butina and Erickson began a South Dakota business, Bridges LLC. Erickson later said the company was established in case Butina needed any monetary assistance for her graduate studies, which Butina commenced in mid-2016 American University in Washington. In 2018, she completed a masters degree in international relations.\n\nTorshin and Butina established a cooperative relationship between the National Rifle Association (NRA) and Right to Bear Arms. Torshin has attended NRA annual meetings in the United States since at least 2011. Following the 2011 meeting, then NRA President David Keene expressed his support for Torshin's \"endeavors\" and extended an invitation to the 2012 meeting. Torshin also attended NRA annual meetings in 2012 and 2013. In November 2013, Keene was a guest at the conference of the Right to Bear Arms in Moscow.\n\nButina and Torshin attended the 2014 NRA annual meeting as special guests of former NRA president Keene. Butina attended the Women's Leadership Luncheon at the 2014 meeting as a guest of former NRA president Sandy Froman. Butina presented to then NRA president Jim Porter a plaque from Right to Bear Arms. Afterwards, she tweeted \"Mission accomplished.\" As Keene's guest, Butina rang the NRA's Liberty Bell, saying, \"To the right to bear arms for citizens of the whole world.\" Butina and Torshin also attended the 2015 NRA annual convention.\n\nIn 2015, a number of NRA officials attended Right to Bear Arms's annual gun conference in Russia. Among them were Keene, gun manufacturer and NRA first vice president Pete Brownell, conservative American political operative Paul Erickson, and Milwaukee County sheriff David Clarke. One of their hosts was Russian Deputy Prime Minister Dmitry Rogozin, who in 2014 was sanctioned by the White House following Russia's invasion of Ukraine. Clarke's trip cost $40,000, with all expenses paid by the NRA, Pete Brownell (an NRA board member and CEO of a gun-parts supply company) and Right to Bear Arms. According to a disclosure Clarke filed, Right to Bear Arms paid $6,000 to cover his meals, lodging, transportation and other expenses. During the meeting, Clarke met the Russian foreign minister and attended a conference at which Torshin spoke. In November 2016, Torshin tweeted that he and Butina were lifetime NRA members.\n\nButina has attempted to develop ties to conservative American politics. In a supporting affidavit to the government's support for pre-trial detention following her indictment in \"United States of America v. Mariia Butina\", the FBI stated that she had successfully sought ties to the Republican Party, where it is referred to as \"POLITICAL PARTY 1\". According to \"The Daily Beast\", she has presented herself as a \"Russian central bank staffer, a leading gun rights advocate, a 'representative of the Russian Federation,' a Washington, D.C. graduate student, a journalist, and a connection between Team Trump and Russia\" in order to gain access to \"high-level contacts\" in Washington, D.C. At the 2014 NRA annual meeting, Butina took selfies with Louisiana Governor Bobby Jindal and former U.S. Senator and 2016 presidential candidate Rick Santorum. At the 2015 NRA annual meeting, she met Wisconsin Governor Scott Walker, and in July 2015, she was present at the launch of Walker's 2016 presidential campaign.\n\nIn 2015, Torshin, then the Russian Central Bank deputy governor, and Butina met the Treasury undersecretary for international affairs, Nathan Sheets to discuss U.S.-Russian economic relations. Separately, they also met with a Federal Reserve vice chairman, Stanley Fischer and with a State Department official.\n\nIn a June 2015 article published in \"The National Interest\", a conservative American international affairs magazine, just before Trump announced his candidacy for president, she urged better relations between the United States and Russia, saying, \"It may take the election of a Republican to the White House in 2016 to improve relations between the Russian Federation and the United States.\" Her biography on the article did not mention that she worked for the Russian government. The next month, Butina attended FreedomFest, where Trump gave a speech, and asked him from the audience about ending U.S. sanctions against Russia, to which he replied, \"I don't think you'd need the sanctions.\" Butina hosted a birthday party attended by Erickson and Trump campaign aides shortly after the 2016 election.\n\nIn May 2016, Erickson sent an email with the subject line \"Kremlin Connection\" to Trump campaign adviser Rick Dearborn, asking Dearborn and then-Senator Jeff Sessions for advice on setting up a meeting between Trump and Putin at an annual NRA convention.\n\nWhen Maria Butina was first arrested prosecutors accused her of using sex to gain power in a manner similar to the movie \"Red Sparrow\" but latter backed away from that accusation. In a September 9, 2018 filing prosecutors admit they may have interpreted a joke she made and that she did not in fact conspire to use sex to attain power.\n\nOn July 15, 2018, Butina was arrested in Washington, D.C. and charged with acting in the United States as an agent of a foreign government; specifically the Russian Federation, without prior notification to the Attorney General, a conspiracy to commit an offense against the United States, to wit, 18 U.S.C. §951 (Foreign Relations, Agents of foreign governments), in violation of 18 U.S.C. §371 (Conspiracy). When originally arrested many main stream media mistakenly reported she was charged with a violation of the Foreign Agents Registration Act (22 U.S.C. §11 Foreign Agents AND Propaganda). The website Lawfare pointed out that \"the Justice Department’s National Security Division—which approves all FARA and Section 951 charges—takes the difference between the two crimes seriously.\" Her attorney stated \"The allegations of the indictment are essentially that her only illegal act was not registering.\"\n\nOn July 18, Butina pleaded not guilty, and a District Court judge ordered her jailed pending trial. She is also said to be cooperating in a federal fraud investigation in South Dakota.\n\nButina's attorneys and federal prosecutors declared in a November 16, 2018 court filing that they had entered into plea negotiations.\n\nAccording to the affidavit in support of the complaint, from as early as 2015 and continuing through at least February 2017, Butina worked at the direction of a high-level official in the Russian government, widely believed to be Torshin. The court filings detail the Russian official’s and Butina’s efforts for Butina to act as an agent of Russia inside the United States by developing relationships with U.S. persons and infiltrating organizations having influence in American Republican and conservative politics—such as the National Rifle Association, the National Prayer Breakfast and conservative religious organizations—for the purpose of advancing the interests of the Russian Federation. The filings also describe certain actions taken by Butina to further this effort during multiple visits from Russia and, later, when she entered and resided in the United States on a student visa. The filings allege that she undertook her activities without officially disclosing the fact that she was acting as an agent of Russian government, as required by law.\n\nButina, Torshin, and Erickson have been subjects of an investigation by the Senate Intelligence Committee into Russian interference in the 2016 United States elections. Erickson is referred to in Butina's indictment as \"Person 1.\" In addition, George D. O'Neill, Jr., a conservative writer and Rockefeller heir, is \"Person 2.\" Torshin has also been the subject of a probe by the Federal Bureau of Investigation into whether the Russian government attempted to illegally funnel money to the NRA in order to help Trump win the presidency. The FBI began to monitor Butina in August 2016 when she moved to the United States on a F-1 student visa. Rather than confront her immediately, the organization chose to track her movements and gather information of who she was meeting, and what her end goals were to be.\n\nAt the request of prosecutors, the judge imposed a \"gag order\" preventing both the prosecution and defense from speaking publicly about the case.\n\nOn July 18, Russia's Ministry of Foreign Affairs said that Butina's arrest was designed to undermine the \"positive results\" of the Helsinki summit between US President Donald Trump and Russian President Vladimir Putin, notwithstanding that she was arrested a day before the Trump-Putin meeting. Butina's father has called the accusations against her \"psychopathy and a witch-hunt\".\n\nRep. Thomas Massie (R–KY) commented that \"Unfortunately, what began as only Russophobic rhetoric seems to have turned into a witch hunt, as President Trump calls it. For example, the current hysteria may have motivated the recent arrest and indictment of Maria Butina, a former Russian graduate student at American University in Washington, D.C.  Unlike many accused of violent crimes, Butina (who has not been accused of harming anyone) was denied bail, and is now reportedly being held in solitary confinement in federal prison until her trial.\"\n\nPat Buchanan, noting that \"History repeats itself first as tragedy, then as farce,\" compared the comparatively unimportant Maria Butina to prosecutions during the Cold War saying \"Who do we have today to match Hiss and the Rosenbergs? A 29-year-old redheaded Russian Annie Oakley named Maria Butina, accused of infiltrating the National Rifle Association and the National Prayer Breakfast.\"\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3205335", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3205335", "title": "Molly Melching", "text": "Molly Melching\n\nMolly Melching is the founder and Creative Director of Tostan (meaning \"breakthrough\" in the Wolof language), a non-governmental organization (NGO) headquartered in Dakar, Senegal whose mission it is to empower African communities to bring about sustainable development and positive social transformation based on respect of human rights. Tostan and Melching have gained international notice for their work with partner communities to encourage the abandonment of female genital cutting and child/forced marriage in Senegal, and other countries across West and East Africa. \n\nMelching's expertise is in developing educational materials for use at the community level in Africa, and she helped create the Tostan Community Empowerment Program (CEP). Melching's work along with that of Senegalese communities has also contributed to several innovative community development and communication techniques including the model of organized diffusion of information and the use of the public declaration for the abandonment of FGC and child/forced marriage.\n\nTo date, many international films, radio programs, newspaper and magazine articles have been produced on Tostan, the Community Empowerment Program, and Molly herself.\n\nWhile a student at the University of Dakar in 1974, Molly developed an interest in working with children. She wrote an illustrated children’s book, Anniko, which was published by the New African Editions (NEA). In November 1976, she joined the Peace Corps on an individual placement to continue developing and publishing books for Senegalese children tailored to their culture and environment. To accomplish this, Molly created the \"Demb ak Tey\" (Yesterday and Today) Center, which opened in the African Cultural Center, and served street children in the most populated area of Dakar, the Medina. Using songs, stories, proverbs, theater and other oral African traditions, Molly and her Senegalese team promoted children's literature pertaining to West African culture. Seeing the popularity of traditional African stories and their potential as a vehicle for education, Molly began a weekly radio program in Wolof, a major national language of Senegal. By including messages on health and the environment, the radio program reached thousands of families with relevant information for improving their lives.\n\nIn 1982, Molly was awarded a grant from the Spencer Foundation to continue her activities, which encouraged her to remain in Senegal. She moved the children's center to the village of Saam Njaay in the region of Thiès. In collaboration with community members and with funding from USAID, she and her Senegalese team developed a basic, nonformal education program for rural populations based on their traditions and culture. \n\nMolly began collaborating with UNICEF Senegal in 1988 to improve and expand this nonformal education program to other languages and regions of Senegal. Molly focused on women’s distinctive need for literacy training and other kinds of basic education. With UNICEF’s support, the program was extended to thousands of women throughout the country and was also adapted for at-risk, out-of-school adolescents using a basic life skills approach.\n\nIn 1991, Molly took the collective lessons and pedagogies developed in Saam Njaay and created a 501(c)(3) nonprofit organization, Tostan. Tostan's centerpiece is the program Molly and others developed in Saam Njaay, Senegal: The Community Empowerment Program (CEP) is targeted at both adult and adolescent learners, and is always delivered in local languages. The nonformal education approach is based on human rights, and is divided into two modules: the Kobi (meaning \"to till the soil\"), covering democracy, human rights, problem-solving skills, health and hygiene; and the Aawde (meaning \"to plant the seed\"), covering local language literacy, small enterprise development, and mathematics.\n\nOver the years, the CEP has continued to evolve. Recent additions have been integrated into the CEP, including the Reinforcement of Parental Practices module, which works with parents to stimulate early childhood development and better prepare children for school, and the Peace and Security project, which seeks to establish links between community-led initiatives promoting peace, and regional policy makers.\n\nTostan participants have begun health and hygiene improvement projects leading to the reduction of maternal and infant mortality rates. They have reduced violence against women; dramatically increased rates of vaccinations and pre- and post-natal consultation; and led campaigns to enroll girls in school and register thousands of children who had no official birth certificates. They have even begun implementing income generating activities. Women now participate in decision-making processes and are emerging as leaders.\n\nOn July 31, 1997, one group of Tostan participants from the village of Malicounda Bambara decided to abandon the ancient practice of female genital cutting (FGC) in their community. Their decision was motivated by the understanding that FGC is harmful to the health of girls and women, violates their human rights, and is not in accordance with their religious and cultural values. As of November 2016, over 7,700 communities in the countries Tostan works have publicly declared their abandonment of FGC and child/forced marriage, including 23 villages in Burkina Faso in partnership with the NGO Mwangaza Action. FGC continues to be practiced in 28 countries of Africa and is required in many ethnic groups for girls to marry and become respected members of the community.\n\nIn 1995, UNESCO chose Tostan as one of the most innovative education programs throughout the world and published a brochure on the Tostan experience. In 1997, Ms. Hillary Clinton, wife of then President Bill Clinton, visited a Tostan village and in 1998, both Hillary and The President paid a special visit to the Tostan program. In 1999, Molly Melching was awarded the University of Illinois Alumni Humanitarian Prize and in 2002, the Sargent Shriver Distinguished Award for Humanitarian Service at the 40th Celebration of the Peace Corps. \n\nIn October 2003, World Health Organization chose Tostan’s education approach as a “Best Practice Model” for community development and ending FGC, calling for further replication and dissemination of the model to other African nations. In 2005, Tostan won the Anna Lindh Prize for Human Rights, and in 2007 Tostan won two awards: the UNESCO King Sejong Prize for Literacy, and the Conrad N. Hilton Humanitarian Prize, the largest humanitarian prize in the world. In 2010, Tostan was recognized by the Skoll Foundation with the Skoll Award for Social Entrepreneurship. In 2012, Tostan received an ‘Award in Action’ by the Cécilia Attias Foundation for Women, recognizing their work in improving health systems and maternal care at a community level. Molly Melching was presented with a ‘Women of Impact’ award at the 4th Annual Women in the World Summit in 2013.\n\nIn 2015, Molly received--on behalf of Tostan--the Thomas J Dodd Prize in International Justice and Human Rights, along with President Bill Clinton. Melching was awarded the Jury Special Prix in Individual Philanthropy from the BNP Paribas Foundation, and the 2015 University of Illinois Humanitarian Award.\nA book about Molly Melching’s work, \"However Long the Night: Molly Melching’s Journey to Help Millions of African Women and Girls Triumph\", was written by Aimee Molloy and published on April 30, 2013. The book shares Molly’s personal experiences that brought her to Africa nearly 40 years ago, the inspiring people she has met along the way, and why she decided to stay. It also recounts Tostan’s founding and the community-led movement for transformative social change being seen in Africa.\n\n"}
{"id": "21181335", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21181335", "title": "Mutualization", "text": "Mutualization\n\nMutualization or mutualisation is the process by which a joint stock company changes legal form to a mutual organization or a cooperative, so that the majority of the stock is owned by employees or customers. Demutualization or privatization is the reverse process. \n\n"}
{"id": "19629830", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19629830", "title": "Nanny state", "text": "Nanny state\n\nNanny state is a conservative term of British origin that conveys a view that a government or its policies are overprotective or interfering unduly with personal choice. The term \"nanny state\" likens government to the role that a nanny has in child rearing. An early usage of the term comes from Conservative British Member of Parliament Iain Macleod who referred to \"what I like to call the nanny state\" in the 3 December 1965 edition of \"The Spectator\".\n\nThe term has been used to describe the policies of both federal and state governments. Canadian journalist and magazine publisher Tyler Brûlé argued that Australian cities were becoming over-sanitised and the country was on the verge of becoming the world's dumbest nation. This was blamed on the removal of personal responsibility and the increase in the number and scope of health and safety laws. Liberal Democrats senator David Leyonhjelm also used the term when launching an Australian Senate enquiry into laws and regulations that restrict personal choice \"for the individual's own good\". The term has also been used to criticise mandatory bicycle helmet laws, gun control laws, prohibitions on alcohol in public places, plain packaging for cigarettes and pub/club lockout laws.\n\nThe term was used by the New Zealand National Party to describe the policies of their political opponents, the Fifth Labour Government, who were in power from 1999 until 2008. The child policies of the National Party's Paula Bennett were later given the 'nanny state' label by a Māori Community Law Service manager. The Queenstown Lakes District Council recently proposed restrictions on residents renting their room's on the short term rental site, Airbnb, prompted criticism from the company, describing the move as a \"nanny state\".\n\nThe city state of Singapore has a reputation as a \"nanny state\", owing to the considerable number of government regulations and restrictions on its citizens' lives. Former Prime Minister Lee Kuan Yew, the architect of the modern Singapore, observed: \"If Singapore is a nanny state, then I am proud to have fostered one\". In an interview in the \"Straits Times\" in 1987, Lee said:\n\nI am often accused of interfering in the private lives of citizens. Yes, if I did not, had I not done that, we wouldn’t be here today. And I say without the slightest remorse, that we wouldn’t be here, we would not have made economic progress, if we had not intervened on very personal matters–who your neighbour is, how you live, the noise you make, how you spit, or what language you use. We decide what is right. Never mind what the people think.\n\nIn 2004, King's Fund, a think tank, conducted a survey of more than 1,000 people and found that most favoured policies that combatted behaviour such as eating a poor diet and public smoking—this was reported by the BBC as the public favouring a nanny state.\n\nThe British Labour Party politician Margaret Hodge has defended policies she acknowledged had been labelled as \"nanny state\", saying at a speech to the Institute for Public Policy Research on November 26, 2004 that \"some may call it the nanny state but I call it a force for good\".\n\nThe \"Soft Drinks Industry Levy\", the UK's sugary drink tax proposed in 2016 and effective from 2018, was described by Member of Parliament Will Quince as \"patronizing, regressive and the nanny state at its worst\".\n\nAlthough the term is undefined in the Merriam-Webster dictionary, it has entered use in the United States over the past decade by some political commentators. For example, Dean Baker of the Center for Economic and Policy Research think tank used the term in 2006 to describe conservative policies that protect the income of the rich.\n\nConversely, the term is also used in an at-large sense against the legislative tendencies of contemporary liberal political ideology, with examples such as progressive banishment of tobacco smoking and the enactment of mandatory bicycle helmet laws.\n\nDavid Harsanyi used the term to describe food labeling regulations, the legal drinking age and socially conservative government policies. Another example of criticism was the response to New York City Mayor Michael Bloomberg's May 2012 proposal to restrict the sale of soft drinks in venues, restaurants and sidewalk carts to 16 ounces.\n\n"}
{"id": "675582", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=675582", "title": "New antisemitism", "text": "New antisemitism\n\nNew antisemitism is the concept that a new form of antisemitism has developed in the late 20th and early 21st centuries, tending to manifest itself as opposition to Zionism and the State of Israel. The concept is included in some definitions of antisemitism, such as the Working Definition of Antisemitism and the 3D test of antisemitism.\n\nThe concept generally posits that in the late 20th and early 21st centuries much of what is purported to be criticism of Israel by various individuals and world bodies is in fact tantamount to demonization, and that together with an alleged international resurgence of attacks on Jews and Jewish symbols, and an increased acceptance of antisemitic beliefs in public discourse, such demonization represents an evolution in the appearance of antisemitic beliefs.\n\nProponents of the concept argue that anti-Zionism, anti-Americanism, anti-globalization, Third-Worldism, and demonization of Israel, or double standards applied to its conduct, may be linked to antisemitism, or constitute disguised antisemitism, particularly when emanating simultaneously from the far-left, Islamism, and the far-right. Many proponents claim that some forms of anti-Zionism, under this criteria, can be considered new antisemitism.\n\nCritics of the concept argue that it conflates anti-Zionism with antisemitism, defines legitimate criticism of Israel too narrowly and demonization too broadly, trivializes the meaning of antisemitism, and exploits antisemitism in order to silence political debate.\n\nFrench philosopher Pierre-André Taguieff has argued that the first wave of what he describes as \"la nouvelle judéophobie\" emerged in the Arab-Muslim world and the Soviet sphere following the 1967 Six-Day War, citing papers by Jacques Givet (1968) and historian Léon Poliakov (1969) in which the idea of a new antisemitism rooted in anti-Zionism was discussed. He argues that anti-Jewish themes centered on the demonical figures of Israel and what he calls \"fantasy-world Zionism\": that Jews plot together, seek to conquer the world, and are imperialistic and bloodthirsty, which gave rise to the reactivation of stories about ritual murder and the poisoning of food and water supplies.\n\nWriting in the American Jewish Congress' \"Congress Bi-Weekly\" in 1973, the Foreign Minister of Israel, Abba Eban, identified anti-Zionism as ‘the new anti-Semitism’, saying:[R]ecently we have witnessed the rise of the new left which identifies Israel with the establishment, with acquisition, with smug satisfaction, with, in fact, all the basic enemies [...] Let there be no mistake: the new left is the author and the progenitor of the new anti-Semitism. One of the chief tasks of any dialogue with the Gentile world is to prove that the distinction between anti-Semitism and anti-Zionism is not a distinction at all. Anti-Zionism is merely the new anti-Semitism. The old classic anti-Semitism declared that equal rights belong to all individuals within the society, except the Jews. The new anti-Semitism says that the right to establish and maintain an independent national sovereign state is the prerogative of all nations, so long as they happen not to be Jewish. And when this right is exercised not by the Maldive Islands, not by the state of Gabon, not by Barbados… but by the oldest and most authentic of all nationhoods, then this is said to be exclusivism, particularism, and a flight of the Jewish people from its universal mission.\n\nIn 1974, Arnold Forster and Benjamin Epstein of the Anti-Defamation League published a book entitled \"The New anti-Semitism\", expressing additional concern about what they described as new manifestations of antisemitism coming from radical left, radical right, and \"pro-Arab\" figures in the U.S. Forster and Epstein argued that it took the form of indifference to the fears of the Jewish people, apathy in dealing with anti-Jewish bias, and an inability to understand the importance of Israel to Jewish survival.\nReviewing Forster and Epstein's work in \"Commentary\", Earl Raab, founding director of the Nathan Perlmutter Institute for Jewish Advocacy at Brandeis University, argued that a \"new anti-Semitism\" was indeed emerging in America, in the form of opposition to the collective rights of the Jewish people, but he criticized Forster and Epstein for conflating it with anti-Israel bias. Allan Brownfeld writes that Forster and Epstein's new definition of antisemitism trivialized the concept by turning it into \"a form of political blackmail\" and \"a weapon with which to silence any criticism of either Israel or U.S. policy in the Middle East,\" while Edward S. Shapiro, in \"A Time for Healing: American Jewry Since World War II\", has written that \"Forster and Epstein implied that the new anti-Semitism was the inability of Gentiles to love Jews and Israel enough.\"\n\nHistorian Robert Wistrich addressed the issue in a 1984 lecture delivered in the home of Israeli President Chaim Herzog, in which he argued that a \"new anti-Semitic anti-Zionism\" was emerging, distinguishing features of which were the equation of Zionism with Nazism and the belief that Zionists had actively collaborated with Nazis during World War II. He argued that such claims were prevalent in the Soviet Union, but added that similar rhetoric had been taken up by a part of the radical Left, particularly Trotskyist groups in Western Europe and America.\n\nWhen asked in 2014 if \"anti-Zionism is the new anti-Semitism\", Noam Chomsky stated:\nActually, the locus classicus, the best formulation of this, was by an ambassador to the United Nations, Abba Eban, [...] He advised the American Jewish community that they had two tasks to perform. One task was to show that criticism of the policy, what he called anti-Zionism — that means actually criticisms of the policy of the state of Israel — were anti-Semitism. That’s the first task. Second task, if the criticism was made by Jews, their task was to show that it’s neurotic self-hatred, needs psychiatric treatment. Then he gave two examples of the latter category. One was I.F. Stone. The other was me. So, we have to be treated for our psychiatric disorders, and non-Jews have to be condemned for anti-Semitism, if they’re critical of the state of Israel. That’s understandable why Israeli propaganda would take this position. I don’t particularly blame Abba Eban for doing what ambassadors are sometimes supposed to do. But we ought to understand that there is no sensible charge. No sensible charge. There’s nothing to respond to. It’s not a form of anti-Semitism. It’s simply criticism of the criminal actions of a state, period.\n\nIrwin Cotler, Professor of Law at McGill University and a scholar of human rights, has identified nine aspects of what he considers to constitute the \"new anti-Semitism\":\n\nCotler argues that classical antisemitism is discrimination against Jews as individuals whereas the new antisemitism, in contrast, \"is anchored in discrimination against the Jews as a peopleand the embodiment of that expression in Israel. In each instance, the essence of anti-Semitism is the samean assault upon whatever is the core of Jewish self-definition at any moment in time.\" This discrimination is hard to measure, because the indices governments tend to use to detect discriminationsuch as standard of living, housing, health and employmentare useful only in measuring discrimination against individuals. Hence, Cotler writes, it is difficult to show that the concept is a valid one.\n\nCotler defines \"classical or traditional anti-Semitism\" as \"the discrimination against, denial of or assault upon the rights of Jews to live as equal members of whatever host society they inhabit\" and \"new anti-Semitism\" as \"discrimination against the right of the Jewish people to live as an equal member of the family of nationsthe denial of and assault upon the Jewish people's right even to livewith Israel as the \"collective Jew among the nations.\"\n\nCotler elaborated on this position in a June 2011 interview for Israeli television. He re-iterated his view that the world is \"witnessing a new and escalating [...] and even lethal anti-Semitism\" focused on hatred of Israel, but cautioned that this type of antisemitism should not be defined in a way that precludes \"free speech\" and \"rigorous debate\" about Israel's activities. Cotler said that it is \"too simplistic to say that anti-Zionism, \"per se\", is anti-Semitic\" and argued that labelling Israel as an apartheid state, while in his view \"distasteful\", is \"still within the boundaries of argument\" and not inherently antisemitic. He continued: \"It's [when] you say, because it's an apartheid state, [that] it has to be dismantledthen [you've] crossed the line into a racist argument, or an anti-Jewish argument.\"\n\nJack Fischel, former chair of history at Millersville University of Pennsylvania, writes that new antisemitism is a new phenomenon stemming from a coalition of \"leftists, vociferously opposed to the policies of Israel, and right-wing antisemites, committed to the destruction of Israel, [who] were joined by millions of Muslims, including Arabs, who immigrated to Europe... and who brought with them their hatred of Israel in particular and of Jews in general.\" It is this new political alignment, he argues, that makes new antisemitism unique. Mark Strauss of \"Foreign Policy\" links new antisemitism to anti-globalism, describing it as \"the medieval image of the \"Christ-killing\" Jew resurrected on the editorial pages of cosmopolitan European newspapers.\"\n\nRajesh Krishnamachari, researcher with the South Asia Analysis Group, analyzed antisemitism in Iran, Turkey, Palestine, Pakistan, Malaysia, Bangladesh and Saudi Arabia and posited that the recent surge in antisemitism across the Muslim world should be attributed to political expediency of the local elite in these countries rather than to any theological imperative.\n\nThe French philosopher Pierre-André Taguieff argues that antisemitism based on racism and nationalism has been replaced by a new form based on anti-racism and anti-nationalism. He identifies some of its main features as the identification of Zionism with racism; the use of material related to Holocaust denial (such as doubts about the number of victims and allegations that there is a \"Holocaust industry\"); a discourse borrowed from third worldism, anti-imperialism, anti-colonialism, anti-Americanism and anti-globalization; and the dissemination of what he calls the \"myth\" of the \"intrinsically good Palestinianthe innocent victim \"par excellence\".\"\n\nIn early 2009, 125 parliamentarians from various countries gathered in London for the founding conference of a group called the \"Interparliamentary Coalition for Combating Anti-Semitism\" (ICCA). They suggest that while classical antisemitism \"overlaps\" modern antisemitism, it is a different phenomenon and a more dangerous one for Jews.\n\nBrian Klug, senior research fellow in philosophy at St Benet's Hall, Oxford — who gave expert testimony in February 2006 to a British parliamentary inquiry into antisemitism in the UK, and in November 2004 to the Hearing on Anti-Semitism at the German Bundestag — argues against the idea that there is a \"single, unified phenomenon\" that could be called \"new\" antisemitism. He accepts that there is reason for the Jewish community to be concerned, but argues that any increase in antisemitic incidents is attributable to classical antisemitism. Proponents of the new antisemitism concept, he writes, see an organizing principle that allows them to formulate a new concept, but it is only in terms of this concept that many of the examples cited in evidence of it count as examples in the first place. That is, the creation of the concept may be based on a circular argument or tautology. He argues that it is an unhelpful concept, because it devalues the term \"antisemitism,\" leading to widespread cynicism about the use of it. People of goodwill who support the Palestinians resent being falsely accused of antisemitism.\n\nKlug defines classical antisemitism as \"an ingrained European fantasy about Jews as Jews,\" arguing that whether Jews are seen as a race, religion, or ethnicity, and whether antisemitism comes from the right or the left, the antisemite's image of the Jew is always as \"a people set apart, not merely by their customs but by their collective character. They are arrogant, secretive, cunning, always looking to turn a profit. Loyal only to their own, wherever they go they form a state within a state, preying upon the societies in whose midst they dwell. Mysteriously powerful, their hidden hand controls the banks and the media. They will even drag governments into war if this suits their purposes. Such is the figure of 'the Jew,' transmitted from generation to generation.\"\nHe argues that although it is true that the new antisemitism incorporates the idea that antisemitism is hostility to Jews as Jews, the source of the hostility has changed; therefore, to continue using the same expression for it — antisemitism — causes confusion. Today's hostility to Jews as Jews is based on the Arab–Israeli conflict, not on ancient European fantasies. Israel proclaims itself as the state of the Jewish people, and many Jews align themselves with Israel for that very reason. It is out of this alignment that the hostility to Jews as Jews arises, rather than hostility to Israelis or to Zionists. Klug agrees that it is a prejudice, because it is a generalization about individuals; nevertheless, he argues, it is \"not rooted in the ideology of 'the Jew',\" and is therefore a different phenomenon from antisemitism.\n\nNorman Finkelstein argues that there has been no significant rise in antisemitism: \"What does the evidence show? There has been good investigation done, serious investigation. All the evidence shows there's no evidence at all for a rise of a new anti-Semitism, whether in Europe or in North America. The evidence is zero. And, in fact, there's a new book put out by an Israel stalwart. His name is Walter Laqueur, a very prominent scholar. It's called \"The Changing Face of Anti-Semitism\". It just came out, 2006, from Oxford University Press. He looks at the evidence, and he says no. There's some in Europe among the Muslim community, there's some anti-Semitism, but the notion that in the heart of European society or North American society there's anti-Semitism is preposterous. And in fact — or no, a significant rise in anti-Semitism is preposterous.\"\n\nThe 3D Test of Antisemitism is a set of criteria put forth by Natan Sharansky to distinguish legitimate criticism of Israel from antisemitism. The three Ds stand for Delegitimization of Israel, Demonization of Israel, and subjecting Israel to Double standards, each of which, according to the test, indicates antisemitism. The test is intended to draw the line between legitimate criticism towards the State of Israel, its actions and policies, and non-legitimate criticism that becomes antisemitic.\n\nEarl Raab writes that \"[t]here is a new surge of antisemitism in the world, and much prejudice against Israel is driven by such antisemitism,\" but argues that charges of antisemitism based on anti-Israel opinions generally lack credibility. He writes that \"a grave educational misdirection is imbedded in formulations suggesting that if we somehow get rid of antisemitism, we will get rid of anti-Israelism. This reduces the problems of prejudice against Israel to cartoon proportions.\" Raab describes prejudice against Israel as a \"serious breach of morality and good sense,\" and argues that it is often a bridge to antisemitism, but distinguishes it from antisemitism as such.\n\nSteven Zipperstein, professor of Jewish Culture and History at Stanford University, argues that a belief in the State of Israel's responsibility for the Arab-Israeli conflict is considered \"part of what a reasonably informed, progressive, decent person thinks.\" He argues that Jews have a tendency to see the State of Israel as a victim because they were very recently themselves \"the quintessential victims\".\n\nNorman Finkelstein argues that organizations such as the Anti-Defamation League have brought forward charges of new antisemitism at various intervals since the 1970s, \"not to fight antisemitism but rather to exploit the historical suffering of Jews in order to immunize Israel against criticism\". He writes that most evidence purporting to show a new antisemitism has been taken from organizations that are linked in some way to Israel, or that have \"a material stake in inflating the findings of anti-Semitism,\" and that some antisemitic incidents reported in recent years either did not occur or were misidentified.<ref name=\"Finkelstein66/68\">Finkelstein, Norman. \"Beyond Chutzpah: On the Misuse of Anti-Semitism and the Abuse of History\", University of California Press, 2005, p. 66–71.</ref> As an example of the misuse of the term \"antisemitism,\" he cites the European Monitoring Centre on Racism and Xenophobia's 2003 report, which included displays of the Palestinian flag, support for the PLO, and the comparisons between Israel and apartheid-era South Africa in its list of antisemitic activities and beliefs.\nHe writes that what is called the new antisemitism consists of three components: (i) \"exaggeration and fabrication\"; (ii) \"mislabeling legitimate criticism of Israeli policy\"; and (iii) \"the unjustified yet predictable spillover from criticism of Israel to Jews generally.\" He argues that Israel's apologists have denied a causal relationship between Israeli policies and hostility toward Jews, since \"if Israeli policies, and widespread Jewish support for them, evoke hostility toward Jews, it means that Israel and its Jewish supporters might themselves be causing anti-Semitism; and it might be doing so because Israel and its Jewish supporters are \"in the wrong\"\".\n\nTariq Ali, a British-Pakistani historian and political activist, argues that the concept of new antisemitism amounts to an attempt to subvert the language in the interests of the State of Israel. He writes that the campaign against \"the supposed new 'anti-semitism'\" in modern Europe is a \"cynical ploy on the part of the Israeli Government to seal off the Zionist state from any criticism of its regular and consistent brutality against the Palestinians... Criticism of Israel can not and should not be equated with anti-semitism.\" He argues that most pro-Palestinian, anti-Zionist groups that emerged after the Six-Day War were careful to observe the distinction between anti-Zionism and antisemitism.\n\nHistorian Bernard Lewis argues that the new antisemitism represents the third, or ideological, wave of antisemitism, the first two waves being religious and racial antisemitism.\n\nLewis defines antisemitism as a special case of prejudice, hatred, or persecution directed against people who are in some way different from the rest. According to Lewis, antisemitism is marked by two distinct features: Jews are judged according to a standard different from that applied to others, and they are accused of cosmic evil. He writes that what he calls the first wave of antisemitism arose with the advent of Christianity because of the Jews' rejection of Jesus as Messiah. The second wave, racial antisemitism, emerged in Spain when large numbers of Jews were forcibly converted, and doubts about the sincerity of the converts led to ideas about the importance of \"la limpieza de sangre\", purity of blood.\n\nHe associates the third wave with the Arabs and writes that it arose only in part because of the establishment of the State of Israel. Until the 19th century, Muslims had regarded Jews with what Lewis calls \"amused, tolerant superiority\"—they were seen as physically weak, cowardly and unmilitary—and although Jews living in Muslim countries were not treated as equals, they were shown a certain amount of respect. The Western form of antisemitism—what Lewis calls \"the cosmic, satanic version of Jew hatred\"—arrived in the Middle East in several stages, beginning with Christian missionaries in the 19th century and continued to grow slowly into the 20th century up to the establishment of the Third Reich. He writes that it increased because of the humiliation of the Israeli military victories of 1948 and 1967.\n\nInto this mix entered the United Nations. Lewis argues that the international public response and the United Nations' handling of the 1948 refugee situation convinced the Arab world that discrimination against Jews was acceptable. When the ancient Jewish community in East Jerusalem was evicted and its monuments desecrated or destroyed, they were offered no help. Similarly, when Jewish refugees fled or were driven out of Arab countries, no help was offered, but elaborate arrangements were made for Arabs who fled or were driven out of the area that became Israel. All the Arab governments involved in the conflict announced that they would not admit Israelis of any religion into their territories, and that they would not give visas to Jews, no matter which country they were citizens of. Lewis argues that the failure of the United Nations to protest sent a clear message to the Arab world.\n\nHe writes that this third wave of antisemitism has in common with the first wave that Jews are able to be part of it. With religious antisemitism, Jews were able to distance themselves from Judaism, and Lewis writes that some even reached high rank within the church and the Inquisition. With racial antisemitism, this was not possible, but with the new, ideological, antisemitism, Jews are once again able to join the critics. The new antisemitism also allows non-Jews, he argues, to criticize or attack Jews without feeling overshadowed by the crimes of the Nazis.\n\nYehuda Bauer, Professor of Holocaust Studies at the Hebrew University of Jerusalem, considers the concept \"new antisemitism\" to be false, since it is in fact old antisemitism that remains latent and recurs whenever it is triggered. In his view, the current trigger is the Israeli situation, and if a compromise were achieved there antisemitism would decline but not disappear.\n\nDina Porat, professor at Tel Aviv University says that, while in principle there is no new antisemitism, we can speak of antisemitism in a new envelope. Otherwise Porat speaks of a new and violent form of antisemitism in Western Europe starting from after the Second Intifada.\n\nHoward Jacobson, a British novelist and journalist, calls this phenomenon \"Jew-hating pure and simple, the Jew-hating which many of us have always suspected was the only explanation for the disgust that contorts and disfigures faces when the mere word Israel crops up in conversation.\"\n\nAntony Lerman, writing in the Israeli newspaper \"Ha'aretz\" in September 2008, argues that the concept of a \"new antisemitism\" has brought about \"a revolutionary change in the discourse about anti-Semitism\". He writes that most contemporary discussions concerning antisemitism have become focused on issues concerning Israel and Zionism, and that the equation of anti-Zionism with antisemitism has become for many a \"new orthodoxy\". He adds that this redefinition has often resulted in \"Jews attacking other Jews for their alleged anti-Semitic anti-Zionism\". While Lerman accepts that exposing alleged Jewish antisemitism is \"legitimate in principle\", he adds that the growing literature in this field \"exceeds all reason\"; the attacks are often vitriolic, and encompass views that are not inherently anti-Zionist.\n\nLerman argues that this redefinition has had unfortunate repercussions. He writes that serious scholarly research into contemporary antisemitism has become \"virtually non-existent\", and that the subject is now most frequently studied and analyzed by \"people lacking any serious expertise in the subject, whose principal aim is to excoriate Jewish critics of Israel and to promote the \"anti-Zionism = anti-Semitism\" equation. Lerman concludes that this redefinition has ultimately served to stifle legitimate discussion, and that it cannot create a basis on which to fight antisemitism.\n\nPeter Beaumont, writing in \"The Observer\", agrees that proponents of the concept of \"new antisemitism\" have attempted to co-opt anti-Jewish sentiment and attacks by some European Muslims as a way to silence opposition to the policies of the Israeli government. \"[C]riticise Israel,\" he writes, \"and you are an anti-Semite just as surely as if you were throwing paint at a synagogue in Paris.\"\n\nScholars including Werner Bergmann, Simon Schama, Alan Johnson, David Hirsh and Anthony Julius have described a distinctively 21st century form of antisemitic anti-Zionism characterized by left-wing hostility to Jews.\n\nThe European Monitoring Centre on Racism and Xenophobia (EUMC) (superseded in 2007 by the Fundamental Rights Agency) noted an upswing in antisemitic incidents in France, Germany, Austria, Sweden, the United Kingdom, Belgium, and The Netherlands between July 2003 and December 2004. In September 2004, the European Commission against Racism and Intolerance, a part of the Council of Europe, called on its member nations to ensure that anti-racist criminal law covers antisemitism, and in 2005, the EUMC offered a discussion paper on a working definition of antisemitism in an attempt to enable a standard definition to be used for data collection: It defined antisemitism as \"a certain perception of Jews, which may be expressed as hatred towards Jews. Rhetorical and physical manifestations of antisemitism are directed towards Jews and non-Jewish individuals and/or their property, towards Jewish community institutions and religious facilities.\" The paper included “Examples of the ways in which anti-Semitism manifests itself with regard to the state of Israel taking into account the overall context could include\"\n\nThe EUMC added that criticism of Israel cannot be regarded as antisemitism so long as it is \"similar to that leveled against any other country.\"\n\nThe discussion paper was never adopted by the EU as a working definition, although it was posted on the EUMC website until 2013 when it was removed during a clear-out of non-official documents.\n\nIn France, Interior Minister Dominique de Villepin commissioned a report on racism and antisemitism from Jean-Christophe Rufin, president of Action Against Hunger and former vice-president of Médecins Sans Frontières, in which Rufin challenges the perception that the new antisemitism in France comes exclusively from North African immigrant communities and the far right.\n\nReporting in October 2004, Rufin writes that \"[t]he new anti-Semitism appears more heterogeneous,\" and identifies what he calls a new and \"subtle\" form of antisemitism in \"radical anti-Zionism\" as expressed by far-left and anti-globalization groups, in which criticism of Jews and Israel is used as a pretext to \"legitimize the armed Palestinian conflict.\"\n\nIn June 2011, Chief Rabbi of the United Kingdom, Jonathan Sacks (Lord Sacks), said that basis for the new antisemitism was the 2001 Durban Conference. Rabbi Sacks also said that the new antisemitism \"unites radical Islamists with human-rights NGOs—the right wing and the left wing—against a common enemy, the State of Israel.\"\n\nIn September 2006, the All-Party Parliamentary Group against Anti-Semitism of the British Parliament published the Report of the All-Party Parliamentary Inquiry into Antisemitism, the result of an investigation into whether the belief that the \"prevailing opinion both within the Jewish community and beyond\" that antisemitism had \"receded to the point that it existed only on the margins of society.\" was correct. It concluded that \"the evidence we received indicates that there has been a reversal of this progress since the year 2000\". In defining antisemitism, the Group wrote that it took into account the view of racism expressed by the MacPherson report, which was published after the murder of Stephen Lawrence, that, for the purpose of investigating and recording complaints of crime by the police, an act must be recorded by the police as racist if it is defined as such by its victim. It formed the view that, broadly, \"any remark, insult or act the purpose or effect of which is to violate a Jewish person’s dignity or create an intimidating, hostile, degrading, humiliating or offensive environment for him is antisemitic\" and concluded that, given that, \"it is the Jewish community itself that is best qualified to determine what does and does not constitute antisemitism.\"\n\nThe report stated that while some witnesses pointed out that the level of antisemitism experienced by Jews in Britain is lower than that faced by Jewish communities in some other parts of Europe and that the Jewish community is not the only minority community in Britain to experience prejudice and discrimination, that these arguments, provided no comfort to victims of hate and violence, nor should they be used as an excuse to ignore the problem.\n\nThe report states that some left-wing activists and Muslim extremists are using criticism of Israel as a \"pretext\" for antisemitism, and that the \"most worrying discovery\" is that antisemitism appears to be entering the mainstream. It argues that anti-Zionism may become antisemitic when it adopts a view of Zionism as a \"global force of unlimited power and malevolence throughout history,\" a definition that \"bears no relation to the understanding that most Jews have of the concept: that is, a movement of Jewish national liberation ...\" Having re-defined Zionism, the report states, traditional antisemitic motifs of Jewish \"conspiratorial power, manipulation and subversion\" are often transferred from Jews onto Zionism. The report notes that this is \"at the core of the 'New Antisemitism', on which so much has been written,\" adding that many of those who gave evidence called anti-Zionism \"the \"lingua franca\" of antisemitic movements.\"\n\nIn November 2001, in response to an Abu-Dhabi television broadcast depicting Ariel Sharon drinking the blood of Palestinian children, the Israeli government set up the \"Coordinating Forum for Countering Antisemitism,\" headed by Deputy Foreign Minister Rabbi Michael Melchior. According to Melchior, \"in each and every generation antisemitism tries to hide its ugly face behind various disguises — and hatred of the State of Israel is its current disguise.\" He added that, \"hate against Israel has crossed the red line, having gone from criticism to unbridled antisemitic venom, which is a precise translation of classical antisemitism whose past results are all too familiar to the entire world.\"\n\nA number of commentators argue that the United Nations has condoned antisemitism. Lawrence Summers, then-president of Harvard University, wrote that the UN's World Conference on Racism failed to condemn human rights abuses in China, Rwanda, or anywhere in the Arab world, while raising Israel's alleged ethnic cleansing and crimes against humanity.\n\nDavid Matas, senior counsel to B'nai B'rith Canada, has written that the UN is a forum for antisemitism, citing the example of the Palestinian representative to the UN Human Rights Commission who claimed in 1997 that Israeli doctors had injected Palestinian children with the AIDS virus. Congressman Steve Chabot told the U.S. House of Representatives in 2005 that the commission took \"several months to correct in its record a statement by the Syrian ambassador that Jews allegedly had killed non-Jewish children to make unleavened bread for Passover.\n\nAnne Bayefsky, a Canadian legal scholar who addressed the UN about its treatment of Israel, argues that the UN hijacks the language of human rights to discriminate and demonize Jews. She writes that over one quarter of the resolutions condemning a state's human rights violations have been directed at Israel. \"But there has never been a single resolution about the decades-long repression of the civil and political rights of 1.3 billion people in China, or the million female migrant workers in Saudi Arabia kept as virtual slaves, or the virulent racism which has brought 600,000 people to the brink of starvation in Zimbabwe.\"\n\nIn a 2008 report on antisemitism from the United States Department of State to the US Congress, \nMotives for criticizing Israel in the UN may stem from legitimate concerns over policy or from illegitimate prejudices. [...] However, regardless of the intent, disproportionate criticism of Israel as barbaric and unprincipled, and corresponding discriminatory measures adopted in the UN against Israel, have the effect of causing audiences to associate negative attributes with Jews in general, thus fueling anti-Semitism.\n\nThe U.S. State Department's 2004 \"Report on Global Anti-Semitism\" identified four sources of rising antisemitism, particularly in Europe:\n\nIn July 2006, the U.S. Commission on Civil Rights issued a Campus Antisemitism report that declared that \"Anti-Semitic bigotry is no less morally deplorable when camouflaged as anti-Israelism or anti-Zionism.\" At the time, the Commission also announced that antisemitism is a \"serious problem\" on many campuses throughout the United States.\n\nIn September 2006, Yale University announced that it had established the Yale Initiative for the Interdisciplinary Study of Anti-Semitism, the first university-based institute in North America dedicated to the study of antisemitism. Charles Small, head of the institute, said in a press release that antisemitism has \"reemerged internationally in a manner that many leading scholars and policy makers take seriously ... Increasingly, Jewish communities around the world feel under threat. It's almost like going back into the lab. I think we need to understand the current manifestation of this disease.\"\nYIISA has presented several seminars and working papers on the topic, for instance \"The Academic and Public Debate Over the Meaning of the 'New Antisemitism'\".\n\nThe anti-globalization movement of the late 1990s and early 2000s was accused of displaying elements of New Antisemitism by writers and researchers such as Walter Laqueur, Paul Berman, and Mark Strauss. Critics of this view argue that the allegation is either unfounded or exaggerated, and is intended to discredit legitimate criticism of globalization and free trade economic policies.\n\nMark Strauss of \"Foreign Policy\" argues that globalization has stirred anxieties about \"outside forces,\" and that with \"familiar anxieties come familiar scapegoats.\"\nHe writes that what he calls the \"backlash against globalization\" has united a variety of political elements, from the left to the far-right, via a common cause, and that in so doing, it has \"foster[ed] a common enemy.\" He quotes the French Jewish leader Roger Cukierman who identifies the anti-globalization movement as \"an anti-Semitic brown-green-red alliance,\" which includes ultra-nationalists, the green movement, and communists.\n\nStrauss cites Jörg Haider of Austria's far-right Freedom Party and Jean-Marie Le Pen of France's Front national as examples of the far right exploiting their electorate's concerns about globalization. The \"Movimento Fascismo e Liberta\" in Italy identifies globalization as an \"instrument in the hands of international Zionism,\" according to Strauss, while in Eastern Europe, ultranationalists and communists have united against foreign investors and multinationals, identifying Jews as a common enemy.\n\nAmerican white nationalist Matthew F. Hale of the World Church of the Creator stated of the 1999 protests against the World Trade Organization in Seattle that they were \"incredibly successful from the point of view of the rioters as well as our Church. They helped shut down talks of the Jew World Order WTO and helped make a mockery of the Jewish Occupational Government around the world. Bravo.\" Strauss also cites the neo-Nazi National Alliance, which set up a website called the \"Anti-Globalism Action Network\" in order to \"broaden [...] the anti-globalism movement to include divergent and marginalized voices.\"\n\nStrauss writes that, as a result of far-right involvement, a \"bizarre ideological turf war has broken out,\" whereby anti-globalization activists are fighting a \"two-front battle,\" one against the World Trade Organization, International Monetary Fund (IMF), and World Bank, the other against the extremists who turn up at their rallies. He points to an anti-globalization march in Porto Alegre, Brazil at which he says some marchers displayed Swastikas and that Jewish peace activists were assaulted.\nHeld two months prior to the U.S.-led attack on Iraq, this year's conference — an annual grassroots riposte to the well-heeled World Economic Forum in Davos — had the theme, \"Another World is Possible.\" But the more appropriate theme might have been \"Yesterday's World is Back.\" Marchers among the 20,000 activists from 120 countries carried signs reading \"Nazis, Yankees, and Jews: No More Chosen Peoples!\" Some wore T-shirts with the Star of David twisted into Nazi swastikas. Members of a Palestinian organization pilloried Jews as the \"true fundamentalists who control United States capitalism.\" Jewish delegates carrying banners declaring \"Two peoples - Two states: Peace in the Middle East\" were assaulted.\n\nStrauss argues that the anti-globalization movement isn't itself antisemitic, but that it \"helps enable anti-Semitism by peddling conspiracy theories.\"\n\nStrauss's arguments have been met with strong criticism from many in the anti-globalization movement. Oded Grajew, one of the founders of the World Social Forum, has written that the WSF \"is not anti-Semitic, anti-American, or even anti-socially-responsible capitalism\". He claims that some fringe parties have attempted to infiltrate the WSF's demonstrations and promote demonstrations of their own, but adds that \"[t]he success of the WSF [...] is a threat to political extremist groups that resort to violence and hatred\". Grajew has also written that, to his knowledge, Strauss's claim of Nazi symbols being displayed at an anti-globalization demonstration in Porto Alegre, Brazil is false.\n\nMaude Barlow, national chairperson of the Council of Canadians, argues that Strauss has \"inflamed, not enlightened\" the debate over globalization by making \"no distinction between the far right's critique of globalization and that of the global social justice movement\", which is premised on \"respect for human rights and cultural diversity\". She notes that the Council of Canadians has condemned antisemitism, and that it expelled some individuals who tried to organize a David Icke tour under its auspices. John Cavanagh of the International Policy Centre has also criticized Strauss for using unproven allegations of antisemitism to criticize the entire anti-globalization movement, and for failing to research the movement's core beliefs.\n\nIn response to these criticisms, Strauss has written that antisemitic views \"might not reflect the core values of the Global Justice Movement or its leading figures, yet they are facts of life in an amorphous, grassroots movement where any number of individuals or organizations express their opinions or seek to set the agenda\". He has also reiterated his concern that \"anti-capitalist rhetoric provides intellectual fodder for far right groups\".\n\nWalter Laqueur describes this phenomenon:\nAlthough traditional Trotskyite ideology is in no way close to radical Islamic teachings and the shariah, since the radical Islamists also subscribed to anticapitalism, antiglobalism, and anti-Americanism, there seemed to be sufficient common ground for an alliance. Thus, the militants of the far left began to march side by side with the radical Islamists in demonstrations, denouncing American aggression and Israeli crimes. ... And it was only natural that in protest demonstrations militants from the far right would join in, antisemitic banners would be displayed, anti-Jewish literature such as the \"Protocols\" would be sold. \n\nLawrence Summers, then president of Harvard University, also stated that \"[s]erious and thoughtful people are advocating and taking actions that are anti-Semitic in their effect if not their intent. For example ... [a]t the same rallies where protesters, many of them university students, condemn the IMF and global capitalism and raise questions about globalization, it is becoming increasingly common to also lash out at Israel. Indeed, at the anti-IMF rallies last spring, chants were heard equating Hitler and Sharon.\"\n\nSimilar allegations have been made by Sol Stern, a senior fellow of the Manhattan Institute and a contributing editor to \"City Journal\". Stern identifies what he sees as antisemitism within the movement as a function of Jews no longer being portrayed as the victims of capitalism, but rather as its masters.\n\nA March 2003 report on antisemitism in the European Union by Werner Bergmann and Juliane Wetzel of the Berlin Research Centre on Anti-Semitism identifies anti-globalization rallies as one of the sources of antisemitism on the left.\nIn the extreme left-wing scene, anti-Semitic remarks were to be found mainly in the context of pro-Palestinian and anti-globalisation rallies and in newspaper articles using anti-Semitic stereotypes in their criticism of Israel. Often this generated a combination of anti-Zionist and anti-American views that formed an important element in the emergence of an anti-Semitic mood in Europe.\nMichael Kozak, then U.S. Acting Assistant Secretary for Democracy, Human Rights and Labor, told reporters in 2005 that people within the anti-globalization movement have conflated their legitimate concerns \"with this idea that Jews run the world and globalization is the fault of Jews.\" He said:\nI think one of the disturbing things is that you're starting to see this in some — you know, it's not just sort of right-wing ultranationalist skinhead types. It's now you're getting some fairly otherwise respectable intellectuals that are left of center who are anti-globalization who are starting to let this stuff creep into their rhetoric.\nAnd that's disturbing because it starts to — it starts to take what is a legitimate issue for debate, anti-globalization or the war in Iraq or any other issue, and when you start turning that into an excuse for saying therefore we should hate Jews, that's where you cross the line, in my view. It's not that you're not entitled to question all those other issues. Of course, those are fair game. But it's the same as saying, you know, you start hating all Muslims because of some policy you don't like by one Muslim country or something.\n\nRobert Wistrich, Professor of European and Jewish History at the Hebrew University of Jerusalem, told Manfred Gerstenfeld that globalization has given rise to an anti-globalist left that is \"viscerally anti-American, anti-capitalist, and hostile to world Jewry.\" He argues that the decade that preceded the current increase in antisemitism was one that saw accelerated globalization of the world economy, a process in which the losers included the Arab and Muslim worlds, and who are now the \"major consumers of anti-Jewish poison and conspiracy theories that blame everyone except themselves. Israel is only one piece on this chessboard, but it has assumed such inflated importance because it serves a classic anti-Semitic function of being an 'opium for the masses'.\"\n\nAs an example of the alleged conflation of globalization, the U.S. and Israel, Josef Joffe, editor and publisher of \"Die Zeit\" and adjunct professor at Stanford University, cited José Bové, a French anti-globalization activist and leader of the \"Confédération Paysanne\". Bové led what Joffe calls a \"deconstructionist mob\" against McDonald's to protest against its effects on French cuisine, later turning up in Ramallah to denounce Israel and announce his support for Yasser Arafat. \"Arafat's cause was Bové's cause ... here was a spokesman for the anti-globalization movement who was conflating globalization with Americanization and extending his loathing of both to Israel.\" Joffe argues that \"Kapitalismuskritik\" is a \"mainstay of the antisemitic faith, a charge that has passed smoothly from Jews to America. Like Jews, Americans are money-grubbers who know only the value of money, and the worth of nothing. Like Jews, they seek to reduce all relationships to exchange and money. Like them, Americans are motivated only by profit, and so they respect no tradition.\"\n\nDavid Clark, writing in \"The Guardian\", argues against this that \"instances of anti-capitalism spilling into 'rich Jew' bigotry are ... well documented\" but \"stand out precisely because they conflict so sharply with the Left’s universalism and its opposition to ethnic discrimination\".\n\nIn early 2004, Kalle Lasn, author of \"Culture Jam\" and founder of \"Adbusters\", two influential and widely read anti-globalization texts, generated controversy when he wrote an editorial entitled \"Why won't anyone say they are Jewish?\". In it he stated \"Drawing attention to the Jewishness of the neocons is a tricky game. Anyone who does so can count on automatically being smeared as an anti-Semite. But the point is not that Jews (who make up less than 2 percent of the American population) have a monolithic perspective. Indeed, American Jews overwhelmingly vote Democrat and many of them disagree strongly with Ariel Sharon’s policies and Bush’s aggression in Iraq. The point is simply that the neocons seem to have a special affinity for Israel that influences their political thinking and consequently American foreign policy in the Middle East.\" The editorial suggested that Jews represent a disproportionately high percentage of the neo-conservatives who control American foreign policy, and that this may affect policy with respect to Israel. Lasn included a list of influential neo-conservatives, with dots next to the names of those who were Jewish.\n\nLasn was criticized by a number of anti-globalization activists. Klaus Jahn, professor of the philosophy of history at the University of Toronto condemned Lasn's article stating \"Whether listing physicians who perform abortions in pro-life tracts, gays and lesbians in office memos, Communists in government and the entertainment industry under McCarthy, Jews in Central Europe under Nazism and so on, such list-making has always produced pernicious consequences.\"\n\nMeredith Warren, a Montreal anti-globalization activist responded to the article by saying \"The U.S. government has only an economic interest in having control over that region. It wants oil and stability – it has nothing to do with Jews or Judaism. Pointing out the various religious stances of those in power totally misses the point of the U.S. government's interest in Israel.\"\n\nAccording to a report by the Stephen Roth Institute for the Study of Antisemitism, a major event for the anti-globalization movement in France was the European Social Forum (ESF) in Paris in November 2003. The organizers allegedly included a number of Islamic groups, such as \"Présence Musulmane\", \"Secours Islamique\", and \"Collectif des Musulmans de France\". Tariq Ramadan, the grandson of Hassan al-Banna, the Egyptian founder of the Muslim Brotherhood, also attended meetings. A few weeks earlier, Ramadan had published a controversial article on a website — after \"Le Monde\" and \"Le Figaro\" refused to publish it — criticizing several French intellectuals, who according to the Institute, were either Jewish or \"others he mistakenly thought were Jewish,\" for having \"supposedly betrayed their universalist beliefs in favor of unconditional support for Zionism and Israel.\"\n\nBernard-Henri Lévy, one of the intellectuals who was criticized, called on the French anti-globalization movement to distance itself from Ramadan. In an interview with \"Le Monde\", Lévy said: \"Mr. Ramadan, dear anti-globalizationist friends, is not and cannot be one of yours. ... I call you on you quickly to distance yourselves from this character who, in crediting the idea of an elitist conspiracy under the control of Zionism, is only inflaming people’s thoughts and opening the way to the worst.\"\n\n\"Le Monde\" reported that many members of the anti-globalization movement in France agreed that Ramadan's article \"has no place on a European Social Forum mailing list.\"\n\nOther activists defended Ramadan. One activist told the newspaper that \"[o]ne of the characteristics of the European Social Forum is the stark rise in immigrant and Muslim organizations. It is an important phenomenon and a positive one in many ways.\" Another activist, Peter Khalfa, said: \"Ramadan’s essay is not anti-Semitic. It is dangerous to wave the red flag of anti-Semitism at any moment. However, it is a text marked partly by Ramadan’s communitarian thought and which communicates his view of the world to others.\" One of the leaders of the anti-globalization movement in France, José Bové of the \"Confédération Paysanne\", told \"Le Monde\": \"The anti-globalization movement defends universalist points of view which are therefore necessarily secular in their political expression. That there should be people of different cultures and religions is only natural. The whole effort is to escape such determinisms.\"\n\nOne of the protagonists of the anti-globalization movement, the Canadian writer and activist Naomi Klein, has written of her concern at finding antisemitic rhetoric on some activist websites that she had visited: \"I couldn’t help thinking about all the recent events I’ve been to where anti-Muslim violence was rightly condemned, but no mention was made of attacks on Jewish synagogues, cemeteries, and community centers.\" Klein urged activists to confront antisemitism as part of their work for social justice. She also suggested that allegations of antisemitism can be often politically motivated, and that activists should avoid political simplifications that could be perceived as antisemitic:\nThe [anti-]globalization movement isn't anti-Semitic, it just hasn't fully confronted the implications of diving into the Middle East conflict. Most people on the left are simply choosing sides. In the Middle East, where one side is under occupation and the other has the U.S. military behind it, the choice seems clear. But it is possible to criticize Israel while forcefully condemning the rise of anti-Semitism. And it is equally possible to be pro-Palestinian independence without adopting a simplistic pro-Palestinian/anti-Israel dichotomy, a mirror image of the good-versus-evil equations so beloved by President George W. Bush.\nIn October 2004, the \"New Internationalist\" magazine published a special issue covering the insertion of antisemitic rhetoric into some progressive debates. Adam Ma’anit wrote:\nTake Adbusters magazine’s founder Kalle Lasn’s recent editorial rant against Jewish neoconservatives...The article includes a self-selected ‘well-researched list’ of 50 of the supposedly most influential ‘neocons’ with little black dots next to all those who are Jewish...If it’s not the neocons then it’s the all-powerful ‘Jewish lobby’ which holds governments to ransom all over the world (because Jews control the global economy of course) to do their bidding. Meanwhile rightwing Judeophobes often talk of a leftist Jewish conspiracy to promote equality and human rights through a new internationalism embodied in the UN in order to control governments and suppress national sovereignty. They call it the ‘New World Order’ or the ‘Jew World Order’. They make similar lists to Lasn’s of prominent Jews in the global justice movement (Noam Chomsky, Naomi Klein, etc) to argue their case.\"\n\nThe issue observes, however, that \"While antisemitism is rife in the Arab World, the Israeli Government often uses it as moral justification for its policies.\"\n\nhttp://ssrn.com/abstract=1376592\n\n\nReports\n"}
{"id": "31159697", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31159697", "title": "Osip Minor", "text": "Osip Minor\n\nOsip Solomonovich Minor (; ; 1861–1932) was a Russian revolutionary and member of the Socialist-Revolutionary Party.\n\nMinor was born in Minsk (now in Belarus, then part of Minsk Governorate, Russian Empire). His father was Rabbi Solomon Minor, and many of his ancestors had been rabbis as well.\n\nMinor became involved in revolutionary politics while studying at the University of Moscow. He joined the party of 'People's Will' in the early 1880s. In 1883 he was arrested for the first time, and again in 1885. In 1887 he received a sentence of ten years hard labour in Siberia. On 22 March 1889 he participated in a prisoners' uprising in Yakutsk and was condemned to death by hanging, but the sentence was commuted to hard labour for life.\n\nIn 1896 he was released but forbidden to live in European Russia. That restriction was eased in 1898; he was merely forbidden to live in St. Petersburg or Moscow.\n\nAround 1900 he settled in Vilna (now Vilnius in Lithuania). He became active in the revolutionary movement in Vilna, but gravitated toward Narodnik circles rather than to the Marxist Bund because they seemed to him to be more revolutionary. He was affiliated with the mainly Jewish Socialist-Revolutionary Workers' Party for the Political Liberation of Russia, organised by Mark Natanson.\n\nIn 1901, Minor travelled abroad and assisted in the unification of various Socialist-Revolutionary groups in the Socialist-Revolutionary Party (PSR). He returned to Russia and worked for the PSR in various capacities and participated in the Revolution of 1905. In 1909, Evno Azev, head of the PSR's 'Combat Organisation' and an agent of the Okhrana (secret police), betrayed Minor and had him arrested again, but by 1913 Minor had escaped from Siberia and was in Geneva, Switzerland, working with the organisation of Russian Socialis-Revolutionries Abroad. He seems to have returned to Russia but was captured. He was freed by the February Revolution of 1917.\n\nDuring the First World War Minor took a Defencist position, which put him at odds with the PSR leader Viktor Chernov and with his old associate Natanson.\n\nIn 1917 Minor became president of the Moscow City Duma. He opposed the Bolshevik October Revolution and supported attempts to set up an anti-Bolshevik democratic government.\n\nMinor left Russia in 1919. He settled in Paris, remained active in the community of Russian exiles and edited the journal \"Volia Rossii\" (\"Russian Will\"), together with V. M. Zenzinov and V. I. Lebedev.\n\nIn 1921 he was one of the authors of an exposé of the Kronstadt rebellion and its suppression by the Bolsheviks, \"The Truth about Kronstadt\". Minor also served as chairman of the Society for Assistance to Exiles and Political Prisoners in Russia. Among his close friends was Ilya Fondaminsky ('Bunakov'), a veteran SR who later converted from Judaism to Orthodox Christianity and was murdered in the Auschwitz concentration camp in 1942. He wrote his memoirs, \"Eto Bylo Davno\" (\"It was Long Ago\"), covering the pre-war period; they were published posthumously in 1933.\n\n"}
{"id": "44980744", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44980744", "title": "Pact of Ensisheim", "text": "Pact of Ensisheim\n\nThe Pact of Ensisheim is a Peace treaty signed by the Confederation of the VIII Cantons and France after the Battle of St. Jakob an der Birs. It was signed on 28 October 1444 in Ensisheim, near Basel.\n\nThe Battle of the Birs was fought 26 August 1444 and opposing the French Écorcheurs to the Swiss. This battle is a part of the Old Zürich War, a civil war between Zürich and the 7 other Swiss cantons : Uri, Schwyz, Nidwalden, Obwalden, Glarus, Zug and Bern.\n\nFollowing these tension, the Emperor of the Holy Roman Empire , Frederick III, asks Charles VII of France to defend Zürich in his place. France, having made a truce with England in the Hundred Years' War, had many unemployed soldiers whom he sends to Switzerland. Charles VII sends his son, Louis the Dauphin of the Viennois. Their aim is to assure their suzerainty on the towns of Alsace and Switzerland. The Swiss, with only men, against Écorcheurs at the beginning of the battle, were vanquished. However, thanks to their bravery and willingness to protect their country, they win the respect of the Dauphin.\n\nThe Dauphin of France decides to create an alliance, favourizing peace. He decides to stop any hostility and make a treaty between France and the Confederates. This treaty contains four main points, guaranteeing said peace:\nThe French mercenaries didn't leave the country until the spring of 1445\n\nFinally, the Swiss keep the land of Saint-Jaques, who is symbolically more important than politically. Moreover, this treaty establishes the Pact of Einseideln, the end of the tensions between Zürich and the Confederation. This battle also improves the reputation of Switzerland in Europe, because of their defiance of the enemy, France, even with ten times less men.\n\n"}
{"id": "42440506", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42440506", "title": "Peter Masters", "text": "Peter Masters\n\nPeter Masters has been the Minister of the Metropolitan Tabernacle (Spurgeon's) in central London since 1970. He commenced the Evangelical Times, the monthly evangelical conservative newspaper. He directs the School of Theology, an annual Christian conference for pastors and Christian workers.\nHe edits the international magazine 'Sword & Trowel' (started by Spurgeon in 1865).\n\nHe initiated the London Reformed Seminary in 1976 and directs the further studies of both pastors and aspiring pastors in the Tabernacle's adjunct seminary. The seminary went online from 2011.\n\nHe has authored 28 books, which have been translated into at least 28 other languages. These include Arabic, Amharic, Belarusian, Chinese, Dutch, French, German, Greek, Hungarian, Hindi, Indonesian, Korean, Lithuanian, Maltese, Nepali, Persian, Polish, Portuguese, Romanian, Russian, Serbian, Shona, Slovak, Spanish, Tamil, Telugu, and Urdu.\n\nHis sermons have been broadcast in the UK since 2003 on the Sky channel UCB with up to seven airings a week. In 2013 it transferred to the Sky channel Revelation TV, it is aired every Saturday evening at 8pm. These broadcasts include a sermon from Dr Masters and an accompanying apologetic or biographical feature. Current UK channels are Sky Channel 581, Freeview HD Channel 241 and Freesat Channel 692. Programmes are also carried by a number of overseas radio stations including in the USA and New Zealand.\n\nHe has repeatedly lobbied for the necessity of distinctive and frequent evangelistic addresses, and lamented the loss of this basic duty amongst evangelical ministers. His own church has a specific evangelistic service at 6.30pm on Sundays.\n\nBy calling other ministers to remember and consider the Downgrade Controversy, Peter Masters has advocated a duty of ministerial separation from churches which have defected from basic precepts of historical evangelical doctrine, like the necessity of regeneration, justification by faith without works, or the infallibility and sufficiency of the Bible for church rule. In this he has repeated the call of Martyn Lloyd-Jones, in his controversy with John Stott, to separate from non-evangelical churches, and followed in the tradition of E. J. Poole-Connor, the original founder of the Fellowship of Independent Evangelical Churches.\n\nHe has opposed and challenged the teaching of the Charismatic Movement that New Testament sign gifts are still extant, arguing that the Bible contains the promise that it is both sufficient and complete, rendering new revelation both redundant and dangerous. This position has been described as cessationist. He has, upon the same grounds, critiqued claims of the gift of miraculous healing as spurious, lacking credibility and sometimes occultic.\n\nHe opposes Neo-Darwinian evolution, which evangelicals have seen historically as a form of humanist propaganda, and as a doctrine viewed as wholly at variance with the first books of the Bible. He helped found the Newton Scientific Association, and has supported lectures and talks examining weaknesses of the theory.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "235230", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=235230", "title": "Political scandal", "text": "Political scandal\n\nA political scandal is an action or event regarded as morally or legally wrong and causing general public outrage. Politicians, government officials, party officials, lobbyists can be accused of various illegal, corrupt, or unethical practices. A political scandal can involve the breaking of the nation's laws or moral codes and may involve sexual scandal.\n\nScandal sells, and broadsides, pamphlets, newspapers, magazines and the electronic media have covered it in depth. The Muckraker movement in American journalism was a component of the Progressive Era in the U.S. in the early 20th century. Journalists have built their careers on exposure of corruption and political scandal, often acting on behalf of the opposition party.\nThere are numerous contextual factors that make a scandal noteworthy, such as the importance of the people and the depth of conspiracy, as well as the coverup strategies of policymakers.\nThe political ideology of media owners plays a role—they prefer to target the opposition but will reluctantly cover their own side. Journalists have to frame the story in terms of the audience's values and expectations to maximize the impact.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "8849727", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8849727", "title": "Property abstract", "text": "Property abstract\n\nA property abstract is a collection of legal documents that chronicle transactions associated with a particular parcel of land. Generally included are references to deeds, mortgages, wills, probate records, court litigations, and tax sales—basically, any legal document that affects the property.\n\nThe abstract will show the names of all property owners, how long a particular holder owned it, and the price of the land when it was sold. Rarely will an abstract mention capital improvements to the property.\n\nProperty abstracts are considered good starting places for research on historical buildings.\n\nAn abstract of title is the condensed history of the title to a particular parcel of real estate, consisting of a summary of the original grant and all subsequent conveyances and encumbrances affecting the property and a certification by the abstractor that the history is complete and accurate. In the United States, the abstract of title furnishes the raw data for the preparation of a policy of title insurance for the parcel of land in question. In Iowa, commercial title insurance is outlawed, so title insurance policies are issued by Iowa Title Guaranty, an Iowa state government agency.\n\nAn abstract of title should be distinguished from an \"opinion of title\". While an abstract states that all of the public record documents concerning the property in question are contained therein, an opinion states the professional judgment of the person giving the opinion as to the vesting of the title and other matters concerning the chain of title. Many jurisdictions define the giving of an opinion of title as the practice of law, thus making it unlawful for a non-attorney to provide such an opinion.\n\n"}
{"id": "40078198", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40078198", "title": "Protection papers", "text": "Protection papers\n\nProtection papers, also known as \"Seamen Protection Papers,\" \"Seamen Protection Certificates,\" or \"Sailor's Protection Papers\", were issued to American seamen during the last part of the 18th century through the first half of the 20th century. These papers provided a description of the sailor and showed American citizenship. They were issued to American sailors to prevent them from being impressed on British men-of-war, during the period leading to and after the War of 1812.\n\nThe certificates could be issued for a fee of 25 cents, and required proof of citizenship, although this was later changed to require only a notarized affidavit of citizenship.\n\nProtection papers were also offered to those who remained loyal to the crown during the American Revolution. The day Richard Stockton was captured, General William Howe had written a proclamation offering protection papers and a full and free pardon to those willing to remain in peaceable obedience to the king, George III. Although many took the pardon, Stockton never did and was marched to Perth Amboy, where he was put in irons, and treated as a common criminal.\n\nIn 1796, federal legislation regarding Seaman's Protection Certificates was enacted for merchant seamen.\n\nBecause these protection papers were used to define freemen and citizenship, many black sailors and other men also used them to show that they were freemen if they were stopped by officials or slave catchers. They also called them \"free papers\" because they certified their non-slave status.\n\nMany of the problems of these protection papers were that the descriptions were often vague or could apply to almost anyone.\n\nFrederick Douglass used a \"protection paper\" of a free black sailor to escape. He said: \n\n\"It was the custom in the State of Maryland to require of the free colored people to have what were called free papers. This instrument they were required to renew very often, and by charging a fee for this writing, considerable sums from time to time were collected by the State. In these papers the name, age, color, height and form of the free man were described, together with any scars or other marks upon his person which could assist in his identification. This device of slaveholding ingenuity, like other devices of wickedness, in some measure defeated itself—since more than one man could be found to answer the same general description. Hence many slaves could escape by impersonating the owner of one set of papers; and this was often done as follows: A slave nearly or sufficiently answering the description set forth in the papers, would borrow or hire them till he could by their means escape to a free state, and then, by mail or otherwise, return them to the owner. The operation was a hazardous one for the lender as well as for the borrower. A failure on the part of the fugitive to send back the papers would imperil his benefactor, and the discovery of the papers in possession of the wrong man would imperil both the fugitive and his friend. It was therefore an act of supreme trust on the part of a freeman of color thus to put in jeopardy his own liberty that another might be free. It was, however, not infrequently bravely done, and was seldom discovered. I was not so fortunate as to sufficiently resemble any of my free acquaintances as to answer the description of their papers. But I had one friend—a sailor—who owned a sailor's protection, which answered somewhat the purpose of free papers—describing his person and certifying to the fact that he was a free American sailor. The instrument had at its head the American eagle, which at once gave it the appearance of an authorized document. This protection did not, when in my hands, describe its bearer very accurately. Indeed, it called for a man much darker than myself, and close examination of it would have caused my arrest at the start.\"\n\nA review of many of these protection papers reveals the number of black men who were sailors. \"By 1800, about 18 percent of the one hundred thousand Americans at sea were African Americans. It is possible to trace the number of African Americans in vessels belonging to the United States (an unknown number sailed for other nations) because Seamen's Protection Certificates were drawn up for all “citizens”—as they specified, such that blacks used them to claim citizenship they were commonly denied—so that in theory they could not be seized by other nations. The records show great statistical variations depending on the port: In Philadelphia and Baltimore, the proportions of African Americans hovered around 15 percent from 1800 to 1860. New York's percentage fell from between 14 and 18 percent annually before 1830 to between 7 and 8 percent from 1830 to 1860; that of Savannah, Georgia, dropped from around 13 percent before 1830 to under 2 percent by 1836. The proportion of black mariners in New Orleans, Louisiana, also fell from averages in the high teens before 1820 to around 10 percent in the 1830s and between 1 and 7 percent in the 1840s and 1850s.\n\nMany of the protection certificates were so general, and it was so easy to abuse the system, that many impressment officers of the Royal Navy paid no attention to them. \"In applying for a duplicate Seaman's Protection Certificate in 1817, James Francis stated that he 'had a protection granted him by the Collector of this Port on or about 12 March 1806 which was torn up and destroyed by a British Captain when at sea.'\" \n\nOne way of making them more specific was to describe a tattoo, which is highly personal, and thus use that description to identify the seaman. As a result, many of the certificates carried information about tattoos and scars, as well as other specific information. This also perhaps led to an increase and proliferation of tattoos among American seamen. \"Frequently their \"protection papers\" made reference to tattoos, clear evidence that individual was a seafaring man; rarely did members of the general public adorn themselves with tattoos.\"\n\n\"In the late eighteenth and early nineteenth centuries, tattoos were as much about self-expression as they were about having a unique way to identify a sailor's body should he be lost at sea or impressed by the British navy. The best source for early American tattoos is the protection papers issued following a 1796 congressional act to safeguard American seamen from impressment. These proto-passports catalogued tattoos alongside birthmarks, scars, race, and height. Using simple techniques and tools, tattoo artists in the early republic typically worked on board ships using anything available as pigments, even gunpowder and urine. Men marked their arms and hands with initials of themselves and loved ones, significant dates, symbols of the seafaring life, liberty poles, crucifixes, and other symbols.\"\n\nThe Seamen's Protection Certificates were discontinued in the 1940s, as other forms of identification of American sailors were instituted. Several reports to the United States House of Representatives and the United States Senate demonstrated that they were no longer needed. \"As the threat to American freedom on the high seas began to disappear, Protection Certificates became more valuable as identification, and they were used as such until 1940, when the Seamen's Continuous Discharge Book replaced them. These documents are common items in maritime collections and are important research sources for of American seamen.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "5722809", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5722809", "title": "Red Color", "text": "Red Color\n\nThe Red Colour (, transl.: \"Tzeva Adom\") is an early-warning radar system installed by the Israel Defense Forces in several towns surrounding the Gaza Strip to warn civilians of imminent attack by rockets (usually Qassam rockets). Outside of areas serviced by the Red Color system, standard air raid sirens are used to warn of rocket attacks.\n\nThe system currently operates in a number of southern Israeli cities within range of missiles fired from the Gaza Strip, including Sderot. When the signature of a rocket launch is detected originating in Gaza, the system automatically activates the public broadcast warning system in nearby Israeli communities and military bases. A recorded female voice, intoning the Hebrew words for Red Color (\"Tzeva Adom\"), is broadcased 4 times. The entire program is repeated until all rockets have impacted and no further launches are detected. In Sderot, it gives residents approximately 15 seconds' warning of an incoming missile.\n\nThe system was installed in Ashkelon between July 2005 and April 2006.\n\nUp to 2007, the announcement was called Red Dawn (, transl.: Shachar Adom) but it was changed to the Hebrew words for Red Color () due to a complaint made by a 7-year-old girl named Shakhar (Hebrew for dawn).\n\nIt was the subject of a documentary, which focused on how children are to cope with an alert, directed by Yoav Shoam.\n\nSince 2014, alerts have been available on an iPhone application from the App Store. It was the most downloaded app in Israel in July 2014 during Operation Protective Edge. Users can select to receive alerts for rocket attacks nationwide, or only in their districts.\n\n"}
{"id": "7091951", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7091951", "title": "Revolutionary Youth Union", "text": "Revolutionary Youth Union\n\nRevolutionary Youth Union (officially abbreviated RYU; , \"Ittihad Shabibat ath-Thawra\") is the youth organization of the Arab Socialist Ba'ath Party in Syria. RYU is a member organization of the World Federation of Democratic Youth.\n\n"}
{"id": "1672021", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1672021", "title": "Rum-running", "text": "Rum-running\n\nRum-running, or bootlegging, is the illegal business of transporting (smuggling) alcoholic beverages where such transportation is forbidden by law. Smuggling is usually done to circumvent taxation or prohibition laws within a particular jurisdiction. The term \"rum-running\" is more commonly applied to smuggling over water; \"bootlegging\" is applied to smuggling over land.\n\nIt is believed that the term \"boot-legging\" originated during the American Civil War, when soldiers would sneak liquor into army camps by concealing pint bottles within their boots or beneath their trouser legs. Also, according to the PBS documentary \"Prohibition\", the term \"bootlegging\" was popularized when thousands of city dwellers would sell liquor from flasks they kept in their boot leg all across major cities and rural areas. The term \"rum-running\" most likely originated at the start of Prohibition in the United States (1920–1933), when ships from Bimini in the western Bahamas transported cheap Caribbean rum to Florida speakeasies. But rum's cheapness made it a low-profit item for the rum-runners, and they soon moved on to smuggling Canadian whisky, French champagne, and English gin to major cities like New York City, Boston, and Chicago, where prices ran high. It was said that some ships carried $200,000 in contraband in a single run.\n\nIt was not long after the first taxes on alcoholic beverages that someone began to smuggle them. The British government had \"revenue cutters\" in place to stop smugglers as early as the 16th century. Pirates often made extra money running rum to heavily taxed colonies. There were times when the sale of alcohol was limited for other purposes, such as laws against sales to American Indians in the Old West, Canada West, or local prohibitions like the one on Prince Edward Island between 1901 and 1948.\n\nIndustrial-scale smuggling flowed both ways across the Canada–US border at different points in the early twentieth century. Though Canada never had true nationwide prohibition, the federal government gave the provinces an easy means to ban alcohol under the \"War Measures Act\" (1914) and most provinces and the Yukon Territory already had enacted prohibition locally by 1918 when a regulation issued by the federal cabinet banned the interprovincial trade and importation of liquor. National prohibition in the United States did not begin until 1920 (though many states had statewide prohibition before that). For the two-year interval, enough American liquor entered Canada illegally to help undermine support for prohibition in Canada such that it was slowly lifted, beginning with Quebec and Yukon in 1919, and including all of the provinces but Prince Edward Island by 1930. As well, Canada's version of prohibition had never included a ban on the manufacture of liquor for export. Soon the black-market trade was reversed with Canadian whisky and beer flowing in large quantities to the United States. Again, this illegal international trade undermined the support for prohibition in the receiving country, and the American version ended (at the national level) in 1933.\n\nOne of the most famous periods of rum-running began in the United States when Prohibition began on January 16, 1920, when the Eighteenth Amendment went into effect. This period lasted until the Eighteenth Amendment was repealed with ratification of the Twenty-first Amendment, on December 5, 1933.\n\nAt first, there was much action on the seas, but after several months the Coast Guard began reporting decreasing smuggling activity. This was the start of the Bimini–Bahamas rum trade and the introduction of Bill McCoy.\n\nWith the start of Prohibition Captain McCoy began bringing rum from Bimini and the rest of the Bahamas into south Florida through Government Cut. The Coast Guard soon caught up with him, so he began to bring the illegal goods to just outside U.S. territorial waters and let smaller boats and other captains such as Habana Joe take the risk of bringing it into shore.\n\nThe rum-running business was very good, and McCoy soon bought a Gloucester knockabout schooner named \"Arethusa\" at auction and renamed her \"Tomoka\". He installed a larger auxiliary, mounted a concealed machine gun on her deck and refitted the fish pens below to accommodate as much contraband as she could hold. She became one of the most famous of the rum-runners, along with his two other ships hauling mostly Irish and Canadian whiskey, as well as other fine liquors and wines, to ports from Maine to Florida.\n\nIn the days of rum running, it was common for captains to add water to the bottles to stretch their profits, or to re-label it as better goods. Any cheap sparkling wine became French champagne or Italian Spumante; unbranded liquor became top-of-the-line name brands. McCoy became famous for never watering his booze, and selling only top brands. Although the phrase appears in print in 1882, this is one of several folk etymologies for the origin of the term \"The real McCoy.\"\n\nOn November 15, 1923, McCoy and \"Tomoka\" encountered the U.S. Coast Guard Cutter \"Seneca\", just outside U.S. territorial waters. A boarding party attempted to board, but McCoy chased them off with the machine gun. \"Tomoka\" tried to run, but the \"Seneca\" placed a shell just off her hull, and William McCoy surrendered his ship and cargo. \n\nMcCoy is credited with the idea of bringing large boats just to the edge of the three-mile (4.8 km) limit of U.S. jurisdiction, and there selling his wares to \"contact boats\", local fishermen and small boat captains. The small, quick boats could more easily outrun Coast Guard ships and could dock in any small river or eddy and transfer their cargo to a waiting truck. They were also known to load float planes and flying boats. Soon others were following suit; the three-mile (4.8 km) limit became known as \"Rum Line\" and the ships waiting were called \"Rum row\". The Rum Line was extended to a 12-mile (19.3 km) limit by an act of the United States Congress on April 21, 1924, which made it harder for the smaller and less seaworthy craft to make the trip.\n\nRum Row was not the only front for the Coast Guard. Rum-runners often made the trip through Canada via the Great Lakes and the Saint Lawrence Seaway, and down the west coast to San Francisco and Los Angeles. Rum-running from Canada was also an issue, especially throughout prohibition in the early 1900s. There was a high number of distilleries in Canada, one of the most famous being Hiram Walker who developed Canadian Club Whisky. The French islands of Saint-Pierre and Miquelon, located south of Newfoundland, were an important base used by well-known smugglers including Al Capone, Savannah Unknown, and Bill McCoy. The Gulf of Mexico also teemed with ships running from Mexico and the Bahamas to Galveston, Texas, the Louisiana swamps and Alabama coast. By far the biggest Rum Row was in the New York/Philadelphia area off the New Jersey coast, where as many as 60 ships were seen at one time. One of the most notable New Jersey rum runners was Habana Joe, who could be seen at night running into remote areas in Raritan Bay with his flat-bottom skiff for running up on the beach, making his delivery, and speeding away.\n\nWith that much competition, the suppliers often flew large banners advertising their wares and threw parties with prostitutes on board their ships to draw customers. Rum Row was completely lawless, and many crews armed themselves not against government ships but against the other rum-runners, who would sometimes sink a ship and hijack its cargo rather than make the run to Canada or the Caribbean for fresh supplies.\n\nAt the start, the rum-runner fleet consisted of a ragtag flotilla of fishing boats such as the schooner \"Nellie J. Banks\", excursion boats, and small merchant craft. But as prohibition wore on, the stakes got higher and the ships became larger and more specialized. Converted fishing ships like McCoy's \"Tomoka\" waited on Rum Row and were soon joined by small motor freighters custom-built in Nova Scotia for rumrunning, with low, grey hulls, hidden compartments and powerful wireless equipment. Examples include the Reo II. Specialized high-speed craft were built for the ship-to-shore runs. These high-speed boats were often luxury yachts and speedboats fitted with powerful aircraft engines, machine guns, and armor plating. Often, builders of rum-runners' ships also supplied Coast Guard vessels (such as Fred and Mirto Scopinich's Freeport Point Shipyard). Rum-runners often kept cans of used engine oil handy to pour on hot exhaust manifolds, in case a smoke screen was needed to escape the revenue ships.\n\nOn the government's side the rum chasers were an assortment of patrol boats, inshore patrol and harbor cutters. Most of the patrol boats were of the \"six-bit\" variety: 75-foot craft with a top speed of about 12 knots. There were also an assortment of launches, harbor tugs and miscellaneous small craft.\n\nThe rum-runners were definitely faster and more maneuverable. Add to that the fact that a rum-running captain could make several hundred thousand dollars a year. In comparison, the Commandant of the Coast Guard made just $6,000 annually, and seamen made $30/week. These huge rewards meant the rum-runners were willing to take big risks. They ran without lights at night and in fog, risking life and limb. Often, the shores were littered with bottles from a rum-runner who had hit a sandbar or a reef in the dark at high speed and sank.\n\nThe Coast Guard relied on hard work, reconnaissance and big guns to get their job done. It was not uncommon for rum-runners' ships to be sold at auction shortly after a trial — often right back to the original owners. Some ships were captured three or four times before they were finally sunk or retired. In addition, the Coast Guard had other duties, and often had to let a rum-runner go in order to assist a sinking vessel or other emergency.\n\nFor multiple reasons (including the avoidance of taxes and minimum purchase prices), alcohol smuggling is still a worldwide concern.\n\nIn the United States, the smuggling of alcohol has not ended with the repeal of prohibition. In the Appalachian United States, for example, though the demand for moonshine was at an all-time high in the 1920s, an era of rampant bootlegging in dry areas continued into the 1970s. Though the well-known bootleggers of the day may no longer be in business, bootlegging still exists even if on a smaller scale. The state of Virginia has reported that it loses up to $20 million from illegal whiskey smuggling.\n\nThe Government of the United Kingdom fails to collect an estimated £900 million in taxes due to alcohol smuggling activities.\n\nAbsinthe was smuggled into the United States until it was legalized in 2007. Cuban rum is also sometimes smuggled into the United States, circumventing the embargo in existence since 1960.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "942456", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=942456", "title": "Slovene Peasant Revolt", "text": "Slovene Peasant Revolt\n\nThe Slovene Peasant Revolt (, ) took place in 1515 and was the largest peasant revolt in the Slovene Lands. It engulfed most of what is now Slovenia. There were about 80,000 rebels who demanded the reintroduction of the original feudal obligations and trade rights (the so-called \"old rights\"; ) and a right to decide about the taxes. The spark which started this uprising was when the ethnic German peasants of the Gottschee region killed their lord Jorg von Thurn. They attacked the castles within the region, except in the territory of the County of Görz, where conflicts were solved through negotiations. The revolt was put down by the mercenaries of the Holy Roman Empire, with the deciding battle fought at Celje. The words \"stara pravda\" were printed in 1515 in Vienna in a poem of the German mercenaries and were the first printed Slovene words.\n"}
{"id": "506024", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=506024", "title": "Small arms trade", "text": "Small arms trade\n\nSmall arms trade or the small arms market refer to both authorized and illicit markets for small arms and light weapons (SALW), and their parts, accessories, and ammunition.\n\nThe small arms trade, or small arms market, includes both authorized transfers of small arms and light weapons (and their parts, accessories, and bullets ), and illicit transfers of such weapons. Small arms and light arms are those that can be transported by one or two people, or carried by pack animal or vehicles, ranging from firearms like pistols and light machine guns to man-portable air-defense systems (MPADS), mortars, and rocket-propelled grenades (RPGs). The trade occurs globally, but is concentrated in areas of armed conflict, violence, organized crime. In terms of actions that are illicit, this trade involves the illegal trafficking of small arms, and the exchange of money and drugs for small arms which are all commodities that cross borders around the globe. These weapons are not only the choice for a majority of regional conflicts today, but also for many terrorist groups operating around the world. Legal transfers are generally defined as those approved by the involved governments and in accord with national and international law. Black market (illegal) transfers clearly violate either national or international law and take place without official government authorization. Gray (or grey) market transfers are those of unclear legality that do not belong in either of the other categories.\n\nSmall arms proliferation is a related term used to describe the growth in both the authorized and the illicit markets. In 2003, various international organizations (including Amnesty International, Oxfam International, and IANSA), and domestic groups (e.g. the Small Arms Working Group in the U.S.) committed themselves to limiting the trade in and proliferation of small arms around the world. They said that roughly 500,000 people are killed each year by the use of small arms.\n\nThe Small Arms Survey, an independent research project based in Switzerland, said in its 2003 report that at least 1,134 companies in 98 countries worldwide are involved in some aspect of the production of small arms and ammunition. The largest exporters of small arms by value are the European Union and the United States.\n\nIn 2010, the number of countries exporting at least $100 million of small arms annually rose from 12 to 14. The exporters' list was led by the U.S., followed by Italy, Germany, Brazil, Austria, Switzerland, Israel, Russia, South Korea, Belgium, China, Turkey, Spain and the Czech Republic. Sweden dropped off the list because its exports fell from $132 million in 2010 to $44 million in 2011.\n\nIn addition, massive exports of small arms by the U.S. (M16), the former Soviet Union (AKM), People's Republic of China (Type 56), Germany (H&K G3), Belgium (FN FAL), and Brazil (FN FAL) during the Cold War took place commercially and to support ideological movements. These small arms have survived many conflicts and many are now in the hands of arms dealers or smaller governments who move them between conflict areas as needed.\n\nThe eight countries that imported at least $100 million of small arms in 2011 were the United States, Canada, Germany, Australia, Thailand, United Kingdom, France and Italy. South Korea dropped from the list because its imports fell from $130 million in 2010 to $40 million in 2011.\n\nThe United Nations Conference on the Illicit Trade in Small Arms and Light Weapons in All Its Aspects was held in New York City from 9–20 July 2001 as decided in United Nations General Assembly Resolution 54/54 V. Preceded by three preparatory committee sessions, the two-week Conference resulted in the adoption of the 'Programme of Action to Prevent, Combat and Eradicate the Illicit Trade in Small Arms and Light Weapons in All Its Aspects.' States are required to report to the United Nations on the progress of their implementation of the UN Programme of Action, commonly known as the PoA.\n\nThe extent to which illicit trade in small arms is a primary cause of armed conflict and other serious humanitarian and socioeconomic issues has drawn controversy. The extremely high incidence of small arms violence and the presence of illicitly obtained weapons, especially in areas of turmoil and armed conflict, is undisputed. Because other societal factors play a strong role in creating armed conflict, however, the role of such weapons as a driver of continued violence and disruption has been called into question. Recent scholarship has focused on the root societal causes for violence in addition to the enabling tools. Another target of criticism is the ability to regulate illicit trafficking through international means, since it is unclear exactly what proportion of the weapons are trafficked across borders. The nature of the trafficking enterprise makes exact statistics difficult to determine. Recently, however, researchers have had some success establishing hard numbers within limited parameters.\n\nAccording to a 2012 Routledge Studies in Peace and Conflict Resolution publication, \"the relative importance of diversion or misuse of officially authorised transfers, compared to international entirely illegal black market trafficking has been thoroughly confirmed.\" The authors go on to elaborate that...\"For most developing or fragile states, a combination of weak domestic regulation of authorised firearms possession with theft, loss or corrupt sale from official holdings tends to be a bigger source of weapons concern than illicit trafficking across borders.\"\n\nThe United Nations General Assembly scheduled a review conference in New York which was held from 26 June to 7 July 2006. The Review Conference was plagued by disagreements and states were unable to agree on a substantive outcome document. There have also been four Biennial Meetings of States to consider the implementation of the Programme of Action, in 2003, 2005, 2008 and 2010. The 2008 Biennial Meeting of States resulted in the adoption, by vote, of an Outcome Document focusing on three main issues: international assistance, cooperation and capacity-building; stockpile management and surplus disposal; and illicit brokering in small arms and light weapons. The Fourth Biennial Meeting in 2010 was able to adopt, for the first time by consensus, a substantive Outcome Document which addresses the issue of illicit trade across borders.\n\nA second conference convened from 27 August to 7 September 2012 in New York.\n\nPerhaps the greatest barrier to resolving debates over gun policy is the lack of comprehensive data. Although the UN Arms Register tries to keep track of major weapons holdings, there is no global reporting system for small arms. Gathering data for Small Arms and Light Weapons (SALW) can be difficult, considering the transparency of some countries and lack of an organized system within countries. However, as pointed out by the Small Arms Survey, in the past ten years twenty-nine countries have made available a national arms export report. Twenty-five of these countries being European, while only four countries being non-European which include Australia, Canada, South Africa and the United States. While some countries make information available about the small arms of their armed forces and law enforcement agencies; others release estimated data on public ownership. Most refuse to release anything, release rough estimates or simply do not know. Fortunately, to address these issues, the Small Arms Survey's contributors have devised a transparency barometer allowing them to consider each country's cooperation and credibility on shared information.\n\nAccording to the 2007 edition of the \"Small Arms Survey\", there are at least 639 million firearms in the world, although the actual total is almost certainly considerably higher. This number increases by approximately 8 million every year, for a total economic impact of about USD$7 billion annually.\n\nThe \"Small Arms Survey\" figures are estimates, based on available national figures and field research in particular countries. They give a general sense of trends and the scale of the number of small arms.\n\nThe necessity of gun control and international arms control, while generally uncontroversial in most regions across the globe, is a matter of public debate in countries such as Pakistan and the United States where gun ownership for purposes other than hunting is prevalent and socially acceptable. Non-governmental organisations such as IANSA argue that the prevalence of small arms contributes to the cycle of violence between governments and individuals. Unlike the judiciaries of most nations, the U.S. Supreme Court has ruled (most notably in Antonin Scalia's majority opinion in \"District of Columbia v. Heller\") that due to the Second Amendment to the United States Constitution, the legislative and executive branches of both the federal and state governments are limited in their abilities to regulate gun ownership. However, this interpretation is a matter of contention On the other hand, U.S. gun rights lobby groups, most notably the National Rifle Association and Jews for the Preservation of Firearms Ownership, assert that access to gun ownership is often necessary for self-defence. Similarly, gun ownership is widely held by many in Pakistan to be a necessary protection against crime as well as a way through which citizens can participate in law enforcement.\n\nStephen Halbrook, a Senior Fellow at the Independent Institute and an author and lawyer known for his litigation on behalf of the National Rifle Association, proposed the Nazi gun control theory, which claims that disarming citizens leaves them defenseless against totalitarian governments (such as Jews in Nazi Germany). This theory has not been supported by qualified experts.\n\nThe persistence and the complication of wars in Africa are partially due to small arms proliferation. Researchers for the Small Arms Survey estimate that approximately 30 million firearms are being circulated throughout Africa. This number is much less than the total number of small arms in Europe, estimated to be 84 million. However, the number of small arms isn't as important in comparison to how they are being used. The Small Arms Survey reports that at least 38 different companies are producing small arms in Sub-Saharan Africa, yet indigenous companies are not fulfilling the demands. South Africa is the largest exporter of small arms in the region, but only $6 million in small arms were exported out of the country, while $25 million dollars in small arms were imported into the continent in 2005. Beyond legal trade, the illicit trade of small arms and light weapons also has a great effect on Africa. Many of the illicit trade among small arms in Africa can be attributed to post-conflict removal and movement of weapons. This illegal transfer of weapons from country-to-country has been seen to incite conflict in bordering regions by the same armed groups. An example of this can be seen in the conflicts ranging from Liberia, moving towards Sierra-Leone, the Ivory Coast, and finally to Guinea. Another illicit trade of small arms is seen in craft production. Reports from arms analysts Matt Schroeder and Guy Lamb suggest that the country Ghana has the potential to yield 200,000 new weapons every year. The consequences of small arms on African people due to international conflicts within Africa, rebel group activities, mercenary groups, and armed gang activities have yet to be fully measured. The International Action Network on Small Arms, Saferworld, and Oxfam International put it in perspective when they reported that armed conflict cost Africa $18 billion each year and about USD$300 billion between 1990-2005. During this period, 23 African nations experienced war: Algeria, Angola, Burundi, Central Africa Republic, Chad, Democratic Republic of Congo (DRC), Republic of Congo, Côte d'Ivoire, Djibouti, Eritrea, Ethiopia, Ghana, Guinea, Guinea-Bissau, Liberia, Niger, Nigeria, Rwanda, Senegal, Sierra Leone, South Africa, Sudan, and Uganda.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "8913576", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8913576", "title": "Spanner (journal)", "text": "Spanner (journal)\n\nSpanner was a British journal on non-market socialism.\n\nIn October 1987 the Guildford branch of the Socialist Party of Great Britain circulated a discussion document around the Party which was to create controversy. It arose from discussions within the Party as to how socialist society could be organised to most effectively solve the problems left by capitalism. The document, entitled \"The Road To Socialism\", questioned at a fundamental level the Socialist Party's established view of how socialism is likely to come about, labelling it the \"Big Bang\" theory of revolution. It argued that the Party needed to develop \"a more sophisticated multi-dimensional model of socialist transformation which nevertheless incorporates the more useful insights of the old theory\", but it was precisely what was meant by \"multi-dimensional\" that was to cause difficulties.\n\nWhat Guildford had in mind was that the growing socialist movement would have a profound economic impact on the operation of capitalism before the overthrow of the capitalist class and the formal establishment of socialism. They claimed that socialists would use their influence politically (through the legislature and local councils) to adjust patterns of state income and expenditure in ‘socialistic’ directions, including the provision of free services. Drawing inspiration from writers like André Gorz, they also claimed that socialists would be encouraging the growth of the non-monetary, voluntary sector of the economy and should be instrumental in developing support networks for co-operatives and LETS schemes.\n\nIn short, Guildford's vision was a gradualist one in which the materialist conception of history as applied to the coming of socialism was turned on its head: the economic structure of society would be essentially transformed before the socialist capture of political power, rather than afterwards. In the Guildford scenario, the capturing of political power would merely be a mopping-up exercise, designed to dispense with the remaining capitalist areas of the economy.\n\nThis critique of the Party's revolutionary strategy was vigorously rebutted in other circulars from branches and members and at Party conference, the Guildford perspective only receiving limited support from outside the branch itself. While most members readily acknowledged that the growth of the socialist movement would have profound and perhaps unpredictable impacts, and while it was the already established Party position that socialists would be organised on the economic front as well as the political front to ensure the smooth changeover of production and distribution from capitalism to socialism, this did not equate with seeking to mould capitalism into socialism from within, in a gradual way. As the Party had long attacked co-operatives and the idea that the state\ncould increasingly give away services for ‘free’, the Guildford perspective made little headway and its critique was largely dismissed as a caricature of the Party's conception of socialist revolution.\n\nNobody was expelled over the matter, though a small number of members resigned. They went on to publish the journal \"Spanner\", so-called because it aimed to ‘span’ opinion across the non-market socialist sector of political thought, and in recent years some have been instrumental in founding the small World In Common group.\n\n"}
{"id": "46408113", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46408113", "title": "Supreme Ruler Ultimate", "text": "Supreme Ruler Ultimate\n\nSupreme Ruler Ultimate is a grand strategy video game developed by BattleGoat Studios. It is the fifth installment in the Supreme Ruler series and was released on October 17, 2014. The game is the sequel to \"Supreme Ruler 1936\". It is essentially a compilation release, streamlining \"Supreme Ruler 2020\", \"Supreme Ruler Cold War\", and \"Supreme Ruler 1936\" into one game, using the same UI as \"1936\", as well as adding additional features and gameplay.\n\n\"Supreme Ruler Ultimate\" generally operates as a real-time strategy game, but the player is able to pause the game and choose the game speed. In the game the player tries to control a country they have chosen. War is a dominant theme in the game with its military element played in battalion-sized units created by the player during the game. There is also a detailed economic aspect that records a large variety of statistics including under and over employment and natural resources. AI nations work on the same economy system as the player so for example if no one produces enough oil everybody will suffer.\n\nPlayers can choose from nearly any existing country as their starting region, and some sandboxes and scenarios feature sub-national divisions to choose from (such as US States or European ethnic regions).\n\nStarting eras of the game sandboxes include:\n\n\nRegions are controlled through a number of \"cabinet departments\" consisting of:\n\n\n\"Supreme Ruler Ultimate\" was developed and published by BattleGoat Studios on Steam (software). The game uses the proprietary \"BattleGoat Game Engine\" that has been used and updated since the release of the original Supreme Ruler 2010 game in 2005. The Supreme Ruler games series is a modern update of the original Supreme Ruler game first released for the TRS-80 microcomputer in 1982. Game developer George Geczy created the original game and has been the technical lead and primary programmer in each of the modern game releases.\n\n\"Supreme Ruler Ultimate\" was released to the public on Steam for Windows and Mac OSX on October 17, 2014.\n\nIn a review of the game at Armchair General (magazine), Robert Mackey wrote that \"Overall, the game does fine for what it is designed to do—provide a playable, real-time grand-strategy game covering 150 years or so of modern (and future) history.\"\n\nNeal Sayatovich at Game Industry News, wrote that \"Supreme Ruler Ultimate should be the ultimate go-to wargame on your list.\"\n\n\n"}
{"id": "10437686", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10437686", "title": "Teller (elections)", "text": "Teller (elections)\n\nA teller is a person who counts the votes in an election, vote, referendum or poll. Tellers are also known as scrutineers, poll-watchers, challengers or checkers.\n\nThey should be distinguished from polling agents and counting agents who officially represent candidates.\n\nIn the United Kingdom, tellers work on behalf of political parties (usually as volunteers). They stand or sit outside the polling station and collect electoral registration numbers (poll numbers) of voters as they enter or leave. They play no official part in the election and voters are under no obligation to speak with them. They are not polling agents, so they have no official rights, such as to enter the polling station. If asked, the tellers must explain they are not officials and why they are collecting poll numbers.\n\nTellers help their parties identify supporters who have not yet voted, so that they can be contacted and encouraged to vote, and offered assistance—such as transport to the polling station—if necessary. In as far as this increases turn-out, it can be said to be \"good\" for the democratic process, since a higher voter turnout is generally considered desirable.\n\nPolice officers may intervene if tellers \"irritate voters, exert undue influence or obstruct the polling station.\" \nSometimes, some or all of the main parties might reach an agreement to take shifts, and pass on their lists to the other parties; however it is commonplace to see several tellers outside a polling station.\n\nAfter the May 2005 Northern Ireland elections, the Electoral Commission concluded that some candidates' polling agents unlawfully assisted with identifying supporters who had not yet voted, by passing information from inside the polling place to other party workers. This information is not normally available to parties unless voters give it voluntarily to tellers.\n\nIn other deliberative assemblies, such as voluntary associations, elections and other matters of importance are frequently voted on by ballot. Tellers are appointed to count those ballots. Normally, the chairman appoints the tellers unless the organization's rules provide that tellers are appointed another way, such as appointment of an elections committee. The tellers are chosen for their accuracy and dependability, are not directly involved on what is being voted in, and usually are allowed to vote themselves.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "38394619", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38394619", "title": "Trade globalization", "text": "Trade globalization\n\nTrade globalization is a type of economic globalization and a measure (economic indicator) of economic integration. On a national scale, it loosely represents the proportion of all production that crosses the boundaries of a country, as well as the number of jobs in that country dependent upon external trade. On a global scale, it represents the proportion of all world production that is used for imports and exports between countries.\n\n\n\nPreyer and Brös provide a simple operationalization of trade globalization as \"the proportion of all world production that crosses international boundaries\". Chase-Dunn et al. note that trade globalization is one of the types of economic globalization, and define trade globalization as \"the extent to which the long-distance and global exchange of commodities has increased (or decreased) relative to the exchange of commodities within national societies\", and precisely operationalize it as \"the sum of all international exports as a percentage of the global product, which is the sum of all the national gross domestic products (GDPs).\" Erreygers and Vermeire define trade globalization as \"the degree of dissimilarity between the actual distribution of bilateral trade flows and their gravity benchmark, determined only by size and distance.\" They note that trade globalization would be maximized in a situation where only size and distance affected the intensity of bilateral trade flows - in other words, in a situation where neither trade barriers nor other factors would matter.\n\nSalvatore Babones notes that trade globalization is the indicator of a country's level of globalization most commonly used in empirical literature. Data for most countries in the modern era are available from the World Bank World Development Indicators database.\n\nChase-Dunn et al. note that there have been cyclical waves of trade globalization, with declines corresponding to wars and economic depressions, and that there has been a steady trend over the centuries for trade globalization to increase. With regards to the modern age, trade globalization increased until 1880, then decreased until 1905, increased again until 1914, decreased during World War I, increased until 1929, decreased until the end of World War II, and has been growing steadily since. They note that the main explanatory factors in this trend are the continued decline in transportation and communication costs, and stability provided by the \"hegemonic system\" supportive of trade in recent world-systems. Decreases can be explained by wars, and periods of conflict and tension often leading to them, where international actors cannot reach consensus on trade agreements and usually give in to protectionism.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "50754812", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50754812", "title": "United Romania Party", "text": "United Romania Party\n\nThe United Romania Party (\"Partidul România Unită\") is a Romanian nationalist political party. It was founded by former Social Democratic Party member Bogdan Diaconu, who announced the party's creation in 2014.\n\nThe party claims to adhere to a \"national-democratic\" doctrine based on the ideas of Romanian historian and politician Nicolae Iorga and centered on principles of social justice, economic protectionism, Romanian nationalism and anticorruption. According to a resolution adopted in September 2015, it opposes migrant quotas, same-sex marriage, adoption of the euro, and the Transatlantic Trade and Investment Partnership (TTIP), among others. In the 2016 Romanian legislative election, the party received 207,608 votes in the Senate election, and 196,602 in the election to the Chamber of Deputies, not achieving the parliamentary status.\n"}
{"id": "30873521", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30873521", "title": "Unión Militar Republicana Antifascista", "text": "Unión Militar Republicana Antifascista\n\nThe Unión Militar Republicana Antifascista (UMRA, Republican Antifascist Military Union) was a self-described anti-fascist organization for members of the Spanish Republican Armed Forces in Spain during the Second Spanish Republic.\n\nBy 1935 the Unión Militar Española (UME), a secret military organization of pro-fascist officers of the Spanish Republican Armed Forces had extended its influence among Spanish officers and began displaying open hostility towards the Spanish Republic. In order to oppose and neutralize this movement, Eugenio Rodríguez Sierra, an officer of the Spanish Republican Navy was instrumental in the foundation of the Military Antifascist Union, \"Unión Militar Antifascista (UMA)\". The \"Unión Militar Antifascista\" was later merged with the Republican Military Union, \"Unión Militar Republicana (UMR)\", another group of similar goals that had been founded in 1929 within the Army, in order to create the \"Unión Militar Republicana Antifascista (UMRA)\".\n\nOne of the members of UMRA, Captain Carlos Faraudo, would be blacklisted by Unión Militar Española. He had allegedly been placed at the top of the list before being murdered. Membership of this secret society was especially high among the Assault Guard. One of its leading members, Captain Díaz Tendero, was later to perish at the Mauthausen-Gusen concentration camp.\n"}
{"id": "31645232", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31645232", "title": "Vice President of Ciskei", "text": "Vice President of Ciskei\n\nThe Vice President of Ciskei was a political position in that republic. The Vice President was appointed as a deputy by the President.\n\nRev. Willie Xaba held the office between December 1981 and 1983.\n"}
{"id": "26505207", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26505207", "title": "Watts Up With That?", "text": "Watts Up With That?\n\nWatts Up With That? (or WUWT) is a blog promoting climate change denial that was created by Anthony Watts in 2006.\n\nThe blog predominantly discusses climate issues with a focus on anthropogenic climate change, generally accommodating beliefs that are in opposition to the scientific consensus on climate change. Contributors include Christopher Monckton and Fred Singer as guest authors. In November 2009, the blog was one of the first websites to publish emails and documents from the Climatic Research Unit controversy, and a driving force behind its coverage.\n\nIn the early months of 2010, it was reported the site might be \"the most read climate blog in the world,\" and in 2013 Michael E. Mann referred to it as the leading climate change denial blog.\n\n\"Watts Up With That\" features material disputing the scientific consensus on climate change, including claims the human role in global warming is insignificant and carbon dioxide is not a driving force of warming. It hosts several contributors, such as Christopher Monckton and Fred Singer, in addition to Watts. It is among the most prominent climate change denial blogs, and is described by climatologist Michael E. Mann as the most popular, having surpassed Climate Audit. Columbia Journalism School writer Curtis Brainard has written that \"scientists have repeatedly criticized [Watts] for misleading readers on subjects such as the reliability of the U.S. surface temperature record.\"\n\nIn 2007 \"WUWT\" readers alerted Stephen McIntyre to a discrepancy in temperature records published by the Goddard Institute for Space Studies (GISS) based on data from United States Historical Climate Network. In August 2007, McIntyre notified GISS about the problematic numbers, which GISS acknowledged and promptly corrected. The change did not affect global temperature trends, but did have the marginal effect of changing the hottest year on record for the contiguous United States to 1934, rather than 1998 as had previously been shown. In a formal acknowledgement, GISS stated that the minor data processing error had only affected the years after 2000, and noted that the contiguous United States represents only 1.6% of the Earth's surface. The result was a statistical tie between the years 1934, 1998 and 2005 as the warmest years to date for these U.S. states, with 1934 warmest by only around 0.01 °C which was well within the margin of uncertainty.\n\nIn 2009, Watts Up With That was involved in popularizing the Climatic Research Unit email controversy, wherein emails of several climatologists were published by a hacker. The story was initially broken on \"WUWT\" and two other blogs when the hacker posted a link to a Russian server containing emails and documents from the Climate Research Unit of the University of East Anglia, and subsequently reproduced on the \"WUWT\" blog. Because of \"WUWT's\" high traffic count, this was the catalyst which broke the story to the media. The term \"Climategate\" was originally coined by a commenter in a post on WUWT.\n\nWatts argued that the emails showed the scientists were manipulating data, and while a series of independent investigations cleared the scientists of any wrongdoing, public accusations resulting from the event continued for years. The scientific consensus that global warming is occurring as a result of human activity remained unchanged throughout the investigations, however, the reports may have decreased public confidence in climate scientists and the IPCC, and conclusively altered the Copenhagen negotiations that year.\n\nIn a 2010 interview with the \"Financial Times\", Watts said that his blog had become \"busier than ever\" after the incident and that traffic to the site had tripled.\n\nAccording to Alexa internet statistical analysis, \"What's Up With That?\" is ranked No. 14,882 in the U.S. and No. 40,090 world-wide. It is reported to receive between half a million and 2 million visits per month between 2010 and 2014. It was described by climatologist Michael E. Mann in \"The Hockey Stick and the Climate Wars\" as \"the leading climate change denial blog,\" having surpassed Climate Audit in popularity.\n\nWatts's blog has been criticized for inaccuracy. \"The Guardian\" columnist George Monbiot described WUWT as \"highly partisan and untrustworthy\". Leo Hickman, at \"The Guardian\"'s Environment Blog, also criticized Watts's blog, stating that Watts \"risks polluting his legitimate scepticism about the scientific processes and methodologies underpinning climate science with his accompanying politicised commentary.\"\n\nBetween 2008 and 2013, WUWT asked its readers to vote in several internet voting-based awards, and it won \"best science blog\" and \"best blog\" from the Bloggies and the conservative Wizbang Weblog Awards. In 2013, Leo Hickman wrote in The Guardian Environment Blog that 13 of the 17 blogs nominated for the Science or Technology category for the Bloggies \"were either run by climate sceptics, or popular with climate sceptics\". The Bloggies founder acknowledged in 2013 that climate skeptic bloggers had influenced voting. He said \"Unfortunately, I have no good solution for it, since they follow proper voting procedures and legitimate science blogs don't want to make an effort to compete.\" He discontinued the science category in 2014. \"WUWT\" did not win \"Best Topical Weblog of the Year\" 2014 as Watts claimed, but did enter the Hall of Fame that year.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "25728457", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25728457", "title": "Working Women's Union", "text": "Working Women's Union\n\nThe Working Women's Union (, abbreviated UFM) was a women's organization in interbellum Romania, and the women's wing of the Social Democratic Party of Romania. As of 1947, UFM claimed to have 123,561 members.\n"}
