{"id": "35769029", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35769029", "title": "A Manifesto for a Re-appraisal of Sinology and Reconstruction of Chinese Culture", "text": "A Manifesto for a Re-appraisal of Sinology and Reconstruction of Chinese Culture\n\n\"A Manifesto for a Re-appraisal of Sinology and Reconstruction of Chinese Culture\" (为中国文化敬告世界人士宣言; \"Wei Zhongguo Wenua Jinggao Shijie Renshi Xuanyan\"; also translated as “Declaration on Behalf of Chinese Culture Respectfully Announced to the People of the World”) is an essay originally published in China and Taiwan in 1958. The essay's collective authors included Carsun Chang (Zhang Junmai), Tang Chun-I (Tang Junyi), Mou Tsung-san (Mou Zongsan), and Hsu Fo-kuan (Xu Fuguan), all “New Confucianism” scholars and notable students of Xiong Shili.\n\nThe essay was first published in the journals \"Democratic Critique\" and the \"National Renaissance\". It aimed to educate Western peoples with proper ways of appreciating Chinese culture. The Manifesto marked an important starting point for New Confucianism and while its significance towards ideology is debated, the essay's cohesion led to a shared identity and revival for Confucian thought. Many of the individual views of these four scholars differed but this essay issued a “common conviction” of the misunderstandings associated with Chinese culture as narrated by Western history and thought. In rejecting wholesale Westernization the essay “demands a place for Chinese cultural values on the world stage.” The essay declares a new, proper manner in which to pursue the study of Sinology and explains Chinese culture from an experience viewpoint instead of an academic one. In Serina Chan's summary, the Manifesto advocates “post-colonial cultural nationalist discourse for cultural parity between China and the West in the midst of continuing Euro-American cultural dominance…(and) the document served to move the authors' Han Chinese cultural nationalist discourse into an imagined global arena for an ideological contest between Chinese and Western Cultures.”\n\nThe essay indicates three main approaches and subsequent failures in the Western study of Sinology. The scholars attributed these shortcomings to Christian missionaries, Sinologists or those who study Chinese history, and to members of the present world politics. Each of these three approaches presented an insufficient explanation of Chinese culture to the West and required the creation of a new approach to foster respect for Chinese culture on the world stage.\nChristian Missionaries The Manifesto claims “Chinese thought was first introduced into the Western world some three hundred years ago by Jesuit missionaries, who had come to China to spread Christianity and incidentally scientific knowledge and technological skills.” The religious motives of the Christian missionaries accounted for differences in ideology, specifically with the Chinese Sung-Ming “emphasis on rationalism and idealism”. The Chinese scholars highlighted the interplay between the “way of heaven” (tiandao) and “the way of man” (rendao) in the revival of Confucianism, creating differences in religious thought with the Christian missionaries. The essay argues “Chinese culture arose out of the extension of primordial religious passion to ethical moral principles and to daily living. For this reason... its religious aspects have not been developed…” The difference in cultural and religious values created misunderstandings between the two cultures, and fostered a bias in the cultural diffusion associated with Christian missionaries and their trips to China.\nSinologists/Myth of Chinese Antiquity The second approach that the New Confucian scholars denied is that taken by students and thinkers of Western Sinology. According to the manifesto, the new interest fostered by the Open Door Policy and the Boxer Rebellion led to curiosity about Chinese goods and history. “The objects of this interest soon included fine arts, archaeology, geography, history of frontier development, history of East-West communications, and even the characteristics of the written and oral language…” The issue taken up by the scholars was not in the curiosity towards Chinese artifacts, but to the apparent disinterest in the living, modern nation and its growth. The newfound awareness of China’s antiquity downplayed the importance of China as a modern nation and actor on the world’s stage. This study of antiquity “became the standard methodology of sinology” and portrayed an outdated and single faceted image of China as a country, a view the authors of the manifesto strongly disagreed with.\nPolitical Motivations The last failed approach is an interest in the modern history of China and the viewing of China's “past through the present”. Blaming the predominantly Western leading historians of contemporary China, the authors of the manifesto claim to uncover varying attitudes and biases towards present political situations in China. All feelings and analysis of the past are influenced too heavily by the present and by “personal feelings and subjective attitude” to be a realistic depiction of Chinese culture for the West. While the study of antiquity was too outdated for the manifesto, the study of modernity was too biased by present political motives.\n\nThe “new approach” asserted by the authors of the manifesto relies on “sympathy and reverence for the culture” in order to fully understand Chinese culture. Culture according to the manifesto is defined as: “the objective expression of the spiritual life of mankind,” and this spiritual life must be experienced to be fully understood. The mistake made in the previous three approaches to Sinology has been in the refusal to accept or understand the life of the object of study. The manifesto states that “we can indeed say that without sympathy and respect there can be no real comprehension. What one experiences is mere appearance; one must dig beneath this appearance in order to communicate with the heart and soul of what lies hidden within it.” \nThe Doctrine of “Hsin-Hsing” The doctrine that the manifesto claims is most neglected by Western Sinologists is the “concentration of mind on an exhaustive study of the nature of the universe.” This is the basis of all theories related to Chinese culture, and with a full grasp of “Hsin-Hsing” (literally “mind-nature”; \"xinxing\" 心性) one is able to understand the successes and limitations of Chinese culture. This doctrine allows for a development of the Chinese moral subject in harmony with the universe; but also displays the lack of development in “the political subject, the knowing subject, and the technological subject” in relation to the West. The rationale behind this is the differences in history between China and its Western counterparts. Western society has pluralistic origins in “Greek reason, Hebrew faith, and Roman Law,” while China’s culture emphasizes on “\"yiben\" 一本” or “one foundation”. This changes the values associated with each culture, as China focuses more on the development of moral individuals it places less importance on competition and technological progress in comparison with the West. To truly study Sinology the manifesto states that the researcher must study this one foundation or “Hsin-Hsin” to experience the culture as a living, objective being. After this understanding is achieved, the limitations of Chinese culture are uncovered along with the successes. The “New Approach” does not all together denounce Western culture. It urges the Chinese to learn Western systems of logic, natural sciences, technological advances, and institutions of democratic government. The synthesis of the cultures requires a respectful learning and appreciation of what each has to offer in order to better both sides of the world.\n\nThe manifesto makes recommendations for Chinese culture to accept scientific and technological advances, but more clearly lays out lessons for the West to learn. The list includes five elements that, according to the manifesto, “the west must also learn from the East if it is to carry out its task as the world’s cultural leader.” The cultivation of a world culture, as well as promoting Chinese culture to the world’s stage are primary goals of the manifesto and in order for either cultures to succeed they must engage in authentic communication. The manifesto dictates that the West needs the spirit and capacity of sensing the presence of what is at every particular moment, and of giving up everything that can be had. The second element is the all-embracing understanding or wisdom, third is the feeling of mildness and compassion. Fourth is how to perpetuate its culture, and the fifth that the “whole world is like one family.” The signers of the manifesto asserted that by accepting New Confucianism in accordance with aspects of Western culture, the future of mankind can transform to be a more open, inclusive and creative culture.\n\n\"Manifesto For A Reappraisal Of Sinology And The Reconstruction Of Chinese Culture,\" in \n"}
{"id": "2318520", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2318520", "title": "Abu Tahir Marwazi", "text": "Abu Tahir Marwazi\n\nQotb al-Zaman Muhammad Abu Tahir Marwazi was a 12th-century prominent Persian philosopher from Khwarezmia.\n\nHe died in Sarakhs in Iran in 1144CE.\n\n"}
{"id": "35960049", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35960049", "title": "Andrew Bowie", "text": "Andrew Bowie\n\nAndrew S. Bowie (born 1952) is Professor of Philosophy and German at Royal Holloway, University of London and Founding Director of the Humanities and Arts Research Centre (HARC).\n\nHe has worked to promote a better understanding of German philosophy in the Anglophone analytical tradition - including the works of Johann Georg Hamann, Johann Gottfried von Herder, Immanuel Kant, Johann Gottlieb Fichte, Georg Wilhelm Friedrich Hegel, Novalis (Friedrich von Hardenberg), Friedrich Wilhelm Joseph Schelling, Karl Wilhelm Friedrich Schlegel, Karl Marx, Friedrich Nietzsche, Walter Benjamin, Martin Heidegger, Hans-Georg Gadamer, Theodor W. Adorno, Jürgen Habermas, Albrecht Wellmer and Manfred Frank.\n\nFrank and Habermas have spoken highly of his work in this area - with Habermas calling his work \"masterly\" and Frank calling him an \"exceptional scholar\", whose work represents \"the most knowledgeable presentation in English of the history of the German contribution to so-called continental philosophy\". The philosopher Charles Taylor has described his work on music as \"excellent and densely argued\".\n\nHe has translated the works of Friedrich Wilhelm Joseph Schelling and Friedrich Schleiermacher. His recent work has focused on music and philosophy, and Adorno on the nature of philosophy. In addition to his philosophical work on music, he is a keen jazz saxophonist and has played with leading contemporary jazz musicians such as \nAl Casey and Humphrey Lyttelton.\n\nHe did his doctoral research on \"History and the Novel\" (1980) at the University of East Anglia, where he was taught by the renowned German writer and scholar W. G. Sebald (who later cited Bowie's work on Alexander Kluge in his \"Campo Santo\"). He studied German philosophy at the Free University of Berlin. He was Professor of Philosophy at Anglia Ruskin University until 1999. He was also Alexander von Humboldt Research Fellow at the Philosophy department of Tübingen University. He is on the Advisory Council for the Institute of Philosophy.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "5402115", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5402115", "title": "Charisticary", "text": "Charisticary\n\nA charisticary is a person to whom is given the enjoyment of the revenues of a monastery, hospital, or benefice, also known as a \"comendatory\" or \"donatory\".\n\nThe charisticaries among the Ancient Greeks were a kind of donatories who enjoyed all the revenues of hospitals and monasteries, without giving an account thereof to any person. Iconoclasts who have abused this in the past include Constantine Copronymus, the avowed enemy of the monks, whose monasteries he gave away to strangers.\n\nIn later times, the emperors and patriarchs gave many to upper-class people, not by way of gift, to reap any temporal advantage from; but to repair, beautify, and patronize them. Eventually, those in good condition were given, especially such as were rich; and at last they were all given away, rich and poor, those of men and of women; and that to laymen and married men.\n\nJean-Baptiste Cotelier, in his \"Ecclesiae Graecae Monumenta\", gives the form of these donations: they were given for life, or sometimes for two lives.\n"}
{"id": "41219531", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41219531", "title": "Charles B. Martin", "text": "Charles B. Martin\n\nCharles B. Martin (1924–2008) was an Australian philosopher noted for work in metaphysics and the philosophy of mind. \n\nMartin was Professor of Philosophy at the University of Calgary, Chair of Philosophy at the University of Sydney, and past President of the Australasian Philosophical Association. Inspired by John Locke, he was an early proponent of causal theories of perception, knowledge, and memory, and a principal architect of Australian metaphysical realism. He advocated an uncompromising materialist conception of minds as complex neurologically based propensities for the manipulation of sensory materials. The \"ofness\" and \"aboutness\" of thoughts and images arises from their dispositional realizations in the nervous system. More generally, Martin held that property instances invariably possess both dispositional and non-dispositional aspects, and that causal transactions are best regarded, not as relations between distinct events, but as the \"mutual manifestations of reciprocal dispositional property partners.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "51517915", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51517915", "title": "Clemens Scholten", "text": "Clemens Scholten\n\nClemens Scholten (born 1955), the major contemporary authority on the works of the sixth century Christian Alexandrian philosopher John Philopon, teaches in the Catholic Theology and Philosophy departments of the University of Cologne. Earlier publications were devoted to Nag Hammadi and the Alexandrian Catechetical School. Scholten has also recently edited a work of Theodoret.\n\nDie alexandrinische Katechetenschule, 1995\n\nAntike Naturphilosopĥie und christliche Kosmologie in der Schrift \"De Opificio Mundi\" des Johannes Philoponos [Patristische Texte und Studien 45], De Gruyter 1996\n\nJohannes Philoponos, De Opificio Mundi = Uber die Erschaffung der Welt [ Fontes Christiani 23/1,2,3], Brepols 1997\n\nJohannes Philoponos, De Aeternitate Mundi = Uber die Ewigkeit der Welt [ Fontes Christiani 64/1,2,3,4,5], Brepols 2009-2011\n\nTheodoret, De Graecorum Affectione Curatione: Heilung der Griechischen Krankheiten [ Vigiliae Christianae ], Brill 2015\n\nJSTOR:41 Related Entries\n"}
{"id": "24786349", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24786349", "title": "David S. Oderberg", "text": "David S. Oderberg\n\nProfessor David S. Oderberg (born 1963) is an Australian philosopher of metaphysics and ethics based in Britain since 1987. He is Professor of Philosophy at the University of Reading. He describes himself as a non-consequentialist or a traditionalist in his works. Broadly speaking, Oderberg places himself in opposition to Peter Singer and other utilitarian or consequentialist thinkers. He has published over thirty academic papers and has authored four books, \"Real Essentialism\", \"Applied Ethics\", \"Moral Theory\", and \"The Metaphysics of Identity over Time\". Professor Oderberg is an alumnus of the Universities of Melbourne, where he completed his first degrees, and Oxford where he gained his D.Phil.\n\nHe was appointed editor of \"Ratio\", the philosophical quarterly, in late 2012.\n\n\"Applied Ethics\", which was first published in 2000, has become one of the most important of Oderberg's works. Oderberg applies his classical viewpoint to some controversial ethical issues: abortion, euthanasia, animal rights, capital punishment and the just war theory. Oderberg provides a detailed defence of the view that abortion is morally wrong because the fetus is an innocent life, and intentionally taking an innocent life is always morally wrong. He aims to refute views like those of Peter Singer, who suggests that we deny that it is always wrong to intentionally kill innocent human beings. Oderberg compares legalised abortion to contract killing, arguing that the state has no more right to legalise and regulate abortion on the ground that this would take it out of the 'back street,' than it does to legalise and regulate contract killing on the same ground. On the subject of euthanasia, he argues that it too is immoral, because, like abortion, it involves the intentional killing of an innocent human being. Voluntary euthanasia is no more justifiable than involuntary, since a person has no absolute right to do whatever they want with their body. Furthermore, he believes the current scientific definition of brain death is unsatisfactory both on metaphysical grounds and from an ethical point of view. Oderberg's position on animal rights is similar to that of Aquinas – rejecting in principle the idea that humans have duties to animals because they are not moral agents, he nonetheless believes that humans still have duties in respect of them to treat them kindly. On the death penalty, Oderberg supports the state's right to enforce capital punishment, because justice must be retributive and death, being the worst punishment, is the suitable punishment for the worst crime – e.g. murder. Oderberg supports just war theory, and believes that civilians who do not contribute to the war effort should not be targeted. In virtue of this, he regards the use of atomic warfare in World War II to have been a seriously immoral act. He also regards contraception as immoral, and exhorts 'pro-lifers' like himself to engage in 'campaigning, protesting, writing, or whatever it is that we do best in defending the pro-life cause.'\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "42566520", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42566520", "title": "Dehat Bibi", "text": "Dehat Bibi\n\nDehat Bibi, also known as Dehat Ded, was a disciple of Sheikh Noor-Ud-Din (Nund Reshi), the patron saint of Kashmir. She along with her sister Behat Bibi are sometimes referred as Tsat'a Kori, literally girl disciples or girl students of Nund Reshi. Behat Bibi and Dehat Bibi were daughters of a Kashmiri pundit who was a village Patwari by profession and had converted to Islam under the influence of the Sufi saint.\n\nThe exalted state of their spirituality and the depth and breadth of their knowledge is testified by the fact that the two girls became the only known female khalifas of Nund Reshi. They are both buried at a village named Zalsu, a few miles from the village of Tsaar (Chrar Sharif) in the valley of Kashmir. The two sisters were present at a meeting that took place between Sheikh Noor-Ud-Din and the proselytizer Saiyed Muhammad Hamadani. The presence of two female disciples in such an important meeting confirms that they were regarded highly by the Reshi.\n\nWhen Hamadani saw the physically weak Reshi, he remarked that he (Nund Reshi) should not keep his horse (his body) in such a weak condition. To that, Reshi replied that to control once “nafas” (physical needs) was very important because otherwise just like a well-fed horse it could become unmanageable. Dehat Bibi is said to have remarked, “Those who have already reached their destination or goal do not need a ride or a whip.” To this, Saiyed Hamadani is supposed to have asked her, who did she think had reached that goal? Dehat Bibi is said to have replied, “Those who have liberated themselves from the clutches of self.” When asked if she was a girl or a boy, Dehat Bibi’s answer was simple yet filled with such profound depth that it left everyone speechless; “If I am non-existent (\"neest\" in the Persian language) then I am neither a girl nor a boy; but if I am existent (\"hast\" in Persian), then I am nothing.” \n\nBaba Kamal. \"Reshinama\", p. 169-176.\nMohammad Ishaq Khan(2011). \"Sufis Of Kashmir\", p. 105. Gulshan Books, Srinagar, Kashmir. .\n"}
{"id": "58928169", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58928169", "title": "Differential argument marking", "text": "Differential argument marking\n\nDifferential argument marking (DAM) is a cover term for when languages encode the same grammatical function (e.g. subject or object) in different ways. It includes non-uniform encoding of arguments in terms of case marking, but also in terms of the presence or absence of agreement on the verb. The term \"differential marking\" – specifically \"differential object marking\" or \"DOM\" – was coined by Georg Bossong in relation to his work on Sardinian and New Iranian languages. However, in recent years there has been a growing interest in the great variety of differential marking patterns across the world's languages in both formal and functional linguistics.\n\nThere are several sub-types of differential argument marking depending on the grammatical function and/or semantic role of the differentially-marked argument:\n\n\nThe most widely studied are differential object marking and differential subject marking (which is sometimes also known as optional ergative marking).\n\nDifferential marking is known to be affected by a range of semantic and information structure factors. These include semantic properties of the argument such as animacy, definiteness and referentiality. It also includes properties related to the event semantics, such as the affectedness of arguments or the level of volitionality or control. Finally, in many languages, differential marking is related to the status of arguments as either topical or focal. There appear to be cross-linguistic differences in the triggering factors depending on whether the subject (agent) or object (patient) is differentially-marked.\n"}
{"id": "1990569", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1990569", "title": "Divine Mercy image", "text": "Divine Mercy image\n\nThe Divine Mercy image is a depiction of Jesus based on the devotion initiated by Saint Faustina Kowalska.\n\n\"I promise that the soul that will venerate this image will not perish,\" Jesus told Faustina, according to her diary, which has been studied and authenticated by the Church over several decades. \"I also promise victory over enemies already here on earth, especially at the hour of death. I myself will defend it as My own glory.\" (Diary of Faustina, 48)\n\nJesus is shown in most versions as raising his right hand in blessing, and pointing with his left hand on his chest from which flow forth two rays: one red and one white (translucent). The depictions often contains the message \"Jesus, I trust in You!\" (Polish: \"Jezu ufam Tobie\"). The rays streaming out have symbolic meaning: red for the blood of Jesus (which is the Life of Souls), and pale for the water (which justify souls) (from Diary - 299). The whole image is symbolic of charity, forgiveness and love of God, referred to as the \"Fountain of Mercy\". According to the diary of St Faustina, the image is based on her 1931 vision of Jesus.\n\nA number of artistic renditions of the image (including that by Adolf Hyła in Kraków) have appeared since Faustina directed the painting of the first image in Vilnius (artist Eugeniusz Kazimirowski). These are widely venerated worldwide, and are used in the celebration of Divine Mercy Sunday, observed in Roman Catholic, as well as some Anglican churches.\n\nFaustina Kowalska was a Polish nun who joined the convent of Our Lady of Mercy in Warsaw 1925. In her diary, which was later published as the book \"\", Faustina wrote about a number of visions of Jesus and conversations with him. Her confessor was Michael Sopocko, a priest and a professor of theology.\n\nIn 1930, Faustina was assigned to the convent in Płock, Poland. Faustina stated that whilst she was in her cell on the night of Sunday, 22 February 1931, Jesus appeared to her as the \"King of Divine Mercy\", robed in a white garment.\n\nFaustina wrote that Jesus' right hand was raised in a sign of blessing and the other was touching the garment near his breast, and that from beneath the garment slightly down, aside his breast, emanated two large rays, one red, the other white.\n\nIn her diary (Notebook 1, items 47 and 48), she wrote that Jesus told her:\n\nAnother nun, Sister Christine, later stated that rays of light from the window were visible that night and attracted the attention of people standing on the other side of the street, implying that this was a \"physical\" appearance rather than an interior vision.\n\nNot knowing how to paint, Faustina approached some other nuns at her convent for help, but received no assistance. She attempted to sketch the image with charcoal on canvas, but had little success. In her diary (Notebook 1, item 53), she wrote that Jesus told her that she would receive \"visible help\" with the task. In November 1932, Faustina left Płock and returned to Warsaw, and in May 1933, she was sent to the convent in Vilnius to work as the gardener.\n\nIn Vilnius, Faustina met Father Michael Sopocko, the newly appointed confessor to the nuns. Sopocko supported Faustina's efforts and arranged for the first painting of the image by the artist Eugene Kazimierowski, which was the only rendition Faustina saw. After Faustina's death, a number of other artists painted their own versions of the image, with the depiction by Adolf Hyła being among the most reproduced.\n\nAfter the canonisation of Faustina in April 2000, devotion to the Divine Mercy and the image has increased. The devotional following of the image and Faustina's message has been stronger among Catholics at large than among theologians. Author Benedict Groeschel considers a modest estimate of the following in 2010 to be over one hundred million Catholics.\n\nFaustina's diary relates the rays of light within the image to life and salvation, stating (Notebook 1, item 299) that she was told by Jesus:\n\nFaustina also wrote that Jesus stressed the importance of the image as part of the Divine Mercy devotion, and in Notebook 1, item 327 attributed these words to Jesus:\n\nCatholic devotions thus stress the importance of the image as a \"conduit for grace\" as part of the Divine Mercy message.\n\nFaustina's diary also relates the image to Divine Mercy Sunday. Faustina wrote (Notebook 1, item 49) that Jesus told her that he wanted the Divine Mercy image to be \"solemnly blessed\" on the first Sunday after Easter; and that Sunday was to be the Feast of Mercy.\n\nPope John Paul II instituted \"Divine Mercy Sunday\" (Dominica II Paschae seu de divina misericordia) and placed it on the General Roman Calendar. The Divine Mercy image is often carried in processions on Divine Mercy Sunday, and is placed in a location in the church so that it can be venerated by those who attended the Mass.\n\nThe veneration of the Divine Mercy image also takes place in conjunction with the Divine Mercy Chaplet and Novena. The Vatican biography of Faustina states that the veneration of the Divine Mercy image is part of the second component of her message, namely \"entreating God's mercy for the whole world\". Praying before the Divine Mercy image (with the signature \"Jesus I trust in you\") is not only encouraged in Catholic devotions, but is mentioned as a partial condition for some of the indulgences associated with Divine Mercy Sunday.\n\nThe first painting was by Eugene Kazimierowski, under the supervision of Faustina and her confessor, Michael Sopoćko, in Vilnius. After completion in 1934, the painting hung in the Bernardine Sisters' convent near the church of St. Archangel Michael, where Sopoko was a rector. In her diary, sister Faustina notes that Jesus told her to inform her confessor that the proper place for the painting was in a church, not in the hallway of a convent. The first public exposition of the Kazimierowski rendition was on 26–28 April 1935, at the church of the Gate of Dawn in Vilnius. In 1937, on the Sunday after Easter, the current Feast of Divine Mercy, the picture was put on display beside the main altar in St Michael’s Church, Vilnius. The Soviet authorities, having occupied Lithuania, in 1948 closed St Michael's Church and destroyed the convent. The painting remained in the church building until 1951, when two pious women from Vilnius Bronė Miniotaitė and Janina Rodzevič bought the canvas from a guard and gave it to the parish priest at the Dominican Church of the Holy Spirit for safekeeping. Professional restoration in the spring of 2003 left the image exactly as it was when Eugeniusz Kazimierowski painted it under the direction of Sister Faustina.\n\nSopocko was a professor of theology at the University of Vilnius and introduced Faustina to Kazimierowski, who was professor of art there. Kazimierowski had painted religious images before, but this task was difficult for him. Sopocko himself posed as Jesus for the image, wearing an alb, and both he and Faustina regularly visited the painter‘s workshop. The final painting satisfied neither Sopocko nor Faustina, who later wrote that Christ told her it is not that important that the picture be beautiful. The true beauty, Christ said, would be the blessing that He would bestow to the people by the means of the painting.\n\nThe first Divine Mercy painting by Kazimierowski is currently exposed and devoted at the Sanctuary of the Divine Mercy, Vilnius, in Lithuania.\n\nAnother painting of the Divine Mercy was made by Adolf Hyła, as a votive offering. Through painting this picture, Hyła expressed his gratitude for the survival of his family during World War II.\n\nHyła was given the descriptions from Faustina's diary by the nuns at the convent, and a small copy of the first painting. Hyła's image is somewhat different from Kazimierowski's, as the former figured Jesus as a \"Divine Physician\", walking the earth and healing people. He has Jesus approaching the viewer instead of merely standing. Christ's right hand is lifted up high in benediction, and He is looking into the eyes of the viewer. The original version of this painting had a country landscape in the background, which was removed in a later replica as it was deemed \"non-liturgical\".\n\nThe Hyła rendition is also called the \"Kraków Divine Mercy Image\" because it is kept in the sanctuary at Kraków-Łagiewniki.\n\nBefore Adolf Hyła offered his votive painting, the sisters had commissioned Stanisław Batowski to paint a third version. This was lost in a fire, and Batowski painted a fourth painting which arrived at the convent at almost the same time as Hyła's. Cardinal Sapieha, who happened to be in the convent then, selected the Hyła painting because it was a votive image.\n\nA number of other artists have painted the image, but Hyła's rendition remains the most reproduced one.\n\n\"The image of The Divine Mercy, painted by Adam Styka (1957), [is] displayed in the Sanctuary of The Divine Mercy at the Congregation of Marians in Stockbridge, MA USA.\" (\"Diary\" pictures of images). A popular image was created in 1982 by American artist Robert Skemp. This rendition depicts Jesus standing in front of an arched doorway, with a more pronounced halo about his head. The Skemp and Hyła images are the most ubiquitous depictions found in the Philippines, where the devotion to the Divine Mercy is a popular one.\n\nThe Divine Mercy Shrine, Misamis Oriental, in El Salvador City, Philippines was built in 2008, and has a 15.24-metre (50 foot) statue of the Divine Mercy towering above the shrine.\n\nIn 1959 the Vatican banned the image and devotion to it because of a number of factors. Some Polish bishops questioned Kowalska's claims and were uncomfortable with the image's similarity to the red and white Polish flag. Polish priests were reported to be interpreting the rays as a symbol of the flag. The ban on the image and devotion to it was only lifted on April 15, 1978, due to pressure from future Polish pope, Karol Wojtyła, who was a great advocate for Kowalska.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "46689716", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46689716", "title": "Elder rights", "text": "Elder rights\n\nElder rights are the rights of the aged, who in the United States are not recognized as a constitutionally protected class. \n\nCommon rights issues faced by elders include age-related job discrimination (such as forced age of retirement), lack of access to medical treatments because of age or age-related obstacles, societal perceptions of ability/disability due to age, and vulnerability to abuse, including financial, physical, psychological, social, and sexual because of diminished capacity and lack of access to/ability to use technology.\n\nThe concept of a unique set of needs and rights of the elderly started in 1930s during the Great Depression with the main focus being on the need for a national pension program to provide financial security to the no longer working elderly. Numerous rival plans (the Townsend Plan, the McClain Movement, the Ham and Eggs Movement) were made to address the issue. Eventually, as part of Franklin Delano Roosevelt's New Deal, the Social Security Act was passed to meet the need.\n\nAs the population aged and the aged grew wealthier throughout the second half of the twentieth century, their political influence increased. Organizations such as the American Association of Retired Persons and government bodies such as the Administration on Aging were created to meet their needs. Issues far beyond simple financial security became the focusMaggie Kuhn, angered over her mandatory retirement at 65, launched the Gray Panthers. The National Elder Law Foundation was created out of concern that elderly might have unique legal needs. The 2006 reauthorization of the Older Americans Act included a project called Choices for Independence to develop consumer-directed community-based (as opposed to congregate segregated choices such as traditional nursing homes) long-term care options.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "11087326", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11087326", "title": "Errol Harris", "text": "Errol Harris\n\nErrol Eustace Harris (19 February 1908 – 21 June 2009), sometimes cited as E. E. Harris, was a contemporary South African philosopher. His work focused on developing a systematic and coherent account of the logic, metaphysics, and epistemology implicit in contemporary understanding of the world. Harris held that, in conjunction with empirical science, the Western philosophical tradition, in its commitment to the ideal of reason, contains the resources necessary to accomplish this end. He celebrated his 100th birthday in 2008.\n\nErrol E. Harris was born on 19 February 1908 in Kimberley, South Africa, to parents who had emigrated from Leeds, England. His father, Samuel Jack Harris, had been one of the defenders of Kimberley when he was besieged there (together with Cecil Rhodes) during the Boer War. Errol studied philosophy at Rhodes University in South Africa, where he was a student of A.R. Lord and where he obtained his B.A. and M.A., and at the University of Oxford, where he obtained a B.Litt. degree with a thesis on Samuel Alexander and Alfred North Whitehead.\n\nHe served as an education officer for the British Colonial Service, and during World War II was Chief Instructor of the Middle East Military Education College at Mt. Carmel, Palestine, with the rank of Major in the Education Corps of the British Army. He was succeeded as Chief Instructor by Huw Wheldon, later Managing Director of the BBC; another Instructor was Capt. Michael Stewart, later Foreign Secretary in Harold Wilson's government, and subsequently Baron Stewart of Fulham. Errol Harris received his D. Litt. in philosophy from the University of the Witwatersrand in 1950, where he was secretary, and then president, of the lecturers' association. He became a full professor there in 1953. He served on the executive of the South African Race Relations Board with Chief Luthuli, the Zulu paramount chief, and in this capacity came to know Oliver Tambo (Nelson Mandela's law partner, who succeeded Mandela as president of the ANC.), who advised the Board of the ANC's stand on various issues. Harris's first important philosophical work, \"Nature, Mind and Modern Science\", appeared in 1954. In 1956 he went to the United States to lecture at Yale University and Connecticut College, where he was subsequently appointed Professor of Philosophy. This allowed his philosophical activity to prosper unimpeded and gain growing recognition.\n\nFrom 1959-1960 he was Acting Professor of Logic and Metaphysics at Edinburgh University in Scotland, and then returned to Connecticut College. In 1962 he became Roy Roberts Distinguished Professor of Philosophy at the University of Kansas, and in 1966 Professor of Philosophy at Northwestern University, where he was later named John Evans Professor of Moral and Intellectual Philosophy and where he taught until his retirement in 1976. At the World Congress of Philosophy in Vienna in 1968, he chaired the meeting that established the International Society for Metaphysics. After retirement he taught as a visiting Professor at Marquette, Villanova (as Distinguished Professor of Christian Philosophy) and Emory Universities and was an honorary research fellow at the Centre for Philosophy and History of Science at Boston University. He was President of the Metaphysical Society of America in 1969 (and in 1985 was awarded the Society's Paul Weiss Medal for the outstanding contribution to Metaphysics), and President of the Hegel Society of America in 1977-8. He had a home near Ambleside in the Lake District in England since 1963, taking up permanent residence there in his latter years. He died on 21 June 2009 at the age of 101.\n\nDuring his years at Kansas and Northwestern Harris's major publications included \"The Foundation of Metaphysics in Science\" (1965) and \"Hypothesis and Perception: The Roots of Scientific Method\" (1970). He has also had an abiding historiographic interest in the metaphysics of Baruch Spinoza and G.W.F. Hegel. Spinoza's philosophy is reconstructed, interpreted, and appropriated by Harris in \"Salvation from Despair: A Reappraisal of Spinoza's Philosophy\" (1973). He argued for the cogency, truth, and timeliness of Hegel's speculative logic in \"An Interpretation of the Logic of Hegel\" (1983). In retirement his philosophical activity continued uninterrupted, giving rise to numerous articles and volumes, including \"Formal, Transcendental and Dialectical Thinking: Logic and Reality\" (1987).\n\nHarris holds the epistemological position that philosophical empiricism was insuperably inconsistent in every version found in European thought from Locke to the twentieth-century analytic philosophers. The verification principle, upon which empiricism is grounded, is held by Harris to be intrinsically false because sense perception is devoid of immediate self-evidence, depending on an interpretative context that is a product of thinking's discursive activity. Furthermore, the verification principle is also unable to account for the empiricist epistemologist's claim to truth for his own doctrine. Empiricism's \"fallacy\" is that \"of propounding a theory of knowledge from which, if it is true, the theorist himself must be exempt, and which, if it applies to the theorist himself, must be false\". Nor is empiricism able successfully to overcome the logical antinomies infecting the inductive method, by which it usually tries to explain and justify the genesis and validity of the universal form of scientific theories. Finally, Harris argued that the hypothetico-deductive method, which some empiricists such as Sir Karl Popper employ in order to overcome the shortcomings of the inductive method, is epistemologically unfruitful, owing to its merely analytic and conjectural nature.\n\nHarris does not limit himself to refuting empiricism in a purely logico-immanent way, but also argues that a careful examination of the theoretical results achieved by contemporary physics, biology, and experimental psychology, as well as of the procedures of scientific enquiry, reveals that empiricism is not even in harmony with the specific orientation of contemporary science. He concludes that science supports a world-view that is relativistic, holistic, organicistic, teleological and hierarchical in character—a world-view contradicted by the unconfessed atomistic, mechanical, and pluralistic metaphysical presuppositions of formal and mathematical logic that are wrongly privileged by philosophical empiricism.\n\nHarris maintains that the temporal variation of different metaphysical doctrines cannot be regarded as a procession of discontinuous, subjective opinions whose validity, at best, is confined to particular epochs. On the contrary, he asserts the existence of \"eternal problems in philosophy\" and conceives their historical development as a unique, logically necessary, teleological process through which they progressively achieve more coherent and adequate formulations. Philosophical historiography, therefore, should not simply confine itself to registering the external philological characteristics of the doctrines under consideration without making value judgements about them. Its peculiar task is rather that of discerning in them the true from the false. In his historiographical studies, Harris gives considerable attention to Spinoza's and Hegel's metaphysics.\n\nBy stressing the crucial relevance of Spinoza's doctrines of the infinity of the attribute of the \"cogitatio\", of the \"idea ideae\" and of the \"intellectus infinitus dei\" (the infinite mind of god) as an \"infinite mode\" of substance, Harris disputed what he saw as one-sided empiricist and materialistic interpretations of Spinoza's naturalism. He argues that Spinoza's polemic against the final causes ought to be understood as referring only to the standpoint of external teleology, and consequently that Spinoza does not exclude a valid explanation of natural processes in the light of an inner teleology. On the other hand, Harris also rejects the opposite, mystical or \"acosmistic\" interpretations of the relationship between substance and attributes, according to which substance would be undifferentiated and attributes would be nothing more than a contingent product of human intellect. Harris on the contrary maintains that Spinoza's theory of the \"scientia intuitiva\" clearly shows that Spinoza consistently conceives of substance's self-identity as intrinsically differentiated into a rational system of \"individual essences,\" and moreover that Spinoza's geometric method is simply the outward dress of an inferential procedure that is similar to dialectical method.\n\nHarris's interpretation of Hegel's philosophy—unlike that of most of Hegelian interpreters in the nineteenth and twentieth centuries—emphasizes the crucial role of \"Naturphilosophie\" in Hegel's metaphysics. In the wake of the many philosophical developments which affected the theoretical underpinnings of the natural sciences in the late nineteenth and early twentieth centuries, Harris outlines a \"reform\" of Hegel's \"Naturphilosophie\" that rejects as obsolete at least three of its main contentions: (1) that the natural sciences are nothing more than the product of the finite intellect's analytic activity; (2) that it is impossible cogently to prove the coming-to-be in natural philosophy of a unitary process of real biological evolution; and (3) that the \"bad infinity\" of the spaciotemporal form of inorganic nature is clear evidence of its self-contradictoriness. According to Harris, in fact, Einstein's theories of special and general relativity, as well as the contemporary cosmological theories of the \"expanding universe\", involve a plausible conception of the physical universe as a \"finite but unbounded Whole,\" so that it can be safely regarded as an objective, natural embodiment of the \"infinitum actu\", or \"true infinity,\" which Hegel had instead confined to the subjectivity of life and spirit.\n\nHarris advocates the possibility of knowledge of objective truth; his criticism of the naïve realism of positivistic epistemology never takes the form of subjectivism or skepticism. For him truth is the apex of a teleological process, whose more abstract and elementary forms are the theoretical perspectives worked out by the natural and human sciences, while its most concrete, fully blown aspect coincides with the self-reflective activity of metaphysical thought. The elements of his metaphysics show the acknowledged influences of Spinoza's rationalistic monism, Hegel's absolute idealism, Collingwood's logic, and Joachim's coherence theory of truth. He wrote:\n\nIn Harris's view, the ultimate unity of the subject and object of knowledge means that reality, which is the peculiar object of metaphysical thought, is identical with logical reason, which is the self-conscious act of systematic thought that thinks of reality. For Harris only dialectical logic can grasp the essence of such an identity. By sublating into the absolute idea the very negativity of finitude, appearance and error, only dialectical logic can disclose a logical universe that is not simply an aggregate of \"bloodless categories,\"but is rather a fully actual, self-sufficient and self-conscious Whole. As a consequence, Harris's metaphysics, like Hegel's, finally develops into a \"logic of construction\" and a panentheistic theology.\n\nIn 2017 James Schofield submitted his PhD thesis to the University of Canterbury titled 'Dialectical Holism: The Lost Metaphysics of E. E. Harris.' In this work he argued that Harris not only anticipated, but provided a metaphysical framework for unifying a range of current theories across the otherwise disparate special sciences of cosmology, systems biology, and consciousness studies. Perhaps the most important contention in this regard has been that Harris's work provides a neutral monist ontology for the philosophy of mind known as 'enactivism'. \n\n\nHarris is also the author of over ninety published articles and chapters of books, the earliest of which appeared in 1936.\n\n\n\"Ideas for a Philosophy of Nature\" by Friedrich Wilhelm Joseph von Schelling. (co-translator with Prof. Peter Heath)\n"}
{"id": "3086381", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3086381", "title": "Fascism and ideology", "text": "Fascism and ideology\n\nThe history of Fascist ideology is long and it involves many sources. Fascists took inspiration from as far back as the Spartans for their focus on racial purity and their emphasis on rule by an elite minority. It has also been connected to the ideals of Plato, though there are key differences. In Italy, Fascism styled itself as the ideological successor to Rome, particularly the Roman Empire. The Enlightenment-era concept of a \"high and noble\" Aryan culture as opposed to a \"parasitic\" Semitic culture was core to Nazi racial views. From the same era, Georg Wilhelm Friedrich Hegel's view on the absolute authority of the state also strongly influenced Fascist thinking. The French Revolution was a major influence insofar as the Nazis saw themselves as fighting back against many of the ideas which it brought to prominence, especially liberalism, liberal democracy and racial equality, whereas on the other hand Fascism drew heavily on the revolutionary ideal of nationalism. Common themes among fascist movements include; nationalism (including racial nationalism), hierarchy and elitism, militarism, quasi-religion, masculinity and voluntarism. Other aspects of fascism such as its \"myth of decadence\", anti‐egalitarianism and totalitarianism can be seen to originate from these ideas. These fundamental aspects however, can be attributed to a concept known as \"Palingenetic ultranationalism\", a theory proposed by Roger Griffin, that fascism is essentially populist ultranationalism sacralized through myth of national rebirth and regeneration. \n\nIts relationship with other ideologies of its day were complex, often at once adversarial and focused on co-opting their more popular aspects. Fascists supported limited private property rights and the profit motive of capitalism, but sought to eliminate the autonomy of large-scale capitalism by consolidating power with the state. They shared many goals with and often allied with the conservatives of their day and often recruited from disaffected conservative ranks, but presented themselves as holding a more modern ideology, with less focus on things like traditional religion. Fascism opposed the egalitarian (Völkisch equality) and international character of mainstream socialism, but sometimes sought to establish itself as an alternative \"national\" socialism. It strongly opposed liberalism, classical liberalism, communism and democratic socialism. \n\nEarly influences that shaped the ideology of fascism have been dated back to Ancient Greece. The political culture of ancient Greece and specifically the ancient Greek city state of Sparta under Lycurgus, with its emphasis on militarism and racial purity, were admired by the Nazis. Nazi \"Führer\" Adolf Hitler emphasized that Germany should adhere to Hellenic values and culture – particularly that of ancient Sparta. He rebuked potential criticism of Hellenic values being non-German by emphasizing the common Aryan race connection with ancient Greeks, saying in \"Mein Kampf\": \"One must not allow the differences of the individual races to tear up the greater racial community\". Hitler went on to say in \"Mein Kampf\": \"The struggle that rages today involves very great aims: a culture fights for its existence, which combines millenniums and embraces Hellenism and Germanity together\". The Spartans were emulated by the quasi-fascist regime of Ioannis Metaxas who called for Greeks to wholly commit themselves to the nation with self-control as the Spartans had done. Supporters of the 4th of August Regime in the 1930s to 1940s justified the dictatorship of Metaxas on the basis that the \"First Greek Civilization\" involved an Athenian dictatorship led by Pericles who had brought ancient Greece to greatness. The Greek philosopher Plato supported many similar political positions to fascism. In \"The Republic\" (c. 380 BC), Plato emphasizes the need for a philosopher king in an ideal state. Plato believed the ideal state would be ruled by an elite class of rulers known as “Guardians” and rejected the idea of social equality. Plato believed in an authoritarian state. Plato held Athenian democracy in contempt by saying: \"The laws of democracy remain a dead letter, its freedom is anarchy, its equality the equality of unequals\". Like fascism, Plato emphasized that individuals must adhere to laws and perform duties while declining to grant individuals rights to limit or reject state interference in their lives. Like fascism, Plato also claimed that an ideal state would have state-run education that was designed to promote able rulers and warriors. Like many fascist ideologues, Plato advocated for a state-sponsored eugenics program to be carried out in order to improve the Guardian class in his \"Republic\" through selective breeding. Italian Fascist \"Il Duce\" Benito Mussolini had a strong attachment to the works of Plato. However, there are significant differences between Plato's ideals and fascism. Unlike fascism, Plato never promoted expansionism and he was opposed to offensive war.\nItalian Fascists identified their ideology as being connected to the legacy of ancient Rome and particularly the Roman Empire: Julius Caesar and Augustus were idolized by Italian Fascists. Italian Fascism views the modern state of Italy as the heir of the Roman Empire and emphasized the need for renovation of Italian culture to \"return to Roman values\". Italian Fascists identify the Roman Empire as being an ideal organic and stable society in contrast to contemporary individualist liberal society that they identify as being chaotic in comparison. Julius Caesar has been identified as a role model by fascists because he led a revolution that overthrew an old order to establish a new order based on a dictatorship in which Julius Caesar wielded absolute power. Mussolini emphasized the need for dictatorship, activist leadership style and the leader cult like that of Julius Caesar that involved \"the will to fix a unifying and balanced centre and a common will to action\". Italian Fascists also idolized Augustus as the champion who built the Roman Empire. The fasces – a symbol of Roman authority – was the symbol of the Italian Fascists and was additionally adopted by many other national fascist movements formed in emulation of Italian fascism. While a number of Nazis rejected Roman civilization because they saw it as incompatible with Aryan Germanic culture and they also believed that Aryan Germanic culture was outside Roman culture, Adolf Hitler personally admired ancient Rome. Hitler focused on ancient Rome during its rise to dominance and at the height of its power as a model to follow and Hitler deeply admired the Roman Empire for its ability to forge a strong and unified civilization and in private conversations he blamed the fall of the Roman Empire on the Roman adoption of Christianity because he claimed that Christianity authorized the racial intermixing that weakened Rome and led to its destruction.\nThere were a number of influences on fascism from the Renaissance era in Europe. Niccolò Machiavelli is known to have influenced Italian Fascism, particularly his promotion of the absolute authority of the state. Machiavelli rejected all existing traditional and metaphysical assumptions of the time—especially those associated with the Middle Ages—and asserted as an Italian patriot that Italy needed a strong and all-powerful state led by a vigorous and ruthless leader who would conquer and unify Italy. Mussolini saw himself as a modern-day Machiavellian and wrote an introduction to his honorary doctoral thesis for the University of Bologna—\"Prelude to Machiavelli\". Mussolini professed that Machiavelli's \"pessimism about human nature was eternal in its acuity. Individuals simply could not be relied on voluntarily to 'obey the law, pay their taxes and serve in war'. No well-ordered society could want the people to be sovereign\", Most dictators of the 20th century mimicked Mussolini's admiration for Machiavelli and \"Stalin... saw himself as the embodiment of Machiavellian \"vertù\"\". Lenin was \"very much influenced by The Prince as well, keeping a copy of it on his nightstand\", as did Hitler.\n\nEnglish political theorist Thomas Hobbes in his work \"Leviathan\" (1651) created the ideology of absolutism that advocated an all-powerful absolute monarchy to maintain order within a state. Absolutism was an influence on fascism. Absolutism based its legitimacy on the precedents of Roman law including the centralized Roman state and the manifestation of Roman law in the Catholic Church. Though fascism supported the absolute power of the state, it opposes the idea of absolute power being in the hands of a monarch and opposes the feudalism that was associated with absolute monarchies.\nDuring the Enlightenment, a number of ideological influences arose that would shape the development of fascism. The development of the study of universal histories by Johann Gottfried Herder resulted in Herder's analysis of the development of nations, Herder developed the term \"Nationalismus\" (\"nationalism\") to describe this cultural phenomenon. At this time nationalism did not refer to the political ideology of nationalism that was later developed during the French Revolution. Herder also developed the theory that Europeans are the descendants of Indo-Aryan people based on language studies. Herder argued that the Germanic peoples held close racial connections with the ancient Indians and ancient Persians, who he claimed were advanced peoples possessing a great capacity for wisdom, nobility, restraint and science. Contemporaries of Herder utilized the concept of the Aryan race to draw a distinction between what they deemed \"high and noble\" Aryan culture versus that of \"parasitic\" Semitic culture and this anti-Semitic variant view of Europeans' Aryan roots formed the basis of Nazi racial views. Another major influence on fascism came from the political theories of Georg Wilhelm Friedrich Hegel. Hegel promoted the absolute authority of the state and said \"nothing short of the state is the actualization of freedom\" and that the \"state is the march of God on earth\".\n\nThe French Revolution and its political legacy had a major influence upon the development of fascism. Fascists view the French Revolution as a largely negative event that resulted in the entrenchment of liberal ideas such as liberal democracy, anticlericalism and rationalism. Opponents of the French Revolution initially were conservatives and reactionaries, but the Revolution was also later criticized by Marxists for its bourgeois character and racist nationalists who opposed its universalist principles. Racist nationalists in particular condemned the French Revolution for granting social equality to \"inferior races\" such as Jews. Mussolini condemned the French Revolution for developing liberalism, scientific socialism and liberal democracy, but also acknowledged that fascism extracted and utilized all the elements that had preserved those ideologies' vitality and that fascism had no desire to restore the conditions that precipitated the French Revolution. Though fascism opposed core parts of the Revolution, fascists supported other aspects of it, Mussolini declared his support for the Revolution's demolishment of remnants of the Middle Ages such as tolls and compulsory labour upon citizens and he noted that the French Revolution did have benefits in that it had been a cause of the whole French nation and not merely a political party. Most importantly, the French Revolution was responsible for the entrenchment of nationalism as a political ideology – both in its development in France as French nationalism and in the creation of nationalist movements particularly in Germany with the development of German nationalism by Johann Gottlieb Fichte as a political response to the development of French nationalism. The Nazis accused the French Revolution of being dominated by Jews and Freemasons and were deeply disturbed by the Revolution's intention to completely break France away from its past history in what the Nazis claimed was a repudiation of history that they asserted to be a trait of the Enlightenment. Though the Nazis were highly critical of the Revolution, Hitler in \"Mein Kampf\" said that the French Revolution is a model for how to achieve change that he claims was caused by the rhetorical strength of demagogues. Furthermore, the Nazis idealized the \"levée en masse\" (mass mobilization of soldiers) that was developed by French Revolutionary armies and the Nazis sought to use the system for their paramilitary movement.\n\nThe ideological roots of fascism have been traced to the 1880s and in particular the \"fin de siècle\" theme of that time. The theme was based on revolt against materialism, rationalism, positivism, bourgeois society and liberal democracy. The \"fin-de-siècle\" generation supported emotionalism, irrationalism, subjectivism and vitalism. The \"fin-de-siècle\" mindset saw civilization as being in a crisis that required a massive and total solution. The \"fin-de-siècle\" intellectual school of the 1890s – including Gabriele d'Annunzio and Enrico Corradini in Italy; Maurice Barrès, Edouard Drumont and Georges Sorel in France; and Paul de Lagarde, Julius Langbehn and Arthur Moeller van den Bruck in Germany – saw social and political collectivity as more important than individualism and rationalism. They considered the individual as only one part of the larger collectivity, which should not be viewed as an atomized numerical sum of individuals. They condemned the rationalistic individualism of liberal society and the dissolution of social links in bourgeois society. They saw modern society as one of mediocrity, materialism, instability, and corruption. They denounced big-city urban society as being merely based on instinct and animality and without heroism.\n\nThe \"fin-de-siècle\" outlook was influenced by various intellectual developments, including Darwinian biology; Wagnerian aesthetics; Arthur de Gobineau's racialism; Gustave Le Bon's psychology; and the philosophies of Friedrich Nietzsche, Fyodor Dostoyevsky and Henri Bergson. Social Darwinism, which gained widespread acceptance, made no distinction between physical and social life and viewed the human condition as being an unceasing struggle to achieve the survival of the fittest. Social Darwinism challenged positivism's claim of deliberate and rational choice as the determining behaviour of humans, with social Darwinism focusing on heredity, race and environment. Social Darwinism's emphasis on biogroup identity and the role of organic relations within societies fostered legitimacy and appeal for nationalism. New theories of social and political psychology also rejected the notion of human behaviour being governed by rational choice, and instead claimed that emotion was more influential in political issues than reason. Nietzsche's argument that \"God is dead\" coincided with his attack on the \"herd mentality\" of Christianity, democracy and modern collectivism; his concept of the \"übermensch\"; and his advocacy of the will to power as a primordial instinct were major influences upon many of the \"fin-de-siècle\" generation. Bergson's claim of the existence of an \"élan vital\" or vital instinct centred upon free choice and rejected the processes of materialism and determinism, thus challenged Marxism.\n\nWith the advent of the Darwinian theory of evolution came claims of evolution possibly leading to decadence. Proponents of decadence theories claimed that contemporary Western society's decadence was the result of modern life, including urbanization, sedentary lifestyle, the survival of the least fit and modern culture's emphasis on egalitarianism, individualistic anomie, and nonconformity. The main work that gave rise to decadence theories was the work \"Degeneration\" (1892) by Max Nordau that was popular in Europe, the ideas of decadence helped the cause of nationalists who presented nationalism as a cure for decadence.\n\nGaetano Mosca in his work \"The Ruling Class\" (1896) developed the theory that claims that in all societies, an \"organized minority\" will dominate and rule over the \"disorganized majority\". Mosca claims that there are only two classes in society, \"the governing\" (the organized minority) and \"the governed\" (the disorganized majority). He claims that the organized nature of the organized minority makes it irresistible to any individual of the disorganized majority. Mosca developed this theory in 1896 in which he argued that the problem of the supremacy of civilian power in society is solved in part by the presence and social structural design of militaries. He claims that the social structure of the military is ideal because it includes diverse social elements that balance each other out and more importantly is its inclusion of an officer class as a \"power elite\". Mosca presented the social structure and methods of governance by the military as a valid model of development for civil society. Mosca's theories are known to have significantly influenced Mussolini's notion of the political process and fascism.\n\nRelated to Mosca's theory of domination of society by an organized minority over a disorganized majority was Robert Michels' theory of the iron law of oligarchy that has become a mainstream political theory. The theory of the iron law of oligarchy, created in 1911 by Michels, was a major attack on the basis of contemporary democracy. Michels argues that oligarchy is inevitable as an \"iron law\" within any organization as part of the \"tactical and technical necessities\" of organization and on the topic of democracy, Michels stated: \"It is organization which gives birth to the dominion of the elected over the electors, of the mandataries over the mandators, of the delegates over the delegators. Who says organization, says oligarchy\". He claims: \"Historical evolution mocks all the prophylactic measures that have been adopted for the prevention of oligarchy\". He states that the official goal of contemporary democracy of eliminating elite rule was impossible, that democracy is a façade legitimizing the rule of a particular elite and that elite rule, that he refers to as oligarchy, is inevitable. Michels had formerly been a Marxist, but became drawn to the syndicalism of Georges Sorel, Édouard Berth, Arturo Labriola and Enrico Leone and had become strongly opposed the parliamentarian, legalistic and bureaucratic socialism of social democracy and in contrast supported an activist, voluntarist, anti-parliamentarian socialism. Nonetheless, both Michels and Olivetti \"conceived Italy's proletarian nationalism to be revolutionary, indeed, Marxist in essence\". The early revolutionary syndicalists, including Michels, realized that proletarian internationalism did not suggest an \"abandonment on part of the workers class of its national sentiment nor a neglect of national interest\". Under this interpretation, to be in compliance with Marx's theories for economic development, viewed as \"the prerequisite of socialist revolution\", the proletarian class required not only \"national independence\", but some sort of commitment \"to a program of nationalism\", a movement which Mussolini later referred to as proletarian nationalism Michels would later become a supporter of fascism upon Mussolini's rise to power in 1922, viewing fascism's goal to destroy liberal democracy in a sympathetic manner. According to fascist intellectuals, the proletarian nations of National Socialist Germany and Fascist Italy were to advance a socioeconomic and nationalist structure, designed to avoid the economic collapse experienced by Lenin's Russia that would \"integrate the class into the nation through the nationalization of the masses\". Such a social nationalistic framework was expected to \"provide the basis for social justice\" wherein \"the state is to belong to all classes and will unite the nation with socialism\".\nMaurice Barrès, who greatly influenced the policies of fascism, claimed that true democracy was authoritarian democracy while rejecting liberal democracy as a fraud. Barrès claimed that authoritarian democracy involved spiritual connection between a leader of a nation and the nation's people, and that true freedom did not arise from individual rights nor parliamentary restraints, but through \"heroic leadership\" and \"national power\". He emphasized the need for hero worship and charismatic leadership in national society. Barrès mixed anti-Semitic nationalism with socialism and identified as a \"national socialist\" and in 1889 he was a founding member of the League for the French Fatherland and in 1898 he became a member of the National Socialist Republican Committee and was elected to French parliament in 1906—though only after he abandoned ties with anti-Dreyfusard politicians. His national socialism emphasized cross-class interests and emphasized the role of intuition and emotion in politics and emphasized racial anti-Semitism.\n\nThe rise of support for anarchism in this period of time was important in influencing the politics of fascism. The anarchist Mikhail Bakunin's concept of propaganda of the deed that stressed the importance of direct action as the primary means of politics—including revolutionary violence—became popular amongst fascists who admired the concept and adopted it as a part of fascism.\nOne of the key persons who greatly influenced fascism, the French revolutionary syndicalist Georges Sorel was greatly influenced by anarchism and contributed to the fusion of anarchism and syndicalism together into anarcho syndicalism. Sorel promoted the legitimacy of political violence in his work \"Reflections on Violence\" (1908) and other works in which he advocated radical syndicalist action to achieve a revolution to overthrow capitalism and the bourgeoisie through a general strike. In \"Reflections on Violence\", Sorel emphasized need for a revolutionary political religion. Also in his work The Illusions of Progress, Sorel denounced democracy as reactionary, saying \"nothing is more aristocratic than democracy\". By 1909 after the failure of a syndicalist general strike in France, Sorel and his supporters left the radical left and went to the radical right, where they sought to merge militant Catholicism and French patriotism with their views – advocating anti-republican Christian French patriots as ideal revolutionaries. Initially Sorel had officially been a revisionist of Marxism, but by 1910 announced his abandonment of socialist literature and claimed in 1914, using an aphorism of Benedetto Croce that \"socialism is dead\" due to the \"decomposition of Marxism\". Sorel became a supporter of reactionary Maurrassian integral nationalism beginning in 1909 that influenced his works. French right-wing monarchist and nationalist Charles Maurras held interest in merging his nationalist ideals with Sorelian syndicalism as a means to confront liberal democracy. Maurras famously stated \"a socialism liberated from the democratic and cosmopolitan element fits nationalism well as a well made glove fits a beautiful hand\". Sorelianism is considered to be a precursor to fascism. This fusion of nationalism on the political right with Sorelian syndicalism on the left, around the outbreak of World War I. Sorelian syndicalism, unlike other ideologies on the left, held an elitist view that the morality of the working class needed to be raised. The Sorelian concept of the positive nature of social war and its insistence on moral revolution led some syndicalists to believe that war was the ultimate manifestation of social change and moral revolution.\n\nNonetheless, despite his support for a radical nationalism and his retreat from classical Marxism, Sorel was an early supporter of the Russian October Revolution, where \"his final ideological incarnation appeared to be a Bolshevist\". By 1920, Sorel called Lenin \"the greatest theoretician of socialism since Marx and a statesman whose genius recalls that of Peter the Great\". For years Sorel wrote numerous articles for Italian newspapers defending the Bolsheviks in their revolutionary efforts to socialize Russia. Around this time, Mussolini applauded Sorel by declaring: \"What I am, I owe to Sorel\". In return, Sorel lauded Mussolini in 1921 by calling the leader of Italy's Fascist party \"a man no less extraordinary than Lenin. He, too, is a political genius, of a greater reach than all the statesmen of the day, with the only exception of Lenin\".\n\nThe fusion of Maurrassian nationalism and Sorelian syndicalism influenced radical Italian nationalist Enrico Corradini. Corradini spoke of the need for a nationalist-syndicalist movement, led by elitist aristocrats and anti-democrats who shared a revolutionary syndicalist commitment to direct action and a willingness to fight. Corradini spoke of Italy as being a \"proletarian nation\" that needed to pursue imperialism in order to challenge the \"plutocratic\" French and British. Corradini's views were part of a wider set of perceptions within the right-wing Italian Nationalist Association (ANI), which claimed that Italy's economic backwardness was caused by corruption in its political class, liberalism, and division caused by \"ignoble socialism\". The ANI held ties and influence among conservatives, Catholics, and the business community. Italian national syndicalists held a common set of principles: the rejection of bourgeois values, democracy, liberalism, Marxism, internationalism and pacifism and the promotion of heroism, vitalism and violence.\nRadical nationalism in Italy—support for expansionism and cultural revolution to create a \"New Man\" and a \"New State\"—began to grow in 1912 during the Italian conquest of Libya and was supported by Italian Futurists and members of the ANI. Futurism that was both an artistic-cultural movement and initially a political movement in Italy led by Filippo Tommaso Marinetti who founded the \"Futurist Manifesto\" (1908), that championed the causes of modernism, action and political violence as necessary elements of politics while denouncing liberalism and parliamentary politics. Marinetti rejected conventional democracy for based on majority rule and egalitarianism while promoting a new form of democracy, that he described in his work \"The Futurist Conception of Democracy\" as the following: \"We are therefore able to give the directions to create and to dismantle to numbers, to quantity, to the mass, for with us number, quantity and mass will never be—as they are in Germany and Russia—the number, quantity and mass of mediocre men, incapable and indecisive\". The ANI claimed that liberal democracy was no longer compatible with the modern world and advocated a strong state and imperialism, claiming that humans are naturally predatory and that nations were in a constant struggle, in which only the strongest could survive.\n\nUntil 1914, Italian nationalists and revolutionary syndicalists with nationalist leanings remained apart. Such syndicalists opposed the Italo-Turkish War of 1911 as an affair of financial interests and not the nation, but World War I was seen by both Italian nationalists and syndicalists as a national affair.\n\nAt the outbreak of World War I in August 1914, the Italian political left became severely split over its position on the war. The Italian Socialist Party opposed the war on the grounds of internationalism, but a number of Italian revolutionary syndicalists supported intervention against Germany and Austria-Hungary on the grounds that their reactionary regimes needed to be defeated to ensure the success of socialism. Corradini presented the same need for Italy as a \"proletarian nation\" to defeat a reactionary Germany from a nationalist perspective. The beginning of fascism resulted from this split, with Angelo Oliviero Olivetti forming the Revolutionary Fascio for International Action in October 1914. At the same time, Benito Mussolini joined the interventionist cause. The Fascists supported nationalism and claimed that proletarian internationalism was a failure.\n\nAt this time, the Fascists did not have an integrated set of policies and the movement was very small. Its attempts to hold mass meetings were ineffective and it was regularly harassed by government authorities and socialists. Antagonism between interventionists—including Fascists—and anti-interventionist socialists resulted in violence. Attacks on interventionists were so violent that even democratic socialists who opposed the war, such as Anna Kuliscioff, said that the Italian Socialist Party had gone too far in its campaign to silence supporters of the war.\n\nItaly's use of daredevil elite shock troops known as the \"Arditi\", beginning in 1917, was an important influence on Fascism. The \"Arditi\" were soldiers who were specifically trained for a life of violence and wore unique blackshirt uniforms and fezzes. The \"Arditi\" formed a national organization in November 1918, the \"Associazione fra gli Arditi d'Italia\", which by mid-1919 had about twenty thousand young men within it. Mussolini appealed to the \"Arditi\" and the Fascists' \"Squadristi\" developed after the war were based upon the \"Arditi\".\nA major event that greatly influenced the development of fascism was the October Revolution of 1917 in which Bolshevik communists led by Vladimir Lenin seized power in Russia. In 1917, Mussolini as leader of the Fasci of Revolutionary Action praised the October Revolution, but Mussolini later became unimpressed with Lenin, regarding him as merely a new version of Tsar Nicholas. After World War I, fascists have commonly campaigned on anti-Marxist agendas. Nonetheless, Mussolini during his Fascist Revolutionary Party (PFR) leadership determined that War Communism was leading to economic collapse instead of a productive proletarian state. Reversing his position, Mussolini criticized Lenin's actions for failing to uphold Marxist principles, writing that his colleague was \"'the very negation of socialism' because he had not created a dictatorship of the proletariat or of the socialist party, but only of a few intellectuals who had found the secret of winning power\".\n\nGenerally, both Bolshevism and fascism hold ideological similarities: both advocate a revolutionary ideology, both believe in the necessity of a vanguard elite, both have disdain for bourgeois values and both had totalitarian ambitions. In practice, fascism and Bolshevism have commonly emphasized revolutionary action, proletarian nation theories, one-party states and party-armies. The former Prime Minister of Italy Francesco Saverio Nitti observed the same Bolshevik-Fascist parallels in 1927, writing that under Mussolini's regime there is a \"greater tolerance\" displayed \"toward Communists affiliated with Moscow than to Liberals, democrats, and Socialists\". Mussolini had become well verse in Marxism after being tutored by Angelica Balabanoff and associating with Leon Trotsky and Lenin during his stay in Switzerland from 1902 to 1904.\n\nWith the antagonism between anti-interventionist Marxists and pro-interventionist Fascists complete by the end of the war, the two sides became irreconcilable. The Fascists presented themselves as anti-Marxists and as opposed to the Marxists. Nonetheless, Mussolini briefly referred to himself as the \"Lenin of Italy\" during the 1919 election, where his Fascist Revolutionary Party attempted to \"out-socialist the socialists\". Mussolini consolidated control over the Fascist movement in 1919 with the founding of the \"Fasci italiani di combattimento\", whose opposition to non-nationalistic socialism he declared:\n\nIn 1919, Alceste De Ambris and futurist movement leader Filippo Tommaso Marinetti created \"The Manifesto of the Italian Fasci of Combat\" (also known as the \"Fascist Manifesto\"). The Manifesto was presented on 6 June 1919 in the Fascist newspaper \"Il Popolo d'Italia\". The Manifesto supported the creation of universal suffrage for both men and women (the latter being realized only partly in late 1925, with all opposition parties banned or disbanded); proportional representation on a regional basis; government representation through a corporatist system of \"National Councils\" of experts, selected from professionals and tradespeople, elected to represent and hold legislative power over their respective areas, including labour, industry, transportation, public health, communications, etc.; and the abolition of the Italian Senate. The Manifesto supported the creation of an eight-hour work day for all workers, a minimum wage, worker representation in industrial management, equal confidence in labour unions as in industrial executives and public servants, reorganization of the transportation sector, revision of the draft law on invalidity insurance, reduction of the retirement age from 65 to 55, a strong progressive tax on capital, confiscation of the property of religious institutions and abolishment of bishoprics and revision of military contracts to allow the government to seize 85% of their profits. It also called for the creation of a short-service national militia to serve defensive duties, nationalization of the armaments industry and a foreign policy designed to be peaceful but also competitive.\nThe next events that influenced the Fascists were the raid of Fiume by Italian nationalist Gabriele D'Annunzio and the founding of the Charter of Carnaro in 1920. D'Annunzio and De Ambris designed the Charter, which advocated national-syndicalist corporatist productionism alongside D'Annunzio's political views. Many Fascists saw the Charter of Carnaro as an ideal constitution for a Fascist Italy. This behaviour of aggression towards Yugoslavia and South Slavs was pursued by Italian Fascists with their persecution of South Slavs – especially Slovenes and Croats.\n\nIn 1920, militant strike activity by industrial workers reached its peak in Italy, where 1919 and 1920 were known as the \"Red Years\". Mussolini, a former union organizer, was still at this moment displaying himself \"as a left-wing extremist\" who \"applauded the strikes\". He and his squads of blackshirts were involved in a number of \"creative strikes\" in factories such as the metallurgical plant \"Franchi e Gregorini\" at Dalmine, but his support was contingent upon the \"workers who had seized the factories\" possessing \"the 'collective capacity' to maintain production\". The Fascists offered no special sanctity for private property, only that production along with worker's jobs would be secure. Moreover, during this volatile period Mussolini's squads were not only organizing and participating in worker strikes but were engaged in armed attacks against the Church \"where several priests were assassinated and churches burned by the Fascists\". By October 1920, Mussolini sensed a \"profound change in the mood of the proletarian\", professing that the \"working masses\" were no longer interested in the expropriation of industrial capitalists, but favored solving the problem of production. Moreover, Mussolini maintained that orthodox \"Socialists had betrayed the proletariat\"and declared that the \"official Italian Socialist Party has been reactionary and absolutely conservative\". Seeking new opportunities for \"Fascist syndicalism\", Mussolini turned away from orthodox socialist organizations, assembled a violence-prone militia and employed the pretense of saving Italy from bolshevism, although that possibility \"had already ceased to be a threat\". This about-face with orthodox socialists lead Mussolini and the Fascists to ally with various industrial businesses and to attack Socialist Party activists and labor organizers in the name of preserving order and internal peace in Italy.\n\nNonetheless, Mussolini, who often played both sides to increase his political influence, had issued an open threat in 1921 that if the Italian government attempted to suppress the Fascists, he \"might move to the other extreme and join the communists in revolutionary action\". In his book 1927 book, \"Bolshevism, Fascism and Democracy\", Francesco Saverio Nitti observed that Mussolini was simply cloaking his true Bolshevik leanings since he had \"always retained a great admiration for Bolshevism, though he presented himself to the public as an antidote to Bolshevism\".\n\nFascists identified their primary opponents as the socialists on the left who had opposed intervention in World War I. The Fascists and the rest of the Italian political right held common ground: both held Marxism in contempt, discounted class consciousness and believed in the rule of elites. The Fascists assisted the anti-socialist campaign by allying with the other parties and the conservative right in a mutual effort to destroy the Italian Socialist Party and labour organizations committed to class identity above national identity. In 1921, Mussolini joined a political alliance with Giovanni Giolitti, Italy's Prime Minister and leader of the Italian Liberal Party who was considered a left-wing liberal, due to his progressive social reforms and his nationalization of the private telephone and railroad operators. This alliance with the liberals and others helped Mussolini acquire authority, respectability and \"freedom from arrest\". In July 1921, Mussolini suggested a different coalition that would include fascists, socialists and \"populari\". Called the \"Pact of Pacification\", Mussolini signed the agreement with the Italian Socialist Party on 2 or 3 August 1921, but it was both unpopular and short-lived. One reason for Mussolini’s signing of a peace pact with the Italian Socialist Party was his aspiration to rename his party the “Fascist Labor Party” and avoid the possibility of taking a “categorically antileftist position”. However, at the Third Fascist Congress in Rome on 7–10 November 1921 his traditional faction of revolutionary syndicalists and national socialists was outvoted by the new majority of \"squadristi\" leaders, who pressured Mussolini to rename the party the National Fascist Party and to reorganize as an “association of the \"fasci\" and their storm squads”.\n\nBetween 1922–1925, Fascism sought to accommodate the Italian Liberal Party, conservatives and nationalists under Italy's coalition government, where major alterations to its political agenda were made—alterations such as abandoning its previous populism, republicanism and anticlericalism—and adopting policies of economic liberalism under Alberto De Stefani, a Center Party member who was Italy's Minister of Finance until dismissed by Mussolini after the imposition of a single-party dictatorship in 1925. The Fascist regime also accepted the Roman Catholic Church and the monarchy as institutions in Italy. To appeal to Italian conservatives, Fascism adopted policies such as promoting family values, including promotion policies designed to reduce the number of women in the workforce limiting the woman's role to that of a mother. In an effort to expand Italy's population to facilitate Mussolini's future plans to control the Mediterranean region, the Fascists banned literature on birth control and increased penalties for abortion in 1926, declaring both crimes against the state. Though Fascism adopted a number of positions designed to appeal to reactionaries, the Fascists sought to maintain Fascism's revolutionary character, with Angelo Oliviero Olivetti saying that \"Fascism would like to be conservative, but it will [be] by being revolutionary\". The Fascists supported revolutionary action and committed to secure law and order to appeal to both conservatives and syndicalists.\n\nPrior to Fascism's accommodation of the political right, Fascism was a small, urban, northern Italian movement that had about a thousand members. After Fascism's accommodation of the political right, the Fascist movement's membership soared to approximately 250,000 by 1921.\n\nBeginning in 1922, Fascist paramilitaries escalated their strategy from one of attacking socialist offices and homes of socialist leadership figures to one of violent occupation of cities. The Fascists met little serious resistance from authorities and proceeded to take over several cities, including Bologna, Bolzano, Cremona, Ferrara, Fiume and Trent. The Fascists attacked the headquarters of socialist and Catholic unions in Cremona and imposed forced Italianization upon the German-speaking population of Trent and Bolzano. After seizing these cities, the Fascists made plans to take Rome.\nOn 24 October 1922, the Fascist Party held its annual congress in Naples, where Mussolini ordered Blackshirts to take control of public buildings and trains and to converge on three points around Rome. The march would be led by four prominent Fascist leaders representing its different factions: Italo Balbo, a Blackshirt leader; General Emilio De Bono; Michele Bianchi, an ex syndicalist; and Cesare Maria De Vecchi, a monarchist Fascist. Mussolini himself remained in Milan to await the results of the actions. The Fascists managed to seize control of several post offices and trains in northern Italy while the Italian government, led by a left-wing coalition, was internally divided and unable to respond to the Fascist advances. The Italian government had been in a steady state of turmoil, with many governments being created and then being defeated. The Italian government initially took action to prevent the Fascists from entering Rome, but King Victor Emmanuel III of Italy perceived the risk of bloodshed in Rome in response to attempting to disperse the Fascists to be too high. Some political organizations, such as the conservative Italian Nationalist Association, “assured King Victor Emmanuel that their own Sempre Pronti militia was ready to fight the Blackshirts” if they entered Rome, but their offer was never accepted. Victor Emmanuel III decided to appoint Mussolini as Prime Minister of Italy and Mussolini arrived in Rome on 30 October to accept the appointment. Fascist propaganda aggrandized this event, known as \"March on Rome\", as a \"seizure\" of power due to Fascists' heroic exploits.\n\nUpon being appointed Prime Minister of Italy, Mussolini had to form a coalition government because the Fascists did not have control over the Italian parliament. The coalition government included a cabinet led by Mussolini and thirteen other ministers, only three of whom were Fascists, while others included representatives from the army and the navy, two Catholic Popolari members, two democratic liberals, one conservative liberal, one social democrat, one Nationalist member and the pro-Fascist philosopher Giovanni Gentile, who held substantial “sympathy for the neo-Hegelian Marxist intellectual tradition”. Mussolini's coalition government initially pursued economically liberal policies under the direction of liberal finance minister Alberto De Stefani from the Center Party, including balancing the budget through deep cuts to the civil service. Initially little drastic change in government policy had occurred and repressive police actions against communist and d'Annunzian rebels were limited. At the same time, Mussolini consolidated his control over the National Fascist Party by creating a governing executive for the party, the Grand Council of Fascism, whose agenda he controlled. In addition, the \"squadristi\" blackshirt militia was transformed into the state-run MVSN, led by regular army officers. Militant \"squadristi\" were initially highly dissatisfied with Mussolini's government and demanded a \"Fascist revolution\".\n\nIn this period, to appease the King of Italy, Mussolini formed a close political alliance between the Italian Fascists and Italy's conservative faction in Parliament, which was led by Luigi Federzoni, a conservative monarchist and nationalist who was a member of the Italian Nationalist Association (ANI). The ANI joined the National Fascist Party in 1923. Because of the merger of the Nationalists with the Fascists, tensions existed between the conservative nationalist and revolutionary syndicalist factions of the movement. The conservative and syndicalist factions of the Fascist movement sought to reconcile their differences, secure unity and promote fascism by taking on the views of each other. Conservative nationalist Fascists promoted fascism as a revolutionary movement to appease the revolutionary syndicalists, while to appease conservative nationalist fascists revolutionary syndicalist Fascists declared they wanted to secure social stability and insure economic productivity. This sentiment included most syndicalist Fascists, particularly Edmondo Rossoni, who as secretary-general of the General Confederation of Fascist Syndical Corporations sought “labor’s autonomy and class consciousness”. After he returned to Italy to fight in World War I, Rossoni promoted a labor movement that favored “fusing nationalism with class struggle”.\n\nThe Fascists began their attempt to entrench Fascism in Italy with the Acerbo Law, which guaranteed a plurality of the seats in parliament to any party or coalition list in an election that received 25% or more of the vote. The Acerbo Law was passed in spite of numerous abstentions from the vote. In the 1924 election, the Fascists, along with moderates and conservatives, formed a coalition candidate list and through considerable Fascist violence and intimidation the list won with 66% of the vote, allowing it to receive 403 seats, most of which went to the Fascists. In the aftermath of the election, a crisis and political scandal erupted after Socialist Party deputy Giacomo Matteoti was kidnapped and murdered by a Fascist. The liberals and the leftist minority in parliament walked out in protest in what became known as the Aventine Secession. On 3 January 1925, Mussolini addressed the Fascist-dominated Italian parliament and declared that he was personally responsible for what happened, but he insisted that he had done nothing wrong and proclaimed himself dictator of Italy, assuming full responsibility over the government and announcing the dismissal of parliament. From 1925 to 1929, Fascism steadily became entrenched in power: opposition deputies were denied access to parliament, censorship was introduced and a December 1925 decree made Mussolini solely responsible to the King. Efforts to fascistize Italian society accelerated beginning in 1926, with Fascists taking positions in local administration and 30% of all prefects being administered by appointed Fascists by 1929. In 1929, the Fascist regime gained the political support and blessing of the Roman Catholic Church after the regime signed a concordat with the Church, known as the Lateran Treaty, which gave the papacy state sovereignty and financial compensation for the seizure of Church lands by the liberal state in the 19th century. Though Fascist propaganda had begun to speak of the new regime as an all-encompassing \"totalitarian\" state beginning in 1925, the Fascist Party and regime never gained total control over Italy's institutions. King Victor Emmanuel III remained head of state, the armed forces and the judicial system retained considerable autonomy from the Fascist state, Fascist militias were under military control and initially the economy had relative autonomy as well.\n\nThe Fascist regime began to create a corporatist economic system in 1925 with creation of the Palazzo Vidioni Pact, in which the Italian employers' association Confindustria and Fascist trade unions agreed to recognize each other as the sole representatives of Italy's employers and employees, excluding non-Fascist trade unions. The Fascist regime first created a Ministry of Corporations that organized the Italian economy into 22 sectoral corporations, nationalized all independent trade unions, banned workers' strikes and lock-outs and in 1927 created the Charter of Labour, which established workers' rights and duties and created labour tribunals to arbitrate employer-employee disputes. In practice, the sectoral corporations exercised little independence and were largely controlled by the regime and employee organizations were rarely led by employees themselves, but instead by appointed Fascist party members.\n\nIn the 1920s, Fascist Italy pursued an aggressive foreign policy that included an attack on the Greek island of Corfu, aims to expand Italian territory in the Balkans, plans to wage war against Turkey and Yugoslavia, attempts to bring Yugoslavia into civil war by supporting Croat and Macedonian separatists to legitimize Italian intervention and making Albania a \"de facto\" protectorate of Italy, which was achieved through diplomatic means by 1927. In response to revolt in the Italian colony of Libya, Fascist Italy abandoned previous liberal-era colonial policy of cooperation with local leaders. Instead, claiming that Italians were a superior race to African races and thereby had the right to colonize the \"inferior\" Africans, it sought to settle 10 to 15 million Italians in Libya. This resulted in an aggressive military campaign against natives in Libya, including mass killings, the use of concentration camps and the forced starvation of thousands of people. Italian authorities committed ethnic cleansing by forcibly expelling 100,000 Bedouin Cyrenaicans, half the population of Cyrenaica in Libya, from their settlements that was slated to be given to Italian settlers.\n\nThe March on Rome brought Fascism international attention. One early admirer of the Italian Fascists was Adolf Hitler, who less than a month after the March had begun to model himself and the Nazi Party upon Mussolini and the Fascists. The Nazis, led by Hitler and the German war hero Erich Ludendorff, attempted a \"March on Berlin\" modeled upon the March on Rome, which resulted in the failed Beer Hall Putsch in Munich in November 1923, where the Nazis briefly captured Bavarian Minister President Gustav Ritter von Kahr and announced the creation of a new German government to be led by a triumvirate of von Kahr, Hitler and Ludendorff. The Beer Hall Putsch was crushed by Bavarian police and Hitler and other leading Nazis were arrested and detained until 1925. Another early admirer of Italian Fascism was Gyula Gömbös, leader of the Hungarian National Defence Association (known by its acronym MOVE) and a self-defined \"national socialist\" who in 1919 spoke of the need for major changes in property and in 1923 stated the need of a \"march on Budapest\". Yugoslavia briefly had a significant fascist movement, the ORJUNA that supported Yugoslavism, supported the creation of a corporatist economy, opposed democracy and took part in violent attacks on communists, though it was opposed to the Italian government due to Yugoslav border disputes with Italy. ORJUNA was dissolved in 1929 when the King of Yugoslavia banned political parties and created a royal dictatorship, though ORJUNA supported the King's decision. Amid a political crisis in Spain involving increased strike activity and rising support for anarchism, Spanish army commander Miguel Primo de Rivera engaged in a successful coup against the Spanish government in 1923 and installed himself as a dictator as head of a conservative military junta that dismantled the established party system of government. Upon achieving power, Primo de Rivera sought to resolve the economic crisis by presenting himself as a compromise arbitrator figure between workers and bosses and his regime created a corporatist economic system based on the Italian Fascist model. In Lithuania in 1926, Antanas Smetona rose to power and founded a fascist regime under his Lithuanian Nationalist Union.\n\nThe events of the Great Depression resulted in an international surge of fascism and the creation of several fascist regimes and regimes that adopted fascist policies. The most important new fascist regime was Nazi Germany, under the leadership of Adolf Hitler. With the rise of Hitler and the Nazis to power in 1933, liberal democracy was dissolved in Germany and the Nazis mobilized the country for war, with expansionist territorial aims against several countries. In the 1930s, the Nazis implemented racial laws that deliberately discriminated against, disenfranchised and persecuted Jews and other racial minority groups. Hungarian fascist Gyula Gömbös rose to power as Prime Minister of Hungary in 1932 and visited Fascist Italy and Nazi Germany in order to consolidate good relations with the two regimes. He attempted to entrench his Party of National Unity throughout the country; created an eight-hour work day and a forty-eight-hour work week in industry and sought to entrench a corporatist economy; and pursued irredentist claims on Hungary's neighbors. The fascist Iron Guard movement in Romania soared in political support after 1933, gaining representation in the Romanian government and an Iron Guard member assassinated Romanian prime minister Ion Duca. During the 6 February 1934 crisis, France faced the greatest domestic political turmoil since the Dreyfus Affair when the fascist Francist Movement and multiple far right movements rioted \"en masse\" in Paris against the French government resulting in major political violence. A variety of para-fascist governments that borrowed elements from fascism were also formed during the Great Depression, including in Greece, Lithuania, Poland and Yugoslavia.\nFascism also expanded its influence outside Europe, especially in East Asia, the Middle East and South America. In China, Wang Jingwei's \"Kai-tsu p'ai\" (Reorganization) faction of the Kuomintang (Nationalist Party of China) supported Nazism in the late 1930s. In Japan, a Nazi movement called the Tōhōkai was formed by Seigō Nakano. The Al-Muthanna Club of Iraq was a pan-Arab movement that supported Nazism and exercised its influence in the Iraqi government through cabinet minister Saib Shawkat who formed a paramilitary youth movement. In South America, several mostly short-lived fascist governments and prominent fascist movements were formed during this period. Argentine President General José Félix Uriburu proposed that Argentina be reorganized along corporatist and fascist lines. Peruvian president Luis Miguel Sánchez Cerro founded the Revolutionary Union in 1931 as the state party for his dictatorship. Upon the Revolutionary Union being taken over by Raúl Ferrero Rebagliati, who sought to mobilise mass support for the group's nationalism in a manner akin to fascism and even started a paramilitary Blackshirts arm as a copy of the Italian group, although the Union lost heavily in the 1936 elections and faded into obscurity. In Paraguay in 1940, Paraguayan President General Higinio Morínigo began his rule as a dictator with the support of pro-fascist military officers, appealed to the masses, exiled opposition leaders and only abandoned his pro-fascist policies after the end of World War II. The Brazilian Integralists led by Plínio Salgado, claimed as many as 200,000 members although following coup attempts it faced a crackdown from the Estado Novo of Getúlio Vargas in 1937. In the 1930s, the National Socialist Movement of Chile gained seats in Chile's parliament and attempted a coup d'état that resulted in the Seguro Obrero massacre of 1938.\n\nDuring the Great Depression, Mussolini promoted active state intervention in the economy and denounced the contemporary \"supercapitalism\" that he claimed began in 1914 as a failure due to its alleged decadence, support for unlimited consumerism and intention to create the \"standardization of humankind\". However, Mussolini claimed that the industrial developments of earlier \"heroic capitalism\" were valuable and continued to support private property as long as it was productive. With the onset of the Great Depression, Fascist Italy began large-scale state intervention into the economy, establishing the Institute for Industrial Reconstruction (\"Istituto per la Ricostruzione Industriale\", IRI), a giant state-owned firm and holding company that provided state funding to failing private enterprises. The IRI was made a permanent institution in Fascist Italy in 1937, pursued Fascist policies to create national autarky and had the power to take over private firms to maximize war production. Not long after the creation of the Institute for Industrial Reconstruction, Mussolini boasted in a 1934 speech to his Chamber of Deputies: \"Three-fourths of the Italian economy, industrial and agricultural, is in the hands of the state\". As Italy continued to nationalize its economy, the IRI \"became the owner not only of the three most important Italian banks, which were clearly too big to fail, but also of the lion's share of the Italian industries\". By 1939, Fascist Italy attained the highest rate of state–ownership of an economy in the world other than the Soviet Union; the Italian state \"controlled over four-fifths of Italy's shipping and shipbuilding, three-quarters of its pig iron production and almost half that of steel\".\n\nIn the late 1930s, Italy enacted manufacturing cartels, tariff barriers, currency restrictions and massive regulation of the economy to attempt to balance payments. However, Italy's policy of autarky failed to achieve effective economic autonomy. Nazi Germany similarly pursued an economic agenda with the aims of autarky and rearmament and imposed protectionist policies, including forcing the German steel industry to use lower-quality German iron ore rather than superior-quality imported iron. In Fascist Italy and Nazi Germany, both pursued territorial expansionist and interventionist foreign policy agendas from the 1930s through the 1940s culminating in World War II. Mussolini called for irredentist Italian claims to be reclaimed, establishing Italian domination of the Mediterranean Sea and securing Italian access to the Atlantic Ocean and the creation of Italian \"spazio vitale\" (\"vital space\") in the Mediterranean and Red Sea regions. Hitler called for irredentist German claims to be reclaimed along with the creation of German \"Lebensraum\" (\"living space\") in Eastern Europe, including territories held by the Soviet Union, that would be colonized by Germans.\n\nFrom 1935 to 1939, Germany and Italy escalated their demands for territorial claims and greater influence in world affairs. Italy invaded Ethiopia in 1935, resulting in condemnation by the League of Nations and widespread diplomatic isolation. In 1936, Germany remilitarized the industrial Rhineland, a region that had been ordered demilitarized by the Treaty of Versailles. In 1938, Germany annexed Austria and Italy assisted Germany in resolving the diplomatic crisis between Germany versus Britain and France over claims on Czechoslovakia by arranging the Munich Agreement that gave Germany the Sudetenland and was perceived at the time to have averted a European war. These hopes faded when Hitler violated the Munich Agreement by ordering the invasion and partition of Czechoslovakia between Germany and a client state of Slovakia in 1939. At the same time from 1938 to 1939, Italy was demanding territorial and colonial concessions from France and Britain, demanding the immediate concession of Corsica and Tunisia from France, a secondary set of objectives including the Italian acquisition of Malta and Cyprus from Britain and a tertiary set of objectives including the long-term goals of eventual Italian control over Gibraltar and the Suez Canal – considered by the Fascist government to be the \"keys to the Mediterranean\". In 1939, Germany prepared for war with Poland, but attempted to gain territorial concessions from Poland through diplomatic means. Germany demanded that Poland accept the annexation of the Free City of Danzig to Germany and authorize the construction of automobile highways from Germany through the Polish Corridor into Danzig and East Prussia in order to unite the infrastructure of Germany, Danzig and East Prussia. While aside from Germany's use of the highways, these territories would remain under Polish jurisdiction and a promised twenty-five year non-aggression pact. The Polish government did not trust Hitler's promises and refused to accept Germany's demands. With the strategic alliance between Germany and the Soviet Union against Poland, Germany and the Soviet Union planned to invade Poland in 1939 unless Poland conceded to German demands by 1 September 1939, but Poland refused, Germany invaded and was followed by a Soviet invasion of Poland.\n\nThe invasion of Poland by Germany was deemed unacceptable by Britain, France and their allies, resulting in their mutual declaration of war against Germany that was deemed the aggressor in the war in Poland, resulting in the outbreak of World War II. Germany and the Soviet Union partitioned Poland between them in late 1939 followed by the successful German offensive in Scandinavia and continental Western Europe in 1940. On 10 June 1940, Mussolini led Italy into World War II on the side of the Axis. Mussolini was aware that Italy did not have the military capacity to carry out a long war with France or the United Kingdom and waited until France was on the verge of imminent collapse and surrender from German invasion before declaring war on France and the United Kingdom on 10 June 1940 on the assumption that the war would be short-lived following France's collapse. Mussolini believed that following a brief entry of Italy into war with France, followed by the imminent French surrender, Italy could gain some territorial concessions from France and then concentrate its forces on a major offensive in Egypt where British and Commonwealth forces were outnumbered by Italian forces. Plans by Germany to invade the United Kingdom in 1940 failed after Germany lost the aerial warfare campaign in the Battle of Britain. The war became prolonged contrary to Mussolini's plans resulting in Italy losing battles on multiple fronts and requiring German assistance. In 1941, the Axis campaign spread to the Soviet Union after Hitler launched Operation Barbarossa. Axis forces at the height of their power controlled almost all of continental Europe. By 1942, Nazi Germany annexed Poland to Germany and controlled vast sections of continental Europe, including the occupation of large portions of the Soviet Union. By 1942, Fascist Italy occupied and annexed Dalmatia from Yugoslavia, Corsica and Nice from France and controlled other territories. During World War II, the Axis Powers in Europe led by Nazi Germany participated in the extermination of millions of Jews and others in the genocide known as the Holocaust. In Asia, Japan committed large massacres of Chinese civilians.\n\nAfter 1942, Axis forces began to falter. By 1943, after Italy faced multiple military failures, complete reliance and subordination of Italy to Germany and Allied invasion of Italy and corresponding international humiliation, Mussolini was removed as head of government and arrested by the order of King Victor Emmanuel III who proceeded to dismantle the Fascist state and declared Italy's switching of allegiance to the Allied side. Mussolini was rescued from arrest by German forces and led the German client state, the Italian Social Republic from 1943 to 1945. Nazi Germany faced multiple losses and steady Soviet and Western Allied offensives from 1943 to 1945.\nOn 28 April 1945, Mussolini was captured and executed by Italian communist partisans who had his body and those of others executed displayed on a meat hook in front of crowds who celebrated his execution. On 30 April 1945, with the Battle of Berlin between collapsing German forces and Soviet armed forces, Hitler committed suicide. Shortly afterwards, Germany surrendered and the Nazi regime was dismantled and key Nazi members arrested to stand trial for crimes against humanity involving the Holocaust.\n\nYugoslavia, Greece and Ethiopia requested the extradition of 1,200 Italian war criminals, but these people never saw anything like the Nuremberg trials since the British government, with the beginning of Cold War, saw in Pietro Badoglio a guarantee of an anti-communist post-war Italy. The repression of memory led to historical revisionism in Italy and in 2003 the Italian media published Silvio Berlusconi's statement that Benito Mussolini only \"used to send people on vacation\", denying the existence of Italian concentration camps such as Rab concentration camp.\n\nIn the aftermath of World War II, the victory of the Allies over the Axis powers led to the collapse of multiple fascist regimes in Europe. The Nuremberg Trials convicted multiple Nazi leaders of crimes against humanity involving the Holocaust. However, there remained multiple ideologies and governments that were ideologically related to fascism.\n\nFrancisco Franco's quasi-fascist Falangist one-party state in Spain was officially neutral during World War II and survived the collapse of the Axis Powers. Franco's rise to power had been directly assisted by the militaries of Fascist Italy and Nazi Germany during the Spanish Civil War and had sent volunteers to fight on the side of Nazi Germany against the Soviet Union during World War II. After World War II and a period of international isolation, Franco's regime normalized relations with Western powers during the early years of the Cold War until Franco's death in 1975 and the transformation of Spain into a liberal democracy.\nPeronism, which is associated with the regime of Juan Peron in Argentina from 1946 to 1955 and 1973 to 1974, was strongly influenced by fascism. Prior to rising to power, from 1939 to 1941 Peron had developed a deep admiration of Italian Fascism and modelled his economic policies on Italian Fascist economic policies.\n\nThe South African government of Afrikaner nationalist and white supremacist Daniel François Malan was closely associated with pro-fascist and pro-Nazi politics. In 1937, Malan's Purified National Party, the South African Fascists and the Blackshirts agreed to form a coalition for the South African election. Malan had fiercely opposed South Africa's participation on the Allied side in World War II. Malan's government founded apartheid, the system of racial segregation of whites and non-whites in South Africa. The most extreme Afrikaner fascist movement is the neo-Nazi white supremacist Afrikaner Resistance Movement (AWB) that at one point was recorded in 1991 to have 50,000 supporters with rising support. The AWB grew in support in response to efforts to dismantle apartheid in the 1980s and early 1990s and its paramilitary wing the Storm Falcons threatened violence against people it considered \"trouble makers\".\nAnother ideology strongly influenced by fascism is Ba'athism. Ba'athism is a revolutionary Arab nationalist ideology that seeks the unification of all claimed Arab lands into a single Arab state. Zaki al-Arsuzi, one of the principal founders of Ba'athism, was strongly influenced by and supportive of Fascism and Nazism. Several close associates of Ba'athism's key ideologist Michel Aflaq have admitted that Aflaq had been directly inspired by certain fascist and Nazi theorists. Ba'athist regimes in power in Iraq and Syria have held strong similarities to fascism, they are radical authoritarian nationalist one-party states. Due to Ba'athism's anti-Western stances it preferred the Soviet Union in the Cold War and admired and adopted certain Soviet organizational structures for their governments, but the Ba'athist regimes have persecuted communists. Like fascist regimes, Ba'athism became heavily militarized in power. Ba'athist movements governed Iraq in 1963 and again from 1968 to 2003 and in Syria from 1963 to the present. Ba'athist heads of state such as Syrian President Hafez al-Assad and Iraqi President Saddam Hussein created personality cults around themselves portraying themselves as the nationalist saviours of the Arab world.\n\nBa'athist Iraq under Saddam Hussein pursued ethnic cleansing or the liquidation of minorities, pursued expansionist wars against Iran and Kuwait and gradually replaced pan-Arabism with an Iraqi nationalism that emphasized Iraq's connection to the glories of ancient Mesopotamian empires, including Babylonia. Historian on fascism Stanley Payne has said about Saddam Hussein's regime: \"There will probably never again be a reproduction of the Third Reich, but Saddam Hussein has come closer than any other dictator since 1945\".\n\nIn the 1990s, Payne claimed that a prominent Hindu nationalist movement \"Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh\" (RSS) holds strong resemblances to fascism—including its use of paramilitaries and its irredentist claims—calling for the creation of a Greater India. Cyprian Blamires in \"World Fascism: A Historical Encyclopedia\" describes the ideology of the RSS as \"fascism with Sanskrit characters\" – a unique Indian variant of fascism. Blamires notes that there is evidence that the RSS held direct contact with Italy's Fascist regime and admired European fascism. a view with some support from A. James Gregor. However, these views have met wide criticism, especially from academics specializing Indian politics. Paul Brass, expert on Hindu-Muslim violence, notes that there are many problems with accepting this point of view and identified four reasons that it is difficult to define the Sangh as fascist. Firstly, most scholars of the field do not subscribe to the view the RSS is fascist, notably among them Christophe Jaffrelot, A. James Gregor and Chetan Bhatt. The other reasons include an absence of charismatic leadership, a desire on the part of the RSS to differentiate itself from European fascism, major cultural differences between the RSS and European fascists and factionalism within the Sangh Parivar. Stanley Payne claims that it also has substantial differences with fascism such as its emphasis on traditional religion as the basis of identity.\n\nMussolini saw fascism as opposing socialism and left-wing ideologies: \"If it is admitted that the nineteenth century has been the century of Socialism, Liberalism and Democracy, it does not follow that the twentieth must also be the century of Liberalism, Socialism and Democracy. Political doctrines pass; peoples remain. It is to be expected that this century may be that of authority, a century of the 'Right,' a Fascist century.\" \n\nFascism has had complicated relations regarding capitalism, which changed over time and differed between Fascist states. Fascists commonly have sought to eliminate the autonomy of large-scale capitalism to the state. Fascists support the state having control over the economy, although they support the existence of private property. When fascists have criticized capitalism, they have focused their attacks on \"finance capitalism\", the international nature of banks and the stock exchange and its cosmopolitan bourgeois character. Under fascism, the profit motive continues to be the primary motivation of contributors to the economy. That policy abruptly changed in Italy by 1934 when Mussolini \"reiterated that capitalism, as an economic system, was no longer viable\". Mussolini went so far as to proclaim that the economy of Fascist Italy was to be \"based not on individual profit but on collective interest\". Originally, Fascists theoreticians supported limited private property, individual initiative and market economy because it was—as expounded by Sergio Panunzio, a major theoretician of Italian Fascism-- \"the only economic system that allowed a socialism for the entire nation\" since it was believed to encourage \"productionism\". Most Fascist theoreticians and revolutionary syndicalists followed Karl Marx's admonition that a nation required \"full maturation of capitalism as the precondition for socialist realization\". Fascist intellectuals were determined to foster economic development in order for a syndicalist economy to \"attain its productive maximum\" that was identified as crucial to \"socialist revolution\". Italian Fascism's position towards capitalism adjusted over time, as the Italian Fascist movement in 1919 was radical and anti-capitalist, where he continued to campaign for \"nationalization of land\" and to have \"workers' participation in the running of factories\", but became more moderate in the 1920s when it sought to consolidate power, allied with the \"squadrismo\" and then grew more radical again during the 1930s under its entrenchment of power and by 1940 again emphasized anti-capitalism.\n\nMussolini praised the historic developments of \"heroic capitalism\" – what Mussolini considered the first stage of capitalism, which he found had provided useful economic developments, but he claimed that capitalism had deteriorated, and criticized the contemporary stage of capitalism that he termed \"supercapitalism\". He argued: \nI do not intend to defend capitalism or capitalists. They, like everything human, have their defects. I only say their possibilities of usefulness are not ended. Capitalism has borne the monstrous burden of the war and today still has the strength to shoulder the burdens of peace. ... It is not simply and solely an accumulation of wealth, it is an elaboration, a selection, a co-ordination of values which is the work of centuries. ... Many think, and I myself am one of them, that capitalism is scarcely at the beginning of its story. \n\nYears later in a 14 November 1933 speech, Mussolini decidedly rebuked economic liberalism and \"laissez-faire\". In the United States, the \"Hearst Press\" printed his speech under the headline: \"Mussolini Abolishes the Capitalist System\". Mussolini declared:\nTo-day we can affirm that the capitalistic method of production is out of date. So is the doctrine of \"laissez-faire\", the theoretical basis of capitalism… To-day we are taking a new and decisive step in the path of revolution. A revolution, in order to be great, must be a social revolution.\n\nTo Mussolini, the capitalism of his time had degenerated from original capitalism, which he called dynamic or heroic capitalism (1830–1870) to static capitalism (1870–1914) and then finally to decadent capitalism or supercapitalism, which began in 1914. In 1933, Mussolini, amid the Great Depression, announced that modern supercapitalism was a failed economic system that was the result of the long-term degeneration of capitalism. Mussolini denounced supercapitalism for causing the \"standardization of humankind\" and for causing excessive consumption. Fascists argued that supercapitalism \"would ultimately decay and open the way for a Marxist revolution as labor-capital relations broke down\".\n\nMussolini claimed that supercapitalism resulted in the collapse of the capitalist system in the Great Depression. Mussolini claimed that fascism would preserve those elements of capitalism that were deemed beneficial, such as private enterprise provided that it would be supervised by the state in fascist economics. However, Mussolini claimed that fascism explicitly rejected the typical capitalist elements of economic individualism and laissez-faire. Furthermore, Italian Fascism also acknowledged socialist influences, such as revolutionary syndicalism. Mussolini claimed that in supercapitalism \"[it] is then that a capitalist enterprise, when difficulties arise, throws itself like a dead weight into the state's arms. It is then that state intervention begins and becomes more necessary. It is then that those who once ignored the state now seek it out anxiously\". Due to the inability of businesses to operate properly when facing economic difficulties, Mussolini claimed that this proved that state intervention into the economy was necessary to stabilize the economy.\n\nNot long after the creation of the Institute of Industrial Reconstruction, Mussolini boasted in a 1934 speech to his Chamber of Deputies: \"Three-fourths of Italian economy, industrial and agricultural, is in the hands of the state\". As Italy continued to nationalization its economy, the IRI \"became the owner not only of the three most important Italian banks, which were clearly too big to fail, but also of the lion's share of the Italian industries\".\n\nDuring this period, Mussolini identified his economic policies with \"state capitalism\" and \"state socialism\", which later was described as \"economic dirigisme\", an economic system where the state has the power to direct economic production and allocation of resources. Earlier in 1922, Lenin employed the same phrase to favorably characterize \"state capitalism\" as an appropriate economic system for Soviet Russia that would encompass \"a free market and capitalism, both subject to state control\", where according to Lenin every state-owned enterprises had to operated on a \"profit basis\".\n\nBy 1939, Fascist Italy attained the highest rate of state–ownership of an economy in the world other than the Soviet Union, where the Italian state \"controlled over four-fifths of Italy’s shipping and shipbuilding, three-quarters of its pig iron production and almost half that of steel\".\n\nItalian Fascism presented the economic system of corporatism as the solution that would preserve private enterprise and property while allowing the state to intervene in the economy when private enterprise failed. Corporatism was promoted as reconciling the interests of capital and labour. Italian capitalist industrialists had opposed the Fascist government's intervention in arbitration of labour relations, and dominant groups in finance were strongly opposed to Mussolini's decision to revalue the Italian lira to be the same as the British pound in 1926–1927. Gino Olivetti, head of the Italian Confederation of Industry, remained suspicious of the possibility of government intervention in the economy to support Fascist trade unions.\n\nFrom 1937 to 1939, Mussolini encouraged Italians to foster an anti-bourgeois attitude by having Italians send in anti-bourgeois cartoons to be published in newspapers and by denouncing \"social games, five o'clock tea, vacations, compassion for Jews, preference for armchairs, desire for compromise, desire for money\" as indulgent bourgeois practices. In 1938, Mussolini excalated a public relations campaign against the Italian bourgeoisie, accusing them of preferring private gain to national victory. Mussolini ordered Fascist Party members to detach themselves from bourgeois culture, including abstaining from going to nightclubs, drinking coffee, wearing formal evening dress and starching their collars, which were all considered bourgeois traits. That year, Mussolini's anti-bourgeois theme spoke of removing first-class compartments, dining cars and sleepers on railroads and possibly closing the stock exchange. Also in that year, Mussolini appointed Achille Starace to his cabinet. Starace criticized Northern Italian bourgeoisie for Fascism's inability to permeate across the Italian nation, accusing them of being pacifist and pro-England.\n\nNazi officials, such as Joseph Goebbels and Heinrich Himmler, in private viewed Nazism as more radical than Italian Fascism, which they identified as being too supportive of capitalism.\n\nThe Nazis argued that capitalism damages nations due to international finance, the economic dominance of big business and Jewish influences within it. Adolf Hitler, both in public and in private, held strong disdain for capitalism and he accused modern capitalism of holding nations ransom in the interests of a parasitic cosmopolitan rentier class. He opposed free-market capitalism's profit-seeking impulses and desired an economy in which community interests would be upheld. He distrusted capitalism for being unreliable due to it having an egotistic nature and he preferred a state-directed economy. By the early 1940s, over 500 companies in key German industries had been nationalized, mostly accomplished through the creation of the Reichswerke Hermann Göring in 1937. Multi-national industries in occupied territory were particularly targeted for state ownership, where the Reichswerke absorbed approximately 50–60% of heavy industry in Czech and slightly less in Austria. Göring industrial empire was a major attempt towards \"restricting private industrial capitalism and substituting a 'völkisch', state-run industrial economy\". Hitler's National Socialist regime was committed to an economic \"New Order\" controlled by the \"Party through a bureaucratic apparatus staffed by technical experts and dominated by political interests\", similar to the economic planning of the Soviet Union.\n\nHitler said: \"It may be that today gold has become the exclusive ruler of life, but the time will come when man will bow down before a higher god. Many things owe their existence solely to the longing for money and wealth, but there is very little among them whose non-existence would leave humanity any the poorer\". Hitler told one party leader in 1934: \"The economic system of our day is the creation of the Jews\". In a discussion with Mussolini, Hitler said that \"[c]apitalism had run its course\". In another conversation, Hitler stated that business bourgeoisie \"know nothing except their profit. 'Fatherland' is only a word for them\". Hitler was personally disgusted with the ruling bourgeois elites of Germany that he obscenely referred to as a \"cowardly shits\". \n\nThe Spanish Falange also held anti-capitalist positions. Falangist leader José Antonio Primo de Rivera in 1935 declared: \"We reject the capitalist system, which disregards the needs of the people, dehumanizes private property and transforms the workers into shapeless masses prone to misery and despair\". The Romanian Iron Guard espoused anti-capitalist, anti-banking and anti-bourgeois rhetoric. The Arrow Cross Party of Hungary held strong anti-feudal and anti-capitalist beliefs and supported redistribution of property.\n\nConservatives and fascists in Europe have held similar positions on many issues, including anti-communism and support of national pride. Conservatives and fascists both reject the liberal and Marxist emphasis on linear progressive evolution in history. Fascism's emphasis on order, discipline, hierarchy, martial (military) virtues and preservation of private property appealed to conservatives. Fascists' promotion of \"healthy\", \"uncontaminated\" elements of national tradition such as chivalric culture and glorifying a nation's historical golden age have similarities with conservative aims. Fascists also made pragmatic tactical alliances with traditional conservative forces in order to achieve and maintain power.\n\nHowever, Arthur M. Schlesinger, Jr. saw little conservative influence within fascist ideology or its movement, writing: \"Fascists were not conservative in any very meaningful sense… The Fascists, in a meaningful sense, were revolutionaries\". In his 1933 English-translated \"Political and Social Doctrine of Fascism\", Mussolini argued that the Fascist state is an \"original creation\", maintaining that Fascism \"is not reactionary, but revolutionary\". Fascists of Italy and Germany opposed the traditional constituents of conservatism, which included the monarchy, the Church and Jewish-financed capitalism, alongside \"disdain for bourgeois values\", while upholding the \"Volksgemeinschaft\" concept of self-sacrifice that was to bring about \"social equality\". After 1930, the \"nationalist-conservative Right\" turned hostile to the Nazis, portraying Hitler as a \"wild and vulgar demagogue, not a statesman, an obstacle to political recovery, the head of an extremist movement with menacing socialistic tendencies\". Hitler enshrined his collectivist ethos under the slogan of the \"common good before the individual good\", which was stamped on Nazi Germany's coinage. \n\nUnlike conservatism, fascism specifically presents itself as a modern ideology that is willing to break free from moral and political constraints of traditional society. The conservative authoritarian right is distinguished from fascism in that such conservatives utilized traditional religion as the basis for their views while fascists based their views on more complex issues such as vitalism, nonrationalism or secular neo-idealism.\n\nMany of fascism's recruits were disaffected right-wing conservatives who were dissatisfied with the traditional right's inability to achieve national unity and its inability to respond to socialism, feminism, economic crisis and international difficulties. With traditional conservative parties in Europe severely weakened in the aftermath of World War I, there was a political vacuum on the right which fascism filled.\n\nFascism is strongly opposed to the individualism found in classical liberalism. Fascists accuse liberalism as being the cause of despiritualization of human beings and transforming them into materialistic beings in which the highest ideal is moneymaking. In particular, fascism opposes liberalism for its materialism, rationalism, individualism and utilitarianism. Fascists believe that the liberal emphasis on individual freedom produces national divisiveness. Mussolini directed his criticism not against modern, Keynesian liberalism, but the older form of classical liberalism, due to its individualistic nature, writing: \"Against individualism, the Fascist conception is for the State; ... It is opposed to classical Liberalism ... Liberalism denied the State in the interests of the particular individual; Fascism reaffirms the State as the true reality of the individual\". However, Fascists and Nazis support a type of hierarchical individualism in the form of Social Darwinism because they believe it promotes \"superior individuals\" and weeds out \"the weak\". They also accused both Marxism and democracy, with their emphasis on equality, of destroying individuality in favor of the \"dead weight\" of the masses.\n\nOne issue where Fascism is in accord with liberalism is in its support of private property rights and the existence of a market economy. Although Fascism sought to \"destroy the existing political order\", it had tentatively adopted the economic elements of liberalism, but \"completely denied its philosophical principles and the intellectual and moral heritage of modernity\". Due to the economic hardships that resulted from \"War Communism\", which almost toppled the leadership of Soviet Russia in 1921, fascists in Germany and Italy followed the examples of Lenin's New Economic Policy (NEP), which had endorsed \"state capitalism\" and permitted the public to trade, buy and sell for \"private profit\". Although the Bolsheviks were averse to the principles of open markets and profit, they were nonetheless forced by dire circumstances to allow \"privatization and private initiative\" that resulted in a Soviet \"mixed economy\". For fascist leaders, following the two economic pillars of Fascism — \"productionism\" and \"syndicalism\" — was more important than adhering to ideological commitments that could risk economic collapse and mass unemployment that had plagued Lenin's nationalization policies. Moreover, Fascism espoused antimaterialism, which meant that it rejected the \"rationalistic, individualistic and utilitarian heritage\" that defined the liberal-centric Age of Enlightenment.\n\nBoth National Socialist Germany and Fascist Italy were welfare states that spent heavily on public works. A former school teacher, Mussolini's spending on the public sector, schools and infrastructure was considered extravagant. Mussolini \"instituted a programme of public works hitherto unrivalled in modern Europe. Bridges, canals, and roads were built, hospitals and schools, railway stations and orphanages; swamps were drained and land reclaimed, forests were planted and universities were endowed\". As for the scope and spending of social welfare programs, Italian fascism \"compared favorably with the more advanced European nations and in some respect was more progressive\". When New York City politician Grover Aloysius Whalen asked Mussolini about the meaning behind Italian Fascism in 1939, the reply was: \"It is like your New Deal!\".\n\nBy 1925, the Fascist government had \"embarked upon an elaborate program\" that included food supplementary assistance, infant care, maternity assistance, general healthcare, wage supplements, paid vacations, unemployment benefits, illness insurance, occupational disease insurance, general family assistance, public housing and old age and disability insurance. As for public works, the Mussolini administration \"devoted 400 million lire of public monies\" for school construction between 1922 and 1942, compared to only 60 million lire between 1862 and 1922.\n\nHitler and the German National Socialists spent large amounts of state revenues for a comprehensive social welfare system to combat the ill effects of the Great Depression, promising repeatedly throughout his regime the \"creation of a socially just state\". In 1933, Hitler ordered the National Socialist People's Welfare (NSV) chairman Erich Hilgenfeldt to \"see to the disbanding of all private welfare institutions\" in an effort to socially engineer society by selecting who was to receive social benefits. Under this state-operated welfare structure, Nazi administrators were able to mount an effort towards the \"cleansing of their cities of 'asocials'\". Nonetheless, the NSV instituted expansive programs to address the socio-economic inequalities among those deemed to be German citizens. Joseph Goebbels remarked about the merits of Hitler's welfare state in a 1944 editorial \"Our Socialism\", where he professed: \"We and we alone [the Nazis] have the best social welfare measures. Everything is done for the nation\".\n\nWith 17 million Germans receiving assistance under the auspices of National Socialist People's Welfare (NSV) by 1939, the agency \"projected a powerful image of caring and support\". The National Socialists provided a plethora of social welfare programs under Nazi's concept of Volksgemeinschaft which promoted the collectivity of a \"people's community\" where citizens would sacrifice themselves for the greater good. The NSV operated \"8,000 day-nurseries\" by 1939 and funded holiday homes for mothers, distributed additional food for large families and was involved with a \"wide variety of other facilities\".\nThe Nazi social welfare provisions included old age insurance, rent supplements, unemployment and disability benefits, old-age homes, interest-free loans for married couples, along with healthcare insurance, which was not decreed mandatory until 1941 One of the NSV branches, the Office of Institutional and Special Welfare, was responsible \"for travellers' aid at railway stations; relief for ex-convicts; 'support' for re-migrants from abroad; assistance for the physically disabled, hard-of-hearing, deaf, mute, and blind; relief for the elderly, homeless and alcoholics; and the fight against illicit drugs and epidemics\". The Office of Youth Relief, which had 30,000 branches offices by 1941, took the job of supervising \"social workers, corrective training, mediation assistance\" and dealing with judicial authorities to prevent juvenile delinquency.\n\nFascism is historically strongly opposed to socialism and communism, due to their support of class revolution as well as \"decadent\" values, including internationalism, egalitarianism, horizontal collectivism, materialism and cosmopolitanism. Fascists have thus commonly campaigned with anti-communist agendas. Fascism opposed the international character of mainstream socialism, but in opposing this international character, it often defined itself as a \"nationalist\" form of socialism, an alternative to the mainstream form of socialism which it regarded as its bitter enemy. Hitler at times attempted to redefine the word socialism, such as saying: \"Socialism! That is an unfortunate word altogether... What does socialism really mean? If people have something to eat and their pleasures, then they have their socialism\". In 1930, Hitler said: \"Our adopted term 'Socialist' has nothing to do with Marxist Socialism. Marxism is anti-property; true Socialism is not\". The name that Hitler later wished he had used to describe his political party was \"social revolutionary\". \n\nMainstream socialists have typically rejected and opposed fascism in turn. However, fascism and communism have common positions in their opposition to liberalism, capitalism, individualism and parliamentarism. Fascists and communists also agree on the need for violent revolution to forge a new era. While fascism is opposed to Bolshevism, both Bolshevism and fascism promote the one-party state and the use of political party militias.\n\nFascism denounces democratic socialism as a failure. Fascists oppose it for its support of reformism and the parliamentary system that fascism reject. However, social democracy, similar but less socialist than democratic socialism, was denounced by Joseph Stalin and Grigory Zinoviev as a variant of fascism—\"social fascism\"—and that designation became the \"official ideology of the world Communist movement. Stalin described fascism and social democracy as \"twin brothers\".\n\nItalian Fascism had ideological connections with revolutionary syndicalism, in particular Sorelian syndicalism. The Italian Fascist regime officially acknowledged revolutionary syndicalist Georges Sorel—along with Hubert Lagardelle and his journal \"Le Mouvement socialiste\"—as major influences on fascism. According to Sternhell, \"most syndicalist leaders were among the founders of the Fascist movement\" and that by the mid-1920s \"many even held key posts\" in the Fascist regime.\n\nThe Sorelian emphasis on the need for a revolution based upon action of intuition, a cult of energy and vitality, activism, heroism and the utilization of myth was utilized by fascists. Many prominent fascist figures were formerly associated with revolutionary syndicalism, including Mussolini, Arturo Labriola, Robert Michels, Sergio Panunzio and Paolo Orano.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "250745", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=250745", "title": "George Croom Robertson", "text": "George Croom Robertson\n\nGeorge Croom Robertson (10 March 1842 – 20 September 1892) was a Scottish philosopher.\n\nHe was born in Aberdeen. In 1857 he gained a bursary at Marischal College, and graduated MA in 1861, with the highest honours in classics and philosophy. In the same year he won a Fergusson scholarship of £100 a year for two years, which enabled him to pursue his studies outside Scotland. He went first to University College, London; at the University of Heidelberg he worked on his German; at the Humboldt University in Berlin he studied psychology, metaphysics and also physiology under Emil du Bois-Reymond, and heard lectures on Hegel, Kant and the history of philosophy, ancient and modern. After two months at the University of Göttingen, he went to Paris in June 1863. In the same year he returned to Aberdeen and helped Alexander Bain with the revision of some of his books.\n\nIn 1864 he was appointed to help William Duguid Geddes with his Greek classes, but he devoted his vacations to working on philosophy. In 1866 he was appointed professor of philosophy of mind and logic at University College, London. He remained there until he was forced by ill-health to resign a few months before his death, lecturing on logic, deductive and inductive, systematic psychology and ethics.\n\nHe left little published work. A comprehensive work on Hobbes was never completed, though part of the materials were used for an article in the Encyclopædia Britannica, and another portion was published as one of Blackwood's \"Philosophical Classics.\" Together with Bain, he edited George Grote's \"Aristotle\", and was the editor of \"Mind\" from its foundation in 1876 till 1891.\nRobertson had a keen interest in German philosophy, and took every opportunity to make German works on English writers known in the United Kingdom. In philosophy he was principally a follower of Bain and John Stuart Mill. He and his wife (a daughter of Mr Justice Crompton) were involved in many kinds of social work; he sat on the Committee of the National Society for Women's Suffrage, and was actively associated with its president, John Stuart Mill. He also supported the admission of women students to University College.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "28597743", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28597743", "title": "Grigory Pomerants", "text": "Grigory Pomerants\n\nGrigory Solomonovich Pomerants (also: Grigorii or Grigori, , 13 March 1918, Vilnius – 16 February 2013, Moscow) was a Russian philosopher and cultural theorist. He is the author of numerous philosophical works that circulated in samizdat and made an impact on the liberal intelligentsia in the 1960s and 1970s.\n\nGrigory Pomerants was born in 1918 to a Polish Jewish family in Vilnius, Lithuania. His family moved to Moscow in 1925. Pomerants graduated in Russian language and literature from the (IFLI, MIFLI). His thesis on Fyodor Dostoyevsky was condemned as \"anti-Marxist\" and as a result he was barred from admission to post-graduate studies in 1939. He went on to lecture at the Tula Pedagogical Institute in 1940.\n\nDuring the Second World War, Pomerants volunteered to the front, where he fought as a Red Army infantryman. He was wounded in the leg, as a result of which he was assigned as a writer to the editorial office of the divisional newspaper. He was awarded the Order of the Red Star.\n\nIn 1946, he was expelled from the Communist Party for \"anti-Party statements\". Three years later he was arrested and sentenced to five years' imprisonment for anti-Soviet agitation. After Joseph Stalin's death in 1953, he was released due to a general amnesty. He did not rejoin the Party, which prohibited him from teaching at tertiary level. He was also denid Moscow residence. From 1953 to 1956, Pomerants worked as a village school teacher in the Donets Basin and later, upon his return to Moscow, as a bibliographer in the Fundamental Library of Social Sciences of the Russian Academy of Sciences.\n\nUnder the impression of the Hungarian Revolution of 1956 and the persecution of Boris Pasternak, Pomerants became active as a dissident. In 1959–1960, he led semi-secret seminars on philosophical, historical, political and economic issues. During this time he established contact with dissidents such as Vladimir Osipov and the editors and contributors of the dissident magazine \"Sintaksis\" Alexander Ginzburg, Natalya Gorbanevskaya and Yuri Galanskov. He also became close to the painters of the underground Lianozovo group.\n\nOn December 3, 1965, Pomerants gave a lecture at the Institute of Philosophy in Moscow publicly denouncing Stalinism. It caused a sensation and became one of the early pieces of samizdat literature. In 1968, he co-signed a petition in support of the participants of the 1968 Red Square demonstration against the introduction of Soviet troops into Czechoslovakia. He also put his signature to Larisa Bogoraz and Pavel Litvinov's \"Appeal to the World Public Opinion\" in protest of Trial of the Four. As a result, he was deprived of any opportunity to defend his thesis on Zen Buddhism at the Moscow Institute of Oriental Studies.\n\nIn addition to official articles, which focused on the spiritual traditions of India and China, Pomerants began to write essays on historical and social topics. While his works were soon stopped from being printed in the Soviet Union, they were widely published in samizdat. They were also reprinted in the western émigré magazines \"Kontinent\", \"Sintaksis\" and \"Strana i Mir\", and a collection of essays under the title \"Neopublikovannoe\" (Unpublished Works) was published in 1972 in Frankfurt.\n\nPomerants' political and social articles as well as his public conduct attracted the attention of the KGB. On November 14, 1984, Pomerants was officially warned in connection with his publications abroad. On May 26, 1985, KGB agents searched his flat and confiscated his literary archive.\n\nAndrei Sakharov, who had met Pomerants in an informal seminar at Valentin Turchin's flat in 1970, describes his interests as follows:\n\nPomerants was among the first Russian disciples of cultural and literary theorist Mikhail Bakhtin.\n\nFor many years, Pomerants was involved in polemics with Alexander Solzhenitsyn. Pomerants strongly criticized what he saw as Solzhenitsyn's dogmatic Christian nationalism and positioned himself closer to the liberal, internationalist wing of the intelligentsia. He countered Solzhenitsyn's notion of \"evil\" as an unavoidably global, well-established phenomenon, associated with Communism, by citing Eastern traditions which reject the notion of an inherently permanent, ontological evil.\n\nPomerants himself stated that he preferred to be called a \"thinker\" (\"myslitel\"') rather than a \"philosopher\", since this term does not imply the academic discipline of philosophy, which he felt was merely neighboring his own work (\"po sosedstvu\").\n\nOne of the most quoted pieces in Russian by Pomerants reflected his views on the nature of social debate:\nPomerants' lectures and a rejected thesis on Zen Buddhism were studied by filmmaker Andrei Tarkovsky and composer Eduard Artemyev during their work on \"Stalker\". Pomerants also appears in the 2008 documentary \"Meeting Andrei Tarkovsky\".\n\nIn 2009, The Bjørnson Prize of the Norwegian Academy of Literature and Freedom of Expression was awarded to Pomerants and Mirkina \"for their extensive contribution to strengthening the freedom of expression in Russia.\"\n\nPomerants was married to Russian poet Zinaida Mirkina. He died, aged 94, in Moscow, Russia.\n\n"}
{"id": "1830835", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1830835", "title": "Han Yong-un", "text": "Han Yong-un\n\nHan Yong-un (, August 29, 1879 – June 29, 1944) was a twentieth century Korean Buddhist reformer and poet. This name was his religious name, given by his meditation instructor in 1905, and Manhae (만해) was his pen name; his birth name was Han Yu-cheon.\n\nManhae was born in Yucheon in Chungcheongnam-do, Hongseong. During his childhood, he studied Chinese classics in Seodang, a popular elementary school during the Joseon Dynasty. Prior to being ordained, he was involved in resistance to Japanese influence in the country, which culminated in the Japanese occupation from 1905 to 1945. He lived in seclusion at Ose-am in the Baekdam Temple from 1896. During this period, he studied Buddhist sacred texts and several books of modern philosophy. In 1905 he received the robes of the Jogye Order of monks and in 1908 he went to Japan and visited several temples to study Buddhism and Eastern philosophy for six months. In 1919 he was one of the patriot signatories to the Korean Declaration of Independence.\n\nAs a social writer, Manhae called for the reform of Korean Buddhism.\n\nManhae's poetry dealt with both nationalism and sexual love, often mingling the two. One of his more political collections was \"Nimui Chimmuk\" (Lover's Silence, 님의 침묵), published in 1926. These works revolve around the ideas of equality and freedom and helped inspire the tendencies toward passive resistance and non-violence in the Korean independence movement.\n\nIn 1913, Han Yongun published \"The Restoration of Korean Buddhism (\"Joseonbulgyo-yusimlon\"), which criticized the anachronistic isolationist policy of Joseon Buddhism and its incongruence with the then contemporary reality. The work sent tremors through the intellectual world. In this work, the author promulgated the principle of equality, self-discovery, the potential for Buddhism for safeguarding the world, and progress. His development as an activist and thinker resulted from his adherence to these very principles.\n\nIn 1918, Han published \"Whole Mind\" (\"Yusim\"), a work that aimed to enlighten young people. In the following year, he played an important role in the 3.1 Independence movement with Chae Lin, for which he was later imprisoned and served a three-year sentence. During his imprisonment, Han composed \"Reasons for Korean Independence\" (\"Joseondoglib-i-yuseo\") as a response to the official investigation into his political engagement. He was later acquitted in 1922, at which time he began a nationwide lecture tour. The purpose of the tour was to engage and inspire youth, an objective first established in Han's \"Whole Mind\". In 1924, he became the Chair of the Buddhist youth assembly.\n\nThe poems published in Han's \"Nim-ui Chimmuk\" had been written at Baekdam Temple in the previous year. This book garnered much attention from literary critics and intellectuals at the time. Despite his many other publications, from Chinese poems to sijos and the poems included in \"Yusim\", and novels such as Dark Wind (\"Heukpung\"), Regret (\"Huhoe\"), Misfortune (\"Bakmyeong\"), this collection remains the poet's most significant and enduring literary achievement. In it, love for the motherland plainly appears under the guise of longing for the loved one, as in the poem \"I Do Not Know\".\n\nHan's model for such rhapsodic, long-lined expressions of devotion was Rabindranath Tagore, whose work he knew, and behind Tagore the long Indian tradition of combining mysticism with eroticism.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "22812187", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22812187", "title": "Hilary Lawson", "text": "Hilary Lawson\n\nHilary Lawson is an English post-realist philosopher. Known for his theory of closure, he is director of the Institute of Art and Ideas and founder of the philosophy festival HowTheLightGetsIn. He has also had a journalistic and documentary career, is the founder of TVF Media, and the originator of the video painting movement.\n\nHilary Lawson was born and grew up in Bristol, England, the only son of Harold Lawson and his wife Norma (née Gear). Awarded a scholarship whilst an undergraduate at Balliol College Oxford he gained a first in PPE. As a post-graduate he came to see paradoxes of self-reference as the central philosophical issue and began a DPhil on The Reflexivity of Discourse. This later became the basis for his first philosophical book \"Reflexivity: The Post-Modern Predicament\".\n\nAlongside his philosophical writing, Lawson pursued a media career. Within a few years he had created his own prime time television series \"Where There's Life\" with a weekly UK audience in excess of ten million. In 1982 Hilary Lawson co-authored a book based on the series. At 28, he was appointed Editor of Programmes and later Deputy Chief Executive at the television station TV-am.\n\nMeanwhile he continued to develop his philosophical thinking and had initial sketches of the theory later to become Closure. In 1985 he wrote \"Reflexivity: The Post-Modern Predicament\" (1985), as part of a series on modern European thought. The book argued that the paradoxes of self-reference are central to philosophy and drive the writings of Nietzsche, Heidegger and Derrida.\n\nIn the late 1980s he founded the production company TVF Media which made documentary and current affairs programming, including Channel 4's flagship international current affairs programme, \"The World This Week\". Hilary Lawson was editor of the programme which ran weekly between 1987 and 1991. The programme predicted the fall of the Berlin Wall, the war in Yugoslavia and the Iraqi invasion of Kuwait.\n\nIn the 1990s, he focused on writing \"Closure\". It took a decade to complete and was published in 2001. The book has been described as the first non-realist metaphysics. Having begun his philosophical career as a proponent of postmodernism latterly he became a critic arguing for the necessity of an overall framework and the need to move on from a focus on language. Applying the framework of openness and closure to the visual medium, he created the first video paintings in 2001 with the aim of escaping narrative closure. He went on to found the Artscape Project in 2003, which brought a collective of artists together to develop the new medium. Lawson founded the Institute of Art and Ideas in 2008 with the aim of making ideas and philosophy a central part of cultural life. IAI.tv was launched in 2011. IAI news in 2013 and the IAI Academy in 2014.\n\nHilary Lawson's theory 'Closure' proposes that the human condition is to find ourselves on the cusp of openness and closure. The world is open and we, along with other living organisms, are able to apprehend and make sense of it through the process of closure. Lawson defines closure as the holding of that which is different as one and the same. Human experience is seen to be the result of successive layers of closure, which Lawson describes as preliminary, sensory and inter-sensory closure. The highest level of closure, inter-sensory closure realises language and thought. The theory shifts the focus of philosophy away from language and towards an exploration of the relationship between openness and closure. An important element of the theory of closure is its own self-referential character.\n\nThe framework of closure enables Lawson to give an account of the relationship between language and the world that does not rely on reference and which he argues overcomes the problem of how language is hooked onto the world that has beset twentieth century philosophy. One of the consequences of the theory is that philosophical oppositions, between language and the world, fact and value, are no longer regarded as oppositions and instead are seen as a consequence of the play of closure and openness. As a result, science is not in opposition to art and religion but in a different relationship to openness and closure. Lawson proposes that science is 'driven by the search for closure'. The pursuit of closure cannot however succeed and in the failure of closure openness is uncovered. Art in contrast is described as 'the pursuit of openness and the avoidance of closure'. In turn the pursuit of openness cannot succeed and elements of closure remain.\n\nLawson began his philosophical development at Oxford University, one of the primary centres of the analytic school. While still an undergraduate he became convinced that problems of self-reference undermined the analytic project. His trajectory to this conclusion started with the reflexive problems of relativism which were explored with the political theorist, Steven Lukes; continued with an examination of Wittgenstein's Tractatus, with the translator BF McGuiness; and were cemented in conversation with Alan Montefiore who had close links with Jacques Derrida and was aware of similarities of argument and approach.\n\nAs can be seen from the pamphlet After Truth - A Post Modern Manifesto written in collaboration with Hugh Tomlinson the translator of a number of Deleuze's works, under the pseudonym the 2nd of January group, Hilary Lawson's approach increasingly diverged from the mainstream of analytic philosophy having more in common with the American philosopher Richard Rorty and the French philosopher Jacques Derrida. Rorty collaborated on his film \"Science...fiction?\" which argued that \"science is not powerful because it is true, but true because it is powerful\" and took part in a subsequent documentary film of his on Plato entitled \"The First World\". Rorty also contributed to a collection of essays co-edited by Hilary Lawson: \"Dismantling Truth: Reality in the Post-Modern World\"\n\nLawson's subsequent work can be seen as a response to the writings of Rorty and Derrida, and an attempt to overcome the self-referential paradoxes in which he believed they were mired. While in his early work he is a proponent of postmodernism he has latterly become a critic arguing for a return to metaphysics and the necessity of an overall theory. This is apparent in his public debates with John Searle, Simon Blackburn and others.\n\nIn \"Reflexivity\" Hilary Lawson argued that self-reference was central to contemporary philosophy. Using Nietzsche, Heidegger and Derrida as the main examples, he sought to show that reflexivity was the primary motor of their work. It was implicit that similar arguments could be applied to Wittgenstein and the analytic tradition.\n\nThe introduction to \"Closure\", referred to as the Prologue, extends the arguments put forward in \"Reflexivity\" to the broader philosophical tradition. It argues that issues of self-reference undermine currently available philosophical positions. The main body of the book describes the process of closure and the means by which we can intervene in the world and seemingly understand it. In doing so it seeks to demonstrate that meaning and understanding are not dependent on notions of reference and truth, arguing that although there is nothing in common between closure and openness this does not limit our ability to intervene successfully in the world.\n\nOther books include \"Dismantling Truth: Science in Post-Modern Times\", and \"Closure: A Story of Everything\". Articles include \"After Truth\", \"On Integrity\", \"Philosophy As\", and \"The Poetic Strategy\".\n\nThe BFI (British Film Institute) lists more than 200 credits as producer, director, writer or presenter.\n\nHis documentary films include: \"Your Own Worst Enemy\", writer and producer, (ITV); \"Science … fiction?\", written and directed (BBC); \"Broken Images\", written and directed (BBC); \"The First World\", written and directed (Channel 4); \"The Man, the Myth, and The Maker\", produced and presented (Channel 4); \"DNA in the Dock\", written and directed (Channel 4); \"The Greenhouse Conspiracy\", written, directed and presented (Channel 4); \"Incredible Evidence\" (90mins), written and directed (Channel 4).\n\nHis current affairs output includes: \"The World This Week\" (1hr, weekly 1988-93), Editor (Channel 4); \"Cooking the Books\", written and directed (Channel 4); \"South Africa: After Apartheid\", produced and presented (Channel 4); \"Patent on Life\", written and directed (Channel 4); \"For Queen or Country\", written and directed (Channel 4).\n\nLawson shot the first video paintings, \"Orange and Grey\", and \"Cusp\" in 2001 and 2002. He founded the Artscape Project in 2003 consisting of a collective of artists, including William Raban, Sarah Turner, Sanchita Islam and Isabelle Inghillieri, whose aim was to develop and explore the medium of the video painting. The Artscape Project is now represented by Open Gallery.\n\nThe video painting flows from his philosophical outlook and constitutes a break from the film-making narratives that had been his focus for more than a decade. Hilary Lawson sees video painting as a means to encourage the viewer to escape everyday closures and approach openness, or what Heidegger would have called Being.\n\nIn 2003 he was instrumental in developing a technology with computer scientists which enabled video paintings to be stored and played in such a manner that their order did not repeat but was also not random. The software and technology (known as Laluna) were created in order to allow video paintings to be integrated and put together so that they could constitute collections of work that never repeated or recapitulated, and yet had structure.\n\nHis video painting work has been exhibited at: the Hayward Gallery (2006); Sketch (2007), the ICA (2007), and The Globe at Hay gallery (2008). \"Now Revisited\", performed at Shunt, London in 2009, was a video painting installation in five acts in which the audience found themselves the subject of the work.\n\nHilary Lawson is also the owner of Quarter in Clifton, Bristol which includes the Clifton Hotels, Clifton Short Lets, Studio 31 and the Berkeley Suites.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "13901760", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13901760", "title": "Hirsch Bär Fassel", "text": "Hirsch Bär Fassel\n\nHirsch Bär Fassel (1802-1883) (also known as Hirsch Baer Fassel or Hirsch B. Fassel) was an influential rabbi and philosopher. He was born in Boskowitz. His book \"Mozene Zedek\", a manual for rabbis on Talmudic decisions on practical matters, urged other rabbis to be lenient in making rulings against individuals in non-criminal matters. Fassel believed that reforms in Judaism were legitimate, so long as they were brought about by rabbis.\n\nHirsch was a prolific writer who often had his sermons published in the Jewish press, and who was a frequent contributor to Austrian Jewish newspapers. In addition to \"Mozene Zedek,\" he wrote and published at least a dozen other books.\n\nHis manuscript of \"Mozene Zedek\" is on display at Hebrew Union College.\n\nHis daughter Rosa Sonneschein was the founder of American Jewess.\n\n"}
{"id": "744139", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=744139", "title": "Historiography of science", "text": "Historiography of science\n\nThe historiography of science is the study of the history and methodology of the sub-discipline of history, known as the history of science, including its disciplinary aspects and practices (methods, theories, schools) and to the study of its own historical development (\"History of History of Science\", i.e., the history of the discipline called History of Science).\n\nSince historiographical debates regarding the proper method for the study of the history of science are sometimes difficult to demarcate from historical controversies regarding the very course of science, it is often (and rightly) the case that the early controversies of the latter kind are considered the inception of the sub-discipline. For example, such discussions permeate the historical writings of the great historian and philosopher of science William Whewell. He is thus often (and rightly) viewed as the grandfather of this discipline; other such distinguished grandfathers are Pierre Duhem and Alexandre Koyré.\n\nAs to the explicit presentation of the Historiography of Science it is usually dated in the early Sixties of the 20th century. Thus for example, in 1965 we find Gerd Buchdahl reporting \"A Revolution in Historiography of Science\" referring to the innovative studies of Thomas Kuhn and Joseph Agassi. He suggested that these two writers had inaugurated the sub discipline by distinguishing clearly between the history and the historiography of science, as they argued that historiographical views greatly influence the writing of the history of science.\n\nThough scholars and scientists had been chronicling the results of scientific endeavors for centuries (such as William Whewell's \"History of the Inductive Sciences\" from 1837, and the popular and historical accounts which accompanied the scientific revolution of the 17th century), the development of the distinct academic discipline of the history of science and technology did not occur until the early 20th century, and was intimately bound to the changing role of science during the same time period. The history of science was once exclusively the domain of retired researchers — former scientists whose days in the laboratory had expired but still with a hearty interest in the field — and the rare specialist. However, in the decades since the end of World War II the field has evolved into a full academic discipline, with graduate schools, research institutes, public and private patronage, peer-reviewed journals, and professional societies.\n\nThe study of the history of science has had great effects on the philosophy of science, conceptions of the role of science in society, and scientific policy.\n\nThe founding figure of the discipline in the United States was George Sarton, later the founding editor of the journal \"Isis\". Sarton and his family fled Belgium after the German invasion in World War I, and after a brief stay in England, he arrived in the United States penniless and unemployed. Sarton began lecturing part-time at several academic institutions, and in 1916 began a two-year appointment at Harvard University. When his appointment did not look like it would be renewed, he appealed to Robert S. Woodward, president of the Carnegie Institution of Washington, for patronage. Woodward gave Sarton a two-year position and in 1920 extended it to a permanent tenured appointment as a Research Associate in the Institution's Department of History.\n\nThough modern scholars do not usually share Sarton's motivations — Sarton saw the history of science as the only genuine example of human progress — the tools he left to the field, the journal \"Isis\" and the annual volume \"Osiris\" (both still in print today), provided the foundation of the discipline in the United States.\n\nJust as the 1930s were a seminal decade for the development of our modern understanding of science, they were a seminal decade for the history and historiography of science as well. While Sarton taught the first American doctoral students in the discipline, in Europe some of the most influential historians and philosophers of science were first coming into the picture, and the setting of the philosophical battle which is now known as \"the Science Wars\" was being set.\n\nIn 1931, the Second International Congress of the History of Science was convened in London. The papers delivered by the Soviet delegation, led by N.I. Bukharin, quickly invigorated the discipline. Boris Hessen in particular delivered a paper entitled \"The Social and Economic Roots of Newton's \"Principia\",\" in which he asserted that Isaac Newton's most famous work was created to cater to the goals and desires of 17th century industry and economy. Hessen asserted that Newton's work was inspired by his economic status and context, that the \"Principia\" was little more than the solution of technical problems of the bourgeoisie.\n\nPresent scholarship has revealed that Hessen's motives were not completely academic. At that time in the Soviet Union, the work of Albert Einstein was under attack by Communist Party philosophers; being supposedly motivated by bourgeois values, it was \"bourgeois science\" , and should henceforth be banned. (In many ways this attack was similar to the \"Deutsche Physik\" movement in Germany which occurred only a few years later.) Hessen's paper was a lobbying tactic: Party philosophers would not challenge the accuracy of Newton's theories, and to show them as being motivated by bourgeois concerns would, in Hessen's eyes, show that scientific validity could exist whatever the motivations were for undertaking it. However, there is little evidence that his paper had any effect in the internal Soviet philosophical battles over Einstein's work.\n\nDespite its lack of effect in his home country, Hessen's thesis had a wide effect in Western history of science. Though Hessen’s work is now easily dismissed as \"vulgar Marxism\" , its focus on the relationship between society and science was, in its time, seen as novel and inspiring. It was a challenge to the notion that the history of science was the history of individual genius in action, the dominant view at least since William Whewell's \"History of the Inductive Sciences\" in 1837.\n\nFew contemporary Western readers of Hessen took his paper at face value. His rigid connection between economy and knowledge was not accepted by a majority of historians. However, his assertion that a connection existed between the growth of knowledge and the art of war, and that ballistics played a central part of physics and Newton's world, was viewed with keen interest. In the shadow of the first war to employ chemical weapons, and as the war machines were again gearing up in preparation for another world war, the role between science, technology, and warfare was becoming more interesting to scholars and scientists. Previous views of science as separate from the mundane or vulgar aspects of practical life — the disembodiment of the scientific mind from its context — were becoming less attractive than a view that science and scientists were increasingly embedded in the world in which they worked.\n\nThis became reflective in the scholarship of the time as well, with dissertations written on such subjects as \"Science and War in the Old Regime,\" which examined the ways in which military engineering influenced pre-Revolution French scientists.\n\nThis method of doing the history of science became known as \"externalism\", looking at the manner in which science and scientists are affected, and guided by, their context and the world in which they exist. It is an approach which eschews the notion that the history of science is the development of pure thought over time, one idea leading to another in a contextual bubble which could exist at any place, at any time, if only given the right geniuses.\n\nThe contrast to this approach, the method of doing history of science which preceded externalism, became known as \"internalism\". Internalist histories of science often focus on the rational reconstruction of scientific ideas and consider the development of these ideas wholly within the scientific world. Although internalist histories of modern science tend to emphasize the norms of modern science, internalist histories can also consider the different systems of thought underlying the development of Babylonian astronomy or Medieval impetus theory\n\nIn practice, the line between internalism and externalism can be incredibly fuzzy. Few historians then, or now, would insist that either of these approaches in their extremes paint a wholly complete picture, nor would it necessarily be possible to practice one fully over the other. However, at their heart they contain a basic question about the nature of science: what is the relationship between the producers and consumers of scientific knowledge? The answer to this question must, in some form, inform the method in which the history of science and technology is conducted; conversely, how the history of science and technology is conducted, and what it concludes, can inform the answer to the question. The question itself contains an entire host of philosophical questions: what is the nature of scientific truth? What does objectivity mean in a scientific context? How does change in scientific theories occur?\n\nThe historian/sociologist of science Robert K. Merton produced many famous works following Hessen's thesis, which can be seen as reactions to and refinements of Hessen's argument. In his work on science, technology, and society in the 17th century England, Merton sought to introduce an additional category — Puritanism — to explain the growth of science in this period. Merton worked to split Hessen's crude category of economics into smaller subcategories of influence, including transportation, mining, and military technique. Merton also tried to develop empirical, quantitative approaches to showing the influence of external factors on science. Despite these changes, Merton was quick to note his indebtedness to Hessen. Even with his emphasis on external factors, though, Merton differed from Hessen in his interpretation: Merton maintained that while researchers may be inspired and interested by problems which were suggested by extra-scientific factors, ultimately the researcher's interests were driven by \"the internal history of the science in question.\" Merton attempted to delineate externalism and internalism along disciplinary boundaries, with \"context\" studied by the sociologist of science, and \"content\" by the historian.\n\nAround the same period, in 1935, Ludwik Fleck, a Polish medical microbiologist published his Genesis and Development of a Scientific Fact which used a case study in the field of medicine (of the development of the disease concept of Syphilis) to present a thesis about the social nature of knowledge, and in particular science and scientific 'thought styles' (Denkstil) which are the epistemological, conceptual and linguistic styles of scientific (but also non-scientific) 'thought collectives' (Denkkollektiv). This work's importance was not noticed, as [Thaddeus J. Trenn] editor of the English edition published in 1979 writes, 'Fleck's pioneering monograph was published at almost the same time as Karl Popper's Logik der Forschung. But, developed in very different cognitive styles, the books met with contrasting response. In Popper's own words, his book \"was surprisingly successful, far beyond Vienna. [...]\" [...] It is perhaps most diagnostic that the book received no review notice at all in George Sarton's \"Isis\", by then the leading international journal of the history of science.' [pp. xvii-xviii].\n\nAs evident from Fleck's book's title, it revolves around the notion that epistemologically, there is nothing stable or realistically true or false about any scientific fact. A fact has a 'genesis' which is grounded in certain theoretic grounds and many times other obscure and fuzzy notions, and it 'develops' as it is subject to dispute and additional research by other scientists. Fleck's work, unlike Hessen's work focuses more on the epistemological and linguistic factors that affect scientific discovery, innovation and progress or development, while Hessen's work focuses on socio-political factors.\n\nFleck's work was one of the major influences noted by Thomas S. Kuhn which led to the writing his \"Structure of Scientific Revolutions\". Kuhn also wrote the foreword to Fleck's English translation.\n\nThe study of the history of science continued to be a small effort until the rise of Big Science after World War II. The influential bureaucrat Vannevar Bush, and the president of Harvard, James Conant, both encouraged the study of the history of science as a way of improving general knowledge about how science worked, and why it was essential to maintain a large scientific workforce.\n\nFrom the 1940s through the early 1960s, most histories of science were different forms of a \"march of progress\" , showing science as a triumphant movement towards truth. Many philosophers and historians did of course paint a more nuanced picture, but it was not until the publication of Thomas Kuhn's \"The Structure of Scientific Revolutions\" that this approach became seriously suspected as being misleading . Kuhn's argument that scientific revolutions worked by paradigm shifts seemed to imply that truth was not the ultimate criterion for science, and the book was extremely influential outside of academia as well . Corresponding with the rise of the environmentalism movement and a general loss of optimism of the power of science and technology unfettered to solve the problems of the world, this new history encouraged many critics to pronounce the preeminence of science to be overthrown .\n\nThe discipline today encompasses a wide variety of fields of academic study, ranging from the traditional ones of history, sociology, and philosophy, and a variety of others such as law, architecture, and literature.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1148149", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1148149", "title": "Hurufism", "text": "Hurufism\n\nHurufism ( \"ḥurūfiyyah\") was a Sufi doctrine based on the mysticism of letters (\"ḥurūf\"), which originated in Astrabad and spread to areas of western Persia and Anatolia in the late 14th–early 15th century.\n\nThe founder and spiritual head of the Hurufi movement was Fażlu l-Lāh Astar-Ābādī, also called Nāimī (1340–94). Born in Astrabad, Iran, he was strongly drawn to Sufism and the teachings of Mansur Al-Hallaj and Rumi at an early age. In the mid-1370s Nāimī started to propagate his teachings all over Persia and Azerbaijan. While living in Tabriz, Fazlallah gained an elite following in the Jalayirid court, where the writing of his main work, \"Jawidan-Al-Kabir\", allegedly took place. At that time he was still in the mainstream of Sufi tradition. Later, he did move towards more esoteric spirituality, and, failing to convert Timur, was executed in 1394 near Alinja castle in Nakhchivan by the ruler's son Miran Shah. The uprising of Hurufis, who had gathered a large following, was crushed in Azerbaijan, but the popular movement survived for another decade or so in different guises.\nAccording to Fazlallah, the key to open seventh sealed book, the Qurʾan, is a kabbalistic system of letters that is expounded by later Hurufis in the \"Hidayat Namah\", \"Jawidan\" and in the \"Mahram Namah\". The Universe is eternal and moves by rotation. Divine countenance is imperishable and is manifest in Man, the best of forms — \"zuhur kibriya\". God is incarnated in every atom. Hurufis considered Fazlallah Astarabadi a manifestation of God's force after Adam, Moses and Muhammad. God is also embodied in words and the 28 letters of the Arabic alphabet and the 32 letters of Persian one are the basis for love and beauty in the world. Seven is a key number corresponding to noble parts of the face, the verses of \"Al-Fatiha\" and verbal confession of faith. Man is a supreme copy of the divine and the key to \"haqiqa\".\n\nAccording to R. N. Frye's \"The Cambridge History of Iran\", Hurufism was an expression of Isma'ilism in its mystical identification of human figure, but differed in its recognition of \"haqiqa\" in the substance of letters rather than in the person of the Imam.\n\nAfter his death Nāimī's ideas were developed and propagated by ‘Alī ‘Imādu d-Dīn Nasīmī and Ali-ul A'la in Azerbaijan and Seyid Ishag in Turkey. Poet Nasīmī (?–1417) and other Hurufis make kabbalistic tendencies subordinate to mystic concepts of Sufism, and specifically those of Mansur Al-Hallaj, who was another great influence on Nasīmī.\n\nThrough Nasīmī's poetry Hurufi ideas influenced, in different degrees, people like Niyaz-i Misri, Fuzuli, Habibi, Khatai (Ismail I), and Rushani. The Bektashi order that still is active in Anatolia and the Balkans was a repository for the Hurufi teachings and writings. One of Nasîmî's personal students, Rafî'î, emigrated into the Balkans. He transmitted a central thesis of Hurufism, that the cardinalities of the Arabic and Persian alphabet respectively enumerate all types of shape and sound, by axes of symmetry. A Hurufi rebellion in Kwarezem was suppressed by the Mongols, and that motivated the exodus of Hurufis to the Balkans. The Bektashi manuscripts show almost 500 years of Hurufism in the Balkans, with a peak in the 1700s. Other Sufi orders, such as the Qadiriyya and the Naqshbandi, contributed in the collection, retrieval, and translation of Hurufi manuscripts. From the Balkans, a great number of records were recorded in what is today Albania, but the relation between Bektashism and Hurufism is evidenced from Greek transcriptions. In total, many of the Hurufi manuscripts that are existent today were safeguarded in the libraries of Bektashi lodges. Hurufi terms and concepts permeate Bektashi poetry. Gül Baba provided an extensive compendium of Hurufi ideas in \"The Key to the Unseen\".\n\nThe Shattari \"tariqah\" is a contemporary repository of \"Hurf-e-Muqattiyat\" (secrets of the alphabets).\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1416043", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1416043", "title": "Institute for Ethics and Emerging Technologies", "text": "Institute for Ethics and Emerging Technologies\n\nThe Institute for Ethics and Emerging Technologies (IEET) is a \"technoprogressive think tank\" that seeks to contribute to understanding of the likely impact of emerging technologies on individuals and societies by \"promoting and publicizing the work of thinkers who examine the social implications of scientific and technological advance\". It was incorporated in the United States in 2004, as a non-profit 501(c)(3) organization, by philosopher Nick Bostrom and bioethicist James Hughes.\n\nThe institute aims to influence the development of public policies that distribute the benefits and reduce the risks of technological change. It has been described as \"[a]mong the more important groups\" in the transhumanist movement, and as being among the transhumanist groups that \"play a strong role in the academic arena\".\nThe IEET works with Humanity Plus (also founded and chaired by Bostrom and Hughes, and previously known as the World Transhumanist Association), an international non-governmental organization with a similar mission but with an activist rather than academic approach. A number of technoprogressive thinkers are offered honorary positions as IEET Fellows. Individuals who have accepted such appointments with the IEET support the institute's mission, but they have expressed a wide range of views about emerging technologies and not all identify themselves as transhumanists. In early Oct 2012, Kris Notaro became the Managing Director of the IEET.\n\nThe Institute publishes, the \"Journal of Evolution and Technology\" (JET), a peer-reviewed academic journal. JET was established in 1998 as the \"Journal of Transhumanism\" and obtained its current title in 2004. The editor-in-chief is Russell Blackford. It covers futurological research into long-term developments in science, technology, and philosophy that \"many mainstream journals shun as too speculative, radical, or interdisciplinary.\" The Institute also maintains a technology and ethics blog that is supported by various writers.\n\nIn 2006, the IEET launched the following activities:\n\nIn late May 2006, the IEET held the Human Enhancement Technologies and Human Rights conference at the Stanford University Law School in Stanford, California.\nThe IEET along with other progressive organizations hosted a conference in December 2013 at Yale University on giving various species \"personhood\" rights. Fellows of the Institute represent the Institute at various conferences and events, including the NASA Institute for Advanced Concepts and the American Association for the Advancement of Science.\n\nWesley J. Smith wrote that the Institute has one of the most active transhumanist websites, and the writers write on the \"nonsense of uploading minds into computers and fashioning a post humanity.\" Smith also criticized the results of the Institute's online poll that indicated the majority of Institute's readers are atheist or agnostic. According to Smith, this was evidence that transhumanism is a religion and a desperate attempt to find purpose in a nihilistic and materialistic world. The Institute's advocacy project to raise the status of animals to the legal status of personhood also drew criticism from Smith because he claimed humans are exceptional and raising the status of animals may lower the status of humans.\n\nKatarina Felsted and Scott D. Wright wrote that although the IEET considers itself technoprogressive some of its views can be described as strong transhumanism or a \"radical version of post ageing,\" and one particular criticism of both moderate and strong transhumanism is that moral arbitrariness undermine both forms of transhumanism.\n\n"}
{"id": "38359051", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38359051", "title": "Jacqueline Lichtenstein", "text": "Jacqueline Lichtenstein\n\nJacqueline Lichtenstein (1947) is a French philosopher, art historian, and professor of aesthetics and the philosophy of art at the University of Paris IV - Paris-Sorbonne.\n\nHer work focuses on 17th- and 18th-century art, and the ways in which people think, talk, and theorize about art. Another theme of her work is the shift, since the 17th century, in how people think about the amateur.\n\nLichtenstein has taught at the University of California at Berkeley, the University of Paris X-Nanterre, and at the University of Paris IV - Paris-Sorbonne, among other places. She has published numerous articles in French and American journals.\n\nShe is the joint director of a philosophy and sociology training and research unit at University Paris IV-Sorbonne, where she coordinates a master’s program in aesthetics and philosophy of art. She is also in charge of the series \"Essays on art and philosophy\" (Aesthetics and philosophy of art), founded by Henri Gouhier in 1949 and published by Editions Vrin.\n\nA central theme of Lichtenstein's work is the reception of color by various disciplines, such as philosophy, art, sociology, and ethics. A focal point for her analysis is the antagonistic relationship between color and the notion of the design or plan of a work (in 17th-century French, the \"dessein\" of the work, etymologically related to \"dessin\", drawing).\n\nPhilosophically suspect due to its material character, morally culpable because of its seductive luster, color, in Lichtenstein's view, has long been deemed aesthetically dangerous, the source of a pleasure and a beauty that does not, at first blush, seem connected with the True and the Good. This is, she argues, one aspect of an ongoing conflict between reason and the universe of sensible forms. Painting not being reducible to drawing, it is a source of disunity and disorder in our systems of knowledge, one which elicits an experience of \"lack\" (\"insuffisance\").\n\nThe history of this conflict, she argues, begins in Platonic thought, which condemns color and rhetoric equally. The arts of speech and those of imagery are thus definitively linked. A central later figure is Roger de Piles, the leader of the Rubenists, the partisans of color (\"coloris\"). The Rubenists broke with the Platonic tradition and defended illusion, makeup, and seduction. They shifted, Lichtenstein maintains, the focus to those feminine aspects of representation, that is the suspected and cursed elements. They made these the essence of painting.\n\nFrom that point onward, painting was linked with the linguistically inexpressible. Only the gaze may be spoken of, not the picture itself. This, argues Lichtenstein, was the birth of aesthetics, in the sense that the word was to take on in the 17th century.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2149254", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2149254", "title": "Jean-Yves Lacoste", "text": "Jean-Yves Lacoste\n\nJean-Yves Lacoste is a French philosopher. Lacoste is associated with what Dominique Janicaud called the \"theological turn in phenomenology\", along with other influential French phenomenologists like Michel Henry, Jean-Luc Marion and Jean-Louis Chrétien. Lacoste's work straddles philosophy and theology, and displays an interest in what might be called postmodern themes. He works in Paris and Cambridge and has a life membership at Clare Hall, Cambridge. \n\nLacoste's influential 1994 book \"Experience and the Absolute\" argues against the modern prizing of \"religious experience\" and defends the view that God is knowable as lovable but does not give himself by way of experience or feeling.\n\nIn 2010, Lacoste delivered the James W. Richards lectures at the University of Virginia while he was a Visiting Professor of Religious Studies. His paper, \"From Theology to Theological Thinking\", called for erasing rigid distinctions between philosophical and theological disciplines.\n\n"}
{"id": "2078853", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2078853", "title": "Jean Nicod", "text": "Jean Nicod\n\nJean George Pierre Nicod (1893, France – 16 February 1924, Geneva, Switzerland) was a French philosopher, mathematician and logician.\n\nIn his best known work, he showed that the classical propositional calculus could be derived from one axiom and one rule, both expressed using the Sheffer stroke. He also proposed the Nicod's axiom and developed Nicod's criterion.\n\nNicod died at the age of 31 from tuberculosis.\n\nSee also Carl Hempel's raven paradox.\n\nThe Institut Jean Nicod (Paris) — a branch of the French \"Centre National de la Recherche Scientifique\" (CNRS) -- is research laboratory at the interface between cognitive science and the social sciences — was named in honour of Nicod's memory. Jean Nicod's name is also commemorated by the prestigious Jean Nicod Lectures, delivered annually in Paris by a leading philosopher of mind or philosophically oriented cognitive scientist, and published as a series by the MIT Press. The lecturer is awarded the Jean Nicod Prize by the CNRS.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3217574", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3217574", "title": "John Broome (philosopher)", "text": "John Broome (philosopher)\n\nJohn Broome (born 1947) is a British philosopher and economist. He was the White's Professor of Moral Philosophy at the University of Oxford and a Fellow of Corpus Christi College, Oxford.\n\nBroome was educated at the University of Cambridge, at the University of London and at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, where he received a PhD in economics. Before arriving at Oxford he was Professor of Philosophy at the University of St. Andrews and, prior to that, Professor of Economics and Philosophy at the University of Bristol. He has held visiting posts at the University of Virginia, the Australian National University, Princeton University, the University of Washington, the University of British Columbia, the Swedish Collegium for Advanced Study in the Social Sciences, and the University of Canterbury. In 2007 Broome was elected a Foreign Member of the Royal Swedish Academy of Sciences.\n\nHis book \"Weighing Goods\" (1991) explores the way in which goods \"located\" in each of the three \"dimensions\" — time, people, states of nature—make up overall goodness. Broome argues that these dimensions are linked by what he calls the \"interpersonal addition theorem\", which supports the utilitarian principle of distribution. In his book \"Weighing Lives\" (2004), Broome rejects the presumed intuition that adding people to the population is ethically neutral. In his collection of papers, titled \"Ethics out of Economics\" (1999), he discusses topics such as value, equality, fairness, and utility.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "7365265", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7365265", "title": "John Henry Morgan", "text": "John Henry Morgan\n\nJohn Henry Morgan is the Karl Mannheim Professor of the History and Philosophy of Social Sciences at the Graduate Theological Foundation, where he also served as president until 2013. A prolific author, his academic work has explored the intersection of theology, philosophy, psychology and culture.\n\nMorgan was born in Mt. Pleasant, Texas, on February 9, 1945, to B.A. Morgan Sr. and Kate Evelyn Morgan. He grew up in Texas but received his undergraduate education in New England.\n\nMorgan earned his bachelor's degree from Berkshire College in 1968, and his master's from Hartford Seminary in 1970. He was also awarded a Ph.D. from Hartford Seminary in 1972, a Doctor of Science degree from the London College of Applied Science in 1986 and a Doctor of Psychology degree from Foundation House, Oxford, in 2000.\n\nMorgan was a Postdoctoral Research Fellow at Yale University from 1972 to 1974, and a Postdoctoral Resident Fellow at Princeton Theological Seminary from 1977-1978. He was a National Science Foundation Science Faculty Fellow at the University of Notre Dame from 1979-1980.\n\nHe has been a Postdoctoral Visiting Fellow at Harvard University three times—1998; 2011; and 2015.\n\nHe also was a Postdoctoral Research Scholar the University of Chicago from 1985-1986.\n\nMorgan is a Senior Fellow of Foundation House/Oxford and is a member of the Advisory Board for the Centre for the Study of Religion in Public Life at Oxford University. He currently serves as a Senior Fellow at All Saints Cathedral College in Alberta, Canada.\n\nFrom 1998 to 2011, he taught at the Oxford Theology Summer School, part of the Oxford University Department for Continuing Education, where he was appointed to the program’s Board of Studies in 1995. He has also been Visiting Scholar at Harvard University in 1998, 2011, and 2015.\n\nThe Graduate Theological Foundation was founded in 1962 in the wake of the Second Vatican Council. The Conference on Religious Development was commissioned to foster growing ecumenical relationships between Catholic and Protestant communions. The foundation emerged from a variety of residential programs held by the Conference in Madison, Connecticut.\n\nInitially formed as a traditional continuing education center for practicing clergy, the foundation gradually evolved into a self-directed education model where most of the students and faculty reside around the globe. Faculty come from a broad spectrum of faith backgrounds, and many also serve on the faculty of established colleges and universities, including the University of Oxford, with which the Foundation has a continuing education affiliation through the Oxford Theology Summer School.\n\nMorgan served as president of the foundation from 1982 to 2013.\n\nMorgan is the author of more than 30 books and numerous scholarly articles. His religious affiliation is Quaker, and he has written extensively about the Quaker experience in America. His writing has appeared in a wide range of periodicals, including \"Contemporary Islamic Studies\", the \"Journal of Religion & Society\" and \"Psychological Thought\". His latest book is entitled CLINICAL PSYCHOTHERAPY: A History of Theory and Practice (from Sigmund Freud to Aaron Beck).\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4001502", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4001502", "title": "Justice as Fairness: A Restatement", "text": "Justice as Fairness: A Restatement\n\nJustice as Fairness: A Restatement is a 2001 work of political philosophy by John Rawls, a revision of his 1971 classic \"A Theory of Justice\" (1971).\n\nThis shorter summary of the main arguments of Rawls' political philosophy was edited by Erin Kelly. Prior to publication, many versions were circulated in typescript and much of the material was delivered by Rawls in lectures when he taught courses covering his own work at Harvard University.\n\n\"Justice as Fairness\" is a revision of Rawls's \"A Theory of Justice\" (1971). Rawls is responding to criticism as well as adding further thought to his earlier \"A Theory of Justice\". It was written shortly before his death in 2002. In part I, he discusses several fundamental ideas, all of which are familiar to a reader of his earlier book as well as \"Political Liberalism\" (1995): a well-ordered society; the basic structure of society; the original position; free and equal persons; public justification; reflective equilibrium; and overlapping consensus. In part II, he moves on to his principles of justice, revising them from his earlier edition, which now read (p. 42):\n\n(a) Each person has the same indefeasible claim to a fully adequate scheme of equal basic liberties, which scheme is compatible with the same scheme of liberties for all; and\n\n(b) Social and economic inequalities are to satisfy two conditions: first, they are to be attached to offices and positions open to all under conditions of fair equality of opportunity; and second, they are to be to the greatest benefit of the least-advantaged members of society (the difference principle).\nIn part III, Rawls expands on his argument for the two principles of the \"Original position\". Here he brings in a new concept, that of \"Public reason\", an idea that is not well discussed in \"Theory of Justice\". \nPart IV takes the reader to public institutions that will be present in a just and fair society. He lists five types of social systems: \n\nRawls holds that the first three \"[violate] the two principles of justice in at least one way\" (p. 137), thus leaving only (4) property-owning democracy and (5) liberal socialism as the \"ideal descriptions\" that include \"arrangements designed to satisfy the two principles of justice\" (p. 138). \nIn part V he explains why political liberalism is not only possible, but why it is not utopian thinking to believe that such a society is possible.\n\nLooking primarily at the twentieth century United States, he is certain that institutions within US society are causing injustices. The very expensive campaign system essentially rules out all but the very rich from even deciding to run for public office. The expense of healthcare restricts the best care to those who can afford it, leaving the poor to only the most basic of services.\n\n"}
{"id": "9000925", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9000925", "title": "Karel Kosík", "text": "Karel Kosík\n\nKarel Kosík (26 June 1926 – 21 February 2003) was a Czech Neomarxist philosopher. In his most famous philosophical work, \"Dialectics of the Concrete\" (1963), Kosík presents an original synthesis of Martin Heidegger's version of phenomenology and the ideas of Karl Marx. His later essays can be called a sharp critique of the modern society from a leftist position.\n\nKarel Kosík was born on 26 June 1926 in Prague.\n\nFrom 1 September 1943 until his arrest by the Gestapo on 17 November 1944, he was a member of an illegal anti-nazi communist resistance group \"Předvoj\" (The Vanguard) and a chief editor of an illegal journal \"Boj mladých\" (The Fight of Youth). After his seizure Kosík was accused of high treason and repeatedly questioned. From 30 January to 5 May 1945 he was imprisoned in Theresienstadt concentration camp.\n\nFrom 1945 to 1947, Kosík studied philosophy and sociology at the Charles University in Prague. In the years 1947–1949, he also attended courses at the Leningrad University and the Moscow State University in the USSR. He graduated in 1950 in Prague at the Charles University. In this part of his life he met his future wife Růžena Grebeníčková (later laureate of Herder Prize), from this marriage came three children (Antonín Kosík, Irena Kosíková and Štěpán Kosík). In 1963, he published his \"magnum opus\", \"Dialectics of the Concrete\", a re-working of Marxian categories in terms of humanist phenomenology, which earned him an international reputation as a leading philosopher of humanist Marxism. During the \"Prague Spring\" of 1968, Kosík became a leading voice for democratic socialism (a distinction he shared with Ivan Sviták, Czechoslovakia's other prominent Marxist humanist). This political engagement led to Kosík's dismissal from university work in 1970, after the period of democratization had ended. He remained unemployed until 1990, when he returned to public intellectual life as one of Central Europe's few prominent leftist social critics.\n\nSpanish-Mexican Marxist Adolfo Sánchez Vázquez wrote in the prologue for the Mexican edition that he considered \"Dialectics of the Concrete\" to be \"one of the richest in thinking, [one of the] most charming and attractive works as we know it in Marxist literature\". French-Brazilian Marxist Michael Löwy and Argentine historian Horacio Tarcus wrote for \"Le Monde\":\n\nThe Institute of Philosophy of the Czech Academy of Sciences (CAS) held a conference on Kosík's \"œuvre\" between 4 and 6 June 2014 in Prague. Organized by Ivan Landa, Jan Mervart, and Joseph Grim Feinberg, it had people from around the world discussing the impact of Kosík's thought on \"issues that are still relevant today\". Landa and Mervat are working on a \"critical edition\" of \"everything Kosík had ever published or written for print during his lifetime\", includinga books, essays and short notes. To be published in Czech, it is planned to have seven volumes, out of which three are complete as of September 2016: one of essays on political activities and on the Czech radical democrats of 1848; a volume of essays on culture and politics from the period of 1956–1967; and a re-edition of \"Dialectics of the Concrete\" and philosophical essays the same time period. Also, with funding from the CAS Landa and Mervat are translating texts to published \"a comprehensive English volume\" on Kosík'.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "33633726", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33633726", "title": "Khatm ul Awliya", "text": "Khatm ul Awliya\n\nThe Seal of the Saints or \"Khatam ul Awliya\" is a central concept in the writings of 12th-century Islamic thinker and spiritual leader Ibn Arabi.\n\nIbn Arabi (1165-1240), in his \"Meccan Revelation\" (\"Futuhati Maqiyya\"), explains that all the prophets and saints derive their light from the spirit of Muhammad, the prophet of Islam.\n\nIn Ibn Arabi's thinking, the prophets and saints are manifestations of the spirit of Muhammad, which is the start and end point of the whole spiritual hierarchy. The first manifestation of the spirit of Muhammad was the first man, Adam. The last and most perfect was Muhammad himself.\n\nIn the mystical branch of Islam, Sufism, there are two main lines of spiritual transmission:\n\n\nIbn Arabi, in his book \"The Astonishing Phoenix – on the Seal of the Saints and the Sun of the West\", explains that the name of the Seal of Saints is Abdullah, who is a despised ajami. Ibn Arabi describes the Seal of Saints in detail, using notably difficult symbolic language.\n\nSimilarly, Sharafuddin ad Dagistani, Moulana Sheikh Nazim and Adnan Kabbani explain that the Seal of Saints of the Siddiqi or Naqshbandi Tariqa is Abdullah Faiz Dagistani.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "36444561", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36444561", "title": "List of Finnish philosophers", "text": "List of Finnish philosophers\n\nThis is a list of notable Finnish philosophers:\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "7269113", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7269113", "title": "Mark Cherry", "text": "Mark Cherry\n\nMark J. Cherry is the Dr. Patricia A. Hayes Professor in Applied Ethics at St. Edward's University, Austin, Texas. He is the author of \"Kidney for Sale by Owner: Human Organs, Transplantation, and the Market\" (2005), in which he argues that human body parts are commodities, and that the market is the most efficient and morally justified way to procure and allocate organs for transplant. His argument is based in part on what he calls the moral authority of persons over themselves.\nCherry is the editor of the \"Journal of Medicine and Philosophy\", \"Christian Bioethics\", editor-in-chief of the Health- Care Ethics Committee Forum, and series co-editor of the \"Annals of Bioethics\".\n"}
{"id": "1584086", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1584086", "title": "Martha Klein", "text": "Martha Klein\n\nMartha Klein is a philosopher, specialising in the intersection of the philosophy of mind and moral philosophy, and especially in the question of the freedom of the will.\n\nAfter a period as lecturer in Philosophy at Christ Church, Oxford, Klein was elected a Fellow of Pembroke College, Oxford; she retired in 2006. Her research interests are in free will, moral responsibility, and moral psychology.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "35608241", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35608241", "title": "Michael Ivanovich Karinski", "text": "Michael Ivanovich Karinski\n\nMichael Ivanovich Karinski (1840–1917) was a Russian philosopher. His \"Classification of Inferences\" (1880) has been called \"the most important single work in logical theory that nineteenth-century Russia produced.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "1017788", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1017788", "title": "Myth of Er", "text": "Myth of Er\n\nThe Myth of Er is a legend that concludes Plato's \"Republic\" (10.614–10.621). The story includes an account of the cosmos and the afterlife that greatly influenced religious, philosophical, and scientific thought for many centuries.\n\nThe story begins as a man named Er (; , \"gen\".: Ἠρός; not to be confused with Eros (; )); son of Ἀρμένιος, \"Armenios\" of Pamphylia dies in battle. When the bodies of those who died in the battle are collected, ten days after his death, Er remains undecomposed. Two days later he revives on his funeral-pyre and tells others of his journey in the afterlife, including an account of reincarnation and the celestial spheres of the astral plane. The tale includes the idea that moral people are rewarded and immoral people punished after death.\n\nAlthough called the Myth of Er, the word \"myth\" means \"word, speech, account\", rather than the modern meaning. The word is used at the end when Socrates explains that because Er did not drink the waters of Lethe, the account (\"mythos\" in Greek) was preserved for us.\n\nWith many other souls as his companions, Er had come across an awe-inspiring place with four openings – two into and out of the sky and two into and out of the ground. Judges sat between these openings and ordered the souls which path to follow: the good were guided into the path into the sky, the immoral were directed below. But when Er approached the judges, he was told to remain, listening and observing in order to report his experience to humankind.\n\nMeanwhile from the other opening in the sky, clean souls floated down, recounting beautiful sights and wondrous feelings. Those returning from underground appeared dirty, haggard, and tired, crying in despair when recounting their awful experiences, as each was required to pay a tenfold penalty for all the wicked deeds committed when alive. There were some, however, who could not be released from underground. Murderers, tyrants and other non-political criminals were doomed to remain by the exit of the underground, unable to escape.\n\nAfter seven days in the meadow, the souls and Er were required to travel farther. After four days they reached a place where they could see a shaft of rainbow light brighter than any they had seen before. After another day's travel they reached it. This was the Spindle of Necessity. Several women, including Lady Necessity, her daughters, and the Sirens were present. The souls – except for Er – were then organized into rows and were each given a lottery token.\n\nThen, in the order in which their lottery tokens were chosen, each soul was required to come forward to choose his or her next life. Er recalled the first one to choose a new life: a man who had not known the terrors of the underground but had been rewarded in the sky, hastily chose a powerful dictatorship. Upon further inspection he realized that, among other atrocities, he was destined to eat his own children. Er observed that this was often the case of those who had been through the path in the sky, whereas those who had been punished often chose a better life. Many preferred a life different from their previous experience. Animals chose human lives while humans often chose the apparently easier lives of animals.\n\nAfter this, each soul was assigned a guardian spirit to help him or her through their life. They passed under the throne of Lady Necessity, then traveled to the Plane of Oblivion, where the River of Forgetfulness (River Lethe) flowed. Each soul was required to drink some of the water, in varying quantities; again, Er only watched. As they drank, each soul forgot everything. As they lay down at night to sleep each soul was lifted up into the night in various directions for rebirth, completing their journey. Er remembered nothing of the journey back to his body. He opened his eyes to find himself lying on the funeral pyre early in the morning, able to recall his journey through the afterlife.\n\nIn the dialogue Plato introduces the story by explaining to his questioner, Glaucon, that the soul must be immortal, and cannot be destroyed. Plato tells Glaucon the \"Myth of Er\" to explain that the choices we make and the character we develop will have consequences after death. In Book II of the \"Republic\", Socrates points out that even the gods can be tricked by a clever charlatan who appears just while unjust in his psyche, in that they would welcome the pious but false \"man of the people\" and would reject and punish the truly just but falsely accused man. Thus in the \"Myth of Er\", when the gods send all men to choose another life, the true characters of the falsely-pious and those whose are immodest in some way are revealed when they choose the lives of tyrants. Those who lived happy but middling lives in their previous life are most likely to choose the same for their future life, not necessarily because they are wise, but out of habit. Those who were treated with infinite injustice, despairing of the possibility of a good human life, choose the souls of animals for their future incarnation. It is through the careful cultivation of attention to the types of lives that emerge from a combination of experience, character, and fate—through the practice of philosophy, in other words—that men knowingly make good choices when confronted with the possibility of a new life. No matter how life treats one or how successful or famous or powerful one becomes, one way or the other, or even, as in the Myth, how many temporary heavenly rewards or hellish punishments one experiences, these virtues will always work to one's advantage.\n\nThe myth mentions \"The Spindle of Necessity\", in that the cosmos is represented by the Spindle attended by sirens and the three daughters of the Goddess Necessity known collectively as The Fates, whose duty is to keep the rims of the spindle revolving. The Fates, Sirens, and Spindle are used in \"The Republic\", partly to help explain how known celestial bodies revolved around the Earth according to Plato's cosmology.\n\nThe \"Spindle of Necessity\", according to Plato, is \"shaped . . . like the ones we know\"—the standard Greek spindle, consisting of a hook, shaft, and whorl. The hook was fixed near the top of the shaft on its long side. On the other end resided the whorl. The hook was used to spin the shaft, which in turn spun the whorl on the other end. \n\nPlaced on the whorl of his celestial spindle were 8 \"orbits\", whereof each created a perfect circle. Each \"orbit\" is given different descriptions by Plato.\n\nBased on Plato's descriptions within the passage, the orbits can be identified as those of the classical planets, corresponding to the Aristotelian planetary spheres:\n\n\nThe descriptions of the rims accurately fit the relative distance and revolution speed of the respective bodies as would appear to an observer from Earth (aside from the Moon, which revolves around the Earth slightly more slowly than the sun).\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1898092", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1898092", "title": "Nuclear-free zone", "text": "Nuclear-free zone\n\nA nuclear-free zone is an area in which nuclear weapons (see nuclear-weapon-free zone) and nuclear power plants are banned. The specific ramifications of these depend on the locale in question.\n\nNuclear-free zones usually neither address nor prohibit radiopharmaceuticals used in nuclear medicine even though many of them are produced in nuclear reactors. They typically do not prohibit other nuclear technologies such as cyclotrons used in particle physics.\n\nSeveral sub-national authorities worldwide have declared themselves \"nuclear-free\". However, the label is often symbolic, as nuclear policy is usually determined and regulated at higher levels of government: nuclear weapons and components may traverse nuclear-free zones via military transport without the knowledge or consent of local authorities which had declared nuclear-free zones.\n\nPalau became the first nuclear-free nation in 1980. New Zealand was the first Western-allied nation to legislate towards a national nuclear free zone by effectively renouncing the nuclear deterrent.\n\nMany Australian local government areas of Australia have passed anti-nuclear weaponry legislation; notable among these are Brisbane, capital of Queensland, which has been nuclear weapon free since 1983, and the South and North Sydney councils. However the passage of such legislation is generally considered just a symbolic measure. The majority of councils which have passed anti-nuclear weaponry legislation are members of the Australian Nuclear Free Zones and Toxic Industries Secretariat which has 44 member councils.\n\nAustria is a nuclear free zone, when a nuclear power station was built during the 1970s at Zwentendorf, Austria, start-up was prevented by a popular vote in 1978. The completed power plant is now marketed as a shooting location for film and television. On July 9, 1997, the Austrian Parliament voted unanimously to maintain the country's anti-nuclear policy.\n\nIronically, the headquarters of the International Atomic Energy Agency is located in Vienna, and the IAEA maintains nuclear laboratories both in Vienna and Seibersdorf. The IAEA has also established programs to assist nuclear energy projects in developing countries.\n\nAustria's anti-nuclear stance also causes tension with its nuclear neighbors. Vienna is located close to the Czech reactor at Temelin, and four reactors are being built in neighboring Slovakia and two in neighboring Hungary. Austria also draws from regional electricity grids, meaning it imports nuclear power, although chancellor Werner Faymann has pledged to eliminate Austria's reliance on foreign power by 2015.\n\nVancouver is a nuclear weapons free city. Victoria, British Columbia is also a nuclear weapons free city. This has caused problems as nearby Esquimalt houses CFB Esquimalt, Canada's Pacific naval base, which is used frequently by the United States Navy. The USN routinely sends ships or aircraft carriers loaded with nuclear weapons to Esquimalt. As a result, the ships are forced to dock out of the city limits as not to violate the city by-laws.The policy does not limit operations at TRIUMF, Canada's national laboratory for nuclear and particle physics at the University of British Columbia, Vancouver. The province of British Columbia also bans mining for uranium, and the construction of nuclear power plants within its territorial limits.\n\nNanaimo, British Columbia, Kitimat, British Columbia; Red Deer, Alberta, and Regina, Saskatchewan are also nuclear weapons-free cities.\n\nAll states of Central Asia have signed the Treaty on the Non-Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons and signed the Central Asian Nuclear Weapon Free Zone treaty. Thus, there are no technologies to create a weapon or enrich the particles, but in Tajikistan, during the Soviet Union, such initiatives were brought to life, but with the collapse of the Soviet Union, the facilities were dismantled and moved to the Russian Federation. The Treaty came into force on 21 March 2009.\n\nAfter Estonia seceded from the Soviet Union in the early 1990s, Estonia became a nuclear-free country. \nThe two land-based nuclear reactors at the Soviet Navy nuclear submarine training centre in Paldiski were removed when Russia finally relinquished control of the nuclear reactor facilities in September 1995.\nThere are no nuclear power stations in Estonia.\n\nAs a resource-poor nation, Japan is heavily reliant on nuclear power, but its unique experience in World War II has led to the wholesale rejection of nuclear weapons, holding nuclear weapons shall not be manufactured in, possessed by, or allowed entry into Japan. These tenets, known as the Three Non-Nuclear Principles, were first stated by Prime Minister Eisaku Satō in 1967, and were adopted as a parliamentary resolution in 1971, though they have never formally been entered into law. They continue to reflect the attitudes of both government and the general public, who remain staunchly opposed to the manufacture or use of nuclear weapons.\n\nThe Japan Self-Defense Forces have never made any attempt to manufacture or otherwise obtain nuclear arms, and no nuclear weapons are known to have been introduced into the Japanese Home Islands since the end of World War II. While the United States does not maintain nuclear bases within its military installations on the Home Islands, it is believed to have once stored weapons at Okinawa, which remained under US administrative jurisdiction until 1972.\n\nItaly is a nuclear free zone since the Italian nuclear power referendum of November 1987. Following center-right parties' victory in the 2008 election, Italy's industry minister announced that the government scheduled the construction to start the first new Italian nuclear-powered plant by 2013. The announced project was paused in March 2011, after the Japanese earthquake, and scrapped after a referendum on 12–13 June 2011.\n\nIn 1984, Prime Minister David Lange barred nuclear-powered or nuclear-armed ships from using New Zealand ports or entering New Zealand waters. Under the New Zealand Nuclear Free Zone, Disarmament, and Arms Control Act 1987, territorial sea and land of New Zealand became nuclear weapons and nuclear-powered ship free zones. It does not ban nuclear power stations. A research reactor was operated by the University of Canterbury until 1981. Official planning for a nuclear power station continued until the 1980s. A nuclear reactor provided electricity for McMurdo Station, in the New Zealand Antarctic Territory from 1962–1972.\n\nThe Act prohibits \"entry into the internal waters of New Zealand 12 miles (22.2 km) radius by any ship whose propulsion is wholly or partly dependent on nuclear power\" and bans the dumping of radioactive waste within the nuclear-free zone, as well as prohibiting any New Zealand citizen or resident \"to manufacture, acquire, possess, or have any control over any nuclear explosive device.\" Combined with the firm policy of the United States to \"neither confirm nor deny\" whether particular naval vessels carry nuclear weapons, the Act effectively bars these ships from entering New Zealand waters.\n\nNew Zealand's security treaty with the United States, ANZUS, did not mention nuclear deterrence and did not require unconditional port access. However, after New Zealand refused entry to USS \"Buchanan\", the United States government suspended its ANZUS obligations to New Zealand, seeing New Zealand's effective rejection of United States Navy vessels as voiding the treaty. The Lange Labour government did not see their stance as incompatible with the treaty and sought a compromise for over two years before passing the Act. Support for the non-nuclear policy was bolstered by the perceived over-reaction of the United States and by the sinking of the Rainbow Warrior by French spies while docked in Auckland. According to some commentators, the legislation was a milestone in New Zealand's development as a nation and seen as an important act of sovereignty, self-determination and cultural identity. New Zealand’s three decade anti-nuclear campaign is the only successful movement of its type in the world which resulted in the nation's nuclear-free zone status being enshrined in legislation.\n\nThe nuclear-free zone law does not make building land-based nuclear power plants illegal. However, the relatively small electricity system, abundance of other resources to generate electricity, and public opposition has meant a nuclear power plant has never gone beyond the investigation phase – a nuclear power plant was proposed north of Auckland in the early 1970s, but the discovery of large natural gas reserves in Taranaki saw the proposal shelved.\n\nNuclear weapons-free Nordic (\"Finn. Ydinaseeton Pohjola\") was an initiative by the President of Finland Urho Kekkonen for a nuclear weapons-free zone in the Nordic countries. The aim was to prevent the Nordic countries from becoming a nuclear battleground and a route for cruise missiles in the event of a nuclear war between the Soviet Union and NATO.\n\nNuclear energy, however, is used in both Finland and Sweden.\n\nPalau adopted its first constitution in July 1979, stating that the Micronesian country would be \"nuclear-free\". The United States told the Palauan government that this constitution was likely incompatible with the Compact of Free Association. The Palauan government submitted a revised version of the constitution without the \"nuclear-free\" clause the following October. The Palauan people rejected the revised document and instated the original constitution in July 1980. Seven years later, however, the Palauan people voted to overturn their nuclear-free status out of \"economic survival\".\n\nThe Nuclear Free Zone Movement in the United Kingdom was very strong in early 1980s; up to two hundred local authorities including county councils, district councils and city councils such as the Greater London Council (GLC) (before its abolition) declared themselves to be 'nuclear free'. The first 'nuclear-free zone' in the UK was Manchester City Council in 1980 – this still exists to this day. Wales became 'nuclear free' on 23 February 1982 after Clwyd County Council declared itself 'nuclear free' and the Nuclear Free Wales Declaration was made. This policy was legally underpinned by Section 137 of the Local Government Act, which allowed local authorities to spend a small amount on whatever members considered was in the interest of their area or a part of their area.\n\nUK nuclear-free local authorities refused to take part in civil defence exercises relating to nuclear war, which they thought were futile. The non-cooperation of the nuclear-free zone authorities was the main reason for the cancellation of the national 'Hard Rock' civil defence exercise in July 1982. In England and Wales 24 of the 54 county councils refused to participate and seven more co-operated only in a half-hearted way. This has been seen as a victory for the British Peace movement against the policies of Margaret Thatcher. Generally, nuclear-free zones were predominantly Labour Party controlled councils but Liberal Party and even a few Conservative Party councillors were often active in this respect too.\n\nA number of towns, cities and counties in the United States established themselves as Nuclear-Free Zones in the 1970s, 1980s and 1990s. The first was Missoula, Montana. In the November 1978 general election, Missoula voters overwhelmingly approved a ballot initiative in the form of a land-use ordinance establishing the entirety of Missoula County as a \"'nuclear free' zoning district\" banning all nuclear facilities except those for medical purposes. (In the same election, Montana voters approved a statewide initiative by a 2–1 margin barring nuclear facilities or reactors without strict state-enforced regulatory standards and ratification by popular referendum, and in a follow-up 1980 initiative, Montanans narrowly voted to ban the disposal of nuclear waste.) That Missoula's measure was originally drafted as a zoning ordinance legally enforceable by the county planning department apparently created the popular term \"Nuclear Free Zone\" adopted as the name of the local political action group sponsoring the initiative and later used by other jurisdictions worldwide.\n\nSubsequently, the tiny town of Garrett Park, Maryland, attracted worldwide attention with its referendum in May, 1982. The following year, Takoma Park, Maryland, was officially declared a nuclear-free zone in 1983 by then-mayor Sam Abbott. A citizen committee of the local city council continues to monitor city contracts. The city cannot hold contracts with any company associated with any aspect of nuclear weapons without a waiver from the citizen committee. In September 2005, Takoma Park took a stand against the transportation of high-level nuclear waste through the City. It voted to amend its Nuclear-Free Zone Ordinance to give its citizen committee responsibility to collect information and from this information and from consultations with individuals and organizations involved in the transportation of high-level nuclear waste, to advise the City on how to promote the safety and welfare of its citizens from harmful exposure to high-level nuclear waste.\n\nAnother well-known nuclear-free community is Berkeley, California, whose citizens passed the Nuclear Free Berkeley Act in 1986 which allows the city to levy fines for nuclear weapons-related activity and to boycott companies involved in the United States nuclear infrastructure. The City of Berkeley has posted signs at city limits proclaiming its nuclear free status. The ordinance specifies possible fines for such activities within its borders. The University of California, Berkeley is deeply involved in the history of nuclear weapons, and the University of California system until recently managed operations at Los Alamos National Laboratory, a U.S. nuclear weapons design laboratory, and continues to manage the Lawrence Livermore National Laboratory. At the time of the passage of the act, the University operated a nuclear reactor for research purposes, the Etcheverry Reactor, which it continued to operate after the act went into effect. The University of California, as a state institution, is not subject to Berkeley's municipal regulations, including the ban. Berkeley also has major freeway and train lines which are used in transporting nuclear materials.\n\nOn November 14, 1984 the Davis, California City Council declared the city to be a nuclear-free zone. Davis has major freeway and train arteries running through it which are used for transporting nuclear materials. The University of California, with a campus at Davis, runs a research reactor at the nearby former McClellan Air Force Base, as well as workers who are involved with Lawrence Livermore National Laboratory.\n\nOn November 8, 1988 the city of Oakland, California passed \"Measure T\" with 57% of the vote, making that city a nuclear free zone. Under Ordinance No. 11062 CMS then passed on December 6, 1988, the city is restricted from doing business with \"any entity knowingly engaged in nuclear weapons work and any of its agents, subsidiaries or affiliates which are engaged in nuclear weapons work.\" The measure was invalidated in federal court, on the grounds that it interfered with the Federal Government's constitutional authority over national defense and atomic energy. The issue being Oakland is a major port, and like Berkeley, and Davis, has major freeway and train arteries running through it. In 1992, the Oakland City Council unanimously reinstated modified elements of the older ordinance, reportedly bringing the total number of Nuclear Free Zones in the United States at that time to 188, with a total population of over 17 million in 27 states.\n\nOther cities, counties, and other governments within the United States passing nuclear free zone ordinances and the date of adoption, when known:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "51252963", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51252963", "title": "Philippe Mottu", "text": "Philippe Mottu\n\nPhilippe Mottu is a Swiss diplomat, author and activist born on 9 October 1913 in Geneva; he died in Lonay (Vaud) on 23 August 2010. In 1946, inspired by the American Frank Buchman, he was instrumental in the acquisition of the former Caux Palace Hotel, a dilapidated hotel above Montreux, Switzerland, by a group of about 100 Swiss, in order to create an international conference centre at the service of European reconciliation and reconstruction. He wrote a dozen of books of political and social philosophy.\n\nThe scion of an old Geneva family whose ancestor Jacques Mottu had moved to Geneva towards 1597, Philippe Mottu is the son of the pastor Henri Mottu, moderator of the « vénérable Compagnie des Pasteurs de Genève », and of Marthe Mottu, née Reverdin.\nA graduate of the Political Science school of the Geneva University, he started his professional life in a bank. In 1933 he underwent a deep spiritual experience which led him to undertake theology studies in Lausanne. There, his Latin professor, Jules Rochat, put him in touch with the Oxford Group, soon to become Moral Rearmament (and currently Initiatives of Change). He was immediately won by the ideas and practice of the Oxford Group.\n\nIn 1935, Philippe Mottu meets for the first time Frank Buchman, the Oxford Group's founder who visits Geneva with a team in order to talk to League of Nations delegates. It is the beginning of a lifelong friendship, with its ups and downs, through which the two men will exchange abundant correspondence.\n\nIn 1938, as European nations re-armed for war, Buchman called for 'moral and spiritual re-armament' as the way to build a 'hate-free, fear-free, greed-free world'. Enthusiastic, Philippe Mottu became one of the main activists of Moral Reamament (MRA) in Switzerland. In this capacity he participated in numerous MRA actions at home and abroad, particularly the massive meeting of Palais Baulieu in Lausanne in 1937 (10’000 participants) or the international meeting of Interlaken in 1938.\n\nIn 1939 Philippe Mottu was called into active service and joined the \"Army and Home\" section at the Swiss Army's headquarters, probably at General Guisan's request as the general partly relied on MRA to build up Swiss morale and resistance spirit.\nWith Denis de Rougemont and Theophil Spoerri, he took an active part in the setting up of the Gotthard League, a civil society movement dedicated to countering \"defeatism and deceptive propaganda\" in the face of intense Nazi propaganda which Switzerland was subject to at the time. \"We wanted to proclaim that our country would remain faithful to his multi-secular democratic tradition\", he explained.\n\nHe then joined the Federal Department of Foreign Affairs in Bern.\n\nIn 1940, Philippe Mottu established contact with a German diplomat in Bern, Herbert Blankenhorn, and, through him, with Adam von Trott zu Solz, one of the leaders of German resistance to Nazism. Upon von Trott's invitation, Mottu travelled to Berlin in November 1942 where he meets with other members of the resistance. During a British bombardment, a top German Foreign Affairs official, Hans-Bernd von Haften, asked him: \"As Christians, are we allowed to kill Hitler?\"\n\nSupported by the Swiss foreign minister, Marcel Pilet-Golaz, Philippe Mottu continued his contacts with von Trott and offered to act as a liaison person between the allied powers and the German Resistance by travelling himself to the United States, even though it was difficult to travel outside Switzerland. In April 1944, von Trott visited Switzerland where he was promised assistance to reach Lisbon, while Allen Dulles, chief of the OSS in Switzerland, promised his assistance for a transatlantic trip. A few days after the joint US-British Normandy landings on 6 June 1944, Mottu was in Stuttgart with von Trott and his group of friends : their coup was imminent. Mottu left for Washington having memorised all the names of the new German government.\n\nTo his despair, President Roosevelt and his advisors didn’t believe in the German resistance. Additionally on 20 July 1944, Operation Walkyrie failed. His worst fears became reality when, in the course of the following weeks and months, he got confirmation of the arrest and execution of all the main conspirators : von Trott, von Haften and hundreds of others...\n\nPhilippe Mottu had been deeply affected by his experience during WWII. In 1943 already, a recurring thought had come to him: \"If Switzerland escapes the ravages of this war, its mission will be to create a venue where French and Germans will be able to reconcile and build peace. Caux is the place.\"\n\nWith the financial support of around 100 Swiss families, Philippe Mottu and one of his friends Robert Hahnloser bought the derelict Caux Palace Hotel in 1946. It was repaired and refurbished thanks to the efforts of the Swiss and international teams, and, between 1946 and 1950, it welcomed thousands of French and German participants, among whom Konrad Adenauer and Robert Schuman, who will later rely on their exceptional mutual trust to launch the first steps of the European construction. The Caux summer conferences dedicated to peace and reconciliation are still taking place today.\n\nPhilippe Mottu contributed to the governance of the Caux conference centre from 1946 to 1961 and from 1967 to 1973 as a member of the Caux Foundation council. He was the Foundation's first president, from 1946 to 1958. Later on, he increasingly turned to the writing of numerous political philosophy books.\n\nOn , Philippe Mottu married Hélène de Trey. They will have four children, and, on the date of Philippe Mottu's death, nine grandchildren and one great-granddaughter.\n\nHis younger brother Daniel Mottu will be the Caux Foundation's president from 1977 to 1987.\n\nPhilippe Mottu wrote several books on international, political and social issues. Building on a vast culture and on a rigorous analysis of his time's trends, he for instance exposed the rise of intolerance and extremism in Judaism, Christianity and Islam; he was searching in which way humanity would adapt to the momentous transformations of the 20th century, and develop a harmonious society in the future, expressing the hope is that humanity will find spiritual resources allowing it to envisage its future with « a measure of serenity\".\n\nList of Philippe Mottu's publications:\n\nAs a thinker and as an activist, Philippe Mottu played a role in Swiss and European history, contributing to reinforce the spirit of resistance to fascism in Switzerland through the Gotthard League, to support German resistance to Hitler and on the European scene in triggering the setting up of the Caux conference Centre.\n\nPioneer of Moral Rearmament in Switzerland, he left to the next generations the Caux conference centre, of which he was the inspirator and one of the most instrumental administrators. He was also a daring entrepreneur who signed the purchase contract for Caux in 1946, together with Robert Hahnloser, risking his name without knowing whether the necessary funds would be found in order to meet the down payments deadline.\n\n"}
{"id": "16974892", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16974892", "title": "Pneumatosophy", "text": "Pneumatosophy\n\nFrom the anthroposophy teachings of Rudolf Steiner. \"Pneumatosophy\" (wisdom of the spirit) can be seen as part of his teachings on spiritual science and approaches the human spirit in terms of truth and error and the meaning and the effects of imagination, intuition, and inspiration. In some cases it will be difficult to understand the context between the subject matter and what is here termed pneumatosophy. Pneuma (Greek) literally \"breath\" or \"wind\". In the Bible is usually translated as \"spirit\". The suffix sophy stands for knowledge. \n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "56819159", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56819159", "title": "Posthumanization", "text": "Posthumanization\n\nPosthumanization comprises \"those processes by which a society comes to include members other than 'natural' biological human beings who, in one way or another, contribute to the structures, dynamics, or meaning of the society.\" Posthumanization is one of the key phenomena studied by those academic disciplines and methodologies that identify themselves as \"posthumanist\", including critical, cultural, and philosophical posthumanism. Its processes can be divided into forms of \"non-technological\" and \"technological\" posthumanization.\n\nWhile posthumanization has links with the scholarly methodologies of posthumanism, it is a distinct phenomenon. The rise of explicit posthumanism as a scholarly approach is relatively recent, occurring since the late 1970s; however, some of the processes of posthumanization that it studies are ancient. For example, the dynamics of \"non-technological\" posthumanization have existed historically in all societies in which animals were incorporated into families as household pets or in which ghosts, monsters, angels, or semidivine heroes were considered to play some role in the world.\n\nSuch non-technological posthumanization has been manifested not only in mythological and literary works but also in the construction of temples, cemeteries, zoos, or other physical structures that were considered to be inhabited or used by quasi- or para-human beings who were not natural, living, biological human beings but who nevertheless played some role within a given society, to the extent that, according to philosopher Francesca Ferrando: \"the notion of spirituality dramatically broadens our understanding of the posthuman, allowing us to investigate not only technical technologies (robotics, cybernetics, biotechnology, nanotechnology, among others), but also, technologies of existence.\" \n\nSome forms of technological posthumanization involve efforts to directly alter the social, psychological, or physical structures and behaviors of the human being through the development and application of technologies relating to genetic engineering or neurocybernetic augmentation; such forms of posthumanization are studied, e.g., by cyborg theory. Other forms of technological posthumanization indirectly \"posthumanize\" human society through the deployment of social robots or attempts to develop artificial general intelligences, sentient networks, or other entities that can collaborate and interact with human beings as members of posthumanized societies.\n\nThe dynamics of technological posthumanization have long been an important element of science fiction; genres such as cyberpunk take them as a central focus. In recent decades, technological posthumanization has also become the subject of increasing attention by scholars and policymakers. The expanding and accelerating forces of technological posthumanization have generated diverse and conflicting responses, with some researchers viewing the processes of posthumanization as opening the door to a more meaningful and advanced transhumanist future for humanity, while other bioconservative critiques warn that such processes may lead to a fragmentation of human society, loss of meaning, and subjugation to the forces of technology.\n\nProcesses of technological and non-technological posthumanization both tend to result in a partial \"de-anthropocentrization\" of human society, as its circle of membership is expanded to include other types of entities and the position of human beings is decentered. A common theme of posthumanist study is the way in which processes of posthumanization challenge or blur simple binaries, such as those of \"human versus non-human\", \"natural versus artificial\", \"alive versus non-alive\", and \"biological versus mechanical\".\n\n"}
{"id": "10152161", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10152161", "title": "R. Edward Freeman", "text": "R. Edward Freeman\n\nR. Edward Freeman (born December 18, 1951) is an American philosopher and professor of business administration at the Darden School of the University of Virginia, particularly known for his work on stakeholder theory (1984) and on business works.\n\nBorn in Columbus, Georgia, Freeman received a B.A. in mathematics and philosophy from Duke University in 1973 and a Ph.D. in philosophy from Washington University in 1978.\n\nHe taught at the University of Minnesota and the Wharton School, and is now Elis and Signe Olsson Professor of Business Administration at the Darden School of the University of Virginia. He is also academic director of the Business Roundtable Institute for Corporate Ethics, and director of the Darden's Olsson Center for Applied Ethics. In 1994 Freeman served as president of the Society for Business Ethics. He is one of the executive editors of the journal Philosophy of Management and he serves as the editor for the Ruffin Series in Business Ethics from Oxford University Press.\n\nIn 2001 Freeman was awarded the Pioneer Award for Lifetime Achievement by the World Resources Institute and by the Aspen Institute, and in 2005 the Virginia State Council on Higher Education honored him with the Outstanding Faculty Award.\n\nFreeman is particularly known for his work on stakeholder theory originally published in his 1984 book \"Strategic Management: A Stakeholder Approach\". He has (co)authored other books on corporate strategy and business ethics. Also recently he co-edited standard business textbooks such as \"The Portable MBA\" and the \"Blackwell's Handbook of Strategic Management.\" His latest book, \"Managing for Stakeholders\", was published 2007.\n\nStakeholder theory is a theory of organizational management and business ethics that addresses morals and values in managing an organization. It was originally detailed by Freeman in the book \"Strategic Management: a Stakeholder Approach\", and identifies and models the groups which are stakeholders of a corporation, and both describes and recommends methods by which management can give due regard to the interests of those groups. In short, it attempts to address the \"Principle of Who or What Really Counts.\"\n\nIn the traditional view of the firm, the shareholder view, the shareholders or stockholders are the owners of the company, and the firm has a binding fiduciary duty to put their needs first, to increase value for them. However, stakeholder theory argues that there are other parties involved, including governmental bodies, political groups, trade associations, trade unions, communities, financiers, suppliers, employees, and customers. Sometimes even competitors are counted as stakeholders - their status being derived from their capacity to affect the firm and its other morally legitimate stakeholders. The nature of what is a stakeholder is highly contested (Miles, 2012), with several definitions existing in the academic literature (Miles, 2011).\n\nCorporate social responsibility (CSR) is a form of corporate self-regulation integrated into a business model. CSR policy functions as a built-in, self-regulating mechanism whereby a business monitors and ensures its active compliance within the spirit of the law, ethical standards, and international norms. CSR is a process with the aim to embrace responsibility for the company's actions and encourage a positive impact through its activities on the environment, consumers, employees, communities, stakeholders and all other members of the public sphere who may also be considered as stakeholders.\n\nThe term \"corporate social responsibility\" came into common use in the late 1960s and early 1970s after many multinational corporations formed the term stakeholder, meaning those on whom an organization's activities have an impact. It was used to describe corporate owners beyond shareholders as a result of an influential book by Freeman, \"Strategic management: a stakeholder approach\" in 1984. Proponents argue that corporations make more long term profits by operating with a perspective, while critics argue that CSR distracts from the economic role of businesses. Others argue CSR is merely window-dressing, or an attempt to pre-empt the role of governments as a watchdog over powerful multinational corporations. Anticipation of such concepts appear in a publication that appeared in 1968 by Italian economist Giancarlo Pallavicini, creator of the \"Method of the decomposition of the parameters\" for the calculation of the results does not directly cost of business, regarding ethical issues, moral, social, cultural and environmental.\n\nBooks:\n\nArticles, a selection:\n\n"}
{"id": "33580540", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33580540", "title": "S. Debono", "text": "S. Debono\n\nS. Debono (19th century) was a Maltese scientist, linguist and minor philosopher. In philosophy he mostly specialised in ontology. Unfortunately, his exact Christian name is unknown. Neither do we possess as yet a portrait of him.\n\nDetails about Debono’s personal life are still unidentified. Considering his philosophical contribution, this is indeed unfortunate. Nevertheless, research might bring to light who this person was, and also the whole extent of his philosophical production. It is actually regretful that Debono’s philosophy has still not been studied well and thoroughly.\n\nOnly one philosophical work of Debono is known to exist: Lezioni di Filosofia su i Principi della Ontologia (1845). Another writing, insignificant to philosophy, is \"Note Grammaticali concernenti la Lingua Inglese\" (Grammatical Notes concerning the English Language; 1845).\n\nDebono’s \"Lezioni\" is a 415-page book in Italian published in Malta (at Tipografia E. Laferla). It is a great pity that this is just one of a multi-volume work, all of the rest have as yet not been discovered. The work opens with a preface and proceeds with thirty-three ‘lessons’ (\"lezioni\") organised in four sections, of which the first serves as a general introduction. The other sections deal successively with general metaphysics, special metaphysics, and moral philosophy\n\nDebono insists on the central importance which concepts should have within the framework of ‘erudite philosophy’, and hence within the methods used to have understanding and acquire sure knowledge. In this context, Debono reveals his dislike of philosophical materialism, particularly that proposed by Spinoza, Schelling and Cousin.\n\nIn the preface, Debono expounds on the esteem which philosophy enjoys with regard to other sciences. This is derived from the nobility of its object, which Debono identifies with the human spirit. In the introduction (composed of eleven ‘lessons’) he explores the concepts on which philosophical teaching is based, and the objectives which such teaching tries to achieve. In the context, Debono deals with the concept of truth, the main principle of philosophy (the satisfaction of reason), the intellective method, syllogism, syllogistic argumentation, sophistry (two ‘lessons’), the aim of rational thought, logical judgement, and the centrality of concepts to philosophy.\n\nIn the section dealing with general metaphysics (only four ‘lessons’), Debono discusses the concepts of the structure (or organisation) of being and of truth as the correspondence to reality, causality, the inclinations of humans as contingent beings, and simple and composite being.\n\nNext, in the part dealing with special metaphysics (eleven ‘lessons’), Debono deals with the beginning and progress of philosophy, the world, destiny, natural and non-natural effects, humans, the non-elementary virtues of humans, the generation of the human spirit, the existence of God, and internal cult (as opposed to that external). One of these ‘lessons’ is dedicated entirely to Locke, in which Debono opposes him on all counts.\n\nIn the final section, that dealing with moral philosophy or ethics (in seven ‘lessons’), Debono discusses religion, happiness as humans’ highest end, the duties of scientists, on right behaviour (especially moderation), duties in general, genuine ethical mistakes, and the principal reason for acquiring knowledge and science.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2283216", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2283216", "title": "Sarane Alexandrian", "text": "Sarane Alexandrian\n\nSarane Alexandrian (15 June 1927, Baghdad – 11 September 2009, Ivry-sur-Seine) was a French philosopher, essayist, and art critic.\n\nAlexandrian was born to a French mother and Armenian father, Vartan Alexandrian, a stomatologist under the service of Faisal I. At the age of six, he was sent to Paris to stay with his maternal grandmother.\n\nAlexandrian's initiation to Dada and surrealism came in the summer of 1943 when, aged 16, he met Raoul Hausmann who was staying in Peyrat-le-Château near Limoges as a refugee. From 1947, he served as the last secretary of André Breton and became an essential figure of the surrealist current.\n\nAlexandrian was an advocate of the philosophy Nietzsche advanced in \"The Gay Science\" (\"Die fröhliche Wissenschaft\"). He headed the journal \"Supérieur Inconnu\" (a title provided by Breton), which exalts four values shared by the surrealists and Alexandrian: dreams, love, knowledge, and revolution. Catherine Millet is one notable contributor to the magazine.\n\nAlexandrian was a friend of Victor Brauner, and remained an admirer of Charles Fourier, and an ardent defender of Mata Hari.\n\nAlexandrian has more than 40 books to his credit. His best known works are:\n\n\n\nPréfaces in Musculatures of Nathalie Gassel\n\n"}
{"id": "31436836", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31436836", "title": "Textual variants in the Gospel of Matthew", "text": "Textual variants in the Gospel of Matthew\n\nTextual variants in books of the New Testament arise when a copyist makes deliberate or inadvertent alterations to a text being reproduced. The critical editions of the Gospel of Matthew are based on all available papyri: Papyrus 1, Papyrus 19, Papyrus 21, Papyrus 25, Papyrus 35, Papyrus 37, Papyrus 44, Papyrus 45, Papyrus 53, Papyrus 62, Papyrus 64, Papyrus 70, Papyrus 71, Papyrus 77, Papyrus 86, and on the following uncials: 01, 02, 03, 04, 05, 019, 032, 035, 038, 058, 064, 067, 071, 073, 074, 078, 084, 085, 087, 089, 090, 092a, 094, 0104, 0106, 0107, 0118, 0119, 0128, 0135, 0136, 0137, 0138, 0148, 0160, 0161, 0164, 0170, 0171, 0197, 0200, 0204, 0231, 0234, 0237, 0242, 0249, 0255, 0271, 0275.\n\n4:23b\n\nMatthew 5:47\n\na\n\n6:18b\n\n6:22b\n\n6:25b\n\n6:32b\n\n6:32c\n\na\n\n7:4b\n\n7:27b\n\n8:1\n\n8:3a\n\n8:3b\n\n8:4a\n\n8:4b\n\n8:5\n\n8:6\n\n8:7a\n\n8:7b\n\n8:8a\n\n8:8b\n\n8:10\n\n8:11\n\n8:12\n\nMatthew 9:4a\n\nMatthew 9:4b\n\n9:6a\n\n9:6b\n\n9:9a\n9:9b\n9:9c\n\n9:10a\n9:10b\n9:10c\n\n9:27a\n9:27b\n9:27c\n\n9:28a\n9:28b\n9:28c\n9:28d\n9:30a\n9:30b\n\n (see Mark 7:13)\n\nMatthew 17:15\n\na\n\nb\n\nMatthew 17:20\n\nMatthew 17:20\n\n\"But seek to increase from that which is small, and to become less from which is greater. When you enter into a house and are summoned to dine, do not sit down at the prominent places, lest perchance a man more honorable than you come in afterwards, and he who invited you come and say to you, \"Go down lower\"; and you shall be ashamed. But if you sit down in the inferior place, and one inferior to you come in, then he that invited you will say to you, \"Go up higher\"; and this will be advantageous for you.\"\n\n/24:10\n\n (see John 19:34)\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2582122", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2582122", "title": "The Work of Art in the Age of Mechanical Reproduction", "text": "The Work of Art in the Age of Mechanical Reproduction\n\nThe Work of Art in the Age of Mechanical Reproduction (1935, \"Das Kunstwerk im Zeitalter seiner technischen Reproduzierbarkeit\"), by Walter Benjamin, is an essay of cultural criticism which proposes that the \"aura\" of a work of art is devalued by mechanical reproduction. The subject and themes of the essay have much influenced the fields of art history and architectural theory, and of cultural studies and media theory. \n\nDuring the Nazi régime (1933–45) in Germany, Benjamin wrote the essay to produce a theory of art that is “useful for the formulation of revolutionary demands in the politics of art” in mass culture; that, in the age of mechanical reproduction, and the absence of traditional and ritualistic value, the production of art would be inherently based upon the praxis of politics.\n\nThree editions of \"The Work of Art in the Age of Mechanical Reproduction\" were published: (i) the original, German edition in 1935; (ii) the French edition in 1936; and (iii) the revised German edition in 1939, from which derive the contemporary English translations of the essay. \n\nThe themes of \"The Work of Art in the Age of Mechanical Reproduction\" (1935) are initially presented in a quotation from the essay “The Conquest of Ubiquity” (1928), by Paul Valéry, which establishes that the works of art developed in the past are different from contemporary works of art; that the understanding and treatment of art and of artistic technique must progressively develop in order to understand a work of art in the modern context.\n\nThe Preface presents Marxist analyses of the construction of society and of the place of art in a capitalist society; and explains the socio-economic conditions to extrapolate future developments of capitalism, which, ultimately, result in the exploitation of the proletariat, and produce the social conditions that would abolish capitalism. \n\nBenjamin reviews the development of the means of the mechanical reproduction of art — an artist manually copying the work of a master artist; the industrial arts of the foundry and the stamp mill in Ancient Greece; woodcut relief-printing, etching, engraving, lithography, and photography — to establish that artistic reproduction is not a modern human activity, and that the modern means of artistic reproduction permit greater accuracy throughout the process of mass production.\n\nBenjamin discusses the concept of authenticity, of being in accordance with fact, noting that “even the most perfect reproduction of a work of art is lacking in one element: Its presence in time and space, its unique existence at the place where it happens to be.” In the artwork proper, Benjamin argues, the “sphere of authenticity is outside the technical [sphere]” of producing the art work; hence, the original work of art is independent of the copy. The action of mechanical reproduction diminishes the original art work by changing the cultural context (original vs. copy); thus, the \"aura\", the unique aesthetic authority, of an artwork is absent from the mechanically produced copy. Benjamin’s concept of the \"aura\" of a work of art derived from the work of Ludwig Klages.\n\nThat the social value of a work of art changes as society change their value systems, which accounts for the changes in artistic style and in the cultural taste of the public; “the manner in which human sense-perception is organized, the [artistic] medium in which it is accomplished, is determined not only by Nature, but by historical circumstances as well.” \n\nDespite the socio-cultural effects of reproduction-art upon the original work of art, Benjamin said that “the uniqueness of a work of art is inseparable from its being embedded in the fabric of tradition”, which separates the original work of art from the reproduction. He also discusses the ritualization of art-reproduction and the emancipation of “the work of art from its parasitical dependence on ritual.” That the social-value of the exhibition of art progressed from the private sphere to the public sphere of life; historically, works of art were for the private viewing and aesthetic enjoyment of the owner of the artefacts (usually High Art); contemporarily, works of art are exhibited in a public gallery, to provide the enjoyment of aesthetic pleasure to a greater number of people.\n\n\"The Work of Art in the Age of Mechanical Reproduction\" much influenced the intellectualism of the Frankfurt School, especially the aesthetic and political analyses of Theodor W. Adorno, Max Horkheimer, and Herbert Marcuse.\n\nIn the late 20th century, in the television program \"Ways of Seeing\" (1972), John Berger drew from the themes of Walter Benjamin’s essay, and explained the contemporary representations of social-class and racial-caste in the production of art. That the modern means of artistic production and of artistic reproduction have destroyed the aesthetic, cultural, and political authority of art: “For the first time ever, images of art have become ephemeral, ubiquitous, insubstantial, available, valueless, free”, for lacking the \"aura\" of the original work of art.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1313078", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1313078", "title": "The World as Will and Representation", "text": "The World as Will and Representation\n\nThe World as Will and Representation (WWR; , WWV) is the central work of the German philosopher Arthur Schopenhauer. The first edition was published in 1818/19, the second expanded edition in 1844, and the third expanded edition in 1859. In 1948, an abridged version was edited by Thomas Mann.\n\nIn the English language, this work is known under three different titles. Although English publications about Schopenhauer played a role in the recognition of his fame as a philosopher in later life (1851 until his death in 1860) and a three volume translation by R. B. Haldane and J. Kemp, titled \"The World as Will and Idea\", appeared already in 1883–1886, the first English translation of the expanded edition of this work under this title \"The World as Will and Representation\" appeared by E. F. J. Payne (who also translated several other works of Schopenhauer) as late as in 1958 (paperback editions in 1966 and 1969). A later English translation by Richard E. Aquila in collaboration with David Carus is titled \"The World as Will and Presentation\" (2008).\n\nPresent-day translator Richard Aquila argues that the reader will not grasp the details of the philosophy of Schopenhauer properly without this new title: \"The World as Will and Presentation\". According to him, \"Idea\", \"Representation\", and \"Presentation\" are all acceptable renderings of the word \"Vorstellung\", but it is the notion of a performance or a theatrical presentation that is key in his interpretation. The world that we perceive is a \"presentation\" of objects in the theatre of our own mind; the observers, the \"subject\", each craft the show with their own stage managers, stagehands, sets, lighting, code of dress, pay scale, etc. The other aspect of the world, the Will, or \"thing in itself\", which is not perceivable as a presentation, exists outside time, space, and causality. Aquila claims to make these distinctions as linguistically precise as possible.\n\nThe main body of the work states at the beginning that it assumes prior knowledge of Immanuel Kant's theories, and Schopenhauer is regarded by some as remaining more faithful to Kant's metaphysical system of transcendental idealism than any of the other later German Idealists. However, the book contains an appendix entitled \"Critique of the Kantian Philosophy,\" in which Schopenhauer rejects most of Kant's ethics and significant parts of his epistemology and aesthetics. Schopenhauer demands that the introduction be read before the book itself, although it is not fully contained in this book but appeared earlier under the title \"On the Fourfold Root of the Principle of Sufficient Reason\". He also states in his introduction that the reader will be at his best prepared to understand his theories if he has lingered in the school of Plato or he is already familiar with Indian philosophy.\n\nSchopenhauer believed that Kant had ignored inner experience, as intuited through the will, which was the most important form of experience. Schopenhauer saw the human will as our one window to the world behind the representation; the Kantian thing-in-itself. He believed, therefore, that we could gain knowledge about the thing-in-itself, something Kant said was impossible, since the rest of the relationship between representation and thing-in-itself could be understood by analogy to the relationship between human will and human body. According to Schopenhauer, the entire world is the representation of a single Will, of which our individual wills are phenomena. In this way, Schopenhauer's metaphysics go beyond the limits that Kant had set, but do not go so far as the rationalist system-builders who preceded Kant. Other important differences are Schopenhauer's rejection of eleven of Kant's twelve categories, arguing that only causality was important. Matter and causality were both seen as a union of time and space and thus being equal to each other.\n\nSchopenhauer frequently acknowledges drawing on Plato in the development of his theories and, particularly in the context of aesthetics, speaks of the Platonic forms as existing on an intermediate ontological level between the representation and the Will.\n\nThe development of Schopenhauer's ideas took place very early in his career (1814–1818) and culminated in the publication of the first volume of \"Will and Representation\" in 1819. This first volume consisted of four books – covering his epistemology, ontology, aesthetics and ethics, in order. Much later in his life, in 1844, Schopenhauer published a second edition in two volumes, the first a virtual reprint of the original, and the second a new work consisting of clarifications to and additional reflections on the first. His views had not changed substantially.\n\nHis belated fame after 1851 stimulated renewed interest in his seminal work, and led to a third and final edition with 136 more pages in 1859, one year before his death. In the preface to the latter, Schopenhauer noted: \"If I also have at last arrived, and have the satisfaction at the end of my life of seeing the beginning of my influence, it is with the hope that, according to an old rule, it will last longer in proportion to the lateness of its beginning.\"\n\nSchopenhauer used the word \"will\" as a human's most familiar designation for the concept that can also be signified by other words such as \"desire,\" \"striving,\" \"wanting,\" \"effort,\" and \"urging.\" Schopenhauer's philosophy holds that all nature, including man, is the expression of an insatiable \"will to life\".\nIt is through the will that mankind finds all their suffering. Desire for more is what causes this suffering. He argues that only aesthetic pleasure creates momentary escape from the Will. Although the concept of desire may be influenced by Buddhist teachings, it should not be treated as direct reference since desire is not thought to be the fundamental nature of human beings in Buddhism.\n\nAs mentioned above, Schopenhauer's notion of the will comes from the Kantian thing-in-itself, which Kant believed to be the fundamental reality behind the representation that provided the matter of perception, but lacked form. Kant believed that space, time, causation, and many other similar phenomena belonged properly to the form imposed on the world by the human mind in order to create the representation, and these factors were absent from the thing-in-itself. Schopenhauer pointed out that anything outside of time and space could not be differentiated, so the thing-in-itself must be one and all things that exist, including human beings, must be part of this fundamental unity. Our inner-experience must be a manifestation of the noumenal realm and the will is the inner kernel of every being. All knowledge gained of objects is seen as self-referential, as we recognize the same will in other things as is inside us.\n\nIn Book 2, electricity and gravity are described as fundamental forces of the will. Knowledge is something that was invented to serve the will and is present in both human and non-human animals. It is subordinate to the demands of the will for all animals and most humans. The fundamental nature of the universe and everything in it is seen as this will. Schopenhauer presents a pessimistic picture on which unfulfilled desires are painful, and pleasure is merely the sensation experienced at the instant one such pain is removed. However, most desires are never fulfilled, and those that are fulfilled are instantly replaced by more unfulfilled ones.\n\nLike many other aesthetic theories, Schopenhauer's centers on the concept of genius. Genius, according to Schopenhauer, is possessed by all people in varying degrees and consists of the capacity for aesthetic experience. An aesthetic experience occurs when an individual perceives an object and understands by it not the individual object itself, but the Platonic form of the object. The individual is then able to lose himself in the object of contemplation and, for a brief moment, escape the cycle of unfulfilled desire by becoming \"the pure subject of will-less knowing\". Those who have a high degree of genius can be taught to communicate these aesthetic experiences to others, and objects that communicate these experiences are works of art. Based on this theory, Schopenhauer viewed Dutch still-life as the best type of painting, because it was able to help viewers see beauty in ordinary, everyday objects. However, he sharply criticized depictions of nude women and prepared food, as these stimulate desire and thus hinder the viewer from the aesthetic experience and becoming \"the pure subject of will-less knowing\".\n\nMusic also occupies a privileged place in Schopenhauer's aesthetics, as he believed it to have a special relationship to the will. Where other forms of art are imitations of things perceived in the world, music is a direct expression and articulation of the will.\n\nSchopenhauer claims in this book to set forth a purely descriptive account of human ethical behavior, in which he identifies two types of behavior: the affirmation and denial of the will.\n\nAccording to Schopenhauer, the Will (the great Will that is the thing-in-itself, not the individual wills of humans and animals, which are phenomena of the Will) conflicts with itself through the egoism that every human and animal is endowed with. Compassion arises from a transcendence of this egoism (the penetration of the illusory perception of individuality, so that one can empathise with the suffering of another) and can serve as a clue to the possibility of going beyond desire and the will. Schopenhauer categorically denies the existence of the \"freedom of the will\" in the conventional sense, and only adumbrates how the will can be \"released\" or negated, but is not subject to change, and serves as the root of the chain of causal determinism. His praise for asceticism led him to think highly of Buddhism and Vedanta Hinduism, as well as some monastic orders and ascetic practices found in Catholicism. He expressed contempt for Protestantism, Judaism, and Islam, which he saw as optimistic, devoid of metaphysics and cruel to non-human animals. According to Schopenhauer, the deep truth of the matter is that in cases of the over-affirmation of the will – that is, cases where one individual exerts his will not only for its own fulfillment but for the improper domination of others – he is unaware that he is really identical with the person he is harming, so that the Will in fact constantly harms itself, and justice is done in the moment in which the crime is committed, since the same metaphysical individual is both the perpetrator and the victim.\n\nSchopenhauer discusses suicide at length, noting that it does not actually destroy the Will or any part of it in any substantial way, since death is merely the end of one particular phenomenon of the Will, which is subsequently rearranged. By asceticism, the ultimate denial of the will, one can slowly weaken the individual will in a way that is far more significant than violent suicide, which is, in fact, in some sense an affirmation of the will.\n\nAccording to Schopenhauer, denial of the will to live is the way to salvation from suffering. \"Schopenhauer tells us that when the will is denied, the sage becomes nothing, without actually dying.\" When willing disappears, both the willer and the world become nothing. \"...[T]o one who has achieved the will-less state, it is the world of the willer that has been disclosed as 'nothing'. Its hold over us, its seeming reality, has been 'abolished' so that it now stands before us as nothing but a bad dream from which we are, thankfully, awaking.\" As Schopenhauer wrote: \"...to those in whom the will has turned and denied itself, this very real world of ours, with all its Suns and Milky Ways, is – nothing.\"\n\nAt the end of Book 4, Schopenhauer appended a thorough discussion of the merits and faults of Kant's philosophy. Schopenhauer's critique of the Kantian philosophy asserted that Kant's greatest error was the failure to distinguish between perceptual, intuitive knowledge, or insight and conceptual, discursive knowledge, or investigative thinking. One of Kant's greatest contributions, according to Schopenhauer, was the distinction of the phenomenon from the thing-in-itself.\n\nThe second volume consisted of several essays expanding topics covered in the first. Most important are his reflections on death and his theory on sexuality, which saw it as a manifestation of the whole will making sure that it will live on and depriving humans of their reason and sanity in their longing for their loved ones. Less successful is his theory of genetics: he argued that humans inherit their will, and thus their character, from their fathers, but their intellect from their mothers and he provides examples from biographies of great figures to illustrate this theory. The second volume also contains attacks on contemporary philosophers such as Fichte, Schelling, and Hegel.\n\nThe contents of Volume II are as follows.\n\nFirst Half: The Doctrine of the Representation of Perception (through § 1 – 7 of Volume I)\n\nSecond Half: The Doctrine of the Abstract Representation or of Thinking\n\n\n\nThe first decades after its publication \"The World as Will and Representation\" was met with near silence. Exceptions were Goethe and Jean Paul. Goethe immediately started to read the magnum opus of Schopenhauer when it arrived and \"read it with an eagerness as she [Ottilie von Goethe] had \"never\" before seen in him.\". Goethe told his daughter-in-law that he had now pleasure for an entire year, because he would read it completely, contrary to his custom of sampling pages to his liking. The influence of Schopenhauer can be read in Gespräche mit Goethe and .\n\nIn the years where the work was largely ignored, Jean Paul praised it as “a work of philosophical genius, bold, universal, full of penetration and profoundness — but of a depth often hopeless and bottomless, akin to that melancholy lake in Norway, in whose deep water, beneath the steep rock-walls, one never sees the sun, but only starts reflected.”, on which Schopenhauer commented: “In my opinion the praise of one man of genius fully makes good the neglect of a thoughtless multitude.”\n\nThis neglect came to an end in the last years of his life. Schopenhauer would become the most influentual philosopher in Germany until World War I. Especially artists were attracted to the work. No philosopher had given so much importance to art: one fourth of \"The World as Will and Representation\" is concerned with aesthetics. To be mentioned are Wagner (Influence of Schopenhauer on Tristan und Isolde), Schönberg, Mahler, who cites \"The World as Will and Representation\" as “the most profound writing on music he had ever encountered”, Thomas Mann, Hermann Hesse, Jorge Luis Borges, Tolstoy, D. H. Lawrence and Samuel Beckett.\n\nThe philosophers Friedrich Nietzsche and Philipp Mainländer both described the discovery of \"The World as Will and Representation\" as a revelation. Nietzsche commented, “I belong to those readers of Schopenhauer who know perfectly well, after they have turned the first page, that they will read all the others, and listen to every word that he has spoken.”\n\nCharles Darwin quoted \"The World as Will and Representation\" in \"The Descent of Man\". Some read ideas in it that can be found in the theory of evolution, for example, that sexual instinct is a tool of nature to ensure the quality of the offspring and that intellect is a mere means to preserve life. Schopenhauer argued in favor of transformism by pointing to one of the most important and familiar evidences of the truth of the theory of descent, the homologies in the inner structure of all the vertebrates.\n\nSchopenhauer's ideas on the unconscious can be found in psychoanalysis and the works of Sigmund Freud and Carl Jung. Whereas Jung acknowledged Schopenhauer's influence, Freud denied to have read Schopenhauer until late in life, a claim which is considered to be doubtful.\n\nSchopenhauer's discussions of language and ethics were a major influence on Ludwig Wittgenstein.\n\nSchopenhauer's views on the independence of spatially separated systems, the \"principium individuationis\", influenced Einstein, who called him a genius. Schrödinger put the Schopenhaurian label on a folder of papers in his files “Collection of Thoughts on the physical Principium individuationis.”\n\n\n"}
{"id": "453765", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=453765", "title": "Thoralf Skolem", "text": "Thoralf Skolem\n\nThoralf Albert Skolem (23 May 1887 – 23 March 1963) () was a Norwegian mathematician who worked in mathematical logic and set theory.\n\nAlthough Skolem's father was a primary school teacher, most of his extended family were farmers. Skolem attended secondary school in Kristiania (later renamed Oslo), passing the university entrance examinations in 1905. He then entered Det Kongelige Frederiks Universitet to study mathematics, also taking courses in physics, chemistry, zoology and botany.\n\nIn 1909, he began working as an assistant to the physicist Kristian Birkeland, known for bombarding magnetized spheres with electrons and obtaining aurora-like effects; thus Skolem's first publications were physics papers written jointly with Birkeland. In 1913, Skolem passed the state examinations with distinction, and completed a dissertation titled \"Investigations on the Algebra of Logic\". He also traveled with Birkeland to the Sudan to observe the zodiacal light. He spent the winter semester of 1915 at the University of Göttingen, at the time the leading research center in mathematical logic, metamathematics, and abstract algebra, fields in which Skolem eventually excelled. In 1916 he was appointed a research fellow at Det Kongelige Frederiks Universitet. In 1918, he became a Docent in Mathematics and was elected to the Norwegian Academy of Science and Letters.\n\nSkolem did not at first formally enroll as a Ph.D. candidate, believing that the Ph.D. was unnecessary in Norway. He later changed his mind and submitted a thesis in 1926, titled \"Some theorems about integral solutions to certain algebraic equations and inequalities\". His notional thesis advisor was Axel Thue, even though Thue had died in 1922.\n\nIn 1927, he married Edith Wilhelmine Hasvold.\n\nSkolem continued to teach at Det kongelige Frederiks Universitet (renamed the University of Oslo in 1939) until 1930 when he became a Research Associate in Chr. Michelsen Institute in Bergen. This senior post allowed Skolem to conduct research free of administrative and teaching duties. However, the position also required that he reside in Bergen, a city which then lacked a university and hence had no research library, so that he was unable to keep abreast of the mathematical literature. In 1938, he returned to Oslo to assume the Professorship of Mathematics at the university. There he taught the graduate courses in algebra and number theory, and only occasionally on mathematical logic. Skolem's Ph.D. student Øystein Ore went on to a career in the USA.\n\nSkolem served as president of the Norwegian Mathematical Society, and edited the \"Norsk Matematisk Tidsskrift\" (\"The Norwegian Mathematical Journal\") for many years. He was also the founding editor of \"Mathematica Scandinavica\".\n\nAfter his 1957 retirement, he made several trips to the United States, speaking and teaching at universities there. He remained intellectually active until his sudden and unexpected death.\n\nFor more on Skolem's academic life, see Fenstad (1970).\n\nSkolem published around 180 papers on Diophantine equations, group theory, lattice theory, and most of all, set theory and mathematical logic. He mostly published in Norwegian journals with limited international circulation, so that his results were occasionally rediscovered by others. An example is the Skolem–Noether theorem, characterizing the automorphisms of simple algebras. Skolem published a proof in 1927, but Emmy Noether independently rediscovered it a few years later.\n\nSkolem was among the first to write on lattices. In 1912, he was the first to describe a free distributive lattice generated by \"n\" elements. In 1919, he showed that every implicative lattice (now also called a Skolem lattice) is distributive and, as a partial converse, that every finite distributive lattice is implicative. After these results were rediscovered by others, Skolem published a 1936 paper in German, \"Über gewisse 'Verbände' oder 'Lattices'\", surveying his earlier work in lattice theory.\n\nSkolem was a pioneer model theorist. In 1920, he greatly simplified the proof of a theorem Leopold Löwenheim first proved in 1915, resulting in the Löwenheim–Skolem theorem, which states that if a countable first-order theory has an infinite model, then it has a countable model. His 1920 proof employed the axiom of choice, but he later (1922 and 1928) gave proofs using Kőnig's lemma in place of that axiom. It is notable that Skolem, like Löwenheim, wrote on mathematical logic and set theory employing the notation of his fellow pioneering model theorists Charles Sanders Peirce and Ernst Schröder, including ∏, ∑ as variable-binding quantifiers, in contrast to the notations of Peano, Principia Mathematica, and \"Principles of Mathematical Logic\". Skolem (1934) pioneered the construction of non-standard models of arithmetic and set theory.\n\nSkolem (1922) refined Zermelo's axioms for set theory by replacing Zermelo's vague notion of a \"definite\" property with any property that can be coded in first-order logic. The resulting axiom is now part of the standard axioms of set theory. Skolem also pointed out that a consequence of the Löwenheim–Skolem theorem is what is now known as Skolem's paradox: If Zermelo's axioms are consistent, then they must be satisfiable within a countable domain, even though they prove the existence of uncountable sets.\n\nThe completeness of first-order logic is an easy corollary of results Skolem proved in the early 1920s and discussed in Skolem (1928), but he failed to note this fact, perhaps because mathematicians and logicians did not become fully aware of completeness as a fundamental metamathematical problem until the 1928 first edition of Hilbert and Ackermann's \"Principles of Mathematical Logic\" clearly articulated it. In any event, Kurt Gödel first proved this completeness in 1930.\n\nSkolem distrusted the completed infinite and was one of the founders of finitism in mathematics. Skolem (1923) sets out his primitive recursive arithmetic, a very early contribution to the theory of computable functions, as a means of avoiding the so-called paradoxes of the infinite. Here he developed the arithmetic of the natural numbers by first defining objects by primitive recursion, then devising another system to prove properties of the objects defined by the first system. These two systems enabled him to define prime numbers and to set out a considerable amount of number theory. If the first of these systems can be considered as a programming language for defining objects, and the second as a programming logic for proving properties about the objects, Skolem can be seen as an unwitting pioneer of theoretical computer science.\n\nIn 1929, Presburger proved that Peano arithmetic without multiplication was consistent, complete, and decidable. The following year, Skolem proved that the same was true of Peano arithmetic without addition, a system named Skolem arithmetic in his honor. Gödel's famous 1931 result is that Peano arithmetic itself (with both addition and multiplication) is incompletable and hence \"a posteriori\" undecidable.\n\nHao Wang praised Skolem's work as follows:\n\"Skolem tends to treat general problems by concrete examples. He often seemed to present proofs in the same order as he came to discover them. This results in a fresh informality as well as a certain inconclusiveness. Many of his papers strike one as progress reports. Yet his ideas are often pregnant and potentially capable of wide application. He was very much a 'free spirit': he did not belong to any school, he did not found a school of his own, he did not usually make heavy use of known results... he was very much an innovator and most of his papers can be read and understood by those without much specialized knowledge. It seems quite likely that if he were young today, logic... would not have appealed to him.\" (Skolem 1970: 17-18)\n\nFor more on Skolem's accomplishments, see Hao Wang (1970).\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "22340876", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22340876", "title": "Tibetan tsakli", "text": "Tibetan tsakli\n\nTsakli (also “tsakalis”) are Tibetan Buddhist miniature paintings, normally produced as thematic groups or sets, which are used in rituals as initiation cards, and in the training of monks. Examples of this miniature art are also known from Mongolia.\n\nThe subjects found on tsakli are similar to the better known larger Tibetan thangka scroll paintings on cloth, but much simpler, usually showing only a single deity, or a pair. The subjects are usually deities or ritual objects and offerings associated with these deities are represented on the tsaklis. Occasionally, Tibetan inscriptions on the backside can identify the subjects which are painted on the front.\n\nThe tsakli which are normally painted in sets which can comprise from 6 to almost 100 small paintings of similar subjects are used as offerings in temples or in rituals. For example, before a temple building is started, the area can be marked with tsakli representing protective deities. In this case they are mounted on small wooden sticks. Similarly tsakli can be used by a buddhist lama to remove evil influences from a sick person, from a tree which does not bear fruit or a stack of grain which is going to be thrashed. A tsakli can also be placed in a portable shrine or box (Tibetan “gau”) and carried as a device giving protection to the traveller or pilgrim who carries this box around the neck or on a shoulder strap.\n\nThe majority of tsakli are painted on cloth (like most of the tangkas) or cardboard. There exist also tsakli which are printed from woodblocks on cloth or paper. Larger sets of tsakli are kept between two wooden covers in a similar manner as pages of Tibetan books are protected.\n\n"}
{"id": "39298796", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39298796", "title": "Victor Brochard", "text": "Victor Brochard\n\nVictor Charles Louis Brochard (; 29 June 1848 – 25 November 1907) was a French philosopher and historian of philosophy.\n\nVictor Brochard was born in Quesnoy-sur-Deûle. He entered the \nÉcole Normale Supérieure in 1868, and in 1872 was appointed professor of philosophy at the lycée de Pau. After a succession of other lycée appointments, he was appointed lecturer at the École Normale Supérieure in 1886. A few years later he was appointed professor of the history of ancient philosophy at the Sorbonne.\n\nBrochard died in Paris.\n\nFriedrich Nietzsche read and used Brochard's book on the Greek Skeptics intensively.\n\n"}
{"id": "1342802", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1342802", "title": "Wedding invitation", "text": "Wedding invitation\n\nA wedding invitation is a letter asking the recipient to attend a wedding. It is typically written in formal, third-person language and mailed five to eight weeks before the wedding date.\n\nLike any other invitation, it is the privilege and duty of the host—historically, for younger brides in Western culture, the mother of the bride, on behalf of the bride's family—to issue invitations, either by sending them herself or causing them to be sent, either by enlisting the help of relatives, friends, or her social secretary to select the guest list and address envelopes, or by hiring a service. With computer technology, some are able to print directly on envelopes from a guest list using a mail merge with word processing and spreadsheet software.\n\nPrior to the invention of the moveable-type printing press by Johannes Gutenberg in 1447, weddings in England were typically announced by means of a Town crier: a man who would walk through the streets announcing in a loud voice the news of the day. Traditionally, anyone within earshot became part of the celebration.\n\nIn the Middle Ages, illiteracy was widespread, so the practice of sending written wedding invitations emerged among the nobility. Families of means would commission monks, skilled in the art of Calligraphy, to hand-craft their notices.\n\nSuch documents often carried the Coat of arms, or personal crest, of the individual and were sealed with wax.\n\nDespite the emergence of the printing press, the ordinary printing techniques of the time, in which ink was simply stamped onto the paper using lead type, produced too poor a result for stylish invitations. However, the tradition of announcing weddings in the newspaper did become established at this time.\n\nIn 1642, the invention of metal-plate engraving (or Mezzotint) by Ludwig von Siegen brought higher-quality wedding invitations within the reach of the emerging middle class. Engraving, as the name implies, requires an artisan to \"hand write\" the text in reverse onto a metal plate using a carving tool, and the plate was then used to print the invitation. The resulting engraved invitations were protected from smudging by a sheet of tissue paper placed on top, which is a tradition that remains to this day.\n\nAt the time, the wording of wedding invitations was more elaborate than today; typically, the name of each guest was individually printed on the invitation.\n\nFollowing the invention of Lithography by Alois Senefelder in 1798, it became possible to produce very sharp and distinctive inking without the need for engraving. This paved the way for the emergence of a genuine mass-market in wedding invitations.\n\nWedding invitations were still delivered by hand and on horseback, however, due to the unreliability of the nascent postal system. A ‘double envelope’ was used to protect the invitation from damage en route to its recipient. This tradition remains today, despite advances in postal reliability.\n\nThe origins of commercially printed 'fine wedding stationery' can be traced to the period immediately following World War II, where a combination of democracy and rapid industrial growth gave the common man the ability to mimic the life-styles and materialism of society's elite. About this time, prominent society figures, such as Amy Vanderbilt and Emily Post, emerged to advise the ordinary man and woman on appropriate etiquette.\n\nGrowth in the use of wedding stationery was also underpinned by the development of thermography. Although it lacks the fineness and distinctiveness of engraving, thermography is a less expensive method of achieving raised type. This technique, often called poor man's engraving, produces shiny, raised lettering without impressing the surface of the paper (in the way traditional engraving does). As such, wedding invitations - either printed or engraved - finally became affordable for all.\n\nMore recently Letterpress printing has made a strong resurgence in popularity for wedding invitations. It has a certain boutique and craft appeal due to the deep impression or bite that can be achieved. It was not the original intent of letterpress to bite into the paper in this way, but rather to kiss it creating a flat print. The bite or deep impression is a recent aesthetic that adds the sensory experience of touch to letterpress printed wedding invitations. Many letterpress printers that specialize in wedding invitations are small start ups or artisan printers, rather than large printing companies.\n\nLaser engraving has also been making headway in the wedding invitation market over the last few years. Primarily used for engraving wood veneer invitations, it is also used to engrave acrylic, or to mark certain types of metal invitations.\n\nThe latest trend in wedding invitations is to order them online. Using the internet has made viewing, organising and ordering wedding invitations an easy task. There are hundreds of websites that offer wedding invitations and stationery and being online allows the customer to order from anywhere in the world.\n\nEtiquette regarding the text on a formal wedding invitation varies according to country, culture and language. In Western countries, a formal invitation is typically written in formal, third-person language, saying that the hosts wish for the recipient to attend the wedding and giving its date, time, and place. Even in countries like India, where the concept of wedding invitations was acquired through the British, the language continues to follow western traditions.\n\nAs the bride's parents are traditionally the hosts of the wedding, the text commonly begins with the names of the bride's parents as they use them in formal social contexts, e.g., \"Mr. and Mrs. John A Smith\" or \"Dr. Mary Jones and Mr. John Smith\". The exact wording varies, but a typical phrasing runs as follows:\n\nMr. and Mrs. John A Smith\nrequest the honour of your presence\nat the wedding of their daughter\nJessica Marie\nto\nMr. Michael Francis Miller\non the first of November \nat twelve noon \nChristchurch Hall\nRichmond, Virginia\nNote the seemingly anglicised spelling 'honour'; this derives from a ruling laid down by Emily Post in the 1920s.\n\nIn the United States, the line \"request...presence\" is used when the ceremony is held in a house of worship; \"pleasure of your company\" is used when it is held elsewhere.\n\nIf the groom's parents are also hosts of the wedding, then their names may be added as well. If the parents are not the hosts of the wedding, then the host's name is substituted in the first line, or, especially if the bride and groom are themselves the hosts, it may be written in the passive voice: \"The honour of your presence is requested at the wedding of...\"\n\nFormal announcements, sent after the wedding ceremony, omit the time and sometimes the place, but usually retain the same general form.\n\nInformal invitations, appropriate to less formal weddings, are issued by word of mouth or by hand-written letter. So long as they convey the necessary practical information about the time and place, there is no set form for these invitations.\n\nCommercial wedding invitations are typically printed using one of the following methods: engraving, lithography, thermography, letterpress printing, sometimes blind embossing, compression plate process, or offset printing. More recently, many do-it-yourself brides are printing on their home computers using a laser printer or inkjet printer. For the artistically inclined, they can be handmade or written in calligraphy.\n\nHistorically, wedding invitations were hand-written unless the length of the guest list made this impractical. When mass-production was necessary, engraving was preferred over the only other widely available then option, which was a relatively poor quality of letterpress printing. Hand-written invitations, in the hosts' own handwriting, are still considered most correct whenever feasible; these invitations follow the same formal third-person form as printed ones for formal weddings, and take the form of a personal letter for less formal weddings.\n\nTissues are often provided by manufacturers to place over the printed text. Originally, the purpose of the tissue was to reduce smudging or blotting, especially on invitations poorly printed or hastily mailed before the ink was fully dried, but improved printing techniques mean they are now simply decorative. Those who know that their original purpose has been made irrelevant by dramatic improvements in printing technology usually discard them.\n\nModern invitation design follows fashion trends. Invitations are generally chosen to match the couple's personal preferences, the level of formality of the event, and any color scheme or planned theme. For example, a casual beach wedding may have light, fresh colors and beach-related graphics. A formal church wedding may have more scripty typefaces and lots of ornamentation that matches the formal nature of the event. The design of the invitation is becoming less and less traditional and more reflective of the couple's personality. Some web-based print-on-demand companies now allow couples to design or customize their own wedding invitations.\n\nThe invitation is typically a note card, folded in half, or perhaps French folded (folded twice, into quarters). Other options include a sheet of paper, a tri-fold, or a trendy pocket-fold design. The appropriate paper density depends on the design, but typically ranges from heavy paper to very stiff card stock.\n\nTraditionally, wedding invitations are mailed in double envelopes. The inner envelope may be lined, is not gummed, and fits into the outer envelope. The outer envelope is gummed for sealing and addressing. More recently, the inner envelope is often left out in the interest of saving money, paper, and postage. In some cases, a pocketfold takes the place of an inner envelope.\n\nIn countries that issue them, the envelope may be franked with love stamps. The United States postal service issues a love stamp each year specifically denominated to cover the double weight of the invitation and reply (a rate slightly less than the cost of two regular stamps).\n\nIn addition to the invitation itself, sellers promote a full panoply of optional printed materials. The ensemble may include an RSVP response card, a separate invitation to a wedding reception, and information such as maps, directions, childcare options, and hotel accommodations.\n\nWedding invitations should be sent out 6–8 weeks prior to a wedding with slightly more time being given for out of town or destination weddings. Guests should be asked to have their reply given between 3 and 2 weeks before the wedding date. Although many couples request RSVPs to be returned up to a month prior to the wedding day.\n\nThese printers also sell matching pieces intended for the day of the wedding, such as programs, menus, table cards, place cards as well as wedding favors and party favors such as napkins, coasters, cocktail stirrers and matchboxes.\n\nAs with any invitation, the sole obligation of the person receiving it is to respond, as promptly as reasonably possible, to let the hosts know whether or not he will be able to attend. Receiving a wedding invitation does not obligate the recipient either to attend the wedding or to send a gift.\n\nA proper response is written on the recipient's normal stationery, following the form of the invitation. For example, if the invitation uses formal, third-person language, then the recipient replies in formal, third-person language, saying either \"Mr. Robert Jones accepts with pleasure the kind invitation to the wedding on the first of November\", or \"Ms. Susan Brown regrets that she is unable to attend the wedding on the first of November.\"\n\nPre-printed, pre-addressed, pre-stamped response cards are frequently sent in the hope of encouraging a greater proportion of invited people to respond to the invitation. Some American etiquette experts consider the practice incorrect and ineffective at increasing response rates.\n\nIn \"The Invitations\" episode of \"Seinfeld\", George Costanza's fiancée Susan is killed by licking toxic wedding invitations that George picked out because they were inexpensive.\n\n"}
{"id": "420539", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=420539", "title": "Yungchen Lhamo", "text": "Yungchen Lhamo\n\nYungchen Lhamo is a Tibetan singer-songwriter living in New York City. She won an Australian Record Industry Association award (ARIA) for best Folk/World/Traditional album, and was then signed by Peter Gabriel's Realworld Record label.\n\nYungchen has performed with Billy Corgan (Smashing Pumpkins) and has sung duets with Natalie Merchant on \"Ophelia\". She collaborated with Annie Lennox on her album \"Ama\". Lhamo's recordings have been used in \"Seven Years in Tibet\" and many Tibetan documentaries. Yungchen has also performed at other venues such as London's Royal Festival Hall, New York City's Carnegie Hall, and Berlin's Philharmonic Hall.\n\n<div style=\"text-align:justify;\">\nYungchen Lhamo has toured extensively throughout the world, singing unaccompanied, a combination of songs of her own unique composition and traditional Buddhist chant and mantras. She has performed with artists including Annie Lennox, Peter Gabriel, Billy Corgan, Natalie Merchant, Bono, Sheryl Crow and Michael Stipe. She has performed in the Lilith Fair Festival and toured widely as a part of the WOMAD World music festivals. \n\nLhamo's name means \"Goddess of Song\" – a name given to her by a lama soon after she was born near Lhasa. Yungchen left Tibet in 1989 to make pilgrimage to Dharamsala. She was inspired to reach out to world through her music. She moved to Australia in 1993, then to New York City in 2000.\n\nLhamo's Australian debut album, \"Tibetan Prayer\", produced by John Prior, won the ARIA Music Awards for best Folk/World/Traditional Music release in 1995. She is the first Tibetan singer to win a prestigious music industry award. The success of that record led to her signing with Peter Gabriel's Real World label. Her first record for the label, \"Tibet, Tibet\", mainly features a cappella renditions of original compositions—authentic Tibetan Buddhist prayers and songs. Her next recording, \"Coming Home\", was a collaboration with producer Hector Zazou, showcasing her voice, and also featuring chanting by Tibetan monks, a wide range of mostly modern Western instruments, and the benefits of multi-track recording, enabling Lhamo's voice to be layered repeatedly.\n\nOn November 20, 22 and 24, 2007, at the Louvre Museum in Paris, Yungchen accompanied a site-specific dance work 'Walking The Line' by American choreographer Bill T. Jones. This performance, with solo percussion by Florent Jodelet, took place in one of the museum's locations (the one-hundred meter perspective) stretching from the Winged Victory of Samothrace, to the Renaissance Arch (from the Stanga Palace) in which the celebrated sculptures \"The Dying Slave\" and \"The Rebellious Slave\" (c1513) by Michelangelo are exhibited. \n\nLhamo's album \"Ama\" (which means Mother in the Tibetan language) was released in April 2006 and was produced by Iranian-American musician Jamshied Sharifi. Featured artists include Annie Lennox and Joy Askew. Yungchen's music has earned her recognition by the Province of Genoa, Italy, as a “Messenger of Peace” and she was awarded the title of “Ambassador of Culture”.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "18247035", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18247035", "title": "Zdeněk Neubauer", "text": "Zdeněk Neubauer\n\nZdeněk Neubauer (30 May 1942 – 5 July 2016) was a Czech philosopher and biologist, remarkable especially for original interpretations in science history and epistemology.\n\nBorn in Brno to family of the Brno normative legal school representative Zdeněk Neubauer (sr.), Neubauer graduated from Charles University in Prague (1965 in microbiology, biology and chemistry, 1971 in philosophy). During his activity in \"Laboratorio Internazionale di Genetica e Biofisica\" in Naples (1967–1970) he made several discoveries in genetics. In 1982 left the university because of nonconformist attitudes (both scientific and political). After that, he was mainly a philosopher (a programmer analyst by job), publishing underground. Since 1990, he has been a member of the department of philosophy and history of science at Charles University Faculty of Science.\n\n\n\n"}
