{"id": "2896519", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2896519", "title": "Basal body temperature", "text": "Basal body temperature\n\nBasal body temperature (BBT or BTP) is the lowest body temperature attained during rest (usually during sleep). It is usually estimated by a temperature measurement immediately after awakening and before any physical activity has been undertaken. This will lead to a somewhat higher value than the true BBT. \n\nIn women, ovulation causes a sustained increase of at least in BBT. Monitoring BBTs is one way of estimating the day of ovulation. The tendency of a woman to have lower temperatures before ovulation, and higher temperatures afterwards, is known as a temperature pattern. Charting this pattern may be used as a component of fertility awareness. The BBT of men is comparable to the BBT of women in their follicular phase.\n\nThe higher levels of estrogen present during the pre-ovulatory (follicular) phase of the menstrual cycle lower BBTs. The higher levels of progesterone released by the corpus luteum after ovulation raise BBTs. After ovulation, the temperature will be raised by at least , for at least 72 hours, compared to the previous six days. The rise in temperatures can most commonly be seen the day after ovulation, but this varies and BBTs can only be used to estimate ovulation within a three-day range.\n\nIf pregnancy does not occur, the disintegration of the corpus luteum causes a drop in BBTs that roughly coincides with the onset of the next menstruation. If pregnancy does occur, the corpus luteum continues to function (and maintain high BBTs) for the first trimester of the pregnancy. After the first trimester, the woman's body temperature drops to her pre-ovulatory normal as the placenta takes over functions previously performed by the corpus luteum.\n\nVery rarely, the corpus luteum may form a cyst. A corpus luteum cyst will cause BBTs to stay elevated and prevent menstruation from occurring until it resolves, which could take weeks or months.\n\nCharting of basal body temperatures is used in some methods of fertility awareness, such as the sympto-thermal method, and may be used to determine the onset of post-ovulatory infertility. When BBT alone is used to avoid a pregnancy, it is sometimes called the Temperature Rhythm method.\n\nBasal body temperature alone is most effective at preventing pregnancy if the couple abstains from intercourse from the beginning of menstruation through the third day after the basal body temperature has risen. BBTs only show when ovulation has occurred; they do not predict ovulation. Sperm typically lasts for at least three days and can survive as long as a week, making prediction of ovulation several days in advance necessary for avoiding pregnancy.\n\nThere is limited evidence about the effectiveness of fertility awareness family planning methods, some of which use basal body temperature as one component. About 24% of women who use any type of fertility awareness program become pregnant during the first year, compared to about 85% of sexually active women who are not trying to prevent a pregnancy.\n\nThe World Health Organization ranked fertility awareness methods, taken as a whole, as an \"effective\" method of preventing pregnancies. The WHO placed fertility awareness methods in the third tier of effectiveness, after \"most effective\" methods such as IUDs and \"very effective\" methods such as combined oral contraceptive pills. \n\nCouples that are trying to conceive can use BBT to determine when the opportunity for a pregnancy during this cycle has passed.\n\nInfertility due to lack of ovulation is common. BBT charts can be used to identify when and whether ovulation is taking place.\n\nRegular menstrual cycles are often taken as evidence that a woman is ovulating normally, and irregular cycles is evidence she is not. However, many women with irregular cycles do ovulate normally, and some with regular cycles are actually anovulatory or have a luteal phase defect. Records of basal body temperature can be used to accurately determine if a woman is ovulating, and if the length of the post-ovulatory (luteal) phase of her menstrual cycle is long enough to sustain a pregnancy.\n\nMost pregnancy tests are not accurate until two weeks after ovulation. Knowing an estimated date of ovulation can prevent a woman from getting false negative results due to testing too early. Also, 18 consecutive days of elevated temperatures means a woman is almost certainly pregnant.\n\nCalculating the expected due date for a pregnancy based upon the self-reported last menstrual period is less accurate than calculating it based upon either BBT or ultrasound.\n"}
{"id": "1690992", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1690992", "title": "Big Bend Water District", "text": "Big Bend Water District\n\nBig Bend Water District is a government agency that was created in 1983 to service the community of Laughlin, Nevada. It is governed by the Clark County Commission and operated by the Las Vegas Valley Water District. It is a member agency of the Southern Nevada Water Authority.\n\nThe district includes the Big Bend Water Treatment Facility which treats and supplies clean water to the 7,500 residents of Laughlin and the tourists who visit its casinos. The plant has a treatment capacity of per day and can store up to of water for later use.\n\n"}
{"id": "54550537", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54550537", "title": "Bureau of Child and Animal Protection", "text": "Bureau of Child and Animal Protection\n\nThe \"State Bureau of Child and Animal Protection\" was the name assigned to Child Protective Services in a number of states during the early 20th century. This was all part of \"The Humane Movement\" documented by the Descriptive Survey by the same name. The marriage of Child and Animal Protections was documented in the same survey showing Colorado as a champion of this philosophy \n\nWe know of at least 3 states that used this name: Colorado, Montana and Texas. \n\nReferences to the statutes creating the Colorado Bureau of Child and Animal Protection can be found in \"The Revised Statutes of Colorado, 1908\"\n\nThe Montana Bureau of Child and Animal Protection is the best documented by far. Starting with the , followed by 5 biannual reports for the years: , , , and .\n\nThe Texas Bureau of Child and Animal Protection was created by the Texas legislature in 1913.\n"}
{"id": "44455661", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44455661", "title": "Cataract-microcornea syndrome", "text": "Cataract-microcornea syndrome\n\nThe cataract-microcornea syndrome is the association of congenital cataract and microcornea.\n\nMutations in ABCA3 were found to be associated to this syndrome.\n"}
{"id": "37486537", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37486537", "title": "Causes of Parkinson's disease", "text": "Causes of Parkinson's disease\n\nParkinson's disease (PD) is a degenerative disorder of the central nervous system. Most people with PD have idiopathic Parkinson's disease (having no specific known cause). A small proportion of cases, however, can be attributed to known genetic factors. Other factors such as environmental toxins, herbicides, pesticides, and fungicides, have been associated with the risk of developing PD, but no causal relationships have been proven.\n\nTraditionally, PD has been considered a non-genetic disorder. However, around 15% of individuals with PD have a first-degree relative who has the disease. At least 5% -15% of cases are known to occur because of a mutation in one of several specific genes, transmitted in either an autosomal-dominant or autosomal-recessive pattern\n\nMutations in specific genes have been conclusively shown to cause PD. Genes which have been implicated in autosomal-dominant PD include PARK1 and PARK4, PARK5, PARK8, PARK11 and GIGYF2 and PARK13 which code for alpha-synuclein(SNCA), UCHL1, leucine-rich repeat kinase 2 (LRRK2 or dardarin) (LRRK2 and Htra2 respectively Genes such as PARK2, PARK6, PARK7 and PARK9 which code for parkin (PRKN), PTEN-induced putative kinase 1 (PINK1), DJ-1 and ATP13A2 respectively have been implicated in the development of autosomal-recessive PD \nFurthermore, mutations in genes including those that code for SNCA, LRRK2 and glucocerebrosidase (GBA) have been found to be risk factors for sporadic PD In most cases, people with these mutations will develop PD. With the exception of LRRK2, however, they account for only a small minority of cases of PD. The most extensively studied PD-related genes are SNCA and LRRK2.\n\nThe role of the SNCA gene is significant in PD because the alpha-synuclein protein is the main component of Lewy bodies, which appear as a primary biomarker in the disease. Missense mutations of the gene (in which a single nucleotide is changed), and duplications and triplications of the locus containing it have been found in different groups with familial PD. Level of alpha-synuclein expression correlates with disease onset and progression, with SNCA gene triplication advancing earlier and faster than duplication. Missense mutations in SNCA are rare. On the other hand, multiplications of the SNCA locus account for around 2% of familial cases. Multiplications have been found in asymptomatic carriers, which indicate that penetrance is incomplete or age-dependent.\n\nThe LRRK2 gene (PARK8) encodes for a protein called dardarin. The name dardarin was taken from a Basque word for tremor, because this gene was first identified in families from England and the north of Spain. A significant number of autosomal-dominant Parkinson's disease cases are associated with mutations in the LRRK2 gene Mutations in LRRK2 are the most common known cause of familial and sporadic PD, accounting for approximately 5% of individuals with a family history of the disease and 3% of sporadic cases. There are many different mutations described in LRRK2, however unequivocal proof of causation only exists for a small number. Mutations in PINK1, PRKN, and DJ-1 may cause mitochondrial dysfunction, an element of both idiopathic and genetic PD. Of related interest are mutations in the progranulin gene that have been found to cause corticobasal degeneration seen in dementia. This could be relevant in PD cases associated with dementia.\n\nMutations in GBA are known to cause Gaucher's disease. Genome-wide association studies, which search for mutated alleles with low penetrance in sporadic cases, have now yielded many positive results. Mendelian genetics are not strictly observed in GBA mutations found in inherited parkinsonism. Incidentally, both gain-of-function and loss-of-function GBA mutations are proposed to contribute to parkinsonism through effects such as increased alpha-synuclein levels. In patients with Parkinson’s disease, the OR for carrying a GBA mutation was 5·43 (95% CI 3·89–7·57), confirming that mutations in this gene are a common risk factor for Parkinson’s disease.\n\nExposure to pesticides, metals, solvents, and other toxicants has been studied as a factor in the development of Parkinson's disease. No definitive causal relationship has yet been established. Recent studies also reveal that individuals that sustain mild head injuries (concussions) also have an increased risk of acquiring the disease. As discussed below, exercise and caffeine consumption are known to help decrease the risks of acquisition.\n\nEvidence from epidemiological, animal, and in vitro studies suggests that exposure to pesticides increases the risk for Parkinson's disease. One meta-analysis found a risk ratio of 1.6 for ever being exposed to a pesticide, with herbicides and insecticides showing the most risk. Rural living, well-drinking, and farming were also associated with Parkinson's, which may be partly explained by pesticide exposure. Organochlorine pesticides (which include DDT) have received the most attention, with several studies reporting that exposure to such pesticides is associated with a doubling of risk for Parkinson's.\n\nLead, which was used in gasoline until 1995 and paint until 1978, is known to damage the nervous system in various ways. A few studies have found that people with high levels of lead in their body had twice the risk of Parkinson's disease. Epidemiological studies on lead, however, have found little evidence for a link with Parkinson's. Iron has been implicated in the etiology of Parkinson's disease, but there is no strong evidence that environmental exposure to it is associated with Parkinson's.\n\nA study in 2018 notes that \"Even a mild head injury, commonly called a concussion, makes veterans more likely to get Parkinson's disease later on in life\" with this being \"the same type of injury suffered by many Americans on the sports field or in a motor vehicle crash each year.\" An earlier study, published in 2012, suggests that playing in the NFL triples the risk of Alzheimer's and Parkinson's disease.\n\nWhile many environmental factors may exacerbate Parkinson's Disease, exercise is considered to be one of the main protective factors for neurodegenerative disorders including Parkinson disease. The types of exercise interventions that have been studied can be categorized as either aerobic or goal-based. Aerobic exercise includes physical activity that increases the heart rate. Aerobic exercise is beneficial to the overall brain through mechanisms that promote neuroplasticity, or the rewiring of the brain circuitry. Goal-based exercises are often developed with the guidance of a physical therapist to use movement to improve motor task performance and enhance motor learning. While exercise has consistently been shown to be beneficial, the optimal interventional benefit is still being researched.\n\nStudies have been done with groups of people where individuals (smokers and nonsmokers) with different rates of caffeine consumption were monitored for their susceptibility to PD. The results of these findings indicated that higher coffee/caffeine intake is associated with a significantly lower incidence of PD and that this effect appeared to be independent of smoking.\n\nThe CYP2D6 gene is primarily expressed in the liver and is responsible for the enzyme cytochrome P450 2D6. A study showed that those who had a mutation of this gene and were exposed to pesticides were twice as likely to develop Parkinson's Disease; those that had the mutation and were not exposed to pesticides were not found to be at an increased risk of developing PD; the pesticides only had a \"modest effect\" for those without the mutation of the gene.\n"}
{"id": "12774563", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12774563", "title": "Cerebral creatine deficiency", "text": "Cerebral creatine deficiency\n\nCerebral creatine deficiencies (CCD) are a small group of inherited disorders that result from defects in creatine biosynthesis and utilization. Commonly affected tissues include the brain and muscles. There are three distinct CCDs. The most common is creatine transporter defect (CTD), an X-linked disorder caused by pathogenic variants in \"SLC6A8\". The main symptoms of CTD are intellectual disability and developmental delay, and these are caused by a lack of creatine in the brain, due to the defective transporter. There are also two enzymatic defects of creatine biosynthesis, (AGAT deficiency), caused by variants in \"GATM\" and guanidinoacetate methyltransferase deficiency (GAMT deficiency), caused by variants in \"GAMT\". The single enzyme defects are both inherited in an autosomal recessive manner.\n\nCreatine is synthesized in the kidney and liver, by a two step enzymatic process. In the first step, glycine and arginine are combined by to form guanidinoacetate. This step also results in the production of ornithine. Creatine is produced by the enzyme guanidinoacetate methyltransferase. After production in the liver and kidneys, creatine is transported to organs and tissues with high energy demands, most commonly the brain and skeletal muscles. In addition to endogenous production, creatine can be obtained from dietary sources or supplementation.\n\nThe clinical findings in all three CCDs result from the consequences of decreased levels of creatine in tissues where it is required. The two tissues with the highest demands for creatine are the brain and skeletal muscles. Muscular findings usually include weakness and decreased endurance. Other clinical findings include seizures, intellectual disability and developmental delay. Most affected individuals appear normal at birth, with clinical findings becoming apparent during the first year of life, and progressing.\n\nCreatine is synthesized primarily in the liver and kidneys via a two-step enzymatic process. Defects in either of these two enzymes can cause a CCD. In order to pass the blood brain barrier, creatine requires a specialized transporter, encoded for by \"SLC6A8\". A defect in this transporter is responsible for the third CCD.\n"}
{"id": "6890925", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6890925", "title": "Chronic atrophic rhinitis", "text": "Chronic atrophic rhinitis\n\nChronic atrophic rhinitis is a chronic inflammation of nose characterised by atrophy of nasal mucosa, including the glands, turbinate bones and the nerve elements supplying the nose. Chronic atrophic rhinitis may be primary and secondary. Special forms of chronic atrophic rhinitis are rhinitis sicca anterior and ozaena.\n\n\nPermanent loss of smell and impairment of taste may also be a result of this disease, even after the symptoms are cured.\n\nCauses can be remembered by mnemonic HERNIA:\n\nSpecific infections, such as syphilis, lupus, leprosy and rhinoscleroma, may cause destruction of the nasal structures leading to atrophic changes. Atrophic rhinitis can also result from long-standing purulent sinusitis or radiotherapy of the nose, or as a complication of surgery of the turbinates. The United Kingdom National Health Service has stated that \"Most cases of atrophic rhinitis in the UK occur when the turbinates are damaged or removed during surgery\". Some authors refer to as Atrophic rhinitis secondary to sinus surgery as the empty nose syndrome.\n\nExtreme deviation of nasal septum may be accompanied by atrophic rhinitis on the wider side.\n\nTreatment of atrophic rhinitis can be either medical or surgical.\n\nMedical measures include:\n\nSurgical interventions include:\n\nThis disorder was known since the time of ancient Egypt, almost 4,000 years ago, and descriptions of it are found in the historical medical papyri. In the Edwin Smith Papyrus (1700 BC) it was prescribed a treatment based on wine and breast milk to cure this disease. The ancient Greek and Indian civilizations were aware of atrophic rhinitis.\n\n"}
{"id": "35297146", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35297146", "title": "Chronic disease in Northern Ontario", "text": "Chronic disease in Northern Ontario\n\nChronic disease in Northern Ontario is a population health problem. The population in Northern Ontario experiences worse outcomes on a number of important health indicators, including higher rates of chronic disease compared to the population in the rest of Ontario (Romanow, 2002).\n\nNorthern Ontario is over 800,000 square kilometers, covering nearly 90% of the area of Ontario. Its population of close to 800,000 represents only 6% of the total population for the province. This large land area and relatively small population results in a density of approximately one person per square kilometre, compared to 115 persons per square kilometre in Southern Ontario. Northern Ontario's rural population comprises more than 30% of the total Northern population. In Southern Ontario, only 11% of the population lives in rural area. Over 50% of the North's population live in the five biggest cities of Thunder Bay, Sault Ste. Marie, Timmins, Greater Sudbury, and North Bay. With mining, forestry and tourism as the major local industries, there are peaks and troughs in the economy, and unemployment rates are usually higher than in the remainder of Ontario (MNDM, 2011).\n\nThe estimated area of Local Health Integration Network (LHIN) 13 is 400,000 square kilometres or approximately 40% of Ontario, with a population of 551,691. In LHIN 13, 17% of the population is 65 years of age or older, which is significantly higher than the provincial average of 14%. LHIN 13 is diverse with 24% of the population Francophone and 10% of the population First Nations (North East LHIN, 2009). The estimated area of LHIN 14 is 470,000 square kilometers or approximately 47% of Ontario, with a population of 234,599. In LHIN 14, 14.3% of the population is 65 years of age or older. LHIN 14 is diverse with 3.5% of the population Francophone and 19.8% First Nations (North West LHIN, 2009).\n\nAccording to the World Health Organization, chronic diseases are defined as diseases of long duration which generally show slow progression (WHO, 2012a). Examples of chronic diseases are cardiovascular disease, respiratory disease, stroke, cancer, and diabetes. The main risk factors associated with chronic diseases are tobacco and alcohol use, physical inactivity and unhealthy diets (WHO, 2011). Almost 80% of Ontarians over the age of 45 have a chronic condition, and treatment for these diseases amount to 55% of Ontario's total health costs (MOHLTC, 2007). In Northern Ontario the rates of chronic diseases are higher than the average provincial rates (MOHLTC, 2011).\n\nIn rural and Northern Ontario, life expectancy is less than the provincial average; disability rates are higher in smaller communities; rates for accidents, poisoning and violence are also higher in smaller communities; and people living in remote northern communities are the least healthy and have the lowest life and disability-free life expectancies (North East LHIN, 2009; North West LHIN, 2009). On average, Northern communities have a higher infant mortality rate than Southern communities, reflecting a lower overall health status (MOHLTC, 2011; Appendix B). The Northern Ontario population suffers from higher rates of a number of chronic diseases such as cardiovascular disease, respiratory disease, stroke, cancer and diabetes (North East LHIN, 2009; North West LHIN, 2009). There is a higher proportion of the population that are overweight or obese and a higher proportion of the population that are heavy drinkers and smokers (North East LHIN, 2009; North West LHIN, 2009).\n\nAnalysis of the burden of chronic disease has pointed to the importance of risk factors, such as being overweight, smoking, alcohol, and poor diet. These are indeed potent causes of chronic disease, however considering the causes of chronic disease entails a richer understanding of the determinants of health. There is a need to examine the causes of the causes: the social conditions that give rise to high risk behaviours of chronic diseases. A social determinants lens is crucial when addressing chronic diseases in Northern Ontario (Marmot, 2005).\n\nThe determinants of health (listed in Appendix A) are defined as the diverse set of factors that affect health and pertain to the conditions in which people are born, grow, live, work, and age (WHO, 2012b). The Canadian Institute for Advanced Research estimates that 75% of the health of the population is determined by factors outside of the health care system (Mackie, 2012). The determinants of health (DOH) contribute to and exacerbate the worse health outcomes in the LHIN 13 and 14 population. For example, in Northern Ontario, there are higher rates of unemployment and lower rates of education compared to the rest of Ontario (North East LHIN, 2009; North West LHIN, 2009). Low education and unemployment, which are DOH in themselves, are also obvious risk factors for poverty, which is a very significant DOH. This exemplifies the complexity of the problem, as the DOH can interact and have synergistic effects. Furthermore, problems in access to health services in Northern Ontario quite often stem from distance and shortages of health human resources (Romanow, 2002). On average there is less than one physician per 1,000 people in rural areas, compared to two or more physicians per 1,000 people in larger urban centres (ICES, 2006).\n\nDemographic and other factors aggravate this population health problem. Northern Ontario has 106 of the 134 Aboriginal communities in Ontario (MNDM, 2011). The health status of Aboriginal people is overall worse than other Ontarians on most measures, including life expectancy, infant mortality, cardiovascular disease prevalence, diabetes prevalence and suicides (Health Council of Canada, 2005). Aboriginal populations also lag behind in almost all DOH (Health Council of Canada, 2005). For example, social support networks are limited for many Aboriginal people due to the residential school act and its legacy. Many Aboriginal people have been unable to establish effective relationships with families and friends as a result of being taken away at an early age from their communities. The usual social bonds that occur with family members, friends and community members were severely and permanently damaged, leaving this population particularly vulnerable (Health Council of Canada, 2005).\n\nThere are numerous policies and strategies that have been implemented to address chronic disease prevention and management in Northern Ontario. The existing policies and strategies range from cardiovascular disease prevention programs (for example Heart Health Ontario) to diabetes education programs (for example the Northern Diabetes Health Network) (MOHLTC, 2011). Although it is good that chronic disease prevention and management is not being neglected in Northern Ontario, there is some concern about the effectiveness and efficiency of all these different initiatives. The Centre for Rural and Northern Health Research reported that although health care organizations and relevant stakeholders were progressing towards implementing chronic disease management strategies, there was limited integration of programs at the community and regional levels. It was reported that there was a lack of communication impacting the coordination of services, to the extent that organizations were operating within separate silos, resulting in a lack of collaboration between the various organizations. There appears to be a similar situation in the North East LHIN (Minore, Hill & Perry, 2009).\n\nPrevention and management of chronic disease requires a comprehensive set of initiatives. Below will outline a number of options, using the applicable determinants of health as a framework, that can help make a difference in addressing chronic disease in Northern Ontario (LHINs 13 and 14).\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2312311", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2312311", "title": "Clinical trials publication", "text": "Clinical trials publication\n\nClinical trials publication is having research published in a peer reviewed journal following clinical trials. Most investigators will want to have such a publication but the nature of clinical trials may create special considerations and obstacles.\n\nMost agreements for a clinical trial between sponsor and investigator grants that the sponsor may control publication of results by requesting publication delays, deleting portions of a manuscript, or placing limits on the types of issues that can be discussed. These controls serve to prevent disclosure of information that would compromise the sponsor's ability to patent inventions; to prevent disclosure of confidential information shared with investigator; and to coordinate the disclosure of results when a clinical trial is being conducted at multiple sites. These are legitimate business concerns, but may not restrict the investigator from freely publishing research results in the end of the study and approval process.\n\nDue to repeated accusations and findings that some clinical trials conducted or funded by pharmaceutical companies may report only positive results for the preferred medication, the industry has been looked at much more closely by independent groups and government agencies. Issues and responses have included guidelines to limit financial inducements to researchers, journal articles presented as academic research actually being 'ghost-written' by pharmaceutical companies, litigation to deter or suppress publication of negative findings, concerns, or cheaper alternatives. and laws in the United States requiring advanced clinical trials to be registered on a public government website.\n\n"}
{"id": "505326", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=505326", "title": "Counseling psychology", "text": "Counseling psychology\n\nCounseling psychology is a psychological specialty that encompasses research and applied work in several broad domains: counseling process and outcome; supervision and training; career development and counseling; and prevention and health. Some unifying themes among counseling psychologists include a focus on assets and strengths, person–environment interactions, educational and career development, brief interactions, and a focus on intact personalities.\n\nThe term \"counselling\" is of American origin, coined by Rogers, who, lacking a medical qualification was prevented from calling his work psychotherapy. In the U.S., counselling psychology, like many modern psychology specialties, started as a result of World War II. During the war, the U.S. military had a strong need for vocational placement and training. In the 1940s and 1950s, the Veterans Administration created a specialty called \"counseling psychology\", and Division 17 (now known as the Society for Counseling Psychology) of the APA was formed. The Society of Counseling Psychology unites psychologists, students and professionals who are dedicated to promote education and training, practice, scientific investigation, diversity and public interest in the field of professional psychology. This fostered interest in counselor training, and the creation of the first few counseling psychology PhD programs. The first counseling psychology PhD programs were at the University of Minnesota; Ohio State University; University of Maryland, College Park; University of Missouri; Teachers College, Columbia University; and University of Texas at Austin.\n\nIn recent decades, counseling psychology as a profession has expanded and is now represented in numerous countries around the world. Books describing the present international state of the field include the \"Handbook of Counseling and Psychotherapy in an International Context\"; the \"International Handbook of Cross-Cultural Counseling\"; and \"Counseling Around the World: An International Handbook\". Taken together these volumes trace the global history of the field, explore divergent philosophical assumptions, counseling theories, processes, and trends in different countries, and review a variety of global counselor education programs. Moreover, traditional and indigenous treatment and healing methods that may predate modern counseling methods by hundreds of years remain of significance in many non-Western and Western countries.\n\nCounseling psychologists are employed in a variety of settings depending on the services they provide and the client populations they serve. Some are employed in colleges and universities as teachers, supervisors, researchers, and service providers. Others are employed in independent practice providing counseling, psychotherapy, assessment, and consultation services to individuals, couples/families, groups, and organizations. Additional settings in which counseling psychologists practice include community mental health centers, Veterans Administration medical centers and other facilities, family services, health maintenance organizations, rehabilitation agencies, business and industrial organizations and consulting within firms.\n\nThe amount of training required for psychologists differs based on the country in which they are practicing. Typically, a psychologist completes an Undergraduate Degree followed by 5-6 years of further study and/or training, leading to the Ph.D. While both psychologists and psychiatrists offer counselling, psychiatrists must possess a medical degree and thus are able to prescribe medication where psychologists are not.\n\nIn 2017, the median salary for counseling psychologists in the United States was US$88,395.\n\nCounseling psychologists are interested in answering a variety of research questions about counseling process and outcome. Counseling \"process\" refers to how or why counseling happens and progresses. Counseling \"outcome\" addresses whether or not counseling is effective, under what conditions it is effective, and what outcomes are considered effective—such as symptom reduction, behavior change, or quality of life improvement. Topics commonly explored in the study of counseling process and outcome include therapist variables, client variables, the counseling or therapeutic relationship, cultural variables, process and outcome measurement, mechanisms of change, and process and outcome research methods. Classic approaches appeared early in the US in the field of humanistic psychology by Carl Rogers who identified the mission of counseling interview as \"to permit deeper expression that the client would ordinarily allow himself\"\n\nTherapist variables include characteristics of a counselor or psychotherapist, as well as therapist technique, behavior, theoretical orientation and training. In terms of therapist behavior, technique and theoretical orientation, research on adherence to therapy models has found that adherence to a particular model of therapy can be helpful, detrimental, or neutral in terms of impact on outcome.\n\nA recent meta-analysis of research on training and experience suggests that experience level is only slightly related to accuracy in clinical judgment. Higher therapist experience has been found to be related to less anxiety, but also less focus. This suggests that there is still work to be done in terms of training clinicians and measuring successful training.\n\nClient characteristics such as help-seeking attitudes and attachment style have been found to be related to client use of counseling, as well as expectations and outcome. Stigma against mental illness can keep people from acknowledging problems and seeking help. Public stigma has been found to be related to self-stigma, attitudes towards counseling, and willingness to seek help.\n\nIn terms of attachment style, clients with avoidance styles have been found to perceive greater risks and fewer benefits to counseling, and are less likely to seek professional help, than securely attached clients. Those with anxious attachment styles perceive greater benefits as well as risks to counseling. Educating clients about expectations of counseling can improve client satisfaction, treatment duration and outcomes, and is an efficient and cost-effective intervention.\n\nThe relationship between a counselor and client is the feelings and attitudes that a client and therapist have towards one another, and the manner in which those feelings and attitudes are expressed. Some theorists have suggested that the relationship may be thought of in three parts: transference and countertransference, working alliance, and the real—or personal—relationship. Other theorists argue that the concepts of transference and countertransference are outdated and inadequate.\n\nTransference can be described as the client's distorted perceptions of the therapist. This can have a great effect on the therapeutic relationship. For instance, the therapist may have a facial feature that reminds the client of their parent. Because of this association, if the client has significant negative or positive feelings toward their parent, they may project these feelings onto the therapist. This can affect the therapeutic relationship in a few ways. For example, if the client has a very strong bond with their parent, they may see the therapist as a father or mother figure and have a strong connection with the therapist. This can be problematic because as a therapist, it is not ethical to have a more than \"professional\" relationship with a client. It can also be a good thing, because the client may open up greatly to the therapist. In another way, if the client has a very negative relationship with their parent, the client may feel negative feelings toward the therapist. This can then affect the therapeutic relationship as well. For example, the client may have trouble opening up to the therapist because he or she lacks trust in their parent (projecting these feelings of distrust onto the therapist).\n\nAnother theory about the function of the counseling relationship is known as the secure-base hypothesis, which is related to attachment theory. This hypothesis proposes that the counselor acts as a secure base from which clients can explore and then check in with. Secure attachment to one's counselor and secure attachment in general have been found to be related to client exploration. Insecure attachment styles have been found to be related to less session depth than securely attached clients.\n\nCounseling psychologists are interested in how culture relates to help-seeking and counseling process and outcome. Standard surveys exploring the nature of counselling across cultures and various ethnic groups include Counseling Across Cultures by Paul B. Pedersen, Juris G. Draguns, Walter J. Lonner and Joseph E. Trimble, Handbook of Multicultural Counseling by Joseph G. Ponterotto, J. Manueal Casas, Lisa A. Suzuki and Charlene M. Alexander and Handbook of Culture, Therapy, and Healing by Uwe P. Gielen, Jefferson M. Fish and Juris G. Draguns. Janet E. Helms' racial identity model can be useful for understanding how the relationship and counseling process might be affected by the client's and counselor's racial identity. Recent research suggests that clients who are Black are at risk for experiencing racial micro-aggression from counselors who are White.\n\nEfficacy for working with clients who are lesbians, gay men, or bisexual might be related to therapist demographics, gender, sexual identity development, sexual orientation, and professional experience. Clients who have multiple oppressed identities might be especially at-risk for experiencing unhelpful situations with counselors, so counselors might need help with gaining expertise for working with clients who are transgender, lesbian, gay, bisexual, or transgender people of color, and other oppressed populations.\n\nGender role socialization can also present issues for clients and counselors. Implications for practice include being aware of stereotypes and biases about male and female identity, roles and behavior such as emotional expression. The APA guidelines for multicultural competence outline expectations for taking culture into account in practice and research.\n\nPerceptions on ethical behaviors vary depending upon geographical location, but ethical mandates are similar throughout the global community. Ethical standards are created to help practitioners, clients and the community avoid any possible harm or potential for harm. The standard ethical behaviors are centered on \"doing no harm\" and preventing harm.\n\nCounselors cannot share any confidential information that is obtained through the counseling process without specific written consent by the client or legal guardian except to prevent clear, imminent danger to the client or others, or when required to do so by a court order. Insurance companies or government programs will also be notified of certain information about your diagnosis and treatment to determine if your care is covered. Those companies and government programs are bound by HIPAA to keep that information strictly confidential.\n\nCounselors are held to a higher standard that most professionals because of the intimacy of their therapeutic delivery. Counselors are not only to avoid fraternizing with their clients. They should avoid dual relationships, and never engage in sexual relationships.\n\nCounselors are to avoid receiving gifts, favors, or trade for therapy. In some communities, it may be avoidable given the economic standing of that community. In cases of children, children and the mentally handicapped, they may feel personally rejected if an offering is something such as a \"cookie\". As counselors, a judgement call must be made, but in a majority of cases, avoiding gifts, favors, and trade can be maintained.\n\nThe National Board for Certified Counselors states that counselors \"shall discuss important considerations to avoid exploitation before entering into a non-counseling relationship with a former client. Important considerations to be discussed include amount of time since counseling service termination, duration of counseling, nature and circumstances of client's counseling, the likelihood that the client will want to resume counseling at some time in the future; circumstances of service termination and possible negative effects or outcomes.\"\n\nCounseling outcome measures might look at a general overview of symptoms, symptoms of specific disorders, or positive outcomes, such as subjective well-being or quality of life. The Outcome Questionnaire-45 is a 45-item self-report measure of psychological distress. An example of disorder-specific measure is the Beck Depression Inventory. The Quality of Life Inventory is a 17-item self-report life satisfaction measure.\n\nResearch about the counseling process and outcome uses a variety of research methodologies to answer questions about if, how, and why counseling works. Quantitative methods include randomly controlled clinical trials, correlation studies over the course of counseling, or laboratory studies about specific counseling process and outcome variables. Qualitative research methods can involve conducting, transcribing and coding interviews; transcribing and/or coding therapy sessions; or fine-grain analysis of single counseling sessions or counseling cases.\n\nCounseling psychologists are trained in graduate programs. Almost all programs grant a PhD, but a few grant a MCouns, MEd, MA, PsyD or EdD. Most doctoral programs take 5–6 years to complete. Graduate work in counseling psychology includes coursework in general psychology and statistics, counseling practice, and research. Students must complete an original dissertation at the end of their graduate training. Students must also complete a one-year full-time internship at an accredited site before earning their doctorate. In order to be licensed to practice, counseling psychologists must gain clinical experience under supervision, and pass a standardized exam.\n\nIn Australia, counseling psychology programs are accredited by the Australia Psychological Society (APS). To become licensed as a counseling psychologist, one must meet the criteria for a psychologist's licence: 3 years studying bachelor's degree in Psychology, 4th year Honours degree or Postgraduate Diploma in Psychology, and two-year full-time supervised practice plus 80 hours of professional development.\nTo become a counseling psychologist one must complete a two-year master's degree after obtaining a four-year degree in psychology. There are other avenues available, such as a two year supervised training program after Honours (i.e. 4+2 pathway), or one year of postgraduate coursework and practical placements followed by a one year supervised training program (i.e. 5+1 pathway). A substantial component of this master's degree is dedicated to individual psychotherapy, family and couples therapy, group therapy, developmental theory and psychopathology.\n\nCounseling psychology includes the study and practice of counselor training and counselor supervision. As researchers, counseling psychologists may investigate what makes training and supervision effective. As practitioners, counseling psychologists may supervise and train a variety of clinicians. Counselor training tends to occur in formal classes and training programs. Part of counselor training may involve counseling clients under the supervision of a licensed clinician. Supervision can also occur between licensed clinicians, as a way to improve clinicians' quality of work and competence with various types of counseling clients.\n\nAs the field of counseling psychology formed in the mid-20th century, initial training models included Robert Carkuff's human relations training model, Norman Kagan's Interpersonal Process Recall, and Allen Ivey's microcounseling skills. Modern training models include Gerard Egan's skilled helper model, and Clara E. Hill's three-stage model (exploration, insight, and action). A recent analysis of studies on counselor training found that modeling, instruction, and feedback are common to most training models, and seem to have medium to large effects on trainees.\n\nLike the models of how clients and therapists interact, there are also models of the interactions between therapists and their supervisors. Edward S. Bordin proposed a model of supervision working alliance similar to his model of therapeutic working alliance. The Integrated Development Model considers the level of a client's motivation/anxiety, autonomy, and self and other awareness. The Systems Approach to Supervision views the relationship between supervisor and supervised as most important, in addition to characteristics of the supervisor's personal characteristics, counseling clients, training setting, as well as the tasks and functions of supervision. The Critical Events in Supervision model focuses on important moments that occur between the supervisor and supervised.\n\nProblems can arise in supervision and training. First, supervisors are liable for malpractice. Also, questions have arisen as far as a supervisor's need for formal training to be a competent supervisor. Recent research suggests that conflicting, multiple relationships can occur between supervisors and clients, such as that of the client, instructor, and clinical supervisor. The occurrence of racial micro-aggression against Black clients suggests potential problems with racial bias in supervision. In general, conflicts between a counselor and his or her own supervisor can arise when supervisors demonstrate disrespect, lack of support, and blaming.\n\nThere are several types of theories of vocational choice and development. These types include trait and factor theories, social cognitive theories, and developmental theories. Two examples of trait and factor theories, also known as person–environment fit, are Holland's theory and the Theory of Work Adjustment.\n\nJohn Holland hypothesized six vocational personality/interest types and six work environment types: realistic, investigative, artistic, social, enterprising, and conventional. When a person's vocational interests match his or her work environment types, this is considered congruence. Congruence has been found to predict occupation and college major.\n\nThe Theory of Work Adjustment (TWA), as developed by René Dawis and Lloyd Lofquist, hypothesizes that the correspondence between a worker's needs and the reinforced systems predicts job satisfaction, and that the correspondence between a worker's skills and a job's skill requirements predicts job satisfaction. Job satisfaction and personal satisfaction together should determine how long one remains at a job. When there is a discrepancy between a worker's needs or skills and the job's needs or skills, then change needs to occur either in the worker or the job environment.\n\nSocial Cognitive Career Theory (SCCT) has been proposed by Robert D. Lent, Steven D. Brown and Gail Hackett. The theory takes Albert Bandura's work on self-efficacy and expands it to interest development, choice making, and performance. Person variables in SCCT include self-efficacy beliefs, outcome expectations and personal goals. The model also includes demographics, ability, values, and environment. Efficacy and outcome expectations are theorized to interrelate and influence interest development, which in turn influences choice of goals, and then actions. Environmental supports and barriers also affect goals and actions. Actions lead to performance and choice stability over time.\n\nCareer development theories propose vocational models that include changes throughout the lifespan. Donald Super's model proposes a lifelong five-stage career development process. The stages are growth, exploration, establishment, maintenance, and disengagement. Throughout life, people have many roles that may differ in terms of importance and meaning. Super also theorized that career development is an implementation of self-concept. Gottfredson also proposed a cognitive career decision-making process that develops through the lifespan. The initial stage of career development is hypothesized to be the development of self-image in childhood, as the range of possible roles narrows using criteria such as sex-type, social class, and prestige. During and after adolescence, people take abstract concepts into consideration, such as interests.\n\nCareer counseling may include provision of occupational information, modeling skills, written exercises, and exploration of career goals and plans. Career counseling can also involve the use of personality or career interest assessments, such as the Myers-Briggs Type Indicator, which is based on Carl Jung's theory of psychological type, or the Strong Interest Inventory, which makes use of Holland's theory. Assessments of skills, abilities, and values are also commonly assessed in career counseling.\n\nIn the United States, the premier scholarly journals of the profession are the \"Journal of Counseling Psychology\" and \"The Counseling Psychologist\".\n\nIn Australia, counseling psychology articles are published in the counseling psychology section of the \"Australian Psychologist\".\n\nIn Europe, the scholarly journals of the profession include the \"European Journal of Counselling Psychology\" (under the auspices of the European Association of Counselling Psychology) and the \"Counselling Psychology Review\" (under the auspices of the British Psychological Society). \"Counselling Psychology Quarterly\" is an international interdisciplinary publication of Routledge (part of the Taylor & Francis Group).\n\n"}
{"id": "1004470", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1004470", "title": "Dhanvantari", "text": "Dhanvantari\n\nDhanvantari is the Hindu god of medicine and an avatar of Lord Vishnu. He appears in the \"Puranas\" as the god of Ayurveda. Though he is one of the Yakshas, who brought nectar of immortality from Samudramanthan. It is common practice in Hinduism for worshipers to pray to Dhanvantari seeking his blessings for sound health for themselves and/or others, especially on Dhanteras or Dhanwantari Trayodashi. The Indian Government has declared that Dhanwantari Trayodashii Kumara every year would be celebrated as \"National Ayurveda Day\".\n\n\"Ramayana Balakand\" and \"Bhagavata Purana\" state that Dhanvantari emerged from the Ocean of Milk and appeared with the pot of amrita (elixer for immortality) during the story of the \"Samudra (or) Sagara Mathana\" whilst the ocean was being churned by the Devas and Asuras, using the Mandara mountain and the serpent Vasuki. The pot of Amrita was snatched by the Asuras, and after this event another avatar, Mohini, appears and takes the nectar back from the Asuras. It is also believed that Dhanvantari promulgated the practise of Ayurveda.Of special mention here is the treatise of \"Dhanvantari-Nighantu\", which completely elucidates Dhanvantari's medicinal plants.\n\nAccording to the ancient Sanskrit work \"Vishnudharamottara\", Dhanvantari is a handsome individual and should usually be depicted with four hands, with one of them carrying Amrita, the ambrosia of the gods. Dhanvantari is depicted as Vishnu with four hands, holding Shankha, Chakra, Jalauka (leech) and a pot containing rejuvenating nectar called \"amrita\". He is often shown with a leech in his hand rather than the scriptures.\n\nHis birthday is celebrated by the practitioners of Ayurveda every year, on Dhanteras, two days before Diwali, the Hindu festival of lights. It is also celebrated as National Ayurveda Day in India. The National Ayurveda Day celebrations started since 2016.\n\nThere are a few dedicated temples to Dhanvantari in South India especially in Kerala and Tamil Nadu, where ayurveda is highly practised and patronised. The Dhanvatari temple in Thottuva in Kerala is a particularly famous temple, where Lord Dhanvantari's idol is almost six feet tall and facing east. On the right hand the lord holds Amrith and with the left hand the lord holds Atta, Shanku and Chakra. The 'Ekadasi' day celebration, which falls on the same day as the 'Guruvayur Ekadasi' is of special significance.\n\nIn Tamil Nadu, in the courtyard of Sri Ranganathaswamy Temple (Srirangam), there is a Dhanvantari shrine where daily worship of the deity is performed. In front of this temple there is an engraved stone believed to be from the 12th century. According to the writings on the stone, Garuda Vahana Bhattar, a great ayurvedic physician, established the statue inside the temple. A \"prasada\" or \"theertham\", a herbal decoction, is given to the visitors. The shrine is the oldest Dhanvantari shrine in the state. Another Dhanvantari shrine is found in the second precinct of Varadaraja Perumal Temple in Kanchipuram. \n\nDhanvanthari temples in Kerala, Tamil Nadu and Puducherry include:\n\nIn Varanaseya Sanskrit Vishwavidyalaya, Varanasi, Uttar Pradesh state, one statue of Dhanvantari is present in the University museum. Two statues are at the headquarters of the Central Council for Research in Ayurveda and Siddha at New Delhi. There is another statue inside the Ayurveda Maha Sammelan office, Dhanawantari Bhawan at New Delhi and one statue of Dhanvantari is present at Mohyal Ashram in Haridwar.\n\nOne black-stoned statue facing south is also located in a personal property of a Brahman family in Chowk area, Varanasi. It is said that the Idol was found beneath the premises of that property when it was being constructed. When the Brahman owner was unable to identify the god represented, he decided to set it adrift in the Ganges the following morning. However, the same night, the god appeared in his dream, introduced himself as KashiRaja Devodas (Dhanvantari), and commanded that the statue should be left where it was found. Hence, in his house he built this temple, which is largely unknown in that area. Of them all, this temple could be believed by the god's devotees to be the most divine and spiritual, because of the idol's serendipitous discovery, the reason for its rescue from oblivion, and its preservation.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "44870663", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44870663", "title": "Drug testing welfare recipients", "text": "Drug testing welfare recipients\n\nSome states in the United States of America have enacted or proposed legislation requiring drug testing of people applying for welfare. As of early 2017, 15 US states had passed legislation enabling drug testing of welfare applicants or recipients, primarily in relation to Temporary Assistance for Needy Families payments. Drug testing of welfare recipients has been proposed but not implemented in Canada and the UK, and a trial program is being considered in Australia. In New Zealand, recipients of some payments may be required to take a drug test if this is a requirement of a potential employer or trainer.\n\nProponents of such programs have supported them with a variety of goals in mind, including: getting help for drug users on welfare payments by referring those testing positive to treatment, avoiding \"subsidizing drug habits\" with public money, deterring drug use, reducing state welfare spending, and protecting children. \n\nOpponents have criticized these laws for costing more money than they save. The cost per positive test varies because of differences in state programs, but a review of 14 programs in 2016 reported costs per positive test result of between $200 (Tennessee) and $7,006 (Missouri). Eric Liu has criticized drug tests of welfare recipients, which are often promoted by Republican lawmakers, as hypocritical, as they promote government paternalism. Some suggest drug testing welfare recipients is linked to discrimination against welfare recipients or to racism. Executives of the non-profit group CLASP have stated that the laws will have a chilling effect on the willingness of existing welfare recipients to admit themselves to drug treatment. Additionally, public policy professor Harold Pollack wrote that \"Other physical and mental health problems are far more prevalent. Yet these less-moralized concerns receive much less attention from legislators or the general public.\" The American Civil Liberties Union has opposed welfare drug testing laws in Florida and expressed concern about the proposal gaining traction in other states. Almost all scholarly articles on the subject of suspicionless drug testing of welfare recipients has concluded that this testing violates the Fourth Amendment to the United States Constitution (for this reason many programs now involve initial screening with a psychological assessment tool, with those considered likely to have a drug problem then referred for testing). The ethical acceptability of drug testing welfare recipients has also been questioned.\n\nIn 2009, Arizona enacted a drug-testing law for welfare applicants.\n\nIn December 2013, federal judge Mary Stenson Scriven struck down a Florida law, passed in May 2011, that required welfare recipients to be drug tested before they could receive benefits. Rick Scott, the governor of Florida, had endorsed the legislation, and said he intended to appeal Scriven's decision to the U.S. Court of Appeals.\n\nIn April 2014, Georgia governor Nathan Deal signed a bill requiring drug testing for welfare applicants whom state employees suspected had been using drugs.\n\nIn 1999 a pilot program of drug testing welfare recipients was introduced, but terminated after a legal challenge that it violated the Fourth Amendment. In December 2014, Rick Snyder, the governor of Michigan, signed a bill beginning a pilot program whereby welfare recipients in three Michigan counties will be drug tested if they are suspected of having used drugs.\n\nFrom August 2012 to July 2013, Utah spent over $30,000 on drug testing welfare applicants. State Representative Brad Wilson claimed in September 2013 that the program had saved more than $350,000 based on a drop of 247 applicants for TANF after the drug testing was instituted.\n\nScott Walker, the governor of Wisconsin, has endorsed drug testing for welfare recipients.\n\nIn a pilot drug testing program in Florida in 1999-2000, 5.1% returned a positive urinalysis. A 2015 study by ThinkProgress found that out of seven states reporting data on welfare drug testing, only one had a usage rate above 1%. Analysis of data on US state programs provided by CLASP shows that of the total population screened in 9 states, 0.19% returned positive tests, or 0.57% if refused tests (where reported) are treated as positives (see data in appendix D).\n"}
{"id": "83877", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=83877", "title": "Enema", "text": "Enema\n\nAn enema is the injection of fluid into the lower bowel by way of the rectum. \n\nIn standard medicine, the most frequent uses of enemas are to relieve constipation and for bowel cleansing before a medical examination or procedure; also, they are employed as a lower gastrointestinal series (also called a barium enema), to check diarrhea, as a vehicle for the administration of food, water or medicine, as a stimulant to the general system, as a local application and, more rarely, as a means of reducing temperature, as treatment for encopresis, and as a form of rehydration therapy (proctoclysis) in patients for whom intravenous therapy is not applicable.\n\nIn other contexts, enemas are used by some alternative health therapies, used recreationally, chiefly as part of sexual activities, but also in sadomasochism, as well as simply for pleasure, used to intoxicate with alcohol, used to administer drugs for both recreational and religious reasons, and used for punishment.\n\nThe principal medical usages of enemas are:\n\nAs bowel stimulants, enemas are employed for the same purposes as orally administered laxatives: To relieve constipation; To treat fecal impaction; To empty the colon prior to a medical procedure such as a colonoscopy. A large volume or high enema can be given to cleanse as much of the colon as possible of feces. However, a low enema is generally useful only for stool in the rectum, not in the intestinal tract.\n\nSuch enemas' mechanism consists of the volume of the liquid causing rapid expansion of the intestinal tract in conjunction with, in the case of certain solutions, irritation of the intestinal mucosa, resulting in powerful peristalsis and a feeling of extreme fecal urgency. The enema is retained until there is a uncontrollable urge to defecate, at which time the recipient may expel any fecal matter loosened by the instilled solution together with the solution itself. The procedure may cause uncomfortable bloating and cramping.\n\nPlain water can be used, simply functioning mechanically to expand the colon, thus prompting evacuation.\n\nCastile soap is commonly added because its irritation of the colon's lining increases the urgency to defecate.\n\nLikewise, mild hand soap can be dissolved in the water. However, liquid handsoaps and detergents should not be used.\n\nGlycerol is a specific bowel mucosa irritant serving to induce peristalsis via a hyperosmotic effect. It is used in a dilute solution, e.g., 5%.\n\nBuffered sodium phosphate solution draws additional water from the bloodstream into the colon to increase the effectiveness of the enema, but can be rather irritating to the colon, causing intense cramping or \"griping.\"\n\nNormal saline is least irritating to the colon, at the opposite end of the spectrum. Like plain water, it simply functions mechanically to expand the colon, but having a neutral concentration gradient, it neither draws electrolytes from the body, as happens with plain water, nor draws water into the colon, as occurs with phosphates. Thus, a salt water solution can be used when a longer period of retention is desired, such as to soften an impaction.\n\nLikewise, baking soda (sodium bicarbonate) can be dissolved in the water.\n\nEqual parts of milk and molasses heated together to slightly above normal body temperature have been used. Neither the milk sugars and proteins nor the molasses are absorbed in the lower intestine, thus keeping the water from the enema in the intestine. \n\nMineral oil functions as a lubricant and stool softener, but often has the side effect of sporadic seepage from the patient's anus which can soil undergarments for up to 24 hours.\n\n\"TAI\", also termed \"retrograde irrigation\", is designed to assist evacuation using a water enema as a treatment for persons with bowel dysfunction, including fecal incontinence or constipation, especially obstructed defecation. Its effectiveness varies considerably, some individuals experiencing complete control of incontinence but others reporting little or no benefit.\n\nThe term \"retrograde irrigation\" distinguishes this procedure from the Malone antegrade continence enema, where irrigation fluid is introduced into the colon proximal to the anus via a surgically created irrigation port.\n\nPatients who have a bowel disability, a medical condition which impairs control of defecation, e.g., fecal incontinence or constipation, can use bowel management techniques to choose a predictable time and place to evacuate. Without bowel management, such persons might either suffer from the feeling of not getting relief, or they might soil themselves.\n\nWhile simple techniques might include a controlled diet and establishing a toilet routine, a daily enema can be taken to empty the colon, thus preventing unwanted and uncontrolled bowel movements that day.\nBy regularly emptying the bowel using transanal irrigation, controlled bowel function is often re-established to a high degree, thus enabling development of a consistent bowel routine. An international consensus on when and how to use transanal irrigation for people with bowel problems was published in 2013, offering practitioners a clear, comprehensive and simple guide to practice for the emerging therapeutic area of transanal irrigation.\n\nIn a lower gastrointestinal series an enema that may contain barium sulfate powder or a water-soluble contrast agent is used in the radiological imaging of the bowel. Called a \"barium enema\", such enemas are sometimes the only practical way to \"view\" the colon in a relatively safe manner. Following barium enema administration, patients often find that flushing the remaining barium with additional water, baking soda, or saline enemas helps restore normal colon activity without complications of constipation from the administration of the barium sulfate.\n\nThe administration of substances into the bloodstream. This may be done in situations where it is undesirable or impossible to deliver a medication by mouth, such as antiemetics given to reduce nausea (though not many antiemetics are delivered by enema). Additionally, several anti-angiogenic agents, which work better without digestion, can be safely administered via a gentle enema.\n\nThe topical administration of medications into the rectum, such as corticosteroids and mesalazine used in the treatment of inflammatory bowel disease. Administration by enema avoids having the medication pass through the entire gastrointestinal tract, therefore simplifying the delivery of the medication to the affected area and limiting the amount that is absorbed into the bloodstream.\n\nRectal corticosteroid enemas are sometimes used to treat mild or moderate ulcerative colitis. They also may be used along with systemic (oral or injection) corticosteroids or other medicines to treat severe disease or mild to moderate disease that has spread too far to be treated effectively by medicine inserted into the rectum alone.\n\n\nImproper administration of an enema can cause electrolyte imbalance (with repeated enemas) or ruptures to the bowel or rectal tissues resulting in internal bleeding. However, these occurrences are rare in healthy, sober adults. Internal bleeding or rupture may leave the individual exposed to infections from intestinal bacteria. Blood resulting from tears in the colon may not always be visible, but can be distinguished if the feces are unusually dark or have a red hue. If intestinal rupture is suspected, medical assistance should be obtained immediately.\n\nThe enema tube and solution may stimulate the vagus nerve, which may trigger an arrhythmia such as bradycardia. Enemas should not be used if there is an undiagnosed abdominal pain since the peristalsis of the bowel can cause an inflamed appendix to rupture.\n\nThere are arguments both for and against colonic irrigation in people with diverticulitis, ulcerative colitis, Crohn's disease, severe or internal hemorrhoids or tumors in the rectum or colon, and its usage is not recommended soon after bowel surgery (unless directed by one's health care provider). Regular treatments should be avoided by people with heart disease or renal failure. Colonics are inappropriate for people with bowel, rectal or anal pathologies where the pathology contributes to the risk of bowel perforation.\n\nRecent research has shown that ozone water, which is sometimes used in enemas, can immediately cause microscopic colitis.\n\nA recent case series of 11 patients with five deaths illustrated the danger of phosphate enemas in high-risk patients.\n\n\"Enema\" comes from Greek ἔνεμα (\"énema\"), from ἐνίημι (\"eníēmi\"), \"(I) inject\".\n\n\"Clyster\" (/ˈklɪstə(r)/), also spelled \"glister\" in the 17th century, rarely \"cloister\" or \"clister\" comes from Greek κλυστήρ (\"klystḗr\"), from κλύζω (\"klýzo\"), \"(I) wash\". It is an archaic word for enema, more particularly for enemas administered using a \"clyster syringe\" – that is, a syringe with a rectal nozzle and a plunger rather than a bulb. Clyster syringes were used from the 17th century (or before) to the 19th century, when they were largely replaced by enema bulb syringes, bocks, and bags.\n\nThe first mention of the enema in medical literature is in the Ancient Egyptian Ebers Papyrus ( BCE). One of the many types of medical specialists was an Iri, the Shepherd of the Anus. Many medications were administered by enemas. There was a Keeper of the Royal Rectum who may have primarily been the pharaoh's enema maker. The god Thoth, according to Egyptian mythology, invented the enema.\n\nThe Olmec from their middle preclassic period (10th through 7th centeries BCE) through the Spanish Conquest used trance-inducing substances ceremonially, and these were ingested via, among other routes, enemas administered using jars.\n\nThe Maya in their late classic age (7th through 10th centuries CE) used enemas for, at least, ritual purposes, in the Xibalban court of the God D whose worship included ritual cult paraphernalia. It is hypothesized that these enemas were for ritual purification and the ingestion of intoxicants and hallucinogens. The Maya illustrated the use of a characteristic enema bulb syringe by female attendants administering clysters ritually.\n\nIn the first century BC the Greek physician Asclepiades of Bithynia wrote \"Treatment consists merely of three elements: drink, food, and the enema\". Also, he contended that indigestion is caused by particles of food that are too big and his prescribed treatment was proper amounts of food and wine followed by an enema which would remove the improper food doing the damage.\n\nIn the second century CE the Greek philosopher Celsus recommended an enema of pearl barley in milk or rose oil with butter as a nutrient for those suffering from dysentery and unable to eat and Galen mentions enemas in several contexts.\n\nIn medieval times appear the first illustrations of enema equipment, a clyster syringe consisting of a tube attached to a pump action bulb made of a pig bladder and the 15th century Simple piston syringe clysters came into use. Beginning in the 17th century enema apperatus was chiefly designed for self-administration at home and many were French as enemas enjoyed wide usage in France.\n\nWhen clyster syringes were in use in Europe, the patient was placed in an appropriate position (kneeling, with the buttocks raised, or lying on the side); a servant or apothecary would then insert the nozzle into the anus and press the plunger, resulting in the liquid remedy (generally, water, but also some other preparations) being injected into the colon.\n\nBecause of the embarrassment a woman might feel when showing her buttocks (and possibly her genitals, depending on the position) to a male apothecary, some contraptions were invented that blocked all from the apothecary's view except for the anal area. Another invention was syringes equipped with a special bent nozzle, which enabled self-administration, thereby eliminating the embarrassment.\n\nClysters were administered for symptoms of constipation and, with more questionable effectiveness, stomach aches and other illnesses. In his early-modern treatise, \"The Diseases of Women with Child,\" François Mauriceau records that both midwives and man-midwives commonly administered clysters to labouring mothers just prior to their delivery.\n\nIn the 16th century, satirists made physicians a favorite target, resembling Molière's caricature whose prescription for anything was \"clyster, bleed, purge,\" or \"purge, bleed, clyster.\" Sir Thomas More's eldest daughter had fallen sick of the sweating sickness and could not be awakened by doctors. More prayed for her recovery, and then\n\nwhere incontinent came into his mind, that a glister should be the only way to help her, which when he had told the physicians, they by-and-by confessed, that if there were any hope of health, that it was the very best help indeed, much marvelling of themselves, that they had not afore remembered it.\n\nIn the 18th century tobacco smoke enemas were used to resuscitate drowned people. Tobacco resuscitation kits consisting of a pair of bellows and a tube were provided by the Royal Humane Society of London and placed at various points along the Thames.\n\nClysters were a favourite medical treatment in the bourgeoisie and nobility of the Western world up to the 19th century. As medical knowledge was fairly limited at the time, purgative clysters were used for a wide variety of ailments, the foremost of which were stomach aches and constipation.\n\nMolière, in several of his plays, introduces characters of incompetent physicians and apothecaries fond of prescribing this remedy, also discussed by Argan, the hypochondriac patient of \"Le Malade Imaginaire\". More generally, clysters were a theme in the burlesque comedies of that time.\n\nAccording to Claude de Rouvroy, duc de Saint-Simon, clysters were so popular at the court of King Louis XIV of France that the duchess of Burgundy had her servant give her a clyster in front of the King (her modesty being preserved by an adequate posture) before going to the comedy. However, he also mentions the astonishment of the King and Mme de Maintenon that she should take it before them.\n\nIn the 19th century many new types of enema administration equipment were devised, including the bulb enema. Later there came to be a device to allow gravity to infuse the solution into the recipient, consisting of a rubber bag or bucket connected to a hose with a nozzle at the other end to insert into the patient's anus, the bag or bucket being held or hung above the patient. These continue to be used, although rubber has been replaced by modern materials and the bags, at least in hospital use, as disposable.\n\nIn the late 20th century the microenema was invented, this being a disposable squeeze bottle with contents that cause the body to draw water into the colon, e.g., sodium biphosphate (popular in the United States) or glycerin (popular in Japan).\n\nNutrient enemas were administered with the intent of providing nutrition when normal eating is not possible. Although this treatment is ancient, dating back at least to Galen, and commonly used in the Middle Ages, and still a common technique in 19th century medicine, Nutrient enemas have been superseded in modern medical care by tube feeding and intravenous feeding.\n\nThe term \"colonic irrigation\" is commonly used in gastroenterology to refer to the practice of introducing water through a colostomy or a surgically constructed conduit as a treatment for constipation. The Food and Drug Administration has ruled that colonic irrigation equipment is not approved for sale for the purpose of general well-being and has taken action against many distributors of this equipment, including a Warning Letter. \n\nThe same term is also used in alternative medicine where it may involve the use of substances mixed with water in order to detoxify the body. Practitioners believe the accumulation of fecal matter in the large intestine leads to ill health. This resurrects the old medical concept of \"autointoxication\" which was orthodox doctrine up to the end of the 19th century but which has now been discredited.\n\nAlthough well documented, the procedure of inserting coffee through the anus to cleanse the rectum and large intestines is considered by most medical authorities to be unproven, rash and potentially dangerous.\n\nIn the Gerson therapy, coffee enemas are administered.\n\nSome proponents of alternative medicine have claimed that coffee enemas have an anti-cancer effect by \"detoxifying\" metabolic products of tumors but there is no medical scientific evidence to support this.\n\nIn the late 19th century Dr. John Harvey Kellogg made sure that the bowel of each and every patient was plied with water, from above and below. His favorite device was an enema machine (\"just like one I saw in Germany\") that could run fifteen gallons of water through a person's bowel in a matter of seconds. Every water enema was followed by a pint of yogurt—half was eaten, the other half was administered by enema \"thus planting the protective germs where they are most needed and may render most effective service.\" The yogurt served to replace \"the intestinal flora\" of the bowel, creating what Kellogg claimed was a completely clean intestine.\n\nEnjoyment of enemas is known as klismaphilia, which medically is classified as a paraphilia. A person with klismaphilia is a \"klismaphile\".\n\nKlismaphiles can gain satisfaction of enemas through fantasies, by actually receiving or giving one, or through the process of eliminating steps to being administered one (e.g., under the pretense of being constipated). An enema can be an auxiliary to, or even a substitute for, genital sexual activity. Additionally, enemas can stimulate the prostate gland.\n\nThat some women use enemas while masturbating was documented by Kinsey, A. in \"Sexual Behavior in the Human Female.\" H stated, :There still other masturbatory techniques which were regularly or occasionally employed by some 11 percent of the females in the sample ... enemas, and other anal insertions, ... were employed.\"\n\nEnemas are sometimes used in sadomasochistic activities for erotic humiliation or for physical discomfort.\nAn enema can be employed prior to anal sexual activities such as anal sex, anilingus, and pegging to enhance sensation or remove feces, possibly reducing risk of infection.\n\nNoting that deaths have been reported from alcohol poisoning via enemas, an alcohol enema can be used to very quickly instill alcohol into the bloodstream, absorbed through the membranes of the colon. However, great care must be taken as to the amount of alcohol used. Only a small amount is needed as the intestine absorbs the alcohol far more quickly than the stomach.\n\nPreceding an enema for administration of drugs or alcohol, a cleansing enema may first be used for cleaning the colon to help increase the rate of absorption.\n\nEnemas have been used for ritual rectal drug administration such as balché, alcohol, tobacco, peyote, and other hallucinogenic drugs and entheogens, most notably by the Maya and also some other American Indian tribes. Some tribes continue the practice in the present day.\n\nCalled Basti or Vasti in Ayurveda, enemas are part of Panchakarma procedure in which herbal medicines are introduced rectally.\n\nEnemas have also been forcibly applied as a means of punishment. In the vastly influential Latin American text \"Facundo, or Civilization and Barbarism\", for example, Domingo Faustino Sarmiento describes the use of pepper and turpentine enemas by police forces as a way of discouraging political dissent in post-independence Argentina.\n\nThe Senate Intelligence Committee report on CIA torture documented instances of enemas being used by the Central Intelligence Agency in order to ensure \"total control\" over detainees.\n\nA brass statue of a syringe enema bulb held aloft by three angels stands in front of the \"Mashuk\" spa in the settlement of Zheleznovodsk in Russia. It is the only known monument to the enema.\n\n\nNotes\n"}
{"id": "55951034", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55951034", "title": "European Society of Aesthetic Gynecology", "text": "European Society of Aesthetic Gynecology\n\nThe European Society of Aesthetic Gynecology (\"E.S.A.G\") is a teaching organization which aims at enhancing the knowledge of gynecological surgical techniques and concepts. The main aim of the society is to furnish its members with teaching surgical skills. On a yearly basis the society sponsors meetings and workshops. The conference proceedings are published in journals. \n"}
{"id": "5395819", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5395819", "title": "Filter cake", "text": "Filter cake\n\nA filter cake is formed by the substances that are retained on a filter. The filter cake grows in the course of filtration, becoming \"thicker\" as particulate matter is retained.\n\nWith increasing layer thickness, the flow resistance of the filter cake increases. After a time, the filter cake has to be removed from the filter, e.g. by backflushing. If this is not accomplished, the filtration is disrupted because the viscosity of the filter cake gets too high; hence, too little of the mixture to be filtered can pass through the filter cake and the filter plugs. The specifications of the filter cake dictate the filtration method of choice.\n\n"}
{"id": "9481518", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9481518", "title": "Fitness trail", "text": "Fitness trail\n\nA fitness trail or parcourse consists of a path or course with outdoor exercise equipment or obstacles installed along its length for exercising the human body to promote good health. The course is designed to promote physical fitness training in the style attributed to Georges Hébert. In general, fitness trails can be natural or man-made, located in areas such as forest, transportation rights-of-way, parks, or urban settings. Equipment exists to provide specific forms of physiological exercise, and can consist of natural features including climbable rocks, trees, and river embankments, or manufactured products (stepping posts, chin-up and climbing bars) designed to provide similar physical challenges. The degree of difficulty of a course is determined by terrain slope, trail surface (dirt, grass, gravel, etc.), obstacle height (walls) or length (crawls) and other features. Urban parcourses tend to be flat, to permit participation by the elderly, and to accommodate cyclists, runners, skaters and walking. The new concept of an outdoor gym, containing traditional gym equipment specifically designed for outdoor use, is also considered to be a development of the parcourse. These outdoor exercise gyms include moving parts and are often made from galvanised metal.\n\nThe original parcours was invented in 1968 by Swiss architect Erwin Weckemann with support from Swiss life insurance firm Vita. The first course was built in Zurich, Switzerland. Hundreds of courses were built in Europe by 1972.\n\nCourses built in ensuing years included:\n\nFitness Trails can include stations for the upper body, lower body, balance & coordination and climbing/jumping equipment designed to test the whole body.\n\nInstallations are found across AU.\n\n\n\n\n\"East Bay\"\n\"North Bay\"\n\"San Francisco Peninsula\"\n\nSouth Bay\n\n\n\n\nWaters of France Company, distributor of Perrier water. The circuit includes eighteen exercise stations spaced over a 2.5 mile path.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n \n\nCalisthenics Parks - find one near you"}
{"id": "63847", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=63847", "title": "Formaldehyde", "text": "Formaldehyde\n\nFormaldehyde (systematic name methanal) is a naturally occurring organic compound with the formula CHO (H-CHO). It is the simplest of the aldehydes (R-CHO). The common name of this substance comes from its similarity and relation to formic acid.\n\nFormaldehyde is an important precursor to many other materials and chemical compounds. In 1996, the installed capacity for the production of formaldehyde was estimated at 8.7 million tons per year. It is mainly used in the production of industrial resins, e.g., for particle board and coatings.\n\nIn view of its widespread use, toxicity, and volatility, formaldehyde poses a significant danger to human health. In 2011, the US National Toxicology Program described formaldehyde as \"known to be a human carcinogen\".\n\nFormaldehyde is more complicated than many simple carbon compounds in that it adopts several different forms. As a gas, formaldehyde is colorless and has a characteristic pungent, irritating odor. Upon condensation, the gas converts to various other forms of formaldehyde (with different chemical formulas) that are of more practical value. One important derivative is the cyclic trimer metaformaldehyde or 1,3,5-trioxane with the formula (CHO). There is also a linear polymer called paraformaldehyde. These compounds have similar chemical properties and are often used interchangeably.\n\nWhen dissolved in water, formaldehyde also forms a hydrate, methanediol, with the formula . This compound also exists in equilibrium with various oligomers (short polymers), depending on the concentration and temperature. A saturated water solution, of about 40% formaldehyde by volume or 37% by mass, is called \"100% formalin\". A small amount of stabilizer, such as methanol, is usually added to suppress oxidation and polymerization. A typical commercial grade formalin may contain 10–12% methanol in addition to various metallic impurities. The name was long ago genericized from an old trade name \"Formalin\".\n\nProcesses in the upper atmosphere contribute up to 90% of the total formaldehyde in the environment. Formaldehyde is an intermediate in the oxidation (or combustion) of methane, as well as of other carbon compounds, e.g. in forest fires, automobile exhaust, and tobacco smoke. When produced in the atmosphere by the action of sunlight and oxygen on atmospheric methane and other hydrocarbons, it becomes part of smog. Formaldehyde has also been detected in outer space (see below).\n\nFormaldehyde and its adducts are ubiquitous in living organisms. It is formed in the metabolism of endogenous amino acids and is found in the bloodstream of humans and other primates at concentrations of approximately 0.1 millimolar. Experiments in which animals are exposed to an atmosphere containing isotopically labeled formaldehyde have demonstrated that even in deliberately exposed animals, the majority of formaldehyde-DNA adducts found in non-respiratory tissues are derived from endogenously produced formaldehyde.\n\nFormaldehyde does not accumulate in the environment, because it is broken down within a few hours by sunlight or by bacteria present in soil or water. Humans metabolize formaldehyde quickly, so it does not accumulate, converting it to formic acid in the body.\n\nFormaldehyde was the first polyatomic organic molecule detected in the interstellar medium. Since its initial detection in 1969, it has been observed in many regions of the galaxy. Because of the widespread interest in interstellar formaldehyde, it has recently been extensively studied, yielding new extragalactic sources. A proposed mechanism for the formation is the hydrogenation of CO ice, shown below.\n\nFormaldehyde appears to be a useful probe for astrochemists, due to its low reactivity in the gas phase and to the fact that the 1←1 and 2←2 K-doublet transitions are rather clear.\n\nOn 11 August 2014, astronomers released studies, using the Atacama Large Millimeter/Submillimeter Array (ALMA) for the first time, that detailed the distribution of HCN, HNC, HCO, and dust inside the comae of comets C/2012 F6 (Lemmon) and C/2012 S1 (ISON).\n\nFormaldehyde was first reported in 1859 by the Russian chemist Aleksandr Butlerov (1828–86) and was conclusively identified in 1869 by August Wilhelm von Hofmann.\n\nFormaldehyde is produced industrially by the catalytic oxidation of methanol. The most common catalysts are silver metal or a mixture of an iron and molybdenum or vanadium oxides. In the commonly used formox process, methanol and oxygen react at ca. 250–400 °C in presence of iron oxide in combination with molybdenum and/or vanadium to produce formaldehyde according to the chemical equation:\n\nThe silver-based catalyst usually operates at a higher temperature, about 650 °C. Two chemical reactions on it simultaneously produce formaldehyde: that shown above and the dehydrogenation reaction:\n\nIn principle, formaldehyde could be generated by oxidation of methane, but this route is not industrially viable because the methanol is more easily oxidized than methane.\n\nFormaldehyde is a building block in the synthesis of many other compounds of specialised and industrial significance. It exhibits most of the chemical properties of other aldehydes but is more reactive. \n\nFormaldehyde, unlike most aldehydes, oligomerizes spontaneously. The trimer is trioxane and the polymer is called paraformaldehyde. Many cyclic oligomers have been isolated. Similarly, formaldehyde hydrates to give the geminal diol, which condenses further to form oligomers HO(CHO)H. Monomeric CHO is rarely encountered.\n\nIt is more readily oxidized by atmospheric oxygen into formic acid. For this reason, commercial formaldehyde typically is contaminated with formic acid.\n\nFormaldehyde is a good electrophile. With good nucleophiles such as thiols, amines, and even amides, no acid catalyst is required. The resulting hydroxymethyl derivatives typically react further. Thus amines give hexahydro-1,3,5-triazines. Similarly, when combined with hydrogen sulfide, it forms trithiane.\n\nIn the presence of acids, it participates in electrophilic aromatic substitution reactions with aromatic compounds resulting in hydroxymethylated derivatives:\nWhen conducted in the presence of hydrogen chloride, the product is the chloromethyl compound, as described in the Blanc chloromethylation. If the arene is electron-rich, as in phenols, elaborate condensations ensue. With 4-substituted phenols one obtains calixarenes. Phenol results in polymers.\n\nCannizzaro reaction in the presence of basic catalysts to produce formic acid and methanol.\n\nFormaldehyde is a common precursor to more complex compounds and materials. In approximate order of decreasing consumption, products generated from formaldehyde include urea formaldehyde resin, melamine resin, phenol formaldehyde resin, polyoxymethylene plastics, 1,4-butanediol, and methylene diphenyl diisocyanate. The textile industry uses formaldehyde-based resins as finishers to make fabrics crease-resistant. Formaldehyde-based materials are key to the manufacture of automobiles, and used to make components for the transmission, electrical system, engine block, door panels, axles and brake shoes. The value of sales of formaldehyde and derivative products was over $145 billion in 2003, about 1.2% of the gross domestic product (GDP) of the United States and Canada. Including indirect employment, over 4 million people work in the formaldehyde industry across approximately 11,900 plants in the U.S. and Canada.\n\nWhen treated with phenol, urea, or melamine, formaldehyde produces, respectively, hard thermoset phenol formaldehyde resin, urea formaldehyde resin, and melamine resin. These polymers are common permanent adhesives used in plywood and carpeting. It is used as the wet-strength resin added to sanitary paper products such as (listed in increasing concentrations injected into the paper machine headstock chest) facial tissue, table napkins, and roll towels. They are also foamed to make insulation, or cast into moulded products. Production of formaldehyde resins accounts for more than half of formaldehyde consumption.\n\nFormaldehyde is also a precursor to polyfunctional alcohols such as pentaerythritol, which is used to make paints and explosives. Other formaldehyde derivatives include methylene diphenyl diisocyanate, an important component in polyurethane paints and foams, and hexamine, which is used in phenol-formaldehyde resins as well as the explosive RDX. \n\nCondensation with acetaldehyde affords pentaerythritol, a chemical necessary in synthesizing PETN, a high explosive. Condensation with phenols gives phenol-formaldehyde resins. \n\nAn aqueous solution of formaldehyde can be useful as a disinfectant as it kills most bacteria and fungi (including their spores). It is used to produce killed vaccines. Formaldehyde releasers are used as biocides in personal care products such as cosmetics. Although present at levels not normally considered harmful, they are known to cause allergic contact dermatitis in certain sensitised individuals.\n\nAquarists use formaldehyde as a treatment for the parasites \"Ichthyophthirius multifiliis\" and \"Cryptocaryon irritans\".\n\nFormaldehyde is also approved for use in the manufacture of animal feeds in the US. It is an antimicrobial agent used to maintain complete animal feeds or feed ingredients Salmonella negative for up to 21 days.\n\nFormaldehyde preserves or fixes tissue or cells. The process involves cross-linking of primary amino groups. The European Union has banned the use of formaldehyde due to its carcinogenic properties as a biocide (including embalming) under the Biocidal Products Directive (98/8/EC). Countries with a strong tradition of embalming corpses, such as Ireland and other colder-weather countries, have raised concerns. Despite reports to the contrary, no decision on the inclusion of formaldehyde on Annex I of the Biocidal Products Directive for product-type 22 (embalming and taxidermist fluids) had been made .\n\nFormaldehyde-based crosslinking is exploited in ChIP-on-chip or ChIP-sequencing genomics experiments, where DNA-binding proteins are cross-linked to their cognate binding sites on the chromosome and analyzed to determine what genes are regulated by the proteins. Formaldehyde is also used as a denaturing agent in RNA gel electrophoresis, preventing RNA from forming secondary structures. A solution of 4% formaldehyde fixes pathology tissue specimens at about one mm per hour at room temperature.\n\nFormaldehyde and a 18 M (concentrated) sulfuric acid makes Marquis reagent—which can identify alkaloids and other compounds.\n\nIn photography, formaldehyde is used in low concentrations for process C-41 (color negative film) stabilizer in the final wash step, as well as in the process E-6 pre-bleach step, to make it unnecessary in the final wash.\n\nAstringent\n\nFormaldehyde topical can be used as an antiperspirant to treat hyperhydrosis.\n\nThe safety of formaldehyde is very complicated. It occurs naturally and is \"an essential intermediate in cellular metabolism in mammals and humans.\" It is not acutely toxic as ingestion of many milliliters is tolerated. The main concerns are associated with chronic (long term) exposure by inhalation. This may happen through three main sources: thermal or chemical decomposition of formaldehyde-based resins, emission from aqueous formaldehyde solutions (i.e. embalming fluids), and the production of formaldehyde resulting from the combustion of a variety of organic compounds (for example, exhaust gases). As formaldehyde resins are used in many construction materials it is one of the more common indoor air pollutants. At concentrations above 0.1 ppm in air formaldehyde can irritate the eyes and mucous membranes, resulting in watery eyes. Formaldehyde inhaled at this concentration may cause headaches, a burning sensation in the throat, and difficulty breathing, and can trigger or aggravate asthma symptoms.\n\nA 1988 Canadian study of houses with urea-formaldehyde foam insulation found that formaldehyde levels as low as 0.046 ppm were positively correlated with eye and nasal irritation.\nA recent review of studies has shown a strong association between exposure to formaldehyde and the development of childhood asthma.\nThe primary exposure concern is for the workers in the industries producing or using formaldehyde.\n\nThe formaldehyde theory of carcinogenesis was proposed in 1978. In 1987 the U.S. EPA classified it as a \"probable human carcinogen\", and after more studies the WHO International Agency for Research on Cancer (IARC) in 1995 also classified it as a \"probable human carcinogen\". Further information and evaluation of all known data led the IARC to reclassify formaldehyde as a \"known human carcinogen\" associated with nasal sinus cancer and nasopharyngeal cancer. Recent studies have also shown a positive correlation between exposure to formaldehyde and the development of leukemia, particularly myeloid leukemia. Nasopharyngeal and sinonasal cancers are relatively rare, with a combined annual incidence in the United States of < 4,000 cases. About 25,000 cases of myeloid leukemia occur in the United States each year. Workplace exposure to inhaled chemicals is among the most important risk factors for sinonasal cancers. Professionals exposed to formaldehyde in their occupation, such as funeral industry workers and embalmers, showed an increased risk of leukemia and brain cancer compared with the general population. Other factors are important in determining individual risk for the development of leukemia or nasopharyngeal cancer.\n\nIn the residential environment, formaldehyde exposure comes from a number of different routes; formaldehyde can off-gas from wood products, such as plywood or particle board, but it is produced by paints, varnishes, floor finishes, and cigarette smoking as well. In July 2016, the EPA released a prepublication version of its final rule on Formaldehyde Emission Standards for Composite Wood Products. These new rules impact manufacturers, importers, distributors, and retailers of products containing composite wood, including fiberboard, particleboard, and various laminated products, who must comply with more stringent record-keeping and labeling requirements.\n\nThe United States Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) allows no more than 0.016 ppm formaldehyde in the air in new buildings constructed for that agency. A U.S. Environmental Protection Agency study found a new home measured 0.076 ppm when brand new and 0.045 ppm after 30 days. The Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) has also announced limits on the formaldehyde levels in trailers purchased by that agency. The EPA recommends the use of \"exterior-grade\" pressed-wood products with phenol instead of urea resin to limit formaldehyde exposure, since pressed-wood products containing formaldehyde resins are often a significant source of formaldehyde in homes. \nFor most people, irritation from formaldehyde is temporary and reversible, though formaldehyde can cause allergies and is part of the standard patch test series. In 2005–06, it was the seventh-most-prevalent allergen in patch tests (9.0%). People with formaldehyde allergy are advised to avoid formaldehyde releasers as well (\"e.g.\", Quaternium-15, imidazolidinyl urea, and diazolidinyl urea). People who suffer allergic reactions to formaldehyde tend to display lesions on the skin in the areas that have had direct contact with the substance, such as the neck or thighs (often due to formaldehyde released from permanent press finished clothing) or dermatitis on the face (typically from cosmetics). Formaldehyde has been banned in cosmetics in both Sweden and Japan. The eyes are most sensitive to formaldehyde exposure: The lowest level at which many people can begin to smell formaldehyde is about 0.05 ppm and the highest level is 1 ppm. The maximum concentration value at the workplace is 0.3 ppm. In controlled chamber studies, individuals begin to sense eye irritation at about 0.5 ppm; 5 to 20 percent report eye irritation at 0.5 to 1 ppm; and greater certainty for sensory irritation occurred at 1 ppm and above. While some agencies have used a level as low as 0.1 ppm as a threshold for irritation, the expert panel found that a level of 0.3 ppm would protect against nearly all irritation. In fact, the expert panel found that a level of 1.0 ppm would avoid eye irritation—the most sensitive endpoint—in 75–95% of all people exposed.\n\nFormaldehyde levels in building environments are affected by a number of factors. These include the potency of formaldehyde-emitting products present, the ratio of the surface area of emitting materials to volume of space, environmental factors, product age, interactions with other materials, and ventilation condition. Formaldehyde emits from a variety of construction materials, furnishings, and consumer products. The three products that emit the highest concentrations are medium density fiberboard, hardwood plywood, and particle board. Environmental factors such as temperature and relative humidity can elevate levels because formaldehyde has a high vapor pressure. Formaldehyde levels from building materials are the highest when a building first opens because materials would have less time to off-gas. Formaldehyde levels decrease over time as the sources suppress.\n\nFormaldehyde levels in air can be sampled and tested in several ways, including impinger, treated sorbent, and passive monitors. The National Institute for Occupational Safety and Health (NIOSH) has measurement methods numbered 2016, 2541, 3500, and 3800.\n\nStudies on the interactions between formaldehyde and proteins at the molecular level have been reported on the effects of the body’s carrier protein, serum albumin. The binding of formaldehyde loosens the skeletal structure of albumin and exposure of aromatic ring amino acids in the internal hydrophobic region. Symptoms may affect personal awareness, making one feel tired or fatigued.\n\nFormaldehyde inhalation has also shown to cause oxidative stress and inflammation in animals. Mice studied over an exposure to a high dose of formaldehyde (3ppm), showed increased NO levels in plasma. This result suggests that FA inhalation either decreased NO production or increased NO scavenging, which may be an anti-stress mechanism in the body. Formaldehyde inhalation changes the sensitivity of immune system, which influences oxidative stress.\n\nIn June 2011, the twelfth edition of the National Toxicology Program (NTP) Report on Carcinogens (RoC) changed the listing status of formaldehyde from \"reasonably anticipated to be a human carcinogen\" to \"known to be a human carcinogen.\" Concurrently, a National Academy of Sciences (NAS) committee was convened and issued an independent review of the draft United States Environmental Protection Agency IRIS assessment of formaldehyde, providing a comprehensive health effects assessment and quantitative estimates of human risks of adverse effects.\n\nSeveral web articles claim that formaldehyde has been banned from manufacture or import into the European Union (EU) under REACH (Registration, Evaluation, Authorization, and restriction of Chemical substances) legislation. This is misinformation, as official EU chemical databases contradict these claims as of February 19, 2010. This misconception has gained some ground. Formaldehyde is not listed in the Annex I of Regulation (EC) No 689/2008 (export and import of dangerous chemicals regulation), nor on a priority list for risk assessment. However, formaldehyde is banned from use in certain applications (preservatives for liquid-cooling and processing systems, slimicides, metalworking-fluid preservatives, and antifouling products) under the Biocidal Products Directive. In the EU, the maximum allowed concentration of formaldehyde in finished products is 0.2%, and any product that exceeds 0.05% has to include a warning that the product contains formaldehyde.\n\nIn the United States, Congress passed a bill July 7, 2010 regarding the use of formaldehyde in hardwood plywood, particle board, and medium density fiberboard. The bill limited the allowable amount of formaldehyde emissions from these wood products to .09 ppm, and required companies to meet this standard by January 2013.\nFormaldehyde was declared a toxic substance by the 1999 Canadian Environmental Protection Act.\n\nIn the U.S. the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) provided travel trailers, recreational park trailers and manufactured homes starting in 2006 for habitation by residents of the U.S. gulf coast displaced by Hurricane Katrina and Hurricane Rita. Some of the people who moved into the FEMA trailers complained of breathing difficulties, nosebleeds, and persistent headaches. Formaldehyde-catalyzed resins were used in the production of these homes.\n\nThe United States Centers For Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) performed indoor air quality testing for formaldehyde in some of the units. On February 14, 2008, the CDC announced that potentially hazardous levels of formaldehyde were found in many of the travel trailers and manufactured homes provided by the agency. The CDC's preliminary evaluation of a scientifically established random sample of 519 travel trailers and manufactured homes tested between December 21, 2007, and January 23, 2008 (2+ years after manufacture), showed average levels of formaldehyde in all units of about 0.077 parts per million (ppm). Long-term exposure to levels in this range can be linked to an increased risk of cancer and, at levels above this range, there can also be a risk of respiratory illness. These levels are higher than expected in indoor air, where levels are commonly in the range of 0.01–0.02 ppm, and are higher than the Agency for Toxic Substance Disease Registry (ATSDR, division of the CDC) Minimal Risk Level (MRL) of 0.008 ppm. Levels measured ranged from 0.003 ppm to 0.59 ppm.\n\nFEMA, which requested the testing by the CDC, said it would work aggressively to relocate all residents of the temporary housing as soon as possible. Lawsuits were filed against FEMA trailer manufacturers as a result of the exposures. As of 2012, U.S. District Judge Kurt D. Engelhardt of New Orleans approved a $42.6 million class-action lawsuit settlement for the plaintiffs, who included roughly 55,000 residents of Louisiana, Mississippi, Alabama and Texas. The defendants included two dozen manufacturers who built mobile homes for the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA), including Gulf Stream Coach Inc., Forest River Inc., Vanguard LLC and Monaco Coach Corp. A separate $5.1 million settlement dealt with claims against FEMA contractors including Shaw Environmental Inc., Bechtel Corp., Fluor Enterprises Inc. and CH2M Hill Constructors Inc., who were responsible for installing and maintaining the units.\n\nAlso in the U.S., problems arose in trailers again provided by FEMA to residents displaced by the Iowa floods of 2008. Several months after moving to the trailers, occupants reported violent coughing, headaches, as well as asthma, bronchitis, and other problems. Tests showed that in some trailers, levels of formaldehyde exceeded the limits recommended by the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency and American Lung Association. The associated publicity has resulted in additional testing to begin in November.\n\nFormaldehyde occurs naturally and is \"an essential intermediate in cellular metabolism in mammals and humans.\" At high concentrations it is probably unhealthy. Scandals have broken in both the 2005 Indonesia food scare and 2007 Vietnam food scare regarding the addition of formaldehyde to foods to extend shelf life. In 2011, after a four-year absence, Indonesian authorities found foods with formaldehyde being sold in markets in a number of regions across the country. In August 2011, at least at two Carrefour supermarkets, the Central Jakarta Livestock and Fishery Sub-Department found a sweet glutinous rice drink (cendol) contained 10 parts per million of formaldehyde. In 2014, the owner of two noodle factories in Bogor, Indonesia; was arrested for using formaldehyde in noodles. 50 kg of formaldehyde was confiscated. Foods known to be contaminated included noodles, salted fish, and tofu. Chicken and beer were also rumored to be contaminated. In some places, such as China, manufacturers still use formaldehyde illegally as a preservative in foods, which exposes people to formaldehyde ingestion. In humans, the ingestion of formaldehyde has been shown to cause vomiting, abdominal pain, dizziness, and in extreme cases can cause death. Testing for formaldehyde is by blood and/or urine by gas chromatography-mass spectrometry. Other methods include infrared detection, gas detector tubes, etc., of which HPLC is the most sensitive. In the early 1900s, it was frequently added by US milk plants to milk bottles as a method of pasteurization due to the lack of knowledge regarding formaldehyde's toxicity.\n\nIn 2011 in Nakhon Ratchasima, Thailand, truckloads of rotten chicken were exposed to formaldehyde in which \"a large network,\" including 11 slaughterhouses run by a criminal gang, were implicated. In 2012, 1 billion rupiah (almost USD100,000) of fish imported from Pakistan to Batam, Indonesia, were found laced with formaldehyde.\n\nFormalin contamination of foods has been reported in Bangladesh, with stores and supermarkets selling fruits, fishes, and vegetables that have been treated with formalin to keep them fresh. However, in 2015, a \"Formalin Control Bill\" was passed in the Parliament of Bangladesh with a provision of life-term imprisonment as the maximum punishment and in addition 2,000,000 BDT as fine but not less than 500,000 BDT for importing, production or hoarding of formalin without license.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "47606169", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47606169", "title": "Grace Eldering", "text": "Grace Eldering\n\nGrace Eldering (September 5, 1900 – August 31, 1988) was an American public health scientist, known for her involvement in the creation of a vaccine for whooping cough along with Loney Gordon and Pearl Kendrick.\n\nGrace Eldering was born in Rancher, Montana, in 1900. Eldering's parents had immigrated to the United States before she was born, with her mother having arrived from Scotland and her father from the Netherlands. She contracted and survived whooping cough when she was five, leading to her involvement in science in her adulthood. After high school Eldering attended the University of Montana for four semesters before money troubles caused her to drop out. She taught for four years saving up enough money to return to the university and obtain a Bachelor of Science. She then went on to teach at Hysham High School for an English class and a Biology class. She continued her education later in life and earned a Ph.D. in science in 1942 from Johns Hopkins University.\n\nIn 1928, Eldering moved to Lansing, Michigan to volunteer at Michigan Bureau of Laboratories. She was hired within six months to do routine bacteriologic analysis. She eventually moved to the Michigan Department of Health Laboratory in Grand Rapids, Michigan where she joined Pearl Kendrick and Loney Clinton Gordon to work on growing samples of pertussis bacteria in 1932. The development of the vaccine for pertussis also included the first \"large-scale controlled clinical trial for pertussis vaccine\". This was conducted by setting up a large network of medical professionals and neighborhood organizations in order to obtain large samples of pertussis from as many different patients as possible. Kendrick and Eldering started a \"cough plate diagnostic service\" on November 1, 1932, whereby cough plates of suspected infected individuals could be sent in for confirmation. This also allowed them to determine the time period of infectivity of pertussis and when those infected were at highest risk of infecting others around them. In addition, they set up a method of quarantine for Grand Rapids that would keep any outbreaks from spreading and required a 35-day period of isolation for infected patients. Within three years, their methods had become an official routine for the county and the state at large. While trying to create these methods Eldering and Kendrick faced many troubles while trying to find the funding to do so. Their research took place in the middle of the Great Depression, making already scarce funding harder to get a hold of. They eventually received funding from federal emergency relief programs, city government and private donors. The whole experiment was conducted after hours at work because the health department was so understaffed they couldn’t spend time on it during normal work hours. They also had nurse technicians and private physicians volunteer their time to help prepare and give the vaccine.\n\nWhile the methods developed had allowed Kendrick and Eldering to make specific vaccines for those infected, they didn't begin work on a general vaccine until late 1933. Their outreach system among physicians, city officials, and school administrations allowed rapid inoculation of children and other city inhabitants. This trial ran for more than three years (March 1934-November 1937) and enrolled more than 5,815 children. The design and procedures for the trials were a work in progress considering neither Kendrick or Eldering had experience in creating trials. In October 1935 the pair presented their preliminary findings at the annual American Public Health Association meeting. Many senior figures at this meeting did not want to endorse the vaccine they created because they felt it was not adequately tested. Eventually Kendrick and Eldering called in a consultant for their trial, Wade Hampton Frost. Frost was a professor of epidemiology at Johns Hopkins and made two separate trips to Grand Rapids in November 1936, and in December 1937 to critique the trial and help make a plan for analyzing the results of the vaccine. They continued working on refining their inoculation methods through 1938, when they instituted a three vaccine system that involved less of the inactivated bacteria, but was found to be much more effective at providing resistance to infection. Mass production of this new version began across Michigan in 1938 and nationwide by 1940.\n\nIn 1951 ELdering succeeded Kendrick as Chief of the Western Michigan Laboratory of the Health Department, and remained there until she retired in 1969. Eldering continued to live in Grand Rapids and volunteer with the blind and physically handicapped until she died in 1988.\n\nEldering was inducted into the Michigan Women's Hall of Fame in 1983 for her work in public health.\n"}
{"id": "6371099", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6371099", "title": "Healing the blind near Jericho", "text": "Healing the blind near Jericho\n\nEach of the three Synoptic Gospels tells of Jesus healing the blind near Jericho, as he passed through that town, shortly before his passion. \n\nThe Gospel of Mark tells of the cure of a man named Bartimaeus healed by Jesus as he is leaving Jericho. The Gospel of Matthew and the Gospel of Luke include different versions of this story.\n\nThe earliest version is in the Gospel of Mark () which tells of the cure of a blind beggar named Bartimaeus (literally \"Son of Timaeus\"). He is one of the few recipients of healing whose names evangelists let us know. Theologian Oleg Molenko (Uryupin) attributes this detail to the fact that these people had been definitely saved and served the Church in their lifetime unlike those whose names evangelists did not disclose. For example, in another instance of a man who had been an invalid for 38 years who waited for the movement of the water in a pool in the Gospel of John () and whose name remains unknown, Jesus cures that sick person and warns him about the consequences in case he reverts to doing things that brought him to the condition of infirmity of which he's now restored (), as yet he might have had inclination towards sin. Unlike him, healed Bartimaeus follows Jesus immediately, which led the evangelist Mark to include his name in the narrative. Bartimaeus also teaches us a Jesus Prayer, \"Jesus, Son of David, have mercy on me!\", and, its result, an acquiring spiritual eyesight, the sign of which was his restored ability to see. \n\nAs Jesus is leaving Jericho with his followers, Bartimaeus calls out: 'Son of David, have mercy on me!' and persists even though the crowd tries to silence him. Jesus has them bring the man to him and asks what he wants; he asks to be able to see again. Jesus tells him that his faith has cured him; he immediately regains his sight and follows Jesus.\n\nApart from telling a miracle story that shows the power of Jesus, the author of the Gospel uses this story to advance a clearly theological purpose. It shows a character who understands who Jesus is and the proper way to respond to him - with faith. The beggar, on being called to Jesus, discards his cloak, symbolising the leaving behind of possessions. And the use of the title, 'Son of David' - the only occasion on which this is used in the Gospel of Mark - serves to identify Jesus as the Messiah.\n\nThe Gospel of Matthew has two unnamed blind men, sitting by the roadside; Jesus is 'moved by compassion' and touches their eyes. A version of the same story is told earlier in the narrative, when Jesus is preaching in Galilee. On this occasion, he asks the blind men if they believe he can cure them, and when they assure them they do, he commends their faith and touches their eyes, restoring their sight. He warns them to tell nobody of this, but they go and spread the news throughout the district. (Matthew 9:27-31)\n\nThe Gospel of Luke handles the story in a different way; there is one unnamed blind man, and the author shifts the incident to take place as Jesus is approaching Jericho, so it can lead into the story of Zacchaeus.\n\nVernon K. Robbins emphasizes that the healing of Bartimaeus is the last of Jesus’ healings in Mark, and links Jesus’ earlier teaching about the suffering and death of the Son of Man with his Son of David activity in Jerusalem. The story blends the Markan emphasis on the disciples’ 'blindness' - their inability to understand the nature of Jesus’ messiahship - with the necessity of following Jesus into Jerusalem, where his suffering and death make him recognizable to Gentiles as Son of God.\n\nPaula Fredriksen, who believes that titles such as \"Son of David\" were applied to Jesus only after the crucifixion and resurrection, argued that Mark and Matthew placed that healing with the proclamation \"Son of David!\" just before \"Jesus' departure for Jerusalem, the long-foreshadowed site of his sufferings.\" The title \"Son of David\" is a messianic name. Thus, Bartimaeus' exclamation was, according to Mark, the first \"public\" acknowledgement of the Christ, after St. Peter's \"private\" confession at Mark .\n\nThe naming of Bartimaeus is unusual in several respects: (a) the fact that a name is given at all, (b) the strange Semitic-Greek hybrid, with (c) an explicit translation \"Son of Timaeus.\" Some scholars see this as confirmation of a reference to a historical person; however, other scholars see a special significance of the story in the figurative reference to Plato's Timaeus who delivers Plato's most important cosmological and theological treatise, involving sight as the foundation of knowledge. \n\n\n"}
{"id": "15985781", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15985781", "title": "Health in Romania", "text": "Health in Romania\n\nRomania had the fifth-highest mortality in Europe, at 691 per 100,000 population, and the fourth-highest death rate from communicable diseases in 2015. \n\nThe main causes of death in 2004 in Romania were cardiovascular disease (62%), followed by malignant tumors (17%), digestive diseases (6%), accidents, injuries and poisoning (5%), and respiratory diseases (5%). Deaths from external causes and from infectious and parasitic diseases are more common in Romania (4–5%) than in other EU member states. It is estimated that a fifth of the total population of Romania suffers from a communicable or chronic disease.\n\nThere were 17,283 people with tuberculosis in 2008. The mortality rate is 31.8 people per 1,000 infected citizens. Some statistics show that 30,000 people have been infected with tuberculosis, making it the third-highest rate among countries in Eastern Europe.\n\nApproximately 3.7% of the total population of Romania is either a carrier or affected by hepatitis.\n\nLess than 1% of the total population of Romania is a carrier or infected with HIV. The most common cause of getting HIV is sharing needles. The first case of AIDS in Romania was diagnosed in 1985, and in 1989 cases have been reported in children. Between 1985 and 2014 were reported 19,906 cases, 6,540 deaths, respectively (468 new cases per year).\n\n"}
{"id": "30741600", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30741600", "title": "Henry Littlejohn", "text": "Henry Littlejohn\n\nSir Henry Duncan Littlejohn (1826 – 30 September 1914) was a Scottish surgeon, forensic scientist and public health pioneer. He is also known as an inspiration for the literary character Sherlock Holmes.\n\nHenry Littlejohn was born in Edinburgh in 1826 to Isabella Duncan and Thomas Littlejohn, a confectioner of 33 Leith Street. He began his studies at the Perth Academy, before attending the Royal High School, Edinburgh. He studied medicine at the University of Edinburgh, graduating with distinction in 1847. He was taught surgery by Professor Alexander Monro and Dr Robert Halliday Gunning.\n\nLittlejohn served as Edinburgh's first Medical Officer of Health (1862–1908), introducing model sanitation improvements and the legal requirement to notify cases of infectious diseases. He contributed significantly to the public health movement in Edinburgh and to public health administration and also to urban management. He was assisted in later years by Dr Thomas William Drinkwater FRSE. Littlejohn also co-founded the Royal Hospital for Sick Children in Edinburgh.\n\nLong a lecturer for the Royal College of Surgeons of Edinburgh at Surgeons' Hall, he was appointed to the Chair of Medical Jurisprudence at the University of Edinburgh in 1897.\n\nServing as Edinburgh's Police Surgeon from 1854 and as Medical Advisor to the Crown in Scotland in criminal cases, he was often called upon as an expert witness. From 1862 he was Edinburgh's first Medical Officer of Health.\n\nA kirk elder at the High Kirk of Edinburgh, Littlejohn filled several prominent posts in public life, including nine years on the board of the Royal Infirmary of Edinburgh, president of the Royal College of Surgeons of Edinburgh (1875–76), president of the Medico-Chirurgical Society of Edinburgh (1883–85), and president of the Royal Institute of Public Health (1893).\n\nAlthough Arthur Conan Doyle primarily credited Joseph Bell as being the source of inspiration for his character Sherlock Holmes, he also cited Henry Littlejohn as being a contributing influence. Littlejohn, as a forensic expert involved in police investigations, appears to have been joined by Bell on several investigations; furthermore, Littlejohn taught Doyle forensic medicine when Doyle was studying at the medical school of the University of Edinburgh.\n\nHenry Littlejohn was knighted in 1895 by Queen Victoria.\n\nIn his later life he lived at 24 Royal Circus in Edinburgh's Second New Town.\n\nHe died at Benreoch, near Arrochar in Argyll in 1914, and was interred at the Dean Cemetery in Edinburgh. His grave is on the edge of the southern path towards the west end. He is buried with his wife, Isabella Jane Harvey, and their children.\n\nSir Henry was the father of Henry Harvey Littlejohn (1862-1927) (normally just called Harvey Littlejohn during his life but posthumously largely called Henry) who followed in his father's footsteps and continued his adoption of tangential thinking to resolve investigations. His early years were spent at the family home, then at 40 York Place.\n\nH. H. Littlejohn adopted unusual methods of study. This included mapping instances of typhoid across Edinburgh in 1891 in conjunction with the noted map-maker, J. G. Bartholomew. The purpose of this was to track down the source of the outbreak. This technique is now common practice in police techniques to observe patterns in pursuit of crime detection.\n\nThe results, published in the Edinburgh Medical Journal in March 1891, proved the outbreak centred upon a property at Gardner's Crescent, in the west of the city, with almost all neighbouring houses becoming infected. He then tracked the original source to a batch of milk from one individual farm, tracked down all the shops that it supplied, and had all milk destroyed (compensating the shop-owners).\n\nIn 1902 he was elected a Fellow of the Royal Society of Edinburgh. His proposers were Sir William Turner, Alexander Crum Brown, and Sir Thomas Richard Fraser.\n\nHe was one of the first persons in the world to be appointed as Chief Police Surgeon for a city (1906).\n\nIn later life Harvey Littlejohn lived at 1 Atholl Crescent in Edinburgh's West End.\n\nHe died at a nursing home in Edinburgh on 15 August 1927. Henry Harvey is buried in his father's plot at Dean Cemetery.\n"}
{"id": "55569928", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55569928", "title": "Hong Kong College of Physicians", "text": "Hong Kong College of Physicians\n\nThe Hong Kong College of Physicians is a professional body for physicians in Hong Kong.\n"}
{"id": "10433957", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10433957", "title": "Hybridon", "text": "Hybridon\n\nHybridon, Inc (Amex: HBY) was a biotechnology company based in Cambridge, Massachusetts, specializing in the discovery and development of novel therapeutics and diagnostics using synthetic DNA, that merged with Idera Pharmaceuticals in 2004.\n\nAccording to a U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission filing of May 4, 1999 Hybridon had investors with 5% or more ownership including:\n\n"}
{"id": "18421797", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18421797", "title": "IMedix", "text": "IMedix\n\niMedix was a health search engine and social network service that utilized advanced proprietary algorithms to provide information in response to medical questions and concerns. iMedix was a U.S. cooperation founded in 2006 by Amir Leitersdorf and Iri Amirav. The company's R&D was based in Herzeliya, Israel.\n\nOm May 18, 2011, AVG Technologies acquired iMedix Web Technologies Ltd., realizing \"the integration of iMedix software with the Company’s existing solutions.\" The website shut down sometime after February 2012.\n\nThe iMedix service offered a combination of a health search engine and a collaborative community platform.\n\niMedix was one of \"PCWorld\"'s \"100 Incredibly Useful and Interesting Web Sites\" in 2008.\n\n"}
{"id": "20950973", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20950973", "title": "Idiriya", "text": "Idiriya\n\nIDIRIYA, is a not-for-profit registered humanitarian organisation focusing on disability rights that fully understands \"disability related access issues\" that affect a wide range of people in day-to-day life that concerns even their safety and physical, mental, economical and social well being.\n\nIDIRIYA was born from its founder’s passion for creating an environment that is accessible to all BY DESIGN with dignity, regardless of the degree of physical ability.\n\nBased in Sri Lanka, IDIRIYA comprises a group of professionals in diverse fields who offer their expertise and follow the principle that \"good design enables bad design disables\".\n\nThey have aggressively promoted in Sri Lanka the concept of 'Social Inclusion for All' by design focusing on built environments - Safety being a paramount feature - that does not marginalise or discriminate against people on the grounds of inevitable diversity in ability and campaigned against arbitrary categorization of people.\n\nAlthough IDIRIYA do not seek to people with restricted ability, they support and strive to emPower them to lobby individually and collectively for positive change of a dis-\"A\"bling society by design, to benefit their own day-to-day productive lives.\n\nThe organisation receives no outside funding and has been kept functioning by voluntary contributions of time and resources, mainly by its members.\n\nIDIRIYA was founded in 2005 by disability activist Ajith C. S. Perera.\n\nIt was born from Perera’s (i).. Passion for creating an environment that is accessible and user-friendly equally to everyone, enabling choice and with dignity, (ii).. Commitment to make a consciousness-raising eye-opener on accessibility to built environments, technology, goods and services and (iii).. Desire to promote universal design principles.\n\nIDIRIYA have identified \"two prerequisites\" for a formidable and sustainable national economy: Viz. (i). Arresting the waste of productive human potential through mobilising the productive value of all people, able-bodied or otherwise, and (ii). Minimising unwanted dependents through empowering people.\n\nThey believe that construction of environments for \"inclusion of all people\" and optimum use of technology in daily life is cost effective, realistic and the effective way to arrest colossal waste of precious assets, enhances gainful opportunities for an increasing wide range of people and make everyone meaningful equal partners in Sri Lankan National development.\n\nThey realise the need for a new and more positive understanding and changing reactions to dis-ability and its related key issues.\n\nThis requires opening of minds to the social model of disability that explains how it's the dis-\"A\"bling designs of social environment that renders a wide and diverse range of people increasingly dis-\"A\"bled.\n\nIDIRIYA’s vision is: Safety and Inclusion with Accessibility to Empower People of All Abilities. Enabling the people who are severely ‘disadvantaged’ or ‘marginalised’ in day-to-day normal life due to continuing poor building design and thereby establishing a society that does not discriminate against people with limited mobility - an inevitable fact as life unfolds.\n\nIDIRIYA’s mission is: \"Creating awareness\", \"Engaging support\" and \"Catalysing change\" actively to promote built environments that can be used equally and safely by all sectors of society, with choice, with dignity and without any hindrance.\n\nThe Simultaneous focus here is on two key aspects.\n\n1). To design and conduct educational and awareness programmes as an ongoing process, to stimulate the interest - and thereby induce a positive change in attitudes - to deliver better living environments and thereby to make communities liveable by everyone.\n\n2). To provide the right guidance and proper advice, when required, to those who desire to construct or modify environments or even a mixture of both, so as to be enabling equally for everyone.\n\nTheir work, in performing the dual roles of accessibility advisers and accessibility auditors of built environments, is all about making a positive difference to the quality of human lives of \"able\" people who are disadvantaged or marginalised by dis-\"A\"bling society as they experience, for different reasons, restricted ability, mobility in particular and their safety in day-to-day life.\n\nTheir aims are not to make profits. All members work in continuing to be: exceptionally responsive towards \"designing for inclusion of all\", regardless of the degree of physical ability, and thereby emPowering everyone through 'increased opportunities' in daily life, to be more productive and gainful, healthier and full-fledged citizens.\n\nIDIRIYA recognise the fact that disability related internationally accepted design standards and regulations in building construction and design of key building parts by professionals in this vital industry, often run high risks of failure and thereby waste of resources in terms of practical implementation, if not backed by a good understanding of its intricacies and practical experience, as \"theory without practice is blind\".\n\nThey realise that: Access and emPowerment of People of all Abilities is a crucial subject of national importance.\n\nThey further recognise that: (i). Accessibility experts need to perform a highly specialised job, yet under-estimated and unrecognized in Sri Lanka. (ii). Absence of the services of experienced accessibility experts is the missing link in Sri Lanka fuelling social exclusion and denial of enjoying several rights.\n\nThey understand that the crucial role of an accessibility expert requires an in-depth understanding of intricacies backed by wide practical experience and thorough working knowledge on this subject that goes much far and beyond than what the university courses on architecture and civil engineering teach in Sri Lanka.\n\nIt is not one where standards and specifications can be read and applied in vital tasks. \nAs such, authorities undertaking such tasks of National importance often need expert guidance from those with insight, enough of practical experience and proven competence as to how best to do this Humanitarian work rightly first time.\n\nTo ease the difficulty of finding the right help IDIRIYA has also stepped in here.\n\nSeveral organisations in Sri Lanka, both large and small, who desire to design and deliver better environments that can be used equally and safely by \"all sectors of society\", regardless of their degree of ability, with dignity and with safety, have already benefited to get what they want here with the right guidance of Idiriya - a good testimony to their sincere commitment and proven competence.\n\nIDIRIYA in 2007 initiated action and paved the way in the establishment and launch of the \"first Sri Lanka Standard for design in building construction\" by the Sri Lanka Standards Institution - SLS ISO TR 9527:2006 - taking into consideration diversity in ability of people.\n\nAccessibility to built environments is an indispensable inherent basic human right.\n\nLaws to require public buildings and facilities to be designed and constructed accessible to dis-abled persons were established in Sri Lanka in 1996 and further strengthened by the introduction of accessibility regulations under this law in 2005 and thereafter, receiving unanimous Parliament approval 0n 20 March 2007.\nHowever, inept bureaucracy failed to establish a formal mechanism to implement and pursue the legislation and thereby to deliver practical effect, even in respect of new public buildings.\nViolators roam scot-free, significant setbacks to gainful opportunities of disabled people, increasing numbers hence driven towards poverty affecting even their immediate families, waste of human potential, etc., and thereby reduce our limited resources causing substantial losses to the country.\n\nEven after 15 years this malady continues as the non-disabled decision makers fail to recognise this national disaster.\n\nSeeking redress for physically dis-\"A\"bled persons accessing \"new\" public buildings, a fundamental rights application [Ref: SCFR: 221/2009] aimed at preventing further colossal losses the country incurs, was filed by IDIRIYA at the Supreme Court of Sri Lanka in March 2009.\n\nAjith C. S. Perera, honorary Secretary-General and Chief Executive of IDIRIYA (as at 25 December 2015) appearing in person, argued the need to have the disability access laws and regulations already enacted some years ago, fully enforced and implemented with respect to \"new\" public buildings in Sri Lanka.\n\nThe bench headed by the then country's Chief Justice and the country's current Chief Justice as at 1 January 2016, in delivering their unanimous judgement on 27 April 2011 which further strengthened the order given earlier on 14 October 2009, issued landmark orders having the potential to reverse these adverse trends and reap over 30 rich dividends for the country and its people - disabled and non-disabled alike.\nThis has been recognised in Sri Lanka as a significant achievement towards equalisation of opportunities, 'not simply' but the hard way, \"by the dis-abled for the dis-abled\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "24594182", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24594182", "title": "Jacksonville Developmental Center", "text": "Jacksonville Developmental Center\n\nThe Jacksonville Developmental Center was an institution for developmentally delayed clients, located in Jacksonville, Illinois. It was open from 1851 to November 2012. , the grounds was still owned by the State of Illinois.\n\nIllinois originally did not have any system for caring for its mentally ill citizens who were either living with their family or kept in local almshouses.\nDorothea Dix lobbied the state legislature to create a facility in Illinois designed for the care of the mentally ill. On March 1, 1847, the legislature established the Illinois State Asylum and Hospital for the Insane with a nine-member board of trustees that was empowered to appoint a superintendent, purchase land within four miles of Jacksonville, and construct facilities. (L. 1847, p. 52). At the time, only two other states had state-operated facilities for the mentally ill. The hospital was created to shift the economic burden of the mentally ill onto the state, which paid all of the patients' expenses. However, patients (or their county of residence) remained responsible for transportation, clothing and incidentals.\n\nAt the time, institutions for the mentally ill either had a number of small cottages, or a single large central building under the Kirkbride Plan. The trustees selected Kirkbride's approach for the new institution. The center building was five and a half stories high, with two separate wings for each gender extending with staggered setbacks from the center. In 1984, the building was listed on the National Register of Historic Places, although it was demolished in the 1970s.\n\nConstruction of the buildings was begun in 1848 and James M. Higgins was hired as Superintendent. Although Dix had expressed interest that Jacksonville State Hospital be opened by 1849, it wasn't until November 3, 1851, that the first two wards were ready for occupancy and the first patient, Sophronia McElhiney, of McLean County, was admitted.\n\nIn 1860, Elizabeth P.W. Packard's husband had her committed to Jacksonville against her will, due to a disagreement over her religious beliefs. At the time, Illinois law (which was enacted when the hospital opened) had an exception to its commitment hearing requirement to allow husbands to confine their wives to an asylum without any hearing. After three years, she was discharge from the hospital. Her husband then imprisoned her in their home, and after gaining her freedom through a lawsuit, she formed the Anti-Insane Asylum Society. She led a campaign to amend the Illinois law to guarantee a public hearing for all people declared insane, including women whose husbands wished to have them committed. She also saw similar laws passed in three other states.\n\nJacksonville remained Illinois' only such hospital until two additional facilities, the hospital at Elgin and the hospital at Anna, were authorized in 1869, and the legislature renamed Jacksonville as the Illinois Central Hospital for the Insane, assumed primary responsibility for patients from the counties of central Illinois. As a part of this reorganization, the legislature also reduced the size of Jacksonville's board of trustees to three members and the newly created a new statewide Board of State Commissioners of Public Charities to supervise all state institutions while each one retained its own separate board.\n\nWhen the Board of State Commissioners of Public Charities was abolished in 1909, the institute was reorganized and renamed Jacksonville State Hospital effective January 1, 1910. In 1917, the Department of Public Welfare assumed responsibility for Jacksonville State Hospital and retained control until the creation of the Illinois Department of Mental Health in 1961 (L. 1961, p. 2666).\n\nFrom 1944 to 1974, the hospital provided training in psychiatric nursing for students from general hospital nursing schools. Jacksonville's Psychiatric Nursing Affiliation Program, which was headed by the State Alienist.\n\nIn 1974, Jacksonville State Hospital's duties expanded beyond in-patient care of mental illness to include treatment for the *developmentally disabled.\" To reflect this change in mission, the legislature renamed it the Jacksonville Mental Health and Developmental Center' in 1975. (P.A. 79-581, p. 1895.) Jacksonville phased out its in-patient treatment of mental illness and its name was changed one last time to reflect its new mission.\n\nWhen closed, the Jacksonville Developmental Center treated primarily developmentally delayed patients, some of whom also had mental illnesses. The center was operated by the Illinois Department of Human Services.\n\n, Jacksonville had 400 employees and an appropriation of $30,107,300.\n\nIn September 2011, Governor Pat Quinn announced a plan to close the facility in February 2012 due to budget issues.\n\nThe last residents were moved out in late November 2012.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "44512958", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44512958", "title": "Jan Nolta", "text": "Jan Nolta\n\nJan A. Nolta is an American scientist and the director of the stem cell program at the UC Davis School of Medicine and Institute for Regenerative Cures. She is Scientific Director for the UC Davis Good Manufacturing Practice and editor of the journal \"Stem Cells\". Nolta is known for her work with stem cell-related regenerative medicine. Nolta's current research focuses on treatment of Huntington's disease using mesenchymal stem cells.\n\nNolta received a Bachelor of Science degree in Biology from California State University Sacramento in 1984, took master’s classes at UC Davis, and later earned a Ph.D. in molecular microbiology from the University of Southern California. She was an assistant professor at the USC School of Medicine before becoming an associate professor at Washington University School of Medicine in St. Louis. After serving as Scientific Director of the Cell Processing and Gene Therapy Good Manufacturing Practice facility at Washington University, Nolta joined UC Davis in 2006.\n\nWhile working towards her masters at UC Davis, Nolta was hired by Donald Kohn at the Children's Hospital Los Angeles and worked on gene therapy procedures.\n\nNolta now serves as the Director of the Stem Cell Program at the UC Davis School of Medicine, as well as the Director of the UC Davis Institute for Regenerative Cures, a facility supported by the California Institute for Regenerative Medicine (CIRM).\n\nNolta's research focuses on human stem cells and regenerative medicine therapies. Nolta's work focuses primarily on neurodegenerative diseases, especially therapeutics for Huntington's disease. She also studies Parkinson's disease, ALS, Liver disease, lysosomal storage diseases, and peripheral vascular disease. Her lab uses genetically engineered mesenchymal stem cells from the bone marrow of healthy donors to transport enzymes and proteins to other cells.\n\nNolta has acted as editor and editorial board member on eight scientific journals, including Stem Cells. She has published numerous peer-reviewed scientific journals and book chapters, and served on review panels for the National Institutes of Health and other grant-funding agencies.\n\n"}
{"id": "16250002", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16250002", "title": "Kent/Sussex Detoxification Center", "text": "Kent/Sussex Detoxification Center\n\nKent/Sussex Detoxification Center, is a state funded, 20 bed medical facility in the SAMSHA Drug and Alcohol Rehab Programs category. The facility is located in Ellendale, Delaware in the former Ellendale public school on Main Street. It was opened in 1974. This facility is one of only two detoxification centers in the state, with the other being Kirkwood Detox Center. In 2005, the facility serviced an average of 14.8 patients per day and in 2006 the facility serviced an average of 12.2 patients per day.\n\nThe detox center was a part of a controversy in September 2006 when a man called the medical facility to learn about being admitted for alcohol abuse. When the staff learned he only had Medicaid, he was denied treatment as the state-funded facility did not accept Medicaid at that time. Two days later, his body was discovered as he had hanged himself in his backyard the night he had been denied entry into the program.\n\nIt was closed temporarily in 2009 when it was transferred to a private company. \n"}
{"id": "3775539", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3775539", "title": "Lee Brown Coye", "text": "Lee Brown Coye\n\nLee Brown Coye (July 24, 1907 – September 5, 1981) was an American artist.\n\nCoye is probably best remembered for his black-and-white illustrations for pulp magazines and horror fiction, but he produced a variety of works in other media.\n\nCoye was born in Syracuse, New York, and as a young man lived in nearby Tully. He spent his entire life in the Central New York area.\n\nHe and his wife, Ruth, lived in Syracuse for many years where Coye's activities included teaching adult art classes; working under the Works Progress Administration to paint a mural in the Cazenovia High School in 1934 (since destroyed); advertising for the WSYR Broadcasting System in upstate New York, producing a variety of commissioned works.\n\nThe Coyes settled in Hamilton, New York, in 1959 when Lee went to work for Sculptura, a small company that reproduced antique sculptures. The move to Hamilton allowed Coye to fulfill his ambition of returning to a small town and maintaining his own art studio.\n\nCoye was almost entirely self-taught as an artist, and his entire life was devoted to art-related work. As a young man, he attended one semester of night art classes, but his artistic knowledge and abilities came from many years of work and a thorough study of nature. His astute knowledge of body parts developed from his studies of anatomy and his work as a medical illustrator. He spent time attending operations and autopsies, thus becoming extremely familiar with the human body assembled or not.\n\nOne recurring feature in Coye's work is the motif of wooden sticks, often in latticework-like patterns. This was inspired by a 1938 discovery in an abandoned farmhouse.\n\nCoye had returned to the North Pitcher, New York, area where he spent much of his childhood. While wandering deep in the woods, Coye discovered an abandoned farmhouse. Boards and pieces of wood which had been set perpendicular to one another surrounded the site. Neither inside nor out could Coye find an explanation for the presence of these crossed sticks. In the years following, Coye remained interested in the significance of his discovery.\n\nWhen Coye returned to the site in 1963, there was nothing left of the building or the sticks (the area had suffered severe flooding), and he never found out why the sticks were there or who it was that had arranged them in such a manner. Because of the strangeness of the entire experience, these forms never left Coye, and they appear in many of his paintings and illustrations.\n\nThe incident also inspired Coye's friend Karl Edward Wagner to write the award-winning story \"Sticks\". A four-page portfolio of Coye's work accompanies the printing of Wagner's story in Gahan Wilson, ed. \"First World Fantasy Awards\". NY: Doubleday, 1977, (between pages 168 and 169).\n\nThe crescent moon was an early Coye motif in paintings and illustrations. The whale became a later signature motif. Coye fashioned wooden sculptures, silver pendants and pins, engravings, drawings, and a large painting of the whale. One very fine example is in the Morrisville State College Library collection the pine \"Moby-Dick\" sculpture created in 1965. Image of Moby Dick Sculpture\n\nCoye's fame as an illustrator of the macabre developed as a result of his drawings for three horror anthologies edited by August Derleth in the early 1940s, \"Sleep No More\" (1944), \"Who Knocks\" (1946), and \"The Night Side\" (1947). This subsequently led to additional work for \"Weird Tales\", a popular pulp magazine. Coye's work first appeared in the March 1945 issue of \"Weird Tales\", illustrating the story 'Please Go Way and Let Me Sleep\" by Helen Kasson. This tale gave Coye the chance to show dead bodies in various states of decomposition. From 1945 to 1952, his covers and interior work, in a long and fruitful association with the magazine, captured images of horror and the supernatural. A review of \"Pulp Macabre: The Art of Lee Brown Coye's Final and Darkest Hour\" said his work for \"Weird Tales\" produced \"some of the magazine's greatest covers and as well as some of the most memorable illustrations to ever appear in pulps\". In the 1960s, Coye's work appeared in such magazines as \"Fantastic\" and \"Amazing\".\n\nCoye illustrated, as well as the H. P. Lovecraft collection, \"Three Tales of Horror\" (Arkham House, 1967), and two deluxe collections of pulp stories edited by Karl Edward Wagner and published by his imprint Carcosa : Manly Wade Wellman's \"Worse Things Waiting\" (1975) and Hugh B. Cave's \"Murgunstrumm and Others\" (1978). Coye won the World Fantasy Award for best artist in 1975 and 1978. Coye was in the midst of illustrating Cave's volume Death Stalks the Night, which would have been the fifth volume published by North Carolina publishing house Carcosa, when he suffered a crippling stroke and eventually died. The volume's editor, Karl Edward Wagner, abandoned plans to publish through Carcosa, however the volume was eventually issued, with the illustrations Coye had completed, by Fedogan and Bremer.\n\nAlthough Coye is best known for his fantasy and horror illustrations, for more than fifty years his artistic output covered a much wider range. He was a watercolor, oil, and egg tempera painter, a muralist, a sculptor, a photographer, a silversmith, and an able builder of models and dioramas. From rats and beetles and disfigured bodies, to whales, mythic figures, and landscapes, Coye's subjects are as diverse as the media in which he worked. All of his work was executed with expert craftsmanship, and exhibits the originality that sprang from his renowned imagination and sense of humor. Coye created paintings, sculpture, and jewelry that are as beautiful as his illustrations are macabre.\nImage of Night Side cover\nCoye exhibited at the Whitney Museum and the Metropolitan Museum of Art. His work is represented in numerous collections including the Metropolitan Museum of Art in New York, the Everson Museum in Syracuse, the Onondaga County Historical Society, Picker Art Gallery at Colgate University, the Morrisville State College Library, SUNY Oswego, Syracuse University, and private collections.\n\nIn 2015 \"Where Is Abby? & Other Tales\" was published. The book features some stories from Coye's \"Chips and Shavings\" Coye's column printed by \"Mid-York Weekly\" newspaper between 1964 and 1970. One of these tales (based on true stories) also appears (as \"From Chips and Shavings\") in Gahan Wilson, ed. \"First World Fantasy Awards\". NY: Doubleday, 1977, pp. 277–78.\n\nThe book \"Pulp Macabre: The Art of Lee Brown Coye's Final and Darkest Era\" was published in 2015. An article, with interviews by the editors of the book, described Coye's illustrations as \"whimsical and cartoonish\" at first glance but \"spine-chilling\" with a closer look.\n\nThis article is based on \"Lee Brown Coye:Illustrator and Artist\", \"The Mage\", Summer 1985. It is used and updated with permission of the copyright owner. Additional material is from Bill Drew.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "5991448", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5991448", "title": "List of people legally executed in Australia", "text": "List of people legally executed in Australia\n\nBefore the arrival of Europeans, death sentences were carried out in Australia under Aboriginal customary law, either directly or through sorcery. The first executions under European law occurred on 2 October 1629 on Long Island in the Houtman Abrolhos of Western Australia, where seven crew members of the Dutch East India Company ship \"Batavia\" were hanged for mutiny and the subsequent massacre of 125 passengers and crew. Within weeks of the arrival of the First Fleet in 1788 and the establishment of Sydney, New South Wales as the first permanent European settlement, Thomas Barrett became the first person to be executed in Australia under British law.\n\nFrom 1820 onwards, the total number executed in Australia was 1,648.\n\nState boundaries have changed during Australia's history. For the purpose of this article, the executions listed below are divided geographically according to state and territory boundaries as they have existed since 1989.\n\nThe total number of executions in NSW by decade beginning 1820 were: 170 in 1820s, 288 in 1830s, 99 in 1840s, 36 in 1850s, 51 in 1860s, 23 in 1870s, 26 in 1880s, 67 in 1890s, 12 from 1900-1909, 5 from 1910–19, 2 in 1920s, 4 in 1930s and 1 in 1940s. This confirms that names are missing below.\n\n[the reference cited does not mention this case. According to this reference , it seems that the sow, although ordered by the court to be put to death, may have spared, due to the considerable economic loss to its owner this would have entailed]\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nHanged at the Perth Gaol:\n\n\nHanged at the Round House:\n\nHanged at Fremantle Prison:\n\n"}
{"id": "22192759", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22192759", "title": "Lois Privor-Dumm", "text": "Lois Privor-Dumm\n\nLois Privor-Dumm is an expert in the field of vaccine introduction. She is especially recognized for her work with new vaccine introduction, which has included strategies to accelerate access in low and middle income countries, policy research, advocacy, communications and large country introduction.\n\nShe has worked with countries in all income groups and has leveraged her experiences in high and middle income countries to contribute to the significant recent improvements in access in low and low-middle income countries. She currently serves as the Director of Alliances & Information at the International Vaccine Access Center (IVAC) at the Johns Hopkins Bloomberg School of Public Health. Her team conducts advocacy and communications for child health, coordination of the World Pneumonia Day Coalition and working with large countries such as India and Nigeria to provide technical assistance in the form of advicacy and communications, evidence synthesis, stakeholder mapping and research to help countries develop strategies to address the barriers to decision making and implementation for new vaccines.\n\nHer team has worked closely with a variety of stakeholders in India and Nigeria and is focused on building both high-level political and grassroots support. She is currently leading projects in India and Nigeria made possible through grants from the GAVI Alliance and Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation.\n\nShe is a member of the GAVI Large Country Task Team and the PDP Access Steering Committee and has worked on a number of access related projects dealing with economics and financing, supply, distribution and demand forecasting in addition to her work with advocacy, communications and policy.\n\nMs. Privor-Dumm holds an International MBA (IMBA), formerly Masters in International Business (MIBS), from the University of South Carolina and completed her studies and internship in Brussels, Belgium. She completed her undergraduate studies at the State University of New York at Albany in Business Administration (Finance) and Spanish.\n\nMs. Privor-Dumm spent years in the vaccine industry working for Wyeth, where she helped lead efforts to launch Prevnar (pneumococcal conjugate vaccine) in the US, achieving unprecedented uptake of a new pediatric vaccine. Following the successful US experience, she worked as Commercial Director for the Latin American countries to introduce pneumococcal and meningococcal vaccines. Later she worked as Senior Director for Commercial Operations in Europe, the Middle East, and Africa providing guidance to countries to build awareness about Wyeth’s vaccines and pharmaceuticals in the scientific community, supporting efforts with policy makers regarding the introduction of new vaccines and providing marketing and operational expertise to support ongoing business. She also worked at GlaxoSmithkline as director for global commercial strategy for various projects.\n\nIn 2005, she joined The Johns Hopkins Bloomberg School of Public Health to lead Communications & Strategy for the Hib Initiative, a GAVI-funded project with an aim to accelerate and sustain decisions regarding Hib vaccines to help prevent meningitis and pneumonia in children. Now serving as Director of Alliances and Information for IVAC, she has been cited as an expert for different global vaccine campaigns and been involved in research and promotion of vaccine awareness. She has been inverviewed by Developments Magazine and African Press International about the availability of pneumonia related vaccines in African countries.\n\nMs. Privor-Dumm has also worked on different communication tools regarding the availability of vaccines in developing countries in order to raise awareness about the value of pneumococcal and Hib vaccinations to prevent pneumonia and reach Millennium Development Goals 4 by 2015.\n\nThe mission of the Accelerated Vaccine Introduction Initiative (AVI) is to save lives, prevent disease and promote health through timely and equitable access to new and underused \nvaccines. Together, AVI partners serve to: \n\nThe Accelerated Vaccine Initiative Technical Advisory Consortium (AVI TAC) supports the achievement of AVI objectives through its leadership in creating the evidence base, advocating for evidence-driven decision-making, and building platform capacity that can be used to accelerate the introduction of future vaccines.\n\n"}
{"id": "9114591", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9114591", "title": "Meatless Monday", "text": "Meatless Monday\n\nMeatless Monday is an international campaign that encourages people to not eat meat on Mondays to improve their health and the health of the planet.\n\nMeatless Monday is a non-profit initiative of The Monday Campaigns Inc. in association with the Johns Hopkins Bloomberg School of Public Health Center for a Livable Future. Meatless Monday was founded in 2003 by marketing professional Sid Lerner. The program follows the nutrition guidelines developed by the USDA. Meatless Monday is part of the Healthy Monday initiative. Healthy Monday encourages Americans to make healthier decisions at the start of every week. Other Healthy Monday campaigns include: The Kids Cook Monday, Monday 2000, Quit and Stay Quit Monday, Move it Monday, The Monday Mile, and others.\n\nMeatless Monday focuses its initiative on Mondays for several reasons. Friday is traditionally already a meat-free day among Catholics and Orthodox. Monday is typically the beginning of the work week, the day when individuals settle back into their weekly routine. Habits that prevailed over the weekend can be forgotten and replaced by other choices. A weekly reminder to restart healthy habits also encourages success. A 2009 trial published in the American Journal of Preventive Medicine provided individuals with weekly health prompts and encouragement. Approximately two thirds of participants responded with improvements in their overall health, eating habits and physical activity levels.\n\nDuring World War I, President Woodrow Wilson issued a proclamation calling for every Tuesday to be meatless and for one meatless meal to be observed every day, for a total of nine meatless meals each week. The United States Food Administration (USFA) urged families to reduce consumption of key staples to help the war effort and avoid rationing. Conserving food would support U.S. troops as well as feed populations in Europe where food production and distribution had been disrupted by war. To encourage voluntary rationing, the USFA created the slogan “Food Will Win the War” and coined the terms \"Meatless Tuesday\" and \"Wheatless Wednesday” to remind Americans to reduce intake of those products.\n\nHerbert Hoover was the head of the Food Administration as well as the American Relief Association during Woodrow Wilson's presidency, and played a key role implementing the campaign, which was one of Hoover’s many attempts to encourage volunteerism and sacrifice among Americans during the war. The USFA provided a wide variety of materials in addition to advertising, including recipe books and menus found in magazines, newspapers and government-sponsored pamphlets.\n\nThe campaign returned with the onset of World War II, calling upon women on the home front to play a role in supporting the war effort. During this time, meat was being rationed, along with other commodities like sugar and gasoline. The Harry Truman administration, through the Citizens Food Committee, encouraged \"Meatless Tuesdays\" and \"Poultryless Thursdays\" throughout the autumn of 1947; backlash was swift, noncompliance was rampant, and the poultry lobby responded with the National Thanksgiving Turkey Presentation, the forerunner of the modern \"turkey pardon.\"\n\nMeatless Monday was restarted in 2003 as a public health awareness program. The campaign was endorsed by the Center for a Livable Future (a division of the Johns Hopkins Bloomberg School of Public Health) as well as over 20 public health schools. In April 2009, Meatless Monday launched an informational video noting the effects of meat consumption on climate change.\n\nMeatless Monday is based in the United States, but meatless days (Monday in particular) are gaining popularity worldwide. Meat-free Mondays exist in the United Kingdom both as an advertising campaign for Goodlife Foods and as an environmental campaign. On June 15, 2009 Paul McCartney and his daughters Stella and Mary launched a Meat-free Monday campaign. In October 2009, Meatless Monday was launched in São Paulo with government support by the Brazilian Vegetarian Society. In December 2009, Meatless Mondays launched in Australia.\n\nIn May 2009, the city of Ghent, Belgium became the first city with 'official' weekly vegetarian days. Veggie Thursday (or \"Donderdag Veggiedag” in Dutch) was created by the Ethical Vegetarian Alternative, an organization partially funded by the Flemish government. Israeli magazine \"Al Hashulchan\" (On the Table) introduced the Sheni Tzimchoni (Vegetarian Monday) initiative in June 2009. Dozens of Israel’s top restaurants will create innovative meatless meals on Mondays throughout July and August 2009. On April 6, 2010, San Francisco became the first US city to officially declare Mondays to be \"meat free\", calling it their Vegetarian Day. Several other countries have meat-free days as well, including Canada.\n\nIn March 2012, the Government of Croatia also supported the initiative, excluding meat from the menu of the Ministry of Environment and Nature Protection on Mondays.\n\nIn 2017, the Casa Rosada of Argentina instituted, for one lunch of the day, meat-free Mondays, serving only vegan options to its approximately 500 employees, including President Mauricio Macri.\n\nAn attempt by the Greens in Brighton, England, to initiate Meat-Free Mondays, thereby stopping the local council cafeteria selling any meat based foods, was halted after opposition from council workers.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "36698075", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36698075", "title": "Ministry of Health (Indonesia)", "text": "Ministry of Health (Indonesia)\n\nThe Ministry of Health (Indonesian: \"Kementerian Kesehatan\") is a government ministry which organise public health affairs within the Indonesian government.\n\n\nMinistry of Health has 9 directorates, 5 special advisors and 8 centres. The directorates are:\n\n\nThe centres of ministry are\n\nThe expert staff of ministry are\n\n"}
{"id": "54552667", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54552667", "title": "Nursing care bed", "text": "Nursing care bed\n\nA nursing care bed (also nursing bed or care bed) is a bed that has been adapted to the particular needs of people who are ill or disabled. Nursing care beds are used in private home care as well as in inpatient care (retirement and nursing homes).\nTypical characteristics of nursing care beds include adjustable lying surfaces, adjustable heights up to at least 65 cm for ergonomic care, and lockable castors with a minimum diameter of 10 cm. Multi-sectioned, often electronically powered lying surfaces can be adjusted to fit a variety of positions, such as comfortable sitting positions, shock positions or cardiac positions. Nursing care beds are also often equipped with pull-up aids (trapeze bars) and/or [cot side|cot sides]] (side rails) to prevent falls.\n\nThanks to its adjustable height, the nursing care bed allows for both an ergonomic working height for nurses and healthcare therapists as well as a range of suitable positions allowing easy access for the resident. \nThe development, manufacture and sale of nursing care beds are subject to the following regulations:\n\nBed-in-bed systems offer the option to retrofit the functionality of a nursing care bed into a conventional bed frame. A bed-in-bed system provides an electronically adjustable lying surface, which can be fitted into an existing bed frame replacing the conventional slatted frame. This enables the nursing care bed functionality to be fully integrated into the familiar bedroom furniture.\nHospital beds provide all of the basic functions of a nursing care bed. However, hospitals have stricter requirements regarding hygiene as well as stability and longevity when it comes to beds. Hospital beds are also often equipped with special features (e.g. holders for IV devices, connections for intensive care, etc.).\nThis version of the nursing care bed allows the lying surface to be lowered close to the floor to prevent injury from falls. The lowest bed height in the sleeping position, usually about 25 cm above floor level, combined with a roll-down matt that can be placed at the side of the bed if needed – minimises the risk of injury if the resident falls out of the bed. Lie-low beds provide a viable alternative to conventional measures used in caring for restless residents by foregoing legally problematic restrictive measures (cot sides, fixation devices).\nThis is a further adaptation of the lie-low bed, with a lying surface that can be lowered to less than 10 cm above floor level, which ensures that the risk of injury is minimised if the resident falls out of the bed, even without a roll-down matt. In order to maintain and promote mobility, the particularly low height gives residents with limited motor ability the chance to independently return to bed by moving around on all fours, for example.\n\nNursing care beds with technical equipment including sensors and notification functions are known as “intelligent” or “smart” beds.Such sensors in intelligent nursing care beds can, for example, determine whether the user is in the bed, record the resident’s movement profile or register damp in the bed. Those measurements are transmitted to the care givers via cables or wirelessly. The beds are connected to alarm functions and help care givers to assess the need for action.Intelligent beds should contribute to improved care quality. For example, the documented sensor data regarding the intensity of movement in bed can help care givers recognise and make decisions about whether a resident should be moved to prevent bedsores.\n\n"}
{"id": "26692726", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26692726", "title": "OSF HealthCare", "text": "OSF HealthCare\n\nOSF HealthCare is a not-for-profit Catholic health care corporation that operates a medical group, hospital system, and other health care facilities in Illinois and Michigan. Headquartered in Peoria, Illinois, OSF HealthCare is owned and operated by the Sisters of the Third Order of St. Francis.\n\nThe sisters arrived in Iowa City, Iowa in 1875 from Germany. At the request of Rev. Bernard Baak in Peoria, Illinois, six sisters were sent there to care for the sick in 1876. The sisters became an independent religious community in 1877. A major expansion of OSF Saint Francis Medical Center, the largest of the corporation's hospitals, was completed in 2010. In April 2012, the Sisters dropped a bid to acquire health care corporation in Rockford after the Federal Trade Commission challenged the merger as anti-competitive. Also, in April 2012, Sister Judith Ann Duvall gave an interview to the Peoria Journal Star, and emphasized that charitable aid, not solely profit, was the core basis for the Order's and OSF HealthCare's existence (though the Peoria hospital is well situated financially, and with a large endowment). Sister Judith Ann is also the subject of the 2013 documentary Divine Prescription: Stories of Faith, Community and Healing, produced by Diva Communications.\n\nThe OSF HealthCare operates acute care facilities. The system includes thirteen hospitals, two colleges of nursing, and two long-term care facilities.\n\nThe OSF Medical Group has 97 locations, and employs 653 primary care providers and 288 specialty care providers. The OSF Home Care has an average daily census of 198. OSF Saint Francis, Inc. and OSF HealthCare Foundation are also operated by OSF HealthCare.\n\nOSF HealthCare owns OSF Saint Francis, Inc., comprising health care-related businesses, and OSF HealthCare Foundation, the philanthropic arm of OSF HealthCare.\n\n"}
{"id": "30871736", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30871736", "title": "Otitis externa", "text": "Otitis externa\n\nOtitis externa, also called swimmer's ear, is inflammation of the ear canal. It often presents with ear pain, swelling of the ear canal, and occasionally decreased hearing. Typically there is pain with movement of the outer ear. A high fever is typically not present except in severe cases.\nOtitis externa may be acute (lasting less than six weeks) or chronic (lasting more than three months). Acute cases are typically due to bacterial infection, and chronic cases are often due to allergies and autoimmune disorders. Risk factors for acute cases include swimming, minor trauma from cleaning, using hearing aids and ear plugs, and other skin problems, such as psoriasis and dermatitis. People with diabetes are at risk of a severe form of \"malignant otitis externa\". Diagnosis is based on the signs and symptoms. Culturing the ear canal may be useful in chronic or severe cases.\nAcetic acid ear drops may be used as a preventative measure. Treatment of acute cases is typically with antibiotic drops, such as ofloxacin or acetic acid. Steroid drops may be used in addition to antibiotics. Pain medications such as ibuprofen may be used for the pain. Antibiotics by mouth are not recommended unless the person has poor immune function or there is infection of the skin around the ear. Typically, improvement occurs within a day of the start of treatment. Treatment of chronic cases depends on the cause.\nOtitis externa affects 1–3% of people a year; more than 95% of cases are acute. About 10% of people are affected at some point in their lives. It occurs most commonly among children between the ages of seven and twelve and among the elderly. It occurs with near equal frequency in males and females. Those who live in warm and wet climates are more often affected.\n\nEar pain is the predominant complaint and the only symptom directly related to the severity of acute external otitis. Unlike other forms of ear infections, the pain of acute external otitis is worsened when the outer ear is touched or pulled gently. Pushing the tragus, the tablike portion of the auricle that projects out just in front of the ear canal opening, also typically causes pain in this condition as to be diagnostic of external otitis on physical examination. People may also experience ear discharge and itchiness. When enough swelling and discharge in the ear canal is present to block the opening, external otitis may cause temporary conductive hearing loss.\n\nBecause the symptoms of external otitis lead many people to attempt to clean out the ear canal (or scratch it) with slim implements, self-cleaning attempts generally lead to additional traumas of the injured skin, so rapid worsening of the condition often occurs.\n\nThe two factors that are required for external otitis to develop are (1) the presence of germs that can infect the skin and (2) impairments in the integrity of the skin of the ear canal that allow an infection to occur. If the skin is healthy and uninjured, only exposure to a high concentration of pathogens, such as submersion in a pond contaminated by sewage, is likely to set off an episode. However, if there are chronic skin conditions that affect the ear canal skin, such as atopic dermatitis, seborrheic dermatitis, psoriasis or abnormalities of keratin production, or if there has been a break in the skin from trauma, even the normal bacteria found in the ear canal may cause infection and full-blown symptoms of external otitis.\n\nFungal ear canal infections, also known as otomycosis, range from inconsequential to extremely severe. Fungi can be saprophytic, in which there are no symptoms and the fungus simply co-exists in the ear canal in a harmless parasitic relationship with the host, in which case the only physical finding is the presence of a fungus. If the fungus begins active reproduction, the ear canal can fill with dense fungal debris, causing pressure and ever-increasing pain that is unrelenting until the fungus is removed from the canal and anti-fungal medication is used. Most antibacterial ear drops also contain a steroid to hasten resolution of canal edema and pain. Unfortunately, such drops make the fungal infection worse. Prolonged use of them promotes the growth of fungus in the ear canal. Antibacterial ear drops should be used a maximum of one week, but 5 days is usually enough. Otomycosis responds more than 95% of the time to a three-day course of the same over-the-counter anti-fungal solutions used\nfor athlete's foot.\n\nSwimming in polluted water is a common way to contract swimmer's ear, but it is also possible to contract swimmer's ear from water trapped in the ear canal after a shower, especially in a humid climate. Constriction of the ear canal from bone growth (Surfer's ear) can trap debris leading to infection. Saturation divers have reported Otitis externa during occupational exposure.\n\nEven without exposure to water, the use of objects such as cotton swabs or other small objects to clear the ear canal is enough to cause breaks in the skin, and allow the condition to develop. Once the skin of the ear canal is inflamed, external otitis can be drastically enhanced by either scratching the ear canal with an object, or by allowing water to remain in the ear canal for any prolonged length of time.\n\nThe majority of cases are due to \"Pseudomonas aeruginosa\" and \"Staphylococcus aureus\", followed by a great number of other gram-positive and gram-negative species. \"Candida albicans\" and \"Aspergillus\" species are the most common fungal pathogens responsible for the condition.\n\nWhen the ear is inspected, the canal appears red and swollen in well developed cases. The ear canal may also appear eczema-like, with scaly shedding of skin. Touching or moving the outer ear increases the pain, and this maneuver on physical exam is important in establishing the clinical diagnosis. It may be difficult to see the eardrum with an otoscope at the initial examination because of narrowing of the ear canal from inflammation and the presence of drainage and debris. Sometimes the diagnosis of external otitis is presumptive and return visits are required to fully examine the ear. The culture of the drainage may identify the bacteria or fungus causing infection, but is not part of the routine diagnostic evaluation. In severe cases of external otitis, there may be swelling of the lymph node(s) directly beneath the ear.\n\nThe diagnosis may be missed in most early cases because the examination of the ear, with the exception of pain with manipulation, is nearly normal. In some early cases, the most striking visual finding is the lack of earwax. As a moderate or severe case of external otitis resolves, weeks may be required before the ear canal again shows a normal amount of it.\n\nIn contrast to the chronic otitis externa, acute otitis externa (AOE) is predominantly a bacterial infection, occurs suddenly, rapidly worsens, and becomes painful. The ear canal has an abundant nerve supply, so the pain is often severe enough to interfere with sleep. Wax in the ear can combine with the swelling of the canal skin and the associated pus to block the canal and dampen hearing, creating a temporary conductive hearing loss. In more severe or untreated cases, the infection can spread to the soft tissues of the face that surround the adjacent parotid gland and the jaw joint, making chewing painful. In its mildest forms, otitis externa is so common that some ear nose and throat physicians have suggested that most people will have at least a brief episode at some point in life. While a small percentage of people seem to have an innate tendency toward chronic otitis externa, most people can avoid otitis externa altogether once they understand the intricate mechanisms of the disease.\n\nThe skin of the bony ear canal is unique, in that it is not movable but is closely attached to the bone, and it is almost paper thin. For these reasons, it is easily abraded or torn by even minimal physical force. Inflammation of the ear canal skin typically begins with a physical insult, most often from injury caused by attempts at self-cleaning or scratching with cotton swabs, pen caps, fingernails, hair pins, keys, or other small implements. Another causative factor for acute infection is prolonged water exposure in the forms of swimming or exposure to extreme humidity, which can compromise the protective barrier function of the canal skin, allowing bacteria to flourish, hence the name \"swimmer's ear\".\n\nThe strategies for preventing acute external otitis are similar to those for treatment. \n\nEffective solutions for the ear canal include acidifying and drying agents, used either singly or in combination. When the ear canal skin is inflamed from the acute otitis externa, the use of dilute acetic acid may be painful.\n\nBurow's solution is a very effective remedy against both bacterial and fungal external otitis. This is a buffered mixture of aluminum sulfate and acetic acid, and is available without prescription in the United States.\n\nEar drops are the mainstays of treatment for external otitis. Some contain antibiotics, either antibacterial or antifungal, and others are simply designed to mildly acidify the ear canal environment to discourage bacterial growth. Some prescription drops also contain anti-inflammatory steroids, which help to resolve swelling and itching. Although there is evidence that steroids are effective at reducing the length of treatment time required, fungal otitis externa (also called otomycosis) may be caused or aggravated by overly prolonged use of steroid-containing drops.\n\nAntibiotics by mouth should not be used to treat uncomplicated acute otitis externa. Antibiotics by mouth are not a sufficient response to bacteria which cause this condition and have significant side effects including increased risk of opportunistic infection. In contrast, topical products can treat this condition. Oral anti-pseudomonal antibiotics can be used in case of severe soft tissue swelling extending into the face and neck and may hasten recovery.\n\nAlthough the acute external otitis generally resolves in a few days with topical washes and antibiotics, complete return of hearing and cerumen gland function may take a few more days. Once healed completely, the ear canal is again self-cleaning. Until it recovers fully, it may be more prone to repeat infection from further physical or chemical insult.\n\nEffective medications include ear drops containing antibiotics to fight infection, and corticosteroids to reduce itching and inflammation. In painful cases a topical solution of antibiotics such as aminoglycoside, polymyxin or fluoroquinolone is usually prescribed. Antifungal solutions are used in the case of fungal infections. External otitis is almost always predominantly bacterial or predominantly fungal, so that only one type of medication is necessary and indicated.\n\nRemoval of debris (wax, shed skin, and pus) from the ear canal promotes direct contact of the prescribed medication with the infected skin and shortens recovery time. When canal swelling has progressed to the point where the ear canal is blocked, topical drops may not penetrate far enough into the ear canal to be effective. The physician may need to carefully insert a wick of cotton or other commercially available, pre-fashioned, absorbent material called an ear wick and then saturate that with the medication. The wick is kept saturated with medication until the canal opens enough that the drops will penetrate the canal without it. Removal of the wick does not require a health professional. Antibiotic ear drops should be dosed in a quantity that allows coating of most of the ear canal and used for no more than 4 to 7 days. The ear should be left open. It is imperative that visualization of an intact tympanic membrane (eardrum) is noted. \nUse of certain medications with a ruptured tympanic membrane can cause tinnitus, vertigo, dizziness and hearing loss in some cases.\n\nOtitis externa responds well to treatment, but complications may occur if it is not treated. Individuals with underlying diabetes, disorders of the immune system, or history of radiation therapy to the base of the skull are more likely to develop complications, including malignant otitis externa. In these individuals, rapid examination by an otolaryngologist (ear, nose, and throat physician) is very important.\n\n\nNecrotizing external otitis (malignant otitis externa) is an uncommon form of external otitis that occurs mainly in elderly diabetics, being somewhat more likely and more severe when the diabetes is poorly controlled. Even less commonly, it can develop due to a severely compromised immune system. Beginning as infection of the external ear canal, there is an extension of the infection into the bony ear canal and the soft tissues deep to the bony canal. Unrecognized and untreated, it may result in death. The hallmark of malignant otitis externa (MOE) is unrelenting pain that interferes with sleep and persists even after swelling of the external ear canal may have resolved with topical antibiotic treatment. It can also cause skull base osteomyelitis (SBO), manifested by multiple cranial nerve palsies, described below under the \"Treatment\" heading.\n\nMOE follows a much more chronic and indolent course than ordinary acute otitis externa. There may be granulation involving the floor of the external ear canal, most often at the bony-cartilaginous junction. Paradoxically, the physical findings of MOE, at least in its early stages, are often much less dramatic than those of ordinary acute otitis externa. In later stages, there can be soft tissue swelling around the ear, even in the absence of significant canal swelling. While fever and leukocytosis might be expected in response to bacterial infection invading the skull region, MOE does not cause fever or elevation of white blood count.\n\nUnlike ordinary otitis externa, MOE requires oral or intravenous antibiotics for cure. Pseudomonas is the most common offending pathogen. Diabetes control is also an essential part of treatment. When MOE goes unrecognized and untreated, the infection continues to smolder and over weeks or months can spread deeper into the head and involve the bones of the skull base, constituting skull base osteomyelitis <nowiki>(SBO)</nowiki>. Multiple cranial nerve palsies can result, including the facial nerve (causing facial palsy), the recurrent laryngeal nerve (causing vocal cord paralysis) , and the cochlear nerve (causing deafness). The infecting organism is almost always pseudomonas aeruginosa, but it can instead be fungal (aspergillus or mucor). MOE and SBO are not amenable to surgery, but exploratory surgery may facilitate the culture of unusual organism(s) that are not responding to empirically used anti-pseudomonal antibiotics (ciprofloxacin being the drug of choice). The usual surgical finding is diffuse cellulitis without localized abscess formation. SBO can extend into the petrous apex of the temporal bone or more inferiorly into the opposite side of the skull base.\n\nThe use of hyperbaric oxygen therapy as an adjunct to antibiotic therapy remains controversial.\n\nAs the skull base is progressively involved, the adjacent exiting cranial nerves and their branches, especially the facial nerve and the vagus nerve, may be affected, resulting in facial paralysis and hoarseness, respectively. If both of the recurrent laryngeal nerves are paralyzed, shortness of breath may develop and necessitate tracheotomy. Profound deafness can occur, usually later in the disease course due to relative resistance of the inner ear structures. Gallium scans are sometimes used to document the extent of the infection but are not essential to disease management. Skull base osteomyelitis is a chronic disease that can require months of IV antibiotic treatment, tends to recur, and has a significant mortality rate.\n\nThe incidence of otitis externa is high. In the Netherlands, it has been estimated at 12–14 per 1000 population per year, and has been shown to affect more than 1% of a sample of the population in the United Kingdom over a 12-month period.\n\nDuring the Tektite Project in 1969 there was a great deal of otitis externa. The Diving Medical Officer devised a prophylaxis that came to be known as, \"Tektite Solution\", equal parts of 15% tannic acid, 15% acetic acid and 50% isopropanol or ethanol. During Tektite ethanol was used because it was available in the lab for pickling specimens.\n\n"}
{"id": "42776694", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42776694", "title": "Pain Assessment in Advanced Dementia (PAINAD)", "text": "Pain Assessment in Advanced Dementia (PAINAD)\n\nPain Assessment in Advanced Dementia (PAINAD) is a pain scale developed by Victoria Warden, Ann C. Hurley, and Ladislav Volicer to provide a universal method of analysing the pain experienced by patients in late-stage dementia.\n\n\"The total score ranges from 0-10 points. A possible interpretation of the scores is: 1-3=mild pain; 4-6=moderate pain; \n7-10=severe pain.\"\n"}
{"id": "40903165", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40903165", "title": "Plutarco Naranjo Vargas", "text": "Plutarco Naranjo Vargas\n\nPlutarco Naranjo Vargas (Ambato, June 18, 1921 - April 27, 2012) was a doctor, teacher, journalist, historian, and scientific researcher. He served as the Ecuadorian ambassador to the Soviet Union, Poland, and the German Democratic Republic (concurrently) from 1977 to 1978. In 1988, he accepted a four-year appointment to the cabinet of newly elected president Rodrigo Borja Cevallos as Minister of Health.\n\nIn the Academy, Dr. Plutarco Naranjo was one of the trainers through generations of doctors in Ecuador, he participated as organizer of Pharmacology Chair and advised to the Physiology Department of Valey University (Cali-Colombia), besides, he founded the Pharmacology Chair at Central University of Ecuador.\n\nSince his youth, he was strong involved in Botany, that allowed him to open the possibility of knowledge interchange between the western knowledge of botany and traditional medicine, the sacred uses of plants and myths and cultures, creating big contributions to Ethnomedicine.\n\nHis research were very important in Pharmacology, which contributed to improve the life quality, from the field of health to a wide population of patients with various pathologies, in the same way, he made several researches about immunological mechanisms, hypersensitivity to drugs and foods, allergies to antibiotics, and more.\n\nHe was a founder of the Ecuadorian Academy of Medicine and became its president. He was also president of the SILAE - Italo Latin American Association of Ethnomedicine from 1995 to 1997. He was also the Academic Director in the field of health at the Simón Bolívar Andean University.\n\nHe was married to Dr. Enriqueta Banda Flores. They had three children: Alexis, Ana and Plutarco.\n\nHe received the Eugenio Espejo National Award in 1986 in the field of science.\n\nHe died in Quito on April 27, 2012.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "15076859", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15076859", "title": "Predatory dinoflagellate", "text": "Predatory dinoflagellate\n\nPredatory dinoflagellates are predatory heterotrophic or mixotrophic alveolates that derive some or most of their nutrients from digesting other organisms. About one half of dinoflagellates lack photosynthetic pigments and specialize in consuming other eukaryotic cells, and even photosynthetic forms are often predatory.\n\nOrganisms that derive their nutrition in this manner include \"Oxyrrhis marina\", which feeds phagocytically on phytoplankton, \"Polykrikos kofoidii\", which feeds on several species of red-tide and/or toxic dinoflagellates, \"Ceratium furca\", which is primarily photosynthetic but also capable of ingesting other protists such as ciliates, \"Cochlodinium polykrikoides\", which feeds on phytoplankton, \"Gambierdiscus toxicus\", which feeds on algae and produces a toxin that causes ciguatera fish poisoning when ingested, and \"Pfiesteria\" and related species such as \"Luciella masanensis\", which feed on diverse prey including fish skin and human blood cells. Predatory dinoflagellates can kill their prey by releasing toxins or phagocytize small prey directly.\n\nSome predatory algae have evolved extreme survival strategies. For example, \"Oxyrrhis marina\" can turn cannibalistic on its own species when no suitable non-self prey is available, and \"Pfiesteria\" and related species have been discovered to kill and feed on fish, and since have been (mistakenly) referred to as carnivorous \"algae\" by the media.\n\nThe media has applied the term carnivorous or predatory algae mainly to \"Pfiesteria piscicida\", \"Pfiesteria shumwayae\" and other \"Pfiesteria\"-like dinoflagellates implicated in harmful algal blooms and fish kills. \"Pfiesteria\" as an \"ambush predator\" utilizes a \"hit and run\" feeding strategy by releasing a toxin that paralyzes the respiratory systems of susceptible fish, such as menhaden, thus causing death by suffocation. It then consumes the tissue sloughed off its dead prey. \"Pfiesteria piscicida\" () has been blamed for killing more than one billion fish in the Neuse and Pamlico river estuaries in North Carolina and causing skin lesions in humans in the 1990s. It has been described as \"skinning fish alive to feed on their flesh\" or chemically sensing fish and producing lethal toxins to kill their prey and feed off the decaying remains. Its deadly nature has led to \"Pfiesteria\" being referred to as \"killer algae\" and has earned the organism the reputation as the \"\"T. rex\" of the dinoflagellate world\" or \"the Cell from Hell.\"\n\nThe prominent and exaggerating media coverage of \"Pfiesteria\" as carnivorous algae attacking fish and humans has been implicated in causing \"\"Pfiesteria\" hysteria\" in the Chesapeake Bay in 1997 resulting in an apparent outbreak of human illness in the Pocomoke region in Maryland. However, a study published the following year concluded the symptoms were unlikely to be caused by mass hysteria.\n\nDuring the media coverage in the 1990s, \"Pfiesteria\" has been referred to as \"super villain\" and subsequently has been used as such in several fictional works. A \"Pfiesteria\" subspecies killing humans featured in James Powlik's 1999 environmental thriller \"Sea Change\". In Frank Schätzing's 2004 science fiction novel The Swarm, lobsters and crabs spread the killer alga \"Pfiesteria homicida\" to humans.\n\nIn Yann Martel's 2001 novel \"Life of Pi\", the protagonist encounters a floating island of carnivorous algae inhabited by meerkats while shipwrecked in the Pacific Ocean. At a book reading in Calgary, Alberta, Canada, Martel explained that the carnivorous algae island had the purpose of representing the more fantastical of two competing stories in his novel and challenge the reader to a \"leap of faith.\"\n\nIn the 2005 National Geographic TV show \"Extraterrestrial\", the alien organism termed \"Hysteria\" combines characteristics of \"Pfiesteria\" with those of cellular slime molds. Like \"Pfiesteria\", \"Hysteria\" is a unicellular, microscopic predator capable of producing a paralytic toxin. Like cellular slime molds, it can release chemical stress signals that cause the cells to aggregate into a swarm which allows the newly formed superorganism to feed on much larger animals and produce a fruiting body that releases spores for reproduction.\n\n"}
{"id": "5630419", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5630419", "title": "Preimplantation genetic haplotyping", "text": "Preimplantation genetic haplotyping\n\nPreimplantation genetic haplotyping (PGH) is a clinical method of preimplantation genetic diagnosis (PGD) used to determine the presence of single gene disorders in offspring. PGH provides a more feasible method of gene location than whole-genome association experiments, which are expensive and time-consuming.\n\nPGH differs from common PGD methods such as fluorescence \"in situ\" hybridization (FISH) and polymerase chain reaction (PCR) for two primary reasons. First, rather than focusing on the genetic makeup of an embryo PGH compares the genome of affected and unaffected members of previous generations. This examination of generational variation then allows for a haplotype of genetic markers statistically associated with the target disease to be identified, rather than searching merely for a mutation. PGH is often used to reinforce other methods of genetic testing, and is considered more accurate than certain more common PGD methods because it has been found to reduce risk of misdiagnoses. Studies have found that misdiagnoses due to allele dropout (ADO), one of the most common causes of interpretation error, can be almost entirely eliminated through use of PGH. Further, in the case of mutation due to translocation, PGH is able to detect chromosome abnormality to its full extent by differentiating between embryos carrying balanced forms of a translocation versus those carrying the homologous normal chromosomes. This is an advantage because PGD methods such as FISH are able to reveal whether an embryo will express the phenotypic difference, but not whether an embryo may be a carrier. In 2015, PGH was used in conjunction with a whole-genome amplification (WGA) process to not only diagnose disease but also distinguish meiotic segregation errors from mitotic ones.\n\nStudies are being continually performed in an attempt to utilize and improve PGD methods since their initial invention. It has become increasingly popular because it grants individuals the option of detecting embryo abnormalities before implantation, rather than during the beginning weeks of pregnancy. The latter often results in embryo abortion, presenting an ethical dilemma for many that can now be avoided.\n\nPGH uses information regarding family history in conjunction with the use of linked polymorphic markers such as short tandem repeats (STRs) and single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) to locate genes responsible for disease. Both STRs and SNPs are variations in gene nucleotides, and it is estimated that there are tens of millions of each type of variation in human DNA. High frequency of STRs or SNPs in alleles of affected individuals in comparison to their unaffected direct relatives indicates the origin of a disease causing mutation. They thus \"mark\" alleles as having a mutation without having to specifically identify the mutation. Because the number of potential STRs and SNPs is so high, a family pedigree helps to narrow the scope of alleles to analyze. Further, understanding how the gene of interest gets expressed over time helps ultimately determine which haplotype is responsible for the alleles linked to the mutation. A haplotype map is thus created, not only exhibiting genes the offspring will contain, but also the parental origin of the genes. Once the alleles that correlate with a mutation are characterized, PGH of the embryos is possible and only embryos carrying the low risk haplotypes are selected for transfer. PGH is performed in vitro until this point, when the chosen embryos get placed in the uterus of a surrogate mother for further development.\n\nOnce a panel of associated genetic markers has been established for a particular disease it can be used for all carriers of that disease. In contrast, since even a monogenic disease can be caused by many different mutations within the affected gene, conventional PGD methods based on finding a specific mutation would require mutation-specific tests. Thus, PGH widens the availability of PGD to cases where mutation-specific tests are unavailable.\n\nPGH also has an advantage over fluorescence in situ hybridization (FISH) in that FISH is not usually able to make the differentiation between embryos that possess the balanced form of a chromosomal translocation and those carrying the homologous normal chromosomes. This inability can be seriously harmful to the diagnosis made. PGH can make the distinction that FISH often cannot. PGH does this by using polymorphic markers that are better suited at recognizing translocations. These polymorphic markers are able to distinguish between embryos that carried normal, balanced, and unbalanced translocations. FISH also requires more cell fixation for analysis whereas PGH requires only transfer of cells into polymerase chain reaction tubes. The cell transfer is a simpler method and leaves less room for analysis failure.\n\nPGH has been used to screen for:\n\nWhile PGD was initially carried out to sex rabbits in 1968, human PGD only became available after the development of PCR on a single cell DNA in 1985. PGH was first developed in 2006 at London's Guy's Hospital.\n"}
{"id": "55096367", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55096367", "title": "Rabies in Tanzania", "text": "Rabies in Tanzania\n\nThis article is about the social and economic effects of rabies disease in Tanzania.\n\nRabies is a fatal, preventable zoonosis that infects the central nervous system of mammals, caused by the lyssavirus. It is endemic in low income countries, causing an estimated 55,000 human deaths each year with over 98% of these deaths following bites from rabid dogs. It is a dangerous disease, if it is not effectively controlled. Many of the developing world arguing that the efforts for control is hampered by lack of awareness of its true impact.\n\nResearch conducted in Tanzania estimated human rabies mortality at 1499 deaths per year, including unreported cases. There were only 193 reported cases, or 12% of the true number of people dying of rabies annually.\n\nRabies takes an economic toll on Tanzania; costs due to rabies include medical expenses, control of infected dogs, and safety inspections in local communities. Rabies medication is also very expensive for the average Tanzanian.\n\nThere have been some efforts to control rabies through vaccination of the disease sources, which include dogs and other wildlife. A study done in two districts of Ngorongoro and Serengeti studied the spread pattern of rabies where wildlife plays a role in disease transmission. Findings indicated that an annual dog vaccination campaign, achieving the WHO-recommended target of 70% coverage, would have a high chance of controlling rabies in Ngorongoro and Serengeti.\n"}
{"id": "27135995", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27135995", "title": "Regulation of tobacco by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration", "text": "Regulation of tobacco by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration\n\nRegulation of tobacco by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration began in 2009 with the passage of the Family Smoking Prevention and Tobacco Control Act by the United States Congress. With this statute, the Food and Drug Administration (FDA) was given the ability to regulate tobacco products.\n\nPrior to 1996, the FDA played no role in the regulation of tobacco products, and regulations were controlled through a combination of state and congressional regulation. Most state laws dealt with the sale of tobacco products, including the issue of selling to minors and licensing of distributors. By 1950, most states had laws prohibiting the sale of tobacco products to minors, which at the time, the purchase age differed in each state. In 1992 the federal government required states to set a minimum age of at least 18 years to purchase tobacco products, which was amended in all states by 1993.\n\nIn 1964, Surgeon General Luther Terry issued a report on smoking and health saying that tobacco causes lung cancer and is a main contributor to bronchitis. Members of the Federal Trade Commission read the report the day it was released and quickly proposed a mandatory cigarette label that warned, \"CAUTION: cigarette smoking is dangerous to your health and may cause death from cancer and other diseases.\" However, legislation ultimately passed by Congress required a warning label with less dire language:\"CAUTION: CIGARETTE SMOKING MAY BE HAZARDOUS TO YOUR HEALTH.\" In 1965, the United States Congress passed the Federal Cigarette Labeling and Advertising Act (FCLAA), which required a health warning on all cigarette packs. In 1970, President Richard Nixon signed the Public Health Cigarette Smoking Act, which banned cigarettes ads on the radio or television. It also required an updated warning on the cigarette packages which read: \"Warning: The Surgeon General has determined that cigarette smoking is dangerous to your health.\"\n\nIn 1996, the FDA issued the \"FDA Rule,\" which asserted its authority over tobacco products and issued a rule intending to prevent and reduce tobacco use by children. The intended regulations included prohibiting non-face-to-face sales of tobacco products, prohibiting outdoor advertising of tobacco products near schools or playgrounds, imposing more stringent advertising regulations, and prohibiting brand-name sponsorship, among other things.\n\nAfter the regulations were issued in 1996, tobacco companies sued. In the 2000 Supreme Court case \"FDA v. Brown & Williamson Tobacco Corp.\", the court ruled that Congress had not given the FDA authority over tobacco and tobacco marketing.\n\nAs a result, Congress was forced to provide explicit FDA authority to regulate tobacco and this was finally accomplished via the passage of the Family Smoking Prevention and Tobacco Control Act in 2010.\n\nThe Family Smoking Prevention and Tobacco Control Act (also known as the FSPTC Act) was signed into law by President Barack Obama on June 22, 2009. This bill changed the scope of tobacco policy in the United States by giving the FDA the ability to regulate tobacco products, similar to how it has regulated food and pharmaceuticals since the passing of the Pure Food and Drug Act in 1906.\n\nPresident Barack Obama, who has himself struggled with smoking addiction, praised the law, saying that it will save American lives. The Obama administration had previously voiced support for such an act, while former President George W. Bush had threatened to veto the law after it had passed the United States House of Representatives in 2008. Much opposition to the law from Congress came from tobacco-growing states such as North Carolina, whose representatives said they felt that the FDA was not fit to take on the large task of regulating tobacco products.\n\nThe act gives the FDA comprehensive control on tobacco products for sale in the United States. Much of the legislation is targeted specifically at cigarettes and/or smokeless tobacco products. The act gives the FDA the power to:\n\n\nThe Center for Tobacco Products (CTP) is the branch of the FDA created in response to and for the implementation of the Family Smoking Prevention and Tobacco Control Act. The FDA currently has eight divisions, each of which is responsible for protecting some aspect of the public health. The main duties of the Center for Tobacco control include:\n\nThe Center for Tobacco Products is the newest branch of the FDA, and officially was opened on August 19, 2009. Lawrence Deyton, M.D., M.S.P.H, was appointed the first director of the center. Mitch Zeller, JD, became the Director of CTP in March 2013. Zeller was the associate commissioner and director of FDA's first Office of Tobacco Programs until 2000, when the Supreme Court decided that Congress did not give the FDA authority over tobacco products and tobacco product marketing.\n\nA ban on flavored tobacco, as mandated by the Family Smoking Prevention and Tobacco Control Act, was implemented by the CTP on September 22, 2009. This law bans the sale or distribution of any cigarettes containing an artificial or natural flavor other than tobacco. This ban does not apply to menthol.\n\nThe Family Smoking Prevention and Tobacco Control Act called for the creation of a Tobacco Products Scientific Advisory Committee (TPSAC), and the inaugural meeting for this committee was held on March 30–31, 2010. The main purpose of the committee is to assess health and safety issues concerning tobacco products, and then provide advice, information, or recommendations to the Commissioner of Food and Drugs based on their findings.\nSome specific reports they are responsible for include:\n\nThe committee has 12 members, one of which is the chair of the committee. The members are chosen by the Commissioner and are individuals with expertise in the field of medicine, science or technology involving tobacco products. There are 9 voting members, all of whom work in the health care profession in specialties relevant to tobacco use (such as pulmonology, cardiology, toxicology, etc.). One member will be either a federal or local government employee, and one will be a representative of the general public. The three non-voting members will include representatives of various parts of the tobacco industry: one representative of the growers, one of the manufacturing industry, and one of the small-business tobacco manufacturing industry. All members will serve four-year terms.\n\nFive tobacco companies, including Lorillard Tobacco Company, L.P., and R. J. Reynolds Tobacco Company, filed a civil lawsuit in federal court against the United States and the FDA in response of the legislation. The suit was filed in Bowling Green, Kentucky, home to Commonwealth Brands, another tobacco company named in the suit.\n\nThe plaintiffs' (the tobacco companies) objections to the Family Smoking Prevention and Tobacco Control Act and policies decided upon by the Center for Tobacco Control included:\n\nNotably, the tobacco companies argued that the increased size of warning labels on cigarette packing and new restrictions on the design of the packaging interfere with their First Amendment rights to communicate with adult consumers. In addition, they argued against the ban on publicizing relative risk claims about their products, which would apply to light cigarettes and various forms of smokeless tobacco on First Amendment grounds.\n\nJudge Joseph H. McKinley, Jr. issued his Opinion of the Court on January 4, 2010. In reviewing the arguments of the plaintiffs and defendants, McKinley, Jr. ruled largely, but not completely, in favor of the United States and the FDA. Judge McKinley, Jr. ruled that a full ban of graphics and colors on all advertisements and packaging does infringe on the First Amendment rights of tobacco companies to communicate with their adult consumers without reasonably limiting the products’ appeal to youths. However, Judge McKinley, Jr. sided with the defendants on all other contested issues. He ruled that requiring enlarged warnings on packaging is reasonable because it serves to better alert the public about adverse health effects of smoking. He also found that giving the FDA the ability to regulate the use of the relative risk claims did not infringe on the First Amendment rights of the plaintiffs.\n\nAmerican tobacco giants did not universally oppose FDA regulation upon the passing of the Family Smoking Prevention and Tobacco Control Act. Altria Group, the parent company of Philip Morris USA, has spoken out in support of the legislation. According to its website, Philip Morris has favored \"tough but reasonable federal regulation of tobacco products by the Food and Drug Administration.\" The company also says that the legislation can be beneficial to adult consumers, and that they want \"to work with the FDA as it implements a comprehensive national regulatory framework.\"\n\nPhilip Morris has not always supported such broad tobacco regulation. In 1996, they joined other tobacco companies in the major lawsuit that eventually led to FDA v. Brown & Williamson Tobacco Corp. being argued before the Supreme Court. However, since 2000, the company has supported \"meaningful tobacco regulation.\" Philip Morris, the maker of Marlboro brand cigarettes and over a dozen other brands, has much to gain in this legislation. By further reducing tobacco companies’ ability to advertise, Philip Morris’ current US market share of 50% is in effect solidified as other companies are less able to convince consumers to switch to their products. The only downside for Philip Morris is that all companies will be taxed in proportion to their market share.\n\n\n<http://www.philipmorrisusa.com/en/cms/Responsibility/Government_Affairs/Legislative_Issues/Federal_Regulation_of_Tobacco.aspx>.\n\n"}
{"id": "14905844", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14905844", "title": "Retrospective cohort study", "text": "Retrospective cohort study\n\nA retrospective cohort study, also called a historic cohort study, is a longitudinal cohort study used in medical and psychological research. A cohort of individuals that share a common exposure factor is compared to another group of equivalent individuals not exposed to that factor, to determine the factor's influence on the incidence of a condition such as disease or death. Retrospective cohort studies have existed for approximately as long as prospective cohort studies.\n\nThe retrospective cohort study compares groups of individuals who are alike in many ways but differ by a certain characteristic (for example, female nurses who smoke and ones who do not smoke) in terms of a particular outcome (such as lung cancer). Data on the relevant events for each individual (the form and time of exposure to a factor, the latent period, and the time of any subsequent occurrence of the outcome) are collected from existing records and can immediately be analyzed to determine the relative risk of the cohort compared to the control group. This is expressed as a risk ratio or odds ratio.\n\nThis is fundamentally the same methodology as for a prospective cohort study, except that the retrospective study is performed post-hoc, looking back. The prospective study looks forward, enrolling patients unaffected by the outcome and observing them to see whether the outcome has occurred. However, both kinds of cohort studies share the same starting point (considering data from before the occurrence of the outcome). The first objective is still to establish two groups - exposed versus non-exposed - which are then assessed retrospectively to establish the most likely temporal sequence of events leading to the current disease state in both the exposed and unexposed groups.\n\nRetrospective cohort studies require particular caution because errors due to confounding and bias are more common than in prospective studies.\n\nRetrospective cohort studies exhibit the benefits of cohort studies and have distinct advantages relative to prospective ones:\nRetrospective studies are especially helpful in addressing diseases of low incidence, since affected people have already been identified so . The fact that retrospective studies are generally less expensive than prospective studies may be another key benefit. Additionally, it has essentially all the benefits of a cohort study.\n\nRetrospective studies have disadvantages vis-a-vis prospective studies: \n\nWhile retrospective cohort studies try to compare the risk of developing a disease to some already known exposure factors, a case-control study will try to determine the possible exposure factors after a known disease incidence. Both the relative risk and odds ratio are relevant in retrospective cohort studies, but only the odds ratio can be used in case-control studies. Although most case-control studies are retrospective, they can also be prospective when the researcher still enrolls participants based on the occurrence of a disease as new cases occur.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "602445", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=602445", "title": "Sadako Sasaki", "text": "Sadako Sasaki\n\nSadako Sasaki was at home when the explosion occurred, about away from ground zero. She was blown out of the window and her mother ran out to find her, suspecting she may be dead, but instead finding her two-year-old daughter alive with no apparent injuries. While they were fleeing, Sasaki and her mother were caught in the black rain. Her grandmother rushed back to the house and was never to be seen again. After the bombing, Sasaki grew up like her peers and became an important member of her class relay team.\n\nIn November 1954, Sasaki developed swellings on her neck and behind her ears. In January 1955, purpura had formed on her legs. Subsequently, she was diagnosed with acute malignant lymph gland leukemia (her mother and others in Hiroshima referred to it as \"atomic bomb disease\"). She was hospitalized on February 20, 1955, and given a year to live.\n\nSeveral years after the atomic explosion an increase in leukemia was observed, especially among children. By the early 1950s, it was clear that the leukemia was caused by radiation exposure.\n\nShe was admitted as a patient to the Hiroshima Red Cross Hospital for treatment and given blood transfusions on February 21, 1955. By the time she was admitted, her white blood cell count was six times higher compared to the levels of an average child.\n\nIn August 1955, she was moved into a room with a girl named Kiyo, a junior high school student who was two years older than her. It was shortly after getting this roommate that cranes were brought to her room from a local high school club. Sasaki's father, Shigeo, told her the legend of the cranes and she set herself a goal of folding 1,000 of them, which was believed to grant the folder a wish. Although she had plenty of free time during her days in the hospital, Sasaki lacked paper. She would use medicine wrappings and whatever else she could scrounge; this included going to other patients' rooms to ask to use the paper from their get-well presents. Her best friend, Chizuko Hamamoto, would bring paper from school for Sasaki to use.\n\nA popular version of the story is that Sasaki fell short of her goal of folding 1,000 cranes, having folded only 644 before her death, and that her friends completed the 1,000 and buried them all with her. (This comes from the novelized version of her life \"Sadako and the Thousand Paper Cranes\".) However, an exhibit which appeared in the Hiroshima Peace Memorial Museum stated that by the end of August 1955, Sasaki had achieved her goal and continued to fold 300 more cranes. Sadako's older brother, Masahiro Sadako, says in his book \"The Complete Story of Sadako Sasaki\" that she exceeded her goal.\n\nDuring her time in the hospital, her condition progressively worsened. Around mid-October, her left leg became swollen and turned purple. After her family urged her to eat something, Sasaki requested tea on rice and remarked \"It's tasty\". She then thanked her family. Those were her last words. With her family and friends around her, Sasaki died on the morning of October 25, 1955, at the age of 12.\n\nAfter her death, Sasaki's body was examined by the Atomic Bomb Casualty Commission (ABCC) for research on the effects of the atomic bomb on the human body. It was later revealed that the ABCC had also conducted tests on Sasaki while she was alive for the same reasons.\n\nAfter her death, Sasaki's friends and schoolmates published a collection of letters in order to raise funds to build a memorial to her and all of the children who had died from the effects of the atomic bomb, for example the Japanese girl Yoko Moriwaki. In 1958, a statue of Sasaki holding a golden crane was unveiled in the Hiroshima Peace Memorial Park. At the foot of the statue is a plaque that reads: \"This is our cry. This is our prayer. Peace in the world.\"\n\nThere is also a statue of her in the Seattle Peace Park. Sasaki has become a leading symbol of the impact of nuclear war. Sasaki is also a heroine for many girls in Japan. Her story is told in some Japanese schools on the anniversary of the Hiroshima bombing. Dedicated to Sasaki, people all over Japan celebrate August 6 as the annual peace day.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "12583535", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12583535", "title": "Sunflower revolution", "text": "Sunflower revolution\n\nSunflower Revolution is a 3-day event held every fall in Cincinnati, Ohio, that raises funds and awareness about Parkinson's Disease. The event is sponsored by the James J. and Joan A. Gardner Center for Parkinson's Disease and Movement Disorders at the University of Cincinnati Neuroscience Institute, a part of UC Health University of Cincinnati.\n\n"}
{"id": "18264449", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18264449", "title": "Vaginal septum", "text": "Vaginal septum\n\nA vaginal septum is a vaginal anomaly that is partition within the vagina; such a septum could be either longitudinal or transverse. In some affected women, the septum is partial or does not extend the length or width of the vagina. Pain during intercourse can be a symptom. A longitudinal vaginal septum develops during embryogenesis when there is an incomplete fusion of the lower parts of the two Müllerian ducts. As a result, there may appear to be two openings to the vagina. There may be associated duplications of the more cranial parts of the Müllerian derivatives, a double cervix, and either a uterine septum or uterus didelphys (double uterus). A transverse septum forms during embryogenesis when the Müllerian ducts do not fuse to the urogenital sinus. A complete transverse septum can occur across the vagina at different levels. Menstrual flow can be blocked. and is a cause of primary amenorrhea. The accumulation of menstrual debris behind the septum is termed cryptomenorrhea. Some transverse septa are incomplete and may lead to dyspareunia or obstruction in labour. \n\n\n"}
{"id": "11198220", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11198220", "title": "Vanguard Health Systems", "text": "Vanguard Health Systems\n\nVanguard Health Systems was an operator of hospitals and other medical facilities in five U.S. states: Arizona, Illinois, Massachusetts, Michigan, and Texas. The company's headquarters were located in Nashville, Tennessee. Vanguard owned twenty-six hospitals, including the ten Detroit Medical Center hospitals in Detroit, Michigan, five in San Antonio, Texas, four in the Chicago area, four in the Phoenix, Arizona area, and controlled an additional three hospitals through joint ventures, for a total of 6,201 licensed beds ().\nOn February 26, 2001, Charles N. Martin, Jr., Chairman, President and CEO of Vanguard Health Systems in Nashville and other investors invested $3.2 million to the combined companies of Health Connections Inc. and Coactive Systems Corporation.\n\nCharles N. Martin, former CEO of Ornda Healthcorp, started Vanguard with funding from Morgan Stanley. The Blackstone Group acquired a majority stake in Vanguard in 2004. The company went public in 2011, with Blackstone continuing to have a controlling stake. Vanguard was acquired by Tenet Healthcare in 2013.\n\n"}
{"id": "34494116", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34494116", "title": "Voluntary intoxication in English law", "text": "Voluntary intoxication in English law\n\nVoluntary intoxication, where a defendant has wilfully consumed drink or drugs before committing acts which constitute the prohibited conduct (\"actus reus\") of an offence, has posed a considerable problem for the English criminal law. There is a correspondence between incidences of drink and crimes of violence, such as assaults and stabbings. Accordingly, there is a debate about the effect of voluntary intoxication on the mental element of crimes, which is often that the defendant foresaw the consequences, or that they intended them.\n\nIn dealing with this issue and balancing theoretical problems with public policy issues, the English law has categorised offences into two categories, those of basic intent and those of specific intent. In the latter, the defendant's intoxication will be directly relevant as to whether he or she formed the necessary intent. In the former, the picture is more complicated and unclear, although it is known that intoxication will not provide a defence where recklessness can be shown on the accepted facts. Crimes of specific intent include murder, and those of basic intent most crimes of recklessness, including manslaughter.\n\nThere is a widely held belief that alcohol consumption fuels violence. The picture may be more complex involving other factors, including the effects of chronic alcohol abuse rather than its immediate effects.\n\nNeither voluntary nor involuntary intoxication provide a defence in English law in themselves. No behavior is excusable merely because it was committed whilst intoxicated, and the phrase \"a drunken intent is still an intent\" – used in \"Sheehan\" –has not been abandoned. Where an individual voluntarily intoxicates himself, it is not a defence for him to then claim he does not intend any actions he commits while intoxicated. The Earl of Birkenhead stated in 1920 that until the early 19th century voluntary drunkenness was never a defence, based on the principle that \"a man who by his own voluntary act debauches and destroys his will power shall be no better situated in regard to criminal acts than a sober man\". This was considered the authority by Lord Elwyn-Jones in the \"Majewski\" case. Instead, intoxication may assist the defence arguing that the defendant lacked the appropriate \"mens rea\" (mental element) for the crime. However, it has been recognised at common law that those who would not intend to commit a crime if sober cannot be held to the same level of culpability as those who would. Thus, the approach of the courts is generally to find intoxicated individuals guilty of crimes which require basic intent, rather than the specific intent required for other crimes.\n\nIn \"Majewski\", Lord Elwyn-Jones, giving judgement, indicated that a crime was one of specific intent if the \"mens rea\" went further than the \"actus reus\" (prohibited acts, as they actually occurred); in other words, that the crime was one of ulterior intent. This makes sense in the case of burglary and of criminal damage with intent to endanger life, where the intent need not be carried out, and which have been judged crimes of specific intent. However, this fails to explain why murder is considered a crime of specific intent, despite the fact that its mental aspect, intent to cause grievous bodily harm or death, is equal or less than the \"actus reus\" requirement of causing death. Similarly, causing gross bodily harm with intent (contrary to section 18 of the Offences Against the Person Act 1861) has a matching\"mens rea\" and yet is also considered a crime of specific intent.\n\nLord Simon's judgement in the same case advanced a different definition: crimes of specific intent required a \"purposive element\". The court in \"Heard\" considered a specific intent one which fitted either possible definition. However, murder is again an exception: since \"Woolin\", it can be committed not by intent but by virtual certainty and foresight of virtual certainty. Lord Elwyn-Jones also expressed that if a crime could be committed recklessly, it was one of basic intent. This is supported by a number of academics, who do however consider it a matter for the common law to establish by precedent.\n\nThe distinction between crimes of specific and basic intent is demonstrated by the intoxication case of \"R v Lipman\". Here, a man who had voluntarily taken LSD struck and asphyxiated a woman while hallucinating, believing her to be a snake. The man was found to lack the specific intent required of murder, but satisfied the basic intention of manslaughter, that of recklessness. While it has been argued that there is no consistent principle behind the distinction, there has been some judicial effort to suggest a means of categorisation.\n\nCase law has established that murder, wounding or causing grievous bodily harm with intent, theft, robbery, burglary with intent to steal, handling stolen goods, some forms of criminal damage, and any attempt to commit a crime of specific intent are themselves crimes of specific intent.\n\nWhere the defendant is on trial for a crime of specific intent, his state of intoxication will be relevant to whether he formed the required intent. This may prevent the defendant from having the required \"mens rea\". If the defendant's intoxication is so significant as to prevent any sort of intent, this can lead to acquittal. A reduction in the strength of the formed intent is insufficient. In coming to this conclusion, the court in \"Sheehan\" placed a new interpretation on the words of Lord Birkenhead in \"Beard\", taking account of the decision in \"Woolmington\". Lord Birkenhead's words had been that intoxication would be relevant where it prevented the defendant from being\"capable\" of forming the necessary intent.\n\nManslaughter, rape, sexual assault, maliciously wounding or inflicting grievous bodily harm, kidnapping and false imprisonment, assault occasioning actual bodily harm and common assault have all been judged crimes of basic intent. Attempting a crime of basic intent may be a crime of basic intent, but this is unclear.\n\nThe court in \"Majewski\" refers to intoxication as a defence. If this were the case, in crimes of basic intent where it does not provide a defence, the counsel for the defendant could not argue that the defendant did not have the required \"mens rea\" because of intoxication. Accordingly, the \"mens rea\" become irrelevant and the Crown need not show it, thereby aiding the prosecution considerably. The alternative is that the voluntary intoxication provides a \"prior fault\" which substitutes for the \"mens rea\" required. This would leave the prosecution the task of showing voluntary intoxication to the satisfaction of the jury and the avoidance of doubt. However, the taking of alcohol or drugs probably bears little similarity to the rest of the crime the defendant stands accused of it. It is removed in both its nature and possibly significantly in time. The alternative would be to require the prosecution to still show the required \"mens rea\". The defendant's intoxication would be disregarded and the defendant's state of mind assessed as it was. It would, however, rapidly become a question of whether the defendant would have foreseen the consequences had he been sober. This would, however, necessarily require finding defendants such as Lipman guilty, even where he was unconscious.\n\nNeither possibility has been explored in the common law. Accordingly, it only possible to say that the defence cannot argue that intoxication provides a defence, where recklessness has been shown on the fact, in crimes of basic intent. It is possible that the prosecution would be allowed, in certain circumstances, to dispense with the original \"mens rea\" entirely and rely solely on the voluntary intoxication to provide the fault element.\n\nThe case law on voluntary intoxication, and the \"Majewski\" doctrine, has focussed on intoxication by alcohol. In \"Lipman\" this was extended to the illegal drug LSD, well known for its hallucinative effects. In respect of other drugs, courts have restricted the scope of the \"Majewski\" formulation: in \"Bailey\", a diabetic's failure to eat as advised after taking a quantity of insulin was not considered voluntary intoxication; in \"Hardie\", a taker of diazepam (Valium) was similarly excluded. They established a further test, in order to exclude these types of defendants from a voluntary intoxication rule with a non-applicable public policy basis.\n\nBased on a physiological distinction that did not exist in a medical sense, the court distinguished between alcohol and illegal drugs on one hand, and \"therapeutic\" or \"merely soporific or sedative\" drugs on the other. Therefore, the question is twofold: to find voluntary intoxication, the defendant must appreciate that taking the drug may lead to \"aggressive, unpredictable and uncontrollable conduct\" (\"Bailey\"), but only generally speaking – he need not foresee any particular crime occurring.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4180517", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4180517", "title": "Workmen's Compensation (Occupational Diseases) Convention, 1925", "text": "Workmen's Compensation (Occupational Diseases) Convention, 1925\n\nWorkmen's Compensation (Occupational Diseases) Convention, 1925 is an International Labour Organization Convention.\n\nIt was established in 1925:\nHaving decided upon the adoption of certain proposals with regard to workmen's compensation for occupational diseases...\n\nThis Convention was subsequently revised in 1934 by Convention C42 - Workmen's Compensation (Occupational Diseases) Convention (Revised), 1934, and again in 1964 by Convention C121 - Employment Injury Benefits Convention, 1964.\n\nAs of 2013, the convention had been ratified by 68 states. Of the ratifying states, eight had subsequently denounced the treaty.\n\n"}
{"id": "48525696", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48525696", "title": "World Council of Optometry", "text": "World Council of Optometry\n\nThe World Council of Optometry (WCO) is a membership organization for the development of optometry (eye care) internationally.\n\nThe WCO is the first and only optometric organization to have official relations with the World Health Organization (WHO).\nIt represents 250,000 optometrists from 75 member organizations in over 40 countries.\nThe WCO organizes the World Congress of Optometry.\n\nIn 2015, the WCO relocated to the American Optometric Association (AOA) headquarters in St Louis, Missouri, United States.\n\n\n"}
