{"id": "554691", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=554691", "title": "A. S. Neill", "text": "A. S. Neill\n\nAlexander Sutherland Neill (17 October 1883 – 23 September 1973) was a Scottish educator and author known for his school, Summerhill, and its philosophies of freedom from adult coercion and community self-governance. Neill was raised in Scotland, where he was a poor student but became a schoolteacher. He taught in several schools across the country before attending the University of Edinburgh from 1908 to 1912. He took two jobs in journalism before World War I, and taught at Gretna Green Village School during the first year of the war, writing his first book, \"A Dominie's Log\" (1915), as a diary of his life as headteacher. He joined the staff of a school in Dresden in 1921, founding Summerhill upon his return to England in 1924. Summerhill received widespread renown in the 1920s to 1930s and then in the 1960s to 1970s, due to progressive and counter-culture interest. Neill wrote 20 books in his lifetime, and his best seller was the 1960 \"Summerhill\", a compilation of four previous books about his school. The book was a common ancestor to activists in the 1960s free school movement.\n\nAlexander Sutherland Neill was born in Forfar, Scotland, on 17 October 1883 to George and Mary Neill. He was their fourth son; one of the eight surviving children out of 13. He was raised in an austere, Calvinist house with values of fear, guilt, and adult and divine authority, which he later repudiated. As a child, he was obedient, quiet, and uninterested in school. His father was the village dominie (Scottish schoolmaster) of Kingsmuir, near Forfar in eastern Scotland, and his mother had been a teacher before her marriage. The village dominie held a position of prestige, hierarchically beneath that of upper classes, doctors, and clergymen. As typical of Scottish methods at the time, the dominie controlled overcrowded classrooms with his tawse, as corporal punishment. Neill feared his father, though he later claimed his father's imagination as a role model for good teaching. Scholars have interpreted Neill's harsh childhood as the impetus for his later philosophy, though his father was not shown to be harsher to Allie (as Neill was known) than to anyone else. Neill's mother (\"née\" Sutherland Sinclair) insisted on high standards for her family, and demanded comportment to set the family apart from the townspeople.\n\nChildren usually left the local school for Forfar Academy at the age of 14, and with his father a teacher, Neill was especially expected to do so. Instead of wasting time and money, Neill went to work as a junior clerk in an Edinburgh gas meter factory. His parents took pity on his hatred of the job, homesickness, and its low pay, and so Neill became an apprentice draper in Forfar. He found the work stultifying and came home after a foot inflammation. Neill tried to take an examination that would raise his pay grade, but could not bring himself to study. Now 15, his parents decided to make him his father's assistant \"pupil teacher\". The children liked Neill, though he received poor marks from a school inspector. He taught a wider range of topics as his self-confidence grew, and he developed an interest in mathematics from the Forfar Academy maths master. After four years, he tried for teacher training college, but came nearly last in his class. He continued as a pupil teacher in Bonnyrigg and Kingskettle, where he found the teachers' instruction militant and loathsome. He stayed in Kingskettle for three years, during which he learned Greek from a local priest, an experience that increased his interest in academicism and sublimated his interest in priesthood into a desire to attend university. After studying with the priest and the Forfar math master, Neill passed his university entrance exam and preliminary teacher's certification.\n\nNeill became an assistant teacher at the Newport Public School in the wealthy Newport-on-Tay, where he learned to dance and appreciate music and theatre. He also fell in love, and Margaret became an obsession of his. He adopted progressive techniques at this school, and abandoned the tawse for other forms of establishing discipline. Neill was friendly and relaxed with his pupils, and described his two years there as \"the happiest of [his] life thus far\". He finished his university entrance exams and received his full teaching certification.\n\nIn 1908, at the age of 25, Neill enrolled in the University of Edinburgh. He began as an agriculture student, at his father's behest for a well-salaried career, but switched to English literature by the end of his first year. Neill was excluded from cultural events due to his lack of funds, but participated in sports, showed interest in the military, and wrote for \"The Student\" (the university magazine) and the \"Glasgow Herald\". He became the student paper's editor during his last year, which opened Neill to a world of culture. He also felt more confident to pursue women. In his editorials, Neill criticized the tedium of lectures and the emphasis on tests instead of critical thinking. He began to develop his thoughts about the futility of forced education, and the axiom that all learning came from intrinsic interest. Neill graduated in 1912 and began to edit encyclopedias and similar reference books. He took a new job as art editor of the \"Piccadilly Magazine\", but its operations were halted by the 1914 onset of World War I, in which he served as an officer in the army. He returned to Scotland, working as a head teacher at Gretna Green School during the first year of the war. The diary he wrote for this year was published as a book, \"A Dominie's Log\", in November 1915 by Herbert Jenkins, and received good reviews for its humour and narrative style.\n\nNeill was invited to join a progressive school in Dresden in 1921. The school moved to a monastery near Vienna in 1923, where the townspeople did not receive it well. He moved to England in 1924 and started Summerhill in Lyme Regis, where the name came from the estate.\n\nThe school picked up some notoriety and the average enrollment was 40 pupils. In 1927, it moved to Leiston, where it remained.\n\nNeill credited Summerhill's environment instead of himself for the school's reformatory successes. Neill used to offer psychoanalytic therapy (\"private lessons\", since he was not a licensed therapist) for children who arrived as delinquents from other institutions, but later found love, affirmation, and freedom to be a better cure.\n\nThe Summerhill classroom was popularly assumed to reflect Neill's anti-authoritarian beliefs, though their classes were traditional in practice. Neill did not show outward interest in classroom pedagogy, and was mainly interested in student happiness. He did not consider lesson quality important, and thus there were no distinctive Summerhillian classroom methods. Leonard Waks wrote that, like Homer Lane, Neill thought all teaching should follow student interest, and that teaching method did not matter much once student interest was apparent. In a review of an algebra lesson taught by Neill as recounted through Herb Snitzer's \"Living at Summerhill\", Richard Bailey described Neill's teaching technique as \"simply awful\" for his lack of student engagement, inarticulate explanations, and insults directed at students. Bailey criticized Neill's absolution of responsibility for his pupils' academic performance, and his view that charismatic instruction was a form of persuasion that weakened child autonomy. Ronald Swartz referred to Neill's method as Socratic, about which Bailey disagreed.\n\nNeill was not religious. Despite this, he would flippantly remark that Summerhill was the only Christian school in England when its philosophy was compared with that of Christ. Neill saw the doctrine of \"original sin\" as a means of control and sought a world ruled by love and self-examination. Like Freud, he felt that children who were denied understanding of their sexuality in their youth became adults who were similarly fearful of their own sexuality.\n\nNeill felt that children (and human nature) were innately good, and that children naturally became just and virtuous when allowed to grow without adult imposition of morality. Children did not need to be coaxed or goaded into desirable behaviour, as their natural state was satisfactory and their natural inclinations \"in no way immoral\". If left alone, children would become self-regulating, reasonable and ethical adults. Together with Homer Lane, Neill supported personal freedoms for children to live as they please without adult interference, and called this position \"on the side of the child\". Neill's practice can be summarised as providing children with space, time, and empowerment for personal exploration and with freedom from adult fear and coercion.\n\nThe aim of life, to Neill, was \"to find happiness, which means to find interest.\" Likewise, the purpose of Neill's education was to be happy and interested in life, and children needed complete freedom to find their interests. Neill considered happiness an innate characteristic that deteriorated if children were denied personal freedom. Such unhappiness led to repressed and psychologically disordered adults. He blamed a \"sick and unhappy\" society for widespread unhappiness. Neill claimed that society harboured fears of life, children and emotions that were continually bequeathed to the next generation. He felt that children turned to self-hate and internal hostility when denied an outlet for expression in adult systems of emotional regulation and manipulation. Likewise, children taught to withhold their sexuality would see such feelings negatively, which would fuel disdain for self. Neill thought that calls for obedience quenched the natural needs of children. Moreover, their needs could not be fulfilled by adults or a society that simultaneously prolonged their unhappiness, although perhaps a school like Summerhill could help.\n\nAs for \"interest\", Neill felt it came organically and spontaneously as a prerequisite for learning. Neill considered forced instruction (without pupil interest) a destructive waste of time. Earlier in his career, he wrote that human interest releases emotions that otherwise congests a person. He added that education's role is to facilitate that release, with Summerhill actualizing this concept. Neill never defines \"true interest\" and does not account for the social influences on child interest. Bailey felt that this omission discredits Neill's position against external influence. Bailey also cited \"adaptive preferences\" literature, where human interests change based on their surroundings and circumstances, as evidence of how intrinsic interest can be externally influenced. Bailey also dubbed Neill's views on intelligence as \"innatist\" and fatalist — that children had naturally set capabilities and limitations. Neill saw contemporary interventionist practice as doing harm by emphasising conformity and stifling children's natural drive to do as they please.\n\nNeill did not identify with the progressive educators of his time. They advocated far gentler authority in child-rearing, which Neill considered more insidious than overt authority and altogether unnecessary. All imposed authority, even if meant well, was unjustified. He felt that adults asserted authority for its feelings of power, and that this motive was a type of repression. In Neill's philosophy, the goal was maintenance of happiness through avoidance of repressive habits from society. Despite Neill's common citation as a leader within progressive education, his ideas were considerably more radical, and he was called an extremist by other radicals. Unlike Friedrich Fröbel, Neill did not view children with romantic innocence. He saw their animalistic traits as qualities to be \"outgrown with time and freedom\". Neill also considered his role in providing emotional support.\n\nEmotional education trumped intellectual needs, in Neill's eyes, and he was associated with anti-intellectualism. In actuality, he had a personal interest in scholarship and used his autobiography near the end of his life to profess the necessity of both emotion and intellect in education, though he often took jabs at what he saw to be education's overemphasis on book-learning. Neill felt that an emotional education freed the intellect to follow what it pleased, and that children required an emotional education to keep up with their own gradual developmental needs. This education usually entailed copious amounts of play and distance from the adult anxieties of work and ambition. Neill was influenced by Sigmund Freud's theories of psychoanalysis, Homer Lane's interpretation of Freud, and later, by the unorthodox sexual theories of Wilhelm Reich. The reverence for Reich appears in the abundant correspondence between them. Neill accepted Reich's claims about cosmic energy and his utopian ideas on human sexuality. In Reich's view, \"discharge\" of sexual energy leads to happiness, whereas lack of such discharge leads to unhappiness and \"rigidity\". Although not a trained therapist, Neill gave psychoanalytic private lessons to individual children, designed to unblock impasses in their inner energies. Neill also offered body massage, as suggested by Reich. Neill later found that freedom cured better than this therapy.\n\nRichard Bailey placed Neill alongside William Godwin, Jean-Jacques Rousseau, Voltaire, and Robert Owen in Thomas Sowell's \"unconstrained vision\" tradition, where human potential is naturally unlimited and human development is dependent on environment and not incentives. Bailey also compared Neill's thoughts on coercion to those of Godwin, who felt that regulation through reward and punishment stunted growth. Neill saw moral instruction as a wedge between natural instinct and conformity and thought children were best off without it. Neill trusted the natural inclinations of children and saw no need to externally and purposefully influence their behaviour. Denis Lawton likened Neill's ideas to Rousseauan \"negative education\", where children discover for themselves instead of receiving instruction. Neill is commonly associated with Rousseau for their similar thoughts on human nature, although Neill claimed to not have read Rousseau's \"Emile, or On Education\" until near the end of his life. John Cleverley and D. C. Phillips declared Neill \"the most notable figure in the Rousseauean tradition\", and Frank Flanagan credited Neill with actualising what Rousseau envisaged. Marc-Alexandre Prud-homme and Giuliano Reis found the comparison \"inappropriate\" on the basis of Rousseau's views on gender.\n\nPeter Hobson found Neill's philosophy of education incomplete, oversimplified, without a \"coherent theory of knowledge\", and too dependent on his experience instead of philosophical position. When presented with Hobson's position, four experts on Neill and Summerhill considered his assertions \"irrelevant\". Joel Spring likened Neill's views on the family to that of Mary Wollstonecraft, in that the parents would share power equally.\n\nWhen Neill said children should be free, he did not mean complete freedom, but freedom without licence—that everyone can do as they like unless such action encroaches upon another's freedom. As such, adults could and should protect children from danger, but not trample their self-regulation. Neill emphasised that adult removal from child affairs was distinct from disregard for their security. He felt that children met their own limits naturally. Neill believed in equal rights between parents and children, and that undesirable \"disciplined\" or \"spoiled\" homes were created when those rights were imbalanced. He felt it unnecessary to fulfil all of childhood's requests and had great disdain for spoiled children. Summerhill children were naturally restricted by the school's limited teaching expertise and low funds.\n\nBailey wrote that Neill did not have full faith in self-regulation due to his emphasis on the necessity of making specific environments for children. Robin Barrow argued that Neill's idea of self-regulation was contradictory, when its intent was, more simply, the extent to which children need to abide by external restraints. Bailey added that children cannot know the extent to which dull and unknown subjects can be exciting without guidance. He felt that Neill's belief in children's innate and realistic wisdom did not accommodate human characteristics \"such as error, prejudice, and ignorance\", ascribed genius-level intelligence to children, and did not consider social aspects in child decision-making.\n\nSelf-governance was a central idea to Summerhill, and is perhaps its \"most fundamental feature\". Summerhill held a weekly general meeting that decided the school's rules and settled school disputes, where every member of the community—staff and student alike—had a single vote. Almost everyone in the school attended the meeting, and children always held the majority. Meetings were managed by an elected Chairperson. At times, the school had over 200 rules.\n\nSummerhill sought to produce individualists conscious of their surrounding social order, and Neill chose the self-governance of Homer Lane's Little Commonwealth for the basis of that lesson. The general meeting replaced teacher authority with communal control, which freed teachers from their roles as disciplinarians and instructed children in the role of democratic participation and the role of rules. Additionally, reports of teacher–student disputes were rare. Neill felt that the community's authority never created resentment in those subject to sanctions. Sven Muller contended that the meeting was more useful than discipline for creating civic-minded citizens. An ex-pupil recalled some of the wild ideas Neill would propose at the meeting, and while the students would vote him down, she later recounted how the exercise was also intended as a lesson for the staff on the power of the meeting and communal authority. Neill considered self-governance \"the most valuable asset in education and life\" and the general meeting \"more important than all the textbooks in the world\".\n\nOn occasion, Neill exercised unilateral decision-making as the owner of the school, despite his emphasis on the authority figure-less nature of the school. Instances include when he once made a decision after the group's discussion protracted, and when he once asserted himself dictator. Ultimately, the school's freedom was Neill's to structure.\n\nNeill wrote 20 books in his lifetime. His style was simple and friendly, unlike didactic literature from the era. His topics included the balance of authority and the thoughts–feelings relationship.\n\nThe 1960 release of \"Summerhill\" catapulted Neill into the public view. Richard Bailey described its result as \"an American cult\" of Summerhillian schools and their support organizations. The book sold well and made Neill into a figurehead of new interest in education. Bailey added that the unpretentious book's message was easier to impart than Deweyan thought, and that its release inspired Neill's education critic contemporaries as to the viability of their ideas.\n\nCritics regard Neill's influence and importance with mixed opinion. Supporters counted Neill amongst the world's most influential educationists. UNESCO listed Neill within its 100 most important educationists worldwide. The \"Times Educational Supplement\" listed him in its 12 most important British educationists of the millennium. Herb Kohl declared Neill \"one of the greatest democratic educators of the last century\" in 2005. Academics and teachers cited Summerhill as the common ancestor for free schools, and Neill was poised to become a public figure during Summerhill's heyday in the 1970s. Its detractors do not classify Summerhill as a school. Max Rafferty called Summerhill \"a caricature of education\" and felt threatened by the implications of \"the spread of Neill's hedonism to the majority of the next generation\". Others criticized Neill for his progressive ideals despite agreement on his critique of traditional schools, and bemoaned his \"outdated radicalism\" and \"dangerously enthusiastic following in teaching training institutions\".\n\nRichard Bailey wrote that Summerhill received most of its public attention in the 1920s to 1930s and in the 1960s to 1970s, which were milieux of social change (progressivism and the counterculture, respectively). Neill was known in British education circles by the 1920s and was \"probably Britain's first educational celebrity\" in the 1930s, though he was not driven by his reception. Journal reviews called Neill \"the most popular writer on education today\" and said of his works, \"Nearly all the more alive and up-to-date teachers in Britain have read and argued about his notions\". He was known via his books as a figure in the new psychoanalysis. The accessible 1960 \"Summerhill\" crowned Neill the leader of a new avant-garde education and he became symbolic of the rebel decade.\n\nNeill is generally associated with democratic schools as a leader in its tradition. H. A. T. Child associated Summerhill with the Bedales School, Alfred the Great, and Child's Dartington Hall School, and David Gribble wrote about schools around the world following Neill's teachings in 1998. Timothy Gray linked the release of \"Summerhill\" with the rise of writers Herb Kohl, Jonathan Kozol, Neil Postman, and Ivan Illich. Scholars debate whether Neill fits best in a progressive or more radical tradition.\n\nFew of Neill's acolytes continued his work after his death. His family maintained Summerhill, with Neill's daughter as its headmaster . Others influenced by Neill included John Aitkenhead, Michael Duane, and R. F. Mackenzie. Richard Bailey wrote that Maria Montessori and Rudolf Steiner's followers were more evangelical in character, and that Neill deterred would-be devotees. He specifically discouraged American association with his school in both name and likeness. By 1972, Ray Hemmings wrote that Neill's ideas were misinterpreted in the hands of other schools. Hemmings found Neill to have moderate influence on state schools in areas such as teacher–student interactions. Neill's views on sexuality and non-compulsory lessons did not have widespread acceptance. Herb Snitzer said that Neill \"influenced thousand of teachers\". Both George Dennison and Bailey felt Neill's influence to not be easily measurable, with Dennison adding that non-Summerhill schools continue to adopt Neillian thought.\n\nNeill was awarded three honorary degrees: a master's and two honorary doctorates. One doctorate was from the Newcastle University in 1966. He was reportedly very proud of the awards.\n\n"}
{"id": "3088926", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3088926", "title": "Academy of Nutrition and Dietetics", "text": "Academy of Nutrition and Dietetics\n\nThe Academy of Nutrition and Dietetics is the United States' largest organization of food and nutrition professionals, and represents over 100,000 credentialed practitioners — registered dietitian nutritionists, dietetic technicians, registered, and other dietetics professionals holding undergraduate and advanced degrees in nutrition and dietetics. After nearly 100 years as the American Dietetic Association, the organization officially changed its name to the Academy of Nutrition and Dietetics in 2012. The organization's members are primarily registered dietitian nutritionists (RDNs) and nutrition and dietetic technicians, registered (NDTR) as well as many researchers, educators, students, nurses, physicians, pharmacists, clinical and community dietetics professionals, consultants and food service managers.\n\nThe Academy has faced controversy regarding corporate influence related to its relationship with the food industry and funding from corporate groups such as McDonald's, Coca-Cola, Mars, and others.\n\nThe Academy of Nutrition and Dietetics was founded in 1917 in Cleveland, Ohio, by a group of women led by Lenna F. Cooper and the Academy's first president, Lulu G. Graves, who were dedicated to helping the government conserve food and improve public health during World War I. It is now headquartered in Chicago, Illinois.\n\nThe original mission of the Academy was in part to help make maximal use of America's food resources during wartime. In its first year, the Academy attracted 58 members. It remained a small organization, remaining under the 1,000 member mark until the 1930s. As the group's scope expanded, so did its membership numbers. Between the 1930s and 1960s, membership skyrocketed to more than 60,000. Growth trajectory has since stabilized, and the Academy marked its 70,000th member when a female dietitian in Texas rejoined the Academy in May 2009. Since its founding in 1917, the Academy has gained members in every decade.\nAn authorized seal for the organization was adopted by the Executive Board and presented to members on October 24, 1940. At its center are symbols of the three main characteristics of the profession: a balance scale, representing science as the foundation and symbolizing equality; a caduceus, representing the close relationship between dietetics and medicine; and a cooking vessel, representing cookery and food preparation. Around the main design is a shaft of wheat, representing bread, the staff of life, and stylized acanthus leaves, representing growth and life. Over the design is a cornucopia, representing an abundant food supply. Beneath the design is the motto, Quam Plurimis Prodesse (\"To benefit as many as possible\"). Around the edge is the name of the organization and the date of its founding written in Roman numerals.\n\nThe seal is still in use on Registration Status Certificates for both registered dietitians and dietetic technicians, registered, as well as on the gold Member Pin.\n\nAccording to current Academy president Sylvia Escott Stump, the group changed their name to the Academy of Nutrition and Dietetics in 2012 to reflect the scientific and academic expertise of its members.\n\nIn 1973, the Academy created “National Nutrition Week.” The theme the first year was \"Invest in Yourself...Buy Nutrition.” On May 9, 2010, the Academy proclaimed “Registered Dietitian's Day” to honor the “indispensable providers of food and nutrition services and to recognize RDs for their commitment to helping people enjoy healthy lives.” The association also sponsors “National Nutrition Month” in March in the U.S.\n\nIn 2015, the Academy of Nutrition and Dietetics had disclosed net assets of $48 million, the bulk of which was in cash and investments. It took in $11.3M in annual membership dues, and an additional $7.4M in registration and examination fees. In 2015, it took in $35.2 million in revenue on expenses of $38.4M for an operating loss of $3.4M. After accounting for return on investments, the Academy posted a deficit of $544,722 for the 2015 fiscal year. In the same year, they received $1.1 million in corporate sponsorships from companies like General Mills, Coca-Cola and PepsiCo via donations, joint initiatives, and programs.\n\nThe Academy has offices both in Chicago and Washington DC. In addition to the Academy, the organization maintains several other organizations and entities, including the Commission on Dietetic Registration, Commission on Accreditation for Dietetics Education, Dietetic Practice Groups, Academy Political Action Committee, and Academy Foundation. There are also several “member interest groups” which include more than 4,800 members with common interests or specialties including Fifty Plus in Nutrition and Dietetics; Filipino Americans in Dietetics and Nutrition; Muslims in Dietetics and Nutrition; and National Organization of Blacks in Dietetics and Nutrition.\n\nIn 1966, the Academy of Nutrition and Dietetics established the Foundation as a 501(C)(3) public charity. According to its mission statement, the Foundation is the “only charitable organization devoted exclusively to promoting good nutrition.” Its mission is to advance public health and nutrition with focus on three initiatives: scholarships, Healthy Weight for Kids and food and nutrition research.\n\nIn 2011, the Foundation had charitable contributions and revenues of $4.23 million, of which $1.7 million went to program expenses, $540,000 went to administrative expenses, and $289,000 went to fund raising expenses. Its executive director, Mary Beth Whalen, is paid $215,000 per year. These figures earned the Foundation a 60.95/70 score by CharityNavigator.com (four stars for transparency, three stars for its financials).\n\nIn 2011, the Foundation received corporate contributions totaling around $1.2 million from organizations such as Nestle, Kelloggs, Mars, Inc Coca-Cola and the National Cattlemen's Beef Association, as well as a $500,000 donation industrial food giant General Mills to promote healthy eating for kids.\n\nThrough its research journal, the Academy shapes and influences the public and legislative discussion about health, food safety and nutrition. Academy RD's are regularly quoted in world publications such as \"The New York Times\", Wall Street Journal, USA Today, Los Angeles Times Men's Fitness, O Magazine, Consumer Reports, Forbes and Huffington Post. In 2010, the organization received approximately 30 billion media impressions.\n\nAs an organization and research institute, the Academy holds a variety of influential health positions, including:\n\nThe Academy of Nutrition and Dietetics publishes position papers on public health regarding pediatric (children's) health, food technology, food safety, geriatrics (elderly) health, health-care reform, obesity and food and nutrition topics through the \"Journal of the Academy of Nutrition and Dietetics\" (\"ANDJ\").\n\nThe Academy has also published 3 editions of the \"American Dietetic Association Complete Food and Nutrition Guide.\" Through its publishing arm, the Academy has published such books and guides as \"Easy Gluten-Free\", \"ADA Pocket Guide to Eating Disorders\", \"ADA Pocket Guide to Lipid Disorders, Hypertension, Diabetes and Weight Management\", \"ADA Quick Guide to Drug-Supplement Interactions\" and \"Making Nutrition Your Business\". It also maintains the site eatright.org.\n\nIn the 1980s, the Academy published the magazine Food/2 which had originally been created by the U.S. Department of Agriculture. In response pressure from meat, egg, and dairy industries, the Department of Agriculture decided not publish it, after which the Academy negotiated with the government to publish it itself, omitting the controversial chapters on fat and cholesterol. The decision was widely criticized, with participating dietitians stating \"it is just incredible that they would publish it without the most important part.\"\n\nThe Academy of Nutrition and Dietetics certification process offers two career options: Registered Dietitian Nutritionist (RDN) and Nutrition and Dietetics Technician, Registered (NDTR). Both are educated nutrition professionals qualified to work in hospitals, academia and private practice, and differ mostly in the hours of training and level of college degree required. A Registered Dietitian Nutritionist must complete a bachelor's degree or higher and more than 900 hours of training, while a Dietetic Technician is required to complete and associate level degree and 450 hours of training. About 72% of the Academy's members are Registered Dietitian Nutritionists, and 2% are Nutrition Dietetic Technicians, Registered. Members are granted these accredited titles by fulfilling the Academy's strenuous certification requirements in addition to any state or local regulations. Through its ADAF foundation, the Academy issued nearly $500,000 in certification scholarships in 2011, $100,000 of which went to doctoral students.\n\nThe terms “Registered Dietitian Nutritionist” and “Nutrition Dietetic Technician, Registered” are “legally protected titles” and can be used only by someone who has completed coursework approved by the Academy. In recent years, the AND has lobbied for stricter regulation over the professional licensing of dietitian and nutrition professionals and supported state regulations that would include heavy fines for the dispensing of nutritional advice without the proper license.\n\nThe Academy of Nutrition and Dietetics's Accreditation Council for Education in Nutrition and Dietetics (ACEND) is the organization's accrediting agency for education programs that prepare individuals for careers as dietetics professionals. Prior to 2011, ACEND was known as the Commission on Accreditation for Dietetics Education (CADE). The Accreditation Council is recognized by the Department of Education and is a member of the Association of Specialized and Professional Accreditors. The council's fees earn the Academy over $1 million per year.\n\nAccording to the Academy of Nutrition and Dietetics, a Registered Dietitian Nutritionist is a “food and nutrition expert” who has fulfilled the minimum requirements for the titled RD.\n\nRequirements include the following items:\n\nApproximately 50% of RDs hold advanced degrees. Some RDNs also hold additional certifications in specialized areas of practice, such as pediatric or renal nutrition, nutrition support and diabetes education. In addition to any Academy requirements (and often with some overlap), many states have laws for dietitians and nutrition practitioners.\n\nAccording to the Academy of Nutrition and Dietetics, NDTRs are “a food and nutrition practitioner” who has fulfilled the minimum requirements for the title NDTR.\n\nThese requirements, while similar to an RD, differ in that they require:\n\nNDTR's typically work closely with RD in numerous employment settings such as hospitals, health care facilities, private practice, day care centers, correctional facilities and weight loss centers. The Academy application fee to become an NDTR is $120.\n\nTo help better communications with the US government, the Academy of Nutrition and Dietetics has offices in Washington, DC. They also operate their own political action committee, the Academy's Political Action Committee. The Academy spent $5.8 million lobbying at the state and national level from 2000–2010.\n\nA 1985 report noted the Academy has supported licensing for dispensing nutritional advice. In addition to supporting legislation regulating the professional nutrition field in states like Colorado, Wyoming, Hawaii, New Jersey and New York, the Academy has also applied for patents for its certification titles such as: “Certified Nutrition Coach,” “Certified Nutrition Professional,” “Registered Nutrition Professional,” and “Certified Nutrition Educator.” The Academy states that by regulating who can provide nutritional counseling, they can protect their registered members and the public from unregulated advice or possibly inaccurate advice from less qualified dietary practitioners such as chiropractors, yoga instructors, homeopaths, and personal trainers. The Academy's support of this legislation has generated strong opposition from alternative health practitioners and libertarian groups, who state that \"highly restrictive bills could create a monopoly for one school of traditional nutrition thought\" and that the primary intent of the bill is \"not to protect the public, but to give clout and recognition to a single segment of dietitians, increasing their chances of obtaining reimbursement from insurance companies.\"\n\nThe Academy of Nutrition and Dietetics and the ADA Foundation launched their first joint initiative, Kids Eat Right, in November 2010. This member-driven campaign is dedicated to supporting the efforts of the White House to end the childhood obesity epidemic within a generation. Kids Eat Right is a two-tiered campaign aimed to mobilize Academy members to participate in community and school childhood obesity prevention efforts, and also to educate families, communities, and policy makers about the importance of quality nutrition.\n\nKids Eat Right has a website that gives families healthy eating tips, articles, videos, and recipes from registered dietitians. Kids Eat Right also has scientifically-based health information centered around the theme \"Shop-Cook-Eat\" which has information about how to shop for healthy foods, how to cook foods with the most nutrient value, and gives the benefits of eating together at home and away from home.\n\nThe Academy of Nutrition and Dietetics has been criticized for its connections to the pharmaceutical industry, including an inquiry from Senator Chuck Grassley.\n\nIn 1982, the organization faced mass resignations from members over a decision to support President Ronald Reagan's cuts in food stamps and school lunch programs. The decision was largely a political trade-off; the Reagan administration agreed to drop its proposal to deregulate nursing homes in exchange for the Academy's support of the school lunch and food stamp cuts.\n\nA 1995 report noted the Academy received funding from companies like McDonald's, PepsiCo, The Coca-Cola Company, Sara Lee, Abbott Nutrition, General Mills, Kellogg's, Mars, McNeil Nutritionals, SOYJOY, Truvia, Unilever, and The Sugar Association as corporate sponsorship. The Academy also partners with ConAgra Foods, which produces Orville Redenbacker, Slim Jims, Hunt's Ketchup, SnackPacks, and Hebrew National hot dogs, to maintain the American Dietetic Association/ConAgra Foods Home Food Safety...It's in Your Hands program. Additionally, the Academy earns revenue from corporations by selling space at its booth during conventions, doing this for soft drinks and candy makers.\n\nIn April 2013, a dietitian working on a panel charged with setting policy on genetically modified foods for the academy contended she was removed for pointing out that two of its members had ties to Monsanto, one of the biggest makers of genetically modified seeds. The resulting controversy highlighted the fact that Ms. Smith Edge, chairwoman of the committee charged with developing the GMO policy, is a senior vice president at the International Food Information Council, which is largely financed by food, beverage and agriculture businesses, including companies like DuPont, Bayer CropScience and Cargill, companies that were among the biggest financial opponents of a State of California GMO labeling initiative.\n\nThe Academy maintains that being at the \"same table\" with food companies is important in order to exert a positive influence over their products and message, although critics describe this as an “unhealthy alliance” between the Academy and junk food companies. The accusation is that despite what good may come of such programs, it ultimately whitewashes (similar to the greenwashing efforts of environmentally irresponsible companies) the brand's role in the country's food ecosystem. Watchdogs note that the Academy rarely criticizes food companies, believing it to be out of fear of \"biting the hand that feeds them.\" Nutrition expert Marion Nestle opined that she believed that as long as the AND partners with the makers of food and beverage products, “its opinions about diet and health will never be believed [to be] independent.” Public health lawyer Michele Simon, who researches and writes about the food industry and food politics, has voiced similar concerns stating, \"AND [is] deeply embedded with the food industry, and often communicate[s] messaging that is industry friendly.\" A 2011 survey found that 80% of Academy members are critical of the Academy's position. They believe that the Academy is endorsing corporate sponsors and their products when it allows their sponsorship.\n\nIn March 2015, Academy had endorsed Kraft Singles cheese product with the 'Kids Eat Right' label. Due to negative publicity, they entered into negotiations with Kraft to cancel this endorsement.\n\nThe organization also publishes nutrition facts sheets for the general public, which food companies pay $20,000 to take part in writing the documents. A list of these publications for the general public include:\nThis industry funding also gives food companies the ability to offer official educational seminars to teach dietitians how to advise their clients in a way that advances the interests of the food company. For instance, in a Coca-Cola sponsored seminar for dietitians, the speaker promoted free sugars consumption for children as a healthy choice.\n\nThe \"Journal of the Academy of Nutrition and Dietetics\" (\"JAND\"), formerly titled the \"Journal of the American Dietetic Association\" (\"JADA\"), is a monthly peer-reviewed publication involved in the dietetics field, with original research, critical reviews, and reports on dietetics and human nutrition.\n\n"}
{"id": "21326542", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21326542", "title": "Accademia Italiana di Lingua", "text": "Accademia Italiana di Lingua\n\nThe Accademia Italiana di Lingua (AIL) is a professional association of schools, institutions and experts in the field of teaching Italian as a foreign language. They organise instruction and testing of students interested in having a diploma for Italian language studies. The AIL initiated the first diploma exams for the study of modern Italian.\n\nThe \"Accademia Italiana di Lingua\" (\"Italian Academy of Languages\") was founded in Florence in 1984 as a non profit association between private and public schools, teaching Italian as a second and a foreign language. The Association was supported by the European Council's recommendations suggesting a range of diverse levels of competence.\n\nThe first exam the Association conceived was the DALI, C1 advanced level (1984) followed by DILI, B1 intermediate level (1993) and the last one was the DELI, A1/A2 basic level (1995).\n\nThe DALC, C1 advanced commercial language's diploma was introduced in 1995, while the DILC, B1 intermediate commercial language's diploma dates back 2002.\n\nStarting from 2005, the AIL offer range has grown rich with DILI B2, Intermediate level 2 exam which, being included between DILI B1 and DALI C1, goes to check the candidates' linguistic abilities on B2 level.\n\nSince 2007 the AIL DILC - B1 Examination has been recognized by the UFFT (Swiss Federal Office for professional education and technology) as final Exam of Italian as a second national language for all the professional commercial schools of the Helvetic Confederation.\n\nThe AIL organizes preparation courses for every level in their exam centers.\n\nAIL offers the following exams:\n\nAll of these exams are offered four times a year.\n\nDiploma examinations \"Firenze\" in written and spoken Italian for various ability levels are held two or four times a year. Testing centres are located in Italy, Croatia, Serbia, and Switzerland. The exams are one of a kind, and the correction of the written portions along with final evaluation are carried out in the main Florence office in order to guarantee uniform evaluation for all students.\n\nThe Qualification is open to all foreign applicants wishing to validate their abilities in Italian language once registered.\n\nDiploma examinations \"Firenze\" in written and spoken Italian for the various ability levels are held four times a year in examination centers worldwide.\nAn applicant wishing to obtain an Italian Language diploma “Firenze” must register and pay (prices varying) at least one month before the official sitting of the exam in order to sit the examination that seems suitable for him/her. When an applicant has completed the exam, the AIL evaluates it according to European Union guidelines and awards the official qualification three months after its sitting. The exams are one of a kind and the correction of the written portions as well as the final evaluation are carried out in the main Florence office in order to guarantee a uniform evaluation. Candidates who receive the qualification do so through successfully passing one of the examinations.\n\nThe AIL has designed preparation courses which last from one to twelve months depending on the level of Italian that the candidate must have in order to take the examination. Each school or institution affiliated with AIL is an examination center and each examination center regularly offers preparation courses.\n"}
{"id": "35809363", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35809363", "title": "Amazing Alex", "text": "Amazing Alex\n\nAmazing Alex was a physics-based puzzle game created by Rovio Entertainment, the developer of popular multiplatform strategy puzzle video game \"Angry Birds\". Initially it was announced by Rovio's CEO Mikael Hed on Yle's breakfast television. The game was based on \"Casey's Contraptions\", a game created by Noel Llopis (Snappy Touch) and Miguel Ángel Friginal (Mystery Coconut), whose rights were acquired by Rovio. \nThe game featured educational elements and revolved around Alex, described as a curious boy with interest in building things. The goal of the game was to make various Rube Goldberg-type chain reaction machines work. The game was very similar to The Incredible Machine, originally released in 1993.\n\nOn April 13, 2015, the game was removed from the App Store and Google Play.\n\nFor this game, players would put the given object to the place where players must put to it. In \"Levels of the Week\", \"Downloaded Levels\" and \"My Levels\", the game was automatically completed when you collected all 3 stars.\n\n\nHarry Slater of \"Pocket Gamer\" gave the game a Bronze Award, and called it an \"addictive experience\" but that \"compared to Angry Birds, there's less excitement involved\".\n\n"}
{"id": "34487569", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34487569", "title": "Art Authority", "text": "Art Authority\n\nArt Authority LLC works with museum professionals, artists, and art authorities to make art accessible, through both digital technology and museum-quality print reproductions. Art Authority obtains licensing and pays royalties and copyrights to expand awareness for the fine arts and to financially support museums. Through the Art Authority app, a media viewing software application for Apple's iOS and Macintosh, Art Authority LLC connects art lovers to a comprehensive digital database of art and museums. The top-selling application provides a virtual museum interface in which users can access a large collection of classic western paintings and sculptures by over a thousand artists. A special K-12 edition for the iPad displays only age-appropriate images.\n\nQuality art reproductions are distributed worldwide through 1000museums.com allowing art lovers to decorate their spaces with their favorite art pieces. 1000museums.com has a variety of artwork from across history, including illustrations and posters from the Library of Congress and famous artworks by noted artists. Art Authority LLC acquired 1000museums.com 2016 to further combine technology and art reproductions, increasing access the to artwork and museums.\n\nArt Authority is created and maintained by Open Door Networks and Project A. A partnership with Bridgeman Art Library to enable users to order reproductions of works from the app was announced on May 30, 2012 and implemented as Prints on Demand on September 25, 2012.\n\nA key aspect of Art Authority is its database of 100,000 works of art, over 1,500 artists and over 900 museums and other art locations. This database is utilized by apps such as Art Alert, The Art Channel on Apple TV and Web sites such as the Art Authority community site.\n\nThe app was upgraded for the iPad (3rd generation) retina display concurrently with the release of that iPad, and included on a number of \"Best retina-ready app\" lists. \"Exploring Art with Art Authority,\" an e-book companion to the Art Authority app line, available through the iBookstore, was introduced on April 18, 2012.\n\nAccess to videos for many of the app's major works was added in December, 2013.\n\nThe iPad version of the app has been used, among other places, in Seton Hill University art history classes since 2010.\n\nArt Authority was one of seven applications shown by senior VP Phil Schiller in Apple's January 19, 2012 education-focused special event at the Solomon R. Guggenheim Museum in New York City. The K12 version was selected as one of five \"Real-World Learning\" apps by Apple on June 25, 2015, at which time Apple also made available a free iBook-based set of \"Lesson Ideas\" for the app.\n\nIn August 2016, Art Authority announced that it had acquired art website 1000museums.com. 1000museums.com is a website that aims to connect people with museums across the globe through the selling of archival reproduction prints both in-store and online. As stated on their website, 1000museums.com's goal is to \"build the most robust community of art and cultural institutions in the world, broadening their engagement with culture-seekers near and far.\" Museums the website has partnered with include the Louvre, the Guggenheim Museum, and the Van Gogh Museum.\n"}
{"id": "10711041", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10711041", "title": "At-risk students", "text": "At-risk students\n\nAn at-risk student is a term used in the United States to describe a student who requires temporary or ongoing intervention in order to succeed academically. At risk students, sometimes referred to as at-risk youth or at-promise youth, are also adolescents who are less likely to transition successfully into adulthood and achieve economic self-sufficiency. Characteristics of at-risk students include emotional or behavioral problems, truancy, low academic performance, showing a lack of interest for academics, and expressing a disconnection from the school environment.\n\nThe term \"at-risk\" came into use after the 1983 article \"A Nation at Risk,\" published by the National Commission on Excellence in Education. The article described United States society as being economically and socially endangered. At-risk students are those students who have been labeled, either officially or unofficially, as being in danger of academic failure. In the U.S., different states define \"at-risk\" differently, so it is difficult to compare the varying state policies on the subject.\n\nStudents who are labeled as \"at-risk\" face a number of challenges that other students do not. According to Becky Smerdon's research for the American Institutes for Research, students, especially boys, with low socioeconomic status (and therefore more likely to be labeled \"at-risk\") show feelings of isolation and estrangement in their schools. Educational philosopher Gloria Ladson-Billings claimed in a 2006 speech that the label itself actually contributes to the challenges. Her view is that, \"We cannot saddle these babies at kindergarten with this label and expect them to proudly wear it for the next 13 years, and think, 'Well, gee, I don't know why they aren't doing good.'\"\n\nYouth that come from low socio-economic status are more likely to be labeled “at-risk.” Impoverished environments can create several risk factors for youth, making them increasingly vulnerable to risk-behaviors and impacted life outcomes as they grow. Growing up in poverty is associated with several risk factors, including those social-behavioral (for example substance abuse), environmental (violent neighborhoods), ecological, and familial (exposure to psychological imbalance). These risk factors are shown to have negative correlations with academic achievement, and positive correlations with problem behaviors. Youth living in households with income under 50% of the federal poverty level are those most vulnerable.\n\nGrowing up in a stable two-parent household is associated with better health, academic achievement, and social skills like healthy interaction with peers. Studies have shown changes in structure, such as parental divorce, co-habitation, and remarriage, have strong negative relationships between multiple transitions and academic success. Children who are exposed to domestic violence, criminal activity, or substance abuse have a much higher chance of long-term behavioral problems, such as alcoholism and drug abuse and mental health problems.\n\nSchools can place students “at-risk” by leaving them without academic skills and preparedness. School environments can often be places of struggle for many adolescent youth. Bullying in particular is likely to lead to student disengagement putting students at risk for behavioral problems and school dropout.\n\nHigh poverty neighborhoods are often characterized by high crime rates, limited resources, and underperforming schools. Schools with fewer resources are more likely to be associated with poor academic outcomes. Fewer resources means low teacher student ratios, low student spending, and lower overall academic performance. These neighborhoods often lack the resources needed to help youth overcome risk factors.\n\nMinority youth, particularly African-Americans and Latino youth, face many barriers to self-sufficiency that white students are less likely to face. Racial discrimination often leads to violence, bullying, and also hinders youth employment opportunity. African-Americans and minorities are more likely to live in high poverty environments characterized by underperforming schools with limited resources and therefore have a higher chance of academic failure. Immigrant youth also face several challenges with adapting to the culture and experience intensified problems such as language barriers and legal battles.\n\nTo much surprise of the general public in recent years social scientists* have realized that it is not simply the minority youth who are at risk, but also affluent youth who come from privileged homes (educated parents beyond college, upper middle class living). “America’s newly identified at-risk group is preteens and teens from affluent, well-educated families,\" writes Madeline Levine, author of the \"Price of Privilege.\" She goes on to say, \"In spite of their economic and social advantages, they experience among the highest rates of depression, substance abuse, anxiety disorders, somatic complaints, and unhappiness of any group of children in this country…. These new findings should in no way minimize concern about those children traditionally considered to be at risk. Rather it should open our eyes to the fact that money, education, power, prestige, and material goods offers no protection against unhappiness or emotional illness. We need to seriously examine the culture of affluence—what it values, what it neglects, and what it disparages—to find clues to the disrepair of so many of its children.” What we have always assumed to be a problem of poverty, has now become a problem of the privileged, as well. While grades in school may not always be a symptom, other issues such as substance abuse, delinquency, and mental issues may surface in these new \"at-risk\" youth.\n\nThere are several different forms of interventions for at-risk youth. Interventions are generally considered effective if they have positive impacts on individuals' risk behavior, academic achievement, pro-social behavior, sexual behavior, and psychological adjustment. Effective interventions can also serve as a preventative measure for future risk behavior.\n\nThe sooner at-risk students are identified, the more likely that preventative \"remediation\" measures will be effective. Examples of remediation include: \n\nPsychologists have recognized that many youth adjust properly despite being raised in high risk circumstances. This capacity to cope with adversity, even being strengthened by it, is crucial to developing resilience; or the human capacity to face, overcome, and ultimately be strengthened by life's adversities and challenges.\n\nPsychological resilience is an important character trait for youth trying to mitigate risk factors. Resilience is used to describe the qualities that aid in the successful adaptation, life-transition, and social competence of youth despite risk and adversity. Resilience is manifested by having a strong sense of purpose and a belief in success; including goal direction, education aspirations, motivation, persistence, and optimism. Getting youth involved in extracurricular activities is important in building resilience and remediation. Particularly, those involving cooperative approaches such as peer helping, cross age mentoring, and community service. Data examined from a nationally funded study has shown that teachers can promote academic resilience in students at risk for failure in mathematics through creating safe school environments which emphasize support and the development of strong teacher-student relationships. These factors were associated with the academic resilience and achievement of low-income Latino, White, and African-American elementary school students. Teachers can further contribute to a strong classroom environment for students who face risk factors by holding all students accountable to expectations that are both high and realistic for the given student. \n\nChildhood trauma is detrimental and can be damaging during emotional development. Overcoming trauma contributes significantly to resilience. Many youth that have experienced trauma have an inability to cope with and adjust to new surroundings. Trauma overwhelms one’s ability to cope and may lead them to isolate against the fears of modern life, often viewing the world as a threatening or dangerous place. These students distrust others, including adults, and because of traumatic experiences rely on themselves to keep safe. New or unexpected stimuli can often trigger traumatic flash-backs. Slamming doors, loud announcements, students and teachers shouting can trigger instant terror within a child who has suffered from trauma. Teachers are critical in nurturing and building resilience in at-risk students exposed to trauma. Although, being empowered to participate in their own healing, gives young people a sense of self-control, safety, and purpose.\n\nJuvenile delinquency and school dropout are a significant problem in Canada. In 2010 37% of youth self-reported engaging in one or more delinquent behaviors such as acts of violence, acts against property, and the sale of drugs. Canadian boys are twice as likely as girls to engage in violent behavior but about equal in crimes against property. In 2010 the rate of those accused of a crime peaked at 18 years of age and generally decreased with age.\nSchool dropout rates between 2009 and 2010 were around 10% of young males and 7% of young women. Only 44% of children in foster care graduate from high school compared to 81% of their peers.\n\nA large percentage of youth in Mexico are considered at-risk and many engage in negative behaviors. 30% of Mexican youth ages 12–24 drop out of school and remain unemployed and inactive after age 18. Another 30% of Mexican youths have never participated in any extra-curricular activities outside of a school setting. Many risk factors for Mexican youth are the same as those identified in the United States, however; poverty is a more prevalent influencing factor.\n\nLaunched by the United States Agency for International Development (USAID) and the International Youth Foundation (YIF) the Youth:Work Mexico program focuses on putting youth to work and creating a safe space for disadvantaged youth. By the end of 2014 7,500 Mexican youth will have participated in youth camps and after school programs. Nearly 2,000 at-risk youth will have been prepared by job training programs.\n\nTitle I is one of the largest United States federal programs in K-12 education.Title I provides financial resources to schools, particularly those in low socio-economic communities, to ensure that low-income students meet challenging state academic standards.\n\nBig Brothers Big Sisters of America is a program that establishes meaningful monitored mentoring between volunteers and at risk youth ages 6–18. Big Brothers Big Sisters is the largest donor and volunteer supported mentoring network in the United States. The organizations mission is to provide children facing adversity with strong, enduring, and professional one-to-one connections that forever change their lives for the better.\n\nReading Rockets is a United States government funded project that supports the needs of at-risk youth by offering research based reading strategies, lessons, and activities designed to help children learn to read and read better. The program aims to help struggling readers build fluency, vocabulary, and comprehension skills.\n\nYMCA, or The Y, is an organization that promotes youth development, healthy living, and social responsibility. Over the years, the Y has provided various programming, some directed towards at-risk youth. The Y has engaged with social issues such as racial solidarity, job training, and classes for people with disabilities. \n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4279996", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4279996", "title": "Beavers (Scouting)", "text": "Beavers (Scouting)\n\nBeavers is one name for programs associated with Scouting for young children usually aged 5 to 7. A participant in the program is called a Beaver. A group of Beavers is often called a \"Colony\". The programme is based on co-operating and sharing. Some Scouting organizations have programs for similar ages but use different names such as Keas or Joeys.\n\nThe Beavers program was originated in Northern Ireland in the 1960s to provide a program for boys who were too young to be Cubs. Beavers or similar programs were adopted by many other Scouting organizations, in particular Canada. The Canadian program was developed by three people: Harry McCartney who was the Manitoba Executive Scout Director and the author of the Beaver Book, \"Friends of the Forest\"; Alan Jones who was a Winnipeg Scout Executive and Gordon Hanna who was part of the United Way Youth Council and was asked by Harry to be the Project Coordinator. As concepts were developed by Alan and Gordon, Harry would write the next chapter of Friends of the Forest. \n\nSome Scouting organizations, including the Boy Scouts of America and certain Traditional Scouting organizations, have not adopted programs for ever younger age children. Baden-Powell-ist Traditional Scouting rejects Beavers or similar programs because they are not one of Robert Baden-Powell's programs. Some organizations have adopted Beavers or similar programs but distinguish and disassociate them in identity from Scouting.\n\nOriginally, the Beavers program was open only to boys but, in most organizations operating Beavers or similar programs, the programs have been opened to both girls and boys.\n\nNorthern Ireland was the first country to have Beavers. The title was officially adopted there in 1966. The Canadian program began in 1971 in Winnipeg and in 1972 it went countrywide. It was made an official section of Scouts Canada in 1974. This was closely followed by the Republic of Ireland in the same year. Beaver Scouts became an official section in the UK in 1986. Beavers and programs for similar ages spread to a few other Scouting organizations around the world. Beavers were not formally recognized by many Scouting organizations until well into the 1980s.\n\nThe Baden-Powell Scouts' Association in Australia has a programme called Koalas, although some Groups do not operate Koalas as they were not part of Baden-Powell's concept. The programme serves 5 to eight year olds, and is followed by Wolf Cubs. The Koalas program uses a catch phrase and themes around \"Koalas climb high\" with participants reciting the phrase and mimicking the motions of a climbing Koala.\n\nIn Scouts Australia, this age section is called Joeys. A joey is an infant kangaroo. The Joeys programme uses a catch phrase and themes around \"Hop, Hop, Hop\" such as Help Other People with participants reciting the phrase and mimicking the motions of a hopping joey kangaroo.\n\nIn Scouts Canada Beavers are aged five to seven. Members normally wear a brown vest as a uniform with a cream T-shirt and a blue Beaver coby hat. The programme is based on a specially written story called \"Friends of the Forest\" written by Harry McCartney. A one month grant from the United Way was provided to hire Gordon Hanna as the Project Coordinator to help develop and practically test the concepts. Three colonies were initially started in 3 parts of Winnipeg to pilot the ideas: Elmwood, St. James and St. Vital. The first colony in Elmwood had 13 boys join on Sept. 23rd, 1971. The program was an immediate success and grew exponentially. \n\nBeaver Promise:\nI promise to love God and help take care of the world.\n\nBeaver Law:\nA Beaver has fun, works hard and helps their family and friends.\n\nBeaver Motto:\nSharing, Sharing, Sharing\n\nA new Beaver is called a \"Kit\"; a Kit must learn the Beaver Promise, Law, and Motto and go through an investiture ceremony to become an \"Eager Beaver\". The investiture ceremony officially welcomes the Beaver into the Beaver programme and during this ceremony the Beaver receives a tail, neckerchief, and badges for his uniform. The Beaver Leaders take their names from the Beaver Story, such as Hawkeye. Keeo is the name of the Cub who comes to the Beaver meetings to share his experiences in Cubs and to be a buddy when the Beavers swim--up to Cubs.\n\nA five-year-old Beaver is a brown tail, a six-year-old is a blue tail and a seven-year-old is a white tail. The tail is attached to the back brim of the Beaver Hat.\n\nThe beavers \"swim up\" to Cubs towards the end of the year that they are white tails.\n\nIn the Association des Scouts du Canada Castors (Beavers in French) are aged from seven to nine. Members normally wear a yellow T-shirt and tan or brown pants. The programme is based on a specially written story called \"Les aventures de Cartouche et Namor\" (\"The Adventures of Cartouche and Namor\").\n\nCastor Promise:\nJe m'engage à faire des efforts pour jouer avec et comme les autres. (I promise to do my best to play with and like others)\n\nCastor Motto:\nEffort (Effort)\n\nThe new Beaver receives his neckerchief and uniform at a promise ceremony where the Beaver, generally, must demonstrate that he has joined the unit. From that moment, the new Beavers have entered the Beaver programme.\n\nBeavers collect individual badges following a four-step programme:\n\n\nThey can also collect two technique badges which are called buchettes (splint): Security and Environnement.\n\nWhen they climb to Cubs, they receive a badge called \"Castor découvreur\" (discovering beaver).\n\nIn Asociación de Scouts de México, A.C. there was a Beaver Section, but it has been closed down. However, there are many beaver groups or \"castores\" in Spanish working unofficially in parallel.\n\nIn Scouts New Zealand, this section is called Keas. A kea is a New Zealand parrot.\n\nThe Scout Association officially recognised Beaver Scouts in 1986, but there had been a fully fledged Beaver section in Northern Ireland since 1966, plus informal colonies in other parts of the UK country for many years prior to 1986. The programme is run for 5¾ to 8 year olds, and precedes Cubs.\n\nThe Beavers section currently makes up the largest proportion of participants within The Scout Association in the United Kingdom, with many colonies having waiting lists, some of which may have several times as many waiting as there are actual members.\n\nThe uniform is a turquoise sweatshirt or T-shirt, with the group colours for the neckerchief.\nThe motto, shared with the rest of the UK Scout Association sections, is \"Be Prepared\".\n\nThe Baden-Powell Scouts' Association recognised Beavers in 1982, although some Groups do not operate Beaver colonies as they were not part of Baden-Powell's concept. The programme serves five to eight year olds, and is followed by Wolf Cubs.\n\nThe uniform is a vest that can be many colours, with the group colours for the neckerchief. Some groups also issue Beavers with caps.\n\nVarious troops in Switzerland also have Beavers (in some Cantons also called \"Fünkli\", \"Füchse\" or \"Murmeli\"), but they are not officially recognised by the Swiss Guide and Scout Movement.\n\nThey usually only wear the troop's neckerchief but have no uniform.\n\nBoy Scouts of America does not operate a Beaver program. Tiger Cubs started in 1982 as a Cub pack associated program for seven year old boys. It continued as a separate program section until 2001 when it was moved into the Cub Scouting division.\n\nIn the Baden-Powell Service Association, the corresponding section for this age group is called Otters.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2492094", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2492094", "title": "Bible quiz", "text": "Bible quiz\n\nBible Quiz, also known as Bible Bowl, is a competition between teams (often representing individual churches) over knowledge of a pre-determined section of the Bible. Various Protestant denominations, plus a handful of independent groups, sponsor these competitions. All of them take the form of a quick-recall game, similar to those used in many American schools but instead using the Bible as the subject of study and questions. Organizations which use the name \"Bible Bowl\" lean toward the format established by television's \"College Bowl\" in the 1950s. All groups feature teams competing to be the first to \"buzz in\" using an electronic lockout device, much like those still used in TV game shows such as \"Jeopardy!\" today.\n\nMost organizations have seasons which roughly correspond with the U.S. school year (September–June (in the Assemblies of God Denomination, it goes on to July), holding local competitions on a monthly basis, with playoffs (or District Finals) beginning in March or April that lead to a regional championship tournament, then to a national championship tournament. Contestants are usually students in grades six through twelve, although some organizations do also offer a separate division for younger children.\n\nHistorically, most Bible Bowl/Quiz organizations have used either the New International Version or the King James Version as the translation for their programs. More recently some groups such as Bible Quiz Fellowship and World Bible Quiz Association have instead chosen the English Standard Version. Some groups also feature a \"quoting bee\" as an additional part of their competition. Similar to a spelling bee, a contestant is given a verse reference (or references), and must quote the verse verbatim within a time limit (8–30 seconds, depending on the level of competition) or be eliminated.\n\nBible trivia questions are typically made up from the team coordinators' own Bible knowledge, or derived from other sources, such as Bible trivia board games (i.e. Trivial Pursuit for the Bible) or free online Bible trivia sources. Bible trivia websites online are increasingly common, which may be useful for sharpening skills and Bible knowledge.\n\nOther organizations, such as Nazarene Bible Quiz, Assemblies of God Teen Bible Quiz, Bible Quiz Fellowship, World Bible Quiz Association, and Piedmont Quizzing Association, derive their questions solely from the Bible. Contestants come in teams of up to five people, and have two or three teams quizzing in a round. Quizzers buzz in as the question is being read, using either a hand-activated device or by standing (activating an electric switch in their seat). The first quizzer to buzz in must answer the question; in many competitions, if that person interrupts the moderator before the end of the question, the quizzer must complete the question first and then give the answer. In these organizations, quizzers will often memorize entire books or sets of books, depending on the material given for the year. Those who compete at higher levels often will have the entire material memorized, recallable by any given reference or keyword. Most are able to quote from start to finish in one sitting. Some organizations have competitions where they compete as to accuracy in quoting the material.\n\nAfter the Second World War, youth organizations across the United States formed Youth for Christ as an umbrella organization to coordinate their Christian evangelical action. One of Youth for Christ's popular activities in many areas was Bible quizzing in which teams organized according to local high schools competed against one another in local areas, known as rallies. Competition would be between three teams of four players each who would attempt to answer twenty questions, read aloud one at a time. After a player answered five questions correctly or three incorrectly he or she would have to be replaced by another player, and other substitutions were also permitted. In some regions of the United States, the local quiz team champions would travel to compete against champion teams from other areas, and national competitions also were held at the annual Winona Lake Bible Conference Youth for Christ conventions in Winona Lake, Indiana, where national Bible quiz team champions were determined. Popularity achieved its zenith in the late 1950s and early 1960s.\n\nOne of the unusual features of early Youth for Christ Bible quizzing was the challenge to participants to jump to their feet from a sitting position to win the right to answer each question. At first, judges would determine the first to jump by viewing above index cards to see whose head first \"broke the plane.\" But, as time passed, local Youth for Christ rallies built or purchased special seat cushions with electrical relay switches that lit signal lights on consoles after pressure was removed due to the quizzer jumping up from the seat. In this way, the right to answer went to the first to leave his/her seat rather than the first to appear to have jumped, thus removing any advantage for taller participants. This was one of the earliest mixed gender competitions for teens which partially depended on some athletic ability.\n\nAs the format of Youth for Christ activities changed in the late 1960s, Bible quiz teams began to represent individual churches, and groups of churches from the same denomination began to hold competitions limited to those denominations apart from the Youth for Christ supervision.\n\nAlliance Bible Quizzing is sponsored by the Christian and Missionary Alliance. Quizzing is in game format, similar to Nazarene and Free Methodist. One round (with 3 teams) is 20 questions, and 20 points are added for each correct question. Ten points are deducted for a wrong answer (starting with question number 17), the second personal error, or the third team error and each subsequent error. Quizzers sit on benches with pads attached and 'jump' when they have heard sufficient information to complete the question. The jump sends a signal to the box used to indicate which quizzer rose from the pad first. The quizzer then has 30 seconds to give the correct answer. Similar to Assemblies of God quizzing, a quizzer \"errors out\" when they answer three questions incorrectly, or \"quizzes out\" when they answer four questions correctly, winning an extra 10 bonus points if they quiz out with no errors. Should a quizzer quiz out, they are no longer permitted to jump but may remain on the bench for bonus questions. However, if a quizzer errors out, they must leave the bench. If a member of one team errors, the next question is a \"toss-up\" question, answerable only by the other two non-erring teams. If there is an error on a toss-up question, the non-erring team gets a bonus question. A bonus is the next numbered question, but is only answerable by that team. After Question 15, toss-up questions are numbered 16a, 17a, 18a, 19a, and 20a, and bonus questions are numbered 16b, 17b, 18b, 19b, and 20b.\n\nTypes of questions include interrogative (regular) questions, multiple answers, situations, chapter and verse references, quoting a Bible verse or finishing a verse.\n\nAn international tournament is held for the top 5-10 quizzers from each district of the C&MA in the U.S and Canada.\n\nAssemblies of God Bible Quiz is sponsored by the Assemblies of God. \"Teen Bible Quiz\" games feature two teams of three quizzers each, plus up to three substitutes. Games have 20 questions, with point values of 10, 20, or 30 points depending on the difficulty. Quizzers who buzz in first (using hand-operated buzzers) and answer correctly within 30 seconds are awarded the point value; an incorrect response results in a deduction of half the point value. A quizzer who interrupts the quizmaster (the question reader) must first complete the essence of the question and then give the answer; a quizzer who fails to do both correctly is not only penalized with a deduction of half the point value, but allows the opposing team a shot at the same question. Individual quizzers with five correct answers in a game \"quiz out\" and receive a 20-point bonus, but must sit out the remainder of the game; this rule was created with the intent to prevent one individual from dominating the match. This also encourages team play by giving more questions to quizzers who are not as knowledgeable of Scripture or as experienced at quizzing. Similarly, a quizzer with three incorrect answers is also disqualified (known variously as an err out, quiz-out backwards or strikeout), but without further point penalty; the purpose of this rule is to discourage quizzers from \"buzzing in\" and simply guessing, and also to speed up play.\n\nMonthly matches begin in October. District-level are playoffs in March or April, with top teams moving on to one of eight regional playoffs, and the top five teams from those advance to the National Finals, held in July. Teams study a specific portion of the New Testament each season (the 1 & 2 letters to the Corinthians for the 2018-2019 season). Questions at the National Finals level can be extremely difficult, such as requiring a seven-verse passage to be quoted perfectly within 30 seconds, or the recollection of a list of twenty or more names or places.\n\nThe 2018 National Finals tournament was held at Calvary Church in Naperville, Illinois, and was won by a team from Life 360 church of Springfield, Missouri. This is the second consecutive year a Missouri team brought home the championship. The 2019 National Finals will be held at North Central University in Minneapolis, Minnesota.\n\n\"Middle School Quiz\" (known until the 2009-2010 season as \"novice quizzing\") is for sixth- through eighth-grade students. It is played exactly the same as Teen Bible Quiz, but covers a smaller amount of Scripture. Playoffs are at the district and regional levels only, with no national finals. Not all Assemblies of God districts offer Middle School Quiz. Sixth through eighth graders may compete in Teen or Middle School quizzing, but not both in the same season. (A handful of districts offer an unofficial competition that covers the same material as Middle School Quiz, but is open to higher grades. It is colloquially known as \"B-League.\")\n\n\"Experience League\" is a new division (as of 2014) that is open to grades 6-12. It features a reduced amount of Scripture material to study, with four matches per year covering one or two chapters each, and no review of material from previous matches. Designed as an entry-level version of Teen Bible Quiz, games differ from the standard format in that the first 12 questions are offered to one team only, alternating teams between questions, with standard team-against-team quizzing beginning with the 13th question of each game. There is also no post-season playoff system.\n\n\"Junior Bible Quiz\" uses a similar format for children in grades one through six, with some differences: 1) a group of 576 questions and answers covering the entire Bible is used as the subject material, and does not change from year to year; 2) four quizzers and up to four substitutes comprise a team; 3) six correct answers are needed for a \"quiz out\" and a 10-point bonus (this was also the rule in \"Teen Bible Quiz\" until the start of the 2005-2006 season).\n\nThere is also a Bible Seal program that covers Junior Bible Quiz questions. The highest nationally recognized level is the Bible Excellence, which is achieved by answering 571 out of 576 questions correctly in one sitting. (Some states have additional higher levels, such as the Impossible Award. This award can be achieved by answering all 576 questions correctly from breakpoint [the point at which any given question can be distinguished from all the others], in one sitting. This test can often three to four hours to complete.)\n\nThough Bible Quiz is sponsored by the Assemblies of God, teams from churches outside that fellowship may compete. At the Teen Quiz level, such teams may advance through the regional level of playoff competition, and as of the 2017-18 season are also eligible to compete at the National level. In Junior Quiz, advancement through to National Finals is not restricted; JBQ teams from any church may compete. In 2006, a church from outside the Assemblies won the Junior National Championship for the first time in the competition's history; previously, a Southern Baptist and a Methodist church had each finished in second place.\n\nThe 2018 tournament was held in Orlando, Florida, and was won by \"The Overcomers\" of Houston, Texas. The 2019 National JBQ Festival will be held in Tucson, Arizona.\n\nBible Quiz Fellowship is a non-denominational, international organization currently headquartered in St. Louis, Missouri. BQF has member ministries in Missouri, Iowa, Minnesota, Ohio, Washington, Maryland, Colorado, Wisconsin, New Jersey, and New York. Bible Quiz Fellowship has held a national tournament every April since it split from the Youth Evangelism Association in May 2001. BQF uses slightly modified YEA rules. BQF used the NIV version from its start until the 2012-2013 season when it switched to the ESV.\n\nBQF-style Bible Quizzing is a fast-paced team sport, in which 3 teams of 5-7 people compete to answer questions based directly on scripture verses. Bible Quiz Fellowship uses a modified version of the WBQA's 8-year cycle through the New Testament. In 2010, the 8-year cycle was changed to incorporate Mark and Revelation, so that the cycle now includes the entire New Testament.\n\nEach quiz has two six-minute halves, during which the quizmaster asks as many questions as time allows (usually around 40-50). Approximately 15% of questions are quote questions, for which the reference is given, and the verse must be quoted correctly to get points. The rest of the questions are reference-type questions. Each correct answer is worth 20 points, and points are deducted from the team score, but not individual score, for errors. Five correct answers is a \"quiz-out,\" and three errors are an \"error-out\"; a ten-point bonus is awarded for a \"perfect quiz-out\", when a quizzer gets five right and none wrong in a quiz. A 20-point bonus is awarded for the 5th, 6th and 7th quizzers answering correctly\n\nQuizzing usually starts on the local level in August or September, and culminates in a national tournament each April. The next national championship will be held in April 2017 in Kansas City, MO. Nationals usually draws 40-45 teams each year, representing about 300 teens.\n\nStarting in 2014, the National Champions win the Moisman Traveling Trophy, which commemorates Mike Moisman, the founder of BQF, who passed in early 2013.\n\nThe Churches of Christ host various Bible Bowl competitions throughout the U.S., some nationally such as Lads to Leaders or Leadership Training for Christ, and some of them are more regional such as the Great Southeast Bible Bowl in Huntsville, AL and the Great Lakes Bible Bowl in Michigan. The largest of these regional competitions is the annual Bible Bowl held in Cookeville, TN with more than 2,000 participants representing more than 100 congregations in multiple states every year. An online, interactive study tool is available featuring questions used in the national Lads to Leaders conventions.\n\nThe Church of God General Conference (one of a number denominations all using the name \"Church of God\") sponsors a Bible quiz competition that is similar to the Nazarene/WBQA format.\n\nFree Methodist Bible Quiz is sponsored by the Free Methodist Church. Quizzers study specific books of the bible each year, and jump from seat pads in team and individual competition. While the majority of teams in the United States come from the Midwest and Pacific Northwest regions, there are teams from other regions, most notably from Kentucky and New York. Free Methodist quizzing also takes place in Kenya, the Philippines and Taiwan. Teams and individuals compete at monthly conference, regional and multi-regional tournaments throughout the quiz season, culminating in a National Bible Quiz finals each year, hosted by a Free Methodist College/University.\n\nQuiz teams and individuals can compete in four divisions, depending on the experience level of competitors—Young Teen Rookie, Young Teen Veteran, Senior Teen Rookie, or Senior Teen Veteran. Teams and individuals that place receive a trophy and, in some divisions and competitions, scholarships. The winner of the Senior Teen Veteran National Bible Quiz Finals Team competition in Free Methodist Quizzing receives the Alpha-Omega trophy, which consists of a base on which the names of all previous winners are engraved. The back has three small stained glass windows, and there is also a platform for a detachable trophy that looks like a Bible. The winning team keeps the bible trophy and transports the base to the Quiz Team Finals the next year.\n\nMissionary Church Bible Quiz is sponsored by the Missionary Church. It is similar in format to the Nazarene Bible Quizzing ministry. Teams are largely from Indiana, Michigan, Ohio and Eastern Canada.\n\nNational Bible Bowl, sponsored by the North American Christian Convention from 1964 to 2001, is now managed by National Bible Bowl, an independent non-profit organization since 2001. Most teams still come from churches affiliated with the Christian churches and churches of Christ, a branch of the Restoration Movement, but other churches are now allowed as well. The game format is nearly a direct copy of College Bowl.\n\nGames tend to move very quickly and are played with two teams of 3 to 6 players each with no more than 4 from each team participating at a time. The quizmaster reads \"toss-up\" questions worth 10 points each no matter the difficulty. Toss-ups start with a statement called a \"lead-in\" which directs players toward the answer, and then the question is read. Toss-ups can be of various types including \"keyword,\" in which a word used once or twice in the official study text is used in the lead-in and points to a specific answer verse, \"general,\" which asks a question pertaining to a specific concept or idea in the text, \"category\" which requires one to three answers from a specific category (people, places, numbers, etc.) and \"word game,\" in which players have the opportunity to give one to three word answers based upon some \"clue\" (rhyming words, words which start with the same letter, etc.) Each player has a hand held signal block on the table in front of him/her with a button and a light on it to recognize which player \"buzzed in.\" Players must begin answering within 3 seconds of buzzing in, but are not timed on the length of their answer, as in other Bible Quiz programs. This is one of the main factors in the speed of the game. Players do not need to finish the question being read; they need only give the correct answer. For \"keyword\" and \"general\" toss-ups, they are also allowed to quote the verses where the answer is found. If a question is answered incorrectly, the other team has the opportunity to listen to the rest of the question and then answer. Points are never taken away in National Bible Bowl for any reason, nor is a player ever removed from the game for answering too many questions correctly or incorrectly, but substitutions may be made at half-time. Once a toss-up is answered correctly, a bonus question is read to that player's team on which they may confer. Bonus questions consist of 4 to 8 segments and are worth 20, 25, 30, 35, or 40 points.\n\nUnlike many other quiz programs, National Bible Bowl games have a time limit. A regulation game consists of two 10-minute halves with 20 toss-up and 20 bonus questions; a shortened version of 14 minutes with 15 toss-ups and 15 bonuses is used for round robin competition. The time limit tends to create a faster environment and more closely reflects College Bowl in that it is more entertaining for non-participants to watch. Due to the fact that a regulation game contains 20 toss-ups and 20 bonuses (each of which has from 4 to 8 specific questions), a Bible Bowl game can have a total of 170 different questions asked in the 20 minutes allotted to the game, more than any other Bible Quiz game. Again, this difference requires the game to move rapidly, and also contributes to the audience-friendly nature of the contest, since there is almost constant interaction between the quizmaster and the players. Some of the question types also add to the audience friendliness of the game (\"Put these words together to get a brand of soap\", \"Clue-by-Clue until you know who\", etc.).\n\nThe official study text material covers both the Old and New Testament, but there is no set cycle used to determine the books of the Bible studied and new questions are created every year, even if the same material is covered again. Because the National Bible Bowl Office provides competition questions for 8 local tournaments (one per month beginning in October), several summer tournaments held at Bible colleges, and the National Tournament), they are responsible for coordinating the writing and editing of competition questions annually.\n\nThe competition schedule coincides with the school year and local round robins take place each month in state competitions. Some states hold more than one round robin due to an abundance of teams in the area. In the summer, many teams will meet at some of the several invitational tournaments taking place at Christian Colleges and Universities around the country. In addition to a round robin and main double elimination format tournament, each summer competition also administers a written test, ranging from 150 to 400 questions. Certain competitions, including the National Tournament, also hold \"Quoting Bees\" wherein a participant is given a verse location and must quote the entire verse from beginning to end verbatim. There are no official district or regional competitions that determine advancement. Assistant Quizmasters are only used in later rounds of double elimination tournaments; otherwise, there is only one Quizmaster per game. The season ends with a national championship tournament open to all teams;(less than a hundred attend)which concludes with a double-elimination bracket-style playoff; where the final games are staged, in front of audiences.\n\nA children's program, called \"Beginner Bible Bowl\", is for children in third through fifth grades. This program has different rules to engage younger players, one of the main differences being official pre-written questions that the children must quote the answers to. There are usually 850-1000 pre-published questions each season, roughly half of which come from a specific portion of the Bible (usually the same as the teen Bible Bowl study text), and the other half from general Bible knowledge. Unlike other Bible Quiz programs for this age group, most or all of the questions change each season.\n\nNazarene Bible Quizzing is sponsored by the Church of the Nazarene. It is similar to Assemblies of God quizzing, with a few exceptions. Matches are 20 questions in length, and questions are worth 20 points each. Penalty points of ten points each are deducted only when a quizzer \"errors out\" by answering three questions incorrectly, when a quizzer commits two fouls in a single round, each team error starting with the fifth error, or any error after question number 15; however, only a total of ten points may be deducted on a single question. There are also possible bonuses of ten points which occur when a single quizzer \"quizzes out without error\"—he gets four questions correct without getting a single one wrong—or when a third, fourth, or fifth quizzer on one team gets a correct answer. The latter is meant to encourage participation from all members of the team rather than just one or two quizzers. Another important difference is that teams consist of four quizzers with one substitute, rather than three and three. The most obvious difference is the method of buzzing-in — a seated quizzer jumps up, which activates a pad on an electronic lock-out device. When a quizzer jumps and gives an incorrect answer or incorrectly or incompletely finishes the question, he receives an error. The opposite team then receives a chance to get the \"bonus\"; the quizzer in the seat directly opposite of the quizzer who received an error will be given the complete question and, if he answers correctly, will receive the ten-point bonus for his team. Each team also has a designated captain, as well as a co-captain who assumes the captain's responsibility in the case of an error-out or quiz-out, who has the ability to challenge a ruling (asking for an opposite ruling) or appeal the question's validity (asking for it to be thrown out). A penalty of ten points will be deducted if a captain challenges twice in one quiz and is overruled both times. There is a material cycle consisting of eight books or groups of books: Luke, 1-2 Corinthians, John, Hebrews & 1-2 Peter, Matthew, Romans & James, Acts, Galatians-Ephesians-Philippians-Colossians & Philemon.\n\nRegional competition consists of all-star teams from each district on the region and is held in the spring. Some regions also include all-star local church teams and an open division which might even include a non-Nazarene team (that team must compete during the year on the district with approval). During the regional competitions, the first-place church teams and district \"all-star\" teams compete to form a Regional \"all-star\" team which will represent their region at nationals. There are two different national competitions in Nazarene Bible quizzing, one which includes local church, district and regional competitions, and one which only involves the regional teams. These national competitions alternate from one year to the next and are held at one of the regional colleges during even numbered years and during global and USA/Canada events during the odd numbered years. Nazarene Bible Quizzing has a long history in the Church of the Nazarene (50 years), and has been popular with many churches for generations. Quizzers are in their junior and senior high (teenage) years.\n\nPathfinder Bible Achievement has the members of the Bible Bowl team study one book or part of the Bible out of the New King James version. Pathfinders and the Bible Quiz event are run and organized by the Seventh-day Adventist Church. There are 90 questions in the event. The book or part of the Bible changes every year. There are four different stages in Bible Achievement. First, there is the District level; then the Conference level. Finally there is the Division level, in Berrien Springs, Michigan. If a team received a first place in a level, they are then allowed to go on to the next level, and so on and so forth. Finding a team's placement is determined by taking the team's score and comparing it with the top score. If the team's score is within 10% of the top score, the team received a first place. If it is within 20%, the team received a second place. Anything under 20% of the top score is a third place. Bible Achievement is for Pathfinders in 5th through 10th grades.\n\nBible quizzing sponsored by the United Pentecostal Church International spans throughout North America and allows other countries to participate. It is similar in game format to Assemblies of God Bible quizzing. The quiz year runs from around January to June for state competitions and through the end of July and beginning of August for national competitions. Many teams start studying as early as November. Young people are given a list of verses from around 170 verses (for 4-8 year olds), around 280 verses (for 9- to 12-year-olds) and 520 verses (for 13- to 18-year-olds) to memorize verbatim. As the quiz year progresses, each tournament accumulates more material being quizzed over. Monthly state tournaments are held during the quiz year. At these tournaments, teams typically compete against each other in double elimination tournaments. During a quiz, two teams face against each other with 3 quizzers on each team sitting at two long tables facing the quizmaster and holding a hand-held buzzer. A team can consist of as few as 2 and as many as 5 quizzers along with 2 coaches. The quizmaster reads a question and the first quizzer to buzz in receives the ability to answer that question. Quizzers can interrupt the quizmaster, but must finish what the question would have been (if interrupted) then give the answer within 30 seconds. The quiz consists of 20 questions: 8 ten point questions, 9 twenty point questions and 3 thirty point question for the intermediate teams ageing from grade 7-grade 9 . While the juniors have 15 questions. The national tournament each year is called the North American Bible Quizzing Tournament (NABQT) and alternates location from year to year.\n\nWesleyan Bible Bowl, sponsored by the Wesleyan Church, is also similar to College Bowl, but games begin with a written quiz.\n\nThe World Bible Quiz Association is an independent ministry that sponsors quizzing across denominational lines. Its game format is most similar to Nazarene, Free Methodist and Alliance quizzing, and most competing teams come from those three groups. The WBQA has an eight-year cycle of the material studied for each season, which is followed by the Missionary Church quiz program and Wesleyan Bible Bowl, and previously Assemblies of God \"Teen Bible Quiz.\" The cycle rotates as follows: Luke (2008–09), followed by 1 & 2 Corinthians, John, Hebrews & 1-2 Peter, Matthew, Romans & James, Acts, and Galatians/Ephesians/Philippians/Colossians/Philemon.\n\nWBQA quizzing style is similar to Nazarene. It consists of three teams in a quiz, four players per team (though a team can have up to five, subbing quizzer in and out). A quiz is 20 questions long, and each question is worth 20 points, with a few exceptions. If a team gets a question wrong, that team will sit out the next question, which will be for the other two teams only. If one of those two teams gets the question wrong, the following question is a \"free question\" to the remaining team, worth 10 points. A quizzer is removed from the quiz if he or she answers four questions correctly or three questions incorrectly. If a quizzer answers four questions correctly without making an error, an extra 10 points are added onto his or her final correct answer and he or she is awarded with a \"quiz-out without error.\" If three separate members of the same team answer a question correctly, that team is awarded a 10-point bonus. If a fourth member of the team answers correctly, another bonus is awarded.\n\nIn WBQA quizzing, questions must \"only\" contain words from the verse from which the question is taken, plus an interrogative (who/what/where/when/why/how) and, if necessary, a form of the verb \"to be\" (i.e. was/is/were/am, though in practice very few questions require this addition)--no other helping verbs may be used. All questions must be grammatically correct (with the exception of questions beginning with \"what if\"). This is the same style of question used in other groups such as Bible Quiz Fellowship.\n\nThe WBQA holds several tournaments throughout the year. The primary tournament held is the WBQA Finals, which are held in various different locations each year (Cedarville University in Ohio for 2008-09), which is open to quiz teams from anywhere. Other major tournaments include one held in Chicago at the end of March, and one held in Brighton, Michigan in the middle of November. WBQA quizzing appears to be concentrated in a few geographic areas, primarily Pittsburgh, Michigan and the Quad Cities.\n\nA major spin-off of WBQA quizzing is Detroit Bible Quizzing, a quiz league in the Detroit area consisting of approximately 20-40 teams which competes throughout the season (October–March), and regularly sends multiple teams to WBQA tournaments.\n\nThe National Bible Bee is an independent organization to promote biblical literacy. Contestants study questions about the Bible as well as memorize specific passages from the Bible from any of five approved English versions.\n\nThe Piedmont Quizzing Association is based in Greenville, South Carolina and includes about 20 church teams of two to seven quizzers each from the Southeast. Teens in grades 6 through 12 participate. The main quiz season is from August to January, and a tournament is held in February. During the main season, a quiz meet is held once a month. At each quiz meet, each team participates in two twenty-question, two-team quizzes. All questions read by the quizmaster come from the King James Bible, and each question is worth 20 points. A player jumps of the pad on his chair to answer a question, which causes his light to come on in order to alert the quiz master that he jumped first. The quizzer who jumps first gets to answer the question. When the quizzer answers the question correctly, 20 points are awarded his team. When he answers incorrectly, the question is given as a rebound to the other team. After the team's 5th error or Question 15 (whichever comes first), 10 points are also taken off for incorrect answers. A quizzer may \"quiz out forwards\" if he answers five questions in the quiz correctly, or \"quiz out backwards\" if he answers four questions incorrectly. In either case, the quizzer leaves his chair, and a substitute may take his place. Quizzers earn 10 points for their team if they \"quiz out (forwards) without error.\" The team that earns the most points in each quiz wins the quiz.\n\nBible Quiz is the name of a feature documentary by filmmaker Nicole Teeny. The film is a coming-of-age story of an Assemblies of God teen Bible Quizzer on her quest to win the 2008 National Bible Quiz Championship which took place in Green Bay, Wisconsin that year. The film premiered at the 2013 Slamdance Film Festival where it won the Grand Jury Award for Best Documentary and was picked up for distribution.\n\nBible Bowl was a Christian game show in the United States. It had a host Coach Jack Grey, a robot, and two teams (the Bible Boys and the Gospel Girls). It aired on Sunday mornings and was taped at KJRH in Tulsa, Oklahoma. It occasionally appeared on various religious cable television channels in the 1970s & 1980s.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3359954", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3359954", "title": "Business and Enterprise College", "text": "Business and Enterprise College\n\nBusiness and Enterprise Colleges (BECs) were introduced in 2002 as part of the Specialist Schools Programme in England. The system enables secondary schools to specialise in certain fields. Schools that successfully apply to the Specialist Schools Trust and become Business and Enterprise Colleges receive extra funding for applied business teaching from this joint private sector and government scheme. Business and Enterprise Colleges also act as a local point of reference for other schools and businesses in the area, with an emphasis on promoting enterprise and commercial awareness within the community.\n\nIn his budget speech of March 2006, the Chancellor of the Exchequer, Gordon Brown announced that the government would be funding a network of best practice to support the delivery of Enterprise Education within the UK. This network (called the Schools' Enterprise Education Network (SEEN) was based on the expertise within BECs—56 hubs (one per county) were identified in May 2006. At a launch conference the hub co-ordinators were advised of the local BECs that would act as 'spokes' to support the dissemination to all state-maintained secondary schools.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "49301125", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49301125", "title": "Concepts of Physics", "text": "Concepts of Physics\n\nConcepts of Physics is a calculus-based physics textbook by H. C. Verma. The book was first published in 1992. It is published as a two-volume set, with each volume roughly covering the physics syllabus of class XI and class XII respectively. The book is extensively popular amongst students preparing for competitive exams, especially the Joint Entrance Examination.\nThe first volume covers mechanics, waves and optics, while the second volume covers thermodynamics, electromagnetism, modern physics andTheory of relativity.\n"}
{"id": "40902589", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40902589", "title": "Department of Education (Australia)", "text": "Department of Education (Australia)\n\nThe Australian Department of Education was a department of the Government of Australia charged with the responsibility for national policies and programs to help Australians access quality and affordable childcare; early childhood education, school education, post-school, higher education, international education and academic research. The head of the department was the Secretary of the Department of Education, Lisa Paul , who reported to the Minister for Education, the Hon. Christopher Pyne , the Assistant Minister for Education, the Hon. Sussan Ley , and the Parliamentary Secretary to the Minister for Education, Senator the Hon. Scott Ryan.\n\nThe department was formed by way of an Administrative Arrangements Order issued on 18 September 2013 and replaced the functions previously performed by the Department of Education, Employment and Workplace Relations (DEEWR). DEEWR was formed in 2007 and absorbed the former Department of Education, Science and Training and the former Department of Employment and Workplace Relations. \n\nThe department was dissolved by way of an Administrative Arrangements Order issued on 23 December 2014 and superseded by the Department of Education and Training.\n\nThe functions of the department were broadly classified into the following matters:\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "23701704", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23701704", "title": "Early Childhood Education Journal", "text": "Early Childhood Education Journal\n\nThe Early Childhood Education Journal analyzes issues, trends, policies, and practices for early childhood education from birth through age eight.\n\nAcademic Search, Cabell's, Contents Pages in Education, CSA/Proquest, Current Abstracts, Educational Management Abstracts, Educational Research Abstracts Online (ERA), Educational Technology Abstracts, ERIC System Database, ERIH, Gale, Google Scholar, HW Wilson, MathEDUC, Mathematics Education, Multicultural Education Abstracts, OCLC, OmniFile, PsycINFO, SCOPUS, Sociology of Education Abstracts, Special Education Needs Abstracts, Studies on Women & Gender Abstracts, Summon by Serial Solutions, Technical Education & Training Abstracts, TOC Premier\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4774451", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4774451", "title": "Education and Science Workers' Union (Germany)", "text": "Education and Science Workers' Union (Germany)\n\nThe Education and Science Workers’ Union (, GEW) is a trade union in Germany. It has a membership of 260,000 and is one of eight industrial affiliates of the German Confederation of Trade Unions.\nMost members are teachers, but it also represents day care workers, social workers, private educators, researchers and professors.\n\nGEW is founding member of the \"Berlin Energy Table\" which successfully pushed for a Referendum on the recommunalization of energy supply in Berlin in 2013.\n\nA charitable trust founded by the trades union GEW with the mission to use education to fight child labour (\"Bildung statt Kinderarbeit\").\n\n"}
{"id": "14000930", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14000930", "title": "European Conference on Digital Libraries", "text": "European Conference on Digital Libraries\n\nThe International Conference on Theory and Practice of Digital Libraries (TPDL) started in 1997 as the European Conference on Research and Advanced Technology on Digital Libraries (ECDL). The first DELOS Working Group, partially funded by the European Union, laid the foundations for the establishment of a European Research Community on Digital Libraries. The conference has become a notable European forum focusing on digital libraries and associated technical, practical, and social issues.\n\n\nIn 2011 the conference was renamed to International Conference on Theory and Practice of Digital Libraries (TPDL).\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "43039048", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43039048", "title": "Five Little Monkeys", "text": "Five Little Monkeys\n\n\"Five Little Monkeys\" is an English language folk song and fingerplay. It is usually accompanied by a sequence of gestures that mimic the words of the song. Each successive verse sequentially counts down from the starting number. \n\nA commonly used version uses these words and gestures::\n\nAn additional part is:\nAn alternate version sometimes seen is:\n\nthere is no known origin of the song, due to it being a modern nursery rhyme.\nBut the song has similar lyrics and tune that came from the first verse from the folksong \"Short'nin Bread\"\n\n"}
{"id": "8806018", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8806018", "title": "Frank Pittman", "text": "Frank Pittman\n\nFrank Smith Pittman, III, M.D. (1935 – November 24, 2012) was an American psychiatrist and author. He wrote a regular column, \"Ask Dr. Frank\", which used to appear in \"Psychology Today\".\n\nDuring his lifetime, he was a \"widely quoted author\" of \"Man Enough: Fathers, Sons and the Search for Masculinity\" and \"\". He was also author of books \"Grow Up!: How Taking Responsibility Can Make You a Happy Adult\", and \"Turning Points: Treating Families in Transition and Crisis\".\n\nDr. Pittman practiced out of Atlanta, Georgia, where he was active as a psychiatrist and family therapist from 1962 until his death in 2012. Both of Dr. Pittman's daughters are psychologists.\n\nIn 2003, Dr. Pittman was recognized with the Smart Marriages Impact Award at the annual conference of the Coalition for Marriage, Family and Couples Education.\n\nDr. Pittman died at his Atlanta home on November 24, 2012 of cancer. He is survived by his wife of 52 years, Betsy Pittman, two daughters, Dr. Tina Wagers of Boulder, CO., and Dr. Virginia Pistilli of Portola, CA.; a son, Frank S. Pittman IV of Atlanta, GA; a sister, Joanna Fox of Cashiers, NC, and seven grandchildren.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "56742642", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56742642", "title": "Gerlach and Ely Instructional Design Model", "text": "Gerlach and Ely Instructional Design Model\n\nThe Gerlach and Ely model emphasizes the cycle nature of instructional design.\n\nThe authors wanted to design a model which explained each component of the teaching and learning process while at the same time examining the relationship between the media and instruction. The model consists of ten elements and was constructed for teachers who both design and deliver instruction. The model is clearly defined and easily understood.\n\nThe Gerlach and Ely instructional design model was developed by Vernon S. Gerlach and Donald P. Ely (1930 – 2014). Gerlach is an American Educator and writer who authored and co-authored books in the field of Education. Dr. Ely was an American professor and director of ERIC Clearinghouse on information and technology at Syracuse University. Dr. Ely also published and co-authored several journal articles and books and founded the ERIC Clearinghouse on information and technology. As an Educator, he was an advocate for instructional technology. Gerlach and Ely co-authored \"Teaching and the media, A systematic Approach\" (1971) where they introduced the Gerlach and Ely Instructional design model.\n\nThe model can be described as a mix of linear and concurrent activities that contains several steps which are seen as simultaneous.\n\nIn education, the model is suitable for primary, secondary and tertiary levels and can be implemented with limited resources available to teachers. The model is most suitable for instructional planning and designing where objectives and content are predetermined. Both objectives and content are also synchronize and are the starting point of instruction. The model includes strategies for selecting and including multimedia during instruction. It is one of the few models that recognizes content orientation of many teachers. In the field of education, the model “has stood the test of time and has continued to serve the classroom teacher well”.\n\nStep One \nStep Two \nStep Three \nStep Four \nStep Five \n\nThe first task of the Gerlach and Ely instructional design model is the specification of content and objectives. This is done simultaneously since both content and objectives interact with each other. It is essential that the teacher indicates the reason for teaching the specific content and the medium in which the content will be used to achieve the objectives. The teacher is responsible for selecting the area of content to be taught and determining when it should be taught\n\nThe content is selected from the curriculum. The teacher also takes into consideration the state/local guidelines, personal experiences, goal or preferences of supervisor. The objectives must be measurable and written as specific skills that learners should display under specific conditions and time.\n\nThe second step is the assessment of entering behavior. At this stage, the teacher needs to determine the present skills and prerequisite knowledge of learners. Gerlach and Ely (1980) explained that the teacher must ask the question, “To what extent has the student learned the terms, concepts and skills which are part of the course?” The teacher can determine the starting knowledge of each learner by using a variety of methods such as giving a pretes). Gerlach and Ely were advocates of pretesting; they believed that teachers should breakdown content into units and give learners a pretest at the beginning of each unit.\n\nIn this model there are five tasks which occurs simultaneously: \n\nThe fourth step in this model is the evaluation of performance. Evaluation of performance is focused on the measurement of students’ performance and the attitude of students towards the content. In other words, the teacher must determine the effectiveness and efficiency of the instruction.\n\nThe final step in the model is the analysis of feed back. A formative revision is done to complete the process. At this point the teacher will inform the students about their performance.\n\nInstructional Design\n\nADDIE Model\n\nInstructional Technology\n\nCommunication Theory\n\nLearning Theory\n\nAgamba, J. and Keengwe, J. ( 2015). Models for improving and optimizing online and blended learning in higher education. A volume in the advances in higher education and professional development (AHEPD) Book series (page 196). Hershey PA, USA. IGE Global. \n\nGustafson, K. L., & Branch, R. (2002). Survey of Instructional Development Models (4th ed.). Syracuse, NY: ERIC Clearinghouse on Information & Technology, Syracuse University.\n\nRetrieved from: <nowiki>https://files.eric.ed.gov/fulltext/ED477517.pdf</nowiki>\n\nGrabowski, S. (2003). A Critique of Teaching and the Media: A systematic Approach: The Gerlach and Ely Model. Retrieved from: <nowiki>https://pdfs.semanticscholar.org/d9e1/a80bd80c602ce380db1e3d4a2fe41026fa52.pdf</nowiki>\n\nLedford, B and Sleeman, P. (2000) Instructional Design: A Primer. Information Age Publishing (IAP). Greenwich, Connecticut. 06831..\n\nMorrison, G, et al (2011). Designing Effective Instruction (6th Ed.) John Wiley and Sons Ltd. Hoboken, NJ. 07030- 5774. \n"}
{"id": "15546253", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15546253", "title": "Giuseppe Aprile", "text": "Giuseppe Aprile\n\nGiuseppe Aprile (28 October 1731 – 11 January 1813) was an Italian castrato singer and music teacher. He was also known as 'Sciroletto' or 'Scirolino'.\n\nAprile was born in Martina Franca. After studying with Gregorio Sciroli, composer and singing instructor, in Naples, he began his singing career in 1752 at the Teatro San Carlo in Naples. He then began a great career, performing in prominent theatres throughout Italy, Germany, and even Madrid. His voice could reach E5. He withdrew from the stage in 1785 and became a singing instructor in Naples. Domenico Cimarosa, Michael Kelly and Emma, Lady Hamilton were among his pupils. He wrote a popular book on singing instruction, \"The Italian Method of Singing, with 36 Solfeggi\" (1791).\n\n\nSource: Claudio Sartori. \"I libretti italiani a stampa dalle origini al 1800\". Cuneo, 1992-1994.\n"}
{"id": "13400817", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13400817", "title": "Hinds County Agricultural High School", "text": "Hinds County Agricultural High School\n\nHinds County Agricultural High School or Hinds Agricultural High School (HAHS) was a public secondary school in Utica, Mississippi (USA). It was located on the Utica campus of Hinds Community College until its 2014 closure. Hinds County AHS was one of three independently functioning agricultural high schools in the state of Mississippi.\n\nThe community college district operated the high school.\n\nIn 2012 the Mississippi Board of Education published a report recommending the closure of Hinds AHS. Augenblick, Palaich and Associates, the report's author, stated that enrollment was declining at Hinds, that it had among the lowest levels of academic performance, and that it no longer had a focus on agriculture.\n\nHinds AHS closed on July 1, 2014. According to state law, its real property was to be given to Hinds Community College and its personal property was to be given to the Hinds County School District. On July 1, 2015 its property was transferred to the Hinds County School District.\n\nIn 2014 the boys' track team won the third Class 1A championship of the MHSAA; this occurred just prior to the disestablishment of the school.\n\nThere were a total of 222 students enrolled at Hinds County Agricultural High School during the 2006/07 school year. The gender makeup of the school was 52% female and 48% male. The racial makeup of the school was 99.55% African American and 0.45% White. 78.2% of the school's students were eligible to receive free lunch.\n"}
{"id": "48324219", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48324219", "title": "ICanHazPDF", "text": "ICanHazPDF\n\n\nUsers request articles by tweeting an article's title, DOI or other linked information like a publisher's link, their email address, and the hashtag \"#ICanHazPDF\". Someone who has access to the article will then email it to them. The user then deletes the original tweet. Alternately, users who do not wish to post their email address in the clear can use direct messaging to exchange contact information with a volunteer who has offered to share the article of interest.\n\nThe majority of requests are for articles published in the last five years, and most users are from English-speaking countries. Requests for biology papers are more common than papers in other fields, despite subscription prices for chemistry, physics, and astronomy being, on average, higher than for biology. Possible reasons for people to use the hashtag include the reluctance of readers to pay for article access and the speed of the process compared to most university interlibrary loans.\n\nThe practice of requesting articles has sometimes been deemed \"piracy\". However, broad generalizations about the legality or illegality of using ICanHazPDF are dubious, given that many scientific publishers allow distribution of journal articles in some form, and the policies vary from publisher to publisher.\n\n"}
{"id": "6875699", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6875699", "title": "Information Processes and Technology", "text": "Information Processes and Technology\n\nInformation Processes and Technology (IPT) is the study of information systems and the processes and technology involved in them. IPT is also a subject offered to senior high school students in Australia in university entrance exams such as the HSC in New South Wales. It focuses on giving the student an understanding of information technology, information processes and the skills to create information systems and some basic programming skills. Some of the social and ethical issues of computer systems may also be included in the course of the subject. \n\nIn New South Wales, IPT is separated into the Preliminary (Year 11) and HSC (Year 12) courses. A prerequisite for the HSC Course is successful completion of the Preliminary Course. In June 2009 the course for 2010 and beyond was detailed in the NSW Board of Studies' HSC Information Processes and Technology Syllabus. IPT is one of the HSC courses which may be accelerated – students in some schools have the option of completing it in Year 10.\n\nTopics studied in the Preliminary Course are:\n\nIn the HSC IPT core topics studied are:\n\nThe HSC (Year 12) component of IPT also involves a number of option topics, usually of which two are chosen (usually by the school or teacher). These include:\n\nOther computing based courses offered in the HSC include Software Design & Development and Computing Applications.\n\nIn Queensland, the Information Processing and Technology course is defined in the Queensland Studies Authority Senior Certificate Information Processing and Technology document. The Senior IPT subject has four core topics, which are:\n\nThe SEI and HCI topics, although each allocated 10% of course time, are not treated as separate topics but are instead integrated into the other two topics, IIS and SSE. The remaining 20% of the assessment comes from extension coursework, which comes from the core subjects Information and Intelligent Systems and or Software and System Engineering and is supposed to broaden the scope of learning or the depth of learning in the subject.\n\n"}
{"id": "298221", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=298221", "title": "Internship", "text": "Internship\n\nAn internship is a period of work experience offered by an organization for a limited period of time. Once confined to medical graduates, the term is now used for a wide range of placements within businesses, non-profit organizations and government agencies. They are typically undertaken by students and graduates looking to gain relevant skills and experience in a particular field. Employers benefit from these placements because they often recruit employees from their best interns, who have known capabilities, thus saving time and money in the long run. Internships are usually arranged by third-party organizations which recruit interns on behalf of industry groups. Rules vary from country to country about when interns should be regarded as employees. The system can be open to exploitation by unscrupulous employers.\n\nInternships for professional careers are similar in some ways, but not as rigorous as apprenticeships for professions, trade, and vocational jobs. The lack of standardization and oversight leaves the term \"internship\" open to broad interpretation. Interns may be high school students, college and university students, or post-graduate adults. These positions may be paid or unpaid and are temporary. \n\nTypically, an internship consists of an exchange of services for experience between the intern and the organization. Internships are used to determine if the intern still has an interest in that field after the real-life experience. In addition, an internship can be used to create a professional network that can assist with letters of recommendation or lead to future employment opportunities. The benefit of bringing an intern into full-time employment is that they are already familiar with the company, their position, and they typically need little to no training. Internships provide current college students the ability to participate in a field of their choice to receive hands on learning about a particular future career, preparing them for full-time work following graduation.\n\nInternships exist in a wide variety of industries and settings. An internship can be paid, unpaid, or partially paid (in the form of a stipend). Internships may be part-time or full-time and are usually flexible with students' schedules. A typical internship lasts between one and four months, but can be shorter or longer, depending on the organization involved. The act of job shadowing may also constitute interning.\nAnother type of internship growing in popularity is the virtual internship, in which the intern works remotely, and is not physically present at the job location. It provides the capacity to gain job experience without the conventional requirement of being physically present in an office. The internship is conducted via virtual means, such as phone, email, and web communication. Virtual interns generally have the opportunity to work at their own pace.\n\nCompanies in search of interns often find and place students in mostly unpaid internships, for a fee. These companies charge students to assist with research, promising to refund the fee if no internship is found. The programs vary and aim to provide internship placements at reputable companies. Some companies may also provide controlled housing in a new city, mentorship, support, networking, weekend activities or academic credit. \n\nSome companies specifically fund scholarships and grants for low-income applicants. Critics of internships criticize the practice of requiring certain college credits to be obtained only through unpaid internships. Depending on the cost of the school, this is often seen as an unethical practice, as it requires students to exchange paid-for and often limited tuition credits to work an uncompensated job. Paying for academic credits is a way to ensure students complete the duration of the internship, since they can be held accountable by their academic institution. For example, a student may be awarded academic credit only after their university receives a positive review from the intern's supervisor at the sponsoring organization.\n\n"}
{"id": "27896209", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27896209", "title": "La Bressola", "text": "La Bressola\n\nLa Bressola () is a cultural association founded in Perpignan, France in 1976 to promote a network of community-run schools engaged in Catalan language immersion programs in France, particularly in the comarques of so-called North Catalonia. The first center was opened in Sant Galdric (Perpignan) in September 1976. Subsequently, other centers have been opened in El Vernet, Pontellà, Prades, El Soler and Sant Esteve del Monestir.\n\nSince 1983, the schools of La Bressola have hosted students from two to eleven years. In 2005, they maintained eight educational centers for nursery and primary school children, one of them (El Soler) being, since 2003, the first to impart secondary education in Catalan in France. With seven primary schools and one high school, some 600 students are currently being taught.\n\nTogether with the Calandretas, the Diwan schools, the Seaska (the Ikastolas of the French Basque country) and the \"association ABCM-Zweisprachigkeit\" (French-Alsatian bilingual schools), form a confederation of bilingual schools in France.\n\n\nThe pedagogy that is practiced is the so-called \"active pedagogy\" and it maintains a comparable level to its French-language counterparts. The administration's relations with the association, which since 1982 has tried to obtain government subsidies, have been difficult because of pressures for the introduction of bilingualism in equal parts. In 1995, the introduction of bilingual education at the end of primary school was agreed to. In 1987, the Generalitat of Catalonia awarded the Honor Award to Lluís Carulla.\n\nIn 1981, a split led to the creation of the association Arrels, directed by Laura Manaut and Pere Manzanares. The general director is Joan Pere Le Bihan.\n\nIn March 2007, the players of FC Barcelona, Lilian Thuram and Oleguer Presas participated in the reading of a manifesto in defense of the Catalan language and of these schools at a ceremony in Perpignan. The manifesto has been further supported by club president Joan Laporta, the coach of the French national football team Raymond Domenech, and the singers Manu Chao, Cali, the group Zebda, and I Muvrini.\n\n"}
{"id": "27397847", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27397847", "title": "Loden Foundation", "text": "Loden Foundation\n\nLoden Foundation is a civil society organisation established to support education and promote entrepreneurship amongst the young Bhutanese men and women in Bhutan. The foundation is dedicated to fostering a happy and enlightened society through educational intervention at preschool, school and post-school levels. Its main programmes include the Loden Entrepreneurship Programme (LEP), Loden Sponsorship Scheme, Loden Early Learning Centres and Loden Knowledge Base. The foundation also organises educational events to raise awareness on education and social entrepreneurship.\n\nThe Loden Foundation was founded in 2000 by the Bhutanese scholar Lopen Karma Phuntsho. Karma came to study as a graduate student at Balliol College in 1997, when he met Robert Miles, the head porter of the college. Mr. Miles offered to sponsor the school education of a young child in need. He himself did not finish school education in his youth due to financial circumstances. Karma found a bright girl from a poor family for Mr. Miles to support. Following this example, many friends of Karma showed interest to support education of poor children. Meanwhile, Karma's former school headmistress and acclaimed Bhutanese writer Kunzang Choden who was living in central Bhutan, joined him to identify children in need and distribute funds. In 2000, Karma formalised the process by founding the Loden Foundation with the help of some friends but the organisation was constituted in Bhutan in 2003.\n\nToday, the main office is based in Thimphu and run by a team of 10 employees headed by Mr. Dorji Tashi, with an advisory support from the governing board of trustees composed of seven prominent citizens. The Loden Foundation is one of the first registered civil society organisations under the Civil Society Organisation Act, 2007 Bhutan registered on 12 March 2010. The foundation is a partner of some of the worlds leading non-governmental organisations such as Prince's Youth Business International, Global Entrepreneurship Week, Entrepreneurs' Organisation, Swiss Swiss Development Corporations and many more.\n\nTibetan/Bhutanese word Loden (བློ་ལྡན་ wylie: blo ldan) literatlly means \"possessing intelligence\". It is an epithet of the learned and wise. It is one of the names of the Buddha of Wisdom, of Padmasambhava, who brought Buddhism to the Himalayan region and a term for Bodhisattva, an altruistic being who seeks enlightenment for the whole world.\n\nThe Loden logo symbolized giving knowledge and wisdom. It is a Himalayan book in the rectangular poti format. The book on open hand symbolizes the gift of knowledge, which, the Buddha said, is the best gift.\n\nThe Loden motto is ཆོས་བདག་མེད་ཀུན་ལ་ཐོབ་ཐང་ཡོད། (chos bdag med kun la thob thang yod), a Buddhist proverb that knowledge/truth is without an owner and everyone is entitled to it.\n\nThe Loden Foundation runs three main programmes.\n\nThe Loden Foundation is one of the pioneers in promoting entrepreneurship in Bhutan. Aimed at benefitting young graduates from schools and colleges, the foundation runs business training programmes, gives interest-free capital funds up to $30,000 to start businesses and provides support through its mentorship programme, monitoring scheme and resource centre. The programme was launched in 2008 in order to help promote entrepreneurship in Bhutan through the inspiration and support from Loden's longstanding friends Gerard Tardy and Anne Tardy. As thousands of young people leave schools and colleges, unemployment started to grow. Civil service which was the main employer in the past is now saturated and private sector is still only beginning. The programme aims to help self-starters in business. It also aims to help develop a responsible and sustainable entrepreneurial culture in Bhutan, inspired by the visionary and altruistic Bodhisattva ideals. The foundation has trained over 1500 entrepreneurs from 2008-2014 and provided interest-free capital seed money to 77 entrepreneurial ventures which are spread across 18 districts in Bhutan.\n\nAs part of the LEP, Loden also launched a special programme called 'Student Empowerment through Entrepreneurship Development' (SEED) in 14 university colleges and Technical Training Institutions (TTIs). This extended programme aims to stimulate the young minds of students at a time in their lives when they are full of imagination and open to new possibilities. It is expected to contribute towards extra curricular development of the students and inculcate entrepreneurial skills through exploring business opportunities, innovative thinking, confidence building and improvement of self-esteem and social awareness.\n\nThe Loden Foundation started with this programme but many NGOs and semi-governmental organisations in the last five years have taken over the sponsorship programme. These organisations are doing a great deal more than the Loden Foundation. However, the foundation is still continuing to serve as a channel between benefactors and beneficiaries where asked. It administer funds to support the education of many young children who are going to school. As of today, a total of 150 students have benefited from the programme.\n\nAs part of the programme, the Loden Scholarship for Higher Education was established in 2012 at the post-school stage. The programme aims to provide financial support and educational guidance to students who come from poor families and rural communities with little or no access to information on higher education and may otherwise miss out on higher education despite being deserving candidates for university education.\n\nLoden runs its Early Learning Centres for children from 4 to 6 years old in rural areas. The foundation's aim was to bring early learning to the children in rural areas as almost all early learning centres in Bhutan are concentrated in urban towns. The foundation also aspires to combine modern ECCD techniques with traditional Bhutanese upbringing practices. There are currently three early learning centres; i) Changmari in Samtse (southern Bhutan) ii) Saling in Mongar (eastern Bhutan) iii) Ura in Bumthang (central Bhutan). The plan is to open similar ECCD centres in other rural parts of the country to provide equal opportunity for early education.\n\nThe Loden Foundation also runs the Loden Knowledge Base, which provides resources and support for higher education and entrepreneurship. The resource centre is currently located in Dewa Khangzang building, top floor, opposite to Bhutan General Post office. The Centre has a good collection of books, mostly on business and entrepreneurship and provides free access to internet. The Centre also organises free seminars, workshops and discussions on a range of topics that are pertinent to the society.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "56351912", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56351912", "title": "Lucy Thurston Blaisdell", "text": "Lucy Thurston Blaisdell\n\nLucy Puniwai Thurston Blaisdell (August 16, 1903 – December 16, 1986 ) was the First Lady of Honolulu 1955–1969. She was by profession a teacher, who had a 36-year career in both Hawaii and New York. \n\nHelen Catherine Kahanuulani Meek and Charles Henry Thurston named their daughter Lucy Puniwai Thurston when she was born in Honolulu. Lucy's mother was of Hawaiian ancestry and had been born in Hilo. Her father, a descendant of American Revolutionary War soldier Robert Thurston, relocated from Nova Scotia in 1889 and a decade later married Helen. In addition to Lucy, their children were Elizabeth, Clara and Paul J. Thurston, Director of the Budget for Hawaii.\n\nIn Scranton, Pennsylvania on October 23, 1926, Lucy married fellow teacher Neal Shaw Blaisdell, a descendant of John Adams Cummins whose mother was High Chiefess Kaumakaokane Papaliʻaiʻaina. The couple had known each other since childhood. Their daughter Velma was born in 1929, and Marilyn Puniwai was born in 1930.\n\nWhen Lucy's father died in 1928, he was Honolulu Fire Chief. His successor as fire chief was William Wallace Blaisdell, Lucy's father-in-law.\n\nLucy received her basic education at the college preparatory Punahou School. Training to become a teacher, she attended Territorial Normal School. Later transferring to Colorado College, she was accepted into the Sigma Upsilon sorority and received her Bachelor of Arts degree in 1926. She then matriculated at Columbia University in New York, where she earned her MA degree.\n\nHer first teaching job was in Rochester, New York, while Neal was the football coach at Bucknell University in Pennsylvania, but the Blaisdells became homesick for Hawaii. In August 1927, they returned to Honolulu where Neal was on staff as athletic coach at President William McKinley High School, and Lucy taught at her old alma mater Territorial Normal School. \n\nIn Honolulu, she was named supervisor over the 7th grade classes at Territorial Normal School in 1930. She returned to Rochester for the 1937–38 school year as an exchange social studies teacher. During her career she also taught at the Honolulu schools of Washington Intermediate, Liliuokalani, Stevenson, President William McKinley High School, Kaimuki High School, Kaimuki Intermediate. She continued her teaching career after her husband was elected mayor, retiring in 1963 in order to spend more time with her family and friends, and to enjoy leisure activities.\n\nEarly on in their marriage, Lucy began documenting Neal's career in a scrapbook, and kept it up throughout his life. She helped him hone his oratory skills by acting as his test audience, and she also campaigned door-to-door on his behalf. An avid golfer herself who participated in women's tournaments, she and her husband golfed together when his time permitted. As a political wife, she refused to make speeches, but acted as hostess at formal and casual gatherings. While she was still teaching, she would put in a full day at school and then make the rounds of evening social and political events with her husband. \n\nNeal referred to her as a \"good partner\", and when he traveled she accompanied him. On a five-week 1957 goodwill tour of the US mainland, in what she would later refer to as the best of her experiences in her role as mayoral wife, Lucy christened the renaming of the \"SS Monterey\" to the \"SS Matsonia\", and the couple sailed home on the ship. As part of the couple's 1959 world tour, they participated in the Fifth Japanese-American Conference of Mayors and Chamber of Commerce Presidents. Lucy reported on their trip in \"The Honolulu Advertiser\", commenting on the people and culture in post-World War II Osaka.\n\nDuring their stop in India, she commented in her newspaper reports that Hawaii's tourism industry might benefit by adapting a few ideas from India's tour guides. She suggested that Hawaii's tour guides incorporate the state's history into the narrative, specifically in downtown Honolulu where Rev. Abraham Akaka had made recordings that could be heard at Kawaiahao Church. One of the things she felt would be important to include on the tours would be information about royal burial rites.\n\nNeal Blaisdell died of a stroke in 1975. Lucy died in 1986. Both are interred at Oahu cemetery in a joint plot.\n"}
{"id": "4721116", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4721116", "title": "Monastic education", "text": "Monastic education\n\nThe Buddhist monastic education system facilitates basic educational needs of the Asian Buddhist countries before the contemporary era. Learning traditions can be traced back to ancient India where learning began with educated monastics, teaching younger monks and the lay people. The monastic instruction was based on Buddhist value system and emphasized that learning was an end in itself, one that is \"worth a strenuous pursuit to possess for its own sake\" and that \"teaching was for ends that were above mere gain\".\n\nThe education system that emerged, particularly from 320 BCE to 500 CE, featured an open framework where learning was free for all including non-Buddhists. The monks used their temples to teach and since these were not enough to address the educational needs of the entire country, learning centers were also built in connection with the monasteries. There were also convents and monasteries offering opportunities for learning and self-culture that catered to women since they were also seen as equal to men, supplementing their work in the spread of their faith. \n\nMonastic education in other countries was heavily influenced by the Indian tradition such as the case of Sri Lanka where the \"sutra sannayas\" was heavily used in preaching, serving as one of the foundations of the Lankan monastic education. The formal monastic education introduced in Bhutan in 1621 was also patterned after the ancient Indian system. These developments show an absence of a standardized monastic education system although there were initiatives that sought to establish a curriculum such as those by the Saranamkara and his students, which stressed the importance of grammar and composition. \n\nNowadays, countries like Myanmar, Thailand, Cambodia, and Laos still practice Buddhist monastic education to fill the gap in the government education system. There are cases, however, when large Buddhist education centers were nationalized within governmental efforts to expand higher education facilities. Some scholars criticized this, citing the destruction of traditional Buddhist education and the politicization of Buddhist monkhood.\n\n"}
{"id": "3455937", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3455937", "title": "Morris K. Udall and Stewart L. Udall Foundation", "text": "Morris K. Udall and Stewart L. Udall Foundation\n\nThe Morris K. Udall and Stewart L. Udall Foundation is an Executive Branch office of the United States Government. The Foundation was established by the Congress in 1992 to honor Morris Udall's thirty years of service in the House of Representatives. Congress amended the name in 2009 to include Stewart Udall, in recognition of his public service. The full official name of the Foundation is Morris K. Udall and Stewart L. Udall Scholarship and Excellence in National Environmental Policy Foundation. The President of the United States appoints its board of trustees with the advice and consent of the Senate.\n\nThe purpose and motto of the Foundation is \"Scholarship and Excellence in national environmental policy.\" To support this purpose the Foundation's programs are:\n\n\nThe Foundation awards 50 scholarships of $7,000 and 50 honorable mentions annually on the basis of merit to sophomore and junior-level college students who:\n\n\nTo apply for the Udall Scholarship, undergraduate students must:\n\n\nIn addition to the financial award, scholars also attend a four-day Udall Scholars Orientation in Tucson, Arizona to meet with other Scholars, elected officials, environmental and tribal leaders. Travel from the Scholar's home or school, lodging, and meals are provided by the Foundation. Scholars also benefit from access to a network of environmental, Native American health and tribal policy professionals through the Udall Alumni Association listserv. The Udall Scholarship is a highly competitive award and is regarded by most universities as one of several \"prestigious scholarships\" (alongside the Churchill Scholarship, the Fulbright Scholarship, the Gates Cambridge Scholarship, the Harry S. Truman Scholarship, the Marshall Scholarship, the Mitchell Scholarship, and the Rhodes Scholarship, ).\n\nAccording to the Foundation, the Native American Congressional Internship Program provides Native Americans and Alaska Natives with an insider's view of the federal government. The ten-week internship in Washington, D.C. places students in Senate and House offices, committees, Cabinet departments and the White House, where they are able to observe government decision-making processes first-hand.\n\nIn 2006, the Foundation expected to award 12 internships on the basis of merit to Native Americans and Alaska Natives who:\n\nThe Foundation's activities are supported by two distinct funds in the U.S. Treasury. Educational activities are supported primarily by interest generated by a trust fund established by Congress; the Foundation may also accept private donations for educational activities. The activities of the U.S. Institute for Environmental Conflict Resolution, which provides assessment, mediation, facilitation and related services to assist in resolving federal environmental conflicts, are supported by annual appropriations and fees charged for services.\n\n, the Foundation's top management is:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "6980512", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6980512", "title": "Multipotentiality", "text": "Multipotentiality\n\nMultipotentiality is an educational and psychological term referring to the ability and preference of a person, particularly one of strong intellectual or artistic curiosity, to excel in two or more different fields.\nIt can also refer to an individual whose interests span multiple fields or areas, rather than being strong in just one. Such traits are called multipotentialities, while \"multipotentialites\" has been suggested as a name for those with this trait.\n\nBy contrast, those whose interests lie mostly within a single field are called \"specialists.\"\n\nAn early instance of the term in the record comes from relevant research in giftedness.\n\nIn 1972, R.H. Frederickson et al. defined a multipotentialed person as someone who, “when provided with appropriate environments, can select and develop a number of competencies to a high level.” \n\nIn 1990, Barbara Kerr defined multipotentiality as such:\nIn 1999, \"multipotentiality\" appears in Laurie Diane Shute's doctoral dissertation which was titled \"An investigation of multipotentiality among university honors students.\" \n\nIn 2010, multipotentiality appears again in Tamara Fisher's article in Education week. She defines it thus:\nAround 2010 or later, Emilie Wapnick coined the term \"multipotentialite\", perhaps to establish a shared identity for the community. She defines it this way:\n\nWhile the term \"multipotentialite\" is often used interchangeably with \"polymath\" or \"Renaissance Person\", the terms are not identical. One need not be an expert in any particular field to be a multipotentialite.\n\nIndeed, Isis Jade makes a clear distinction between multipotentiality and polymaths. Multipotentiality refers simply to one's potential in multiple fields owing to his/her diverse interests and attempts. Polymaths, on the other hand, are distinguished by their mastery and expertise in several fields. In this sense, multipotentialites can be viewed as potential polymaths. \n\nOther terms used to refer to multipotentialites are \"scanners\", \"slashers\", \"generalist\", \"multipassionate\", \"RP2\", and \"multipods\", among others.\n\nWith the advent of the industrial age, cultural norms have shifted in favor of specialization. Indeed, in the modern day, the more narrow the specialization, the higher the pay and respect accorded, for example: PhD graduates, and specialized lawyers, doctors, and engineers. The aphorism Jack of all trades, master of none emphasizes this. (Ironically, the article and it's Wiktionary entry mention a longer couplet: \"Jack of all trades, master of none,\nthough oftentimes better than master of one.\") Older emphasis towards generalism and multiple potentials such as Renaissance humanism and the Renaissance man were replaced.\n\nHowever, the convergence economy, Internet age, connectivity, the rise of the Creative Class, and other modern developments are bringing about a return of a more positive opinion for generalists and multipotentialites.\n\nIn Specialization, Polymaths And The Pareto Principle In A Convergence Economy, Jake Chapman writes:\nOrganizations such as startups that require adaptability and holding multiple roles can employ several multipotentialites and have one specialist as a resource.\n\nIn Specialization, Polymaths And The Pareto Principle In A Convergence Economy, Chapman said:\nStretch Magazine discusses the role of multipotentialites in organizations and how they will believe they will be more in demand in the future.\n\nHistorical context, current conventional wisdom, comparative advantage, USP, among others contribute to the wide acceptance of specialization.\n\nProponents of specialization above cite excellence and its perceived higher rewards compared to mediocrity in everything. Proponents of multiple capabilities below emphasize the importance of adaptability.\n\nIn \"Master of Many Trades\", Robert Twigger goes so far as to coin the word \"monopath\": \"It means a person with a narrow mind, a one-track brain, a bore, a super-specialist, an expert with no other interests — in other words, the role-model of choice in the Western world.\" \n\nThis sentiment is not new. In Time Enough for Love (1973), Robert A. Heinlein wrote:\n\nIn an article on the decline of polymathy, Felipe Fernández-Armesto wrote, \"Universities bear some responsibility for its extinction. Classical Greece, Renaissance Italy and Victorian England all revered and rewarded generalists, for whom today universities have little or no space or patience. Enclosed departments in discrete spaces, with their own journals and jargons, are a legacy of lamentable, out-of-date ways of organising knowledge and work.\"\n\nAdvantages available to these people who have developed skills in multiple fields:\n\n\nAccording to Tim Ferriss, a renowned generalist:\nCaveat: The multipotentialite may encounter several problems if they are mediocre or average at everything. It's recommended to be above intermediate or master of at least one.\n\nJames Liu, founder/developer of BoxCat Games says this:\n\n\nBoredom is also a frequent occurrence in multipotentialites who have already \"mastered\" or learned everything they desire to know about a particular topic before moving on. \n\nThey will also encounter opposition from career counselors, parents and friends who wish for them to choose conventional specialized career paths.\n\nFor the challenges above, several resources have published coping strategies:\n\n\nIn a world that overvalues specialization, the term and its increasing popularity (especially among the blogging community) have contributed to the revival of awareness on the importance of generalists. The concept was even mentioned in a Jamaican newspaper as the subject of a competition's training session.\n\nIn the current economy, Creativity and the rise of the Creative Class are linked to divergent thinking and innovative solutions to current problems. Because new ideas can be found in the intersection of multiple fields, they would benefit from the advantages of multipotentialites.\n\nLeonardo da Vinci may be the most well-known historical example of an acknowledged genius who struggled from the difficulties associated with multipotentiality.\n\nOther notable multipotentialites throughout history excelled in many fields (hence they're also polymaths) such as:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "15795871", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15795871", "title": "Munich School of Political Science", "text": "Munich School of Political Science\n\nThe Bavarian School of Public Policy (German: \"Hochschule für Politik München\") - sometimes also translated as: Munich School of Political Science - is an independent institution within the Technical University of Munich. The Bavarian School of Public Policy is a unique institution, focusing on future-oriented, transdisciplinary, and applied research and teaching. In cooperation with the Technical University of Munich (TUM), the Bavarian School of Public Policy is dedicated to educating the next generation of political scientists. Technological progress in areas like energy, the environment, climate change, big data, data security, and mobility is having an increasingly important impact on the society. To keep up with tomorrow’s key technologies, the course program at HfP provides an opportunity for students to combine the traditional content of a political science degree with technology modules run by diverse TUM departments.\n\nThe Bavarian School of Public Policy was founded during the period of upheaval that followed the end of World War II. Prompted by the US military government, and with the participation of constitutional law lecturer Prof. Hans Nawiasky, a decision was made in fall 1948 to set up an institution with the primary goal of teaching the principles of democracy. The discipline of “political science”, already well-established in the US, would serve as the school’s model. On July 14, 1950 the “Hochschule für Politische Wissenschaften” was founded – as a corporation under private law.\n\nOn October 27, 1970, the Bavarian Parliament enacted the “Law governing the Bavarian School of Public Policy”. This gave the school the status of an “institutionally autonomous institution at the University of Munich”. This made HfP the only institution of higher education in the Federal Republic of Germany whose legal basis is a higher education act unique to that institution. Moreover, the law was also the first higher education act in the Federal Republic of Germany.\n\nIn a law dated February 16, 1981, the Bavarian School of Public Policy was given the legal status of a public body. The main advantage for students was the opportunity to earn a full academic qualification and potentially carry on to complete a PhD.\n\nThe Bavarian Parliament instigated the reform process that is currently underway in October 2013. In July 2014, it decided to make the Technical University of Munich (TUM) the new host university for the Bavarian School of Public Policy. This landmark decision opens up new opportunities to develop the discipline of political science by incorporating insights from TUM’s excellent work in the social sciences, the natural sciences and engineering.\n\nThe law governing the Bavarian School of Public Policy was enacted in early December 2014, and the Constitution in January 2015. On December 18, 2014 the appointment procedure for the new HfP professorships began. Out of 350 applications from Germany and abroad, seven professors were appointed, who took up their duties at the Bavarian School of Public Policy on 1 March / 1 July 2016. In July 2016, the Bavarian School of Public Policy moved to its new premises in the Briennerforum at Königsplatz. In the winter term 2016/17, the new bachelor's program started. This provides a \"full-scale political science education with possible emphasis in policy areas at the interface between politics and technology\".\n\nA fresh take on Political Science – shaping successful society.\n\nThe new Bachelor’s degree in Political Science (B.Sc.), based on a unique concept worldwide, started in the 2016/17 Winter Semester.\n\nAppointed professors at the Bavarian School of Public Policy:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "6578810", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6578810", "title": "National Autonomous University of Nicaragua", "text": "National Autonomous University of Nicaragua\n\nThe National Autonomous University of Nicaragua (, UNAN) is the main state-funded public university of Nicaragua.\n\nIts main campus is located in Managua. The original campus, UNAN-Leon, is located in León and is now secondary, mainly used for medicine majors.\n\nUNAN was the site violent clashes during the 2018 Nicaraguan protests. Protesters fortified the UNAN campus, but were forced to retreat when the university was attacked by paramilitaries aligned with the government.\n\nThe university is divided into five faculties:\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "548627", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=548627", "title": "National Childbirth Trust", "text": "National Childbirth Trust\n\nNCT (National Childbirth Trust) is the UK's largest parent charity. Since 1956 it has supported millions of mothers and fathers through birth and early parenthood whilst also securing major advances in professional practice and public policy.\n\nIt is a movement of parents supporting parents, with 327 local branches and over 5,000 volunteers offering a wide range of activities. These include Bumps and Babies drop-in sessions, Nearly New Sales selling low-cost baby clothes and equipment, and Baby First Aid courses.\n\nNCT’s practitioners provide practical and emotional support for expectant and new parents before and after their baby arrives. Its breastfeeding counsellors and peer supporters support mums with feeding entirely free of charge. Its online information centre and national support line provide information to over five million parents each year. \n\nThe National Childbirth Trust, originally called The Natural Childbirth Trust, was founded in 1956 as the result of an advertisement placed in \"The Times\" by Prunella Briance. Briance suffered two traumatic childbirth experiences and set about changing the situation for other women, so that they should be more humanely treated during pregnancy and labour. Briance was inspired by the writings of British obstetrician Grantly Dick-Read, who is regarded by many as the father of natural childbirth, and became the first president of the NCT. At that time the rules of childbirth dictated that women did as their doctors told them. \n\nBriance's advertisement announced \"A Natural Childbirth Association is to be formed for the promotion and better understanding of the Dick-Read system. Anyone interested write Box...\". The inaugural meeting was held on January 29, 1957 at Caxton Hall with Grantly Dick-Read as one of the speakers. The NCA became the Natural Childbirth Trust in 1958 and the National Childbirth Trust in 1961.\n\n\nThe charity provides free antenatal and postnatal support and information through its nationwide network of over 300 local branches, run by volunteers. Many of these groups are informal drop-ins, such as ‘Bumps and Babies’ groups, where parents usually pay a small fee to cover the costs of tea and coffee.\n\nBaby Cafés, NCT’s free feeding drop-ins primarily based in deprived areas, were used by almost 8,000 women in the UK last year (2017), providing information and support about feeding. It also provided free of charge training for over 150 women to become breastfeeding peer supporters.\n\nNCT trains peer supporters across the UK to provide support to vulnerable new parents. For example, maternity champions on the Mozart Estate in London’s Queens Park; ‘Parents in Mind’ peer support projects to help mums with poor mental health; and a project in Leeds for refugee and asylum-seeking women.<ref>\n"}
{"id": "4340041", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4340041", "title": "New American High Schools", "text": "New American High Schools\n\nThe New American High Schools initiative, started in 1996 under the direction of the United States Secretary of Education Richard W. Riley, is a national recognition program for United States secondary schools.\n\nIn 1996, 1998, 1999, and 2000, a varying number of high schools were selected and honored with the title of \"New American High School showcase site\" at the White House; they are intended to serve as models for schools that have achieved high levels of success. In addition to receiving national recognition, each winning school receives a stipend and technical assistance from the United States Department of Education.\n\nNo new awards have been given since 2000.\n\nThe following is an exhaustive list of sites that have been awarded the New American High School designation:\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "41699654", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41699654", "title": "On the Ball (video game series)", "text": "On the Ball (video game series)\n\nOn the Ball is a football management game series from the German developers Ascaron, former name Ascon. The premiere title in the series is On the Ball, originally titled Anstoss in German. The player is managing a football club in the English League (in the original version the Bundesliga to become the Bundestrainer). The original game was very popular in Germany, so the developer Ascaron created several sequels: \"On the Ball 2\", \"On the Ball 3\", and \"On the Ball Action\". Doppelpass was a bundle that included On the Ball and the self-running add-on Anstoss World Cup Edition. The English version has a minor fan base.\n\nThe player chooses a team in the main menu which has the look of an office. As a manager, the player not only elects the football players for the team, but also run a stadium with the price management and the transfer of players. The football games can be presented in different forms. Then there is a text mode were the games is presented and commentated in text form and the last one has the text and some pictures of a game. The tactic of the own team could be changed and players could be switched. The career is limited to ten seasons.\n"}
{"id": "3824986", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3824986", "title": "Once Upon a Time in High School", "text": "Once Upon a Time in High School\n\nOnce Upon a Time in High School: The Spirit of Jeet Kune Do () is a 2004 South Korean drama film. The background of the film is set in a high school in South Korea, . The original Korean title literally means \"cruel history of Maljuk street\" and one of the filming locations was the present neighborhood of Yangjae-dong, Seocho District in Seoul.\n\nHyun-soo (Kwon Sang-woo), transfers to another school, which is notorious for being one of the worst and most brutal high schools in the country. He is sent to a bottom-rank class and experiences violence in classroom by a group of delinquents in his class led by Jong-hoon (Lee Jong-hyuk), who is a stereotypical Korean bully in school. The teachers are also depicted as authoritarian and brutal to the students, using discipline as an excuse for brutality, as did most Korean teachers up to the 70s. One day on the bus, Hyun-soo sets eyes on and falls in love with Eun-joo (Han Ga-in), and one day when a group of schoolboys start teasing her on the bus, Hyun-soo takes the opportunity to gain her respect, even though it meant starting a riot. After a chase through the neighborhood and being caught in their hiding place (a rat prompted Eun-joo to scream), one of Hyun-soo's friends Kim Woo-sik (Lee Jung-jin), who happens to be a son of a popular actress, steps in and knocks them out. \n\nA relationship triangle was formed between Hyun-soo, Woo-sik, and Eun-joo. One day Hyun-soo while riding his bike noticed Woo-sik and Eun-joo arguing. Taking into account that Hyun-soo was at a disadvantage of winning her heart due to his only achievement being sharing an umbrella with her on a rainy day while Woo-sik did more, he meets her at a rooftop that night and bonds with a romantic song playing on the radio presumably bought for the occasion, much to Woo-sik's jealousy when he saw them unnoticed when he reached the rooftop. One day Hyun-soo and Woo-sik got in a fight over Eun-joo and their friendship was put to an end. This event prompted Woo-sik to the extent of humiliating and beating Ham Jye-bok (Park Hyo-jun) who is called by his nickname \"Hamburger\", who sells pornography to other students. \n\nHe leaves the school and presumably drops out after losing an intense fight with Jong-hoon on the rooftop, never to be seen again. Hyun-soo is now facing greater problems of his own when he concludes Eun-joo left him for Woo-sik again and he has been receiving poor grades prompting his father, a black belt in Tae Kwon Do and an owner of a Tae Kwon Do gym, who has been known to treat his students kindly but treats his son like dirt, to berate him and resort to extreme violence to 'discipline' him and labeled him a 'surplus man', a derogatory term used to describe a person without a future, and kicked him out of his house permanently, never allowed back inside ever again. No longer able to put up with the conduct of Jong-hoon and his boys as well as the extreme brutality and violence being put up by the teachers, Hyun-soo starts to train himself in Jeet Kune Do, inspired by his childhood hero Bruce Lee. Hyun-soo challenges Jong-hoon to a fight one day when he is no longer able to put up with his irrational behaviour. On the same rooftop where Woo-sik lost a fight, Jong-hoon and his gang mates are grievously injured by Hyun-soo's nunchaku and expertise in Jeet Kune Do. \n\nAfter the intense fight, although he won, Hyun-soo still didn't feel any victory. Authorities including a general who is called 'puppet soldier' by students were alerted and they started yelling at him even though it was Jong-hoon who was antagonizing others. At this point, badly influenced by the brutality from his psychopath father and still being accused rather than honored after all this time and effort he invested to master Jeet Kune Do for the sake of bringing justice to the school and proving himself wrong of his status as a surplus man, Hyun-soo totally lost it and smashed some nearby windows and hurled his nunchucks at them and cursed Korea's entire education system for being so corrupt and encouraging brutality no matter how immoral it is, leading to his expulsion.\n\nHyun-soo wasn't punished by his father and he was later sent to a public school. By chance, he runs into Eun-joo and despite being amicable in their meeting, they both part, knowing that their futures have diverted. Hyun-soo later attends a movie with Ham Jye-bok and both goof off with mock martial arts over Bruce Lee vs Jackie Chan.\n\n2004 Baeksang Arts Awards\n\n2004 Grand Bell Awards\n\n2004 Blue Dragon Film Awards\n\n2004 Korean Film Awards\n\n"}
{"id": "34912694", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34912694", "title": "Opportunity trap", "text": "Opportunity trap\n\nThe opportunity trap is the social congestion in the competition for jobs when the number of applicants outstrips the demand for a particular group of workers – in particular, graduate school degree-holding applicants. It is distinct from the opportunity gap which refers to a lack of equal opportunity. An example of fields where the number of applicants far outstrips the available opportunities includes humanities professors. Large numbers of graduate students complete PhD programs in English literature, history and music history, but there are only a handful of openings for professor positions. The PhD graduates who cannot find professor positions may experience underemployment, such as working at a job which does not require their education (e.g., working at Starbucks).\n\nMany commentators, including human capital theorists and proponents of positional consensus theory, assert that there is a tightening relationship between education, jobs and rewards, and that in general, the more qualifications you have, the more employable you are. These ideas have informed policies to widen access to educational opportunities with the goal of promoting equality and maximising efficiency according to meritocratic ideals. However, it can be argued that this perspective fails to take into account the positional nature of qualifications – that is, an individual’s chances of getting a certain job are dependent both on their own skills and qualifications, and the skills and qualifications of the other applicants and on the number of other qualified applicants. Qualifications have both an absolute and a relative value – which diminishes the more people hold them. For example, in a society where 50% of the working population hold university degrees, they will be less valuable than in a society where only 5% hold them.\n\nTaking this relative quality of qualifications into account, it can be argued that widening participation in higher education and qualifications will not necessarily deliver the rewards that human capital theorists have suggested, if the number of graduate degree-requiring jobs does not increase accordingly, and will instead lead to academic inflation:\n\nAccording to this perspective, if everyone holds the same credentials no one gets ahead and the result is a kind of social congestion around sought-after jobs. Brown describes this as an \"opportunity trap\" since few individuals are able to opt out of the competition for jobs and are compelled to strive for credentials in order to be considered employable. It is also argued that in this context of an increasing pool of graduate applicants, employers have been propelled to a stronger position of power as they are increasingly able to demand more from potential employees in a reverse auction. It has also been argued that this process has been exacerbated by offshoring and practices of Digital Taylorism in the workplace.\n\n"}
{"id": "38060849", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38060849", "title": "Oyinkansola Abayomi", "text": "Oyinkansola Abayomi\n\nIyaloye Oyinkansola \"Oyinkan\" Abayomi, Lady Abayomi (6 March 1897 – 19 March 1990) was a Nigerian nationalist and feminist. She was the head of the Nigerian Girl Guides and founder of the Nigerian Women's Party.\n\nShe was born Oyinkansola Ajasa in Nigeria in 1897. She was called Oyinkan (the shortened form of Oyinkansola) by her family. She had a younger brother, Akuisola. He died when he was two. Her father was Sir Kitoye Ajasa, a prominent Yoruba tribesman who was the first Nigerian to be knighted by the British, and her mother was Oyinkan Moore, an omoba of an Egba royal family. She was also the first cousin of Kofo, Lady Ademola. She went to school at the Anglican Girls' Seminary in Lagos. She graduated in 1909. She then went to school at the Young Ladies Academy at Ryford Hall, located in Gloucestershire, England. In 1917, she attended the Royal Academy of Music in London. She moved back to Lagos in 1920. She became a music teacher at the Anglican Girls' Seminary. It was during this time when she met a lawyer named Moronfolu Abayomi. They married in August 1923. He would be assassinated in court two months later.\n\nWhile in England, Abayomi had joined the Girl Guides. When she returned to Nigeria, she connected with the local Lagos Nigerian Girl Guides Association, which was founded by an English woman. Abayomi joined the group and was the first Nigerian woman to serve as a supervisor. She also became active in the education of women and girls in Nigeria, which was not equal to that of men and boys. She joined the Lagos Women's Organization. She did fundraising and promoting for Queen's College through the West African Educated Girls' Club, an organization she founded. It opened in 1927. She was a founding teacher at the school. She was the only Nigerian to work there. Around this time, she became one of the first women in Lagos to drive a car.\n\nIn 1930, Abayomi married the doctor Kofo Abayomi. In 1931, the Girl Guides was recognized and given support by the Nigerian government. Abayomi became the chief commissioner for the Girl Guides. She was the head of the Nigerian Girl Guides Association and the first native Nigerian woman to work for the organization. She joined the Nigerian Youth Movement in 1935. She wrote an article in the organization's journal that year, demanding that wealthy women of Nigeria needed to fight for women's rights and be willing to work with women of middle and lower classes for those rights. On May 10, 1944, she founded the Nigerian Women's Party during a meeting at her home with twelve women. The organization sought equal rights for women. When Kofo Abayomi was knighted by the Queen of England in 1954, Abayomi became known as Lady Abayomi.\n\nSir Kofo Abayomi died on the 1st of January, 1979. Abayomi retired from the Girl Guides in 1982. She was named Life President of the Girl Guides for her work.\n\nAbayomi was honored with five Nigerian chieftaincy titles, including that of the Iya Abiye of Egbaland. She died on 19 March 1990.\n\n"}
{"id": "20306343", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20306343", "title": "Pilot Training College", "text": "Pilot Training College\n\nThe Pilot Training College (PTC) was a JAR Flight Training Organisation (FTO) fully approved for commercial pilot training.\n\nThe training provided is in accordance with the European JAA (Joint Aviation Authorities) requirements for commercial pilots.\n\nPTC has training facilities in Waterford Airport, Ireland, and in Florida, in the US.\n\nPTC offers a range of courses including:\n\nIn July 2012, RTÉ reported that Irish students who had paid up to €80,000 in fees to train in Florida had been stranded because the Florida Institute of Technology had terminated their agreement with PTC over alleged non-payment. That same month the IAA withdrew PTC's license, as a result PTC ceased all training, their website was taken offline with no official explanation or apology.\n\nAt that time Conor J Deeny a trainee pilot assumed the position of spokesman and coordinator for the students stranded in Florida, since this both himself and all other trainee pilots have left America and returned home.\n\nClearsky Pilot Training College is now in place at the same address as the Pilot Training College.\nThe Shemburn Group the parent company of The pilot Training College still have their PA-44 flight simulator approved at this address according to the I.A.A website\nhttps://archive.is/20130218041104/http://www.iaa.ie/index.jsp?a=378&n=401&p=398\n\n"}
{"id": "3786645", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3786645", "title": "Project Pericles", "text": "Project Pericles\n\nProject Pericles Inc. is a non-profit organization composed of liberal arts colleges and universities geared towards the ideas that social responsibility and participatory citizenship are essential parts of an undergraduate curriculum, in the classroom, on campus, and in the community.\n\nConceived by Eugene M. Lang, a retired businessman known for his educational philanthropy, Project Pericles seeks to counter the growing political cynicism and civic disengagement of young people. Convinced that higher education must promote social and civic engagement, in 1999 Lang organized a planning committee and consulted with college presidents, trustees, faculty, students, and others. By the end of 2000, the objectives, policies, and startup plans of Project Pericles were set. Ten colleges and universities became “founding Pericleans.” \n\nThe Boards of the Pericleans formally committed their institutions to the policies and objectives of Project Pericles. Their presidents formed a Presidents’ Council to cooperate in policy-making and program development and implementation. The planning committee became the Board of Directors. Distinguished educational, business, political, and community leaders became the National Board of Advisors. \n\nIn April 2003, the first ten Pericleans met in New York for the first national conference of Project Pericles. Delegates included presidents, provosts, deans, faculty, students, and alumni. In August 2003, Project Pericles established an independent office and hired Karen E. Holt as Executive Director. In November 2005, Jan R. Liss became its second Executive Director.\n\nIn 2004 and 2005, a select group of new Pericleans added to the diversity of Project Pericles. The spirit of Pericleans and cumulative experience continue to strengthen Project Pericles in its mission as a transforming force for higher education.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "21119143", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21119143", "title": "Restaurant Empire II", "text": "Restaurant Empire II\n\nRestaurant Empire II is the sequel to \"Restaurant Empire\". It has new features such as new themes for American restaurants, over 700 pieces of new internal and external furniture and decorations, the addition of German cuisine and the city of Munich, and several others. The game has also been ported to Mac OS X by Virtual Programming, Ltd.\n\nThe player controls the kind of cuisine the restaurant serves (American, French, Italian, German). Along with Munich, other cities include Los Angeles, Paris, and Rome.\n\nAs a new feature, the player can also own various kinds of restaurants, including a coffee shop and a dessert house. In the campaign mode, many new features have been added, such as organizing performance in your restaurant and changing the colors of the uniforms on your staff. Returning characters are Armand and Michel LeBoeuf, Delia Delecoeur, and Don Corleone. The campaign mode features a remade version of the campaign in the original Restaurant Empire. The game also focuses more on the managerial aspects of running a restaurant empire.\n\nReviews have been mixed, with praise for adding new content and keeping the game alive, but complaints about micromanagement and the recycled graphics.\n\nMetacritic rates it as \"Mixed or average reviews.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "863620", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=863620", "title": "Savannah College of Art and Design", "text": "Savannah College of Art and Design\n\nSavannah College of Art and Design (SCAD) is a private, nonprofit, accredited university with locations in Savannah, Georgia; Atlanta, Georgia; Hong Kong; and Lacoste, France.\n\nFounded in 1978 to provide degrees in programs not yet offered in the southeast, the university now operates two locations in Georgia, a degree-granting location in Hong Kong, a degree-granting online education program, and a study abroad location in Lacoste, France with rotating course offerings. The university enrolls more than 13,000 students from across the United States and around the world with international students comprising up to 14 percent of the student population. SCAD is accredited by the Southern Association of Colleges and Schools Commission on Colleges and other regional and professional accrediting bodies.\n\nRichard G. Rowan, Paula S. Wallace, May L. Poetter and Paul E. Poetter legally incorporated the Savannah College of Art and Design September 29, 1978. The university opened the following year with five trustees, four staff members, seven faculty members, and 71 students. The school offered eight majors. In May 1981, the first graduate received a degree. The following year, the first graduating class received degrees. In 1982, the enrollment grew to more than 500 students, then to 1,000 in 1986, and 2,000 in 1989. In 2014, the university enrolled more than 11,000 students.\n\nSCAD opened a study abroad location in Lacoste, France in 2002 that provides programming for the various academic departments offered by the university's degree-granting locations. It launched an online learning program in 2003 that U.S. News and World Report ranks as among the best for bachelor's programs in the nation. In 2005 the university opened a location in Midtown Atlanta that merged with the Atlanta College of Art in 2006. In September 2010, SCAD opened a Hong Kong location in the Sham Shui Po district.\nRichard Rowan served as president of the college from its inception in 1978 until April 2000, when SCAD's board of trustees promoted him to chancellor. As chancellor, Rowan spent most of his time traveling and recruiting international students and staff. In 2001, he resigned the job and left the college.\n\nPaula S. Wallace is the current president. Wallace, formerly Paula S. Rowan, served as SCAD's provost and dean of academics before becoming president. As president, Wallace directs the internal management of the institution. Wallace has led the collaboration for several annual events, such as the Sidewalk Arts Festival, Savannah Film Festival, a Fashion Show, SCAD Style, deFine Art Festival, Art Educators' Forum and Rising Star.\n\nSCAD's efforts to work with the city of Savannah to preserve its architectural heritage include restoring buildings for use as college facilities, for which it has been recognized by the American Institute of Architects, the National Trust for Historic Preservation, the Historic Savannah Foundation and the Victorian Society of America. The college campus includes 67 buildings throughout the grid-and-park system of downtown Savannah. Many buildings are on the famous 21 squares of the old town, which are laden with monuments, live oaks and a Southern-Gothic feel.\n\nLocated in Atlanta's Midtown, SCAD Atlanta includes classroom and exhibition space, computer labs, library, photography darkrooms, printmaking and sculpture studios, a dining hall, fitness center, swimming pool and residence hall. SCAD Atlanta's Ivy Hall opened in 2008 after extensive restoration. In 2009, SCAD Atlanta opened the Digital Media Center.\n\nThe SCAD Lacoste campus is made up of 15th- and 16th-century structures. The campus includes an art gallery, guest houses, computer lab and printmaking lab. In Hong Kong, SCAD occupies renovated historic North Kowloon Magistracy Building, with more than . It is equipped with classrooms, meeting areas, computer labs, an art gallery and library.\n\nThe college's first academic building was the Savannah Volunteer Guard Armory, which was purchased and renovated in 1978-79. Built in 1892, the Romanesque Revival red brick structure is included on the National Register of Historic Places. Originally named Preston Hall, the building was renamed Poetter Hall in honor of co-founders May and Paul Poetter. SCAD soon expanded rapidly, acquiring buildings in Savannah's downtown historic and Victorian districts, restoring old and often derelict buildings that had exhausted their original functions.\nThe College operates four libraries: Jen Library in Savannah, Georgia; ACA Library in Atlanta, Georgia; Hong Kong Library in Hong Kong; and Lacoste Library in Lacoste, France. There is also a large amount of resources available via the eLearning Library.\n\nThe most notable of the group is Jen Library for the size of its collection. The Jen Library houses approximately 42,000 books, 11,000 bound volumes of periodicals, and 1,600 videotapes in an 85,000 square foot building. The building, itself, once served as a Maas Brothers department store before being acquired and repurposed by the University. Its structural and design features include a large glass staircase and floor-to-ceiling windows on opposite corners of the building. The Jen Library houses multiple rare collections containing both books and visual arts materials including the Don Bluth Collection of Animation and the Newton Collection of British and American Art. It is also home to the Gutstein Gallery, an assemblage of contemporary art from both nationally recognized artists as well as SCAD alumni.\n\nMost students live outside of the residence halls, as there are no formal campus grounds other than those contained by the building properties themselves. In Atlanta the university provides two residence halls, ACA Residence Hall of SCAD and Spring House. The Hong Kong residence hall is the Hong Kong Gold Coast residences. The residence halls in Savannah are Barnard Village, Boundary Village, Montgomery House, Oglethorpe House, Pulaski House, Turner House, Turner House Annex, and the Hive student housing complex, consisting of Apiary, Bumble, Colony, Dance, Everest, Flower, Garden and Honey at The Hive. Students in Lacoste live in Maison Pitot, Fortunee, Renard, Murier, Olivier, and Basse.\n\nThe university operates 16 galleries, notably Gutstein Gallery, Pei Ling Chan Gallery, Pinnacle Gallery and La Galerie Bleue in Savannah; Gallery 1600, Trois Gallery and Gallery See in Atlanta; and Moot Gallery in Hong Kong.\n\nSCAD offers fine art degrees. SCAD enrolled more than 10,461 students in 2010 from all 50 states, and 100 countries. International student enrollment is 10 to 12 percent.\n\nSCAD is accredited by the Commission on Colleges of the Southern Association of Colleges and Schools to award bachelor's and master's degrees. The university confers Bachelor of Arts, Bachelor of Fine Arts, Master of Architecture, Master of Arts, Master of Arts in Teaching, Master of Fine Arts and Master of Urban Design degrees, as well as undergraduate and graduate certificates. The professional M.Arch. degree is accredited by the National Architectural Accrediting Board. The Master of Arts in Teaching degrees offered by SCAD are approved by the Georgia Professional Standards Commission. SCAD is licensed by the South Carolina Commission on Higher Education. The SCAD interior design Bachelor of Fine Arts degree is accredited by the Council for Interior Design Accreditation.\n\nThe university offers a study-abroad campus in Lacoste, France. In Fall 2010, SCAD opened SCAD Hong Kong in the former North Kowloon Magistracy.\n\nThe university is divided into eight schools:\n\n\n\n\n\n\nSchool of Digital Media\n\n\n\n\nThere are 80 student organizations related to academic and non-academic programs and activities. SCAD has no fraternities or sororities.\n\nThe university has multiple student-run media organizations at its Savannah and Atlanta campuses.\n\nDistrict (an online-only news publication), The Manor (an online fashion magazine), Port City Review (an annual literary publication), The HoneyDripper (a sequential art and illustration blog) and SCAD Radio (an online webcasting station) are produced by students at the Savannah location. The Connector (an online-only news publication), SCAN Magazine (a quarterly general interest magazine) and SCAD Atlanta Radio are produced by students at the Atlanta location.\n\nThe SCAD Savannah teams compete in the Sun Conference, while the SCAD Atlanta teams compete in the Appalachian Athletic Conference.\n\nSCAD Savannah athletic teams are known as the Bees. The college is a member of the National Association of Intercollegiate Athletics (NAIA), primarily competing in The Sun Conference. Men's sports include cross country, equestrian, golf, lacrosse, soccer, swimming, tennis and track & field; while women's sports include cross country, equestrian, golf, lacrosse, soccer, swimming, tennis and track & field.\n\nFencing is offered as a club sport. Opportunities for athletics participation also exist through the college's intramural programs. Volleyball, beach volleyball, basketball, soccer, flag football, softball and various other activities are available at the intramural level.\n\nOn June 17, 2003, Savannah College of Art and Design executive vice president Brian Murphy and athletic director Jud Damon announced that the university would be changing athletic affiliation from National Collegiate Athletic Association Division III and rejoining the NAIA. SCAD had been a Division III member since 1992, but would now be joining the Florida Sun Conference. The college was a member of the NAIA from 1987–1992 and renewed membership in the NAIA and the FSC (now The Sun Conference) beginning with the 2003-04 season.\n\nSCAD Atlanta athletic teams are likewise known as the Bees.\n\nIn 2010, the SCAD Atlanta location entered the National Association of Intercollegiate Athletics in men's and women's golf, men's and women's tennis and men's and women's cross-country.\n\nSCAD Atlanta is also a member of the National Association of Intercollegiate Athletics (NAIA), the Atlanta campus competes in the Appalachian Athletic Conference. Men's sports include cross country, golf and tennis; while women's sports include cross country, golf and tennis.\n\n The college holds numerous lectures, performances and film screenings at two historic theaters it owns, the Trustees Theater and the Lucas Theatre for the Arts. These theaters also are used once a year for the Savannah Film Festival in late October/early November. Past guests of the festival include Roger Ebert, Peter O'Toole, Tommy Lee Jones, Norman Jewison, Ellen Burstyn, Sir Ian McKellen, Oliver Stone, Liam Neeson, James Franco, Sydney Lumet, Miloš Forman, Michael Douglas, Woody Harrelson, John Goodman, Claire Danes, James Gandolfini, Patrick Stewart, Holly Hunter and many others. With average attendance more than 40,000, the event includes a week of lectures, workshops and screenings of student and professional films. There also is a juried competition.\n\nEach April, SCAD hosts the Sidewalk Arts Festival in downtown Forsyth Park. The festival consists primarily of the chalk-drawing competition, which is divided into group and individual categories of students, alumni and prospective students. Similar is the Sand Arts Festival. This sand festival is held every spring on the beaches of nearby Tybee Island. Contestants can work alone or in groups of up to four people. The competition is divided into sand relief, sand sculpture, sand castle and wind sculpture divisions.\n\nIndividual departments host yearly and quarterly shows to promote student work. Conferences such as the GDX conference and events such as SCAD Style and offer opportunities for networking.\n\nStudents tend to frequent en masse non-SCAD-affiliated events if they are held in the historic district — for example, the Savannah Jazz Festival and the Savannah Shakespeare Festival (both in Forsyth Park) — not to mention the St. Patrick's Day celebration.\n\nIn the late 1980s and early 1990s, a rash of faculty suicides prompted a nervous reaction from school administrators. The unrest led a competing art school to open downtown, igniting an \"all-out war.\"\n\nStudent unrest grew in the early 1990s regarding student representation within the school, culminating in 1992 with the detonation of an explosive device at the administration building, and two more later that year, at the Savannah Civic Center.\n\nIn 2014, publicist Bobby Zarem was fired from the SCAD-run Savannah Film Festival for being a whistleblower on campus sexual assault. Zarem alleged that four women informed him they were assaulted on campus, and that school president Paula Wallace launched a cover-up of these incidents.\n\nMore recently, questions have been raised about the unusual pay packages granted to SCAD's president, Paula Wallace and her family. Paula Wallace received $9.6 million in compensation in 2014, and 13 members of her family have received $60 million over the past 20 years. Additionally, the American Association of University Professors places SCAD on its list of censured institutions over SCAD's treatment of its professors.\n\nThe school has come under fire for its unusual rate of student deaths. Three have occurred since the beginning of the 2018 academic year, with two of them being suicides.\n\n"}
{"id": "8807637", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8807637", "title": "School health and nutrition services", "text": "School health and nutrition services\n\nSchool health and nutrition services are services provided through the school system to improve the health and well-being of children and in some cases whole families and the broader community. These services have been developed in different ways around the globe but the fundamentals are constant: the early detection, correction, prevention or amelioration of disease, disability and abuse from which school aged children can suffer.\n\nIt was shown by statistics that many pupils were behind in their studies only because of lack of physical vitality. In 1920, it was shown that so many pupils in the schools of Brooklyn, New York, were compelled to pass through the same grades twice that, at the average cost of $40 a term for each pupil, the borough lost $2,000,000. On this basis various social organizations demanded an appropriation from the city of $100,000 for more effective medical aid to the school children, contending that more than half of the extra expense could thus be saved. Out of 252,000 school-children inspected in New York City in 1919, 74% were found defective physically, defective teeth and vision being the chief faults.\n\nUnesco has published a set of tools, to support the FRESH framework, to guide those wishing to set up school health services around the world. Designed primarily for developing nations, these tools can be of universal use . The main emphasis of these tools is on: \n\nSchool health services are well developed in the United States. Central guidelines are provided by \"Making Health Academic\" but each state and within that each school board has adopted its own specific methods.\n\nThis is a five-year project funded by CDC's Division of Adolescent and School Health (DASH) designed to enable all schools to be part of a co-ordinated school health program. The project is built around the fact that six preventable behaviours, mainly learned in childhood and youth, account for most of the serious illnesses and premature deaths in the United States; these are:\n\n\n\nThe health of children and youth in the UK is mainly the responsibility of the NHS, for example child health screening and advice for parents of overweight children . School based services are therefore more limited than in the US.\n\n\nIndicators of school health in Morocco are troublesome. A recent article by the European Institute of Health Sciences (Institut Européen des Sciences de la Santé) in Casablanca noted that:\n\nSchool health services are traditionally provided by school nurses, but there is a severe shortage of qualified school nurses. The Institute therefore proposes both a one-year specialization program in school nursing designed for registered general nurses and a one-year program for qualifying teachers in providing school health services.\n\nSchool health systems are expanding in low- and middle-income countries. Information on school health in these countries is collated on the Schools and Health website maintained by the Partnership for Child Development. A database of School Health and Nutrition (SHN) Programmes in low and middle income countries can be found on the site:\n\n\nMedical inspection in schools was first instituted in France in 1886, then, in succession, this example was followed by Belgium, Hungary, Chile, Germany and Great Britain, the latter in 1908. In the United States, medical inspection in schools was first instituted in New York City in 1892, then in Boston in 1894, in Chicago in 1895, and in Philadelphia in 1898.\n"}
{"id": "33576830", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33576830", "title": "School uniforms in South Korea", "text": "School uniforms in South Korea\n\nAlmost all South Korean secondary students wear a prescribed school uniform, \"gyobok\" (). The majority of elementary schools except some private elementary schools do not have uniforms; however, the uniform is strictly enforced from the start of middle school and up. A typical South Korean uniform usually consists of a shirt, blazer and tie, with skirts for girls and trousers for boys. More recently, the uniform is often worn by celebrities who target the younger, teen audience to sell entertainment products. The school uniform and school setting is frequently used as a venue for romance. As a result, the uniform has become something akin to an expression of fashion among students.\n\nThe Encyclopedia of Korean Culture divides the history of school uniforms into six parts: the 1800s-1910, 1910-1945, 1945-1968, 1968-1982, 1982-1985, 1986-current. While the first instances of school uniforms were shown in schools established in the late Goryeo period, a general influence is attributed to Confucius students from the Joseon period.\n\nThe first school uniform in South Korea is from the Ewha Girl's University, now known as Ewha Womans University. The uniform was designated in 1886. The uniform consisted of a red jeogori and skirt made of cotton. The hair was braided swept-back with a knot. Clothing designed as a veil was used as an outdoor uniform. A heavier version of the clothing was used during the winter. Since the tradition was to wear different colored uniforms, the same red-colored uniform became a matter of curiosity.\n\nThe first boy's school uniform in South Korea originates from the boys' school Paichai Hakdang established by Henry Appenzeller. The uniform was created in 1898. The uniform heavily resembled the Japanese school uniform, consisting of red color bands wrapped around the sleeves, pants, and hat. Some scholars argue that the tradition of Korean school uniforms began with this uniform. Hansung Middle School, which was established in 1904, used a black durumagi with a black belt and a hat with the words 'Hansung' for a uniform.\n\nIn 1907, the first 'Yangjang' uniform was created in the Sookmyung Women's University. The uniform consisted of a purple serge one-piece clothing with a pink bonnet and heels. The uniform had a strong impact on Korean culture.\n\nAfter the Japan-Korea Treaty of 1910, the school uniforms were widely implemented. This movement was heavily influenced by Western missionaries and was centered around girls-only schools. In general, Jeogori was elongated while the skirt was shortened. The previously diverse colors in school uniforms became less and less diverse, with most uniforms becoming shades of black and white. In the 1920s, most of the girl uniforms came to have the 'white top black bottom' policy. However, schools differentiated their uniforms from others by means such as wave patterns and skirt lengths. Because the skirts were getting shorter, schools implemented an official policy concerning the length of the skirt. However, the skirt lengths kept decreasing. Also in the 1920s, P.E. uniforms were introduced. There were many types of P.E. uniforms, but it mostly consisted of a shirt and bloomers.\n\nIn the 1930s, the Empire of Japan, which ruled over Korea, implemented a policy to unify the girls' uniforms as 'yangjang.' The change in policy is attributed to both a growing awareness of Western culture and a movement by Japan to get rid of hanbok. The most widespread school uniform for girls was a white blouse with a brown skirt, and a sailor suit uniform in the winter. However, a few schools still maintained the hanbok uniform.\n\nIn the late 1930s to the 1940s, students were forced to wear workwear. This was due to the beginning of World War II and Japan's involvement in the war. The uniform was dubbed 'Mum-Bae (몸빼).' Some schools avoided this policy by designating other pants as uniforms. Other schools such as ChungShim Women's School refused to comply with the policy and wore hanbok.\n\nWith the completion of the Korean independence movement and the independence of Korea, the workwear uniform was discarded. Until the 1960s, uniform pants were still worn as the official uniform. The uniforms were generally black or dark brown.\n\nIn 1968, the government established the 'Middle School Equalization Policy.' The Middle School uniforms were standardized at this time. The summer uniform was established as a white 'Wing-collar' blouse and the winter uniform as black or dark brown clothing. This policy was maintained until 1982.\n\nFrom 1983 to 1985, school uniforms were briefly abolished due to a 'free school uniform policy.' The policy was established to diminish the senses of oppression and alienation while encouraging individualism. This policy was removed in 1986 when schools were allowed to mandate uniforms again. Since then, the number of schools mandating uniforms had been increasing.\n\nSchools are currently not compelled to institute school uniforms. However, according to the Ministry of Education (South Korea), 96.4% of female students are wearing uniforms. To combat temperature, sexual harassment, and traditional sexual discrimination, the Ministry of Education (South Korea) has been encouraging the usage of pants as school uniforms, as of 2000.\n\nA typical Korean school uniform for a boy usually includes a jacket, a long-sleeved collared white shirt, a tie, dress trousers, and outerwear for the Winter season. A girl's Korean school uniform generally consists of a bow, a collared white shirt with sleeves, a vest, a pleated skirt and outerwear for the winter, and white socks. Nail polish and make-up were generally not allowed until many municipal education departments enacted 'Student's rights acts' which include freedom of uniform and freedom of hair style.\n\n"}
{"id": "18629818", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18629818", "title": "Speaking Circles", "text": "Speaking Circles\n\nSpeaking Circles are small groups of 8-10 people who come together to feel at ease in public speaking. Originally developed as a way to combat stage fright, independent practitioners now also report successful applications to treating stuttering, attention-deficit hyperactivity disorder and other social challenges.\n\nSpeaking Circles were developed in the late 1970s by former stand-up comedian Lee Glickstein, who codified the methods he found successful in addressing his own experience of stage fright. Subsequently, Glickstein registered the name Speaking Circles as a trademark and incorporated a business, Speaking Circles International, to deliver training using his methods through a network of licensed facilitators. The Speaking Circles website now lists over 50 facilitators who have paid for initial training and ongoing certification and who now operate their own practices across the United States, Belgium, Canada, England, Ireland, Germany, Netherlands, Mexico and Japan.\n\nThe core of Glickstein's method is a state of mind he calls \"Relational Presence\", something he describes as \"a state of receptivity to another without agenda or effort.\"\n\nTraditional oratory and rhetorical approaches to public speaking highlight performance as a key to engaging and holding an audience. Metaphorically, speakers are seen as connecting with their audiences by 'reaching out' to them through compelling words, gestures and arguments.\n\nIn contrast, speakers applying Relational Presence techniques invite connection by establishing a sense of intimate safety. The speaker and each audience member understand that it's OK to simply be themselves and no performance is required.\n\nThe most usual method of a speaker establishing Relational Presence with an audience is through non-threatening eye contact made by the speaker with individual members of the audience, and held for longer than usual periods of time (usually a minimum of few seconds for each audience member engaged in this way).\n\nThere is research to suggest that this sort of eye contact releases the social bonding hormone Oxytocin, which may well explain the increased sense of safety and trust that speakers and audiences report feeling when a speaker is connecting using Relational Presence.\n\nOther research by Dr Stephen Porges suggests that extended non-threatening eye-contact activates what he calls the Social Engagement System, which acts as a brake on the normal fight or flight response, slows the heart rate and thereby creates a sense of safety. More details of the relationship between Dr Porges work and Relational Presence can be found in this article.\n\nLicensed facilitators teach Relational Presence through an approach sharing elements in common with group psychotherapy. It aims to gradually repair the damage left behind from any earlier public traumas in life.\n\nThe following description describes a typical evening 2-3 hour Speaking Circle meeting, although many facilitators run Speaking Circle workshops lasting 1 or more days:\n\n"}
{"id": "32696473", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32696473", "title": "TuiaNet", "text": "TuiaNet\n\nTuiaNet or Tuia was the first national research and education network in New Zealand established in 1992, and essentially provided the first Internet backbone for the country. This backbone provided a 48kbit/s connection between every New Zealand university, many Crown Research Institutes (CRIs) and the National Library, along with an international connection of 128 kbit/s (1992) to 512 kbit/s (1994) to NASA Ames. By 1993, the parties involved in the network rarely met again and private Internet companies soon emerged.\n\nThe major international connection was soon replaced with the Southern Cross Cable, and a new national research and education network emerged through the Kiwi Advanced Research and Education Network (KAREN) in 2006.\n\n"}
{"id": "28110458", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28110458", "title": "UNESCO Champion for Sport", "text": "UNESCO Champion for Sport\n\nUNESCO Champions for Sport are international celebrity sport personalities advocates for the United Nations agency UNESCO. This family of world-class athletes purveys UNESCO's message the world over. As well, they reflect UNESCO's concerns to promote the values of physical education and sports with a view of building a better future for younger generations. \n\nCurrently, twelve personalities are designated UNESCO Champion for Sport:\n\n"}
{"id": "19572967", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19572967", "title": "Uppsala Programme for Holocaust and Genocide Studies", "text": "Uppsala Programme for Holocaust and Genocide Studies\n\nThe Uppsala Programme for Holocaust and Genocide Studies () is an academic institute conducting research in Holocaust and genocide studies. It is a part of the Centre for Multiethnic Research of the Faculty of Philosophy and History at Uppsala University. \nAs part of its national information campaign focusing on the Holocaust and genocide, the Swedish government finances the Uppsala Programme for Holocaust and Genocide Studies. Housed within the Centre for Multiethnic Research of the Faculty of History and Philosophy, the Programme commenced its research and educational activities in 1998. The Programme is guided by a three-part mandate: research and publication, documentation, and continuing education, primarily of teachers. Additional funding is provided by the Uppsala University Rector's office. Studies are published by the programme in international journals as well as in publications of the university like Studia Multiethnica Upsaliensia, Uppsala Multiethnic Papers and Acta Sueco-Polonica.\n\nThe programme is cooperating with academic institutions through research and pedagogical exchange both within Sweden and with universities in Australia, Germany, France, Israel, Canada, Poland, the United Kingdom and the United States.\n\n"}
{"id": "28209541", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28209541", "title": "Viji Prakash", "text": "Viji Prakash\n\nVijaya Lakshmi Prakash, popularly known as Viji Prakash, is an Indian Bharata Natyam dancer, instructor, choreographer, and founder of the Shakti Dance Company and Shakti School of Bharata Natyam. Prakash has worked in the USA since 1976.\n\n"}
{"id": "6581750", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6581750", "title": "Wirtschaftsgymnasium", "text": "Wirtschaftsgymnasium\n\nA Wirtschaftsgymnasium (plural Wirtschaftsgymnasien) is a kind of school in Germany. Unlike the German Gymnasium, which spans grades (years) 5 to 13, the Wirtschaftsgymnasium has only the top three grades (\"Oberstufe\") and specializes in teaching business-related topics beside the normal subjects in the Gymnasium.\n\nAdmission to the Wirtschaftsgymnasium is voluntary for all students in the tenth year of the Realschule or the same year at the Gymnasium. In order to be allowed to attend a Wirtschaftsgymnasium, a student from the Realschule needs satisfactory grades (marks) in the main subjects German, Mathematics and English, namely an average grade better than 3.0 (in the German grade system, which goes from 1 (best) to 6 (worst). Moreover, the student is not allowed to have grades worse than 4 in the three aforementioned subjects. Students from the Gymnasium need marks (grades) that would have allowed them to move up to the next grade (year) at Gymnasium.\n\nIf too many students apply for admission for a specific Wirtschaftsgymnasiumsen, the school is allowed to set a higher admissions standard.\n\nIn Germany, education is the responsibility of the federal state (\"Land\"); so the requirements and classes differ from state to state. The following article gives the situation in Baden-Württemberg.\n\nIn the first year at Wirtschaftsgymnasium (11th grade, the eleventh year of school education), pupils can take another foreign language in addition to English (which is compulsory). Generally, the alternatives differ from school to school, but French and Spanish are the most common. If a school has no teacher for Spanish, all students are required to take French.\n\nThe type of language course that a student is permitted to take depends on what school the student previously attended. A student who previously attended a Gymnasium, or took the French class at the Realschule, will already have had three years of a second foreign language (usually French) and may take the advanced course in French (\"Französich - Niveau A\") or the beginners' course in Spanish (\"Spanisch - Niveau B\"). If the student comes from a Realschule and had no former second foreign language, he or she is free to choose between the beginners' class in French or Spanish (\"Französisch / Spanisch - Niveau B\").\n\nAll pupils are required to take the subject Economics and Business Accounting (\"Betriebs- und Volkswirtschaftslehre mit wirtschaftlichem Rechnungswesen\", VBRW for short). In Baden-Württemberg, students are required to attend six lessons (of 45 minutes) a week in this subject.\n\nIn the second year, the \"Kursstufe\" begins. All marks now count toward Abitur, the final exam, passing which permits students to attend universities in Germany.\n\nStudents now have to take one additional major subject (\"Leistungskurs\") in addition to the compulsory major subject of Economics and Business Accounting.\n\nTo be awarded a pass in the final Abitur exam, students must obtain a pass in Economics and Business Accounting, one language (German, English or their second foreign language) and three others subjects from their timetable. Students who took a beginners' course in a second foreign language are only allowed to take an oral exam in this subject.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "44970224", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44970224", "title": "Young People's Trust for the Environment", "text": "Young People's Trust for the Environment\n\nYoung People's Trust for the Environment (YPTE) is a British charity founded in 1982, to encourage young people's understanding of the environment. The charity's main goal is to give young people a real awareness of environmental issues such as climate change, pollution, deforestation and endangered flora & fauna. It also aims to provide views to take into account the realities of the modern world. Sustainable development and industry with less impact.\n\nYPTE offers free learning resources via their website to assist teachers in educating young people about the environment and sustainability.\n\nYPTE provide free school talks to schools on environmental issues.\n\nThe trust has given various Parliamentary Receptions at the House of Commons in London, providing the opportunity for Members of Parliament to meet young people involved in the trust's work.\n\nIn 2011 the trust launched the ‘Roots to Green Living’ campaign. The scheme provided eight schools in the Bristol/Bath and NE Somerset area with regular support from a YPTE Education Officer, who worked with them over the course of three years to develop environmental education opportunities within the school grounds and help to embed environmental learning into the schools’ curricula.\n\nThe YPTE run various awards for schools to enter and compete for prizes.\n\nThe annual Total Green School Awards are an award for excellence in environmental education. Open to primary schools in England, Scotland and Wales. sponsored by Total. It involves over 45,000 children and offers the chance for primary schools to win £5,000. The awards are given to schools that have a created an outstanding educational piece of work about the environment.\n\nIn 2011, Total Gas & Power won the 'Community Initiative of the Year' award at the Utility Industry Achievement Awards, held at London's Grosvenor House Hotel, for their involvement in the Total Green School Award.\n\nThe National Award Ceremony for 2013 was held at the Science Museum in London on 20 June 2013. Normanton on Soar Primary School were named UK champions and were presented with their prize by The Right Honourable Kenneth Clarke QC MP and BBC celebrity Darregh Mortell.\n\nThe Total Green School Awards have been running since 2007. As well as the overall champions (listed below) each year recognises a regional champion from one of the four UK regions and the four winning schools in each region.\n\nThe Have Your Say on Sustainability award, is an Environmental film-making competition. In partnership with Eurostar the competition invites 11- to 18-year-olds to create a short video clip sharing their views on the environment. Five winners travel to the European Parliament in Brussels to air their views in front of an audience of MEPs. they also receive vouchers worth £250 for their school to spend on technological equipment. The overall winner wins a three-day stay for four at Disneyland Paris.\n\nFrom 1993 to 1997 YPTE ran the Young Naturalist of the Year Awards in conjunction with BT to encourage children aged 8–13 to carry out research on anything from insects to elephants, nature trails to rain forests and acid rain to global warming. Winners received a dolphin trophy and £500 for their school.\n\nYPTE is largely dependent on funding from corporates and grant-making trusts. Past and present sponsors include:\n\n\n\n"}
