{"id": "37185635", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37185635", "title": "2012 Ramu violence", "text": "2012 Ramu violence\n\nThe 2012 Ramu violence refers to a series of attacks on Buddhist monasteries, shrines, and houses of Buddhist inhabitants in Ramu Upazila in Cox's Bazar District in Bangladesh by local mobs on the midnight past 29 September 2012. The mobs destroyed 12 Buddhist temples and monasteries and 50 houses in reaction to a tagging of an image depicting the desecration of a Quran on the timeline of a fake Facebook account under a Buddhist male name. The actual posting of the photo was not done by the Buddhist who was falsely slandered. The Buddhist was innocent of the accusation. The violence later spread to Ukhia Upazila in Cox's Bazar District and Patiya Upazila in Chittagong District where Buddhist monasteries, Sikh Gurudwaras and Hindu temples were targeted for attacks.\n\nAn estimated 25,000 people participated in the violence directed at Buddhists and over 300 people were arrested in connection to the attacks.\n\nAn image depicting the desecration of a Quran was posted on the wall of one Uttam Kumar Barua's Facebook profile by an unidentified person using a pseudonym. Coincidentally, Uttam Kumar Barua, a resident of Ramu in Cox's Bazar District and an employee of the Bangladesh Small and Cottage Industries, happened to be a Buddhist by faith.\n\nSome local residents took offence to the incident and staged processions and demonstrations in Ramu in the afternoon and evening of 29 September.\n\nOn 29 September, at around 10 p.m., a procession was held in Ramu in protest of the perceived blasphemous image uploaded to a Facebook account. Newspaper reports stated that local Awami League leaders were initially seen mobilising the mob and emphasising the sentimental religious issue to counter the opposition. \"The Daily Star,\" a widely circulated national daily, reported that a motley group comprising local leaders of pro-Awami League organisations, BNP men, madrasa students and common people were allegedly behind the communal violence at Ramu on Saturday night. At a subsequent procession, some people demanded the arrest of Uttam Kumar Barua. At around 11:30 p.m., a third procession marched towards Barua Parha, and some of the Buddhist houses were torched. Subsequently, Buddhist temples, monasteries, and residences were also torched. Ten Buddhist villages were attacked as well with gunpowder, kerosene, and petrol used for the purpose. The arson continued till 3 a.m. 30 September.\n\nOn 30 September, in the evening, Buddhist monasteries and Hindu temples were vandalized in Ukhia Upazila in Cox's Bazar District. Two more Buddhist monasteries were burnt in Ukhiya early on Monday. At Marichya, the Dipankar Bouddha Bihar was torched while at Khairatipara the Pangyamitra Bouddha Bihar was also torched. By Monday, a total of six monasteries and temples have been damaged in Ukhia. The fanatics also burnt the Matri Mandir Hindu temple in Jelepara. The participants burned religious texts and seized Buddha statues.\n\nThe violence spread to Patiya Upazila in Chittagong District on Sunday. At noon, Buddhist monasteries and Hindu temples were attacked in Patiya. After the midnight past Sunday i.e. on the early morning of 1 October 500 workers of the Western Marine shipping company torched two Buddhist monasteries and one Hindu temple in Patiya. In Kalagaon, the Ratnankur Bouddha Bihar and the Nabarun Sangha Durgabari were torched as was the Abhay Bouddha Bihar in Lakhera.\n\nRohingya refugees from Myanmar are suspected to be involved in the attacks. On Tuesday afternoon, 2 October, three Rohingyas were arrested by the police in Chakaria Upazila of Cox's Bazar District while they were trying to attack a Buddhist monastery in Manikpur.\n\nOn 30 September, an official inquiry committee was constituted and headed by Nurul Islam, the Additional Divisional Commissioner of Chittagong Division. It sat on 1 October and reviewed the reports of the Upazila Nirbahi Officers of the troubled upazilas and the daily newspaper reports.\n\nThe Supreme Court on 12 May 2014 directed Tofail Ahmed, upazila chairman of Naikhangchhari upazila of Bandarban, to surrender before a lower court in four weeks in connection with the attack and vandalisation of a Buddhist temple at Ramu in Cox's Bazar in 2012. Tofail is the prime suspect in the Ramu incident according to a governmental investigation report.\n\nGroups of Buddhist monks and Hindu groups in Burma, India, Sri Lanka, and Thailand demonstrated in response to the anti-Buddhist violence in Bangladesh. In Colombo, Sri Lanka, some protested outside the Bangladeshi embassy and a petition was delivered condemning the attacks.\n\nSome windows of the Bangladeshi embassy in Colombo, Sri Lanka were vandalized before police arrived and dispersed the protest.\n\nOn 6 October, Bangladeshi Prime Minister Sheikh Hasina condemned the anti-Buddhist violence, stated her belief that it was premeditated, and urged restraint over the issue.\n\nOn 8 October the Prime Minister herself visited the affected areas and condemned the incident while promising proper justice.\n\nPrime Minister Sheikh Hasina directed Bangladesh Army to rebuild these temples under a project, titled 'Rebuilding and Renovation of damaged Buddhist Temples', spending Tk 200 million. The Bangladesh Army rebuilt and renovated these Buddhist temples and Bihars in 19 separate places incorporating the traditional designs of the renowned architects from the Buddhist community.\n\nPresident of Bangladesh Abdul Hamid on 10 January 2014 visited several rebuilt Buddhist temples and centers at Ramu upazila of Cox's Bazar.During the visit, president enquired about the wellbeing of local Buddhist community and distributed cheques to the affected members of the community.\n\n"}
{"id": "51847967", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51847967", "title": "After the Deluge (painting)", "text": "After the Deluge (painting)\n\nAfter the Deluge, also known as The Forty-First Day, is a Symbolist oil painting by English artist George Frederic Watts, first exhibited as The Sun in an incomplete form in 1886 and completed in 1891. It shows a scene from the story of Noah's Flood, in which after 40 days of rain Noah opens the window of his Ark to see that the rain has stopped. Watts felt that modern society was in decline owing to a lack of moral values, and he often painted works on the topic of the Flood and its cleansing of the unworthy from the world. The painting takes the form of a stylised seascape, dominated by a bright sunburst breaking through clouds. Although this was a theme Watts had depicted previously in \"The Genius of Greek Poetry\" in 1878, \"After the Deluge\" took a radically different approach. With this painting he intended to evoke a monotheistic God in the act of creation, but avoid depicting the Creator directly.\n\nThe unfinished painting was exhibited in Whitechapel in 1886, under the intentionally simplified title of \"The Sun\". Watts worked on the painting for a further five years, and the completed version was exhibited for the first time at the New Gallery in 1891. Between 1902 and 1906 the painting was exhibited around the United Kingdom, and it is now in the collection of the Watts Gallery in Compton, Surrey. As Watts did not include \"After the Deluge\" in his gift to the nation of what he considered his most significant works, it is not among his better-known paintings. However, it was greatly admired by many of Watts's fellow artists, and has been cited as an influence on numerous other painters who worked in the two decades following its initial exhibition.\n\nGeorge Frederic Watts was born in 1817, the son of a London musical instrument manufacturer. His two brothers died in 1823, and his mother in 1826, giving Watts an obsession with death throughout his life. Watts was apprenticed as a sculptor at the age of 10, and by his mid-teens was proficient enough as an artist to be earning a living as a portrait painter. At the age of 18 he gained admission to the Royal Academy schools, although he disliked their methods and his attendance was intermittent. From 1837, Watts was successful enough to devote himself full-time to painting.\n\nIn 1843 he travelled to Italy where he remained for four years. On his return to London he suffered from melancholia, and painted many notably gloomy works. His skills were widely celebrated, and in 1856 he decided to devote himself to portrait painting. His portraits were extremely highly regarded, and in 1867 he was elected to the Royal Academy, at the time the highest honour available to an artist, although he rapidly became disillusioned with its culture. From 1870 onwards he became widely renowned as a painter of allegorical and mythical subjects; by this time, he was one of the most highly regarded artists in the world. In 1881 he added a glass-roofed gallery to his home at Little Holland House, which was open to the public at weekends, further increasing his fame.\n\n\"After the Deluge\" depicts a scene from the story of Noah's Flood, in which Noah opens the window of the Ark to see that after forty days the rain has ended, but that the floodwaters have not yet subsided. Although his father's strict evangelical Christianity had instilled in Watts a strong dislike of organised religion, he had a deep knowledge of the Bible, and Noah and the Flood were both themes he regularly depicted throughout his career. \n\nWatts had a strong belief in the idea that modern society was prioritising wealth over social values, and that this attitude, which he described as \"the hypocritical veiling of the daily sacrifice made to this deity\", was leading to the decline of society. Hilary Underwood of the University of Surrey writes that Watts likely painted so many works on the theme of Noah as he saw modern parallels with the notion of the cleaning of a degenerate society while preserving those who still adhered to moral standards. Watts chose to depict the moment at which the sun became visible for the first time, after 40 days obscured by clouds.\n\nWatts illustrated the scene with a highly stylised seascape. Above the sea is a bright sunburst, with the light of the sun illuminating the surrounding clouds and bright rays projecting beyond the edges of the canvas.\nWatts's composition echoes J. M. W. Turner's 1843 treatment of the same topic, \"Light and Colour (Goethe's Theory)—The Morning after the Deluge—Moses Writing the Book of Genesis\", in primarily depicting a circle of bright light. However, Turner's painting depicts recognisable human figures, and no work by Turner ever came as close to pure abstract art as Watts's composition.\n\nIn this stage of his career Watts regularly painted images linking awe-inspiring natural events and the will of God. His focus on the sun reflects his longstanding interest in it as a divine symbol; \"The Sacrifice of Noah\", painted 1865, showed Noah sacrificing to the sun in thanks for his family's salvation. This interest in the sun possibly came from Watts's acquaintance Max Müller, who had written extensively on solar theories of mythology (the belief that the religions of Europe, the Middle East and southern Asia were all ultimately derived from Proto-Indo-European worship of the sun). Writing after Watts's death, his widow Mary Seton Watts wrote that:\n\nWatts had previously depicted an orange sun above a flat sea in his 1878 work \"The Genius of Greek Poetry\", but the theme and composition of \"After the Deluge\" was radically different. \"The Genius of Greek Poetry\" was intended to evoke pantheism, with figures representing the forces of nature in human form working and playing, while being watched by the large central figure of the Genius. \"After the Deluge\" was explicitly intended as a monotheistic image, evoking both the magnificence and the redemptive mercy of a single all-powerful God engaging in the act of creation. \n\n\"After the Deluge\" was exhibited in unfinished form in 1886 as \"The Sun\" at St Jude's Church, Whitechapel; Samuel Barnett, vicar of St Jude's, organised annual art exhibitions in east London in an effort to bring beauty into the lives of the poor; he had a close relationship with Watts, and regularly borrowed his works to display them to local residents. Following this exhibition Watts continued to work on the painting for a further five years.\n\nThe completed version of \"After the Deluge\" was exhibited at the New Gallery in 1891. On the occasion of its 1891 exhibition and at a later exhibition in 1897, also at the New Gallery, it was accompanied by an explanatory note (thought to have been written by Watts) explaining the image:\nBetween 1902 and 1906 it was exhibited around the country, being shown in Cork, Edinburgh, Manchester and Dublin, as well as at Watts's own gallery at Little Holland House. In 1904 it was transferred to the newly-opened Watts Gallery in Compton, Surrey, shortly before Watts's death later that year. Two years prior to this, Watts had returned to the theme of creation with \"The Sower of the Systems\", which for the first time in one of his works directly depicted God, and which he described as representing \"a great gesture into which everything that exists is woven\".\n\nAlthough Watts painted landscapes throughout his life, he did not consider such paintings to be major works, and when between 1886 and 1902 he donated what he felt to be his 23 most significant non-portrait works to the nation for public display, no landscape paintings were included. As a consequence of its omission from these gifts to the nation, \"After the Deluge\" is not among his better-known works, although it was greatly admired by many of Watts's fellow artists. Walter Bayes wrote in 1907 that \"After the Deluge\" was \"the sort of landscape that we connect with the name of Mr Watts, a landscape from which all that is coarse and material has been eliminated, and which offers a residuum that is a kind of sublimation of all the most poetic elements in nature\". It has been cited as an influence on many works painted in the two decades following its completion, including paintings of the sun by Maurice Chabas, Giuseppe Pellizza da Volpedo and Edvard Munch. \"After the Deluge\" remains in the collection of the Watts Gallery.\n\n"}
{"id": "55199036", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55199036", "title": "Anthony Alwyn Fernandes Barreto", "text": "Anthony Alwyn Fernandes Barreto\n\nBishop Anthony Alwyn Fernandes Barreto is the serving Bishop of the Roman Catholic Diocese of Sindhudurg.\n\nHe was born in Goa, Daman and Diu on 22 December 1952.\n\nHe was Ordained a Catholic Priest on 13 October 1979 by Bishop Valerian D’Souza. \n\nHe was Appointed Bishop of Roman Catholic Diocese of Sindhudurg on 5 July 2005 and Ordained on 5 Oct 2005 by Pedro López Quintana. Before becoming a bishop he has served as the Dean in the Roman Catholic Diocese of Poona. He chairs the Youth Commission in Western Regions Bishops Conference.\n\n"}
{"id": "16674728", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16674728", "title": "Bahá'í Faith in Cameroon", "text": "Bahá'í Faith in Cameroon\n\nThe Bahá'í Faith in Cameroon was established when the country was separated into two colonies - British and French Cameroon. The first Bahá'í in Cameroon was Enoch Olinga, who had left his homeland of Uganda to bring the religion to British Cameroon in 1953. Meherangiz Munsiff, a young Indian woman who had moved from Britain, arrived in French Cameroon April 1954 - both Olinga and Munsiff were honoured with the title Knight of Bahá'u'lláh. In 2003 Bahá'ís estimated there were 40,000 adherents of the religion in the country. The Association of Religion Data Archives (relying on World Christian Encyclopedia) estimated about 50800 Bahá'ís in 2005.\n\nIn 1953, Shoghi Effendi, the head of the Bahá'í Faith, planned an international teaching plan termed the Ten Year Crusade. This was during a period of wide scale growth in the religion across Sub-Saharan Africa near the end of the period of the Colonisation of Africa. During the plan Ali Nakhjavani and his wife drove by car with two African pioneers from Uganda where the religion was growing very quickly to open new countries to the religion. The first pioneer in the region was Max Kinyerezi October 6 who settled in what was then French Equatorial Africa, and then Enoch Olinga to British Cameroon on October 15. In Limbe (then called Victoria), through the efforts of Olinga, Jacob Tabot Awo converted to the religion becoming the first Cameroonian Bahá'í. During the following year there were many converts to the religion, many of whom were from the Basel Mission system of Protestant Christians. Meherangiz Munsiff, a young Indian woman, arrived in French Cameroon in April 1954 in Douala after helping to found the Bahá'í Faith in Madagascar. A letter from Olinga describes the advancement of the religion into 6 towns and translation work into the Duala language had begun of a pamphlet.\n\nAs the number of Bahá'ís was growing rapidly, Shoghi Effendi asked if members of the religion could pioneer to neighboring areas where there were still no Bahá'ís. On April 21, 1954 a Bahá'í Local Spiritual Assembly was formed and five young Cameroonians left during the Ridván period, each becoming a Knight of Bahá'u'lláh; the various protectorates they arrived in merged into the modern countries of Cameroon, Ghana, and Togo. It was emphasized that western pioneers be self-effacing and focus their efforts not on the colonial leadership but on the native Africans - and that the pioneers must show by actions the sincerity of their sense of service to the Africans in bringing the religion and then the Africans who understand their new religion are to be given freedom to rise up and spread the religion according to their own sensibilities and the pioneers to disperse or step into the background. Enoch Olinga is specifically mentioned as an example of this process unfolding as he arose out of Uganda and repeated the quick growth of the religion. Because of the successive waves of people becoming Knights of Bahá'u'lláh, Enoch Olinga was entitled \"Abd'l-Futuh\", a Persian name meaning \"the father of victories\" by Shoghi Effendi. In very early 1955, Valerie Wilson, an Auxiliary Board member for Africa stationed in Monrovia, Liberia, embarked on what was considered a bold trip for a woman alone by car to travel on a trip across some to visit the Bahá'í groups functioning in the Gold Coast, Togoland and the British Cameroons. In April 1955 British Cameroon had eight assemblies.\n\nIn 1956 a regional Bahá'í National Spiritual Assembly of North West Africa was elected with Olinga as the chairman with its seat in Tunis, comprising areas from the Cameroons north to Tunisia and parts west including Islands like the Canary Islands. Early in 1957 the Bahá'ís in British Cameroon acquired a center and the population was noted at some 300 Bahá'is while the younger community of French Cameroon had between 10 and 20 Bahá'ís and there was a Bahá'í conference on the progress of the religion held in Mutengene, near Tiko. In 1958 the Bahá'ís of Cameroon sent another pioneer, Willie Enang, to Ghana while multiple communities held local conferences on the progress of the religion in their area. Bahá'ís sometimes walked through dense forests to people who had not heard of Jesus Christ. By 1960 the entire Bahá'í population across North West Africa was 3000 and 1800 were in British Cameroon. Limbe, (then called Victoria), British Cameroon, hosted the convention for the election of the regional national assembly for north west Africa in 1960 and there were 45 delegates, including local chiefs and women, as well as Enoch Olinga. Enoch Olinga could not attend the dedication of the Bahá'í House of Worship in his native Uganda because of political turmoil in Cameroon after independence. While over 1500 people and Bahá'ís from many places in Africa went, Olinga preferred to stay in Cameroon to help guide the Bahá'ís through times of civil unrest.\n\nBy 1963 the following cities in Cameroon had Bahá'í communities:\n\n\n\n\nLater October 1963 at a large public meeting in Belgium the ambassador to Belgium from the Republic of Cameroons was a guest at a Bahá'í observance of United Nations Day.\n\nAnd in 1963 the Cameroons were re-organized under the regional national assembly system to be with the West-Central African National Assembly. The second convention was held in Limbe - and that year its members were Stephen Tabe, Sampson Forchnk, Janet Mughrabi, Moses Akombi, Lillie Rosenberg, Oscar Njang, Jawad Mughrabi and Solomon Tanyi and Sherman Rosenberg. The convention of 1966 for the west central regional national assembly was held in Mamfe. Following the death of Shoghi Effendi, the elected Universal House of Justice was head of the religion and began to re-organized the Bahá'í communities of Africa by splitting off national communities to form their own National Assemblies from 1967 though the 1990s. In the presence of Hand of the Cause William Sears in 1967 the National Spiritual Assembly (NSA) of the Bahá'ís of Cameroon was elected for the first time thus splitting the country off from the regional National Assembly established in 1956 and had jurisdiction over neighboring areas of Spanish Guinea, Fernando Po, Cariseo and São Tomé and Príncipe Islands while the rest of the west central regional assembly continued over other countries. In 1967 the Bahá´ís of Cameroon initiated a proclamation project in Spanish territories of Fernando Poo and Rio Muni.\n\nIn December 1971 Cameroon hosted the first regional African youth conference in Yaounde. Bus loads and cars of youth came from Chad and the Central African Republic, including youth visiting from the Philippines, Malaysia, India, Iran, Canada and the United States then in Chad and Cameroon for a period of service to the community came - during the conference two radio interviews were given. Book exhibits were held in 1974 in the University in Yaounde and a classroom in the Pan-African Institute of the Buea which also attracted radio coverage. In 1978 an international Bahá'í youth Conference was held in Cameroon with 380 attendees from some 19 countries.\n\nThough he had recently toured Cameroonian in 1975 in December 1979 a full account of the circumstances under which Knight of Bahá'u'lláh for Cameroon, Hand of the Cause, Enoch Olinga had been murdered Sept. 16th 1977 in Uganda during political and social turmoil. Final answers may never be known why he and most of his family were murdered with confidence. A biography published in 1984 examined his impact in Cameroon and beyond. The first person in Cameroon to join the religion withstood beatings to persevere in his choice. The first woman to become a Bahá'í in Cameroon did so from his impact on her life though she had been an active Christian before - both she and her husband converted and were among the first to move to Togo and then Ghana. Another early Bahá'í, the first of the Bamiliki tribe, moved to what was then French Cameroon to help there. Another early contact joined the religion later but his wife was the first Bahá'í of Nigeria. The researcher again found that there was an emphasis not on rooting out cultural traditions among the peoples but instead focusing on awareness of the religion and awareness of scientific knowledge should not relate to social class. There were accusations of political intrigue of which Olinga was acquitted. It was judged that Olinga was always sincere and never belittled.\n\nIn 1982 the first Bahá'í under the assigned region to Cameroon of Fernando Po joined the religion. Joseph Sheppherd was a pioneer to Cameroon and Equatorial Guinea, circumstances woven into a book he later wrote which presents the Bahá'í Faith in a context of global change (see Bahá'í Faith in fiction) and delves into the dynamics of pioneering as a method to gain understanding of spiritual issues compared to social issues, to struggle with a cultural naivete, which was published in \"Bahá'í News\" in December 1988.\n\nIn 1967 local assemblies began to acquire or build local centers as one of many activities of the community some of which continued into 1968. Informational packets and interviews were granted to major print and radio news outlets and coverage of events continued.\n\nIn October 1967 the Bahá'ís of Cameroon were included in efforts, and multiplied instances of, observances of United Nations Day across Cameroon including talks given by Hand of the Cause Rúhíyyih Khanum. In November Rúhíyyih Khanum dedicated the first school in the Cameroons which was dedicated first to classes studying the religion, (the first classes were held in December 1968.) The convention of 1968 had 45 delegates and an observer from Fernando Po island. The NSA of the country wrote a document, \"Declaration of Loyalty to Government\", possibly dated from 1968, which declares the loyalty of the institution to the government of the country. But in 1969 large regions of Cameroon were still sparely populated, while the first school in eastern, formerly French, Cameroon had its first meeting in spring 1969. In 1977 a mobile school was established run from a van which toured for several months in 1977 visiting villages and farms. In 1978 three regional conferences were held. A conference on the progress of the religion at which it was announced there was an estimated 166 assemblies, 27 of which and established permanent centers, and beyond that some 832 towns and places Bahá'ís lived in Cameroon. A women's regional conference gathered 30 women at the national center and eighty Bahá'í gathered for a regional conference Mankon to discuss the progress of the religion. Meanwhile, two individuals toured Cameroon in January; Hand of the Cause Rahmatu'llah Muhajir and Frenchman Armir Farhang-Imani each of whom who spoke to Bahá'í and public audiences. Rahmatu'llah Muhajir again visited Cameroon as part of a broader trip through west Africa summer 1979. Hand of the Cause Collis Featherstone visited Cameroon in February 1979. In 1980 simultaneous regional Bahá'í schools were held in March in English and French with about 25 people attending each. A follow-up school was held in September at the end of which there was a wedding. In 1980 100 people including several national assembly members attended a national youth conference Yaounde. In 1982 a Bahá'í reached a remote region with pygmies and in three months was able convince 24 people to join the religion and another pioneer was moving to help him. A pair of academic researchers toured west Africa from Switzerland speaking to the public and Bahá'ís in 1985. They offered public talks \"Women and Development\" \"How can woman assume her role in society?\" and \"Women and the Future of Mankind.\" and talks to Bahá'ís on \"Excellence in All Things\" and \"Happiness in Marriage\".\n\nFrom January to March 1970 Rúhíyyih Khanum crossed Africa from east to west visiting many country's communities including Cameroon, meeting with individuals and institutions both Bahá'í and civic. In October 1971 Rúhíyyih Khanum returned from western Africa. She stopped for a time in Mamfe and spoke to the Bahá'ís there and emphasized the role of women in the growth of the religion. From Mamfe she traveled more widely seeing villages and regional chiefs, attending weddings and giving talks at schools. In many places she took note of women in prominent positions in the community and sometimes spoke to about the Bahá'í law of monogamy to contrast with the traditional cultural practice of polygamy and other traditional forms. A prominent meeting was of the regional conference calling for the progress of the religion in the region. She took part in the program of observances of United Nations Day sharing the stage with members of the staff of the Secretary-General of the UN as well as the staff of the Prime Minister of Cameroon. Reaching Buea she met with the Prime Minister and mentioned her wide travels in relative safety with kind assistance of villagers and truck drivers. From there she continued her travels through Douala and Yaounde and in each case also neighboring villages while also making time for radio interviews and at the University of Cameroon before moving on to Zaire.\n\nCameroon was one of the countries Bahá'í organized a series of events in honor of the International Year of the Child, 1979. Among the effort were articles in newspapers, tutorial schools in three cities, a women's conference in Liberia at which Cameroonians attended and radio interviews about the schools. There were women's and children's committees operating at a national level to sustain the teachers of the schools. A Bahá'í consultant traveled western Africa including Cameroon assisting communities in their efforts who was joined by volunteer from Canada who also traveled western Africa including Cameroon. And a Cameroonian woman, a headmistress of a nursery school volunteered to travel Cameroon encouraging projects and schools in the country.\n\nAmong those elected to the NSA was Ursula Samandari, who was elected to the institution in the years of 1972-74 and 1975–80, after being elected to the same institution in North East Africa and the British Isles. She had learned of the Bahá'í Faith from Richard St. Barbe Baker and Hasan M. Balyuzi in 1936. Among the comments at her 2003 funeral were these from the paramount chief of Buea, HRH Samuel L. Endeley:\n\n\"My dear Sister, You lived with us like one of us, you served faithfully and lovingly to win souls into God's redeeming grace. You loved us and our country, Cameroon, and you have demonstrated this in dying here like the good soldier of God you have lived to be. You died with your boots on. We thank God for all you were to us. May your soul rest with the good God, our creator, in perfect peace.\"\n\nAnother member of the NSA who died unexpectedly was Karen Bare who had come from Hawaii in 1969. She was known for offering hospitality and also walking to villages for classes she taught and was elected as Secretary to the NSA for a time. She died in a car accident in 1974 while visiting family in the United States.\n\nBy 2001 the National Spiritual Assembly was registered with the Government of Cameroon as one of the few non-Christian religions. Also in 2003 a project had begun to move the seat of the National Spiritual Assembly from Limbe, in the west, to the central capital, Yaoundé, together with the responsibility to acquire a new National Bahá'í Centres for which the Bahá’í community of the United Kingdom has been asked to help.\n\nOver 600 Bahá’ís and their friends gathered at the Palais des congrès in Yaoundé to celebrate the Golden Jubilee of the founding of the Bahá'í community in Cameroon. Mr. and Mrs. Nakhjavani and other guests of honour, went to Limbe to visit the Bahá'í s of the southwest province, and Buea where they were received by the paramount chief, and travelled to Douala.\n\nIn 2003 the Bahá'í community claimed 40,000 adherents and 58 Local Spiritual Assemblies, (there is another estimate from 2007-8 of more than 130,000 Bahá'is in Cameroon and another of members of the religion in 1744 localities in Cameroon.) However the Association of Religion Data Archives estimated there were some 50799 Bahá'ís in 2005.\n\nSince its inception the religion has had involvement in socio-economic development beginning by giving greater freedom to women, promulgating the promotion of female education as a priority concern, and that involvement was given practical expression by creating schools, agricultural coops, and clinics. The religion entered a new phase of activity when a message of the Universal House of Justice dated 20 October 1983 was released. Bahá'ís were urged to seek out ways, compatible with the Bahá'í teachings, in which they could become involved in the social and economic development of the communities in which they lived. World-wide in 1979 there were 129 officially recognized Bahá'í socio-economic development projects. By 1987, the number of officially recognized development projects had increased to 1482. The Cameroonian community also became involved in a number of initiatives. In 1985 Bahá'ís established a tutorial school among the pygmies and the building infrastructure was to be expanded by the government now that a site had been developed. In 1990 the Cameroonian community held a nationwide campaign on the growth of the religion named in honor of Hand of the Cause Enoch Olinga with teams named after other Hands of the Cause.\n\nThe Cameroonian Bahá'í community has initiated and cooperated with a number of projects attempting to equalize the position of women, a primary principle of the religion. In 1985 a National Women's Committee of the Baha'is of Cameroon produced a statement \"Equal Rights for Women and Men\". The rate at which women participated in December school of 1986 increased. The Bahá'ís of Cameroon cooperated with an initiative of the Bahá'í International Community in cooperation with UNIFEM on a project to effect a change in the social status of women in village communities in eastern Cameroon and other countries. The changes in the community focused on the role of women but aimed strongly at educating the men. According to Tiati Zock, the national coordinator of the project in Cameroon, a survey done in early 1992 among some 45 families in each of the seven villages reported that the men made virtually all of the financial decisions alone. A follow-up survey, taken in 1993, indicated more than 80 percent of the families now make such decisions in consultation between husband and wife. The number of girls being sent to one village school had increased by 82 percent by 1993.\n\nThe Bahá'í community of Cameroon has been involved in forums for wrestling with social issues in Cameroon in both academic and civic forums. In 1987 Cameroonian university students gathered in a conference from multiple tribes along with international students to facilitate an exchange of ideas on issues they all faced in society. This theme evolved in Yaoundé into the theme \"African Youth Facing the Challenges of Modern Society\" in 1988 and \"The Role of Youth in a World in Search of Peace\" in 1989. Annual youth conferences in the northwest evolved and continued through 1990 and echoed many of these themes while also making efforts on other themes. In 2002 the second Cameroon Bahá'í Academy took place at the Regional Bahá'í Centre at Yaoundé with 28 scholars from Buea, Douala, Dschang, Soa, and Yaoundé. The key research paper, \"Cameroonian Tribal and Family Meetings and the Bahá'í Teachings,\" was presented by Chongwain Nkuo, a teacher at the Post and Telecommunication School. It was published in the December 2002 volume of the Cameroon Bahá'í Studies journal. After his presentation there was an evaluation of his work by the members of a jury including David Nkwenti, Head of the Department of Anthropology of the University of Yaoundé. Nkwenti indicated he was going to expand academic interests in studying Bahá'í teachings and anthropological issues. Also in 2002, for United Nations Day on October 24, members of the Buea religious community gathered for an interfaith panel discussion led by the Secretary General of the South West Province; the group included members or spokesmen of the Bahá'í Faith, the Muslim Imam, a representative of the Bishop of the Catholic Diocese, and a representative of the Hindu community. A January 20, 2007 service in Buea at the Bahá'í Centre of Learning commemorated World Religion Day among a similar breadth of representation.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "7148733", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7148733", "title": "Baiterek Tower", "text": "Baiterek Tower\n\nBayterek (Kazakh: Бәйтерек, \"Bäyterek\", \"tall poplar [tree]\") is a monument and observation tower in Astana, the capital city of Kazakhstan. A tourist attraction popular with foreign visitors and native Kazakhs, it is emblematic of the city, which became capital of the country in 1997. The tower is located within on the Nurzhol Boulevard, and is considered a symbol of post-independence Kazakhstan.\n\nThe monument is meant to embody a folktale about a mythical tree of life and a magic bird of happiness: the bird, named Samruk, had laid its egg in the crevice between two branches of a poplar tree.\n\nThe 105m (344.5 ft.) tall structure rises from a wide flat base within a raised plaza. It consists of a narrow cylindrical shaft, surrounded by white branch-like girders that flare out near the top, supporting a gold-mirrored 22 m diameter sphere. The base contains a ticket booth and exhibition space, with two lifts rising within the shaft to the observation deck within the 'egg'. Entrances to the monument are sunk below eye level, reached by stairs from the surrounding plaza. (It's somewhat similar to the 1982 World's Fair Sunsphere in Knoxville, TN, USA.(266 ft.) \n\nThe observation deck is 97 m above ground level, corresponding to 1997, the year that Astana became the nation's capital. It consists of two levels, one with 360 degree views of Astana and beyond, with a second, higher level, reached by a flight of stairs. The top level features a gilded hand print of the right hand of Nursultan Nazarbayev, the first President of the independent Republic of Kazakhstan, mounted in an ornate pedestal. A plaque invites visitors to place a hand in the imprint and make a wish. Alongside the handprint, and also oriented in the direction of the presidential palace, is a wooden sculpture of a globe and 16 radiating segments, commemorating the Congress of Leaders of World and Traditional Religions, held several times in Astana.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "17370187", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17370187", "title": "Benoîte Rencurel", "text": "Benoîte Rencurel\n\nVenerable Benoîte (Benedicta) Rencurel (1647–1718) was a shepherdess from Saint-Étienne-le-Laus, France who is said to have seen apparitions from the Virgin Mary from 1664 through 1718. The apparitions became known as Our Lady of Laus, and the site receives thousands of pilgrim visits a year. On 4 May 2008, Bishop Jean-Michel di Falco of the Diocese of Gap officially recognized the apparitions of the Virgin Mary to Benoite Rencurel at the sanctuary of Laus in the area of Hautes-Alpes, France.\n\nBenoîte Rencurel was born on September 16, 1647, in the little town of Saint-Etienne d'Avançon, in the southern Alps. Her parents lived modestly from the works of their hands. Her father, Guillaume Rencurel, died when Benoîte was seven years old. For the widow and her daughters, his death would lead to material destitution. There was no school in Saint-Etienne d'Avançon, so Benoîte never learned to read or write. At the age of twelve, she found work as a shepherdess.\n\nIn a homily during a Mass at the Marian basilica in the town of Laus, Archbishop Georges Pontier of Marseille, France, said that Rencurel had first seen Mary after being guided by a strange scent near her home in Saint-Etienne d'Avancon in May 1664 and later experienced a vision of Christ bleeding on the village cross.\nDuring the apparitions, the Blessed Mother asked for a church and a house for priests to be built, with the intention of drawing people to greater conversion, especially through the sacrament of penance. The holy site now draws 120,000 pilgrims annually. Numerous physical healings have also been associated with the site, especially when oil from a lamp is applied on the wounds according to the directives the Virgin Mary gave to Rencurel.\n\nShe became a Third Order Dominican and ministered to pilgrims and penitents as a lay Dominican tertiary in Laus. She also urged women to be modest.\n\nAt the shrine in Laus, Benoite Rencurel is said to have had the gift of reading hearts. So many people came to ask her advice that she had to attend mass through a small window in the gallery of the Church to escape the crowds who sought to overwhelm her. She claimed to receive visions of Jesus in His passion from 1669 to 1679. She died on Christmas Day 1718.\n\nThe very modern message of Benoite, Bishop di Falco stated, is \"to live heart to heart with God in prayer, enter deeper into conversion where we are reconciled with ourselves, with others and with God, and live your mission where your life is, in everyday community and joy.\"\n\nShe was bestowed the title \"Servant of God\" by Pope Pius IX. On 3 April 2009, Benedict XVI declared Benoite \"Venerable\".\n\n"}
{"id": "16454727", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16454727", "title": "Bhumihar", "text": "Bhumihar\n\nBhumihars are a Hindu caste mainly found in Bihar (including the Mithila region), the Purvanchal region of Uttar Pradesh, Jharkhand, the Bundelkhand region of Madhya Pradesh, and Nepal.\n\nThe Bhumihars claim Brahmin status, and are also referred to as Bhumihar Brahmin. In Bihar, they are also known as Babhan and they have also been called Bhuinhar.\n\nThe Bhumihars were a prominent land-owning group of eastern India until the 20th century, and controlled nine small princely states and zamindari estates in the region. The Bhumihar community played an important role in the peasant movements of India, and was highly influential in politics of Bihar in the 20th century.\n\nThe word Bhumihar is of relatively recent origin, first used in the records of United Provinces of Agra and Oudh in 1865. It derives from the word \"bhoomi\" (\"land\"), referring to the caste's landowner status. The term \"Bhumihar Brahmin\" was adopted by the community in the late-19th century to emphasise their claim of belonging to the priestly Brahmin class. The alternate name \"Babhan\" has been described as a distorted colloquial term for \"Brahmin\".\n\nAs with many castes in India, there are numerous myths regarding the origins of the Bhumihar community. One legend claims that their ancestors were Brahmins who were set up to take the place of the Kshatriyas slain by Parashurama but some non-Bhumihars have implied that they are the mixed-race offspring of Brahmin men and Kshatriya women. Other legends state that they are the offspring of a union between Rajput men and Brahmin women, or that they derive from Brahman-Buddhists who lost their high position in Hindu society. The Bhumihars themselves dislike these narratives involving \"hybridity\" or \"fallen status\", and claim to be pure Brahmins.\nBy the 16th century, the Bhumihars controlled vast stretches of land in eastern India, particularly in north Bihar. By the late eighteenth century, along with Bihari Rajputs, they had established themselves as the most prominent landholders of the region. Oral legends suggest that along with Muslims and Rajputs, they displaced the Bhar and Chero natives of the region. The weakening of the Mughal suzerainty over the region gave rise to several small Bhumihar states. For example, the revenue contractors for the Mughal province of Awadh declared themselves the Maharaja of Benares. They successfully defended their independence against the Nawab of Awadh in the 1750s and 1760s, before becoming a British dependency. Other princely states and fiefdoms ruled by Bhumihars included Bettia, Tekari, Hathwa, Tamukhi, Sheohar, Mahishadal, Pakur and Maheshpur.\n\nThe distinctive Bhumihar caste identity was largely created through military service. During early days of British expansion in India, a large number of Bhumihars participated in battles and revolts against the East India Company. The Company also recruited Bhumihar sepoys in large numbers.\n\nBhumihars claim to be descendants of Brahmins who held land grants, a theory supported by scholars such as Jogendra Nath Bhattacharya. However, other communities did not give them the ritual status of Brahmins, as most of them were cultivators during the British Raj. Some of the early censuses of British India categorised Bhumihars as Shudras, the lowest of the four varnas. This was considered insulting, especially since several zamindars (land-owning aristocrats) were Bhumihars.\n\nLike many other aspirational castes, the Bhumihars followed the process of sanskritisation to achieve their end. The Bhumihar zamindars and princely state rulers established caste-based associations (\"sabha\"s) to form a community network and to advance their claims to Brahmin status. The \"Pradhan Bhumihar Brahman Sabha\" (\"Chief Assembly of Bhumihar Brahmins\") was established in Patna in 1889. Its objective was \"to improve moral, social and educational reforms of the community and to represent the wants of the community to the government\". The Bhumihar Brahmin Mahasabha (\"great assembly\") was established in 1896. The local \"Bhumihar Brahmin Sabha\"s included the ones at Muzaffarapur (1899), Patna (1899), Gaya (1900) and Saran (1908). These associations filed numerous petitions to be classified as Brahmins in the 1901 census report. Edward Albert Gait, the author of the census report, stated that the Bhumihars did not remain Brahmins, although there was evidence favouring their Brahmin origin. He wrote that the general Hindu public considered them a separate caste, which is \"generally, but not always, regarded as slightly superior\" to the Rajput Kshatriyas. Herbert Hope Risley, the Census Commissioner of British India, believed them to be an offshoot of the Rajputs. Persistent pressure from the Mahasabha, who glorified the history of the community, led to official recognition of the Bhumihars as Brahmins in the later Raj censuses. According to Ashwani Kumar, the Bhumihar claim to Brahmin status means that today \"unlike other upper castes, [they] guard the local caste hierarchy more zealously for they perpetually feel the pressure of being dislocated and discredited in the topsy-turvy world of caste.\"\n\nBesides campaigning for the Brahmin status, the caste associations also played an important role in general welfare of the community. In 1899, the Bhumihar Brahmin Mahasabha, with financial aid from a zamindar, established a college at Muzaffarpur. This was accredited to award degrees in the following year and it was a significant development because education in the area was improving rapidly but students desirous of furthering it had to travel to Bhagalpur, Calcutta or Patna. By 1920, 10 per cent of Bhumihars in Bihar were literate, making them one of the few literate castes; in this achievement, however, they were well behind the Kayasthas (33 per cent) and some other groups. In the first half of the 20th century, the Bhumihars suffered increasing economic hardships due to the steady fragmentation of land rights among heirs and the decline in agricultural prices during the Great Depression. During this period, the Bhumihar associations served as community networks that facilitated access to English education and urban employment. As with the Rajputs, Kayasthas and other high castes of Bihar — and as opposed to the methods used by most lower castes — neither the Mahasabha nor any other formal body exercised power to make and enforce caste rules.\n\nThe Bhumihar Brahmin Mahasabha held annual sessions in different parts of present-day Uttar Pradesh and Bihar. Among its prominent leaders was Sahajanand Saraswati, a leader of the Bhumihar Brahmin Sabha of Patna. During the Balia session of 1914, Sahajanand defended the Brahmin status of the Bhumihars, using quotes from Hindu scriptures to argue that priestly functions do not alone define Brahmins. In 1916, he published a book titled \"Bhumihar Brahmin Parichay\" (\"Introduction to Bhumihar Brahmins\"), which outlined these arguments. He classified Brahmins into two categories — begging (\"yachak\") and non-begging (\"ayachak\") — and stated that the Bhumihars were among the non-begging Brahmins. The Bhumihars of Uttar Pradesh attempted to popularize the term \"Bhumihar Brahmin\", while discarding the term \"Babhan\". However, the term \"Babhan\" remained popular in Bihar. The recognized Brahmins did not favour the Bhumihar attempts to claim an equal status, and even stopped going to Bhumihar homes to perform ceremonies.\n\nBeing traditional landlords and one of the early literate castes, the Bhumihars have been influential in the politics of Bihar since the British days. Noted Bhumihar princely state rulers included Harendra Kishore Singh (Raja of Bettiah) and Vibhuti Narayan Singh (Raja of the Benares).\n\nThe Bhumihars played a pioneering role in organizing peasant, leftist and independence movements since 1910s. In 1914 and 1916, the Bhumihars of Pipra and Turkaulia revolted against indigo cultivation. When Mahatma Gandhi launched satyagraha against indigo cultivation in Motihari in 1917, a number of Bhumihar intellectuals joined the protest. These included Shri Krishna Singh (or Sinha), Ram Dayalu Singh, Ramnandan Mishra, Shilbhadra Yaji, Karyanand Sharma and Sahajanand Saraswati.\n\nWhile a section of Bhumihars were landowners, the vast majority belonged to tenantry. Starting in 1914, two factions emerged in the Bhumihar Mahasabha: the landowner-dominated faction led by Ganesh Dutt, and the tenant-dominated faction led by Sahajanand Saraswati. Sahajanand came from a zamindar family, which had been reduced to tenant status. He attracted a large number of followers who, as tenants, were exploited by the rich landlords. His support for the non-cooperation movement also alarmed the landlords, who were loyal to the British colonial administration. The growing differences between the two factions resulted in a split in the Mahasabha, in 1925-26. Sahajanand established an ashram at Bihta, which started attracting tenants and peasants from other castes as well. When the rich Bhumihar landlords stopped supporting Sahajanand's activities, he declared that caste associations were a means to continue their supremacy. He established a caste-agnostic peasants movement, which later evolved into All India Kisan Sabha. In Bihar, Kisan Sabha, as well as the Communist Party of India (which was heavily inspired by Kisan Sabha), were identified as Bhumihar-dominated organizations for years.\n\nAfter Sahajanand gave up caste politics, Ganesh Dutt emerged as the leader of Bhumihar Mahasabha. He later entered the Legislative Council, and distributed patronage to other members of his caste. This patronage was extended further, when Shri Krishna Singh, a Bhumihar, became the Premier and Chief Minister of Bihar. His tenure saw the rise of a number of influential Bhumihar leaders including Mahesh Prasad Sinha, Krishnakant Singh, LP Shahi, Basawan Sinha, and Kailashpati Mishra. Singh also worked for the welfare of the lower castes. He was the first chief minister in India to abolish the zamindari system. He also led Dalits' entry into Baidyanath Temple.\n\nAfter Shri Krishna Singh's death in 1961, the Bhumihar political hegemony gradually declined. A small number of Bhumihar leaders continued to play a significant role in the state unit of the Indian National Congress. These included Ramashray Prasad Singh, Rajo Singh, Ramjatan Sinha, Shyam Sunder Singh Dhiraj and Maha Chandra Singh. The Congress parliamentarians Ganga Sharan Singh (Sinha) and Shyam Nandan Prasad Mishra also belonged to the Bhumihar community.\n\nThe Bhumihar influence in Bihar politics declined considerably after electoral defeat of Congress in the Bihar Legislative Assembly election, 1990. The backward OBC castes like Yadav, led by Lalu Prasad Yadav, replaced them in the political circles. In the Indian general election, 1999, only three Bhumihars were elected: C. P. Thakur (BJP), Kailashpati Mishra (BJP) and Rajo Singh (Congress). A few Bhumihar leaders also emerged in the political parties dominated by the lower castes. These included Akhilesh Prasad Singh (RJD) and Arun Kumar (Samata Dal; now Rashtriya Lok Samata Party).\n\nAs their power in the electoral politics declined, a number of Bhumihars were attracted to Ranvir Sena, a private militia established in 1994. The group has carried out armed operations against the Naxals in the region, and has been involved in atrocities against the lower castes, such as the Laxmanpur Bathe massacre.\n\nBeing one of the early literate groups of British India, the Bhumihar community produced several prominent literary figures. These include Ramdhari Singh Dinkar, Rahul Sankrityayan, Rambriksh Benipuri and Gopal Singh Nepali. The ancestors of the Nobel Prize-winning author V. S. Naipaul were also Bhumihars.\n\nThe Bhumihars follow a subset of the Brahmin rituals, and claim to be \"tri-karma\" Brahmins. The Christian missionary M. A. Sherring wrote in 1872 that the Bhumihars performed only three of the six prescribed Brahmanical duties: \"They give alms, but do not receive them; they offer sacrifices to their idols, but do not perform the duties and offices of a priesthood; they read the sacred writings, but do not teach them.\"\n\nSome Bhumihars in Muzaffarpur trace their lineage to Husseini Brahmins, and participate in the Muharram processions. The Bhumihars outside Purvanchal-Bihar region may follow the respective local customs and traditions. For example, in Chandipur village of Murshidabad district (West Bengal), a section of Bhumihars became the landlords after death of the British indigo plantation owners. They are now \"thoroughly Bengali\": they worship Kali as their primary deity, and are regarded as Brahmins by others in the village.\n\nBhumihars use the same surnames as those of north Indian Brahmins as well as some surnames in common with Rajputs. In Bihar, the Bhumihars started using the surname Sharma and the title Pandit in the 20th century. Other common traditional Brahmin surnames used by the Bhumihars include Mishra, Dikshit, Tivan, Patak, Pande and Upadhyaya. It is also common for Bhumihars to affix Singh (usually identified with Kshatriyas, especially Rajputs) to their name.\n\n"}
{"id": "5621198", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5621198", "title": "Cathar Perfect", "text": "Cathar Perfect\n\nPerfect (also known as a \"Parfait\" in French or \"Perfectus\" in Latin) was the name given by Bernard of Clairvaux to the ‘leader’ of the medieval Christian religious movement of southern France and northern Italy commonly referred to as the Cathars. The Perfect were not clerics in any way, but were merely members who had become ‘adepts’ in the teaching, and whose role was that of aiding the ordinary members achieve the rewards of belief and practice - men and women could become Perfecti. The term reflects that such a person was seen by the Catholic Church as the \"perfect heretic\". As \"bonhommes\" (their term) \"Perfecti\" were expected to follow a lifestyle of extreme austerity and renunciation of the world which included abstaining from eating meat and avoiding all sexual contact. By that virtue they were recognized as trans-material (i.e. spiritualized) angels by their followers, the Credentes (Croyant in French, Believers in English). \"Perfecti\" were drawn from all walks of life and counted aristocrats, merchants and peasants among their number. Women could also become Perfects; Female Perfects were known as Parfaites or Perfectae.\n\nCatharism itself was a Christian religious movement with dualistic and Gnostic elements that appeared in the Languedoc region of France (Occitania at the time) around the middle of the 12th century. The movement was branded by the Catholic Church as heretical with some authorities denouncing them as not being Christian at all. It existed throughout much of Western Europe (including Aragon and Catalonia in Spain, the Rhineland and Flanders in Northern Europe and Lombardy and Tuscany in Italy), but its focus was in the Languedoc and surrounding areas of what is now southern France. In addition it had links with the similar Christian movement the Bogomils (Friends of God) from the Balkans. The Cathars were ruthlessly suppressed and finally exterminated by the Catholic Church in the 14th century.\n\nThe Cathars believed that there were two principal powers in the Universe. One, God, was entirely good and dwelt in a condition of pure Spirit and Light, while the other, Satan/Lucifer, \"the prince of this world\" was entirely evil and ruled over the world of Matter, hence their rejection of physical pleasures. This dualism they drew from a particular reading of the Gospels, for example \"That which is born of the flesh is flesh; and that which is born of the Spirit is Spirit\" (\"Gospel of John\" 3:6). For the Cathars, Christ was an emissary of the Light sent into this world to lead humanity back to God. Each individual contained within them a shard of the Divine Light, the Angelic Soul which was trapped in a \"garment\" of flesh (the Body) by Lucifer. While confined in this \"garment\" of matter the Soul would forget its origin with God and instead find itself suffering the privations of this world. Cathars held to a Doctrine of Reincarnation, believing that the Soul was doomed to incarnate into this world time and again until through a process of spiritual growth and purification it was able to return to God through Christ and the Holy Spirit. According to the records of the Inquisition, it was believed that this process of death and rebirth towards final Perfection took place over seven lives:\n\nDenying also the Resurrection of the flesh, they invented some unheard of notions, saying, that our souls are those of angelic spirits who, being cast down from heaven by the apostasy of pride, left their glorified bodies in the air; and that these souls themselves, after successively inhabiting seven terrene bodies, of one sort or another, having at length fulfilled their penance, return to those deserted bodies.\n\nMany Perfects chose to become so late in their lives, choosing to abjure their previous existences for their spiritual beliefs. The famous female Perfect Esclarmonde of Foix, for instance, became a 'Bonne Femme' after having reared eight children with her husband, who consented to her choice. Thus the decision to achieve this state was one reached after some experience in the world.\n\nThe Cathar Perfect was believed to have reached the point in his or her cycle of incarnations at which the state of spiritual purity had been achieved through which the Holy Spirit could dwell within them, thus releasing them from the burden of reincarnation and the suffering of this world. Their ministry among the Credentes was to help them in their journey through this life and perhaps enable them to move closer to the spiritual state in which they too could return to God. As Perfects they were seen to be \"equal unto the angels\" and thus already semi-Divine by Cathar believers.\n\nA Cathar Perfect had to undergo a rigorous training of three years before being inducted as a member of the spiritual elite of the religious movement. This took place during a ceremony in which various Scriptural extracts were quoted, including, most particularly, the opening verses of the \"Gospel of John\". The ceremony was completed by a ritual laying on of hands, or Manisola, as the candidate vowed to abjure the world and accept the Holy Spirit. At this point, the Perfecti believed, the Holy Spirit was able to descend and dwell within the new Perfect—hence the austere lifestyle needed to provide a pure dwelling place for the Spirit. Once in this state of housing the Holy Spirit within themselves, the Perfect were believed to have become \"trans-material\" or semi-angelic, not yet released from the confines of the body but containing within them an enhanced spirituality which linked them to God even in this world, as expressed in the \"Gospel of Luke\":\n\nBut they which shall be accounted worthy to obtain that world and the resurrection from the dead, neither marry, nor are given in marriage: Neither can they die any more: for they are equal unto the angels: and are the children of God, being the children of the resurrection.\n\nCathar Perfects travelled the Languedoc in twos, in imitation of Christ's instructions to the Apostles in the \"Gospels\" (such as \"Luke\" 10: 1-12). Male and female Perfects always travelled with partners of the same sex to avoid sexual temptation. To their enemies this drew accusations of homosexuality. On their travels Perfects administered to the Credentes (Believers), the rank and file of Catharism who were not expected to follow the austere lifestyle of the Perfects. They were healers and worked with the sick, sometimes with medicinal remedies, sometimes with laying on of hands. Following the instructions described in the \"Bible\", they walked from place to place and stayed in the houses of Credentes. Services and sacraments were held in people's homes or in places such as fields, forests or caves. \n\nOne of their main roles was to administer the \"Consolamentum\" (Consolation) to the dying—this ensured admittance of the soul of the deceased to heaven and normally required a request from the recipient to a Perfect for the \"Consolamentum\". This meant that many Perfects would not administer the \"Consolamentum\" to those who were beyond reason or sentient speech, as they clearly were not in a position to make the necessary request. One of the conditions of being a Credente was the uttering of the Convanenza, or Covenant, when encountering a Perfect, which involved the request for the Consolamentum should they be dying. This was aimed at enabling the Perfect to bestow the sacrament to those whose illness meant they could not ask for it. As mentioned above, the Cathars believed in a doctrine of reincarnation, interpreting the idea of Eternal Life promised in the \"Bible\" as meaning release from the cycle of successive births in this world, which they believed to be ruled over by Satan. The \"Consolamentum\" was thought to purify the soul through the Holy Spirit before death to enable its ascent to Christ.\n\nPerfects often took great personal risks to visit the dying and faced certain death if caught. During the time of the Cathar suppression when the Church sent a Crusade to destroy them, many Perfects led a hidden and itinerant existence – moving from village to village under cover of darkness, spending the days in barns or woods. Many were burned alive at the stake by the Catholic Church. The last recorded Cathar Perfect was Guillaume Bélibaste who was betrayed by a Credente in the pay of the Church and burned to death in the 14th century.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "28981713", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28981713", "title": "Choir monk", "text": "Choir monk\n\nIn Roman Catholicism the term \"Choir Monk\" is used to distinguish monks who may become priests from the lay brothers.\n"}
{"id": "38530161", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38530161", "title": "Creation mandate", "text": "Creation mandate\n\nIn Reformed Christian ethics, the creation mandates or creation ordinances are the commandments given to Adam and Eve in Genesis 1 and 2. These predate the Mosaic Law and are often thought to apply to all people rather than just Christians. They include the cultural mandate, including marriage and procreation (Gen 1:28), the labour mandate (Gen 2:15), and the Sabbath (Gen 2:3).\n"}
{"id": "56502287", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56502287", "title": "David Kerr (religion scholar)", "text": "David Kerr (religion scholar)\n\nDavid A. Kerr (16 May 1945 – 14 April 2008) was a British scholar of Christian-Muslim relations and world Christianity.\n\nKerr was born and raised in London to Wilfred Kerr, a minister of the United Reformed Church, and Agatha Jean, the daughter of Scottish missionaries in China (1921–27). He conducted his studies in Arabic and Islamic Studies at SOAS, University of London (1963–66), theology at Mansfield College, Oxford (1966–68), and a PhD at St Antony's College, Oxford (1969–73). His doctoral work on church-state relations in Lebanon was supervised by the scholar of Middle Eastern studies, Albert Hourani.\n\nKerr worked for a short time as a journalist with the BBC World Service. He later took up a position teaching Islamic studies at the Selly Oak Colleges (now part of the University of Birmingham) in 1973, founding the Centre for the Study of Islam and Christian-Muslim Relations in 1976. In 1987, he became the director of the Duncan Black Macdonald Center for the Study of Islam and Christian-Muslim studies at Hartford Seminary, before returning to the UK in 1996 to succeed Andrew Walls as professor of Christianity in the Non-Western World and as the director of the Centre for the Study of Christianity in the Non-Western World at the University of Edinburgh. In 2005, he took up a post at the University of Lund as a professor of Missiology and Ecumenics. Shortly upon arriving in Sweden, he was diagnosed with amyotrophic lateral sclerosis and died in 2008.\n\nHis wife, Gun Holmström, was a Finnish student in London when they first met in his father's church. They married in Finland in 1970 and had two children, Simeon and Anna.\n\nKerr was an active administrator of a number of a academic centres around the world. He was also known for his supervision of Masters and PhD students from various parts of Africa and Asia, most of whom English was not their first language. It is said that while he was the director for the Centre for the Study of Christianity in the Non-Western World, he had oversight of over thirty students at a given time. Stephen Goodwin comments:\nDavid belonged to that set of scholars who saw their principle task to be the education, support and development of their students; the student subsequently would be the primary witness of the scholar's work, rather than the contemporary tendency, under the pressure of publications-based funding, to issue forth a stream of books.\nAlthough Kerr never produced an academic monograph himself, he was well-respected for his scholarship as can be seen in the two-volume Festschrift produced in his honour:\n\nThe appendix of his Festschrift lists significant articles in the areas of Christian-Muslim relations (including historical, theological, missiological, and regional studies), Middle Eastern Christianity, and Ecumenics.\n"}
{"id": "10776787", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10776787", "title": "Dhatukatha", "text": "Dhatukatha\n\nThe Dhatukatha (dhātukathā) is a Buddhist scripture, part of the Pali Canon of Theravada Buddhism, where it is included in the Abhidhamma Pitaka.\n\nTranslation: \"Discourse on Elements\", tr U Narada, 1962, Pali Text Society, Bristol\n\nThis book combines ideas from the two preceding abhidhamma books, the Dhammasangani and Vibhanga. It is in the form of questions and answers, grouped into 14 chapters by form. Thus the first chapter asks of each item covered, \"In how many aggregates, bases and elements is it included?\" Later chapters progress to more complex questions like \"From how many aggregates etc. are the dhammas dissociated from the dhammas associated with it dissociated?\"\n"}
{"id": "6101415", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6101415", "title": "Eight of Cups", "text": "Eight of Cups\n\nEight of Cups is a card used in Latin suited playing cards which include tarot decks. It is part of what tarot card readers call the \"Minor Arcana\"\nTarot cards are used throughout much of Europe to play Tarot card games.\n\nIn English-speaking countries, where the games are largely unknown, Tarot cards came to be utilized primarily for divinatory purposes.\n\nThis indicates changes in affections and the breaking of irrelevant links with the past - a turning away from existing relationships and objects of affection with the intent of progressing to that which is new and deeper in meaning. A change or gaining of perspective, this can indicate disillusion with the present, inaugurating the growth of greater future contentment and depth.\n\nThis card usually carries the meaning of disillusionment and abandonment of things which have not been emotionally fulfilling.\n"}
{"id": "46504957", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46504957", "title": "Fangxiangshi", "text": "Fangxiangshi\n\nThe fangxiangshi 方相氏 was a Chinese ritual exorcist, the meaning of whose name is obscure but has been translated as \"one who sees in all (four) directions\", \"he who scrutinizes for evil in many directions\", and \"one who orients unwanted spirits in the direction to which they belong\". Ancient Chinese texts record that he wore a bearskin with four golden eyes, and carried a lance and shield to expel malevolent spirits. His primary duties were orchestrating the seasonal Nuo ritual to chase out disease-causing demons from houses and buildings, and leading a funeral procession to exorcize corpse-eating \"wangliang\" spirits away from a burial chamber. From the Han dynasty through the Tang dynasty (3rd century BCE to 10th century CE), \"fangxiangshi\" were official \"wu\"-shaman specialists in the imperially sanctioned Chinese state religion; after the Tang, they were adapted into popular folk religion and symbolized by wearing a four-eyed mask.\n\nIn the present day, the \"fangxiangshi\" is a masked character in Chinese Nuo opera, and continues as the Japanese equivalent \"hōsōshi\" 方相氏 exorcist in Shinto ceremonies.\n\nThe obscure etymology of \"fāngxiàngshì\" is a subject of disagreement. The name combines three words, with the following Old Chinese pronunciations and meanings (Schuessler 2007: 231, 531, 466):\nScholars agree that \"shi\" < \"*geʔ\" is the Chinese honorific suffix translating \"master; lord\", but construe \"fangxiang\" < *\"paŋsaŋh\" in various ways. Fang 方 is also a common Chinese surname.\n\nThe earliest interpretation was Zheng Xuan's (2nd century CE) \"Zhouli\" commentary (see below). Zheng explains \"fāngxiàng(shì)\" as \"fàngxiǎng\" 放想, substituting \"fàng\" 放 \"put away; banish\" for \"fāng\" 方 and \"xiǎng\" 想 \"think; imagine\" for \"xiàng\" 相. This ambiguous \"fàngxiǎng\" 放想 gloss is translated as \"expellers of formidable things\" (Laufer 1914: 198), \"to give release to one's thinking . . . so as to have an awesome and terrifying appearance\" (Bodde 1975:79), and \"to cause visions to be forthcoming; to conjure up visions\" (Boltz 1979: 431). Boltz says Bodde misunderstood this term because Zheng was reaffirming that \"xiàng\" 相 means not just \"observe; scrutinize\", but \"vision; image; phantasy\", cognate with \"xiǎng\" 想 \"to draw up a mental image; vision\", as well as with \"xiàng\" 象 \"image; representation\". Therefore, Boltz (1979: 431) concludes it was not the appearance of the \"fangxiangshi\" that is important, but \"the visions which he brings forth (and which presumably only he can see) that are crucial. In this sense he should be called the Master of Visions, or Imaginator, or Phantasmagoricist.\"\n\nZheng Xuan's commentary to the \"Zhouli\" description of a \"fangxiang\" striking the four corners of the burial chamber with his lance and expelling the \"fangliang\" (see below) identifies this \"fangliang\" 方良 demon with the \"wangliang\" 罔兩 demon, also known as \"wangxiang\" 罔象. Ying Shao's (c. 195 CE) \"Fengsu Tongyi\" quotes this \"Zhouli\" passage with \"wangxiang\" for \"fangliang\" in explaining the origins of Chinese customs of placing thuja (arborvitae) trees and stone tigers in graveyards.\nOn the tomb a thuja is planted and at the head of the path a stone tiger. In the Chou li, \"On the day of burial the \"fang-hsiang\" chief enters the pit to drive out the \"Wang-hsiang\".\" The \"Wang-hsiang\" likes to eat the liver and brain of the deceased. People cannot constantly have the \"fang-hsiang\" stand by the side of the tomb to bar it. But the \"Wang-hsiang\" fears the tiger and the thuja. Thus the tiger and thuja are placed before the tomb. (tr. Harper 1985: 482)\n\nThe common interpretation of the \"fang\" in \"fangxiang\" is that it denotes the \"sìfāng\" 四方 \"the four quarters/directions; every side/direction\", as ritually symbolized by the four golden eyes on the bearskin signifying the ability of a \"fangxiangshi\" to see in all directions. According to Dallas McCurley (2005:137), the early Chinese believed that \"the forces of rain, wind, flood, and drought often came to the climatically vulnerable Yellow River Valley from the \"sifang\".\" \n\nBoltz's (1979: 431) review of Bodde's (1975) book agrees that taking the fundamental sense of \"fangxiang\" as \"seer\" is generally accurate, but believes that the binomial term \"fangxiang\" < Old Chinese *\"pjwang-sjang\" originated as a dimidiation of the word *\"sjang-\" < Proto-Chinese **\"bsjang-\" \"seer\". Thus meaning \"not so much \"one who sees in all directions\" (though it may well have already been semanticized as that very early) as \"one who conjures up visions, or images, phantasies.\" \n\nMany writers have noted the remarkable phonetic similarities among the names for the ritual \"fangxiangshi\" and the \"fangliang\", \"wangliang\", and \"wangxiang\" demons he exorcised; and some scholars such as Chen Mengjia, Kobayashi Taichirō, and William Boltz have theorized that the \"fangxiangshi\" exorcist was a personification of these demons, and was \"in effect exorcising himself\" (Boltz 1979: 423). In this understanding, the devouring exorcist and devoured creatures were ultimately identical. Boltz (1979: 431) suggests the possibility that the matching names \"fangxiang(shi)\", \"fangliang\", \"wangliang\", and \"wangxiang\" are all derived from the same Proto-Chinese \"**BZjang\" \"see\" etymon, with him as a \"Master of Visions\" or \"Imaginator\" and them as \"visions\" or \"specters\" from the Latin \"spectrum\" \"appearance; apparition\", and to use the same root, the \"fangxiangshi\" \"was in fact exorcising \"images\", or \"visions\", of himself.\"\n\nWhile it is comparatively easier to transliterate Chinese 方相氏 alphabetically than to elucidate it, some scholars have made translations. The first in a Western language may have been French sinologist Édouard Biot's (1881 1:6) \"\"inspecteurs de region\" or \"preservateur universel\"\".\n\nEnglish translations include\nLaufer's interpretation takes \"fang\" to mean \"fangshi\" 方士 \"alchemist; doctor; exorcist\" and \"xiang\" to mean \"rénxiàng\" 人相 \"look at and appraise; practice physiognomy\". Bodde's (1975: 79) translation \"he who scrutinizes for evil spirits in many directions\" is based upon taking \"fang\" as meaning \"sifang\" \"four/all directions\" and taking \"xiang\" in its verbal sense of \"observe, scrutinize\" comparable with \"physiognomize\".\n\nAccording to the Chinese classics, \"fangxiangshi\" originated in the late Eastern Zhou dynasty (771-256 BCE), were officially employed by emperors from the Han dynasty (206 BCE-220 CE) through the Tang dynasty (618-907), and subsequently continued as a private practice up to the present day.\n\nThe earliest detailed description of \"fangxiangshi\" is found in the (c. 3rd century BCE) \"Zhouli\" \"Rites of Zhou\" \"Xiaguan\" 夏官 \"Offices of Summer\" section. \n\nThe first context details the types and numbers of assistants for each official rank, including over 40 to support the \"fangxiangshi\": 4 \"kuángfū\" 狂夫 \"crazy men; mediums\", 8 diviners with 6 subordinates, 2 accountants, 2 scribes, 2 menials, and 20 runners (see von Falkenhausen 1995: 283-285).\n\nThe second \"Zhouli\" context includes the \"fangxiangshi\" under the section describing official duties of the \"nánwū\" 男巫 \"male shaman/medium\":\nAt the annual Great Exorcism (\"nuo\" 儺), when the \"Nanwu\" play a central role: after either presenting offerings or shooting arrows (which of the two remains unclear) at the evil spirits in the four directions, they (according to Zheng Xuan) accompany them outside, away from human habitations\" (tr. von Falkenhausen 1995: 291) \nThe received \"Zhouli\" text has \"zèng\" 贈 \"to present\" but Zheng Xuan mentions an old variant of \"zèng\" 矰 \"to shoot arrows\". \n\nThe subsequent \"fangxiangshi\" context says, \nIn his official function, he wears [over his head] a bearskin having four eyes of gold, and is clad in a black upper garment and a red lower garment. Grasping his lance and brandishing his shield, he leads the many officials to perform the seasonal exorcism (\"Nuo\"), searching through houses and driving out pestilences. ... When there is a great funeral, he goes in advance of the coffin, and upon its arrival at the tomb, when it is being inserted into the burial chamber, he strikes the four corners [of the chamber] with his lance and expels the \"Fang-liang\". (48, tr. Bodde 1975: 78-79) \nZheng Xuan's commentary (Fong 1991: 189-190) glosses \"méng\" 蒙 \"cover; dark; blind; ignorant\" as meaning \"mào\" 冒 \"to cover; see\", that is \"to wear over one's head\"; and explains \"the bear skin worn over one's head to expel the demon of pestilences is [what is known] today as \"qitou\" [魌頭 \"ghost head; demon mask\"].\" As mentioned above (see Etymology), Zheng's commentary identifies the \"fangliang\" 方良 demon with the \"wangliang\" 罔兩 or \"wangxiang\" 罔象 demon.\n\n\"Zhouli\" scholars concur in interpreting the four golden eyes on the bearskin to symbolize the ability of a \"fangxiangshi\" to see simultaneously in all \"sìfāng\" 四方 \"four directions\", as well as striking all \"sìyú\" 四隅 \"four corners\" of the tomb with a lance to scare away the corpse-eating \"wangliang\".\n\nHowever, \"Zhouli\" interpreters differ whether the \"fangxiangshi\" was covered by a bearskin cloak or mask, owing to the ambiguous Classical Chinese phrase 熊皮黃金四目 literally \"bear skin yellow gold four eyes\", and Zheng Xuan's comparison with a \"qitou\" \"demon mask\" (see Childs-Johnson 1995). Translations are frequently a bearskin (\"don the hide of a young bear ornamented with four eyes of gold\", von Falkenhausen 1995: 291), sometimes a bearskin mask (\"four-eyed bear mask\", McCurley 2005:137), or even both (\"covered with a bear's skin and donning a face mask with four golden eyes\", Fukushima 2005: 258).\n\nThe Han polymath Zhang Heng's (2nd century CE) \"Dongjing fu\" poem about the capital Luoyang contemporaneously describes \"fangxiang(shi)\" at the \"Nuo\" ritual.\nAt the end of the year the great no takes place for the purpose of driving off all spectres. The fang-siang carry their spears, wu and hih hold their bundles of reed. Ten thousand lads with red heads and black clothes, with bows of peach wood and arrows of thorny jujube shoot at random all around. Showers of potsherds and pebbles come down like rain, infallibly killing strong spectres as well as the weak. Flaming torches run after these beings, so that a sparkling and streaming glare chases the red plague to all sides; thereupon they destroy them in the imperial moats and break down the suspension bridges (to prevent their return). In this way they attack ch‘i and mei, strike at wild and ferocious beings, cleave sinuous snakes, beat out the brains of fang-liang, imprison keng-fu in the clear and chilly waters, and drown nü-pah in the waters animated by gods. They cut asunder the khwei and the hü, as also the wang-siang; they mutilate the ye-chung, and exterminate the yiu-kwang . The eight spirits (cardinal points of the Universe) thereby quiver; how much more must this be the case with the ki, the yuh and the pih-fang. The land of Tu-shoh, affords protection by peach branches, the effects of which are enhanced by Yuh-lei and Shen-tu, who on the other side, with ropes of rush in their hands, by means of their sharp eyesight spy out the darkest corners, in order to catch the spectres which still remain after the chase. The houses in the capital thus being purged to their most secluded parts, and delivered from everything undesirable, the Yin and the Yang may unite harmoniously, and all beings and things thus be produced in due time. (tr. Groot 1910 6: 978-979) \n\nThe (5th century) \"Book of the Later Han\" also describes \"fangxiangshi\" in the \"Nuo\" exorcism.\nOne day before the sacrifice of the end of the year the great no is celebrated, called expulsion of epidemical disease. The ritual of it is the following — From among the apprentices of the inner Yellow Gate of the Palace, one hundred and twenty of ten, eleven or twelve years are selected to act as 'lads'; they are dressed with red bonnets and black coats, and they carry large hand-drums. The fang-siang shi with four eyes of gold and masked with bearskins, wearing black coats and red skirts, grasp their lances and wield their shields. There are also twelve animals with feathers or hairs, and with horns. These people start their work at the inner Yellow Gate, under command of a Chamberlain in general employ, to expel maleficent spectres from the Forbidden Palace. [Shortly before dawn, the 120 boys and all the court officials gather together and repeat a chant listing 12 demon-eating spirits, \"\"Jiazuo\" 甲作 devours calamities, \"Feiwei\" 胇胃 devours tigers ...\"] These twelve divinities are herewith ordered to chase away evil and misfortune, to scorch your bodies, seize your bones and joints, cut your flesh in pieces, tear out your lungs and bowels. If you do not get quickly away, the stragglers among you will become their food. Now the fang-siang are set to work. Together with those twelve animals (representing these twelve demon-devourers) they lump about screaming, making three tours round about the inner Palace buildings in front and behind, and with their torches they escort the pestilential disease out of the front gate. Outside this gate, swift horsemen take over the torches and leave the Palace through the Marshal’s Gate, on the outside of which they transfer them to horsemen of the fifth army-corps, who thereupon drive the spectres into the Loh river. In every mansion of the official world, men with wooden masks and representing animals may act as leaders of the performers of the no. When the ceremony is finished, keng of peachwood are put up, with Yuh-lei and ropes of reed, after which the performers and the officers in attendance on the throne stop their work. Ropes of reed, lances, and sticks of peach wood are presented by the emperor to the highest ministers, commanders, and special and general feudal rulers. (tr. Groot 1910 6: 976-977) \nThe syntax of this \"fangxiangshi\" description differs from the \"Zhouli\": 方相氏黃金四目蒙熊皮 \"the \"fangxiangshi\" [wears] four golden eyes [and] is covered by a bearskin\".\n\nHan-era \"fangxiangshi\" and \"Nuo\" ritual traditions continued to be followed during the turbulent Southern and Northern dynasties period (420-589), which was an age of civil war and large-scale migration. \n\nThe \"Book of Qi\" history of the Southern Qi dynasty (479-502) records that Nuo rituals were performed on the last day of the year by two groups, each of 120 lads, and twelve animals headed by drums and wind instruments. The gates of the wards and of the city walls were flung open, and the emperor in everyday attire contemplated the no from his throne, in the midst of his offices. With rolling drums the procession entered the Palace through the western-gate, passed through all parts of it in two divisions, even mounting the storeys and towers; the fang-siang and the twelve animals hopped, jumped, and cried, and having passed through the south gate, they spread in six directions till they reached the city-walls. (tr. Groot 1910 6: 978-979) \n\nDuring the Sui dynasty (581-618 CE), the official ritual (tr. Groot 1910 6: 1151) restricted using \"fangxiangshi\" exorcists to funerals of higher-ranking \"shi\" \"scholar-officials\"; officers of the 1st-4th degrees could use \"fangxiang\", but those of the 5th-7th degrees could only use \"qitou\" ghost masks.\n\nThe Tang dynasty (618-907) was a golden age in Chinese history during which the state religion continued \"fangxiangshi\" traditions and further regulated their details.\n\nThe (732) \"Great Tang Ritual Regulations of the Kaiyuan Era\" (713-742, Emperor Xuanzong of Tang) says that in funeral processions (tr. Groot 1910 6: 1151), \"behind the carriage in which the soul-tablet was conveyed, came the carriage of the fang-siang, which, however, was to be replaced by a carriage with an ugly head [\"qitou\"] at funerals of officers of any grade below the fifth.\" This ritual text also gave instructions for celebrating the \"Nuo\" ritual in the provinces.\nFour fang-siang were to be used, with four precentors [\"chàngshuài\" 唱率 \"song leaders\"], and by chiefs of first class governments sixty lads besides; chiefs of governments of the second or the third order might employ forty lads, and in the districts no more than twenty lads might be employed, with one fang-siang and one precentor; besides there might be four drummers and four whip-bearers. Such purification of official mansions and cities was to be accompanied by a sacrifice at the gates to the yin spirits, and concluded by burial of the sacrificial flesh and wine. (tr. Groot 1910 6: 980)\n\nDuan Chengshi's (8th century) \"Miscellaneous Morsels from Youyang\" (tr. Groot 1910 6: 1152-1153) differentiates \"qitou\" 魌頭 \"ghost mask\" types, those with four eyes are named \"fangxiang\" and those with two eyes are named \"qī\" 僛 \"dancers\".\n\nThe \"Da Tang liudian\" book of Tang institutions (tr. Fong 1991: 189) states that a person who performed the task of \"fangxiangshi\" would put on \"a mask with four golden eyes and wear a bear-skin outfit.\" The (1060) \"New Book of Tang\" (tr. Groot 1910 6: 980) notes that for Nuo rituals, \"the lads should be between twelve and sixteen years old, masked, and arranged in four groups of six, and that, besides the whip-bearers, drummers and trumpeters, there should be two wu [shamans] in the procession. The exorcising song was to the very letter that of the Han dynasty.\"\n\nAfter the Tang dynasty, the official Chinese state religion discontinued performances of Nuo rituals led by professional \"fangxiangshi\", and popular folk religion adapted them into local Nuo festivals. \n\nDuring the Song dynasty (960-1279), the tradition of burying protective wood or pottery figures of \"fangxiangshi\" in tombs was changed into figures made of perishable straw or bamboo. The Tang-Song handbook on burial practices, the \"Bicanq jing\" (tr. Fong 1991: 189), says the \"fangxiang\" figures were \"woven in five colors, had four eyes and held tree branches in their hands\". The official ritual of the Song dynasty (tr. Groot 1910 6: 1152) said funerals for officers of the four highest ranks could have one \"fangsiang\" exorcist, and those below in rank could only have a \"qitou\" ghost mask. This text also records that in 970, Emperor Taizu of Song decreed that for funerals in the capital of Kaifeng, \"it was forbidden to all families who had a burial to perform, to occupy themselves with Taoist and Buddhist observances, or to employ a van of men masked as strange men or animals.\" \n\nSimilarly, during Ming dynasty (1368-1644) funeral rituals (tr. Groot 1910 6: 1152) were delimited to four-eyed \"fangxiang\" for officers of the 1st-4th ranks, two-eyed ones for officers of the 5th-7th ranks, and none for lower-ranking officers.\n\nDe Groot (1910 6: 980) describes popular exorcising processions as \"noisy, and even amusing, agreeably breaking the monotony of daily life\" on the last day of the year, with boys wearing ghost-masks of old and young people and numerous gods and spirits, men dressed in costumes of fearsome door gods to scare away evil spirits, and male and female \"wu\"-shamans dancing with drums, all under the guidance of men and women acting as \"fathers and mothers of the Nuo\" ritual.\n\nIn the 1980s, the Chinese government officially recognized Nuo rituals as the folk religion of the Tujia people, who primarily live in the Wuling Mountains of Central China (Li 2006).\n\nLisa Raphals (2009: 61) suggests that the Zhou dynasty ritual \"fangxiangshi\" 方相氏 may have been a predecessor of the Han dynasty professional \"fangshi\" 方士 \"recipe masters\".\n\nBodde (1975: 124) identifies the \"fangxiangshi\" with the demonic \"God of War\" Chiyou, who, according to legend, opposed the Yellow Emperor, citing Zhang Heng's (2nd century CE) \"Xijing fu\" poem that describes Chiyou similarly with how other texts portray the appearance and behavior of the \"fangxiangshi\".\n\nDuring the Heian period (794-1185), the Japanese adopted many Tang dynasty (618-907) Chinese customs, including the \"fangxiangshi\" known as \"hōsōshi\" 方相氏 who would lead a funeral procession and exorcise demons from a burial mound. This practice was amalgamated with traditional Japanese exorcism customs such as the Shinto \"ofuda\" \"talisman with the name of a \"kami\"\". \n\nThe earliest record was the (c. 797) \"Shoku Nihongi\" history (Gras 2004: 45), which mentions a \"hōsōshi\" exorcist officiating at the burial ceremonies for Emperor Shōmu (756), Emperor Kōnin (781), and Emperor Kanmu (806). \n\nThe Kyōgen actor Nomura Mannojō noted that Chinese Nuo rituals 儺 were the 8th-century source for the Japanese \"tsuina\" 追儺 or \"setsubun\" \"ritual to exorcise evil spirits on the last day of winter\", and proposed that supernatural power links the Chinese \"nuo\" performer \"fangxiangshi\" and the Japanese \"gigaku\" masked character \"Chidō\" 治道 \"govern the way\" who leads a (Fukushima 2005: 258).\n\nIn Japanese tradition and art, the \"hōsōshi\" wears a four-eyed mask rather than the original four-eyed bearskin.\n\n"}
{"id": "8880955", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8880955", "title": "Grotto-heavens", "text": "Grotto-heavens\n\nGrotto-heavens () are a type of sacred Taoist site. Grotto-heavens are usually caves, grottoes, mountain hollows, or other underground or semi-underground spaces. Because every community was supposed to have access to at least one grotto, there were many of them all over China. They were first organized systematically in the Tang Dynasty by Sima Chengzhen 司馬承禎 (647–735, see Zuowanglun) and Du Guangting 杜光庭 (850-933). The most sacred of these sites were divided into two types: The ten greater grotto-heavens and the thirty-six lesser grotto-heavens.\n\nThe ten greater grotto-heavens are as follows:\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4214118", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4214118", "title": "Headless Mule", "text": "Headless Mule\n\nThe Headless Mule (, ) is a character in Brazilian folklore. In most tales, it is the ghost of a woman that has been cursed by God for her sins (often said to be as concubinate or fornication with a priest within a church) and condemned to turn into a fire-spewing headless mule, galloping through the countryside from Thursday's sundown to Friday's sunrise. The myth has several variations concerning the sin that turned the cursed woman into the monster: necrophagy, infanticide, sacrilege against the church, fornication, etc.\n\nThe myth is believed to have a medieval origin, and to have been brought to Brazil in the early colonial era (16th century or later).\n\nThe tale is most popular in the states of Goiás, Minas Gerais and Mato Grosso, but is well known throughout the country. Similar myths (the Muladona and the Almamula) occur in the surrounding Hispanic countries.\n\nThe Mule's appearance varies greatly from region to region. Its color is most commonly given as brown, sometimes as black. It has silver (or iron) horseshoes that produce a hideous trotting, louder than any horse is capable of producing.\n\nDespite being headless, the Mule still neighs (usually very loud), and sometimes it moans like a crying woman. It also has a bridle tied to its non-existing mouth, and spews fire through its non-existing nostrils (or, in some versions, from its severed neck).\n\nAccording to most reports, the Mule is condemned to gallop over the territory of seven parishes each night (just as the Brazilian version of the werewolf). By some accounts, its trip begins and ends at the parish where the sin was committed.\n\nTransformation usually occurs at a crossroads. Depending on the source the headless mule may have placeholder head and mane, made of the fire it spews, to which a red-hot iron bridle is tied.\n\nThe curse of the Headless Mule cannot be transmitted (unlike the vampiric curse), because it is acquired as a result of a sin committed wilfully by the accursed woman. \n\nThe transformation can be reversed temporarily by spilling the mule's blood with the prick of a needle or by tying her to a cross. In the first case, transformation will be prevented while the benefactor is alive and lives in the same parish in which his feat was accomplished. In the second case the woman will remain in human form until the sun dawns, but will transform again the next time.\n\nA more stable removal of the curse can be achieved by removing the bridle, in which case the woman will not shape shift again while the benefactor is alive. Tying the bridle back to the woman's mouth will return the curse.\n\nRemoval of the curse is a great relief for the woman because the curse includes many trials, so the grateful woman will usually repent her sins and marry the benefactor. In any case, when the mule changes back to human form the accursed woman will be completely naked, sweated, and smelling of sulfur.\n\nA person who encounters the mule should not cross its path, or the mule will follow the offender and trample him down. Instead, one should either be brave enough to remove the bridle or spill its blood, or else just lay face down on the ground, covering teeth and nails (as well as anything that shines) and the mule will hopefully fail to notice the stranger's presence and trot away (because it does not have good sight).\n\nThere is also a similar folk tale where the curse fell on the sinning priest. In this story, the priest's headless ghost rides through the night on a normal horse, much like the Headless Horseman in Washington Irving's story \"The Legend of Sleepy Hollow\". Indeed, this variant of the myth may well be just a modern import of that 19th century tale.\n\nThe Headless Chelsea or mule may be a personification of the latent paganism of some popular practices echoing in the collective conscience of a people indoctrinated with a simplistic view of Catholicism. It showcases the wild instincts and repressed behaviours that are unacceptable in a Judeo-Christian society. There may be some connection between the Brazilian Headless Mules and folklore about witches in Western Europe.\n\nBeing personified as an animal implies a negative view of the character, which embodies the deepest forces that are part of the human consciousness, namely the libido, whose sexual aspect is traditionally associated with the horse, a symbol of sexual potency and brutal feats. The absence of a head may be a metaphor for the lack of reason, or evidence that the curse involved the perdition of the soul. In either case, without the head to give direction, the body is left under the power of violent passions, immediate impulses and selfish desires.\n\nThe most frequent cause for the curse is a woman's unchristian love for a priest, a vicar of Christ on Earth. This association shows the lengths the Church went to indoctrinate people (both priests and women) about the importance of celibacy.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "32065926", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32065926", "title": "History of New Thought", "text": "History of New Thought\n\nThe history of New Thought started in the 1830s, with roots in the United States and England. As a spiritual movement with roots in metaphysical beliefs, New Thought has helped guide a variety of social changes throughout the 19th, 20th, and into the 21st centuries. Psychologist and philosopher William James labelled New Thought \"the religion of healthy-mindedness\" in his study on religion and science, \"The Varieties of Religious Experience\".\n\nRooted universal science, early New Thought leaders shared a Romantic interest between metaphysics and American Christianity. In addition to New Thought, Christian Science, transcendental movement, theosophy, and other movements were born from similar interests, all in the late 18th and early 19th century. Early New Thought leaders were influenced by Calvinistic belief in the absolute sovereignty of God; John Locke's definition of ideas as anything that existed in the mind that could be expressed through words;and the transcendentalist belief that ideal spirituality \"transcends\" the physical and is realized only through individual intuition, instead of through religion.\n\nBefore anyone practiced New Thought as a set of beliefs there were a few influential figures whose teaching later contributed to the movement. The founder of the 18th century New Church, Emanuel Swedenborg, extended clear influence on many authors' New Thought writings on the Bible. Ralph Waldo Emerson was also influential, as his philosophical movement of transcendentalism is incorporated throughout New Thought. Franz Mesmer's work on hypnosis drove the work of Phineas Quimby, who was influenced in part by hearing a lecture by Charles Poyen.\n\nPhineas P. Quimby is widely recognized as the founder of the New Thought movement. Born in Lebanon, New Hampshire but raised in Belfast, Maine, Quimby learned about the power of the mind to heal through hypnosis when he observed Charles Poyen's work. About 1840, Quimby began to practice hypnotism, or mesmerism as it was called. Through this practice and further study, he developed the view that illness is a matter of the mind. He opened an office for mental healing in Portland in 1859. \n\nCalvinistic Baptist ministerial candidate Julius Dresser and his future wife Annetta G. Seabury came from Waterville, Maine to be healed by Quimby in 1860. They were healed in a short time. In 1882, Dresser and Annetta (his wife by then) began promoting what they called the \"Quimby System of Mental Treatment of Diseases\" in Boston. Their son Horatio figures importantly as New Thought's first historian. Horatio, a popular lecturer, edited \"The Quimby Manuscripts\", which Quimby wrote between 1846 and 1865.\n\nIn 1862 Mary Baker Eddy, originally a Congregational Church member, came to Quimby hoping to be healed from lifelong ill-health. In later years Eddy went on to found Christian Science. Because of this, while not seen as a New Thought denomination, Christian Science is largely regarded by New Thought followers to be heavily driven by New Thought beliefs. Christian Scientists disagree, frequently stating that Eddy was not influenced by Quimby. In 1875 Eddy published \"Science and Health\", thus establishing Christian Science as a denomination.\n\nA former Methodist minister and Swedenborgian minister named Warren Evans came to Quimby for healing in 1863. When he was healed shortly after, he started writing New Thought literature immediately. One source names him as the first person to publish a clear philosophy based on Quimby's practices.\n\nPrentice Mulford was pivotal in the development of New Thought thinking. From his writings in the White Cross Library, including \"Your Forces and How to Use Them\", the terms \"New Thought\" and the \"Law of Attraction\" first came to fruition.\n\nAfter the philosophy of New Thought was established, several individuals and organizations rose to prominence to promote the beliefs. However, there is no consensus on who founded the New Thought movement. Charles Brodie Patterson has been credited. Patterson, a Canadian expatriate who lived in New York City, was labelled the movement's leader when he died in the early 20th century. One of Eddy's early Christian Science students, Ursula Gestefeld, created a philosophy called the \"Science of Being\" after Eddy kicked her out of her church. Science of Being groups eventually formed the Church of New Thought in 1904, which was the first group to refer itself as such. While Julius Dresser, and later his son Horatio, are sometimes credited as founders of New Thought as a named movement, others share this title. Horatio wrote \"A History of the New Thought Movement\", which was published in 1919, and named his father an essential figure in founding the movement. Emma Curtis Hopkins is also considered a founder.\n\nHopkins, called the \"Teacher of Teachers\", was a former student of Mary Baker Eddy. Because of her role in teaching several influential leaders who emerge later in New Thought movement history, she is also given credit as a mother of the movement. Inspired by medieval mystic Joachim of Fiore, Hopkins viewed the Christian Trinity: God the Father, God the Son, and God the Mother-Spirit. She wrote \"High Mysticism\" and \"Scientific Christian Mental Practice\" and founded the Emma Hopkins College of Metaphysical Science, which graduated a large number of women.\n\nNumerous churches and groups developed within the New Thought movement. Emma Curtis Hopkins is called the \"Teacher of Teachers\" because of the number of people she taught who went on to found groups within the New Thought movement. After learning from Hopkins, Annie Rix Militz went on to found the Home of Truth. Another student, Malinda E. Cramer became a co-founder of Divine Science, along with Mrs. Bingham, who later taught Nona L. Brooks, who co-founded Divine Science with Cramer. Charles and Myrtle Fillmore, who went to Hopkins together, went on to found the Unity School of Christianity afterwards. Authors learned from Hopkins, too, including Dr. H. Emilie Cady, writer of the Unity textbook \"Lessons in Truth\"; Ella Wheeler Wilcox, New Thought poet; and Elizabeth Towne. Considerably later, Ernest Holmes, who established Religious Science and founded the United Centers for Spiritual Living.\n\nThe Unity Church is the largest New Thought church today, with thousands of members around the world. It was formed by the Fillmores in 1891. Divine Science was also founded in the late 19th century by Melinda Cramer and Nona Brooks. The United Centers for Spiritual Living was founded by Ernest Holmes in 1927. A similar organization, the Society for Jewish Science,originally conceived by Rabbi Alfred G. Moses in the early 1900s, the movement was institutionalized in 1922 with Rabbi Morris Lichtenstein's. The New Thought movement extends around the world. The largest denomination outside the U.S., Seicho-no-Ie, was founded in 1930 by Masaharu Taniguchi in Japan. Today, it has missions around the world, including the U.S. Smaller churches, including the Home of Truth founded in 1899 in Alameda, California continue successfully, as does the Agape International Spiritual Center, a megachurch led by Rev. Dr. Michael Beckwith in the Los Angeles-area.\n\nA variety of umbrella New Thought organizations have existed, including the International New Thought Alliance, which existed in some form as early as 1899. The Affiliated New Thought Network was formed in 1992 to provide an overarching New Thought organization. Since 1974 the Universal Foundation for Better Living has been a gathering of Christian New Thought congregations around the world. In New York City, New Thought leaders created an umbrella organization called the League for the Larger Life. It lasted from 1916 through the 1950s.\n\nThere have been many New Thought schools. The most famous may be the Unity School of Christianity in Missouri, founded in the early 20th century. The Emerson Theological Institute has operated since 1992. At the turn of the 20th century Horatio Dresser ran an organization called the School of Applied Metaphysics.\n\nPsychiana was a mail-order denomination operated by Frank B. Robinson that taught and spread the word about New Thought through the U.S. Postal Service.\n\n"}
{"id": "11981788", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11981788", "title": "History of Religions (journal)", "text": "History of Religions (journal)\n\nHistory of Religions (\"HR\") is the first academic journal devoted to the study of comparative religious history. The journal was founded in 1961 by Mircea Eliade. It is currently published by the University of Chicago Press. \"HR\" publishes articles that set the standard for the study of religious phenomena from prehistory to modern times, both within particular traditions and across cultural boundaries. In addition to major articles, the journal also publishes review articles and comprehensive book reviews. The journal also occasionally publishes special or theme issues. It is intended for historians of religion, anthropologists, comparative historians, and interdisciplinary scholars of religion.\n\nThe entire contents of the journal are available in full-text, searchable electronic databases. All issues except the most recent two years are available on JSTOR; more recent issues are available on the website of the publisher, University of Chicago Press.\n\n\"HR\" is abstracted and indexed in the Arts and Humanities Citation Index, Bibliography of Asian Studies, EBSCOhost, Scopus, and Web of Science.\n\n"}
{"id": "252386", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=252386", "title": "Hélène Smith", "text": "Hélène Smith\n\nHélène Smith (real name Catherine-Elise Müller, December 9, 1861, Martigny – June 10, 1929, Geneva) was a famous late-19th century French medium. She was known as \"the Muse of Automatic Writing\" by the Surrealists, who viewed Smith as evidence of the power of the surreal, and a symbol of surrealist knowledge. Late in life, Smith claimed to communicate with Martians, and to be a reincarnation of a Hindu princess and Marie Antoinette.\n\nDaughter of a Hungarian merchant, Smith worked as an employee in a commercial house. She discovered spiritualism in 1891 and joined a spiritualist \"development\" circle. According to her fellow believers, she began to show evidence of mediumistic abilities in 1892, and claimed to communicate with Victor Hugo and Cagliostro.\n\nShe became well known in Geneva, and it was there that Flournoy made her acquaintance. Her channeling evolved from the usual raps and table-tipping to somnambulatory trances, of which she remembered nothing. While in this state she experienced clear images of faraway places such as a civilization on Mars, and of her own former lives. She would write out the Martian communications on paper and translate them into French, popularizing automatic writing.\n\nIn 1900, Élise Müller became famous with the publication of \"Des Indes à la Planete Mars\" (\"From India to the Planet Mars\") by Théodore Flournoy, Professor of Psychology at the University of Geneva. The medium and the psychologist remained very close until 1899, when \"Des Indes à la planète Mars\" was first published. The book documented her various series of experiences in terms of romantic cycles: the \"Martian\" cycle, \"Ultramartian\" cycle, \"Hindu\", \"Oriental\", and \"royal\" cycles.\n\nIn 1900, a certain Mrs. Jackson, a rich American spiritualist who was impressed by Müller, offered her a salary which would permit her to quit her job and dedicate herself to pursuing and documenting her experiences. Müller accepted and was able to continue with further cycles. She also began to paint her visions and particular religious images of Christ.\n\nThéodore Flournoy considered her \"cycles\" as the products of what he judged to be infantile imaginings and her Martian language as a mere constructed language. Flournoy concluded that her \"Martian\" language had a strong resemblance to Ms. Smith's native language of French and that her automatic writing was \"romances of the subliminal imagination, derived largely from forgotten sources (for example, books read as a child).\" He invented the term cryptomnesia to describe this phenomenon.\n\nPsychologists Leonard Zusne, Warren H. Jones have written:\n\nThe case was examined in depth by psychologist Donovan Rawcliffe in 1952 who noted that Smith had suffered from a fantasy prone personality and hysterical hallucinations.\n\n"}
{"id": "4208406", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4208406", "title": "Islam in Dominica", "text": "Islam in Dominica\n\nStatistics for Islam in Dominica are not readily available. According to the International Religious Freedom Report in 2005, followers of minority religions and denominations, which range in number from 1.6 percent to 0.2 percent of the population, include Rastafarians, Jehovah's Witnesses, Anglicans, and Muslims. The Muslim community, which consists mostly of foreign students at Ross University School of Medicine, financed the 2004 construction of a mosque in Portsmouth. The islands known Islamic organizations include the Muslim Community of Dominica in Roseau and the Association of Muslim Students at Ross.\n"}
{"id": "5912659", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5912659", "title": "Islam in Luxembourg", "text": "Islam in Luxembourg\n\nMuslims in Luxembourg are a super-minority together with: Protestants, Orthodox Christians, and Jews. Since 2015, Islam is legally recognized in the country.\n\nUp until the 1970s, Luxembourg's Muslim population was small. In the mid-1970s, the Muslim population consisted of around 300 people, rising to over 3,000 by the mid-1990s. Since then, the population has doubled due to asylum-seekers from former Yugoslavia, mostly Bosniaks. The refugees came in waves and, aside from the Bosniaks, these were constituted by Muslims from Albania, Kosovo, Serbia, and Montenegro. Most asylum seekers were initially expected to stay less than a few years. Aside from the refugees, the Muslim population was also increased by workers who migrated after the labour agreement between Luxembourg and Yugoslavia. By 2013, Muslims in Luxembourg were constituted of Bosnians (2,303), Moroccans (616), Albanians (502), Turks (487), Tunisians (374), Algerians (331), and Iranians (322). \n\nThe bulk of the Muslim population lives in urban areas with 70 percent residing in Luxembourg and four other cities. According to the Assembly of the Muslim Community in Luxembourg, it is estimated that about 10,000 to 15,000 Muslims presently reside in the Grand-Duchy. However, it has been illegal for the government to collect statistics on religious beliefs and practices. Furthermore, it is unclear how many are citizens of the Grand-Duchy.\n\nThere are currently six mosques in Luxembourg: Mamer (which is also home to the Islamic Cultural Centre), Esch-sur-Alzette, Wiltz, Diekirch and Luxembourg City. About 1,000 adults attend Friday prayers regularly in these places of worship. There is also an increasing number of converts and this is reflected in the sermons in the mosques, which are delivered in Arabic, Serbo-Croatian, French, and English. \n\n"}
{"id": "2480709", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2480709", "title": "Jason Massey", "text": "Jason Massey\n\nJason Eric Massey (January 7, 1973 – April 3, 2001) was an American murderer who was executed in 2001 for the murders of two teenagers.\n\nMassey was born in January 7, 1973, in Ellis County, Texas. He was neglected and abused by his alcoholic father and his drug addicted mother. By his teens, he was a juvenile delinquent with a lengthy criminal record, mostly for torturing animals and stalking. His mother once committed him to a psychiatric hospital after discovering his journals, in which he detailed his fantasies about rape and murder, his hero worship of Charles Manson, his avowed Satanism, and his strong desire to become a serial killer. Massey was known to decapitate and mutilate dogs, cats, and cows, keeping their skulls as trophies in coolers.\n\nOn July 26, 1993, he viciously murdered two teenagers: 14-year-old Brian King and his 13-year-old stepsister, Christina Benjamin, in his hometown. Benjamin's death had been particularly gruesome; her head, hands and nipples had been cut off, her genitals mutilated, and her intestines removed. King had been shot twice in the head. Massey was quickly connected to the crime by forensic evidence and arrested, shortly after getting out of jail for animal cruelty. In October of the following year, he was found guilty of the murders and sentenced to death. While on death row, he reportedly converted to Christianity.\n\nHe was executed by lethal injection on April 3, 2001. Before his execution, he confessed his crime to the murdered teenagers' family. His crime was documented on an episode of the TV series \"Forensic Files\", called \"Pure Evil\". It is one of the few episodes rated TV-MA.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "35170325", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35170325", "title": "Jinnan Wali Dheri", "text": "Jinnan Wali Dheri\n\nJinnan Wali Dheri (\"the mound of jinns\") is an archaeological site near Taxila, Pakistan. It is the remains of a Buddhist monastic complex dating to the 5th century AD, part of the remains of the Gandhara civilization. It is one of the best-preserved Buddhist monastic complexes in the Taxila valley.\nThe complex includes a main stupa, votive stupas, an enclosure around the main stupa provided with chapels facing towards main stupa, two platforms of rather late period constructed in front of the chapels situated on the both corners of the eastern wall, an upper court votive stupa and a monastery/sangharama on the eastern side of the stupa.\n\nDiscoveries at Jinnan Wali Dera include fragments of murals on the walls of the corridor of a monastery leading to the main stupa. The paintings collapsed when the site was destroyed by the White Huns in the 5th century. \n\nIn 2010, the complex was opened to the public.\n"}
{"id": "59378", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=59378", "title": "John Dryden", "text": "John Dryden\n\nJohn Dryden (; – ) was an English poet, literary critic, translator, and playwright who was made England's first Poet Laureate in 1668.\n\nHe is seen as dominating the literary life of Restoration England to such a point that the period came to be known in literary circles as the Age of Dryden. Walter Scott called him \"Glorious John\".\n\nDryden was born in the village rectory of Aldwincle near Thrapston in Northamptonshire, where his maternal grandfather was rector of All Saints. He was the eldest of fourteen children born to Erasmus Dryden and wife Mary Pickering, paternal grandson of Sir Erasmus Dryden, 1st Baronet (1553–1632), and wife Frances Wilkes, Puritan landowning gentry who supported the Puritan cause and Parliament. He was a second cousin once removed of Jonathan Swift. As a boy Dryden lived in the nearby village of Titchmarsh, where it is likely that he received his first education. In 1644 he was sent to Westminster School as a King's Scholar where his headmaster was Dr. Richard Busby, a charismatic teacher and severe disciplinarian. Having recently been re-founded by Elizabeth I, Westminster during this period embraced a very different religious and political spirit encouraging royalism and high Anglicanism. Whatever Dryden's response to this was, he clearly respected the headmaster and would later send two of his sons to school at Westminster.\n\nAs a humanist public school, Westminster maintained a curriculum which trained pupils in the art of rhetoric and the presentation of arguments for both sides of a given issue. This is a skill which would remain with Dryden and influence his later writing and thinking, as much of it displays these dialectical patterns. The Westminster curriculum included weekly translation assignments which developed Dryden's capacity for assimilation. This was also to be exhibited in his later works. His years at Westminster were not uneventful, and his first published poem, an elegy with a strong royalist feel on the death of his schoolmate Henry, Lord Hastings from smallpox, alludes to the execution of King Charles I, which took place on 30 January 1649, very near the school where Dr. Busby had first prayed for the King and then locked in his schoolboys to prevent their attending the spectacle.\n\nIn 1650 Dryden went up to Trinity College, Cambridge. Here he would have experienced a return to the religious and political ethos of his childhood: the Master of Trinity was a Puritan preacher by the name of Thomas Hill who had been a rector in Dryden's home village. Though there is little specific information on Dryden's undergraduate years, he would most certainly have followed the standard curriculum of classics, rhetoric, and mathematics. In 1654 he obtained his BA, graduating top of the list for Trinity that year. In June of the same year Dryden's father died, leaving him some land which generated a little income, but not enough to live on.\n\nReturning to London during the Protectorate, Dryden obtained work with Cromwell's Secretary of State, John Thurloe. This appointment may have been the result of influence exercised on his behalf by his cousin the Lord Chamberlain, Sir Gilbert Pickering. At Cromwell's funeral on 23 November 1658 Dryden processed with the Puritan poets John Milton and Andrew Marvell. Shortly thereafter he published his first important poem, \"Heroic Stanzas\" (1658), a eulogy on Cromwell's death which is cautious and prudent in its emotional display. In 1660 Dryden celebrated the Restoration of the monarchy and the return of Charles II with \"Astraea Redux\", an authentic royalist panegyric. In this work the interregnum is illustrated as a time of anarchy, and Charles is seen as the restorer of peace and order.\n\nAfter the Restoration, as Dryden quickly established himself as the leading poet and literary critic of his day, he transferred his allegiances to the new government. Along with \"Astraea Redux\", Dryden welcomed the new regime with two more panegyrics: \"To His Sacred Majesty: A Panegyric on his Coronation\" (1662) and \"To My Lord Chancellor\" (1662). These poems suggest that Dryden was looking to court a possible patron, but he was to instead make a living in writing for publishers, not for the aristocracy, and thus ultimately for the reading public. These, and his other nondramatic poems, are occasional—that is, they celebrate public events. Thus they are written for the nation rather than the self, and the Poet Laureate (as he would later become) is obliged to write a certain number of these per annum. In November 1662 Dryden was proposed for membership in the Royal Society, and he was elected an early fellow. However, Dryden was inactive in Society affairs and in 1666 was expelled for non-payment of his dues.\nOn 1 December 1663 Dryden married the royalist sister of Sir Robert Howard—Lady Elizabeth. Dryden's works occasionally contain outbursts against the married state but also celebrations of the same. Thus, little is known of the intimate side of his marriage. Lady Elizabeth bore three sons and outlived her husband.\n\nWith the reopening of the theatres in 1660 after the Puritan ban, Dryden began writing plays. His first play \"The Wild Gallant\" appeared in 1663, and was not successful, but was still promising, and from 1668 on he was contracted to produce three plays a year for the King's Company in which he became a shareholder. During the 1660s and 1670s, theatrical writing was his main source of income. He led the way in Restoration comedy, his best-known work being \"Marriage à la Mode\" (1673), as well as heroic tragedy and regular tragedy, in which his greatest success was \"All for Love\" (1678). Dryden was never satisfied with his theatrical writings and frequently suggested that his talents were wasted on unworthy audiences. He thus was making a bid for poetic fame off-stage. In 1667, around the same time his dramatic career began, he published \"Annus Mirabilis\", a lengthy historical poem which described the English defeat of the Dutch naval fleet and the Great Fire of London in 1666. It was a modern epic in pentameter quatrains that established him as the preeminent poet of his generation, and was crucial in his attaining the posts of Poet Laureate (1668) and historiographer royal (1670).\n\nWhen the Great Plague of London closed the theatres in 1665, Dryden retreated to Wiltshire where he wrote \"Of Dramatick Poesie\" (1668), arguably the best of his unsystematic prefaces and essays. Dryden constantly defended his own literary practice, and \"Of Dramatick Poesie\", the longest of his critical works, takes the form of a dialogue in which four characters—each based on a prominent contemporary, with Dryden himself as 'Neander'—debate the merits of classical, French and English drama. The greater part of his critical works introduce problems which he is eager to discuss, and show the work of a writer of independent mind who feels strongly about his own ideas, ideas which demonstrate the breadth of his reading. He felt strongly about the relation of the poet to tradition and the creative process, and his best heroic play \"Aureng-zebe\" (1675) has a prologue which denounces the use of rhyme in serious drama. His play \"All for Love\" (1678) was written in blank verse, and was to immediately follow \"Aureng-Zebe\". On 18 December 1679 he was attacked in Rose Alley near his home in Covent Garden by thugs hired by John Wilmot, 2nd Earl of Rochester, with whom he had a long-standing conflict.\n\nDryden's greatest achievements were in satiric verse: the mock-heroic \"Mac Flecknoe\", a more personal product of his laureate years, was a lampoon circulated in manuscript and an attack on the playwright Thomas Shadwell. Dryden's main goal in the work is to \"satirize Shadwell, ostensibly for his offenses against literature but more immediately we may suppose for his habitual badgering of him on the stage and in print.\" It is not a belittling form of satire, but rather one which makes his object great in ways which are unexpected, transferring the ridiculous into poetry. This line of satire continued with \"Absalom and Achitophel\" (1681) and \"The Medal\" (1682). His other major works from this period are the religious poems \"Religio Laici\" (1682), written from the position of a member of the Church of England; his 1683 edition of \"Plutarch's Lives Translated From the Greek by Several Hands\" in which he introduced the word biography to English readers; and \"The Hind and the Panther,\" (1687) which celebrates his conversion to Roman Catholicism.\nHe wrote \"Britannia Rediviva\" celebrating the birth of a son and heir to the Catholic King and Queen on 10 June 1688. When later in the same year James II was deposed in the Glorious Revolution, Dryden's refusal to take the oaths of allegiance to the new monarchs, William and Mary, left him out of favour at court. Thomas Shadwell succeeded him as Poet Laureate, and he was forced to give up his public offices and live by the proceeds of his pen. Dryden translated works by Horace, Juvenal, Ovid, Lucretius, and Theocritus, a task which he found far more satisfying than writing for the stage. In 1694 he began work on what would be his most ambitious and defining work as translator, \"The Works of Virgil\" (1697), which was published by subscription. The publication of the translation of Virgil was a national event and brought Dryden the sum of £1,400. His final translations appeared in the volume \"Fables Ancient and Modern\" (1700), a series of episodes from Homer, Ovid, and Boccaccio, as well as modernised adaptations from Geoffrey Chaucer interspersed with Dryden's own poems. As a translator, he made great literary works in the older languages available to readers of English.\n\nDryden died on 12 May 1700, and was initially buried in St. Anne's cemetery in Soho, before being exhumed and reburied in Westminster Abbey ten days later. He was the subject of poetic eulogies, such as \"Luctus Brittannici: or the Tears of the British Muses; for the Death of John Dryden, Esq.\" (London, 1700), and \"The Nine Muses\". A Royal Society of Arts blue plaque commemorates Dryden at 43 Gerrard Street in London's Chinatown. He lived at 137 Long Acre from 1682 to 1686 and at 43 Gerrard Street from 1686 until his death.\n\nIn his will, he left The George Inn at Northampton to Trustees, to form a school for the children of the poor of the town. This became John Dryden's School, later The Orange School.\n\nDryden was the dominant literary figure and influence of his age. He established the heroic couplet as a standard form of English poetry by writing successful satires, religious pieces, fables, epigrams, compliments, prologues, and plays with it; he also introduced the alexandrine and triplet into the form. In his poems, translations, and criticism, he established a poetic diction appropriate to the heroic couplet—Auden referred to him as \"the master of the middle style\"—that was a model for his contemporaries and for much of the 18th century. The considerable loss felt by the English literary community at his death was evident in the elegies written about him. Dryden's heroic couplet became the dominant poetic form of the 18th century. Alexander Pope was heavily influenced by Dryden and often borrowed from him; other writers were equally influenced by Dryden and Pope. Pope famously praised Dryden's versification in his imitation of Horace's Epistle II.i: \"Dryden taught to join / The varying pause, the full resounding line, / The long majestic march, and energy divine.\" Samuel Johnson summed up the general attitude with his remark that \"the veneration with which his name is pronounced by every cultivator of English literature, is paid to him as he refined the language, improved the sentiments, and tuned the numbers of English poetry.\" His poems were very widely read, and are often quoted, for instance, in \"Tom Jones\" and Johnson's essays.\n\nJohnson also noted, however, that \"He is, therefore, with all his variety of excellence, not often pathetic; and had so little sensibility of the power of effusions purely natural, that he did not esteem them in others. Simplicity gave him no pleasure.\" Readers in the first half of the 18th century did not mind this too much, but later generations considered Dryden's absence of sensibility a fault.\n\nOne of the first attacks on Dryden's reputation was by Wordsworth, who complained that Dryden's descriptions of natural objects in his translations from Virgil were much inferior to the originals. However, several of Wordsworth's contemporaries, such as George Crabbe, Lord Byron, and Walter Scott (who edited Dryden's works), were still keen admirers of Dryden. Besides, Wordsworth did admire many of Dryden's poems, and his famous \"Intimations of Immortality\" ode owes something stylistically to Dryden's \"Alexander's Feast\". John Keats admired the \"Fables\", and imitated them in his poem \"Lamia\". Later 19th-century writers had little use for verse satire, Pope, or Dryden; Matthew Arnold famously dismissed them as \"classics of our prose.\" He did have a committed admirer in George Saintsbury, and was a prominent figure in quotation books such as Bartlett's, but the next major poet to take an interest in Dryden was T. S. Eliot, who wrote that he was \"the ancestor of nearly all that is best in the poetry of the eighteenth century\", and that \"we cannot fully enjoy or rightly estimate a hundred years of English poetry unless we fully enjoy Dryden.\" However, in the same essay, Eliot accused Dryden of having a \"commonplace mind\". Critical interest in Dryden has increased recently, but, as a relatively straightforward writer (William Empson, another modern admirer of Dryden, compared his \"flat\" use of language with Donne's interest in the \"echoes and recesses of words\"), his work has not occasioned as much interest as Andrew Marvell's, John Donne's or Pope's.\n\nDryden is believed to be the first person to posit that English sentences should not end in prepositions because Latin sentences cannot end in prepositions. Dryden created the proscription against preposition stranding in 1672 when he objected to Ben Jonson's 1611 phrase, \"the bodies that those souls were frighted from\", though he did not provide the rationale for his preference. Dryden often translated his writing into Latin, to check whether his writing was concise and elegant, Latin being considered an elegant and long-lived language with which to compare; then Dryden translated his writing back to English according to Latin-grammar usage. As Latin does not have sentences ending in prepositions, Dryden may have applied Latin grammar to English, thus forming the rule of no sentence-ending prepositions, subsequently adopted by other writers.\n\nThe phrase \"blaze of glory\" is believed to have originated in Dryden's 1686 poem \"The Hind and the Panther\", referring to the throne of God as a \"blaze of glory that forbids the sight\".\n\nWhat Dryden achieved in his poetry was neither the emotional excitement of the early nineteenth-century romantics nor the intellectual complexities of the metaphysicals. His subject matter was often factual, and he aimed at expressing his thoughts in the most precise and concentrated manner. Although he uses formal structures such as heroic couplets, he tried to recreate the natural rhythm of speech, and he knew that different subjects need different kinds of verse. In his preface to \"Religio Laici\" he says that \"the expressions of a poem designed purely for instruction ought to be plain and natural, yet majestic... The florid, elevated and figurative way is for the passions; for (these) are begotten in the soul by showing the objects out of their true proportion... A man is to be cheated into passion, but to be reasoned into truth.\"\n\nWhile Dryden had many admirers, he also had his share of critics, Mark Van Doren among them. Van Doren complained that in translating Virgil's \"Aeneid\", Dryden had added \"a fund of phrases with which he could expand any passage that seemed to him curt\". Dryden did not feel such expansion was a fault, arguing that as Latin is a naturally concise language it cannot be duly represented by a comparable number of words in English. \"He...recognized that Virgil 'had the advantage of a language wherein much may be comprehended in a little space' (5:329–30). The 'way to please the best Judges...is not to Translate a Poet literally; and Virgil least of any other' (5:329)\".\n\nFor example, take lines 789–795 of Book 2 when Aeneas sees and receives a message from the ghost of his wife, Creusa.\n\n<poem>\"iamque vale et nati serva communis amorem.\"\n\"haec ubi dicta dedit, lacrimantem et multa volentem\"\n\"dicere deseruit, tenuisque recessit in auras.\"\n\"ter conatus ibi collo dare bracchia circum;\"\n\"ter frustra comprensa manus effugit imago,\"\n\"par levibus ventis volucrique simillima somno.\"\n\"sic demum socios consumpta nocte reviso\"</poem>\n\nDryden translates it like this:\n\n<poem>I trust our common issue to your care.'\nShe said, and gliding pass'd unseen in air.\nI strove to speak: but horror tied my tongue;\nAnd thrice about her neck my arms I flung,\nAnd, thrice deceiv'd, on vain embraces hung.\nLight as an empty dream at break of day,\nOr as a blast of wind, she rush'd away.\nThus having pass'd the night in fruitless pain,\nI to my longing friends return again</poem>\n\nDryden's translation is based on presumed authorial intent and smooth English. In line 790 the literal translation of \"haec ubi dicta dedit\" is \"when she gave these words.\" But \"she said\" gets the point across, uses half the words, and makes for better English. A few lines later, with \"ter conatus ibi collo dare bracchia circum; ter frustra comprensa manus effugit imago\", he alters the literal translation \"Thrice trying to give arms around her neck; thrice the image grasped in vain fled the hands\", in order to fit it into meter and the emotion of the scene.\n\nIn his own words,\n\nThe way I have taken, is not so streight as Metaphrase, nor so loose as Paraphrase: Some things too I have omitted, and sometimes added of my own. Yet the omissions I hope, are but of Circumstances, and such as wou'd have no grace in English; and the Addition, I also hope, are easily deduc'd from Virgil's Sense. They will seem (at least I have the Vanity to think so), not struck into him, but growing out of him. (5:529)\n\nIn a similar vein, Dryden writes in his Preface to the translation anthology \"Sylvae\":\n\nWhere I have taken away some of [the original authors'] Expressions, and cut them shorter, it may possibly be on this consideration, that what was beautiful in the Greek or Latin, would not appear so shining in the English; and where I have enlarg’d them, I desire the false Criticks would not always think that those thoughts are wholly mine, but that either they are secretly in the Poet, or may be fairly deduc’d from him; or at least, if both those considerations should fail, that my own is of a piece with his, and that if he were living, and an Englishman, they are such as he wou’d probably have written.\n\nOn 1 December 1663 Dryden married Lady Elizabeth Howard (died 1714). The marriage was at St. Swithin's, London, and the consent of the parents is noted on the licence, though Lady Elizabeth was then about twenty-five. She was the object of some scandals, well or ill founded; it was said that Dryden had been bullied into the marriage by her brothers. A small estate in Wiltshire was settled upon them by her father. The lady's intellect and temper were apparently not good; her husband was treated as an inferior by those of her social status. Both Dryden and his wife were warmly attached to their children. They had three sons: Charles (1666–1704), John (1668–1701), and Erasmus Henry (1669–1710). Lady Elizabeth Dryden survived her husband, but went insane soon after his death. Though some have historically claimed to be from the lineage of John Dryden, his three children had no children themselves.\n\nDates given are (acted/published) and unless otherwise noted are taken from Scott's edition.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1172131", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1172131", "title": "List of founders of religious traditions", "text": "List of founders of religious traditions\n\nThis article lists historical figures credited with founding religions or religious philosophies or people who first codified older known religious traditions. It also lists those who have founded a specific major denomination within a larger religion.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2840772", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2840772", "title": "List of later stave churches and replicas", "text": "List of later stave churches and replicas\n\nList of later stave churches and replicas\nDenmark\n\nSweden\n\nIceland\n\nUnited States\nNorway\n\nGermany\n\nNew Zealand\n\nSee also: Atlas Obscura \"Stave Churches Are All Wood, Dragons, and Beauty\"\n"}
{"id": "50221700", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50221700", "title": "List of mosques in Spain", "text": "List of mosques in Spain\n\nThis is a list of mosques in Spain. It lists Muslim mosques (Arabic: Masjid, Spanish: Mezquita) and Islamic centers in Spain. It list only open, functioning mosques that allow Muslims to perform Islamic prayers (Salah). For a list of old historical mosques built during Al-Andalus (Muslim Spain) period, please see the list of former mosques in Spain.\n\nThe exact number of mosques in Spain vary according to different sources and estimates. As of May 2018, El Observatorio del Pluralismo Religioso en España (Observatory of Religious Pluralism in Spain) listed 1588 places of Muslim worship on their website. According to a former 2010 estimate, there were 13 large mosques and more than 1000 smaller mosques and Islamic prayer rooms scattered across the country serving an estimated Muslim population of 1.5 million. The majority of them were located in Catalonia in northeastern Spain. \n\nThe number of mosques has been increasing with the growth of Islam in Spain, resulting mainly from immigration from Muslim countries, and increasing number of Muslim tourists visiting the country. However finding a mosque or prayer facility is still difficult in many places outside major cities and towns.\n\nThis is a list of open, functioning mosques only. It list some, but by no means all of the active mosques in Spain. But it does not include historic former mosques in Spain like the Mosque–Cathedral of Córdoba that do not allow Islamic prayers on their premises.\n\n"}
{"id": "2319776", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2319776", "title": "Lunar effect", "text": "Lunar effect\n\nThe term lunar effect refers to real or imaginary correlations between specific stages of the roughly 29.5-day lunar cycle and behavior and physiological changes in living beings on Earth, including humans. In some cases the purported effect may depend on external cues, such as the amount of moonlight. In other cases, such as the approximately monthly cycle of menstruation in humans (but not other mammals), the coincidence in timing reflects no known lunar influence.\n\nA considerable number of studies have examined the effect on humans. By the late 1980s, there were at least 40 published studies on the purported lunar-lunacy connection, and at least 20 published studies on the purported lunar-birthrate connection. This has allowed several extensive literature reviews and meta-analyses to be produced, which have found no correlation between the lunar cycle and human biology or behavior.\n\nExamples of the belief have been found in ancient Assyrian/Babylonian writing.\n\nClaims of a lunar connection have appeared in the following contexts:\n\nIt is widely believed that the Moon has a relationship with fertility due to the corresponding human menstrual cycle, which averages 28 days. However, no connection between lunar rhythms and menstrual onset has been conclusively shown to exist, and the similarity in length between the two cycles is most likely coincidental.\n\nThree studies carried out between 1959 and 1973 reported a 1 percent increase in births in New York following a full Moon. However, multiple studies have found no connection between birth rate and lunar phases. A 1957 analysis of 9,551 births in Danville, PA, found no correlation between birth rate and the phase of the Moon. Records of 11,961 live births and 8,142 natural births (not induced by drugs or cesarean section) over a 4-year period (1974-1978) at the UCLA hospital did not correlate in any way with the cycle of lunar phases. Analysis of 3,706 spontaneous births (excluding births resulting from induced labor) in 1994 showed no correlation with lunar phase. The distribution of 167,956 spontaneous vaginal deliveries, at 37 to 40 weeks gestation, in Phoenix, AZ, between 1995 and 2000, showed no relationship with lunar phase. Analysis of 564,039 births (1997 to 2001) in North Carolina showed no predictable influence of the lunar cycle on deliveries or complications. Analysis of 6,725 deliveries (2000 to 2006) in Hannover revealed no significant correlation of birth rate to lunar phases. A 2001 analysis of 70,000,000 birth records from the National Center for Health Statistics revealed no correlation between birth rate and lunar phase. An extensive review of 21 studies from 7 different countries showed that the majority of studies reported no relationship to lunar phase, and that the positive studies were inconsistent with each other. A review of 6 additional studies from 5 different countries similarly showed no evidence of relationship between birth rate and lunar phase.\n\nIt is sometimes claimed that surgeons used to refuse to operate during the full Moon because of the increased risk of death of the patient through blood loss. One team, in Barcelona, Spain, reported a weak correlation between lunar phase and hospital admissions due to gastrointestinal bleeding, but only when comparing full Moon days to all non-full Moon days lumped together. This methodology has been criticized, and the statistical significance of the results disappears if one compares day 29 of the lunar cycle (full Moon) to days 9, 12, 13, or 27 of the lunar cycle, which all have an almost equal number of hospital admissions. The Spanish team acknowledged that the wide variation in the number of admissions throughout the lunar cycle limited the interpretation of the results.\n\nIn October 2009, British politician David Tredinnick asserted that during a full Moon \"[s]urgeons will not operate because blood clotting is not effective and the police have to put more people on the street.\". A spokesman for the Royal College of Surgeons said they would \"laugh their heads off\" at the suggestion they could not operate on the full Moon.\n\nTwo studies found evidence that those with mental disorders i.e. Schizophrenia generally exhibit 1.8% of increased violent or aggressive episodes during the full Moon, but a more recent study found no such correlation to that of nonschizophrenic human beings. An analysis of mental-health data found a significant effect of Moon phases, but only on schizophrenic patients. Such effects are not necessarily related directly to the appearance of the Moon. \n\nA study into epilepsy found a significant negative correlation between the mean number of seizures per day and the fraction of the Moon that is illuminated, but this correlation disappeared when the local clarity of the night sky was controlled for, suggesting that it is the brightness of the night sky, and not the lunar phase per se, that influences the occurrence of epileptic seizures with advanced photosensitive epilepsy.\n\nSenior police officers in Brighton, UK announced in June 2007 that they were planning to deploy more officers over the summer to counter trouble they believe is linked to the lunar cycle. This followed research by the Sussex Police force that concluded there was a rise in violent crime when the Moon was full. A spokeswoman for the police force said \"research carried out by us has shown a correlation between violent incidents and full moons\". A police officer responsible for the research told the BBC that \"From my experience of 19 years of being a police officer, undoubtedly on full moons we do seem to get people with sort of strange behavior - more fractious, argumentative.\"\n\nPolice in Ohio and Kentucky have blamed temporary rises in crime on the full Moon. In January 2008, New Zealand's Justice Minister Annette King suggested that a spate of stabbings in the country could have been caused by the lunar cycle.\n\nA reported correlation between Moon phase and the number of homicides in Dade County was found, through later analysis, not to be supported by the data and to have been the result of inappropriate and misleading statistical procedures.\n\nA study of 13,029 motorcyclists killed in nighttime crashes found that there were 5.3% more fatalities on nights with a full moon compared to other nights. The authors speculate that the increase might be due to visual distractions created by the moon, especially when it is near the horizon and appears abruptly between trees, around turns, etc.\n\nIt was suggested, by Guy Cramer, president of the aerospace science company United Dynamics Corp, that the full Moon might have influenced voter behavior in the US 2000 Presidential Election.\n\nSeveral studies have argued that the stock market’s average returns are much higher during the half of the month closest to the new moon than the half closest to the full moon. The reasons for this have not been studied, but the authors suggest this may be due to lunar influences on mood. Another study has found contradictory results and questioned these claims.\nA meta-analysis of thirty-seven studies that examined relationships between the Moon's four phases and human behavior revealed no significant correlation. The authors found that, of twenty-three studies that had claimed to show correlation, nearly half contained at least one statistical error. Similarly, in a review of twenty studies examining correlations between Moon phase and suicides, most of the twenty studies found no correlation, and the ones that did report positive results were inconsistent with each other. A 1978 review of the literature also found that lunar phases and human behavior are not related.\n\nA July 2013 study carried out at the University of Basel in Switzerland suggests a correlation between the full Moon and human sleep quality. Professor Cajochen and colleagues presented evidence that a lunar rhythm can modulate sleep structure in humans when measured under the highly controlled conditions of a circadian laboratory study protocol without time cues. Studying 33 volunteer subjects, the researchers found that subjective and objective measures of sleep varied according to lunar phase and thus may reflect human circalunar rhythmicity. Stringently controlled laboratory conditions, in a cross-sectional setting, were employed to exclude confounding effects such as increased light at night or the potential bias in perception. Measures of lunar influence on sleep structure, electroencephalographic activity during non-rapid eye movement sleep (NREM), and secretion of the hormones melatonin and cortisol, were retrospectively analyzed. At no point, during and after the study, were volunteers or investigators aware of the posteriori analysis relative to lunar phase. Around full Moon it was found that electroencephalogram (EEG) delta activity during NREM sleep, an indicator of deep sleep, decreased by 30%, time to fall asleep increased by five minutes, and EEG-assessed total sleep duration was reduced by 20 minutes. These changes were associated with a decrease in subjective sleep quality and diminished endogenous melatonin levels. Cajochen said: \"The lunar cycle seems to influence human sleep, even when one does not 'see' the Moon and is not aware of the actual Moon phase.\" \n\nThere are suggestions that the 2013 Cajochen study is faulty because of a relatively small (n=33) sample size and inappropriate controls for age and sex. A 2014 study with larger sample sizes (n1=366, n2=29, n3=870) and better experimental controls found no effect of the lunar phase on sleep quality metrics. A 2015 study of 795 children found a 3-minute \"increase\" in sleep duration near the full moon, but a 2016 study of 5,812 children found a 5-minute \"decrease\" in sleep duration near the full moon. No other modification in activity behaviors were reported, and the lead scientist concluded: \"Our study provides compelling evidence that the moon does not seem to influence people's behavior.\"\n\nCalifornia Grunion fish have an unusual mating and spawning ritual during the spring and summer months. The egg laying takes place on four consecutive nights, beginning on the nights of the full and new Moons, when tides are highest. However, this is a well understood reproductive strategy that is more related to tides than it is to lunar phase. It happens to correlate with the lunar phase because tides are highest when the Sun, Earth, and Moon are aligned, i.e., at new Moon or full Moon.\n\nCorrelation between hormonal changes in the testis and lunar periodicity was found in streamlined spinefoot (a type of fish), which spawns synchronously around the last Moon quarter. In orange-spotted spinefoot, lunar phases affect the levels of melatonin in the blood.\n\nEvidence for lunar effect in reptiles, birds and mammals is scant, but among reptiles marine iguanas (which live in the Galápagos Islands) time their trips to the sea in order to arrive at low tide.\n\nIn insects, the lunar cycle may affect hormonal changes early in phylogenesis. The body weight of honeybees peaks during new Moon. The midge \"Clunio marinus\" has a biological clock synchronized with the moon.\n\nSpawning of coral \"Platygyra lamellina\" occurs at night during the summer on a date determined by the phase of the Moon; in the Red Sea, this is the three- to five-day period around the new Moon in July and the similar period in August. \"Acropora\" coral time their simultaneous release of sperm and eggs to just one or two days a year, after sundown with a full moon.\n\nThe Palolo worm that lives in the seas of Indonesia and Polynesia loose the terminal part of their bodies during a waning moon at a certain time of year. These parts float to the surface and release sperm and eggs. The terminal parts are gathered by people as a special food. The event would be predicted by the local priests, and the lunar calendar was set by the event. Because the Palolo adjust their spawning time between October and November, and because of inter-island differences in spawning times, there are factors other than the Moon that control the timing. Such factor may include seawater temperatures, tides, weather, or other biological signals.\n\nA relationship between the moon and the birth rate of cows was reported in a 2016 study.\n\nIn 2000, a retrospective study in the United Kingdom reported an association between the full moon and significant increases in animal bites to humans. The study reported that patients presenting to the A&E with injuries stemming from bites from an animal rose significantly at the time of a full moon in the period 1997-1999. The study concluded that animals have an increased inclination to bite a human during a full moon period.\n\nThe popular belief that the moon has an effect on plants is unsubstantiated. When witnessed, the effects have been indirectly attributed to \"moon gardeners\"' attentive care.\n\nSerious doubts have been raised about the claim that a species of Ephedra synchronizes its pollination peak to the full moon in July.\n\nAs reported on the Australian Broadcasting Corporation’s “Gardening Australia”, it is claimed that ripe passionfruit can drop more around the full moon “The full moon effect... at many full moons we get a really heavy drop of passionfruit, it’s an industry wide effect and nobody knows why it happens.”\n\nBelievers in the lunar theory suggest several different mechanisms by which the behaviour of the Moon could influence the behaviour of human beings. A common suggestion is that, since the Moon affects large bodies of water such as the ocean (a phenomenon known as \"tidal force\"), the Moon should be expected to have an analogous effect on human beings, whose bodies contain a great deal of water. However, this is a misconception that fails to take into account differences in scale. The tidal force is in fact very weak and should be expected to exercise no more gravitational pull on the human body than a mosquito. Besides this, the \"suggestion\" failed to account for the dependence of tides from both the phase of the Moon and the \"time of day\".\n\nBelievers (David Tredinnick being a prominent example) often support their claims by noting that many police officers, teachers, and nurses have observed a lunar effect in the course of their work. To the extent that nurses and police officers do indeed claim to observe patterns, this is most likely to be explained in terms of confirmation bias: People notice if something dramatic happens during a full Moon, but do not notice when nothing dramatic happens; furthermore, dramatic occurrences that do not occur during full Moons are typically not counted as evidence against the belief. Believers are further bolstered in their belief through communal reinforcement: The more people talk about the effect, the more people notice spurious relationships.\n\nFor some 3–4 million years, bipedal hominins in the East African Rift valley were evolving in potential conflict and competition with fearsome carnivores including sabre-toothed cats equipped with excellent night-vision. Using the largest data set ever recorded – 1,000 lion attacks on humans across Tanzania between 1988 and 2009 – Craig Packer and his colleagues showed that there is a peak of attacks by lions upon humans during the evening dark hours following full Moon. According to Packer, this may help explain why so many myths and superstitions attribute fearsome dangers and nightmarish potencies to the Moon. While not all archaeologists accept that lunar periodicity was ever relevant to human evolution, those favouring the idea include Curtis Marean, who heads excavations at the important Middle Stone Age site of Pinnacle Point, South Africa. Marean argues that anatomically modern humans around 165,000 years ago – when inland regions of the continent were dry, arid and uninhabitable – became restricted to small populations clustered around coastal refugia, reliant on marine resources including shellfish whose safe harvesting at spring low tides presupposed careful tracking of lunar phase. Against this background, if Marean is right, humans who ignored or misread the Moon might frequently have been drowned.\n\nA further suggestion is that positive ions increase in abundance during a full Moon and that this should be expected to influence human behavior. However, this is a pseudo-scientific claim. Not only is the increase in frequency extremely slight (much smaller than that caused by air conditioning and air pollution), but ionic charge – positive or negative – has no effect on human behavior, and no physiological effect other than static electric shock.\n\nStudies have shown that with regard to certain types of depression such as seasonal affective disorder (SAD), negative air ionization therapy has no statistically significant benefits beyond placebo. Moreover, such treatments require ionization many orders of magnitude greater than any differences produced by the lunar cycle, and there are superior effects found by using similar treatments with bright light instead of ion generators.\n\n\n61. Yonezawa T, Uchida M, Tomioka M, Matsuki N (2016) Lunar Cycle Influences Spontaneous Delivery in Cows. PLoS ONE 11(8): e0161735. doi:10.1371/journal.pone.0161735\n\n\n"}
{"id": "21158418", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21158418", "title": "Madam Pigott", "text": "Madam Pigott\n\nMadam Pigott or Madam Piggott is a ghost supposed to haunt the area of Chetwynd Park and the surrounding market town of Newport, Shropshire. She bears similarities to other White Ladies in British folklore.\n\nThe Chetwynd Park estate was once home to the Pigott family. Squire Pigott was a neglectful husband. When Madam Pigott did fall pregnant, the birth was not an easy one. Her doctor explained to Squire Pigott that he was unable to save the lives of both his wife and baby. Upon hearing this, the squire said only that \"one should lop the root to save the branch.\" However, the doctor's efforts were unsuccessful and both mother and child died.\n\nMadame Pigott's spirit returned, unable to rest due to her husband's words. Every night at midnight, she appeared from a skylight of the Old Rectory in Chetwynd. Some of her favorite places were Cheney Hill, which became known as Madame Pigott's Hill, and a twisted tree-root called Madam Pigott's Armchair. She might be seen walking the road between Edgmond and Newport or sitting and combing her baby's hair. If a rider passed through the area, Madam Pigott would leap onto the horse behind him. Her spirit was unable to cross water, so when the rider crossed a stream, she would let go.\n\nThe spirit was so well known in the area that twelve churchmen assembled to read Psalms and exorcise her. All but one of the clergymen gave in to exhaustion, leaving only Mr. Foy of Edgmond to continue reading. The prayers worked, but years after Foy's death, the ghost returned and had to be \"laid\" once more.\n\nGeorgina Frederica Jackson, who recorded the tale, mentioned an informant living in 1883 who claimed to have personally seen the ghost. \"Madame Piggott\" sightings have been recorded as recently as 2014. She has been said to appear around the A41 road between Newport and Market Drayton.\n\nIn a Romani version of the tale, the ghost is \"Miss Pigott,\" who died thrown from a horse at Chetwynd End. People successfully \"laid\" her by trapping her spirit in a bottle and throwing it into Chetwynd Pool. During a skating accident some time later, the bottle resurfaced and broke. Miss Pigott returned and plagued riders by leaping onto their horses. Twelve priests set out to exorcise her. Eleven were exhausted, but the oldest priest encouraged them and they managed to bottle the spirit a second time.\n\nThe Silky of Black Heddon is a similar White Lady. She had a preferred tree known as the Silky's Chair. She was also said to lurk in deserted roads, where she would climb on behind passing horsemen.\n"}
{"id": "5348970", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5348970", "title": "Movement of Spiritual Inner Awareness", "text": "Movement of Spiritual Inner Awareness\n\nThe Movement of Spiritual Inner Awareness (or MSIA) is a 501(c)(3) non-profit religious corporation, incorporated in California on June 25, 1971. Before incorporation, the group was founded in California in 1968 by John-Roger (formerly Roger Delano Hinkins). The church has about 5,000 active students, mainly in the United States, in 32 countries.\n\nMSIA teaches an active meditation technique known as Spiritual Exercises (SEs). Chanting specific sacred Sanskrit words internally is part of SEs. In this aspect MSIA SEs are similar to Transcendental Meditation (TM) practices. MSIA also offers its students a twelve-year study support subscription called Soul Awareness Discourses. Discourses are seen as an opportunity for individuals to connect inwardly with their own Divinity, each according to their desire and intention. Topics covered expose students to the teachings of MSIA and educate them to stay focused on their individual spiritual practices and service to others. Both initiatory tones and personal discourses are deemed sacred to each student individually and are not shared.\n\nThe Founder, John-Roger (formerly Roger Hinkins), and John Morton direct the group and are both referred to as the \"Traveler\".\n\nMSIA considers itself a church in very few traditional senses of the word. A deeply ambivalent attitude towards traditional \"religiosity\" characterizes the \"Movement.\" While it is legally incorporated as a church and provides tools and techniques for Soul transcendence for those who are looking for them, it prohibits members from evangelizing; it spreads primarily by word of mouth. MSIA has no program of building churches or other buildings, giving it similarities with other 'churches without walls.' It ordains ministers, but ordains no one to preach or teach, only to be of service. Service choices are determined entirely individually. MSIA has only vague and wide guidelines here.\n\nSoul Transcendence, as defined by MSIA, is the process of becoming aware of yourself as a soul and as one with God. MSIA considers that its teachings draw primarily on the ministry of Jesus Christ (\"The Christ Consciousness is the spiritual line of energy undergirding MSIA\"); teachings also include elements of Buddhism, Taoism, Judaism, and the Sant Mat/Radhasoami tradition.\n\nRoger Delano Hinkins was born on September 24, 1934, to a Mormon family in Rains, Utah. Hinkins was raised in Utah and received a Bachelor of Science degree in psychology from the University of Utah in 1958 before moving to San Francisco to work as an insurance claims adjuster before getting a job teaching English at Rosemead High School in a suburb of Los Angeles.\n\nAccording to Hinkins' official web site, he first attended the University of Utah, receiving a Bachelor of Science degree in psychology in 1958 and a Secondary Teaching Credential in 1960; he later performed post-graduate work at the University of California, Los Angeles, the University of Southern California and California State University, Los Angeles. Hinkins also holds a California Secondary Life Teaching Credential, and a Doctorate of Spiritual Science from the Peace Theological Seminary & College of Philosophy, an unaccredited institution which Hinkins founded in 1977.\n\nIn the early 1960s, Hinkins took a correspondence course with the Ancient Mystical Order Rosae Crucis and occasionally attended the Agasha Temple of Wisdom. Eckankar asserts that Hinkins also joined their group in 1967 and was given a second initiation by its founder Paul Twitchell in 1968 but this is disputed.\n\nIn late 1963, Hinkins underwent a kidney stone surgery, which led to a nine-day coma and near-death experience. Shortly after this, Hinkins visited two trance-channelers and claimed to have encountered a higher consciousness named 'John within himself', and began referring to himself as John-Roger.\n\nIn 1971 Hinkins formally organized MSIA, as a tax-exempt church based in California, United States.\n\nJohn-Roger died at age 80 on October 22, 2014 of pneumonia after several years of poor health.\n\n\nMSIA has been criticized by a variety of people over the years, but David C. Lane and Peter McWilliams, who provide the most substantive body of criticism, both focus on the role of founder John-Roger. The gist of Lane's criticism of Hinkins is that he uses spiritual teachings taken from Paul Twitchell's Eckankar (who in turn took them from Radha Soami Satsang Beas), with which Lane is actively involved. \nEx-MSIA Minister Peter McWilliams wrote \"Life 102: What to Do When Your Guru Sues You\", which was critical of Hinkins. McWilliams also dismisses MSIA as little more than a personality cult. In his book McWilliams asserts that Hinkins suffers from narcissistic personality disorder, possibly due to his 1963 coma.\n\nMcWilliams chronicles his extended relationship with Hinkins, accusing him of various misrepresentations and improprieties. However, McWilliams later agreed to abandon the copyright to MSIA to settle libel litigation over the contents of the book, and later asked that the book be removed from circulation in a notarized letter, stating \"the content of the book is no longer one with which I would like to have my name associated.\"\n\nIn his book \"\" author Christopher Hitchens criticizes both Mother Teresa and John-Roger for a staged photo shoot where the two posed together in a studio with a blank backdrop. A blurred backdrop of Calcutta's poor was added later. Hitchens questions the ethics of such a shoot, as well as Mother Teresa for accepting US$10,000 as part of an \"Integrity Award\" from MSIA, which he describes as having been \"exposed in print as corrupt and fanatical\".\n\nMSIA has frequently been accused of being a cult of personality. Whether or not MSIA should be labeled a cult is a matter of dispute. Both the movement and its founder have been through alleged scandals (published in \"People Magazine\" and the \"Los Angeles Times\" among other publications) suggesting financial improprieties as well as sexual misconduct by Hinkins. MSIA gained widespread attention during the senatorial campaign of Michael Huffington, whose wife, Arianna Huffington, denied that she was a member of MSIA. \n\nSeveral well-known individuals and public figures have been involved with MSIA. The most prominent of these is Arianna Huffington. Other notable members are the Beach Boys' Carl Wilson, model/actress Jaime King-Newman, actress Sally Kirkland, an MSIA minister since 1975, actress Leigh Taylor-Young, also an MSIA minister since 1975, actor Jsu Garcia, and author and management consultant David Allen. Author Peter McWilliams was also an MSIA minister but later repudiated MSIA and made a series of personal allegations against MSIA leader John-Roger in his book \"Life 102: What to Do When Your Guru Sues You.\"\n\n\n"}
{"id": "50906274", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50906274", "title": "Nagachandra", "text": "Nagachandra\n\nNagachandra or Abhinava Pampa was a 12th-century poet in the Kannada language.\n\nNagachandra, a scholar and the builder of the Mallinatha Jinalaya (a Jain temple in honor of the 19th Jain tirthankar, Māllīnātha, in Bijapur, Karnataka), wrote \"Mallinathapurana\" (1105), an account of the evolution of the soul of the Jain saint. According to some historians, King Veera Ballala I was his patron.\n\nHe wrote his \"magnum opus\", a Jain version of the Hindu epic Ramayana called \"Ramachandra Charitapurana\" (or \"Pampa Ramayana\"). Written in the traditional \"champu\" metre and in the \"Pauma charia\" tradition of Vimalasuri, it is the earliest extant version of the epic in the Kannada language. The work contains 16 sections and deviates significantly from the original epic by Valmiki. Nagachandra represents King Ravana, the villain of the Hindu epic, as a tragic hero, who in a moment of weakness commits the sin of abducting Sita (wife of the Hindu god Rama) but is eventually purified by her devotion to Rama. In a further deviation, Rama's loyal brother Lakshmana (instead of Rama) kills Ravana in the final battle. Eventually, Rama takes \"jaina-diksha\" (converts to \"Digambara monk\"), becomes an ascetic and attains \"nirvana\" (enlightenment). Considered a complementary work to the \"Pampa Bharatha\" of Adikavi Pampa (941, a Jain version of the epic Mahabharata), the work earned Nagachandra the honorific \"Abhinava Pampa\" (\"new Pampa\"). Only in the Kannada language do Jain versions exist of the Hindu epics, the Mahabharata and Ramayana, in addition to their brahminical version.\n\n"}
{"id": "2269771", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2269771", "title": "Oxford Capacity Analysis", "text": "Oxford Capacity Analysis\n\nThe Oxford Capacity Analysis (OCA), also known as the American Personality Analysis, is a list of questions which is advertised as being a personality test and that is administered for free by the Church of Scientology. The OCA test is offered by the Church of Scientology online, at its local churches, and sometimes at local fairs, carnivals, and in other public settings. It has no relation to the University of Oxford, although the name may have been chosen to imply so.\n\nThe test is an important part of Scientology recruitment and is used worldwide by the Church of Scientology to attract new members. However, it is not a scientifically recognized test and has been criticized by numerous psychology organizations, who point out that it is \"not a genuine personality test\" and allege that Scientologists use it in a \"highly manipulative\" and \"manifestly unethical\" fashion.\n\nTwo hundred questions make up the Scientology personality test. Each can be answered \"yes\", \"no\", or \"maybe\". Typical questions include:\n\nThe OCA test is often given at the same time as a \"Novis Mental Ability Test,\" a short 30 minute test which is claimed to measure IQ. After the two tests have been completed, a computer program is used to plot the results on a personality profile graph. This gives the testee's IQ rating and score in personality characteristics such as \"Stable,\" \"Happy,\" \"Composed,\" \"Certainty,\" \"Active,\" \"Aggressive,\" \"Responsible (Causative),\" \"Correct Estimation\" (meaning the testee's ability to look at a situation and determine what is needed to deal with it), \"Appreciative,\" and \"Comm[unication] Level\" (meaning the testee's ability to communicate with others).\n\nThe scale on the graph of each trait ranges from +100 to −100, with three main bands marked \"Desirable State\" (+100 to +30), \"Normal\" (+30 to 0) and \"Unacceptable State\" (0 to −100). In the middle are two shaded bands, \"Acceptable under perfect conditions\" (about +32 to about +6) and \"Attention Desirable\" (about +6 to about −18). A legend at the foot of the graph sheet warns that a point below the latter band indicates \"Attention Urgent.\"\n\nAfter the graph has been plotted, a Scientology staff member reviews the results with the testee.\n\nEven before the Church of Scientology had fashioned its own test, founder L. Ron Hubbard made personality tests central to his religion. In his 1951 book \"Science of Survival\", he recommended the use of existing psychometric exams, including the California Test for Mental Maturity.\n\nIn the mid-1950s, the project to create Hubbard's own test got underway. He commissioned a longtime follower, Julia Salman Lewis, to produce one. Her first effort, the American Personality Analysis (APA), failed to satisfy Hubbard. So in 1959 he asked a friend and fellow churchman, Ray Kemp, to broaden the scope of the test. Wrote Kemp:\n\nThe church first announced its test in an article by Kemp, who hailed the OCA in the pages of \"Certainty\", the magazine of the Hubbard Association of Scientologists in London. Later, the church gave credit to Hubbard for the test and trademarked the terms \"OCA\" and \"Oxford Capacity Analysis.\" The copyright holder is \"L. Ron Hubbard Library,\" a business alias of the Religious Technology Center.\n\nAt first the church just tested its members, not the public. Then in 1960, a recruitment drive in Johannesburg, South Africa was run. The South African campaign had kicked off with a newspaper ad:\n\nRespondents were tested in the Johannesburg Scientology office, having been told:\n\nHubbard proclaimed it \"the hottest, fastest procurement service set up we have ever had.\" He announced that the new \"Personal Efficiency Test Program,\" utilising the OCA, would be rolled out across Scientology in the next few months. Since then, OCA tests have been one of the most visible means by which the Church of Scientology attempts to attract new members.\n\nThe OCA is today used for two principal purposes. Within the Church of Scientology, it is used to test for improvement in the personality of a \"preclear\" (a novice Scientologist) and the effectiveness of the chosen Scientology \"process\". OCA evaluations are conducted regularly and recorded, following Hubbard's instructions:\n\nThe other use, more visible to non-Scientologists, is that of recruitment, using the OCA as a tool to attract new people for Scientology services. In a 1960 policy letter, Hubbard wrote:\n\nThe results of the test are invariably negative, as various reporters have found:\n\nFormer Scientologists have spoken of how \"everything that's wrong with [people]\" is purposefully emphasized in OCA test results. Individuals who have undertaken the OCA have described how they were given just such negative evaluations; as one young Sydney woman put it in an interview in 1980,\n\nHubbard advised that the hopelessness of the testee's predicament (or \"ruin,\" as he put it) should be emphasized by the tester, who should continually state that Scientology services are what is necessary for the situation to be salvaged:\n\nThe evaluator generally follows a script (Pre-written answers based on the test takers score.) originally devised by South African Scientologist Peter Greene around 1960/61, which Hubbard instructs \"must be studied and learned by heart\" by evaluators. Although the analysis is represented as being \"not our opinion of you, but ... a factual scientific analysis taken from your answers,\" it relies heavily on scripted responses set out in detail in the \"OCA Automatic Evaluation Script\".\n\nThe evaluator is instructed to recommend Scientology as the only viable remedy for such problems. Alternatives are to be mentioned — \"psychology, psychoanalysis, Dale Carnegie, Confidence Courses, Mental Exercises\" — but only for the purpose of dismissing them: \"these things had a very limited application and you could get yourself terribly involved in mysteries, expenses and wasted time, before you found any solutions to your difficulties. All across the world today, people are coming to us, to find simpler, more straight forward answers.\"\n\nThe vehemence with which OCA test evaluators attempt to \"impinge\" has attracted comment from non-Scientologists who have undergone the test. Writing in 1970, a British psychologist who underwent the test noted that\n\nIf an IQ test is added to the regular OCA examination, Scientology is likewise promoted as being essential no matter what the results — for everything from raising a low IQ to managing a high IQ. Hubbard provides four levels of grading for this test, for each of which there is a scripted response:\n\nThe OCA is licensed to Scientologist-owned companies through the World Institute of Scientology Enterprises. It has been used for a variety of purposes, most commonly employee screening.\n\nSome Scientologist doctors use the test to evaluate patients. Los Angeles celebrity plastic surgeon Dr. Edward Terino rates his patients on a \"Trouble Scale\" after administering the test, which he markets to doctors via a company called Surgeon's Insight. Terino, a Scientologist, adopted the test after being threatened with injuries by a husband who hated Terino's nose-job work.\n\nIt has often been used without alteration, but has also been issued in modified versions; for instance, MasterTech markets the OCA with minor changes and calls it the Personnel Potential Analysis Test.\n\nPsychologists have assailed the test's lack of scientific basis. Other critics call it intentionally manipulative and humiliating.\n\n\"The overall impression one gets [from the test manual],\" said a psychologist testifying before a public inquiry into Scientology in Victoria, Australia in the mid-1960s, \"is that it has been prepared by somebody with a smattering of psychometrics rather than by someone who is really competent in the field.\" A more detailed investigation was undertaken in 1970 by the British Psychological Society (BPS) at the request of politician Sir John Foster. The group's conclusions:\n\nAnother detailed evaluation was carried out in 1981 by Gudmund Smith, Professor Emeritus at the Institute of Psychology of the University of Lund, Sweden. This time the investigation was done for a prosecutor attacking a local branch of Narconon, the church's drug rehab offshoot. Smith cited numerous methodological and empirical flaws in the OCA, describing it as a \"terrible mess,\" and concluded (in translation from the original Swedish):\n\nThe OCA also came under scrutiny in Queensland, Australia in 1990, when it emerged that scores of people had lost their jobs after a Brisbane-based personnel management company had given them poor OCA evaluations, \"us[ing] such brutal terms they can read like character assassinations, leaving employers with little choice but to fire staff.\" The Australian Psychological Society denounced the OCA as \"downright dangerous,\" commenting that\n\nThe Church of Scientology has reportedly been unable to produce information to substantiate the validity of the Oxford Capacity Analysis. This has attracted criticism from the Buros Institute of Mental Measurements in Lincoln, Nebraska, which produces the \"Mental Measurements Yearbook\" — the industry \"bible\" for psychological tests. According to the institute, \"Any group should include information that substantiates the use of its test. If they can't, then it doesn't meet the standards for educational and psychological tests.\"\n\nThe OCA evaluators' criticism of their test subjects' personalities has also drawn sharp criticism. A London \"Evening Standard\" reporter described the unease she felt after she had taken the OCA test:\n\nPsychologists have echoed this critique. The methodological flaws of the OCA were such that, in the view of Professor Gudmund Smith, \"Analysis for evaluation of an individual is, in my opinion, manifestly unethical.\" Testifying in a court case in Ireland in 2003, Dr Declan Fitzgerald of University College Dublin said he believed that the OCA \"impinged on people's self-esteem and was highly manipulative.\" In its 1970 report, the British Psychological Society's working party was even harsher with its criticism, declaring that\n\nEven the name of the Oxford Capacity Analysis has been criticized as misleading. \"The Times\" comments that the test \"has nothing to do with Oxford University\" and says that \"Scientologists use the word \"Oxford\" to give it credence.\"\n\n\n"}
{"id": "10588444", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10588444", "title": "Prophet, seer, and revelator", "text": "Prophet, seer, and revelator\n\nProphet, seer, and revelator is an ecclesiastical title used in the Latter Day Saint movement. The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints (LDS Church) is the largest denomination of the movement, and it currently applies the terms to the members of the First Presidency and the Quorum of the Twelve Apostles. In the past, it has also been applied to the Presiding Patriarch of the church and the Assistant President of the Church. Other sects and denominations of the movement also use these terms.\n\nThe phrase \"prophet, seer, and revelator\" is derived from a number of revelations received by the founder of the Latter Day Saint movement, Joseph Smith. The first revelation received by Smith after the organization of the Church of Christ on April 6, 1830, declared that \"there shall be a record kept among you; and in it [Smith] shalt be called a seer, a translator, a prophet, an apostle of Jesus Christ, an elder of the church through the will of God the Father, and the grace of your Lord Jesus Christ\". In 1835, Smith further clarified the role of the President of the Church, \"to preside over the whole church, and ... to be a seer, a revelator, a translator, and a prophet\". In 1841, Smith recorded a revelation that again restated these roles: \"I give unto you my servant Joseph to be a presiding elder over all my church, to be a translator, a revelator, a seer, and prophet.\" In 1836, at the dedication of the Kirtland Temple, approximately one year after Smith organized the church's Quorum of the Twelve Apostles, he instructed that the members of the First Presidency and the apostles should also be accepted by the church as prophets, seers, and revelators:\n\nI made a short address, and called upon the several quorums, and all the congregation of Saints, to acknowledge the Presidency as Prophets and Seers and uphold them by their prayers. ... I then called upon the quorums and congregation of Saints, to acknowledge the Twelve, who were present, as Prophets, Seers, Revelators, and special witnesses to all the nations of the earth holding the keys of the kingdom, to unlock it, or cause it to be done among them, and uphold them by their prayers.\n\nLater, Smith further confirmed that people other than the President of the Church may hold these titles. For example, in 1841, a revelation described the role of Smith's brother Hyrum Smith as Assistant President of the Church: \"And from this time forth I appoint unto him that he may be a prophet, and a seer, and a revelator unto my church, as well as my servant Joseph\".\n\nThe words prophet, seer, and revelator have separate and distinct meanings within the Latter Day Saint movement. LDS Church apostle John A. Widtsoe described the meanings of the terms and the differences between them:\nA prophet is a teacher. That is the essential meaning of the word. He teaches the body of truth, the gospel, revealed by the Lord to man; and under inspiration explains it to the understanding of the people. He is an expounder of truth. Moreover, he shows that the way to human happiness is through obedience to God's law. He calls to repentance those who wander away from the truth. He becomes a warrior for the consummation of the Lord’s purposes with respect to the human family. The purpose of his life is to uphold the Lord's plan of salvation. All this he does by close communion with the Lord, until he is \"full of power by the spirit of the Lord.\" (Micah ; see also D&C 20:26; 34:10; 43:16)\n\nThe teacher must learn before he can teach. Therefore in ancient and modern times there have been schools of the prophets, in which the mysteries of the kingdom have been taught to men who would go out to teach the gospel and to fight the battles of the Lord. These \"prophets\" need not be called to an office; they go out as teachers of truth, always and everywhere.\n\nA prophet also receives revelations from the Lord. These may be explanations of truths already received, or new truths not formerly possessed by man. Such revelations are always confined to the official position held. The lower will not receive revelations for the higher office.\n\nIn the course of time the word \"prophet\" has come to mean, perhaps chiefly, a man who receives revelations, and directions from the Lord. The principal business of a prophet has mistakenly been thought to foretell coming events, to utter prophecies, which is only one of the several prophetic functions.\n\nIn the sense that a prophet is a man who receives revelations from the Lord, the titles \"seer and revelator\" merely amplify the larger and inclusive meaning of the title \"prophet.\" Clearly, however, there is much wisdom in the specific statement of the functions of the prophet as seer and revelator, as is done in the conferences of the Church.\n\nA seer is one who sees with spiritual eyes. He perceives the meaning of that which seems obscure to others; therefore he is an interpreter and clarifier of eternal truth. He foresees the future from the past and the present. This he does by the power of the Lord operating through him directly, or indirectly with the aid of divine instruments such as the Urim and Thummim. In short, he is one who sees, who walks in the Lord's light with open eyes. (Book of Mormon, Mosiah 8:15-17)\n\nA revelator makes known, with the Lord's help, something before unknown. It may be new or forgotten truth, or a new or forgotten application of known truth to man’s need. Always, the revelator deals with truth, certain truth (D&C 100:11) and always it comes with the divine stamp of approval. Revelation may be received in various ways, but it always presupposes that the revelator has so lived and conducted himself as to be in tune or harmony with the divine spirit of revelation, the spirit of truth, and therefore capable of receiving divine messages.\n\nIn summary: A prophet is a teacher of known truth; a seer is a perceiver of hidden truth, a revelator is a bearer of new truth. In the widest sense, the one most commonly used, the title, prophet, includes the other titles and makes of the prophet, a teacher, perceiver, and bearer of truth.\n\nAt the biannual general conference of the LDS Church, the name of the President of the Church is presented to the members as \"prophet, seer, and revelator and President of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints\". Members are invited to vote to sustain the president in these roles, and the signalling for any opposing votes is also allowed. Additionally, the counselors in the First Presidency and the members of the Quorum of the Twelve Apostles are sustained by the membership as \"prophets, seers, and revelators\". Until October 1979, the Presiding Patriarch of the church was also sustained as a \"prophet, seer, and revelator\". Apostles who are not members of the Quorum of the Twelve or the First Presidency and other general authorities, (e.g., members of the Quorums of the Seventy and Presiding Bishopric) are not sustained as prophets, seers, and revelators.\n\nThe procedure of sustaining is repeated in local congregations of the LDS Church several times per year at stake, district, ward, or branch conferences. These procedures are mandated by the theology of the LDS Church, which dictates governance by the \"common consent\" of the membership.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "12115031", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12115031", "title": "Rabha tribe", "text": "Rabha tribe\n\nRabha (also Rava) is an indigenous Assamese community of the Indian states of Assam, Meghalaya and West Bengal. The language/dialect spoken by the Rabha people is mostly Assamese but in some areas the Rabha dialect is also spoken. In Assam, the Rabhas live mostly in Goalpara and Kamrup districts. In Meghalaya, Rabhas are mostly found in Garo Hills districts. In West Bengal, Rabha people mainly live in Jalpaiguri district and Cooch Behar district. Moreover, almost, 70 per cent of them live in Jalpaiguri district. The whole area of Eastern and Western Dooars, may be termed as the cradle land of the Rabhas. The Rabhas refer to themselves as Koch and assert a connection to the historical Koch Kingdom.\n\nThe Rabhas belong to the Indo Mongoloid group of people and have similarities with other members of Koch group such as Garos, Kachari, Mech, Koch, Hajong and others. Most of the Rabhas of Dooars refer to themselves as Rabha, but some of them often declare themselves as \"Kocha\".\n\nRabha people traditionally practice a few animistic rituals. However, today they more often follow a faith, which is a blend of some Hindu and a few animistic rituals. There are considerable differences in ritual practices among forest Rabhas who still live in the forest villages and the Rabhas that live in the villages as cultivators. The forest Rabhas follow traditional animistic practices tinged with some rituals of mainstream Hinduism. On the other hand, village Rabhas have merged with local Hindus as far as their religious practices are concerned.\n\nRabha people's religious world is pervaded with various spirits and natural objects. The main deity of the Rabhas is called \"Rishi\". \"Rishi\", for the forest Rabhas as well as village Rabhas, is a male deity. He is also known as \"Mahakal\". Forest Rabhas worship him in all important social and religious ceremonies.\n\n\nCitations\n\nBibliography\n"}
{"id": "7318197", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7318197", "title": "Salmacis (fountain)", "text": "Salmacis (fountain)\n\nSalmacis or Salmakis was the name of a fountain or spring located in modern day Bodrum, Turkey. According to some classical authors, the water had the reputation of making men effeminate and soft. Ovid famously recounts the myth in his story about Hermaphroditus and the nymph of the spring Salmacis.\n\nSalmacis was a fountain, located near the Mausoleum of Halicarnassus. In classical times, it had:\n\"the slanderous repute, for what reason I do not know, of making effeminate all who drink from it. It seems that the effeminacy of man is laid to the charge of the air or of the water; yet it is not these, but rather riches and wanton living, that are the cause of effeminacy.\" —Strabo \"Geography XIV.2.16’'\n\nThis was illustrated by Hellenic sculptors, who produced several works depicting a person of dual-gender. The power of the spring was rejected by other Romans, such as the architect Vitruvius \"there is a mistaken idea that this spring infects those who drink of it... it cannot be that the water makes men effeminate\" —Vitruvius ’’On Architecture’’ 2.8.12\n\nIn Book IV of his poem Metamorphoses, Ovid recounts the myth of how the fountain came to be so in the story of the nymph Salmacis (after whom the fountain is, in this account, named), her attempted rape of Hermaphroditus, and his resultant change into an intersex being. Scholars such as Károly Kerényi have asserted that Ovid's account was not a classical one and that the story was in fact invented by him.\n\nIn 1995, the so-called 'Salmakis Inscription' was discovered by Turkish authorities on the promontory of Kaplan Kalesi, which juts out into the sea to the south-west of Bodrum harbour. \n\nThe inscription is a poem sixty lines long, partly damaged but mainly well preserved, and was cut into an ancient wall sometime during the Hellenistic period. It is written in elegiac verse and the general theme is one of civilization. The first lines form the poet's invocation of the goddess Aphrodite, early in Aphrodite's story we encounter the water nymph Salmacis and her son Hermaphroditus:\n\nThe inscription also contains a list of famous authors born in Halikarnassos. First on the list being the Greek historian Herodotos. It is now being housed in the Museum of Underwater Archaeology at Bodrum Castle.\n\nThe progressive rock band Genesis tells the story in song with \"The Fountain of Salmacis\".\n\n"}
{"id": "9085393", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9085393", "title": "Sarva Dharma Sama Bhava", "text": "Sarva Dharma Sama Bhava\n\nSarva Dharma Sama Bhava is an Hindu concept embodying the equality of the destination of the path's followed by all religions (Although the path's themselves may be different). The concept was embraced by Ramakrishna and Vivekenanda, as well as Mahatma Gandhi. Although commonly thought to be among the ancient Hindu vedas, the phrase is actually attributed to Gandhi, having been used first in September 1930 in his communications to his followers to quell divisions that had begun to develop between Hindus and Muslims toward the end of the British Raj. The concept is one of the key tenets of secularism in India, wherein there is not a separation of church and state, but an attempt by the state to embrace all religions.\n\n\"Sarva dharma sama bhav\" has been rejected by a small portion of highly conservative Hindu's who claim that religious universalism has led to the loss of many of Hinduism's rich traditions.\n\n\"Sarva dharma sama bhav\" is often mistranslated as \"All religions are the same\", although it's true meaning is closer to \"All path's lead to the same destination [In a religious sense]\".\n\n"}
{"id": "28173758", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28173758", "title": "Shenxian Zhuan", "text": "Shenxian Zhuan\n\nThe Shenxian Zhuan, sometimes given in translation as the Biographies of the Deities and Immortals, is a hagiography of immortals and description of Chinese gods, partially attributed to the Daoist scholar Ge Hong (283-343). In the history of Chinese literature, the \"Shenxian Zhuan\" followed the \"Liexian Zhuan\" (\"Collected Biographies the Immortals\"), misattributed to the Han scholar Liu Xiang.\n\nThe \"Shenxian Zhuan\" title combines three words:\n\nThe word \"shenxian\" can be parsed either as \"shénxiān\" \"gods and transcendents\" or as \"shénxian\" \"divine transcendent\". \"Shenxian\" commonly occurs in Standard Chinese usage. Examples (with literal meanings) include both words like \"shenxianyan\" 神仙眼 (with \"eyes\") \"seer; clairvoyant\" or \"shenxianyu\" 神仙魚 (\"fish\") \"angelfish\", and phrases like \"shenxian xiafan\" 神仙下凡 (\"come down to earth) \"an immortal becomes incarnate\" or \"shenxianzhongren\" 神仙中人 (\"among people\") \"the happiest mortal alive\".\n\nScholars have variously translated \"Shenxian Zhuan\" as:\n\"Zhuan\" 傳 is consistently translated as \"biographies\" or \"lives\", with the exception of Campany's \"traditions\", based upon the meaning \"to transmit\". Kohn (2002:329-330) criticizes Campany's translation that \"ignores the fact that the word was obviously used in dynastic historical and other collections to mean \"biography.\" He also tends to refer to the content of the work as \"hagiographies,\" never as \"traditions,\" which really means something quite different in English.\"\n\nThe \"Shenxian Zhuan\" is traditionally attributed to the Jin Dynasty scholar and religious practitioner Ge Hong, who is best known as author of the \"Baopuzi\" \"Master Who Embraces Simplicity\". \"The majority of Chinese critics,\" Sailey (1978:299) notes, \"believe that the version which we have today is probably not the same one that Ge Hong wrote.\"\n\nGe's autobiography (\"Baopuzi\" Outer Chapter 50) records that he completed writing the \"Shenxian Zhuan\" and several other books during the Jianwu 建武 era (317–318), when Emperor Yuan of Jin founded the Eastern Jin Dynasty.\nIn all I wrote 著 [\"Baopuzi\"] \"neipian\" 內篇 in twenty chapters, [\"Baopuzi\"] \"waipian\" in fifty chapters, one hundred chapters of inscriptions 碑, eulogies 頌, poems 詩, and rhapsodies 賦 and thirty chapters of military dispatches 軍書, proclamations 檄移, memorials to the throne 章表, and memoranda 箋記. I also compiled 撰 biographies of those not listed as a matter of course – \"Shenxian Zhuan\" 神仙傳 – in ten chapters and biographies of those who in their nobility refused office – \"Yinyi zhuan\" 隱逸傳 – in ten chapters. In addition, I made an anthology of three hundred and ten chapters of military affairs 兵事, techniques 方伎, miscellaneous entries 短雜 and oddities 奇要 by copying excerpts 抄 from the five classics, the seven histories and the one hundred philosophers, and made a table of contents. (tr. Penny 1996:166)\nCompare other translations of this ambiguous又撰俗所不列者 description of the \"Shenxian Zhuan\":\nGe Hong specifically uses the verb \"zhuan\" 撰 \"compose; write; compile\" for the \"Shenxian Zhuan\" and \"Yinyi Zhuan\" \"Biographies of Recluses\", which is no longer extant. Thus, Durrant (1986:677) writes, \"Most of the biographies are extracted from various earlier works, so Ko is really much more of an editor than an author of \"Shen-hsien chuan\".\"\n\nSeveral early sources confirm that Ge Hong wrote the \"Shenxian Zhuan\" (Penny 1996:166, Campany 2002:119). The (ca. 429) \"Sanguozhi\" commentary by Pei Songzhi (372-451) quotes the \"Shenxian Zhuan\" and notes \"what was recorded by Ge Hong came close to deluding the masses. But as his writings are so widely circulated, I have selected a few of the events.\" Liu Xiujing 陸修靜's (437) \"List of Lingbao texts\" states that Ge Hong \"selected and compiled\" the \"Shenxian Zhuan\". The \"Shui Jing Zhu\" \"Commentary on the Waterways Classic\" by Li Daoyuan (d. 527) also attributes the \"Shenxian Zhuan\" to Ge. The (6th century) biography of the Shangqing School patriarch Tao Hongjing (456-536) says he \"obtained Ge Hong's \"Shenxian Zhuan\" and studied it day and night and so mastered its ideas on nourishing life.\" Campany concludes, \nWe can therefore be as confident that Ge Hong compiled a work titled \"Shenxian Zhuan\" as we can of almost any other authorial attribution in this period of Chinese history. But it is equally certain that the \"Shenxian Zhuan\" that has come down to us is not exactly the text that Ge Hong wrote. (2002:119)\n\nSome scholars have questioned Ge's authorship of the \"Shenxian Zhuan\" based on textual inconsistencies, particularly with Ge's \"Baopuzi neipian\". Arthur Waley doubted that Ge Hong wrote both the \"Baopuzi\" (Inner Chapter 16, tr. Ware 1966:264-5) and \"Shenxian Zhuan\" (tr. Campany 2002:139-140) biographies about Cheng Wei 程偉, whose physiognomy caused his wife to refuse teaching him alchemy.\nNot only is the style strangely different, but the \"Shen Hsien Chuan\" version is so meagre and so incompetently told that one doubts whether the author of it is even trying to pass himself off as Ko Hung. It seems indeed likely that the \"Shen Hsien Chuan\", though a work of the fourth century, was merely an anonymous series of Taoist biographies, which some mistaken person labeled as Ko Hung's \"Shen Hsien Chuan\" and divided into ten chapters. (1930:10)\nKominami Ichirō (1978) analyzed the principles for immortality in Ge's two books.\nFor Ge Hong in \"Baopuzi\" achieving immortality is a technical problem in which self-reliance is paramount. The stories in the \"Shenxian Zhuan\", on the other hand, depict the attainment of immortality as a process based on submission and complete faith in a teacher who bestows the means of immortality on proven disciples. In this Iatter version, immortality does not come from within oneself, but is derived from external sources. (Penny 1996:171) \nKominami hypothesized that Shangqing School editors revised the \"Shenxian Zhuan\" from Ge's original text to emphasize their belief in external powers, but Penny (1996:173) finds Kominami's evidence \"unconvincing both for the existence of an \"original\" and its stance on the attainability of immortality.\" \nCampany faults arguments against Ge Hong's authorship of the \"Shenxian Zhuan\" for committing two fallacies. \nOne is the fallacy of textual holism: the assumption that if one or a small number of passages are problematic, then the overall attribution of authorship must be in error. … The other fallacy is that of an assumption of consistency, that texts by a single author, whenever they were written during his lifetime, must have originally been completely consistent in their values and priorities as well as in how they handle specific figures, techniques, and events. (2002:119-120) \nSince the \"Shenxian Zhuan\" is a compilation of biographies from various sources, textual inconsistencies are predictable.\n\nDuring the Sui (581-618), Tang (618-907), and Song Dynasties (960-1279), the \"Shenxian Zhuan\" was widely known and extensively quoted. Song editions of the Daozang included the text, but copies were lost when Mongol Yuan Dynasty officials burned \"apocryphal\" Daoist books in 1258-59 and 1280-81 (Penny 1996:175). The 1444 Ming Dynasty \"Daozang\" \"Daoist canon\" does not contain a complete version of the \"Shenxian Zhuan\", and most received texts were compiled during the Qing Dynasty. Scholars have long suspected, writes Barrett (2003:229), that \"the best-known version currently available was actually confected for commercial rather than academic purposes in the sixteenth century from quotations in other sources, and that the direct tradition of the text has been lost.\"\n\nSome editions of the \"Shenxian Zhuan\" have different numbers and arrangements of biographies. Modern versions contain around ninety biographies, which differs from Tang-era versions. Zhang Shoujie 張守節's 736 commentary to the \"Shiji\" lists 69 biographies (Penny 2008:887). The Buddhist scholar Liang Su 梁肅 (753-793) reported that the text had 190 biographies. According to Penny (2008:887), \"The unfortunate but inescapable conclusion derived from this text is that modern versions of \"Shenxian Zhuan\" are possibly less than half the size of an 8th Century version of \"Shenxian zhuan\", and there is no reliable way of determining which biographies have been lost.\"\n\nModern \"Shenxian Zhuan\" texts exist in several ten-chapter versions, one five-chapter version (1868 \"Yiyuan junhua\" 藝苑捃華), and various one-chapter abstracts (Penny 1996:178-179, 198). Two ten-chapter versions are commonly available, but neither, concludes Penny (2008:888), \"is entirely satisfactory\". First, the 1794 \"Longwei mishu\" 龍威秘書 edition, which stems from the 1592 \"Guang Han Wei congshu\" 廣漢魏叢書 version recompiled from sources including \"Taiping guangji\" 太平廣記 quotations, contains 92 hagiographies. Second, the 1782 \"Siku Quanshu\" 四庫全書 edition, which stems from the 1641 Jiguge 汲古閣 edition published by Mao Jin 毛晉, contains 84 hagiographies. The best known one-chapter Ming Dynasty versions of the \"Shenxian zhuan\" include the ca. 1620 \"Yimen guangdu\" 夷門廣牘 and 1646 \"Shuofu\" 說郛 versions (Penny 1996:179).\n\nDating \"the original\" \"Shenxian Zhuan\" text is impossible because its transmission stopped after the Southern Song Dynasty (1127–1279) book burnings. Campany concludes, \nBased upon detailed analysis of \"Shenxian Zhuan\" editions and fragments, Stephan Peter Bumbacher (2011:807) confirms the possibility that the text \"indeed is from Ge Hong's brush\"; however, if it is a forgery, \"then it must have been fabricated in the time between Ge Hong's death and the earliest testimonies in the early 5th century, most probably during the first decades after his decease.\"\n\nThe earliest English translations from the \"Shenxian Zhuan\", for instance, Lionel Giles (1948) or Eva Wong (1997: 96-104), were only of selected biographies. Robert Campany (2002) wrote the first full translation, which many reviewers have praised. For example, \"monumental\" (Kohn 2002:329), \"a giant leap forward in our understanding of the religious world of early medieval China\" (Benn 2003:138), and \"magisterial\" (Haar 2004:486). \n\nCampany's book is more than a critical annotated translation; it is also a painstaking reconstruction of the textual strata. He analyzed \"Shenxian Zhuan\" quotations in some forty sources dating from the fifth to seventeenth centuries, and chronologically recompiled them into three groups. Group A are biographies fully attested in works until the end of the Tang Dynasty (618-907), Group B are those only mentioned in these sources, and Group C are those ascribed to the \"Shenxian Zhuan\" only since the Song Dynasty (960-1279).\n\nReviewers have criticized some of Campany's translations for disregarding conventions (e.g., \"traditions\" for \"zhuan\" \"biographies\" noted above). For instance (2002:52-60), he translates \"shijie\" 尸解 (lit. \"corpse separation\") as \"escape by means of a simulated corpse\". This obscure Daoist term, usually translated \"liberation from the corpse\" (Benn 2003:139) or \"corpse liberation\" (Robson 2004:490), refers to a method of \"xian\" transformation involving a substitute corpse to fake death. Other \"shijie\" translations include \"release by means of a corpse\", \"one's soul leaves the body and becomes an immortal after death\", and \"dissolve bodily into a spirit\". Campany (2002:58) lists common elements in \"Shenxian Zhuan\" narratives involving \"shijie\" transcendence. Employing \"bianhua\" simulation of death (Robinet 1993: 167-168), an adept will typically pretend to become ill, feign death, and be buried. Later he or she is seen alive, always at a distant place, and when the coffin is opened, instead of a corpse, it contains some other object (talisman, sword, clothing, etc.). Adepts will occasionally change their names as a device to elude detection by spirits in the underworld bureaucracy. In the \"Baopuzi\", Ge Hong ranked \"shijiexian\" 尸解仙 \"escape by means of a simulated corpse transcendents\" as the lowest of three categories, below \"tianxian\" 天仙 \"celestial transcendents\" who ascend into the heavens and \"dixian\" 地仙 \"earthbound transcendents\" who wander in the mountains.\n\nCampany lists four reasons for studying the \"Shenxian Zhuan\".\nFor one thing, Ge Hong's works afford us an unparalleled glimpse into certain aspects of Chinese religious life and practice at a critical time in the history of Chinese religions. … For another thing, Ge Hong records elements of religious ideas and disciplines relating to the quest for transcendence that might otherwise remain unknown to us, and his writings constitute a valuable \"terminus ante quem\" for them. … With respect to Daoist religious history proper, furthermore, Ge Hong's writings, and the practices, ideas, and values represented in them, constitute an important voice in ongoing inter- or intrareligious rivalries and self-definitions. … Finally, research on Ge Hong's works has at least two contributions to make to the cross-cultural study of religions. The religion he documents was an extraordinary human response to the phenomenon of death. … [and contributes] new material for an as yet unrealized cross-cultural understanding of hagiography as a type of religious writing, a theme in religious studies heretofore largely dominated by Christian and Islamic categories. (2002:9-11) \n\nPenny summarizes why the \"Shenxian Zhuan\" is important. \nThe biographies provide a wealth of information about how immortality was viewed in early medieval China, detailing important features of how immortals, and those who sought immortality, lived, their extraordinary abilities, their relationship to other people and society at large, including government at all levels, the way they interacted with other spiritual beings, the drugs they concocted, and how they transformed their environments for themselves. (2008:888)\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1039543", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1039543", "title": "Sherilyn Fenn", "text": "Sherilyn Fenn\n\nSherilyn Fenn (born Sheryl Ann Fenn; February 1, 1965) is an American actress. She came to attention for her performance as Audrey Horne on the TV series \"Twin Peaks\" (1990–1991, 2017) for which she was nominated for a Golden Globe Award and an Emmy Award. She is also known for her roles in \"Wild at Heart\" (1990), \"Of Mice and Men\" (1992), \"Boxing Helena\" (1993) and the television sitcom \"Rude Awakening\" (1998–2001).\n\nFenn was born Sheryl Ann Fenn on February 1, 1965 in Detroit, Michigan. She comes from a family of musicians: her mother is keyboard player Arlene Quatro, her aunt is singer Suzi Quatro, her grandfather Art Quatro was a jazz musician, and her father, Leo Fenn, managed such rock bands as Suzi Quatro's The Pleasure Seekers, Alice Cooper, and The Billion Dollar Babies. Fenn is of Italian and Hungarian descent on her mother's side, and of Irish and French descent on her father's. She was raised Catholic.\n\nFenn frequently traveled with her mother and two older brothers before the family settled in Los Angeles when she was 17. Not wanting to start with a new school again, Fenn dropped out after her junior year and decided to pursue acting, enrolling at the Lee Strasberg Theatre Institute.\n\nFenn began her career with a number of B-movies, including \"The Wild Life\" (1984, opposite Chris Penn), the 1986 skater film \"Thrashin'\" (opposite Josh Brolin and Pamela Gidley), the 1986 teen car action and revenge fantasy \"The Wraith\" (alongside Charlie Sheen and opposite Nick Cassavetes), the 1987 horror film \"Zombie High\" (alongside Virginia Madsen), and the \"Beauty and the Beast\"-inspired erotic movie \"\". She had a part in the 1985 cult teen-comedy \"Just One of the Guys\" in which she tries to seduce a teenaged girl who was disguised as a boy, played by Joyce Hyser. Fenn starred alongside Johnny Depp in the 1985 short student film \"Dummies\", directed by Laurie Frank for the American Film Institute. Fenn and Depp dated for three and a half years, subsequently getting engaged. In 1987, she joined Depp in a season-one episode of \"21 Jump Street\" called \"Blindsided\".\n\nFenn has described many of these early films as sexploitation films \"where directors tried to convince [her] to appear naked after the contract was signed.\" In a February 1993 interview she explained,Still, I did a lot of movies instead of waitressing or that kind of thing at the beginning, and it wasn't as if I even took acting very seriously when I started. I was in California for the first time. I was going to clubs, I was going here, I was going there, I was skipping acting classes when I could. Luckily, I had an agent who really believed in me and she just kept pushing me, thinking something would happen.\n\nFenn landed her first starring role, as an engaged heiress to an old Southern family who falls for carnival worker Richard Tyson, in Zalman King's erotic drama film \"Two Moon Junction\", after which she wanted to hide for a year: \"I was so embarrassed about how it turned out that I went into a cocoon for a year afterwards.\" \"Junction\" was meant to be Fenn’s big break, but the film turned into another sexploitation film. \"A lot of people said some really bad things about me for doing such a sexy movie. But I decided to do it because I \"wasn't\" comfortable with the material. I didn't want to make choices that would always put me in a place that was comfortable and secure. I thought interesting things would happen and I would grow. Interesting things did happen. I cried at the end of all my love scenes.\"\n\nAfter these film experiences, Fenn decided to take control of her career. \"I decided to be more myself and not to be pushed into what other people wanted me to be. It’s scary how little imagination many people in this business have.\"\n\nFenn won her most famous role and made an impression on the public when she was cast by David Lynch and Mark Frost as the tantalizing, reckless Audrey Horne, a high school \"femme fatale\", in the TV series \"Twin Peaks\". The series ran from 1990 to 1991, and the character of Audrey was one of the most popular with fans, in particular for her unrequited love for FBI Special Agent Dale Cooper (played by Kyle MacLachlan) and her style from the 1950s (with her saddle shoes, plaid skirts, and tight sweaters). Fenn reached cult status with a scene in which she danced to Angelo Badalamenti's music and a scene in which she knotted a cherry stem in her mouth. \"With Sherilyn Fenn, \"Twin Peaks\" came on and effortlessly destroyed every other show’s sexuality\", said James Marshall, one of her cast-mates. Speaking in September 1990, Fenn pointed out: \"Audrey is a woman-child who dresses like the girls in the '50s and shows her body. But she's daddy's little girl at the same time.\" In the show's second season, when the idea of pairing Audrey with Cooper was abandoned, Audrey was paired with other characters like Bobby Briggs (played by Dana Ashbrook) and John Justice Wheeler (Billy Zane). About Audrey, Fenn said: \n\nShortly after shooting the \"Twin Peaks\"' pilot episode, David Lynch gave her a small part in \"Wild at Heart\", as a girl injured in a car wreck, obsessed by the contents of her purse, alongside Nicolas Cage and Laura Dern. The film won the Golden Palm Award at the 1990 Cannes Film Festival. \"David’s direction was, ‘Only think of this: bobby pins, lipstick, wallet, comb, that’s it.’ It’s very abstract.\" \"I just pictured her being able to do this,\" said Lynch of her scene, \"she’s like a broken China doll.\" David Lynch, who once described Sherilyn Fenn as \"five feet of heaven in a ponytail\" (quoting from a 1958 record by The Playmates), said to Banner, who used that description as the title of his article, \"She's a mysterious girl and I think that actresses like her who have a mystery – where there's something hiding beneath the surface – are the really interesting ones.\" \"He's very creative and unafraid of taking chances,\" she said of the director. \"I really respect him. He's wonderful.\" Also during this period, Fenn appeared on the cover and in a nude pictorial in the December 1990 edition of \"Playboy\" magazine.\n\nShe soon portrayed John Dillinger's girlfriend Billie Frechette in ABC's 1991 gangster TV movie \"Dillinger\" opposite Mark Harmon, and shot the neo-noir black comedy \"Desire and Hell at Sunset Motel\" in which she played a sultry, seductive \"femme fatale\".<br>\nAfter \"Twin Peaks\", Fenn chose to focus on widening her range of roles and was determined to avoid typecasting. She stated, \"They’ve offered me every variation on Audrey Horne, none of which were as good or as much fun.\" She turned down the Audrey Horne spinoff series that was offered to her, and unlike most of the cast, chose not to return for the 1992 prequel movie \"\", as she was then shooting \"Of Mice and Men\".\n\nAfter two nominations (Emmy and Golden Globe) for \"Twin Peaks\", and the pictorial in \"Playboy\" mentioned above, for which she chose her then boyfriend, Barry Hollywood, to photograph her, Fenn was propelled to stardom and became a major sex symbol, with her Old Hollywood looks. In October 1990, while promoting \"Twin Peaks\", Fenn made the cover of \"Rolling Stone\" magazine along with Mädchen Amick and Lara Flynn Boyle. In 1990 \"Us Magazine\" chose her as one of the \"10 Most Beautiful Women in the World\" and in 1991 \"People\" magazine chose her as one of the \"50 Most Beautiful Women in the World\". She posed for photographer Steven Meisel for the autumn-winter 1991–1992 Dolce & Gabbana campaign, for which he photographed her as a classical Hollywood \"femme fatale\". In 1992, photographer George Hurrell took a series of photographs of Sherilyn Fenn, Sharon Stone, Julian Sands, Raquel Welch, Eric Roberts, and Sean Penn. In these portraits, he recreated his style of the 1930s, with Fenn posing in costumes, hairstyle, and makeup of the period.\n\nIn 1991, Hollywood acting coach Roy London chose her to star in his directorial debut \"Diary of a Hitman\", in which she plays a young mother determined to protect her child from hit man Forest Whitaker. According to Fenn, the turning point in her career was when she met London in 1990. She credits him with instilling confidence and newfound enthusiasm. She learned from her beloved teacher \"to find the roles that you're passionate about, that speak to you on some level and which will help you grow on some level,\" which has then become her line of conduct. \"A lot of the sentiment that acting should be about an art form rather than mass entertainment and celebrity is at the core of Fenn’s attitude to the business,\" wrote Jessica Sully in Australian magazine \"Movie\". \"I try to keep myself centered,\" Fenn said. \"I don't go to parties and all that. I don't think being seen or being in the right place is going to make me a better actress. I care about my work and try to do what's right in my heart.\" As Mike Bygrave wrote in \"Sky Magazine\": \"One of the keys to understanding Fenn is that when she talks about the characters she plays she's really talking about herself.\" Fenn was eager to play varied parts that could eclipse her sex-symbol image. \"People who think they know me would be surprised that my whole life doesn't revolve around sex,\" she said. After \"Twin Peaks\", Fenn demanded a no-nudity clause in her contracts. She turned to independent films, choosing varied and unusual roles: \n\nA highlight of Fenn's film career is Gary Sinise's film adaptation of \"Of Mice and Men\", in which she played a sad and lonely country wife, desperately in need to talk to somebody, opposite Sinise and John Malkovich. \"Sherilyn’s one of the reasons we got such a great ovation at Cannes\", said Sinise. \"She’s like a terribly sad angel in this film. Sherilyn plays against just being a sexy and beautiful girl,\" he added.\n\"Gary Sinise was one of the first people who didn’t see me like a lot of other people did\", she said. \"It was a wonderful experience. Horton Foote adapted the novel and he fleshed out my character, and he made her much, much more.\"\nThe same year, she starred alongside Danny Aiello and others in John Mackenzie's \"Ruby\", about Jack Ruby. Fenn played the part of ambitious stripper Sheryl Ann DuJean, a fictitious character who is a composite of several real-life women including stripper Candy Barr, Marilyn Monroe, and Judith Campbell Exner. \"She’s got a brain and all the right emotional instincts, and that’s a great combination,\" said Mackenzie of Fenn.\n\nIn 1993, she starred in the romantic comedy \"Three of Hearts\" as Kelly Lynch and William Baldwin's love interest. During the shooting, the relationship between Fenn and director Yurek Bogayevicz became strained as she refused to appear nude in the film.\n\nAnother of her notable film roles was in \"Boxing Helena\", directed by David Lynch's daughter Jennifer Chambers Lynch. Fenn portrayed a narcissistic seductress amputated and imprisoned by Julian Sands, who makes her become his personal Venus de Milo in an effort to possess her. Fenn said of the film, \"Society, Hollywood, some men... they want to wrap women up in a neat little package.\" Both Lynch and Fenn were proud of their work in it, but the film was ultimately a critical and commercial failure. (Perhaps suspecting that possibility, Kim Basinger had rejected the role Fenn ultimately acted out, at the expense of nearly wiping out her available money and being forced to declare bankruptcy as a direct result.) However, both women enjoyed their collaboration. \"Sherilyn is an amazing actress, a total bundle of energy and a real powerhouse and I think people will see a side of her that we have never seen of Sherilyn anywhere else before,\" said Lynch of the actress. \"Jennifer’s one of the brightest person I know,\" said Fenn. \"\"Boxing Helena was\"... not perfect, but I think for the story that we were trying to tell, it turned out pretty good. What it signified was really powerful to me: how society puts us in boxes one way or another.\"\n\nShe then starred in Carl Reiner's neo-noir parody \"Fatal Instinct\" as Armand Assante's devoted secretary and Sean Young's and Kate Nelligan’s rival. She was asked to read for the \"femme fatale\" Lola (eventually played by Young), but opted for the secretary role.\n\nFenn afterward portrayed Potiphar's wife Zulaikha in Showtime's 1995 Biblical TV movie \"Slave of Dreams\" opposite Adrian Pasdar and Edward James Olmos.\n\nIn 1995, she starred in an episode of \"Tales from the Crypt\" directed by Robert Zemeckis, alongside Isabella Rossellini and John Lithgow, in which she played the lover of Humphrey Bogart, who appeared in the episode via CGI special effects.\n\nAfter a short break during which she married and gave birth to a son, Fenn was chosen out of more than 100 actresses to portray actress Elizabeth Taylor in NBC's 1995 telemovie \"\". Fenn called the role \"probably the hardest job I’ve ever done.\" \"Director Kevin Connor and I arranged a lunch, not an audition,\" said executive producer Lester Persky. \"We knew 10 minutes into our meeting that Sherilyn was it. She has the same striking beauty, and because of that she's experienced some of the things in life and in this business that make Elizabeth such a fascinating person.\" When she accepted the part, Fenn was unaware that Taylor was embroiled in a lawsuit intended to stop both the broadcast of the film and the unauthorized biography that it was based on. Fenn stated about the controversy, \"I am somebody who doesn't make choices lightly at this point of my life. I'm not somebody who wants to exploit another's woman story or life in any way.\" Fenn felt a kinship with Taylor, stating, \"There are stereotypes of what a beautiful woman is. She struggled with that. A certain part of her life she went on that calling card. I certainly know I've come into contact with that. ‘You are too pretty,’ I'm told.\" During the shooting, Fenn supported the original screenwriter's effort to concentrate on Taylor the person, not the legend: \n\nIn the late 1990s, Fenn's career took a downturn. In 1993, she had stated:\n\nIn 1997, she stated: \"It was crazy, I was very picky. In other words, I didn't take advantage of what was happening necessarily then.\" Also, she has attributed her failure to adapt to the Hollywood system to her frankness and her dislike for the \"Hollywood game.\"\nShe then began to alternate TV movies and independent films. In 1996, she joined the ensemble cast in the romantic comedy \"Lovelife\" as a waitress who attempts to become a writer and has to rebuild her life. Fenn also appeared in the 1997 romantic comedy \"Just Write\", along with Jeremy Piven, as the dream actress of a Hollywood tour bus driver, who mistakes him for a famous screenwriter. Both films have been well-received on the festival circuit.\n\nIn a 1997 episode of \"Friends,\" \"The One with Phoebe's Ex-Partner,\" which was Episode 14 of Season 3 of the show, Fenn guest-starred as Matthew Perry's girlfriend Ginger, who has a prosthetic right leg. She stated, \"I like the show. I was happy to be a part of it.\"\n\nThe same year, she was cast as the female lead in ABC's show \"Prey\" (originally entitled \"Hungry for Survival\") and starred in the unaired original pilot episode. However, the pilot was reshot and Fenn was replaced by Debra Messing.\n\nFenn starred in the 1998 British psychological drama and huis-clos \"Darkness Falls\" as a wealthy and neglected wife, who is sequestered with her husband (played by Tim Dutton) by a man (Ray Winstone) determined to understand the events that led to his wife ending up in a coma. Fenn called the film \"a wonderful character piece\" While shooting the film in the Isle of Man in late 1997, Fenn considered settling in London to start a European career, but eventually decided to stay in the U.S.\n\nShe subsequently starred alongside Jon Tenney in the pilot for a remake of ABC's \"Love, American Style,\" for the 1998–1999 television season. The pilot, that also featured Melissa Joan Hart, Matt Letscher, and Mariska Hargitay, was not ordered into a series. Nevertheless, ABC aired it on February 20, 1999.\n\nFenn gained newfound enthusiasm with the lead role in Showtime's sitcom \"Rude Awakening\" as Billie Frank, an alcoholic ex-soap opera actress, who tries to go sober and become a writer, but continues to struggle with her self-destructive habits. The series ran from 1998 to 2001 and co-starred Lynn Redgrave, Jonathan Penner, and Mario Van Peebles. She said of it: \n\nFenn again joined Jeremy Piven in a 1998 episode of \"Cupid\", as Piven's love interest.\n\nIn 1999, she reteamed with Chris Penn and Adrian Pasdar for Pasdar's art-house directorial debut, the neo-noir \"Cement,\" a contemporary retelling of \"Othello\" in which she played a tempting but imprudent wife of jealous corrupt cop Penn. \"I play a character who's selfish and sloppy with her sexual energy. I saw the film and I was really happy with it. It's got a lot of soul.\" The film, which won Best Picture awards on the festival circuit, was written by \"Farscape’s\" screenwriter, Justin Monjo and also starred Jeffrey Wright and Henry Czerny.<br>\nShe also reteamed with actor/director Bruce Davison for his 2001 family comedy, Showtime's \"Off Season\" alongside Rory Culkin, Hume Cronyn, and Adam Arkin.\n\nFollowing \"Rude Awakening,\" Fenn's work consisted of a number of episodic TV appearances. In the middle of the 2000s, she failed to find a role that could re-ignite her career as she got involved in many projects that went unrealized.\n\nIn 2001, she starred in \"The Outer Limits\" episode \"Replica\", playing a scientist who volunteered to be cloned. She also starred in an episode of \"Night Visions\", as a woman who buys a used car possessed by a vengeful spirit. She was cast as a kindergarten teacher for the pilot of the 2001 American version of the British TV show \"Blind Men\", alongside French Stewart. However, the pilot was not ordered into a series.\n\nIn 2002, Fenn was one of several former \"Twin Peaks\" stars, such as Dana Ashbrook and Mädchen Amick, to have a recurring role on The WB's \"Dawson's Creek\". She guest-starred in three episodes from the fifth season, as Alex Pearl, the seductive manager of the restaurant where Joshua Jackson works. Fenn was afterwards cast as Harley Quinn in The WB's \"Birds of Prey\", but was replaced by Mia Sara before the series began. Fenn starred in the original pilot episode, but dropped out, due to scheduling conflicts, as the show's creators realized that the character Harley Quinn would need to be a bigger part of the show.\nShe also played a manipulative woman in a season-four episode of \"\" versus both Christopher Meloni and Mariska Hargitay, and appeared in \"Watching Ellie\".\n\nFenn played a crime boss in the 2002 film \"Swindle\" alongside Tom Sizemore. She had a small role in the film \"The United States of Leland\" alongside Ryan Gosling, in which she played a mother who captivates a troubled teenage boy.\n\nIn 2003, Fenn appeared on The WB's \"Gilmore Girls\" as Sasha, the girlfriend of Jess Mariano's estranged father (played by Rob Estes) in the season-three episode \"Here Comes the Son\", which was the back-door pilot for a California-set spin-off titled \"Windward Circle\", that was to have starred Milo Ventimiglia, Estes, and Fenn. But the network dropped the project, citing cost issues due to filming on location in Venice, California.\n\nShe then played the recurring part of Violet Montgomery on Fox's \"Boston Public\" (2003–2004), and appeared in Showtime's \"Cavedweller\" (2004) opposite Kyra Sedgwick.<br>\nIn 2004, Fenn joined former co-star Mark Harmon in an episode of \"NCIS\", as an amnesiac woman. She was afterwards cast for the 2004 remake of \"Mister Ed\", planned for the Fox network—but after the pilot was shot, the show's writer/producer, Drake Sather, committed suicide, and the pilot was not aired.\n\nIn 2004, Fenn co-starred opposite Traci Lords and Paul Johansson in Emily Skopov's \"Novel Romance,\" released in 2006, in which she played a pregnancy shop owner who herself cannot have children. She then appeared in the martial arts film \"Lesser of Three Evils\" alongside Ho Sung Pak, Peter Greene, and Roger Guenveur Smith, as the unbalanced and alcoholic wife of a corrupt detective. The film was released in 2009 under the title \"Fist of the Warrior.\"\n\nIn 2005, Fenn made a notable appearance on \"The 4400\", playing Jean DeLynn Baker, a 4400 who has the ability to grow toxin-emitting spores on her hands. She also guest-starred on the final episode of \"Judging Amy.\"\n\nAfter finishing the Russia-set action film \"Treasure Raiders\" with David Carradine, Fenn starred in the Canadian psychological thriller \"Presumed Dead,\" alongside Duncan Regehr, as a detective working on a missing-person case who has to outwit a crime novelist.\n\nIn 2006, Fenn reteamed with Amy Sherman-Palladino and reappeared in the sixth and seventh seasons of \"Gilmore Girls\" as Anna Nardini, the ex-girlfriend of Luke Danes (played by Scott Patterson) and protective mother to his daughter April. Since the failure of the 2003 \"Gilmore Girls\" spin-off project, Sherman-Palladino had continued to want to work with Fenn again, and she wrote the character of Anna with her in mind. When asked why she cast Fenn for two different roles on \"Gilmore Girls,\" Sherman-Palladino explained: However, after Sherman-Palladino left the show, the direction for the character changedthe producers decided to make her character a villain in a custody battle.\n\nFenn was cast as the female lead in ABC's 2006 comedy series \"Three Moons Over Milford,\" but she was ultimately replaced by Elizabeth McGovern.<br>\nFenn was slated for a recurring role on CBS's 2006 crime drama \"Smith,\" but the show was quickly canceled.\n\nShe appeared in the 2007 \"Dukes of Hazzard\" prequel, \"\" as Lulu Hogg. \"It's just a fun silly role,\" Fenn said. But having already worked with director Robert Berlinger on \"Rude Awakening,\" she wanted to do so again.\n\nIn July 2006, shortly after shooting \"The Dukes of Hazzard\" prequel, Fenn stepped behind the camera for the first time and directed in Pittsburgh a documentary film about child enrichment program CosmiKids and its founder, Judy Julin. She subsequently joined its executive team in 2007 as executive director of the film and television division.In July 2008, Fenn filmed \"The Scenesters\", a black comedy made by Los Angeles-based comedy group The Vacationeers, which premiered in October 2009. In July 2009, Fenn made a guest appearance on \"In Plain Sight\" as a lesbian counterfeiter.\n\nIn December 2010, Fenn appeared on \"Psych\" with other \"Twin Peaks\" actors on the season-five episode \"Dual Spires\" as sultry librarian Maudette Hornsby. The episode paid homage to \"Twin Peaks\" and also made many in-joke references to the show. She reprised her role as Audrey Horne in 2017 for the limited third season of \"Twin Peaks\". In February 2016, she joined the cast of the American version of \"Shameless.\"\n\nFenn dated pop singer Prince for a short time during 1985 and then Johnny Depp in 1986; their relationship lasted several years.\n\nIn 1994, Fenn married guitarist-songwriter Toulouse Holliday, whom she met on the set of \"Three of Hearts\".\n\nFenn is the mother of two boys, born in 1993 and 2007.\n\nFenn began practicing Transcendental Meditation in 2014.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "51439826", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51439826", "title": "Shrutakevalin", "text": "Shrutakevalin\n\nShrutakevalin () a term used in Jainism for those ascetics who have complete knowledge of Jain Agama. Shrutakevalin and Kevalin (omniscient beings) are equal from the perspective of knowledge, but \"Shrutajnana\" is \"Paroksha\" (indirect) whereas kevala jnana (omniscience) is \"pratyaksha\" (direct). \"Kevali\" can describe infinite part of the infinite knowledge that they possess. Shrutakevalins are learned of 14 Purvas.\n\nAccording to the Jain text, Sarvārthasiddhi: \"The teachers are of three kinds, namely the Omniscient Tirthankara, his disciples (\"Śruta kevalis\") and the later preceptors (Acharyas). The scriptures were really taught by the Omniscient Tirthamkara, gifted with perfect knowledge of unimaginable power and splendour. The Lord is free from all kinds of impurities and is possessed of direct and perfect knowledge. Hence His word is authoritative. The Lord’s chief disciples called Ganadharas gifted with vast knowledge recollect the import of the Lord’s teachings and compose works called \"angas\" and \"pūrvas\"\" .\"\n\nAfter the moksha (liberation) of Mahavira, Gautamaswami, Sudharmaswami and Jambuswami were three Kevalins. After Jambuswami, according to Digambara tradition, Vishnu, Nandi, Aparajita, Govardhan and Bhadrabahu and according to Svetambara tradition, Prabhava, Shaiyamabhava, Vishobhadra, Sabhuvijaya, Bhadrabahu and Sthulibhadra were the six Shrutakevalins. Some Svetambara don't consider Sthulibhadra as Shrutakevalin and accept only other five.\n"}
{"id": "286164", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=286164", "title": "Skoptsy", "text": "Skoptsy\n\nThe Skoptsy (; singular \"castrate\"; also transliterated as \"Skoptzy\", \"Skoptzi\", \"Skoptsi\", \"Skopzi\", \"Scoptsy\", etc.) were a heretical sect, within the larger Spiritual Christianity movement in the Russian Empire, best known for practicing castration of men and the mastectomy of women in accordance with their teachings against sexual lust. The term is a descriptive one used by the official Russian Orthodox Church.\nThe movement emerged in the late 18th century. It reached the peak of its popularity in the early 20th century, with as many as 100,000 members, in spite of persecution by the imperial government. Despite severe repression under the Soviet Union some members still lived at the start of the 21st century.\n\nSkoptsy is a plural of \"skopets\", at the time the Russian term for \"castrate\" (in contemporary Russian, the term has become restricted to referring to the sect, in its generic meaning replaced by the loanwords \"yévnukh\" е́внух and \"kastrat\" кастрат).\n\nThe Skoptsy referred to themselves as the \"White Doves\" . Their aim was the perfection of the individual, by eradicating Original Sin, which they believed had come into the world by the first coitus between Adam and Eve. They believed that human genitals were the true mark of Cain, and that the true message of Jesus Christ included the practice of castration, that Jesus himself had been a castrate, and that his example had been followed by the apostles and the early Christian saints.\n\nThey believed that human genitals were a mark of Original Sin, more specifically, that after the expulsion from the Garden of Eden, Adam and Eve had the halves of the forbidden fruit grafted onto their bodies forming testicles and breasts. Thus, the removal of these sexual organs restored the Skoptsy to the pristine state before the Original Sin. In this the Skoptsy maintained that they were fulfilling Christ's counsel of perfection in Matthew 19:12 and 18:8–9.\n\nThere were two kinds of castration: the \"lesser\" and \"greater seal\" (i.e. partial and complete castration). For men, \"lesser\" castration was the removal of the testicles only, while \"greater\" castration was the removal of the penis as well (emasculation). Men who did the \"greater seal\" used a cow-horn when urinating. The castrations and emasculations were made with primitive tools such as a shaving knife without using any anesthetic. The earliest records of mastectomy date from 1815. Usually only the breasts were amputated.\n\nThe Skoptsy movement emerged in ca. the 1760s from the flagellant sect of the Khlysty. Its founder was a peasant, later known by the name of Kondratiy Ivanovich Selivanov, a former adherent of a Khlysty sect of one Akulina Ivanovna in the Oryol Governorate. Selivanov had started his own sect in village of Sosnovka near Morshansk, styling himself \"Son of God\" and \"Redeemer\":\nThe community of Selivanov's followers, numbered at 246 people, were put on trial in 1772. Selivanov was convicted of having persuaded thirteen other peasants to castrate themselves. He at first managed to escape, but he was apprehended in 1775 and exiled to Nerchinsk, Siberia.\nHis followers organized to locate him and help him escape. He was found to live in Irkutsk, and managed to escape and move to Moscow in ca. 1795. In 1797, he moved to Saint Petersburg where, according to Skoptsy accounts he was interviewed by Tsar Paul I, to whom he revealed himself as his father, Peter III (who had been assassinated in 1762), following which Paul I had him confined to the madhouse at Obukhov hospital.\n\nHe was released in 1802, and for eighteen years, until 1820, he lived in Saint Petersburg, in the house of one of his disciples, receiving double homage as Christ and tsar, as he identified himself as both Tsar Peter III and as Christ Returned. \nPeter had been popular among the Raskolniks (schismatics, or dissidents) because he granted them liberty of conscience, and among the peasants because when pillaging the convents he divided their lands among the labourers. Selivanov claimed the title \"God of Gods and King of Kings\", and announced his accomplishment of the salvation of believers through castration.\n\nSelivanov succeeded in gaining followers even among the upper classes of Saint Petersburg.\nWhen the Governor General of Saint Petersburg, Mikhail Miloradovich, learned that two of his nephews, as well as several members of the guards regiments and sailors, were members of the sect, he asked the imperial government to intervene. Eventually, in June 1820, it was decided to once again arrest Selivanov, and confine him to Evfimiev monastery in Suzdal, where he remained until his death in 1832, allegedly his hundredth year. During his stay in Suzdal, his followers continued to plead for his release. Although this was denied, Selivanov was free to receive visitors in the monastery, and his followers worshipped him there. He also left writings, known under the title \"The Message\" (Послание) and \"Harvest\" (Страды), as well as nine letters addressed to the priest Sergeyev.\n\nDespite the furious investigations of the Third Department (the tsar's secret police),\nSkoptsism did not disappear after Selivanov's death, and scandals continued to arise. The sect established a presence in Saint Petersburg, Moscow, Morshansk and Odessa, and later in Bukarest and Iași, where members of the sect had fled to due to the persecution by authorities. By 1866, the sect was reported as having 5,444 members (3,979 men and 1,465 women). Although Skoptisism prescribed castration as a precondition for entering paradise, only a minority of members (703 men and 100 women) had undergone bodily mutilation. Alexandre Dumas, père, writes about the sect, calling them \"scopsis\", towards the end of his account of his journey through Caucasia, \"Le Caucase, Memoires d'un Voyage\", 1858, where he met them in Georgia. In the book \"The Idiot\", Fyodor Dostoevsky mentions Skoptsy tenants in a boarding house. Dostoevsky also mentions Skoptsy in the 1872 novel \"Demons\".\n\nRepressive measures were tried along with ridicule: male Skoptsy were dressed in women's clothes and paraded with fools' caps on through the villages. In 1876, 130 Skoptsy were deported. To escape prosecution some of the sect emigrated, mostly to Romania, where some of them mixed with old believer exiles known as Lipovans. Romanian writer I.L. Caragiale acknowledges that toward the end of the 19th century all the horse-powered cabs in Bucharest were driven by Russian Skoptsy (\"Scopiţi\" in Romanian). Though the law was strict in Russia—every eunuch was compelled to register—Skoptsism did not abate in its popularity.\nThe Skoptsy became known as moneylenders, and a bench known as the \"Skoptsy's Bench\" stood in St. Petersburg for many years.\n\nThe Skoptsy may have had as many as 100,000 followers in the early 20th century, although repression continued and members of the sect were put on trial (\"New York Times\" 1910). Increased repression and collectivization under the Soviet Union reduced the numbers to a reported few thousand in 1929, when the authorities staged a widely-publicized mass trial against the sect.\n\nLeon Trotsky, in a report from Romania in 1913, wrote about the Skoptsy in the Dobruja region who worked as horse-cab drivers and played a predominant role in the local horse trade. Patrick Leigh Fermor in \"The Broken Road\" describes his encounters (in 1933/4) with two Skapetz in a Budapest tavern and as a passenger in their horse-drawn cabs:\n\"Their crass little blue eyes were embedded in wide, soft, smooth faces covered with tiny creases and wrinkles. They conversed in oddly high-pitched voices in a language that sounded at first like Bulgarian but soon turned out to be—judging by its shifting vowels and liquid sounds—Russian.\"\nOlivia Manning in \"The Great Fortune\" (1960) describes the Skoptsy carriage drivers of Bucharest based on her visit in 1939.\n\nAccording to the \"Great Soviet Encyclopedia\" the sect still operated within the USSR in 1947. It is believed to have mostly disappeared by the 1970s, although there are reports of surviving communities in Latvia in the 1990s.\nA small sect of so-called \"spiritual Skoptsy\" (духовные скопцы), ascetics who do not practice castration, survive in the North Caucasus.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "6940296", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6940296", "title": "T. Thorn Coyle", "text": "T. Thorn Coyle\n\nT. Thorn Coyle is a Portland-based author and teacher who began in the Feri Tradition and the Reclaiming tradition, but now works and teaches within her own \"Morningstar\" practice and \"mystery school.\"\n\nCoyle is author of \"Evolutionary Witchcraft\", published by Tarcher/Penguin, 2004. The book offers exercises and meditations from the Feri Tradition as tools for personal growth and empowerment. She has also recorded two Pagan rock CDs, \"Face of a New Day\" and \"Give us a Kiss!\", as well as an instructional DVD, \"Devotional Dance\". With Sharon Knight, she wrote and recorded two albums of pagan devotional music, \"Songs for the Waning Year: A Collection of Chants to Celebrate the Dark Time of the Year\" and \"Songs for the Strengthening Sun: A Collection of Chants to Celebrate the Return of the Sun\". She also contributed to the Pandemonaeon album \"Dangerous Beauty\".\n\nIn 2008, Coyle began producing a series of podcasts called \"Elemental Castings\" wherein she interviews practitioners of a variety of magical and mystical traditions on their study and work with the classical elements of Air, Fire, Water, Earth, and Aether (or Spirit).\n\nCoyle's second book, \"Kissing the Limitless: Deep Magic and the Great Work of Transforming Yourself and the World\", was released on February 10, 2009.\n\nThorn Coyle, aka Theresa Dutton, was born September 24, 1965 and was reared in the Catholic faith in Whittier, California. She first learned of Paganism when she was 13, and later had her first training as a witch when she went to Fullerton College at 16. She dropped out of college at age 18 and moved to San Francisco. She studied in the Feri tradition of witchcraft with Cora and Victor Anderson and has also studied in the Sufi and Gurdjieff traditions. She cites the punk and anarchist movements as important influences.\n\nThorn Coyle has many tattoos, and wrote this of them in 1997: \"Tattoos are spiritual markers for me. When I started getting them ten years ago, it came from a need to have rites of passage that included spiritual reminders and physical markers. All my tattoos have a spiritual meaning to me, and layers of meaning that shift over time.\" \n\n\n"}
{"id": "14443260", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14443260", "title": "Texas Jewish Post", "text": "Texas Jewish Post\n\nThe Texas Jewish Post started publication in 1947. Rene and Jimmy Wisch were the starters of the TJP. Their family now works there. \n\nAccording to the Handbook of Texas Online, \"The Jewish Telegraphic Agency, a news service supported by the Council of Jewish Federations and Welfare Funds, provided wire reports. Reportage also has originated from Seven Arts Features, Worldwide News Services, and the United Nations Service. The Post's own correspondents contributed coverage from Washington, D.C., and Israel.\" \n\nThe Handbook of Texas Online states that, \"Although the Post was a confirmed Zionist newspaper, subscribers represented a broad range of Jewish congregations, organizations, agencies, and enterprises within the circulation area, and the pages carried a variety of opinions in columns and contributed articles. The paper sought to reach beyond Fort Worth in coverage and circulation, and to communicate Jewish concerns to gentiles as well as the Jewish community. Post subscribers and advertisers included non-Jews.\" \n\n\n"}
{"id": "1328907", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1328907", "title": "Tinsel", "text": "Tinsel\n\nTinsel is a type of decorative material that mimics the effect of ice, consisting of thin strips of sparkling material attached to a thread. When in long narrow strips not attached to thread, it is called \"lametta\", and emulates icicles. It was originally a metallic garland for Christmas decoration. The modern production of tinsel typically involves plastic, and is used particularly to decorate Christmas trees. It may be hung from ceilings or wrapped around statues, lampposts, and so on. Modern tinsel was invented in Nuremberg, Germany, in 1610, and was originally made of shredded silver.\n\nAccording to the \"Concise Oxford Dictionary\", the word is from the Old French word \"estincele\", meaning “sparkle”.\n\nTinsel was invented in Nuremberg around 1610. Tinsel was originally made from extruded strands of silver. Because silver tarnishes quickly, other shiny metals were substituted. Before the 16th century, tinsel was used for adorning sculptures rather than Christmas trees. It was added to Christmas trees to enhance the flickering of the candles on the tree. Tinsel was used to represent the starry sky over a Nativity scene.\n\nBy the early 20th century, manufacturing advances allowed cheap aluminium-based tinsel, and until World War I, France was the world leader in its manufacture. Production was curtailed during the First World War as a result of wartime demand for copper.\n\nDuring the 1950s, tinsel and tinsel garlands were so popular that they frequently were used more than Christmas lights, as tinsel was much less of a fire hazard than lights were for the then-popular aluminum Christmas trees, which were made from flammable aluminized paper.\n\nLead foil was a popular material for tinsel manufacture for several decades of the 20th century. Unlike silver, lead tinsel did not tarnish, so it retained its shine. However, use of lead tinsel was phased out after the 1960s due to concern that it exposed children to a risk of lead poisoning. In the United States, the Food and Drug Administration (FDA) concluded in August 1971 that lead tinsel caused an unnecessary risk to children, and convinced manufacturers and importers to voluntarily stop producing or importing lead tinsel after January 1, 1972. The FDA did not actually ban the product because the agency did not have the evidence needed to declare lead tinsel a \"health hazard.\"\n\nModern tinsel is typically made from polyvinyl chloride (PVC) film coated with a metallic finish. Coated mylar film also has been used. These plastic forms of tinsel do not hang as well as tinsel made from heavy metals such as silver and lead.\n\nGermans refer to a row of military Awards and decorations as \"Lametta\" (German for tinsel), similar to dressing in full regalia or with a high level of formality. The expression was coined earlier to describe the appearance of Hermann Göring, e.g. in a \"Chanson\" by Claire Waldoff, \"Rechts Lametta, links Lametta, Und der Bauch wird imma fetta\" (right tinsel, left tinsel, and the belly gets immense).\n\nHumorist Loriot's 1977 film \"Weihnachten bei Hoppenstedts\" about a family Christmas involved a Prussian educated grandfather humming the \"\" with \"ra-da-buff\" and deploring the lack of tinsel („\"Früher war mehr Lametta!\"“ \"There used to be more tinsel!\" has become proverbial).\n\nTinsel has many traditional uses in India, including decorations on images, garlands for weddings and other ceremonies, and ornamental trappings for horses and elephants. Tinsels of various types are popular materials used in fly tying.\n\n"}
{"id": "53730627", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53730627", "title": "Tughshada", "text": "Tughshada\n\nTughshada was Bukhar Khudah (king of Bukhara) from 681 to 739. He was the son and successor of Bindu.\n\nTughshada was born in ca. 681—a few months later, during the Muslim conquest of Transoxiana, Bindu was killed by the Umayyad general Salm ibn Ziyad. Tughshada, who was a few months old, then succeeded him. However, the kingdom was in reality controlled by Tughshada's mother, who is only known by her title of Khatun, and is celebrated in the local historical tradition for her wisdom and capable management. She is reported to have held court daily, \"inquired into the affairs of state and issued orders and prohibitions,\" while at a distance stood \"two hundred youths from the landowners and the princes ready for service, girded with gold belts and bearing swords.\" In 676 she dispatched a contingent to aid an Arab assault on Samarqand.\n\nIn 706, a civil war erupted in Bukhara and its surrounding cities and towns; the ruler of the nearby Wardana, known as the \"Wardan Khudah\", had seized most of the principality, while a Sogdian magnate named Khunuk Khudah, managed to rally the nobles of Bukhara around him and declared himself as the Bukhar Khudah. At the same time, the new Umayyad governor of Khurasan, Qutayba ibn Muslim, had captured Paykand, a city near Bukhara. The city soon revolted, and the Arabs responded by sacking the city. The brutality of the sack of Paykand shocked the Sogdian world, and led the nobles of Bukhara under Khunuk to make an alliance with the Wardan Khudah. However, during the fighting between the Arabs and Sogdians, the Wardan Khudah was killed, which probably constituted a heavy blow to the Bukhara-Wardana alliance. Bukhara was shortly after captured by Qutayba, who imposed a tribute of 200,000 \"dirhams\", and installed an Arab garrison to secure against rebellion. During the same time, another Sogdian king named Tarkhun, who was the ruler of Samarkand, acknowledged the authority of the Umayyad Caliphate. After having settled an affair in Tokharistan, Qutayba restored Bukhara to the young Tughshada, and the faction of Khunuk including himself were executed.\n\nLater, in 712/3, in order spread Islam in Bukhara, Qutayba built a mosque in the city's citadel, and even encouraged the natives to convert by paying them to attend the prayers. However, Islamization proceeded very slowly, and the rulers of Bukhara would remain Zoroastrian until their downfall. Tughshada, however, still tried to achieve independence from the Umayyad Caliphate, and in 718, along with Tarkhun's successor Gurak, Narayana, the king of Kumadh, and Tish, the king of Chaghaniyan, he sent an embassy to the Tang dynasty of China, where they asked for aid against the Arabs. In ca. 728, a anti-Arab revolt erupted in Bukhara, which was suppressed one year later. Tughshada was assassinated by two angry \"dehqan\" nobles in 739, and was succeeded by his son Qutayba, who was named in honour of the Umayyad general.\n\n"}
{"id": "26366188", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26366188", "title": "Wedding cord", "text": "Wedding cord\n\nThe traditional wedding cord, also known as the wedding lasso, is a piece of wedding paraphernalia used in some Christian Catholic wedding ceremonies. This is actually a representation of a loop of rosary beads made out of white satin or silk. During the wedding proper, this is traditionally formed into a figure-of-eight shape, and then placed around the neck areas of the bride and the groom after they have made their wedding vows, and are already kneeling on pillows for the pronouncement of a wedding prayer. This cord symbolizes lifetime unity or the everlasting union of the bride and groom when they officially become husband and wife, as well as a symbol of marital protection; while the loops formed signifies their love for one another. After the wedding, this marital twine is typically kept by the bride as a wedding souvenir. Use of the traditional wedding cord for weddings is common in Hispanic countries such as Mexico, the Philippines, and Spain.\n\nAfter shrouding the bride and groom with the wedding veils, a pair of wedding participants is assigned in placing the wedding cord around the couple, with the groom being the first to be \"lassoed\" or \"looped\" by it at the shoulder area. The cord is held in place by means of pins. In other wedding ceremonies, the wedding cord is tied around the couple’s wrists. The wedding cord stays on and around the couple until the wedding mass or religious service is finished. Then, it is removed by the same pair of wedding participants who were assigned to place the loop around the couple. The significance of the \"lassoing\" is to symbolize the unification of the couple in matrimony for their entire lives.\n\nOn the other hand, the ritual for the cord of three strands is performed by the bride and the groom. The groom holds the end of the cord that has a metal ring, while the bride braids the strands together. The braiding is done while an explanation of the significance of the braiding ritual is being read, or while a wedding music is being played, or while a wedding song is being chanted. The resulting braid is kept in place temporarily by a rubber band, and then permanently by a gold thread. The loop can signify the sacramental union itself or simply the, \"yoke of marriage.\"\n\nThis Hispanic tradition in Spanish was approved by the U.S. Conference of Catholic Bishops in 2010. In September 2016, an English language version was approved and placed in the English Order of Celebrating Matrimony along with the arras.\n"}
{"id": "7734074", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7734074", "title": "Yeseria", "text": "Yeseria\n\nYeseria is a technique of carving plaster used by the Spanish Moors like also by the post-Reconsquista's Mudéjar architecture. Plaster was often carved into geometric and Islamic-influenced motifs. The Alhambra and the Córdoba Synagogue have many fine examples of yeseria.\n\n\nNasrid Plasterwork: Symbolism, Materials & Techniques] (info on 'naqch hadîda' technique)\n"}
