{"id": "30927438", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30927438", "title": "Achaemenid Empire", "text": "Achaemenid Empire\n\nThe Achaemenid Empire (; , \"The Empire\" ), also called the First Persian Empire, was an empire based in Western Asia founded by Cyrus the Great. Ranging at its greatest extent from the Balkans and Eastern Europe proper in the west to the Indus Valley in the east, it was larger than any previous empire in history, spanning 5.5 (or 8) million square kilometers. Incorporating various peoples of different origins and faiths, it is notable for its successful model of a centralised, bureaucratic administration (through satraps under the King of Kings), for building infrastructure such as road systems and a postal system, the use of an official language across its territories, and the development of civil services and a large professional army. The empire's successes inspired similar systems in later empires.\n\nBy the 7th century BC, the Persians had settled in the south-western portion of the Iranian Plateau in the region of Persis, which came to be their . From this region, Cyrus the Great advanced to defeat the Medes, Lydia, and the Neo-Babylonian Empire, establishing the Achaemenid Empire. Alexander the Great, an avid admirer of Cyrus the Great, conquered most of the empire by 330 BC. Upon Alexander's death, most of the empire's former territory came under the rule of the Ptolemaic Kingdom and Seleucid Empire, in addition to other minor territories which gained independence at that time. The Iranian elites of the central plateau reclaimed power by the second century BC under the Parthian Empire.\n\nThe Achaemenid Empire is noted in Western history as the antagonist of the Greek city-states during the Greco-Persian Wars and for the emancipation of the Jewish exiles in Babylon. The historical mark of the empire went far beyond its territorial and military influences and included cultural, social, technological and religious influences as well. Despite the lasting conflict between the two states, many Athenians adopted Achaemenid customs in their daily lives in a reciprocal cultural exchange, some being employed by or allied to the Persian kings. The impact of Cyrus's edict is mentioned in Judeo-Christian texts, and the empire was instrumental in the spread of Zoroastrianism as far east as China. The empire also set the tone for the politics, heritage and history of Iran (also officially known as Persia).\n\nThe Achaemenid Empire was created by nomadic Persians. The name \"Persia\" is a Greek and Latin pronunciation of the native word referring to the country of the people originating from Persis (Old Persian: , \"Pārsa\"), their home territory located north of the Persian Gulf in southwestern Iran.\n\nThe Achaemenid Empire was not the first Iranian empire, as by 6th century BC another group of ancient Iranian peoples had already established the short-lived Median Empire. The Medes had originally been the dominant Iranian group in the region, freeing themselves of Assyrian domination and rising to power at the end of the seventh century BC, incorporating the Persians into their empire.\n\nThe Iranian peoples had arrived in the region of what is today Iran c. 1000 BC and had for a number of centuries fallen under the domination of the Neo-Assyrian Empire (911–609 BC), based in northern Mesopotamia. However, the Medes (together with the Scythians, Babylonians), Cimmerians, Persians, and Chaldeans played a major role in the overthrow of the Assyrian empire and establishment of the first Persian empire.\n\nThe term \"Achaemenid\" means \"of the family of the Achaemenis/Achaemenes\" ( \"Haxāmaniš\"; a bahuvrihi compound translating to \"having a friend's mind\"). Despite the derivation of the name, Achaemenes was himself a minor seventh-century ruler of the Anshan in southwestern Iran, and a vassal of Assyria. It was not until the time of the emperor Cyrus the Great (Cyrus II of Persia), a descendant of Achaemenes, that the Achaemenid Empire developed the prestige of an empire and set out to incorporate the existing empires of the ancient east, becoming the vast Persian Empire of ancient legend.\n\nAt some point in 550 BC, Cyrus rose in rebellion against the Medes (most likely due to their mismanagement of Persis), eventually conquering the Medes and creating the first Persian empire. Cyrus the Great utilized his tactical genius, as well as his understanding of the socio-political conditions governing his territories, to eventually incorporate into the Empire neighbouring Lydia and the Neo-Babylonian Empire, also leading the way for his successor, Cambyses II, to venture into Egypt and defeat the Twenty-sixth Dynasty of Egypt.\n\nCyrus the Great's political acumen was reflected in his management of his newly formed empire, as the Persian Empire became the first to attempt to govern many different ethnic groups on the principle of equal responsibilities and rights for all people, so long as subjects paid their taxes and kept the peace. Additionally, the king agreed not to interfere with the local customs, religions, and trades of its subject states, a unique quality that eventually won Cyrus the support of the Babylonians. This system of management ultimately became an issue for the Persians, as with a larger empire came the need for order and control, leading to expenditure of resources and mobilization of troops to quell local rebellions, and weakening the central power of the king. By the time of Darius III, this disorganization had almost led to a disunited realm.\n\nThe Persians from whom Cyrus hailed were originally nomadic pastoralists in the western Iranian Plateau and by 850 BC were calling themselves the \"Parsa\" and their constantly shifting territory \"Parsua\", for the most part localized around Persis. As Persians gained power, they developed the infrastructure to support their growing influence, including creation of a capital named Pasargadae and an opulent city named Persepolis.\nBegun during the rule of Darius I \"the Great\" and completed some 100 years later, Persepolis was a symbol of the empire serving both as a ceremonial centre and a centre of government. It had a special set of gradually progressive stairways named \"All Countries\" around which carved relief decoration depicted scenes of heroism, hunting, natural themes, and presentation of the gifts to the Achaemenid kings by their various subjects, possibly during the spring festival, Nowruz. The core structure was composed of a multitude of square rooms or halls, the biggest of which was called \"Apadana\". Tall, decorated columns welcomed visitors and emphasized the height of the structure. Later on, Darius also utilized Susa and Ecbatana as his governmental centres, developing them to a similar metropolitan status.\n\nAccounts of the Achaemenid family tree can be derived from either documented Greek or Roman accounts, or from existing documented Persian accounts such as those found in the Behistun Inscription. However, since most existing accounts of this vast empire are in works of Greek philosophers and historians, and since many of the original Persian documents are lost, not to mention being subject to varying scholarly views on their origin and possible motivations behind them, it is difficult to create a definitive and completely objective list. Nonetheless, it is clear that Cyrus and Darius were critical in the expansion of the empire. Cyrus is often believed to be the son of Cambyses I, grandson of Cyrus I, the father of Cambyses II, and a relative of Darius through a shared ancestor, Teispes. Cyrus the Great is also believed to have been a family member (possibly grandson) of the Median king Astyages through his mother, Mandane of Media. A minority of scholars argue that perhaps Achaemenes was a retrograde creation of Darius in order to reconcile his connection with Cyrus after gaining power.\n\nAncient Greek writers provide some legendary information about Achaemenes by calling his tribe the \"Pasargadae\" and stating that he was \"raised by an eagle\". Plato, when writing about the Persians, identified Achaemenes with Perses, ancestor of the Persians in Greek mythology. According to Plato, Achaemenes was the same person as Perses, a son of the Ethiopian queen Andromeda and the Greek hero Perseus, and a grandson of Zeus. Later writers believed that Achaemenes and Perseus were different people, and that Perses was an ancestor of the king. This account further confirms that Achaemenes could well have been a significant Anshan leader and an ancestor of Cyrus the Great. Regardless, both Cyrus the Great and Darius the Great were related, prominent kings of Persia, under whose rule the empire expanded to include much of the ancient world.\n\nThe empire took its unified form with a central administration around Pasargadae erected by Cyrus the Great. The empire ended up conquering and enlarging the Median Empire to include many more territories, for example in Europe, the Caucasus, Asia Minor, Egypt, and Central Asia. During the reigns of Darius I and his son Xerxes I it engaged in military conflict with some of the major city-states of Ancient Greece, and although it came close to defeating the Greek army, this war ultimately led to the empire's overthrow.\n\nIn 559 BC, Cambyses I the Elder was succeeded as the king of Anšān by his son Cyrus the Great, who also succeeded the still-living Arsames as the King of Persia, thus reuniting the two realms. Cyrus is considered to be the first true king of the Persian Empire, as his predecessors were subservient to the Medes. Cyrus the Great conquered Media, Lydia, and Babylon. Cyrus was politically shrewd, modelling himself as the \"saviour\" of conquered nations, often allowing displaced people to return, and giving his subjects freedom to practice local customs. To reinforce this image, he instituted policies of religious freedom, and restored temples and other infrastructure in the newly acquired cities (Most notably the Jewish inhabitants of Babylon, as recorded in the Cyrus Cylinder and the Tanakh). As a result of his tolerant policies he came to be known by those of the Jewish faith as \"the anointed of the Lord.\"\n\nHis immediate successors were less successful. Cyrus' son Cambyses II conquered Egypt in 525 BC, but died in July 522 BC during a revolt led by a sacerdotal clan that had lost its power following Cyrus' conquest of Media. The cause of his death remains uncertain, although it may have been the result of an accident.\n\nAccording to Herodotus, Cambyses II had originally ventured into Egypt to take revenge for the pharaoh Amasis's trickery when he sent a fake Egyptian bride whose family Amasis had murdered, instead of his own daughter, to wed Cambyses II. Additionally negative reports of mistreatment caused by Amasis, given by Phanes of Halicarnassus, a wise counsellor serving Amasis, further bolstered Cambyses's resolve to venture into Egypt. Amasis died before Cambyses II could face him, but his successor Psamtik III was defeated by Cambyses II in the Battle of Pelusium.\n\nWhile Cambyses II was in Egypt, the Zoroastrian priests, whom Herodotus called Magi, usurped the throne for one of their own, Gaumata, who then pretended to be Cambyses II's younger brother Bardiya (Greek: \"Smerdis\" or \"Tanaoxares/Tanyoxarkes\"), who had been assassinated some three years earlier. Owing to the strict rule of Cambyses II, especially his stance on taxation, and his long absence in Egypt, \"the whole people, Perses, Medes and all the other nations,\" acknowledged the usurper, especially as he granted a remission of taxes for three years. Cambyses II himself would not be able to quell the imposters, as he died on the way back from Egypt.\n\nThe claim that Gaumata had impersonated Bardiya (Smerdis), is derived from Darius the Great and the records at the Behistun Inscription. Historians are divided over the possibility that the story of the impostor was invented by Darius as justification for his coup. Darius made a similar claim when he later captured Babylon, announcing that the Babylonian king was not, in fact, Nebuchadnezzar III, but an impostor named Nidintu-bel.\n\nAccording to the Behistun Inscription, Gaumata ruled for seven months before being overthrown in 522 BC by Darius the Great (Darius I) (Old Persian \"Dāryavuš\", \"who holds firm the good\", also known as \"Darayarahush\" or Darius the Great). The Magi, though persecuted, continued to exist, and a year following the death of the first pseudo-Smerdis (Gaumata), saw a second pseudo-Smerdis (named Vahyazdāta) attempt a coup. The coup, though initially successful, failed.\n\nHerodotus writes that the native leadership debated the best form of government for the empire. It was agreed that an oligarchy would divide them against one another, and democracy would bring about mob rule resulting in a charismatic leader resuming the monarchy. Therefore, they decided a new monarch was in order, particularly since \"they\" were in a position to choose him. Darius I was chosen monarch from among the leaders. He was cousin to Cambyses II and Bardiya (Smerdis), claiming Ariaramnes as his ancestor.\n\nThe Achaemenids thereafter consolidated areas firmly under their control. It was Cyrus the Great and Darius the Great who, by sound and far-sighted administrative planning, brilliant military manoeuvring, and a humanistic world view, established the greatness of the Achaemenids and, in less than thirty years, raised them from an obscure tribe to a world power. It was during the reign of Darius the Great (Darius I) that Persepolis was built (518–516 BC) and which would serve as capital for several generations of Achaemenid kings. Ecbatana (\"Hagmatāna\" \"City of Gatherings\", modern: Hamadan) in Media was greatly expanded during this period and served as the summer capital.\n\nEver since the Macedonian king Amyntas I surrendered his country to the Persians in about 512–511, Macedonians and Persians were strangers no more as well. Subjugation of Macedonia was part of Persian military operations initiated by Darius the Great (521–486) in 513 – after immense preparations – a huge Achaemenid army invaded the Balkans and tried to defeat the European Scythians roaming to the north of the Danube river. Darius' army subjugated several Thracian peoples, and virtually all other regions that touch the European part of the Black Sea, such as parts of nowadays Bulgaria, Romania, Ukraine, and Russia, before it returned to Asia Minor. Darius left in Europe one of his commanders named Megabazus whose task was to accomplish conquests in the Balkans. The Persian troops subjugated gold-rich Thrace, the coastal Greek cities, as well as defeating and conquering the powerful Paeonians. Finally, Megabazus sent envoys to Amyntas, demanding acceptance of Persian domination, which the Macedonians did. The Balkans provided many soldiers for the multi-ethnic Achaemenid army. Many of the Macedonian and Persian elite intermarried, such as the Persian official Bubares who married Amyntas' daughter, Gygaea. Family ties the Macedonian rulers Amyntas and Alexander enjoyed with Bubares ensured them good relations with the Persian kings Darius and Xerxes I. The Persian invasion led indirectly to Macedonia's rise in power and Persia had some common interests in the Balkans; with Persian aid, the Macedonians stood to gain much at the expense of some Balkan tribes such as the Paeonians and Greeks. All in all, the Macedonians were \"willing and useful Persian allies. Macedonian soldiers fought against Athens and Sparta in Xerxes' army. The Persians referred to both Greeks and Macedonians as \"Yauna\" (\"Ionians\", their term for \"Greeks\"), and to Macedonians specifically as \"Yaunã Takabara\" or \"Greeks with hats that look like shields\", possibly referring to the Macedonian kausia hat.\nBy the 5th century BC the Kings of Persia were either ruling over or had subordinated territories encompassing not just all of the Persian Plateau and all of the territories formerly held by the Assyrian Empire (Mesopotamia, the Levant, Cyprus and Egypt), but beyond this all of Anatolia and Armenia, as well as the Southern Caucasus and parts of the North Caucasus, Azerbaijan, Uzbekistan, Tajikistan, all of Bulgaria, Paeonia, Thrace and Macedonia to the north and west, most of the Black Sea coastal regions, parts of Central Asia as far as the Aral Sea, the Oxus and Jaxartes to the north and north-east, the Hindu Kush and the western Indus basin (corresponding to modern Afghanistan and Pakistan) to the far east, parts of northern Arabia to the south, and parts of northern Libya to the south-west, and parts of Oman, China, and the UAE.\n\nThe Ionian Revolt in 499 BC, and associated revolts in Aeolis, Doris, Cyprus and Caria, were military rebellions by several regions of Asia Minor against Persian rule, lasting from 499 to 493 BC. At the heart of the rebellion was the dissatisfaction of the Greek cities of Asia Minor with the tyrants appointed by Persia to rule them, along with the individual actions of two Milesian tyrants, Histiaeus and Aristagoras. In 499 BC, the then tyrant of Miletus, Aristagoras, launched a joint expedition with the Persian satrap Artaphernes to conquer Naxos, in an attempt to bolster his position in Miletus (both financially and in terms of prestige). The mission was a debacle, and sensing his imminent removal as tyrant, Aristagoras chose to incite the whole of Ionia into rebellion against the Persian king Darius the Great.\n\nThe Persians continued to reduce the cities along the west coast that still held out against them, before finally imposing a peace settlement in 493 BC on Ionia that was generally considered to be both just and fair. The Ionian Revolt constituted the first major conflict between Greece and the Achaemenid Empire, and as such represents the first phase of the Greco-Persian Wars. Asia Minor had been brought back into the Persian fold, but Darius had vowed to punish Athens and Eretria for their support of the revolt. Moreover, seeing that the political situation in Greece posed a continued threat to the stability of his Empire, he decided to embark on the conquest of all of Greece. The first campaign of the invasion was to bring the territories in the Balkan peninsula back within the empire. The Persian grip over these territories had loosened following the Ionian Revolt. In 492 BC, the Persian general Mardonius re-subjugated Thrace and made Macedon a fully subordinate part of the empire; it had been a vassal as early as the late 6th century BC, but retained a great deal of autonomy. However, in 490 BC the Persian forces were defeated by the Athenians at the Battle of Marathon and Darius would die before having the chance to launch an invasion of Greece.\nXerxes I (485–465 BC, Old Persian \"Xšayārša\" \"Hero Among Kings\"), son of Darius I, vowed to complete the job. He organized a massive invasion aiming to conquer Greece. His army entered Greece from the north, meeting little or no resistance through Macedonia and Thessaly, but was delayed by a small Greek force for three days at Thermopylae. A simultaneous naval battle at Artemisium was tactically indecisive as large storms destroyed ships from both sides. The battle was stopped prematurely when the Greeks received news of the defeat at Thermopylae and retreated. The battle was a strategic victory for the Persians, giving them uncontested control of Artemisium and the Aegean Sea.\n\nFollowing his victory at the Battle of Thermopylae, Xerxes sacked the evacuated city of Athens and prepared to meet the Greeks at the strategic Isthmus of Corinth and the Saronic Gulf. In 480 BC the Greeks won a decisive victory over the Persian fleet at the Battle of Salamis and forced Xerxes to retire to Sardis. The land army which he left in Greece under Mardonius retook Athens but was eventually destroyed in 479 BC at the Battle of Plataea. The final defeat of the Persians at Mycale encouraged the Greek cities of Asia to revolt, and the Persians lost all of their territories in Europe; Macedonia once again became independent.\n\nAfter Xerxes I was assassinated, he was succeeded by his eldest son Artaxerxes I. It was during his reign that Elamite ceased to be the language of government, and Aramaic gained in importance. It was probably during this reign that the solar calendar was introduced as the national calendar. Under Artaxerxes I, Zoroastrianism became the \"de facto\" religion of state.\n\nAfter Persia had been defeated at Battle of Eurymedon (469 BC or 466 BC), military action between Greece and Persia was halted. When Artaxerxes I took power, he introduced a new Persian strategy of weakening the Athenians by funding their enemies in Greece. This indirectly caused the Athenians to move the treasury of the Delian League from the island of Delos to the Athenian acropolis. This funding practice inevitably prompted renewed fighting in 450 BC, where the Greeks attacked at the Battle of Cyprus. After Cimon's failure to attain much in this expedition, the Peace of Callias was agreed between Athens, Argos and Persia in 449 BC.\n\nArtaxerxes I offered asylum to Themistocles, who was the winner of the Battle of Salamis, after Themistocles was ostracized from Athens. Also, Artaxerxes I gave him Magnesia, Myus, and Lampsacus to maintain him in bread, meat, and wine. In addition, Artaxerxes I gave him Palaescepsis to provide him with clothes, and he also gave him Percote with bedding for his house.\nWhen Artaxerxes died in 424 BC at Susa, his body was taken to the tomb already built for him in the Naqsh-e Rustam Necropolis. It was Persian tradition that kings begin constructing their own tombs while they were still alive. Artaxerxes I was immediately succeeded by his eldest son Xerxes II, who was the only legitimate son of Artaxerxes. However, after a few days on the throne, he was assassinated while drunk by Pharnacyas and Menostanes on the orders of his illegitimate brother: Sogdianus who apparently had gained the support of his regions. He reigned for six months and fifteen days before being captured by his half-brother, Ochus, who had rebelled against him. Sogdianus was executed by being suffocated in ash because Ochus had promised he would not die by the sword, by poison or by hunger. Ochus then took the royal name Darius II. Darius' ability to defend his position on the throne ended the short power vacuum.\n\nFrom 412 BC Darius II, at the insistence of Tissaphernes, gave support first to Athens, then to Sparta, but in 407 BC, Darius' son Cyrus the Younger was appointed to replace Tissaphernes and aid was given entirely to Sparta which finally defeated Athens in 404 BC. In the same year, Darius fell ill and died in Babylon. His death gave an Egyptian rebel named Amyrtaeus the opportunity to throw off Persian control over Egypt. At his death bed, Darius' Babylonian wife Parysatis pleaded with him to have her second eldest son Cyrus (the Younger) crowned, but Darius refused. Queen Parysatis favoured Cyrus more than her eldest son Artaxerxes II. Plutarch relates (probably on the authority of Ctesias) that the displaced Tissaphernes came to the new king on his coronation day to warn him that his younger brother Cyrus (the Younger) was preparing to assassinate him during the ceremony. Artaxerxes had Cyrus arrested and would have had him executed if their mother Parysatis had not intervened. Cyrus was then sent back as Satrap of Lydia, where he prepared an armed rebellion. Cyrus hired an army of Ten Thousand Greek mercenaries and made his way deeper into Persia. The army of Cyrus was stopped by the royal Persian army of Artaxerxes II at Cunaxa in 401 BC, where Cyrus was killed. The Ten Thousand Greek Mercenaries including Xenophon were now deep in Persian territory and were at risk of attack. So they searched for others to offer their services to but eventually had to return to Greece.\n\nArtaxerxes II was the longest reigning of the Achaemenid kings and it was during this 45-year period of relative peace and stability that many of the monuments of the era were constructed. Artaxerxes moved the capital back to Persepolis, which he greatly extended. Also the summer capital at Ecbatana was lavishly extended with gilded columns and roof tiles of silver and copper. The extraordinary innovation of the Zoroastrian shrines can also be dated to his reign, and it was probably during this period that Zoroastrianism spread from Armenia throughout Asia Minor and the Levant. The construction of temples, though serving a religious purpose, was not a purely selfless act, as they also served as an important source of income. From the Babylonian kings, the Achaemenids had taken over the concept of a mandatory temple tax, a one-tenth tithe which all inhabitants paid to the temple nearest to their land or other source of income. A share of this income called the \"Quppu Sha Sharri\", \"king's chest\"—an ingenious institution originally introduced by Nabonidus—was then turned over to the ruler. In retrospect, Artaxerxes is generally regarded as an amiable man who lacked the moral fiber to be a really successful ruler. However, six centuries later Ardeshir I, founder of the second Persian Empire, would consider himself Artaxerxes' successor, a grand testimony to the importance of Artaxerxes to the Persian psyche.\nArtaxerxes II became involved in a war with Persia's erstwhile allies, the Spartans, who, under Agesilaus II, invaded Asia Minor. In order to redirect the Spartans' attention to Greek affairs, Artaxerxes II subsidized their enemies: in particular the Athenians, Thebans and Corinthians. These subsidies helped to engage the Spartans in what would become known as the Corinthian War. In 387 BC, Artaxerxes II betrayed his allies and came to an arrangement with Sparta, and in the Treaty of Antalcidas he forced his erstwhile allies to come to terms. This treaty restored control of the Greek cities of Ionia and Aeolis on the Anatolian coast to the Persians, while giving Sparta dominance on the Greek mainland. In 385 BC he campaigned against the Cadusians. Although successful against the Greeks, Artaxerxes II had more trouble with the Egyptians, who had successfully revolted against him at the beginning of his reign. An attempt to reconquer Egypt in 373 BC was completely unsuccessful, but in his waning years the Persians did manage to defeat a joint Egyptian–Spartan effort to conquer Phoenicia. He quashed the Revolt of the Satraps in 372–362 BC. He is reported to have had a number of wives. His main wife was Stateira, until she was poisoned by Artaxerxes II's mother Parysatis in about 400 BC. Another chief wife was a Greek woman of Phocaea named Aspasia (not the same as the concubine of Pericles). Artaxerxes II is said to have had more than 115 sons from 350 wives.\n\nIn 358 BC Artaxerxes II died and was succeeded by his son Artaxerxes III. In 355 BC, Artaxerxes III forced Athens to conclude a peace which required the city's forces to leave Asia Minor and to acknowledge the independence of its rebellious allies. Artaxerxes started a campaign against the rebellious Cadusians, but he managed to appease both of the Cadusian kings. One individual who successfully emerged from this campaign was Darius Codomannus, who later occupied the Persian throne as Darius III.\n\nArtaxerxes III then ordered the disbanding of all the satrapal armies of Asia Minor, as he felt that they could no longer guarantee peace in the west and was concerned that these armies equipped the western satraps with the means to revolt. The order was however ignored by Artabazos II of Phrygia, who asked for the help of Athens in a rebellion against the king. Athens sent assistance to Sardis. Orontes of Mysia also supported Artabazos and the combined forces managed to defeat the forces sent by Artaxerxes III in 354 BC. However, in 353 BC, they were defeated by Artaxerxes III's army and were disbanded. Orontes was pardoned by the king, while Artabazos fled to the safety of the court of Philip II of Macedon. In around 351 BC, Artaxerxes embarked on a campaign to recover Egypt, which had revolted under his father, Artaxerxes II. At the same time a rebellion had broken out in Asia Minor, which, being supported by Thebes, threatened to become serious. Levying a vast army, Artaxerxes marched into Egypt, and engaged Nectanebo II. After a year of fighting the Egyptian Pharaoh, Nectanebo inflicted a crushing defeat on the Persians with the support of mercenaries led by the Greek generals Diophantus and Lamius. Artaxerxes was compelled to retreat and postpone his plans to reconquer Egypt. Soon after this defeat, there were rebellions in Phoenicia, Asia Minor and Cyprus.\nIn 343 BC, Artaxerxes committed responsibility for the suppression of the Cyprian rebels to Idrieus, prince of Caria, who employed 8,000 Greek mercenaries and forty triremes, commanded by Phocion the Athenian, and Evagoras, son of the elder Evagoras, the Cypriot monarch. Idrieus succeeded in reducing Cyprus. Artaxerxes initiated a counter-offensive against Sidon by commanding Belesys, satrap of Syria, and Mezseus, satrap of Cilicia, to invade the city and to keep the Phoenicians in check. Both satraps suffered crushing defeats at the hands of Tennes, the Sidonese king, who was aided by 40,000 Greek mercenaries sent to him by Nectanebo II and commanded by Mentor of Rhodes. As a result, the Persian forces were driven out of Phoenicia.\n\nAfter this, Artaxerxes personally led an army of 330,000 men against Sidon. Artaxerxes' army comprised 300,000 foot soldiers, 30,000 cavalry, 300 triremes, and 500 transports or provision ships. After gathering this army, he sought assistance from the Greeks. Though refused aid by Athens and Sparta, he succeeded in obtaining a thousand Theban heavy-armed hoplites under Lacrates, three thousand Argives under Nicostratus, and six thousand Æolians, Ionians, and Dorians from the Greek cities of Asia Minor. This Greek support was numerically small, amounting to no more than 10,000 men, but it formed, together with the Greek mercenaries from Egypt who went over to him afterwards, the force on which he placed his chief reliance, and to which the ultimate success of his expedition was mainly due. The approach of Artaxerxes sufficiently weakened the resolution of Tennes that he endeavoured to purchase his own pardon by delivering up 100 principal citizens of Sidon into the hands of the Persian king, and then admitting Artaxerxes within the defences of the town. Artaxerxes had the 100 citizens transfixed with javelins, and when 500 more came out as supplicants to seek his mercy, Artaxerxes consigned them to the same fate. Sidon was then burnt to the ground, either by Artaxerxes or by the Sidonian citizens. Forty thousand people died in the conflagration. Artaxerxes sold the ruins at a high price to speculators, who calculated on reimbursing themselves by the treasures which they hoped to dig out from among the ashes. Tennes was later put to death by Artaxerxes. Artaxerxes later sent Jews who supported the revolt to Hyrcania on the south coast of the Caspian Sea.\n\nThe reduction of Sidon was followed closely by the invasion of Egypt. In 343 BC, Artaxerxes, in addition to his 330,000 Persians, had now a force of 14,000 Greeks furnished by the Greek cities of Asia Minor: 4,000 under Mentor, consisting of the troops that he had brought to the aid of Tennes from Egypt; 3,000 sent by Argos; and 1000 from Thebes. He divided these troops into three bodies, and placed at the head of each a Persian and a Greek. The Greek commanders were Lacrates of Thebes, Mentor of Rhodes and Nicostratus of Argos while the Persians were led by Rhossaces, Aristazanes, and Bagoas, the chief of the eunuchs. Nectanebo II resisted with an army of 100,000 of whom 20,000 were Greek mercenaries. Nectanebo II occupied the Nile and its various branches with his large navy.\n\nThe character of the country, intersected by numerous canals and full of strongly fortified towns, was in his favour and Nectanebo II might have been expected to offer a prolonged, if not even a successful, resistance. However, he lacked good generals, and, over-confident in his own powers of command, he was out-manoeuvred by the Greek mercenary generals and his forces were eventually defeated by the combined Persian armies at the Battle of Pelusium (343 BC). After his defeat, Nectanebo hastily fled to Memphis, leaving the fortified towns to be defended by their garrisons. These garrisons consisted of partly Greek and partly Egyptian troops; between whom jealousies and suspicions were easily sown by the Persian leaders. As a result, the Persians were able to rapidly reduce numerous towns across Lower Egypt and were advancing upon Memphis when Nectanebo decided to quit the country and flee southwards to Ethiopia. The Persian army completely routed the Egyptians and occupied the Lower Delta of the Nile. Following Nectanebo fleeing to Ethiopia, all of Egypt submitted to Artaxerxes. The Jews in Egypt were sent either to Babylon or to the south coast of the Caspian Sea, the same location that the Jews of Phoenicia had earlier been sent.\n\nAfter this victory over the Egyptians, Artaxerxes had the city walls destroyed, started a reign of terror, and set about looting all the temples. Persia gained a significant amount of wealth from this looting. Artaxerxes also raised high taxes and attempted to weaken Egypt enough that it could never revolt against Persia. For the 10 years that Persia controlled Egypt, believers in the native religion were persecuted and sacred books were stolen. Before he returned to Persia, he appointed Pherendares as satrap of Egypt. With the wealth gained from his reconquering Egypt, Artaxerxes was able to amply reward his mercenaries. He then returned to his capital having successfully completed his invasion of Egypt.\n\nAfter his success in Egypt, Artaxerxes returned to Persia and spent the next few years effectively quelling insurrections in various parts of the Empire so that a few years after his conquest of Egypt, the Persian Empire was firmly under his control. Egypt remained a part of the Persian Empire until Alexander the Great's conquest of Egypt.\n\nAfter the conquest of Egypt, there were no more revolts or rebellions against Artaxerxes. Mentor and Bagoas, the two generals who had most distinguished themselves in the Egyptian campaign, were advanced to posts of the highest importance. Mentor, who was governor of the entire Asiatic seaboard, was successful in reducing to subjection many of the chiefs who during the recent troubles had rebelled against Persian rule. In the course of a few years Mentor and his forces were able to bring the whole Asian Mediterranean coast into complete submission and dependence.\n\nBagoas went back to the Persian capital with Artaxerxes, where he took a leading role in the internal administration of the Empire and maintained tranquillity throughout the rest of the Empire. During the last six years of the reign of Artaxerxes III, the Persian Empire was governed by a vigorous and successful government.\n\nThe Persian forces in Ionia and Lycia regained control of the Aegean and the Mediterranean Sea and took over much of Athens' former island empire. In response, Isocrates of Athens started giving speeches calling for a 'crusade against the barbarians' but there was not enough strength left in any of the Greek city-states to answer his call.\n\nAlthough there weren't any rebellions in the Persian Empire itself, the growing power and territory of Philip II of Macedon in Macedon (against which Demosthenes was in vain warning the Athenians) attracted the attention of Artaxerxes. In response, he ordered that Persian influence was to be used to check and constrain the rising power and influence of the Macedonian kingdom. In 340 BC, a Persian force was dispatched to assist the Thracian prince, Cersobleptes, to maintain his independence. Sufficient effective aid was given to the city of Perinthus that the numerous and well-appointed army with which Philip had commenced his siege of the city was compelled to give up the attempt. By the last year of Artaxerxes' rule, Philip II already had plans in place for an invasion of the Persian Empire, which would crown his career, but the Greeks would not unite with him.\n\nIn 338 BC Artaxerxes was poisoned by Bagoas with the assistance of a physician.\n\nArtaxerxes III was succeeded by Artaxerxes IV Arses, who before he could act was also poisoned by Bagoas. Bagoas is further said to have killed not only all Arses' children, but many of the other princes of the land. Bagoas then placed Darius III, a nephew of Artaxerxes IV, on the throne. Darius III, previously Satrap of Armenia, personally forced Bagoas to swallow poison. In 334 BC, when Darius was just succeeding in subduing Egypt again, Alexander and his battle-hardened troops invaded Asia Minor.\n\nAlexander the Great (Alexander III of Macedon) defeated the Persian armies at Granicus (334 BC), followed by Issus (333 BC), and lastly at Gaugamela (331 BC). Afterwards, he marched on Susa and Persepolis which surrendered in early 330 BC. From Persepolis, Alexander headed north to Pasargadae where he visited the tomb of Cyrus, the burial of the man whom he had heard of from the \"Cyropedia\".\n\nIn the ensuing chaos created by Alexander's invasion of Persia, Cyrus's tomb was broken into and most of its luxuries were looted. When Alexander reached the tomb, he was horrified by the manner in which it had been treated, and questioned the Magi, putting them on trial. By some accounts, Alexander's decision to put the Magi on trial was more an attempt to undermine their influence and display his own power than a show of concern for Cyrus's tomb. Regardless, Alexander the Great ordered Aristobulus to improve the tomb's condition and restore its interior, showing respect for Cyrus. From there he headed to Ecbatana, where Darius III had sought refuge.\n\nDarius III was taken prisoner by Bessus, his Bactrian satrap and kinsman. As Alexander approached, Bessus had his men murder Darius III and then declared himself Darius' successor, as Artaxerxes V, before retreating into Central Asia leaving Darius' body in the road to delay Alexander, who brought it to Persepolis for an honourable funeral. Bessus would then create a coalition of his forces, in order to create an army to defend against Alexander. Before Bessus could fully unite with his confederates at the eastern part of the empire, Alexander, fearing the danger of Bessus gaining control, found him, put him on trial in a Persian court under his control, and ordered his execution in a \"cruel and barbarous manner.\"\n\nAlexander generally kept the original Achaemenid administrative structure, leading some scholars to dub him as \"the last of the Achaemenids\". Upon Alexander's death in 323 BC, his empire was divided among his generals, the Diadochi, resulting in a number of smaller states. The largest of these, which held sway over the Iranian plateau, was the Seleucid Empire, ruled by Alexander's general Seleucus I Nicator. Native Iranian rule would be restored by the Parthians of northeastern Iran over the course of the 2nd century BC.\n\nIstakhr, one of the vassal kingdoms of the Parthian Empire, would be overthrown by Papak, a priest of the temple there. Papak's son, Ardašir I, who named himself in remembrance of Artaxerxes II, would revolt against the Parthians, eventually defeating them and establishing the Sassanid Empire or as it is known the second Persian Empire.\n\nThe Achaemenid line would be carried on through the Kingdom of Pontus, based in the Pontus region of northern Asia Minor. This Pontic Kingdom, a state of Persian origin, may even have been directly related to Darius the Great and the Achaemenid dynasty. It was founded by Mithridates I in 281 BC and lasted until its conquest by the Roman Republic in 63 BC. The kingdom grew to its largest extent under Mithridates VI the Great, who conquered Colchis, Cappadocia, Bithynia, the Greek colonies of the Tauric Chersonesos and for a brief time the Roman province of Asia. Thus, this Persian dynasty managed to survive and prosper in the Hellenistic world while the main Persian Empire had fallen.\nBoth the later dynasties of the Parthians and Sasanians would on occasion claim Achaemenid descent. Recently there has been some corroboration for the Parthian claim to Achaemenid ancestry via the possibility of an inherited disease (neurofibromatosis) demonstrated by the physical descriptions of rulers and from evidence of familial disease on ancient coinage.\n\nPart of the cause of the Empire's decline had been the heavy tax burden put upon the state, which eventually led to economic decline. An estimate of the tribute imposed on the subject nations was up to U.S. $180M per year. This does not include the material goods and supplies that were supplied as taxes. After the high overhead of government – the military, the bureaucracy, whatever the satraps could safely dip into the coffers for themselves – this money went into the royal treasury. According to Diodorus, at Persepolis, Alexander III found some 180,000 Attic talents of silver besides the additional treasure the Macedonians were carrying that already had been seized in Damascus by Parmenion. This amounted to U.S. $2.7B. On top of this, Darius III had taken 8,000 talents with him on his flight to the north. Alexander put this static hoard back into the economy, and upon his death some 130,000 talents had been spent on the building of cities, dockyards, temples, and the payment of the troops, besides the ordinary government expenses. Additionally, one of the satraps, Harpalus, had made off to Greece with some 6,000 talents, which Athens used to rebuild its economy after seizing it during the struggles with the Corinthian League. Due to the flood of money from Alexander's hoard entering Greece, however, a disruption in the economy occurred, in agriculture, banking, rents, the great increase in mercenary soldiers that cash allowed the wealthy, and an increase in piracy.\n\nAnother factor contributing to the decline of the Empire, in the period following Xerxes, was its failure to ever mold the many subject nations into a whole; the creation of a national identity was never attempted. This lack of cohesion eventually affected the efficiency of the military.\n\nCyrus the Great founded the empire as a multi-state empire, governed from four capital cities: Pasargadae, Babylon, Susa and Ecbatana. The Achaemenids allowed a certain amount of regional autonomy in the form of the satrapy system. A satrapy was an administrative unit, usually organized on a geographical basis. A 'satrap' (governor) was the governor who administered the region, a 'general' supervised military recruitment and ensured order, and a 'state secretary' kept the official records. The general and the state secretary reported directly to the satrap as well as the central government. At differing times, there were between 20 and 30 satrapies.\n\nCyrus the Great created an organized army including the Immortals unit, consisting of 10,000 highly trained soldiers Cyrus also formed an innovative postal system throughout the empire, based on several relay stations called Chapar Khaneh.\n\nThe Persian daric was the first gold coin which, along with a similar silver coin, the siglos, introduced the bimetallic monetary standard of the Achaemenid Persian Empire which has continued till today. This was accomplished by Darius the Great, who reinforced the empire and expanded Persepolis as a ceremonial capital; he revolutionized the economy by placing it on the silver and gold coinage.\n\nDarius also introduced a regulated and sustainable tax system that was precisely tailored to each satrapy, based on their supposed productivity and their economic potential. For instance, Babylon was assessed for the highest amount and for a startling mixture of commodities – 1000 silver talents, four months supply of food for the army. India was clearly already fabled for its gold; Egypt was known for the wealth of its crops; it was to be the granary of the Persian Empire (as later of Rome's) and was required to provide 120,000 measures of grain in addition to 700 talents of silver. This was exclusively a tax levied on subject peoples. \nOther accomplishments of Darius' reign included codification of the data, a universal legal system, and construction of a new capital at Persepolis.\n\nUnder the Achaemenids, the trade was extensive and there was an efficient infrastructure that facilitated the exchange of commodities in the far reaches of the empire. Tariffs on trade were one of the empire's main sources of revenue, along with agriculture and tribute.\n\nThe satrapies were linked by a 2,500-kilometer highway, the most impressive stretch being the Royal Road from Susa to Sardis, built by command of Darius I. It featured stations and caravanserais at specific intervals. The relays of mounted couriers (the angarium) could reach the remotest of areas in fifteen days. Herodotus observes that \"there is nothing in the world that travels faster than these Persian couriers. Neither snow, nor rain, nor heat, nor gloom of night stays these courageous couriers from the swift completion of their appointed rounds.\" Despite the relative local independence afforded by the satrapy system, royal inspectors, the \"eyes and ears of the king\", toured the empire and reported on local conditions.\n\nThe practice of slavery in Achaemenid Persia was generally banned, although there is evidence that conquered and/or rebellious armies were sold into captivity. The kings of Achaemenid Persia, especially the founder Cyrus the Great, occasionally declined to adopt slavery, as evidenced by the freeing of the Jews at Babylon, and the construction of Persepolis by paid workers.\n\nDespite its humble origins in Persis, the empire reached an enormous size under the leadership of Cyrus the Great. Cyrus created a multi-state empire where he allowed regional rulers, called the \"satrap\", to rule as his proxy over a certain designated area of his empire called the satrapy. The basic rule of governance was based upon loyalty and obedience of each satrapy to the central power, or the king, and compliance with tax laws. Due to the ethno-cultural diversity of the subject nations under the rule of Persia, its enormous geographic size, and the constant struggle for power by regional competitors, the creation of a professional army was necessary for both maintenance of the peace and to enforce the authority of the king in cases of rebellion and foreign threat. Cyrus managed to create a strong land army, using it to advance in his campaigns in Babylonia, Lydia, and Asia Minor, which after his death was used by his son Cambyses II, in Egypt against Psamtik III. Cyrus would die battling a local Iranian insurgency in the empire, before he could have a chance to develop a naval force. That task would fall to Darius the Great, who would officially give Persians their own royal navy to allow them to engage their enemies on multiple seas of this vast empire, from the Black Sea and the Aegean Sea, to the Persian Gulf, Ionian Sea and the Mediterranean Sea.\n\nThe empire's great armies were, like the empire itself, very diverse, having: Persians, Macedonians, European Thracians, Paeonians, Medes, Achaean Greeks, Cissians, Hyrcanians, Assyrians, Chaldeans, Bactrians, Sacae, Arians, Parthians, Caucasian Albanians, Chorasmians, Sogdians, Gandarians, Dadicae, Caspians, Sarangae, Pactyes, Utians, Mycians, Phoenicians along with the \"Syrians of Palestine\" (likely Judeans), Egyptians, Cyprians, Cilicians, Pamphylians, Lycians, Dorians of Asia, Carians, Ionians, Aegean islanders, Aeolians, Greeks from Pontus, Paricanians, Arabians, Ethiopians of Africa, Ethiopians of Baluchistan, Libyans, Paphlagonians, Ligyes, Matieni, Mariandyni, Cappadocians, Phrygians, Armenians, Lydians, Mysians, Asian Thracians, Lasonii, Milyae, Moschi, Tibareni, Macrones, Mossynoeci, Mares, Colchians, Alarodians, Saspirians, Red Sea islanders, Sagartians, ancient Indians, Eordi, Bottiaei, Chalcidians, Brygians, Pierians, Perrhaebi, Enienes, Dolopes, and Magnesians.\n\nThe Achaemenid infantry consisted of three groups: the Immortals, the Sparabara, and the Takabara, though in the later years of the Achaemenid Empire, the Cardaces, were introduced.\n\nThe Immortals were described by Herodotus as being heavy infantry, led by Hydarnes, that were kept constantly at a strength of exactly 10,000 men. He claimed that the unit's name stemmed from the custom that every killed, seriously wounded, or sick member was immediately replaced with a new one, maintaining the numbers and cohesion of the unit. They had wicker shields, short spears, swords or large daggers, bow and arrow. Underneath their robes they wore scale armour coats. The spear counterbalances of the common soldiery were of silver; to differentiate commanding ranks, the officers' spear butt-spikes were golden. Surviving Achaemenid coloured glazed bricks and carved reliefs represent the Immortals as wearing elaborate robes, hoop earrings and gold jewellery, though these garments and accessories were most likely worn only for ceremonial occasions.\n\nThe Sparabara were usually the first to engage in hand-to-hand combat with the enemy. Although not much is known about them today, it is believed that they were the backbone of the Persian army who formed a shield wall and used their two-metre-long spears to protect more vulnerable troops such as archers from the enemy. The Sparabara were taken from the full members of Persian society, they were trained from childhood to be soldiers and when not called out to fight on campaigns in distant lands they practised hunting on the vast plains of Persia. However, when all was quiet and the Pax Persica held true, the Sparabara returned to normal life farming the land and grazing their herds. Because of this they lacked true professional quality on the battlefield, yet they were well trained and courageous to the point of holding the line in most situations long enough for a counter-attack. They were armoured with quilted linen and carried large rectangular wicker shields as a form of light manoeuvrable defence. This, however, left them at a severe disadvantage against heavily armoured opponents such as the hoplite, and his two-metre-long spear was not able to give the Sparabara ample range to plausibly engage a trained phalanx. The wicker shields were able to effectively stop arrows but not strong enough to protect the soldier from spears. However, the Sparabara could deal with most other infantry, including trained units from the East.\n\nThe Takabara were a rare unit who were a tough type of peltasts. They tended to fight with their own native weapons which would have included a crescent-shaped light wickerwork shield and axes as well as light linen cloth and leather. The Takabara were recruited from territories that incorporated modern Iran.\n\nThe Persian cavalry was crucial for conquering nations, and maintained its importance in the Achaemenid army to the last days of the Achaemenid Empire. The cavalry were separated into four groups. The chariot archers, horse cavalry, the camel cavalry, and the war elephants.\n\nIn the later years of the Achaemenid Empire, the chariot archer had become merely a ceremonial part of the Persian army, yet in the early years of the Empire, their use was widespread. The chariot archers were armed with spears, bows, arrows, swords, and scale armour. The horses were also suited with scale armour similar to scale armour of the Sassanian cataphracts. The chariots would contain imperial symbols and decorations. The horses used by the Achaemenids for cavalry were often suited with scale armour, like most cavalry units. The riders often had the same armour as Infantry units, wicker shields, short spears, swords or large daggers, bow and arrow and scale armour coats. The camel cavalry was different, because the camels and sometimes the riders, were provided little protection against enemies, yet when they were offered protection, they would have spears, swords, bow, arrow, and scale armour. The camel cavalry was first introduced into the Persian army by Cyrus the Great, at the Battle of Thymbra. The elephant was most likely introduced into the Persian army by Darius I after his conquest of the Indus Valley. They may have been used in Greek campaigns by Darius and Xerxes I, but Greek accounts only mention 15 of them being used at the Battle of Gaugamela.\n\nSince its foundation by Cyrus, the Persian empire had been primarily a land empire with a strong army, but void of any actual naval forces. By the 5th century BC, this was to change, as the empire came across Greek, and Egyptian forces, each with their own maritime traditions and capabilities. Darius the Great (Darius I) was the first Achaemenid king to invest in a Persian fleet. Even by then no true \"imperial navy\" had existed either in Greece or Egypt. Persia would become the first empire, under Darius, to inaugurate and deploy the first regular imperial navy. Despite this achievement, the personnel for the imperial navy would not come from Iran, but were often Phoenicians (mostly from Sidon), Egyptians and Greeks chosen by Darius the Great to operate the empire's combat vessels.\n\nAt first the ships were built in Sidon by the Phoenicians; the first Achaemenid ships measured about 40 meters in length and 6 meters in width, able to transport up to 300 Persian troops at any one trip. Soon, other states of the empire were constructing their own ships, each incorporating slight local preferences. The ships eventually found their way to the Persian Gulf. Persian naval forces laid the foundation for a strong Persian maritime presence in the Persian Gulf. Persians were not only stationed on islands in the Persian Gulf, but also had ships often of 100 to 200 capacity patrolling the empire's various rivers including the Karun, Tigris and Nile in the west, as well as the Indus.\nThe Achaemenid navy established bases located along the Karun, and in Bahrain, Oman, and Yemen. The Persian fleet was not only used for peace-keeping purposes along the Karun but also opened the door to trade with India via the Persian Gulf. Darius's navy was in many ways a world power at the time, but it would be Artaxerxes II who in the summer of 397 BC would build a formidable navy, as part of a rearmament which would lead to his decisive victory at Knidos in 394 BC, re-establishing Achaemenid power in Ionia. Artaxerxes II would also utilize his navy to later on quell a rebellion in Egypt.\n\nThe construction material of choice was wood, but some armoured Achaemenid ships had metallic blades on the front, often meant to slice enemy ships using the ship's momentum. Naval ships were also equipped with hooks on the side to grab enemy ships, or to negotiate their position. The ships were propelled by sails or manpower. The ships the Persians created were unique. As far as maritime engagement, the ships were equipped with two mangonels that would launch projectiles such as stones, or flammable substances.\n\nXenophon describes his eye-witness account of a massive military bridge created by joining 37 Persian ships across the Tigris. The Persians utilized each boat's buoyancy, in order to support a connected bridge above which supply could be transferred. Herodotus also gives many accounts of Persians utilizing ships to build bridges.\n\nDarius the Great, in an attempt to subdue the Scythian horsemen north of the Black Sea, crossed over at the Bosphorus, using an enormous bridge made by connecting Achaemenid boats, then marched up to the Danube, crossing it by means of a second boat bridge. The bridge over the Bosphorus essentially connected the nearest tip of Asia to Europe, encompassing at least some 1000 meters of open water if not more. Herodotus describes the spectacle, and calls it the \"bridge of Darius\":\n\nYears later, a similar boat bridge would be constructed by Xerxes the Great (Xerxes I), in his invasion of Greece. Although the Persians failed to capture the Greek city states completely, the tradition of maritime involvement was carried down by the Persian kings, most notably Artaxerxes II. Years later, when Alexander invaded Persia and during his advancement into India, he took a page from the Persian art of war, by having Hephaestion and Perdiccas construct a similar boat-bridge at the Indus river, in India in the spring of 327 BC.\n\nHerodotus, in his mid-5th century BC account of Persian residents of the Pontus, reports that Persian youths, from their fifth year to their twentieth year, were instructed in three things – \"to ride a horse, to draw a bow, and to speak the Truth\".\n\nHe further notes that:\n\nIn Achaemenid Persia, the lie, \"druj\", is considered to be a cardinal sin, and it was punishable by death in some extreme cases. Tablets discovered by archaeologists in the 1930s at the site of Persepolis give us adequate evidence about the love and veneration for the culture of truth during the Achaemenian period. These tablets contain the names of ordinary Persians, mainly traders and warehouse-keepers. According to Professor Stanley Insler of Yale University, as many as 72 names of officials and petty clerks found on these tablets contain the word \"truth\". Thus, says Insler, we have \"Artapana\", protector of truth, \"Artakama\", lover of truth, \"Artamanah\", truth-minded, \"Artafarnah\", possessing splendour of truth, \"Artazusta\", delighting in truth, \"Artastuna\", pillar of truth, \"Artafrida\", prospering the truth and \"Artahunara\", having nobility of truth. It was Darius the Great who laid down the \"ordinance of good regulations\" during his reign. King Darius' testimony about his constant battle against the lie is found in cuneiform inscriptions. Carved high up in the Behistun mountain on the road to Kermanshah, Darius the Great (Darius I) testifies:\n\nDarius had his hands full dealing with large-scale rebellion which broke out throughout the empire. After fighting successfully with nine traitors in a year, Darius records his battles against them for posterity and tells us how it was the \"lie\" that made them rebel against the empire. At Behistun, Darius says:\n\nKing Darius then tells us,\n\nThen advice to his son Xerxes, who is to succeed him as the great king:\n\nDuring the reign of Cyrus and Darius, and as long as the seat of government was still at Susa in Elam, the language of the chancellery was Elamite. This is primarily attested in the Persepolis fortification and treasury tablets that reveal details of the day-to-day functioning of the empire. In the grand rock-face inscriptions of the kings, the Elamite texts are always accompanied by Akkadian (Babylonian dialect) and Old Persian inscriptions, and it appears that in these cases, the Elamite texts are translations of the Old Persian ones. It is then likely that although Elamite was used by the capital government in Susa, it was not a standardized language of government everywhere in the empire. The use of Elamite is not attested after 458 BC.\n\nFollowing the conquest of Mesopotamia, the Aramaic language (as used in that territory) was adopted as a \"vehicle for written communication between the different regions of the vast empire with its different peoples and languages. The use of a single official language, which modern scholarship has dubbed \"Official Aramaic\" or \"Imperial Aramaic\", can be assumed to have greatly contributed to the astonishing success of the Achaemenids in holding their far-flung empire together for as long as they did.\" In 1955, Richard Frye questioned the classification of Imperial Aramaic as an \"official language\", noting that no surviving edict expressly and unambiguously accorded that status to any particular language. Frye reclassifies Imperial Aramaic as the \"lingua franca\" of the Achaemenid territories, suggesting then that the Achaemenid-era use of Aramaic was more pervasive than generally thought. Many centuries after the fall of the empire, Aramaic script and – as ideograms – Aramaic vocabulary would survive as the essential characteristics of the Pahlavi writing system.\n\nAlthough Old Persian also appears on some seals and art objects, that language is attested primarily in the Achaemenid inscriptions of Western Iran, suggesting then that Old Persian was the common language of that region. However, by the reign of Artaxerxes II, the grammar and orthography of the inscriptions was so \"far from perfect\" that it has been suggested that the scribes who composed those texts had already largely forgotten the language, and had to rely on older inscriptions, which they to a great extent reproduced verbatim.\n\nWhen the occasion demanded, Achaemenid administrative correspondence was conducted in Greek, making it a widely used bureaucratic language. Even though the Achaemenids had extensive contacts with the Greeks and vice versa, and had conquered many of the Greek-speaking areas both in Europe and Asia Minor during different periods of the empire, the native Old Iranian sources provide no indication of Greek linguistic evidence. However, there is plenty of evidence (in addition to the accounts of Herodotus) that Greeks, apart from being deployed and employed in the core regions of the empire, also evidently lived and worked in the heartland of the Achaemenid Empire, namely Iran. For example, Greeks were part of the various ethnicities that constructed Darius' palace in Susa, apart from the Greek inscriptions found nearby there, and one short Persepolis tablet written in Greek.\n\nHerodotus mentions that the Persians were invited to great birthday feasts (Herodotus, \"Histories\" 8), which would be followed by many desserts, a treat which they reproached the Greeks for omitting from their meals. He also observed that the Persians drank wine in large quantities and used it even for counsel, deliberating on important affairs when drunk, and deciding the next day, when sober, whether to act on the decision or set it aside. Bowing to superiors, or royalty was one of the many Persian customs adopted by Alexander the Great.\n\nReligious toleration has been described as a \"remarkable feature\" of the Achaemenid Empire.\nAs reported in the Old Testament, king Cyrus the Great was believed to have released the Jews from captivity in 539–530 BC, and permitted their return to their homeland. Cyrus the Great assisted in the restoration of the sacred places of various cities.\n\nIt was during the Achaemenid period that Zoroastrianism reached South-Western Iran, where it came to be accepted by the rulers and through them became a defining element of Persian culture. The religion was not only accompanied by a formalization of the concepts and divinities of the traditional Iranian pantheon but also introduced several novel ideas, including that of free will.\n\nUnder the patronage of the Achaemenid kings, and by the 5th century BC as the \"de facto\" religion of the state, Zoroastrianism reached all corners of the empire. The Bible states in the Old Testament that Cyrus the Great allowed the Jews to return to their homeland after decades of captivity by the Assyrian and Babylonian empires.\nDuring the reign of Artaxerxes I and Darius II, Herodotus wrote \"[the Persians] have no images of the gods, no temples nor altars, and consider the use of them a sign of folly. This comes, I think, from their not believing the gods to have the same nature with men, as the Greeks imagine.\" He claims the Persians offer sacrifice to: \"the sun and moon, to the earth, to fire, to water, and to the winds. These are the only gods whose worship has come down to them from ancient times. At a later period they began the worship of Urania, which they borrowed from the Arabians and Assyrians. Mylitta is the name by which the Assyrians know this goddess, to whom the Persians referred as Anahita.\" (The original name here is Mithra, which has since been explained to be a confusion of Anahita with Mithra, understandable since they were commonly worshipped together in one temple).\n\nFrom the Babylonian scholar-priest Berosus, who—although writing over seventy years after the reign of Artaxerxes II Mnemon—records that the emperor had been the first to make cult statues of divinities and have them placed in temples in many of the major cities of the empire. Berosus also substantiates Herodotus when he says the Persians knew of no images of gods until Artaxerxes II erected those images. On the means of sacrifice, Herodotus adds \"they raise no altar, light no fire, pour no libations.\" This sentence has been interpreted to identify a critical (but later) accretion to Zoroastrianism. An altar with a wood-burning fire and the Yasna service at which libations are poured are all clearly identifiable with modern Zoroastrianism, but apparently, were practices that had not yet developed in the mid-5th century. Boyce also assigns that development to the reign of Artaxerxes II (4th century BC), as an orthodox response to the innovation of the shrine cults.\n\nHerodotus also observed that \"no prayer or offering can be made without a magus present\" but this should not be confused with what is today understood by the term \"magus\", that is a \"magupat\" (modern Persian: \"mobed\"), a Zoroastrian priest. Nor does Herodotus' description of the term as one of the tribes or castes of the Medes necessarily imply that these \"magi\" were Medians. They simply were a hereditary priesthood to be found all over Western Iran and although (originally) not associated with any one specific religion, they were traditionally responsible for all ritual and religious services. Although the unequivocal identification of the \"magus\" with Zoroastrianism came later (Sassanid era, 3rd–7th century AD), it is from Herodotus' \"magus\" of the mid-5th century that Zoroastrianism was subject to doctrinal modifications that are today considered to be revocations of the original teachings of the prophet. Also, many of the ritual practices described in the Avesta's \"Vendidad\" (such as exposure of the dead) were already practised by the \"magu\" of Herodotus' time.\n\n\"Achaemenid architecture\" includes large cities, temples, palaces, and mausoleums such as the tomb of Cyrus the Great. The quintessential feature of Persian architecture was its eclectic nature with elements of Median, Assyrian, and Asiatic Greek all incorporated, yet maintaining a unique Persian identity seen in the finished products.\n\n\"Achaemenid art\" includes frieze reliefs, Metalwork such as the Oxus Treasure, decoration of palaces, glazed brick masonry, fine craftsmanship (masonry, carpentry, etc.), and gardening. Although the Persians took artists, with their styles and techniques, from all corners of their empire, they produced not simply a combination of styles, but a synthesis of a new unique Persian style. Cyrus the Great in fact had an extensive ancient Iranian heritage behind him; the rich Achaemenid gold work, which inscriptions suggest may have been a speciality of the Medes, was for instance in the tradition of the delicate metalwork found in Iron Age II times at Hasanlu and still earlier at Marlik.\n\nOne of the most remarkable examples of both Achaemenid architecture and art is the grand palace of Persepolis, and its detailed workmanship, coupled with its grand scale. In describing the construction of his palace at Susa, Darius the Great records that:\nThis was imperial art on a scale the world had not seen before. Materials and artists were drawn from all corners of the empire, and thus tastes, styles, and motifs became mixed together in an eclectic art and architecture that in itself mirrored the Persian empire.\n\nMany Achaemenid rulers built tombs for themselves. The most famous, Naqsh-e Rustam, is an ancient necropolis located about 12 km north-west of Persepolis, with the tombs of four of the kings of the dynasty carved in this mountain: Darius I, Xerxes I, Artaxerxes I and Darius II. Other kings constructed their own tombs elsewhere. Artaxerxes II and Artaxerxes III preferred to carve their tombs beside their spring capital Persepolis, the left tomb belonging to Artaxerxes II and the right tomb belonging to Artaxerxes III, the last Achaemenid king to have a tomb. The tomb of the founder of the Achaemenid dynasty, Cyrus the Great, was built in Pasargadae (now a world heritage site).\n\nThe Achaemenid Empire left a lasting impression on the heritage and cultural identity of Asia, Europe, and the Middle East, and influenced the development and structure of future empires. In fact, the Greeks, and later on the Romans, adopted the best features of the Persian method of governing an empire.\n\nGeorg W. F. Hegel in his work \"The Philosophy of History\" introduces the Persian Empire as the \"first empire that passed away\" and its people as the \"first historical people\" in history. According to his account;\n\nAmerican Orientalist Arthur Upham Pope (1881–1969) said: \"The western world has a vast unpaid debt to the Persian Civilization!\"\n\nWill Durant, the American historian and philosopher, during one of his speeches, \"Persia in the History of Civilization\", as an address before the \"Iran–America Society\" in Tehran on 21 April 1948, stated:\n\nThere were four unattested kings who ruled as satraps to the Neo-Assyrian Empire and the Median Empire.\nThere were 13 attested kings during the 220 years of the Achaemenid Empire's existence. The reign of Artaxerxes II was the longest, lasting 47 years\n\nEarly in the reign of Artaxerxes II, in 399 BC, the Persians lost control over Egypt. They regained control 57 years later, in 342 BC, when Artaxerxes III conquered Egypt.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "7441196", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7441196", "title": "Amrik Singh", "text": "Amrik Singh\n\nAmrik Singh (1948 – June 6, 1984) was the President of the Sikh Students Federation and was killed in the army operation in Golden Temple, Amritsar, on June 6, 1984.\n\nAmrik Singh was the son of Giani Kartar Singh Bhindranwale, the 13th leader of the Damdami Taksal. He was well versed in Gurbani and Sikh literature, and devoted much of his life to Sikh progressive activities. He had passed his Masters in Punjabi from Khalsa College in Amritsar after which he began research work on his Ph.D. thesis.\n\nAmrik Singh was a prominent leader of the orthodox Sikh faction along with Jarnail Singh Bhindranwale. He contested the 1979 Shiromani Gurdwara Parbandhak Committee (SGPC) election, backed by Bhindranwale, but lost to Jiwan Singh Umranangal.\nOn 26 April 1982, he led a campaign to get Amritsar the status of a \"holy city\". During the agitation, he was arrested on 19 July 1982 along with other members of the Damdami Taksal. Jarnail Singh Bhindranwale began the Dharam Yudh Morcha to implement the Anandpur Resolution which primarily requested more autonomy for the Punjabi's, arguing that they were being oppressed and treated unfairly by the Indian government. As part of the Morcha, he also demanded freedom for Amrik Singh and other prominent Sikhs.\n\nAmrik Singh was born in 1948 as the son of Giani Kartar Singh Bhindranwale, the 13th leader of the Damdami Taksal. Manjit Singh was his younger brother.\n\nAmrik Singh studied at Khalsa College and received his MA and was on his way to completing his PhD before pursuing promotion of Sikh teachings.\n\nAmrik Singh was made president of the AISSF on July 2 1978 at large AISSF meeting held at Tagore Theatre, Chandigarh.\n\nAmrik Singh contributed significantly to opposing the Nirankaris and to the building of the Gurdwara Shaheed Ganj, in B-Block Amritsar, at the spot where the 13 Sikh protesters were murdered by the Nirankaris. When no other organization came forth and the government refused to sell the land to Amrik Singh and the AISSF the AISSF Sikhs began building the Gurdwara wall at night so they could claim the land by force. Sikh youth would spend the entire night building the wall and it would be knocked down by the police the next day. A stand off between the police and the AISSF began and the police threatened they would shoot anyone on site, they were met with resolve from Amrik Singh who said they would do anything to raise the memorial for the martyred Sikhs. Eventually the police acceded to the demands of the Sikhs and the Gurdwara remains there today.\n\nIn the General House Shiromani Gurdwara Parbandhak Committee (SGPC) elections of 1979, the first in 13 years, Amrik Singh ran and lost to Jiwan Umramangal. Amrik Singh was in the Dal Khalsa and Bhindranwale's group (who fielded about 40 candidates) running against the Akali Dal and ran for the SGPC Beas constituency. Notably one of The Dal Khalsa aim included establishing a independent Sikh State. Some elements of the Congress party supported and backed Dal Khalsa's and Bhindranwale's group so they could undermine the Akalis.\n\nThe AISSF held a strike on October 25 1980 and another on November 14, 1980 to protest against the high bus fare increase and some other issues in such districts as Amritsar, Gurdaspur, Jalandhar, Patiala, Ludhiana with trains not being able to operate then. This resulted in student-police clashes at numerous places causing the police to open fire at Dasuya and Jhabhal. On the November 14, 1980 strike against the bus fare increase organized by the AISSF there was jammed traffic in the province. The residents of the province provided full support for the Sikh students. Following these agitations all political parties joined the struggle against the increased bus fares. Some reports are there of police stations being attacked.\n\nThe AISSF held numerous agitations, strikes, street riots against various causes and politicians. During the time of the bus fare agitations the AISSF also held numerous demonstrations against various political leaders including the chief minister of Punjab, Darbara Singh. Some notable agitations including Sikh students besieging various Punjab ministers and lock themselves inside their offices or residences during early December of 1980. The students responsible were arrested and tortured and more subsequent agitations was launched for the release of these students with these agitations were so forceful that the police release the students within a couple of days.\n\nThe success of the AISSF, which this time numbered to a membership of 300,000 members, at one point compelled the non-government political parties to join in and hold a demonstration in front of the state secretariat at Chandigarh from making a speech, on January 1981.\nThousands of AISSF volunteers joined the demonstration with more than a thousand being arrested and eventually police throwing tear-gas and also lathi and cane-charged them however the AISSF were successful in delaying the Punjab governor from making a speech making the government invite all the political parties for a dialogue.\n\nThis issue of banning tobacco in and other improvements to Amritsar also put leeway to get the Sikh issues to mainstream politics. In May of 1981 The AISSF alongside Dal Khalsa put forth to pass the bill of banning tobacco in the city of Amritsar, tobacco is strictly forbidden in Sikhism, this bill was originally introduced in 1977 by the Akali Dal for the 400 years founding of Amritsar celebrations. The AISSF gave an ultimatum to the Punjab government to ban tobacco in the city by March 30th or there would be an agitation.\nThe Government of Punjab seemed to agree with the issue but they said that technically passing such a ban would be unconstitutional and therefore could not. Meanwhile AISSF members forcibly started preventing merchants from selling tobacco and to add to the heat Harchand Longowal also publicly expressed his support for the ban. \n\nOn May 29 1981 thousands of Hindus marched in Amritsar to protest against the AISSF ban for tobacco demand. They carried sticks with lit cigarettes through the Amritsar bazaar, beating up Sikhs along the way and yelling provocative slogans.\n\nIn response to the pro tobacco march, on May 31th 1981, the AISSF, Damdami Taksal, Dal Khalsa joined together led by \"Sant\" Jarnail Singh Bhindranwale and with over 20,000 supporters put out a procession. No major Akali leader participated in the march. The march went a route of about two and a half kilometres. Following the march there were eruptions of Hindu-Sikh clashes in Amritsar with the government then initating new laws banning non-religious processions from taking place. These events died down once the government agreed to form a committee to discuss 'holy-city' status for Amritsar.\n\nHoly-city status was not given to Amritsar however on February 27 1983 the Prime Minister passed a law making meat, alcohol and tobacco sale prohibited in the areas around the Harimander Sahib and the Hindu Durgiana temple in Amritsar. On September 10 2016 Aam Aadmi Party leader Arvind Kejriwal promised 'holy-city' status to Amritsar as well as Anandpur Sahib on his visit to the city. He declared liquor, tobacco, cigarette and meat will be completely banned in these cities, it is notable the sales of such items are currently rampant in the city.\n\nOn July 19, 1982 Amrik Singh was arrested for vehemently pleading the case of the arrested workers causing offense and attention to Chenna Reddy, the Governor of Punjab, as well as a possible connection in the attack on Joginder Singh Sandhu, a senior Nirankari leader. \n\nSant Jarnail Singh started a \"morcha\" (agitation) on July 19, 1982 for the immediate release of Bhai Amrik Singh and had popular support throughout Punjab, including support from Akali Dal, Darbara Singh, and the farmers of Majha's country side. Harcharan Longowal, leader of the Akali Dal than announced that his \"morcha\" would also be for the release of Amrik Singh and the 45 original demands presented to Indira Gandhi. Upon news of Akali Dal's new \"morcha\" for the release of Bhai Amrik Singh Jarnail Singh agreed to discontinue his agitation and join the Akali Dal's planned Dharm Yudh Morcha which began in August 4, 1982.\n\nAmrik Singh was released in the summer of 1983 and subsequently honoured at the Akal Takht with flowered garland \"saropas\" (robes of honour).\n"}
{"id": "42128131", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42128131", "title": "Amritabindu Upanishad", "text": "Amritabindu Upanishad\n\nThe Amritabindu Upanishad (Sanskrit:अमृतबिन्दु उपनिषद्) is one of the minor Upanishads of Hinduism. It is one of the five \"Bindu Upanishads\", attached to the Atharvaveda, and one of twenty Yoga Upanishads in the four Vedas.\n\nThe text is notable for condemning \"bookish learning\" and emphasizing practice, as well as for presenting a six limbed Yoga system which match five stages of the eight stage Patanjali's Yogasutras and offering a unique, different sixth stage.\n\nThe Amṛitabindu is listed at number 20 in the serial order of the Muktika enumerated by Rama to Hanuman in the modern era anthology of 108 Upanishads. The text sometimes appears under the title \"Brahmabindu Upanishad\" or \"Amritanada Upanishad\", in some anthologies. It shares over 20 Vedanta-philosophy related verses with Amritanada Upanishad in compilations where these two texts are separated into independent Upanishads.\n\nPaul Deussen states that the title has two meanings, first being \"the esoteric doctrine of a bindu (point) or nada (reverberation) of the word Om which signifies Brahman\", while the second meaning is a drop which grants immortality. The discussion of Om by the text, states Deussen, suggests that the former meaning may be more appropriate. It is one of five Upanishads whose title has the suffix \"bindu\" meaning \"drop\", while “amrita” represents nectar of immortality like ambrosia in Greek literature parlance, but here its real emphasis is on mind. Amritabindu Upanishad, also meaning \"Immortal Point,\" differentiates between vocal recitation of the Om syllable and its non-vocal practice.\n\nThe different names of similar texts may be the result of a scribal error that persisted as the text spread across India. However, the number of verses vary between the manuscripts, ranging from twenty two verses in Ayyangar translation, and 38 in Deussen translation.\n\nThe text, states Deussen, has also been referred to as \"Amritanada Upanishad\" by medieval Indian scholars such as Sayana of the Vijayanagara Empire. David Gordon White states that Bindu and Nada Upanishads were related, deriving their nomenclature from the symbol Om and its relation to meditation on the Brahman metaphysical reality, the Nada texts \"all show some similarities to the bindu texts\", and may have origins in the Tantric traditions. The text of Amritabindu Upanishad, states White, appears under the title of Brahmabindu Upanishad in some older anthology.\n\nMircea Eliade suggests that Amritabindu Upanishad was possibly composed in the same period as the didactic parts of the Mahabharata, the chief Sannyasa Upanishads and along with other early Yoga Upanishads: Brahmabindu (probably composed about the same time as Maitri Upanishad), Ksurika, Tejobindu, Brahmavidya, Nadabindu, Yogashikha, Dhyanabindu and Yogatattva Upanishad. Eliade's suggestion places these in the final centuries of BCE or early centuries of the CE. All these, adds Eliade, were likely composed earlier than the ten or eleven later Yoga Upanishads such as the Yoga-kundali, Varaha and Pashupatabrahma Upanishads.\n\nPaul Deussen states that this text may have preceded Patanjali's Yogasutras text, because it lists six instead of eight limbs for yoga, and both Maitri Upanishad in section 6.18 and Amritabindu place \"Dharana\" after \"Dhyana\", a sequence that is reverse of what is found in the Yogasutras and all later Yoga texts of Hinduism. Both Maitri and Amritabindu, adds Deussen, include the concept of \"Tarka\" in their verses, which may be important to their relative dating.\n\nGavin Flood dates the Amritabindu text, along with other Yoga Upanishads, to be probably from the 100 BCE to 300 CE period.\n\nThis Upanishad is among those which have been differently attached to two Vedas, depending on the region where the manuscript was found. Deussen states it and all Bindu Upanishads are attached to the Atharvaveda, while Ayyangar states it attached to the Krishna Yajurveda.\n\nIn Colebrooke's version of 52 Upanishads popular in north India, the text is listed at number 19 along with the other four Bindu Upanishads with similar theme. The Narayana anthology also includes this Upanishad at number 11 in \"Bibliothica Indica\". In the collection of Upanishads under the title \"Oupanekhat\", put together by Sultan Mohammed Dara Shikhoh in 1656, consisting of a Persian translation of 50 Upanishads and who prefaced it as the best book on religion, it is listed at number 26 and is named \"Ambart bandeh\"(also known as Amrtabindu or Brahmabindu).\n\nThe text opens with an introduction consisting of four verses, followed by four sections of which three discuss the practice, rules and rewards of yoga, followed by a discourse on life-force (\"Prana\", breath). The text ends with a one verse summary.\n\nLike almost all other Yoga Upanishads, the text is composed in verse form.\n\nThe Amritabindu Upanishad is part of a group of five Bindu Upanishads, all dedicated to Yoga. All five of Bindu Upanishads emphasize the practice of Yoga and Dhyana (meditation) with Om, to apprehend Atman (soul, self).\n\nThe text opens stating that it is the wise, who after reading the text books repeatedly, throw away the books and proceed to the practice of yoga with meditation on the silent, invisible Om, in their pursuit of the Brahman-knowledge (ultimate unchanging reality). This lack of interest and esteem in learning or study of the Vedas is found in other Bindu Upanishads, states Deussen, and may reflect ancient trend among Yogins.\nIn the initial verses the Upanishad differentiates the mind under pure and impure states, and assigns its character as \"bondage and liberation\". Further enquiry into the crux of the matter reveals that Truth is realized within Vasudev, which is one's Self.\n\nThe Amritabindu Upanishad states that there are six limbs of yoga, whose sequence and one limb is different from Patanjali's Yogasutras:\n\nThe verse 10 of the Upanishad recommends internally reciting Gayatri, Vyahrtis and Pranava (Om) mantras as counters to time the length of the breathing exercises, while the section reminds the yogi to drink water and breath deeply to cleanse the body and senses.\n\nThe verse 17 of the text begins the rules and recommendation for yoga practice. It begins by stating that one must pick a proper place for yoga, which translates Deussen, is \"a level surface of ground, pleasant and free from faults\". Place a mat, settle in, and enter an Asana, states the Upanishad, such as Padmasana, Svastikasana or even Bhadrasana. The yogi should face north, perform breathing exercises, alternating with the two nostrils, then in the state of comfort and being pacific, say Om and begin meditating.\n\nClose and cast your eyes within, asserts the text in verse 22, sit motionless, practice yoga. Reach rhythmic breathing, concentrate, chain in the mind, reflect and reason, and proceed towards the union in the soul. It is unclear, states Deussen, whether the text implies union of individual soul with highest soul (Anquetil's interpretation), or Prana and Apana (Narayana's interpretation), or is a choice left to the yogi.\n\nThe yogi should be silent, still, lost from the outer world, reflecting or remembering the sacred syllable (Om) internally. In verse 27, the Upanishad lists the Yamas (ethics of yogi with others) and Niyamas (ethics of yogi with one's own body).\n\nThree months of dedicated yoga practice, asserts verse 28 of the text, begins to bring rewards to body. In four months the yogi sees the Devas within, strength marks the yogi in five months, and after six months from starting yoga there is an \"absoluteness of will\" and sense of blissful aloneness, independence (Kaivalya) in the yogi states verse 29. The verses 30–31 describe how meditation and concentration on different moras of the Om syllable, the yogi thinks through soul and in soul alone.\n\nIn some versions of the manuscript found in India, this section is much larger or called as Amritabindu Upanishad while the yoga part is titled separately as Amritanada Upanishad. Many medieval Indian scholars considered these as one. Ayyangar has translated this as a separate Upanishad. The two Upanishads when separate, states White, share over 20 similar verses. This section, adds White, represent exclusively classical Vedanta philosophy methods and goals.\n\nTo quote Swami Madhavananda – \"the \"Amritabindu Upanishad\" inculcates, first, the control of the mind in the shape of desire-less-ness for sense-objects, as the most effective way to the attainment of liberation and the realisation of the One who is Knowledge and Bliss Absolute. Then, it discusses the real nature of the soul and the realisation of the highest truth which leads to unity. Thus, the central theme of all the Upanishads – viz., \"that the Jiva and Brahman are eternally one, and that all duality is a mere superimposition due to ignorance\" is described in this text.\n\nIn the above verse, \"Amritabindu Upanishad\" states that the mind is the cause of bondage and liberation. A mind that craves for something else is in bondage, one that doesn't is liberated. Spirituality is geared to obtain inner purity, calmness of the mind, and ultimately, liberation. In the state of liberation the mental components like virtue and vice become irrelevant.\n\nThis section of Amritabindu text presents the Vedanta theory of non-dualism (Advaita). It states that \"there is only one Self in all creatures, that one appears many just as the moon appears many when reflected in many droplets\", and the toughest connection yet most liberating connection one can make is with one's own Self (soul), which is difficult because it is concealed by Maya. When one successfully removes this veil, look within, one realizes the Self and its unity with the eternal, indestructible, unchanging truth that is one with the universe.\nThe text concludes with a single verse, asserting that one who has realized this knowledge is never reborn again, no matter where he dies.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2356749", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2356749", "title": "Aspergillum", "text": "Aspergillum\n\nAn aspergillum (less commonly, aspergilium or aspergil) is a liturgical implement used to sprinkle holy water. It comes in two common forms: a brush that is dipped in the water and shaken, and a silver ball on a stick. Some have sponges or internal reservoirs that dispense holy water when shaken, while others must periodically be dipped in an aspersorium (holy water bucket, known to art historians as a situla).\n\nAn aspergillum is used in Roman Catholic and Anglican ceremonies, including the Rite of Baptism and during the Easter Season. In addition, a priest will use the aspergillum to bless the candles during candlemas services and the palms during Palm Sunday Mass. At a requiem, if a coffin is present, the priest will sprinkle holy water on the coffin. The aspergillum can be used in other manners where sprinkling of holy water is appropriate, as in a house blessing, in which the priest might bless the entry to the home. The name derives from the Latin verb \"aspergere\" 'to sprinkle'.\n\nThe form of the aspergillum differs in the Eastern Orthodox Church. In the Greek Orthodox Church the aspergillum (\"randistirion\") is in the form of a standing vessel with a tapering lid. The top of the lid has holes in it from which the \"agiasmos\" (holy water) is sprinkled. In the Russian Orthodox Church the aspergillum is in the form of a whisk made of cloth or hair. Sometimes, sprigs of basil are used to sprinkle holy water. In some of the Oriental Orthodox Churches, no aspergillum is used, but the priest will pour holy water into the palm of his right hand and throw it on the faithful.\n\nAn aspergillum is also used in other religions, including Balinese Shaivism (Hinduism).\n\nThe origin is found in the Book of Leviticus Chapter 14 in the Old Testament–\n3. ‘And the priest goes out of the camp and the priest looks, and beholds that the sore of the leprosy of the leper is healed.’ 4. ‘And the priest commands, and takes, for the one healed, two unblemished live birds, cedar wood, Coccus scarlet, and hyssop.’ 5. ‘And the priest commands, and slaughters the one bird in a pottery vessel upon living water.’ 6. ‘He takes the live bird and the cedar wood and the Coccus scarlet and the hyssop and dips them and the live bird in the blood of the bird slaughtered upon the living water.’ 7. ‘And sprinkle seven times upon him purified of leprosy, and he is purified, and sends the live bird upon the face of the field.'\n\nAdam Clarke's commentary: Of the cedar wood, hyssop, clean bird, and scarlet wool or fillet, were made an aspergillum, or instrument to sprinkle with. The cedarwood served for the handle, the hyssop and living bird were attached to it, by means of the scarlet wool or crimson fillet. The bird was so bound to this handle, as that its tail should be downwards, in order to be dipped in the blood of the bird that had been killed. The whole of this made an instrument for the sprinkling of this blood, and when this business was done, the living bird was let loose, and permitted to go whithersoever it would. (Adam Clarke, 1831, vol. I p. 52)\n\nClarke again, of Verse 5. Over running water – Literally \"living\", that is, spring water. The meaning appears to be this; some water (about a quarter of a log, an egg shell and half full, according to the rabbis) was taken from a spring, and put in a clean earthen vessel, and they killed the bird over this water, that the blood might drop into it… (A. C. I p. 529)\n\nFurther, these ceremonies conducted by the priest did not cure skin disease. According to Luke, the diseased person came to the priest \"after\" he had been healed (Luke 5:14). The task of the priest was to make the person who had been excluded from the camp, from his people, and from God, ceremonially clean. Through these ceremonial cleansings, which took place in two stages, a week apart, the diseased individual was restored to fellowship with God and with His people.\n\nThe procedure was a first stage of cleansing which took place outside the camp. The man washed himself and his clothes, and shaved. Two birds were taken. The blood of one was used to purify the man. The death of that bird portrayed the end of the man’s old life outside the camp, and the flight to freedom of the other pictured his liberation from the effects of the disease. Then the man might enter the camp again.\"\n\nAspergilla are also used in modern paganism, particularly to cleanse a ritual area in Wicca, as part of a spell, or during a Wheel of the Year festival in contemporary Witchcraft. Lunarized water, saltwater, or rainwater are most typically used.\n\n\"Aspergillus\", a genus of mold, was named in 1729 by the Italian priest and biologist Pietro Antonio Micheli. When viewed under a microscope, the mold cells were said to resemble an aspergillum.\n"}
{"id": "3079452", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3079452", "title": "Blasphemous Rumours / Somebody", "text": "Blasphemous Rumours / Somebody\n\n\"Blasphemous Rumours\"/\"Somebody\" is Depeche Mode's twelfth UK single and first double A-side single, released on 29 October 1984.\n\nBoth A-side songs are from the album \"Some Great Reward\". \"Somebody\" is the first single with Martin Gore as lead vocals, one of only three (The other ones being \"A Question of Lust\" and \"Home\".)\n\nThe music videos for both songs were directed by Clive Richardson.\n\nThe verses to \"Blasphemous Rumours\" describe a 16-year-old girl who attempts suicide but fails. She experiences a religious revival but is killed in a car accident at age 18. The chorus uses these incidents to conclude, \"I don't want to start any blasphemous rumours / but I think that God's got a sick sense of humour / and when I die, I expect to find him laughing.\" Like other songs on \"Some Great Reward\", the song uses a dense sound with extensive sampled percussion.\n\nWhen Depeche Mode announced that they were planning to release \"Blasphemous Rumours\" as a single, pushback from the religious community resulted, and consequently, the band decided as a compromise to release the single as a double-A side with \"Somebody.\"\n\n\"Somebody\", which was sung by Martin Gore in the studio in the nude, includes one of Gore's \"little twists,\" where the song builds as if it's a song about finding your perfect love, only to have him reveal at the end \"though things like this make me sick / in a case like this I'll get away with it.\"\n\nAll songs written by Martin Gore except:\n\n\n\n\n\nAll live tracks recorded at the Empire Theatre in Liverpool, England on 29 September 1984.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "13368302", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13368302", "title": "Body of resurrection", "text": "Body of resurrection\n\nBody of Resurrection is a typical term of Esoteric Christianity, used to indicate a spiritual body associated with a special enlightenment or experience.\n\nMany western and Eastern traditions share a common doctrine on a spiritual and immortal body which represent the ultimate goal of many ascetical works.\nThis concept of a spiritual and immortal body which has to be formed has many names according to several traditions. \nSometimes the idea of such an immortal body has been called \"the resurrection body\" and \"the glorified body\" in Christianity, \n\"the most sacred body\" (wujud al-aqdas) and \"supracelestial body\" (jism asli haqiqi) in Sufism, \n\"the diamond body\" in Taoism and Vajrayana, \"the light body\" or \"rainbow body\" in Tibetan Buddhism, \n\"the body of bliss\" in Kriya Yoga, and \"the immortal body\" (soma athanaton) in Hermeticism.\nIt has to be specified that each of these names belongs to a different tradition, and every tradition has its own doctrine that differs from the others, so these terms cannot be entirely identified with one another; nevertheless, all of these currents share a common teaching which is the idea of the formation, under special ascetical or supernatural conditions, of an immortal and spiritual body.\n\nFocusing on the resurrection body, which means a spiritual body in an Esoteric Christian framework, we can find some properties of these bodies which are shared by all the esoteric Christian movements. Indeed according to Biblical Scriptures, the resurrected bodies possess several properties: \nThe resurrection bodies, according to almost all the esoteric Christian currents, will be taken for sure at the end of the time when there will be the resurrection of all the bodies of the dead, good and bad, to be judged by Jesus Christ and receive eternal reward or eternal punishment.\n\nIn addition, most esoteric Christian traditions believe that the resurrection body or glorified body can be achieved during this lifetime with special ascetic exercises (which can vary between distinct esoteric movements) or as a supernatural gift.\n\nIn some modern esoteric Christian and theosophical oriented doctrines the resurrection body is related to the Guardian of the Threshold. Although several authors spoke about both of these elements and sometimes they even relate them together (cfr. Rudolf Steiner, Max Heindel, etc...) the most developed theory explaining the relation between these two entities in a theosophical framework is probably due to Tommaso Palamidessi. In his, \"The Guardian of the Threshold and the evolutionary way\", Palamidessi identifies the spectral entity called the \"lesser Guardian of the Threshold\" with the \"archetype of the future resurrection body\". In this line of thought the \"lesser Guardian of the Threshold\" has to be purified, constructed and molded to become the resurrection body of the individual.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "16796155", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16796155", "title": "Charles Hartwell", "text": "Charles Hartwell\n\nCharles Hartwell (; Pinyin: \"Xià Chálǐ\"; Foochow Romanized: \"Hâ Chák-lī\"; December 19, 1825 - January 30, 1905) was an American Board missionary to Foochow, China in the second half of the 19th century.\n\nHartwell was born in Lincoln, Massachusetts on December 19, 1825, and was fitted for college at Westford Academy in Westford, Massachusetts. After teaching several months at West Killingly, Hartwell studied theology at Amherst College in 1849, and received the degree of Master of Arts from the same institution three years later. He was ordained at Lincoln, Massachusetts on October 13, 1852, entered the service of the ABCFM, embarked for China on November 3, and reached Hong Kong on April 16, 1853. Hartwell was located at Foochow (today Fuzhou) on June 9, 1853, and was engaged in missionary work there for the rest of his life, with only three visits to the United States: 1865 - 1867, 1877 - 1878, and 1890 - 1891, in all, four years.\n\nHartwell ranked high as a Sinologist. He spoke the Foochow dialect with fluency, and was one of the proposers of the romanization of that dialect. In addition to preaching the Gospel, he translated one fourth of the New Testament into the Foochow colloquial, composed the Three Character and the Four Character Classics in the same dialect, and various tracts and books (including the 2nd edition of the \"\"). He also prepared many textbooks for schools (including one series of the so-called \"Hongkong Readers\"), wrote a book on Meteorology, and contributed articles on temperance to English and American journals.\nThe fiftieth anniversary of Hartwell's arrival at Foochow was celebrated on May 26, 1903, a full account of which was issued from the Foochow Mission Press in February, 1904, in a volume entitled \"Jubilee Notes\".\n\nHartwell was married twice during his life. On September 6, 1852 he married his first wife Lucy E. Stearns, who died July 10, 1883 in Foochow. In 1885 he married his second wife Hannah Louisa Plimpton Peet Hartwell. Hartwell died of heart failure in Foochow on January 30, 1905. At the time of his death he was the senior missionary of the American Board in China. His wife died 3 years afterwards. His daughter, Emily Susan Hartwell, remained in the field until 1937.\n"}
{"id": "844111", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=844111", "title": "Coriantumr", "text": "Coriantumr\n\nIn the Book of Mormon, Coriantumr () is the name of three figures that appear throughout the book's narrative. Chronologically, they are one of the sons of Omer, a deposed Jaredite king who was later restored to his throne by his sons Esrom and Coriantumr; the last of the Jaredite kings, who lived to see his people destroyed and to see another people, the Mulekites, live in the land; and a Nephite dissenter, who was made leader by the Lamanites over the Lamanite armies.\n\nThe first Coriantumr (chronologically) was one of the sons of Omer. Omer had been deposed from his throne by his son Jared, who kept him imprisoned. Esrom and Coriantumr had been born while their father was held as a prisoner by Jared. Coriantumr and Esrom restored their father as the king of the Jaredites twice. (See Omer (Book of Mormon) for more details.)\n\nCoriantumr was one of the last Jaredites, as well as one of their last kings. In his reign, Ether came under the direction of God to prophesy to the people, and could not be restrained. Accordingly, his prophecies were great and marvelous, and nobody believed because \"they saw them not.\" Eventually, he was cast out, the prophecy of their destruction was given, and Ether remained in a cave, recording the events.\n\nAccordingly, Coriantumr was troubled in the same year Ether was cast out with a great war among the people. Many rose up who were mighty men and sought to destroy him, \"by their secret plans of wickedness.\" However, Coriantumr, being well-studied in war and other cunning learning, gave battle unto them. Neither he nor his house repented; neither did the house of Cohor and Corihor. The war took a turn for the bloodiest, and the king was wounded. Ether came to him and told him that the Lord would spare him and his household if they would repent; otherwise, they would be destroyed and another people would inherit the land and Coriantumr would be the last survivor to see them inherit the land.\n\nCoriantumr refused to repent and tried to kill Ether, who escaped. Then came Shared, who defeated the king and took him captive. But his sons rescued him and reobtained the kingdom. Still, there was great wickedness and robbery in the land. Afterward, the king fighting with Shared in wrath through the valley of Gilgal, then to the plains of Heshlon and back to the Valley of Gilgal, where Shared was slain. In the battle, Shared had wounded Coriantumr in the thigh and he did not go to battle for two years, leaving the people to war unrestrained.\n\nThe land then became cursed so badly that everything had to be kept on one's person or it would be taken. Therefore, every man sought to protect what was his. Then, Coriantumr fought with the brother of Shared, whose name was Gilead. Gilead was beaten and chased to the wilderness of Akish, where the battle was very horrid, with many thousands falling by the sword.\n\nGilead then rushed to the Land of Moron in the night while Coriantumr's army was drunk; slaying many. He then sat on Coriantumr's throne for two years, while Coriantumr gathered strength in the wilderness.\n\nGilead was slain by his high priest upon the throne. Lib (first referred to as a secret combination) then murdered the high priest in a secret pass and obtained the kingdom. Coriantumr came back and gave battle to Lib. Lib hurt Coriantumr's arm but that didn't stop Coriantumr. Lib fled to the borders of the seashore, where they fought again.\n\nLib fled to the wilderness of Akish then to the plains of Agosh. Coriantumr followed with all the people. Coriantumr then slew Lib but the brother of Lib, Shiz, took up the cause, killing man, woman, and child. The smell of the dead bodies was horrid and it troubled the people. Shiz did not stop and swore to avenge his brother. But according to Ether's words Coriantumr did not fall.\n\nShiz pursued him eastward to the seashore and fought for the space of three days. The destruction of Shiz's armies was so great that the people began to flee before the armies. People joined one or the others's armies as they felt they would die.\n\nAfter many battles with Shiz on hilltops and such and after many close calls, Coriantumr wished to end the fighting. All the people were engaged in the battles. Coriantumr began to repent of his sins and sent an epistle to Shiz asking for him to stop the war for the people's sake. Shiz asked for the head of Coriantumr. His army would not allow that. They were drunken with anger and slept upon their swords. The numbers dwindled down until only Shiz and Coriantumr were left. They fought until Shiz fainted for of loss of blood and Coriantumr smote off his head. Coriantumr then wandered off to be found later by the Mulekites (people of Zarahemla), and lived with them nine months until his death.\n\nCoriantumr is also the name of a Nephite dissenter who the Lamanites king made leader over the Lamanite armies. Coriantumr led them into battle against the Nephites in approximately 50 B.C. The origins of Coriantumr are described in Chapter one of the book of Helaman as a descendant of Zarahemla, the founder of the city of Zarahemla and leader of the Mulekites at the time Mosiah I had found them.\nIn about 51 to 50 B.C. Tubaloth, son of the Nephite apostate king Ammoron (who became king of the Lamanites after his brother, Amalickiah had died). He stirred up the people of the Lamanites to war against the Nephites after the recent upheaval over the judgement seat between the sons of Pahoran.\n\nHe appointed Coriantumr over his armies, supposing that because of his great wisdom and strength, he would gain victory over the Nephites. He is described as large in stature.\n\nCoriantumr came with such speed and numerous hosts, that the Nephites were left totally unprepared. He cut down the watch at the entrance of the city and marched with his whole army into the city slaying all who did oppose them. Pacumeni seeing this did flee to the walls and Coriantumr pursued and slew him against the walls. Now, after seeing the Nephites flee and be slain, Coriantumr became courageous in his heart and went out to march against the whole land, for he had the capital which was the stronghold of the land. He then marched towards the city of Bountiful, so he could have the northern lands taken with the sword. He then supposed that the Nephites' strength was in the center of the land and marched straight up it. Now this tactic had given advantage to the Nephite commander Moronihah even though a lot of the Nephites had been slain in the surprise attack, for they had no idea that the Lamanite would come up the center of the land and would go about securing the border cities which they had gathered to defend. Therefore, the Nephite army was not even in the middle of the land and they then surrounded the Lamanites. (Though before they had surrounded them, the Lamanites had taken many cities and slain many people.) Moronihah did this by sending Lehi, the Nephite commander to head them off with his armies before they got to Bountiful, all the while he was coming up behind. Lehi then routed them from Bountiful and Coriantumr's armies were about to flee back to Zarahemla, where they were met by Moronihah and thus a bloody battle ensued, in which the Lamanites could neither flee south, north, east or west. Seeing that they could not retreat the Lamanites surrendered after Coriantumr had spurred them into the Nephite armies, which got him killed.\n\nMoronihah then took back Zarahemla and then sent the Lamanite prisoners home in peace.\n"}
{"id": "1455929", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1455929", "title": "Davar", "text": "Davar\n\nDavar (, lit. \"Word\") was a Hebrew-language daily newspaper published in the British Mandate of Palestine and Israel between 1925 and May 1996.\n\nIt was relaunched in 2016, under the name Davar Rishon, as an online outlet by the Histadrut. \n\n\"Davar\" was established by Moshe Beilinson and Berl Katznelson, with Katznelson as its first editor. The first edition was published on 1 June 1925 under the name \"Davar – Iton Poalei Eretz Yisrael (lit. \"Davar – Newspaper of Eretz Yisrael Workers\").\n\nThe paper was successful, and published several supplements, including \"Davar HaPoelet\" (\"[Female] Worker's Davar\", a women's paper), \"HaMeshek HaShitufi\" (\"Co-operative Economy\"), \"Davar HaShvua\" (\"Davar This Week\") and \"Davar LeYeldim\" (\"Davar for Children\"), as well as the union newsletter \"Va'adken\" (\"Update\"). By 1950 it had around 400 employees and had an extensive distribution system.\n\nUpon Katznelson's death in 1944 Zalman Shazar, later President of Israel, took over as editor. Hana Zemer edited the paper between 1970 and 1990.\n\nAfter the formation of the Labor Party by the merger of Mapai, Ahdut HaAvoda and Rafi in 1968, \"LaMerhav\", the Ahdut HaAvoda-affiliated newspaper merged into \"Davar\". Its last edition published on 31 May 1971 with \"Davar\" officially renamed \"Davar – Meuhad Im LaMerhav\" (lit. \"Davar – United with LaMerhav\").\n\nBy the 1980s the paper was in severe financial difficulties. After Zemer retired in 1990, the paper had joint editors Yoram Peri and Daniel Bloch. The paper was renamed \"Davar Rishon\" and Ron Ben-Yishai took over as editor. However, the Histadrut closed the newspaper in 1996. Its building on the corner of Melchett and Shenkin streets in Tel Aviv was demolished and replaced by an apartment block.\n\nIn 2016, Davar Rishon was relaunched as a web-only news publication.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "9907233", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9907233", "title": "Dhauli", "text": "Dhauli\n\nDhauli hills () are located on the banks of the river Daya, 8 km south of Bhubaneswar in Odisha (India). It is a hill with vast open space adjoining it, and has major Edicts of Ashoka engraved on a mass of rock, by the side of the road leading to the summit of the hill.\n\nDhauli hill is presumed to be the area where the Kalinga War was fought.\n\nThe Rock Edicts found here include Nos. I-X, XIV and two separate Kalinga Edicts. In Kalinga Edict VI, he expresses his concern for the \"welfare of the whole world\". The rock-cut elephant above the Edicts is the earliest Buddhist sculpture of Odisha. The stone elephant shows the animal's foreparts only, though it has a fine sense of form and movement. It is considered as one of the few remains of Mauryan art.\n\nAshoka had a special weakness for Dhauli, where the battle was fought. The Daya river is said to have turned red with the blood of the many deceased after the battle, and enabled Ashoka to realize the magnitude of horror associated with war. He saw to it that Dhauli became an important centre of Buddhist activities. He built several chaityas, stupas and pillars there. He got abodes excavated for the recluse, instructions inscribed for officials, expounded the main principles of dandaniti (strict enforcement of laws) for the public, provided special status to his new kingdom including the stupas at Dhauli.\n\nOn the top of the hill, a dazzling white peace pagoda has been built by the \"Japan Buddha Sangha\" and the \"Kalinga Nippon Buddha Sangha\" in the 1970s.\n\nThe nearby region also houses Ashokan edicts and possibly a Stupa at Bhaskareshwar temple at Tankapani road as arglars.\nThe Dhauligiri hills also has an ancient Shiva temple which is the place for mass gathering during Shiva Ratri Celebrations.\n\n"}
{"id": "1078393", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1078393", "title": "Georgiana Fullerton", "text": "Georgiana Fullerton\n\nLady Georgiana Fullerton (; 23 September 1812 – 19 January 1885) was an English novelist and school founder.\n\nGeorgiana Charlotte Leveson-Gower was the daughter of Granville Leveson-Gower, 1st Earl Granville and his wife Lady Harriet Cavendish, and a sister of the prominent statesman Granville George Leveson-Gower, 2nd Earl Granville. In 1833 she married in Paris an attaché of the embassy, Alexander George Fullerton, who came from Ireland.\n\nShe converted to Roman Catholicism in 1846 and wrote \"The Life of St. Frances of Rome, and Others\". She wrote several novels, some of which were very successful. They include \"Ellen Middleton\" (1844), \"Grantley Manor\" (1847), \"Lady Bird\" (1852), \"Life of St.Francis of Rome\" (1855), \"The Countess of Bonneval\" (1858), \"Rose Leblanc\" (1861), \"Laurentia, a Tale of Japan\" (1861), \"Too Strange Not to Be True\" (1864), \"Constance Sherwood\" (1865), \"A Stormy Life\" (1867), \"Helpers of the Holy Soul\" (1868), \"Mrs. Gerald's Niece\" (1869), \"Life of Louisa de Carvajal\" (1873), \"A Will and a Way\" (1881), and \"Life of Elizabeth Lady Falkland\" (1883). She also published two volumes of verse.\n\nShe founded Saint Walburga's School, in Bournemouth, which survives, albeit on a new site, and a Blue Plaque to commemorate her Catholic activities can be found on the Sacred Heart church in Bournemouth.\n\nIn a margin note in his copy of \"Ellen Middleton\", Edgar Allan Poe wrote: \"A remarkable work, and one which I find much difficulty in admitting to be the composition of a woman. Not that many good and glorious things have not been the composition of women — but, because, here, the severe precision of style, the thoroughness, and the luminousness, are points never observable, in even the most admirable of their writings\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2508381", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2508381", "title": "Greg Bahnsen", "text": "Greg Bahnsen\n\nGreg L. Bahnsen (September 17, 1948 – December 11, 1995) was an American Calvinist philosopher, apologist, and debater. He was a minister in the Orthodox Presbyterian Church and a full-time Scholar in Residence for the Southern California Center for Christian Studies (SCCCS). He is also considered a contributor to the field of Christian apologetics, as he popularized the presuppositional method of Cornelius Van Til. He is the father of David L. Bahnsen, an American portfolio manager, author, and television commentator.\n\nHe was the first born of two sons of Robert and Virginia Bahnsen in Auburn, Washington, and grew up in Pico Rivera, California. In youth he was beset by a number of medical difficulties, the most serious of which was a lifelong blood platelet problem that made it difficult for him to stop bleeding. He also had heart trouble which came to light only during his first college admissions medical exam.\n\nRaised in the Orthodox Presbyterian Church, he actively participated in religious activities. He first began reading the apologetics of Cornelius Van Til when in high school. While attending Westmont College he began writing for the Chalcedon Foundation of Rousas J. Rushdoony and soon came to admire the latter's strong Calvinistic convictions.\n\nIn 1970 Bahnsen graduated \"magna cum laude\" from Westmont College, receiving his B.A. in philosophy as well as the John Bunyan Smith Award for his overall grade point average. From there he went on to Westminster Theological Seminary in Philadelphia, where he studied under Cornelius Van Til. The two became close friends. When he graduated in May 1973, he simultaneously received two degrees, Master of Divinity and Master of Theology, as well as the William Benton Greene Prize in apologetics and a Richard Weaver Fellowship from the Intercollegiate Studies Institute. His next academic stop was the University of Southern California (USC), where he studied philosophy, specializing in the theory of knowledge. In 1975, after receiving ordination in the Orthodox Presbyterian Church, he became an associate professor of Apologetics and Ethics at Reformed Theological Seminary in Jackson, Mississippi. While there, he completed his studies at USC, receiving his Ph.D. in 1978.\nOne of the original pillars of Christian Reconstruction, Bahnsen was a leading proponent of theonomy, postmillennialism, and presuppositional apologetics. He lectured to a broad range of evangelical Christian groups at many colleges and conferences, not only throughout the United States, but in Scotland and Russia. He published numerous articles and has over 1700 audio tapes, videos, articles, and books to his name.\n\nGreg Bahnsen's vocal advocacy of Christian Reconstructionism and theonomy was highly controversial during his lifetime, and a public disputation pertaining to theonomy led to his dismissal from the Reformed Theological Seminary in Jackson, Mississippi. In addition, he was known for his public debates on apologetics, theonomy, religion (such as Roman Catholicism, Islam, and Judaism), and a variety of socio-political issues (such as abortion, gun control, and homosexuality).\n\nBahnsen is perhaps best known for his debates with such leading atheists as George H. Smith, Gordon Stein, and Edward Tabash. The debate with Stein marked one of the earliest uses of a transcendental argument for the existence of God (TAG).\n\nIn 1994 a controversy emerged after atheist philosopher Michael Martin was informed just three weeks before a scheduled debate with Bahnsen, \"that Bahnsen would not debate unless Martin gave written permission to SCCCS to tape the debate\" for resale to support SCCCS. Martin refused, because \"he did not want SCCCS to profit from his participation\", while SCCCS refused to let Bahnsen debate without the debate being taped. The debate was canceled. Since that time Martin has responded to Bahnsen's use of TAG, doing so in his own debates with Michael Butler, John Frame, and Douglas Jones, and has published his \"Transcendental Argument for the Non-Existence of God\" in the journal of the New Zealand Association of Rationalists and Humanists, as well as in essays posted on the Secular Web.\n\nDue to his lifelong medical problems, Bahnsen had to undergo a third aortic valve implant surgery on December 5, 1995. After the completion of the operation, serious complications developed within twenty-four hours. He then became comatose for several days and died on December 11, 1995 at the age of forty-seven.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "33241283", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33241283", "title": "Haredi burqa sect", "text": "Haredi burqa sect\n\nThe Haredi burqa sect (Hebrew: נשות השָאלִים \"Nešót HaŠälím\", meaning \"Shal(-wearing) Women\"), is a religious group within Haredi Judaism, primarily concentrated in Israel, which claims that modesty requires a burqa-style covering of a woman's entire body, a \"shal\" (plural \"shalim\", \"shawl\"), including a veil covering the face. The garment, which looks more like a niqab than a burqa, is also called \"frumka\", a play of the word frum (Yiddish for \"devout\") and \"burqa\". The group, which was estimated to number around 100 in 2008 and several hundred , is concentrated in the town of Beit Shemesh.\n\nThe issue has proven controversial in Haredi circles, with vocal condemnation of the face covering veil by some Haredi organizations, including Edah HaChareidis.\n\nThe frumka as a mode of dress for Haredi women was encouraged by Bruria Keren, an Israeli religious leader who taught a strict (by Orthodox standards) interpretation of Jewish scripture for female adherents. Keren, who covers herself in several layers of clothing, claims that covering women was originally a Jewish tradition, and that she has seen a 400-year-old picture of Jewish women covered from head to toe. There are also Sephardic women, who claim that their mothers covered their bodies entirely so that one cannot discern their figures. A sect member is reported to have explained that she’s “following these rules of modesty to save men from themselves. A man who sees a woman's body parts is sexually aroused, and this might cause him to commit sin. Even if he doesn't actually sin physically, his impure thoughts are sin in themselves”. The religious group, which was estimated to number around 100 in 2008 and may have grown to several hundred by 2011, is concentrated in Beit Shemesh, but also has followers in Safed and Jerusalem. The majority of the women have secular backgrounds.\n\nIn February 2008, Bruria Keren was arrested on charges of severely abusing her children. Identified in court as \"B.\", she was convicted by the Jerusalem District Court in 2009 on three counts of abuse of a minor or helpless person and 25 counts of assault in aggravated circumstances, and sentenced to four years in prison. Her husband, identified in court as \"M.\" was also convicted of 10 counts of assault and three counts of abuse of a minor or helpless person, and was sentenced to six months in jail.\n\nBruria Keren does not speak in front of men and has taken on various ascetic practices. During her prison term, she was hospitalized several times for malnutrition and other maladies as a result of her unwillingness to eat the food provided. Some members of the group reportedly do not believe in vaccination or treatments. On February 8, 2013, one woman's baby allegedly died from untreated flu, with the parents then fleeing from the law. On another occasion, a newborn baby had to be taken to hospital by force, after the mother had refused to go to hospital to give birth to avoid contact with hospitals and physicians. Other cases of child abuse and neglect have been reported within the group.\n\nChildren have been removed from school by their mothers and in one case a woman fled with her children because of a disagreement with a school. The women have also been reported to refuse marital relations. In another case, a 15-year-old boy was married to a 23-year-old woman at the decision of two of the group’s leaders. After the wedding, the groom wanted to divorce his wife, but she refused. As a result, the boy took an additional wife, with his family’s blessing. The new marriage caused a burst of anger and led the first wife to ultimately agree to the divorce.\n\nThe Israeli press has adopted the informal epithet \"Taliban mothers\" to refer to the followers of Bruria Keren's teachings on modesty. According to Miriam Shaviv the estimated 100 “gullible and needy” Jewish women for whom Keren was a holy woman, were not forced but convinced by Keren “that the ideal for a woman was not to be seen in public (and not even to be heard – she used to stop talking for days on end). Negating themselves, she was telling them, making themselves invisible, was the height of frumkeit, while in fact it has no basis whatsoever in halachah”. The Israel National Council for the Child has requested the Welfare Ministry to look into the matter and make sure this behavior is not harmful to the girls.\n\nThe response by other Orthodox schools has been stronger than the rest of the public, and characterized by consternation, particularly against the shal garment. An anonymous \"pashkevil\" condemning the \"cult\" of \"epikoros\" women was posted in Jerusalem in September 2011. The Edah HaChareidis issued an edict declaring the act of wearing the shawl to be a sexual fetish as deviant as scant clothing or nudity. \"There is a real danger that by exaggerating, you are doing the opposite of what is intended [resulting in] severe transgressions in sexual matters,” explains Edah member Rabbi Shlomo Pappenheim. The religious court of Beit Shemesh has issued a sharp condemnation of the group, and warned Jewish women and girls not to be drawn after them or follow their customs.\n\nPeople in Beit Shemesh, which includes some of the most religiously radical sects in Orthodoxy, considered the group of women ridiculously – even psychotically – zealous. Even Sikrikim came out against the phenomenon of wearing veils, which they consider extreme. The women were regularly ostracized and humiliated by the local haredi community because of their clothing. \"We pulled them off buses and yelled at them, 'Desecrators of God's name!'\", one inhabitant said. The movement has caused severe distress among the women's husbands and relatives, although most husbands endure it. Some men accuse the covered women of being immodest, because they draw more attention to themselves with their unusual dress. One man went to a rabbinical court in an attempt to get a ruling to force his wife to stop wearing the burka. Instead, the court, however, found the woman's behaviour so \"extreme\" that it ordered the couple to undergo an immediate religious divorce.\n\nIn 2014, Israeli police shot a member of the sect after she walked into the Western Wall area without stopping at a security checkpoint. She survived and was taken to the hospital for treatment.\n\nYair Nehorai, an Israeli lawyer who has represented individuals involved in the \"Taliban Mother\" case and other orthodox extremists, has written a book loosely based on the real-life \"Taliban Mother\" case. The book, \"Taliban Son\" has been released in Hebrew and in German translation.\n\nAnother Haredi group which requires female adherents to wear such shawls is the Lev Tahor group of Israeli-Canadian rabbi Shlomo Helbrans. A Messianic claimant and faith healer from Tel Aviv named Goel Ratzon reportedly lived with 32 women who neighbors said \"wore modest clothing that neighbors likened to those of religious Muslims\" before he was arrested.\n"}
{"id": "36803736", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36803736", "title": "Holy Rus (organization)", "text": "Holy Rus (organization)\n\nHoly Rus (, \"Svyataya Rus\") is a Russian Orthodox Christian organisation in Russia, headed by Ivan Otrakovsky. The organisation established an Orthodox Christian patrol squad in August 2012 in order to protect Christian churches from desecration by vandals, informing the police or stopping the criminal if necessary. In addition, the squads also deal with individuals who sneer at priests. The leader of the group, Ivan Otrakovsky, stated that: \nHoly Rus stated that its patrol squads will also target individuals insulting God or displaying sacrilegious symbols, such as an inverted cross. There are currently seven volunteer squads operating in Russia and the number is expected to grow. \"Blasphemy, heresy, defilement and lechery\" are offences that Holy Rus will aim to curb. Holy Rus is supported by the majority of the clergy, Forbes reported.\n"}
{"id": "13633", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13633", "title": "Homer", "text": "Homer\n\nHomer (; , \"Hómēros\") is the legendary author of the \"Iliad\" and the \"Odyssey\", two epic poems that are the central works of ancient Greek literature. The \"Iliad\" is set during the Trojan War, the ten-year siege of the city of Troy by a coalition of Greek kingdoms. It focuses on a quarrel between King Agamemnon and the warrior Achilles lasting a few weeks during the last year of the war. The \"Odyssey\" focuses on the journey home of Odysseus, king of Ithaca, around 20 years after the fall of Troy. Many accounts of Homer's life circulated in classical antiquity, the most widespread being that he was a blind bard from Ionia, a region of central coastal Anatolia in present-day Turkey. Modern scholars consider them legends.\n\nThe Homeric Question—concerning by whom, when, where and under what circumstances the \"Iliad\" and \"Odyssey\" were composed—continues to be debated. Broadly speaking, modern scholarly opinion falls into two groups. One holds that most of the \"Iliad\" and (according to some) the \"Odyssey\" are the works of a single poet of genius. The other considers the Homeric poems to be the result of a process of working and reworking by many contributors, and that \"Homer\" is best seen as a label for an entire tradition. It is generally accepted that the poems were composed at some point around the late eighth or early seventh century BC.\n\nThe poems are in Homeric Greek, also known as Epic Greek, a literary language which shows a mixture of features of the Ionic and Aeolic dialects from different centuries; the predominant influence is Eastern Ionic. Most researchers believe that the poems were originally transmitted orally. From antiquity until the present day, the influence of the Homeric epics on Western civilization has been great, inspiring many of its most famous works of literature, music, art and film. The Homeric epics were the greatest influence on ancient Greek culture and education; to Plato, Homer was simply the one who \"has taught Greece\" – \"ten Hellada pepaideuken\".\n\nToday only the \"Iliad\" and \"Odyssey\" are associated with the name 'Homer'. In antiquity, a very large number of other works were sometimes attributed to him, including the \"Homeric Hymns\", the \"Contest of Homer and Hesiod\", the \"Little Iliad\", the \"Nostoi\", the \"Thebaid\", the \"Cypria\", the \"Epigoni\", the comic mini-epic \"Batrachomyomachia\" (\"The Frog-Mouse War\"), the \"Margites\", the \"Capture of Oechalia\", and the \"Phocais\". These claims are not considered authentic today and were by no means universally accepted in the ancient world. As with the multitude of legends surrounding Homer's life, they indicate little more than the centrality of Homer to ancient Greek culture.\n\nMany traditions circulated in the ancient world concerning Homer, most of which are lost. Modern scholarly consensus is that they have no value as history. \n\nSome claims were established early and repeated often. They include that Homer was blind (taking as self-referential a passage describing the blind bard Demodocus), that he was born in Chios, that he was the son of the river Meles and the nymph Critheïs, that he was a wandering bard, that he composed a varying list of other works (the \"Homerica\"), that he died either in Ios or after failing to solve a riddle set by fishermen, and various explanations for the name \"Homer\". The two best known ancient biographies of Homer are the \"Life of Homer\" by the Pseudo-Herodotus and the \"Contest of Homer and Hesiod\".\n\n The study of Homer is one of the oldest topics in scholarship, dating back to antiquity. Nonetheless, the aims of Homeric studies have changed over the course of the millennia. The earliest preserved comments on Homer concern his treatment of the gods, which hostile critics such as the poet Xenophanes of Colophon denounced as immoral. The allegorist Theagenes of Rhegium is said to have defended Homer by arguing that the Homeric poems are allegories. The \"Iliad\" and the \"Odyssey\" were widely used as school texts in ancient Greek and Hellenistic cultures. They were the first literary works taught to all students. The \"Iliad\", particularly its first few books, was far more intently studied than the \"Odyssey\" during the Hellenistic and Roman periods.\n\nAs a result of the poems' prominence in classical Greek education, extensive commentaries on them developed to explain parts of the poems that were culturally or linguistically difficult. During the Hellenistic and Roman Periods, many interpreters, especially the Stoics, who believed that Homeric poems conveyed Stoic doctrines, regarded them as allegories, containing hidden wisdom. Perhaps partially because of the Homeric poems' extensive use in education, many authors believed that Homer's original purpose had been to educate. Homer's wisdom became so widely praised that he began to acquire the image of almost a prototypical philosopher. Byzantine scholars such as Eustathius of Thessalonica and John Tzetzes produced commentaries, extensions and scholia to Homer, especially in the twelfth century. Eustathius's commentary on the \"Iliad\" alone is massive, sprawling nearly 4,000 oversized pages in a twenty-first century printed version and his commentary on the \"Odyssey\" an additional nearly 2,000.\n\nIn 1488, the Greek scholar Demetrios Chalkokondyles published the \"editio princeps\" of the Homeric poems. The earliest modern Homeric scholars started with the same basic approaches towards the Homeric poems as scholars in antiquity. The allegorical interpretation of the Homeric poems that had been so prevalent in antiquity returned to become the prevailing view of the Renaissance. Renaissance humanists praised Homer as the archetypically wise poet, whose writings contain hidden wisdom, disguised through allegory. In western Europe during the Renaissance, Virgil was more widely read than Homer and Homer was often seen through a Virgilian lens. In 1664, contradicting the widespread praise of Homer as the epitome of wisdom, François Hédelin, abbé d'Aubignac wrote a scathing attack on the Homeric poems, declaring that they were incoherent, immoral, tasteless, and without style, that Homer never existed, and that the poems were hastily cobbled together by incompetent editors from unrelated oral songs. Fifty years later, the English scholar Richard Bentley concluded that Homer did exist, but that he was an obscure, prehistoric oral poet whose compositions bear little relation to the \"Iliad\" and the \"Odyssey\" as they have been passed down. According to Bentley, Homer \"wrote a Sequel of Songs and Rhapsodies, to be sung by himself for small Earnings and good Cheer at Festivals and other Days of Merriment; the \"Ilias\" he wrote for men, and the \"Odysseis\" for the other Sex. These loose songs were not collected together in the Form of an epic Poem till Pisistratus' time, about 500 Years after.\"\n\nFriedrich August Wolf's \"Prolegomena ad Homerum\", published in 1795, argued that much of the material later incorporated into the \"Iliad\" and the \"Odyssey\" was originally composed in the tenth century BC in the form of short, separate oral songs, which passed through oral tradition for roughly four hundred years before being assembled into prototypical versions of the \"Iliad\" and the \"Odyssey\" the sixth century BC by literate authors. After being written down, Wolf maintained that the two poems were extensively edited, modernized, and eventually shaped into their present state as artistic unities. Wolf and the \"Analyst\" school, which led the field in the nineteenth century, sought to recover the original, authentic poems which were thought to be concealed by later excrescences. Within the Analyst school were two camps: proponents of the \"lay theory,\" which held that the \"Iliad\" and the \"Odyssey\" were put together from a large number of short, independent songs, and proponents of the \"nucleus theory\", which held that Homer had originally composed shorter versions of the \"Iliad\" and the \"Odyssey\", which later poets expanded and revised. A small group of scholars opposed to the Analysts, dubbed \"Unitarians\", saw the later additions as superior, the work of a single inspired poet. By around 1830, the central preoccupations of Homeric scholars, dealing with whether or not \"Homer\" actually existed, when and how the Homeric poems originated, how they were transmitted, when and how they were finally written down, and their overall unity, had been dubbed \"the Homeric Question\".\n\nFollowing World War I, the Analyst school began to fall out of favor among Homeric scholars. It did not die out entirely, but it came to be increasingly seen as a discredited dead end. Starting in around 1928, Milman Parry and Albert Lord, after their studies of folk bards in the Balkans, developed the \"Oral-Formulaic Theory\" that the Homeric poems were originally composed through improvised oral performances, which relied on traditional epithets and poetic formulas. This theory found very wide scholarly acceptance and explained many previously puzzling features of the Homeric poems, including their unusually archaic language, their extensive use of stock epithets, and their other \"repetitive\" features. Many scholars concluded that the \"Homeric question\" had finally been answered. Meanwhile, the 'Neoanalysts' sought to bridge the gap between the 'Analysts' and 'Unitarians'. The Neoanalysts sought to trace the relationships between the Homeric poems and other epic poems, which have now been lost, but which modern scholars do possess some patchy knowledge of.\n\nMost contemporary scholars, although they disagree on other questions about the genesis of the poems, agree that the \"Iliad\" and the \"Odyssey\" were not produced by the same author, based on \"the many differences of narrative manner, theology, ethics, vocabulary, and geographical perspective, and by the apparently imitative character of certain passages of the \"Odyssey\" in relation to the \"Iliad\".\" Nearly all scholars agree that the \"Iliad\" and the \"Odyssey\" are unified poems, in that each poem shows a clear overall design, and that they are not merely strung together from unrelated songs. It is also generally agreed that each poem was composed mostly by a single author, who probably relied heavily on older oral traditions. Nearly all scholars agree that the \"Doloneia\" in Book X of the \"Iliad\" is not part of the original poem, but rather a later insertion by a different poet.\n\nSome ancient scholars believed Homer to have been an eyewitness to the Trojan War; others thought he had lived up to 500 years afterwards. Contemporary scholars continue to debate the date of the poems. A long history of oral transmission lies behind the composition of the poems, complicating the search for a precise date. At one extreme, Richard Janko has proposed a date for both poems to the eighth century BC based on linguistic analysis and statistics. Barry B. Powell dates the composition of the \"Iliad\" and the \"Odyssey\" to sometime between 800 and 750 BC, based on the statement from Herodotus, who lived in the late fifth century BC, that Homer lived four hundred years before his own time \"and not more\" (καὶ οὐ πλέοσι), and on the fact that the poems do not mention hoplite battle tactics, inhumation, or literacy. At the other extreme, scholars such as Gregory Nagy see \"Homer\" as a continually evolving tradition, which grew much more stable as the tradition progressed, but which did not fully cease to continue changing and evolving until as late as the middle of the second century BC. Martin Litchfield West has argued that the \"Iliad\" echoes the poetry of Hesiod, and that it must have been composed around 660-650 BC at the earliest, with the \"Odyssey\" up to a generation later. He also interprets passages in the \"Iliad\" as showing knowledge of historical events that occurred in the ancient Near East during the middle of the seventh century BC, including the destruction of Babylon by Sennacherib in 689 BC and the Sack of Thebes by Ashurbanipal in 663/4 BC.\n\n\"'Homer\" is a name of unknown etymological origin, around which many theories were erected in antiquity. One such linkage was to the Greek (\"hómēros\"), \"hostage\" (or \"surety\"). The explanations suggested by modern scholars tend to mirror their position on the overall Homeric question. Nagy interprets it as \"he who fits (the song) together\". West has advanced both possible Greek and Phoenician etymologies.\n\nScholars continue to debate questions such as whether the Trojan War actually took place — and if so when and where — and to what extent the society depicted by Homer is based on his own or one which was, even at the time of the poems' composition, known only as legend. The Homeric epics are largely set in the east and center of the Mediterranean, with some scattered references to Egypt, Ethiopia and other distant lands, in a warlike society that resembles that of the Greek world slightly before the hypothesized date of the poems' composition.\n\nIn ancient Greek chronology, the sack of Troy was dated to 1184 BC. By the nineteenth century, there was widespread scholarly skepticism that Troy or the Trojan War had ever existed, but in 1873 Heinrich Schliemann announced to the world that he had discovered the ruins of Homer's Troy at Hissarlik in modern Turkey. Some contemporary scholars think the destruction of Troy VIIa \"circa\" 1220 BC was the origin of the myth of the Trojan War, others that the poem was inspired by multiple similar sieges that took place over the centuries.\n\nMost scholars now agree that the Homeric poems depict customs and elements of the material world that are derived from different periods of Greek history. For instance, the heroes in the poems use bronze weapons, characteristic of the Bronze Age in which the poems are set, rather than the later Iron Age during which they were composed; yet the same heroes are cremated (an Iron Age practice) rather than buried (as they were in the Bronze Age). In some parts of the Homeric poems, heroes are accurately described as carrying large shields like those used by warriors during the Mycenaean period, but, in other places, they are instead described carrying the smaller shields that were commonly used during the time when the poems were written in the early Iron Age.\n\nIn the \"Iliad\" 10.260-265, Odysseus is described as wearing a helmet made of boar's tusks. Such helmets were not worn in Homer's time, but were commonly worn by aristocratic warriors between 1600 and 1150 BC. The decipherment of Linear B in the 1950s by Michael Ventris and continued archaeological investigation has increased modern scholars' understanding of Aegean civilisation, which in many ways resembles the ancient Near East more than the society described by Homer. Some aspects of the Homeric world are simply made up; for instance, the \"Iliad\" 22.145-56 describes there being two springs that run near the city of Troy, one that runs steaming hot and the other that runs icy cold. It is here that Hector takes his final stand against Achilles. Archaeologists, however, have uncovered no evidence that springs of this description ever actually existed.\n\nThe Homeric epics are written in an artificial literary language or 'Kunstsprache' only used in epic hexameter poetry. Homeric Greek shows features of multiple regional Greek dialects and periods, but is fundamentally based on Ionic Greek, in keeping with the tradition that Homer was from Ionia. Linguistic analysis suggests that the \"Iliad\" was composed slightly before the \"Odyssey\", and that Homeric formulae preserve older features than other parts of the poems.\n\nThe Homeric poems were composed in unrhymed dactylic hexameter; ancient Greek metre was quantity rather than stress-based. Homer frequently uses set phrases such as epithets ('crafty Odysseus', 'rosy-fingered Dawn', 'owl-eyed Athena', etc.), Homeric formulae ('and then answered [him/her], Agamemnon, king of men', 'when the early-born rose-fingered Dawn came to light', 'thus he/she spoke'), simile, type scenes, ring composition and repetition. These habits aid the extemporizing bard, and are characteristic of oral poetry. For instance, the main words of a Homeric sentence are generally placed towards the beginning, whereas literate poets like Virgil or Milton use longer and more complicated syntactical structures. Homer then expands on these ideas in subsequent clauses; this technique is called parataxis.\n\nThe so-called 'type scenes' (\"typischen Scenen\"), were named by Walter Arend in 1933. He noted that Homer often, when describing frequently recurring activities such as eating, praying, fighting and dressing, used blocks of set phrases in sequence that were then elaborated by the poet. The 'Analyst' school had considered these repetitions as un-Homeric, whereas Arend interpreted them philosophically. Parry and Lord noted that these conventions are found in many other cultures.\n\n'Ring composition' or chiastic structure (when a phrase or idea is repeated at both the beginning and end of a story, or a series of such ideas first appears in the order A, B, C... before being reversed as ...C, B, A) has been observed in the Homeric epics. Opinion differs as to whether these occurrences are a conscious artistic device, a mnemonic aid or a spontaneous feature of human storytelling.\n\nBoth of the Homeric poems begin with an invocation to the Muse. In the \"Iliad\", the poet invokes her to sing of \"the anger of Achilles\", and, in the \"Odyssey\", he asks her to sing of \"the man of many ways\". A similar opening was later employed by Virgil in his \"Aeneid\".\n\nThe orally transmitted Homeric poems were put into written form at some point between the eighth and sixth centuries BC. Some scholars believe that they were dictated by the poet; Albert Lord noted that, in the process of dictating, the Balkan bards he recorded revised and extended their lays. Some scholars hypothesize that a similar process occurred when the Homeric poems were first written.\n\nOther scholars such as Gregory Nagy hold that, after the poems were formed in the eight century, they were orally transmitted with little deviation until they were written down in the sixth century. After textualisation, the poems were each divided into 24 rhapsodes, today referred to as books, and labelled by the letters of the Greek alphabet. These divisions probably date from before 200 BC, and may have been made by Homer.\n\nIn antiquity, it was widely held that the Homeric poems were collected and organised in Athens in the late sixth century BC by the tyrant Pesistratos (died 528/7 BC), in what subsequent scholars have dubbed the \"Pesistratean recension\". The idea that the Homeric poems were originally transmitted orally and first written down during the reign of Peisistratos is referenced by the first-century BC Roman orator Cicero and is also referenced in a number of other surviving sources, including two ancient \"Lives of Homer\". From around 150 BC, the texts of the Homeric poems seem to have become relatively established. After the establishment of the Library of Alexandria, Homeric scholars such as Zenodotus of Ephesus, Aristophanes of Byzantium and in particular Aristarchus of Samothrace helped establish a canonical text.\n\nThe first printed edition of Homer was produced in 1488 in Milan. Today scholars use medieval manuscripts, papyri and other sources; some argue for a 'multi-text' view, rather than seeking a single definitive text. The nineteenth-century edition of Arthur Ludwich mainly follows Aristarchus's work, whereas van Thiel's (1991,1996) follows the medieval vulgate. Others, such as Martin West (1998-2000) or T.W. Allen fall somewhere between these two extremes.\n\n</div>\n\n\n\nThis is a partial list of translations into English of Homer's \"Iliad\" and \"Odyssey\".\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4235091", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4235091", "title": "Islam in Nicaragua", "text": "Islam in Nicaragua\n\nAccording to 2007 statistics released by the U.S. Department of State concerning Islam in Nicaragua, there are approximately 1,200 to 1,500 Muslims, mostly Sunnis who are resident aliens or naturalized citizens from Palestine, Libya, and Iran or natural-born Nicaraguan citizens born to both of the two groups. The Islamic Cultural Center in Managua serves as the primary \"salaat\" (prayer) center for Muslims in the city, with approximately 320 men attending on a regular basis. Muslims from Granada, Masaya, Leon, and Chinandega also travel to the Managua center for Friday prayers. Granada, Masaya, and Leon have smaller prayer centers in the homes of prominent local Muslims. In May 2007 the Sunni leader of the Managua prayer center was dismissed, due to the increase in Iranian influence in the Muslim community and was to be replaced by a Shi'a religious leader. By the end of the reporting period (May 2007) the Shi'a leader had not been identified.\n\nMuslim immigration occurred in moderate numbers in Nicaragua in the late 19th century. The majority were Palestinian Arab Muslims; the immigration constituted one of the largest waves of immigration to Central America. Although the exact number of Palestinians is not available, Guzmán writes \"it is possible that from the end of the nineteenth century until 1917, when the Ottoman Empire entered its final decline, during World War I, 40 Palestinian families arrived in Nicaragua\".\n\nThis early wave of immigrants quickly lost their Islamic roots and blended into the local population, often by adopting a Christian heritage due to intermarrying and government pressure. At different points during the 1890s to the 1940s Nicaragua, and many other Latin American countries, established laws or issued ordinances that restricted the entry of Arabs, forbade the stay of Arabs already present in the country and curtailed the expansion of their commercial activities.\n\nThe second group of immigrants in the 1960s was better educated, but not any more oriented towards Islam than the first. This group was affected by two major events in Nicaragua: the 1972 Nicaragua earthquake, and the Nicaraguan Revolution in 1979. At that time, many of the former Palestinians immigrated to North America or returned to Palestine. Those that stayed suffered greatly and their families were further assimilated into Christianity. The latest and smallest group of émigrés was in the early 1990s. Many of these were immigrants returning to Nicaragua who had since become more aware of their Muslim heritage from exposure in North America or Palestine. These immigrants also possessed a stronger Islamic identity than previous groups, enabling an Islamic reawakening by the community.\n\nBy 2000 it was estimated that there were 500 families of Palestine Arabs and Palestinian descendants in Nicaragua. The Palestinians that arrived in Nicaragua were mostly Christians and a small number of Muslims, the majority of which came from rural villages near Ramallah, Jerusalem, Beit Jala and Bethlehem. The total population of Palestinians in Nicaragua ranks as the largest Arab community in Central America.\n\nAccording to Fahmi Hassan, President of the 'Asociación Cultural Nicaragüense-Islámica, the Muslim population consists primarily of Arabs who immigrated from Palestinian territories and Lebanon, in addition to a number of indigenous converts. In 1999, the first \"masjid\" (mosque) was constructed in the country on a parcel of land measuring three thousand meters in the San Juan district (Ciudad Jardin) with a capacity for nearly one thousand people. The \"masjid\" provides introductory courses on Islamic doctrine, as well as a place for performance of the congregational Friday prayer (\"Salaat al-Jummah\") and Ramadan activities. Although the small Muslim community initially lacked finances, they were assisted by contributions from a delegation of Panamanian Muslims. Besides its characteristic \"minar\", the liturgical office has a library, prayer room, administrative office, children's area, and a school. Religious seminars are offered for both men and women; Spanish language pamphlets are also distributed. Additionally, another new Islamic Center was recently inaugurated, called the \"Centro Cultural Islámico Nicaragüense\". It is operated by a group of Shiite Muslims and their main goal is the propagation of Islamic teachings. Population of Shiite Muslims existed in Nicaragua from migration of Iranian refugees escaping Iranian Revolution of 1979 and escaping turmoil of Iran–Iraq War of the 1980s, the Iran–Nicaragua ties strengthened the influence of Shia Islam. Most Shi'ite Muslim Nicaraguans are of Iranian blood, they may still speak Persian and/or other Iranian language, aside from Arabic and Spanish. in the 2018 protests in Managua there was little identified participation by the Muslim community\n\n"}
{"id": "7915720", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7915720", "title": "Islam in Tanzania", "text": "Islam in Tanzania\n\nIslam is the religion of about 35.2% of the people of Tanzania. On the mainland, Muslim communities are concentrated in coastal areas, with some large Muslim majorities also in inland urban areas especially and along the former caravan routes. More than 99% of the population of the Zanzibar archipelago is Muslim. The majority of Muslims in Tanzania are Sunni of Shafi school of jurisprudence, with unusually significant Shia and Ahmadi minorities in sub-Saharan Africa. According to Pew research center, two-thirds of the Muslim population of Tanzania is Sunni, while the rest is either Shia (20%) or Ahmadi (15%).\n\nThe earliest concrete evidence of a Muslim presence in the African Great Lakes is the foundation of a mosque in Shanga on Pate Island, where gold, silver and copper coins dated from 830 were found during an excavation in the 1980s. Islam arrived to Tanzania with the Arab slave traders. The route from Ujiji at the shore of Lake Tanganyika to Bagamoyo, just opposite of Zanzibar on main land Tanzania was one of the main routes of Muslim slave routes according to UNESCO data.\n\nThe history of Islam in the country can be traced to the establishment of the Kilwa Sultanate in the 10th century by Ali ibn al-Hassan Shirazi, a Persian prince of Shiraz.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1163094", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1163094", "title": "John Christopher Thomas", "text": "John Christopher Thomas\n\nJohn Christopher Thomas (born c. 1955) is a theologian within the Pentecostal movement and the Clarence J. Abbott Professor of Biblical Studies at the Pentecostal Theological Seminary.\n\nThomas received the B.A. degree from Lee College in 1976, his M.A. from the Church of God School of Theology in 1977, the M.Div. from Ashland Theological Seminary in 1978, a Th.M. from Princeton Theological Seminary in 1979 and a Ph.D. from the University of Sheffield in 1990. Thomas has been a member of the full-time faculty of the Pentecostal Theological Seminary since 1982.\n\nAs a New Testament scholar, Thomas' work has been published in the journals \"New Testament Studies\", \"Novum Testamentum\", \"Zeitschrift fur die neutestamentliche Wissenschaft\", and \"Journal for the Study or the New Testament\". He authored a study titled \"Footwashing in John 13 and the Johannine Community\", published a collection of his essays, \"Ministry and Theology: Studies for the Church and Its Leaders\", and wrote a commentary titled \"The Apocalypse: A Literary and Theological Commentary\" (2012) and a monograph on healing titled \"The Devil, Disease, and Deliverance: Origins of Illness in New Testament Thought\" (2011). Several other books of his include: \"He Loved Them until the End: The Farewell Materials in the Gospel according to John\" (2003); \"The Pentecostal Commentary on 1 John, 2 John, 3 John\" (2004); and \"The Spirit of the New Testament\" (2005).\n\nThomas serves as Editor-in-Chief of the \"Journal of Pentecostal Theology\" and Supplement Series, and serves as General Editor of the \"Pentecostal Commentary Series\". He is also Associate Director of the Centre for Pentecostal and Charismatic Studies, Bangor University, Wales. In 1992, Ashland Theological Seminary named him Alumnus of the Year. From 1997 to 1998, Thomas served as the President of the Society for Pentecostal Studies.\n\nThomas has also approached theological and literary study of the Book of Mormon in his 2016 book \"A Pentecostal Reads the Book of Mormon: A Literary and Theological Introduction\".\n"}
{"id": "41703818", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41703818", "title": "Kayumarth III", "text": "Kayumarth III\n\nKayumarth III (), was the fifth ruler of the Paduspanid branch of Kojur. He was the son and successor of Ka'us III. \n\nDuring the reign of Kayumarth's father, Ka'us III, the latter had Kayumarth imprisoned for unknown reasons. After eighteen years, Kayumarth managed to flee from prison, and had his father poisoned. Kayumarth's uncle, Bisotun ibn Ashraf, with the support of the Paduspanid noblemen, then ascended the Paduspanid throne. However, the people of Mazandaran quickly rose in revolt against him, and had him deposed in favor of Kayumarth. During Kayumarth's reign, his daughter married the Marashiyan Mir Qewam al-Din Marashi. Kayumarth died in 1555, and was succeeded by his brother Jahangir II.\n\n"}
{"id": "14955667", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14955667", "title": "List of Anglican churches in Hong Kong", "text": "List of Anglican churches in Hong Kong\n\nThe list of Anglican churches in Hong Kong is as follows:\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "37906300", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37906300", "title": "List of Catholic churches in China", "text": "List of Catholic churches in China\n\nThis is a list of Catholic churches in China.\n\nSee: List of cathedrals in China#Roman Catholic\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "35079664", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35079664", "title": "List of Catholic dioceses in Latvia", "text": "List of Catholic dioceses in Latvia\n\nThe Roman Catholic Church in Latvia is composed of one ecclesiastical provinces with three suffragan dioceses.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "48678", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48678", "title": "Mahātmā", "text": "Mahātmā\n\nMahatma () is Sanskrit for \"Great Soul\" (महात्मा \"mahātmā\": महा \"mahā\" (great) + आत्मं or आत्मन \"ātman\" [soul]). It is similar in usage to the modern English term saint. This epithet is commonly applied to prominent people like Basaveshwara (1105-1167), Mohandas Karamchand Gandhi (1869-1948), Munshiram (later Swami Shraddhananda, 1856–1926), Lalon Shah (1772–1890), Ayyankali (1863-1941) and Jyotirao Phule (1827–1890). It has also been historically used for a class of Jain scholars.\n\nAccording to Rabindranath Tagore is said to have used on March 6, 1915, this title for Gandhi. Some claim that he was called Mahatma by the residents of Gurukul Kangadi in April 1915, and he in turn called the founder Munshiram a Mahatma (who later became Swami Shraddhananda). However, a document honoring him with the title \"Mahatma\" on Jan 21, 1915, in Jetpur, Gujarat, by Nautamlal Bhagvanji Mehta is preserved at the National Gandhi Museum in New Delhi, India. This document remains the earliest record of the title \"Mahatma\" being bestowed upon Gandhi. The use of the term Mahatma in Jainism to denote a class of lay priests, has been noted since the 17th century. A Mahatma is someone who practices Trikaranasuddhi.\n\nThe word, used in a technical sense, was popularized in theosophical literature in the late 19th century, when Madame Helena Blavatsky, one of the founders of the Theosophical Society, claimed that her teachers were adepts (or Mahatmas) who reside in Asia.\n\nAccording to the Theosophical teachings, the Mahatmas are not disembodied beings, but highly evolved people involved in overseeing the spiritual growth of individuals and the development of civilizations. Blavatsky was the first person in modern times to claim contact with these Adepts, especially the \"Masters\" Koot Hoomi and Morya. Alvin Boyd Kuhn wrote about mahātmās:\n\nThe Masters whom Theosophy presents to us are simply high-ranking students in life's school of experience. They are members of our own evolutionary group, not visitants from the celestial spheres. They are supermen only in that they have attained knowledge of the laws of life and mastery over its forces with which we are still struggling.\nIn September and October 1880, Blavatsky visited A. P. Sinnett at Simla in northern India. Sinnett wrote \"The Occult World\" (1881) and \"Esoteric Buddhism\" (1883).\n\nThere has been a great deal of controversy concerning the existence of adepts. Blavatsky's critics have doubted the existence of her Masters. See, for example, W. E. Coleman's \"exposes\".\n\nAfter Blavatsky's death in 1891, numerous individuals have claimed to be in contact with her Adept Teachers. These individuals have stated that they are new \"messengers\" of the Masters and they have conveyed various esoteric teachings. Currently, various New Age, metaphysical, and religious organizations refer to them as Ascended Masters, although their character and teachings are in several respects different from those described by Theosophical writers.\n\nSome individuals believe that Mahatma Maitreya (also called World Teacher) will make contact with all Humanity in January 2017.\n\nThe Divine Light Mission (DLM) was a Sant Mat-based movement begun in India in the 1930s by Hans Ji Maharaj and formally incorporated in 1960. The DLM had as many as 2,000 Mahatmas, all from India or Tibet, who taught the DLM's secret meditation techniques called \"Knowledge\". The Mahatmas, called \"realised souls\", or \"apostles\", also served as local leaders. After Hans Ji's death in 1966 his youngest son, Prem Rawat (known then as Guru Maharaj Ji or Bagyogeshwar), succeeded him. The young guru appointed some new Mahatmas, including one from the United States. In one incident, a prominent Indian Mahatma nearly beat a man to death in Detroit for throwing a pie at the guru. In the early 1980s, Prem Rawat replaced the Divine Light Mission organization with the Elan Vital and replaced the Mahatmas with initiators. The initiators did not have the revered status of the Mahatmas, and they were drawn mostly from Western followers. In the 2000s, the initiators were replaced by a video in which Rawat teaches the techniques himself.\n\nW.C. Fields used the pseudonym Mahatma Kane Jeeves when writing the script for \"The Bank Dick\" (1940), in a play on both the word \"Mahatma\" and a phrase an aristocrat might use when addressing a servant, before leaving the house: \"My hat, my cane, Jeeves\".\n\nAmong the Jains the term Mahatma is used for class for scholars who are householders.\n\nThe Mewad Ramayana described as \"one of the most beautiful manuscripts in the world\" has been digitally reunited after being split between organisations in the UK and India for over 150 years, by the British Library and CSMVS Museum in Mumbai. The colophon states that the text, commissioned by Acarya Jasvant for the library of Maharana Jagat Singh I of Mewar, was written by the Mahatma Hirananda, was finished on Friday 25 November 1650. Mahatma Hirananda being a Jain scribe, incorporated traditional Jain scribal elements into the manuscript.\n\nThe famous Dabestan-e Mazaheb often attributed to one Mohsin Fani, written around 1655 CE. is a text written in the Mughal period that describes various religions and philosophies the author encountered. Its Section 11 is dedicated to Jainism. It states: \"Similar to the durvishes of both classes (Srivaras and Jatis) is a third sect, called Mahá-átma; they have the dress and appearance of Jatis; only they do not pluck their hair with tweezers, but cut it. They accumulate money, cook their meal in their houses, drink cold water, and take to them a wife.\" The term Mahatma was thus used for priest/scholars who were not celibate. The present Persian edition of the text by Rezazadeh Malik attributes it to the son and successor of Azar Kayvan, 'Kay Khosrow Esfandiyar'.\n\nK. Paul Johnson in his books speculates that the \"Masters\" that Blavatsky wrote about and produced letters from were actually idealizations of people who were her mentors. Aryel Sanat, author of \"The inner life of Krishnamurti: private passion and perennial wisdom\", wrote that Johnson \"claims in all of his books that there were no Masters at all in early [Theosophical Society] history, & that [Helena Blavatsky] invented them (as others had claimed she had invented her travels).\" Sanat wrote that Johnson \"deliberately ignores the main sources of evidence for their real physical existence.\" What Sanat thought these were is not made quite clear.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2952822", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2952822", "title": "Master of Theological Studies", "text": "Master of Theological Studies\n\nA Master of Theological Studies (M.T.S.) is a graduate degree, offered in theological seminary or graduate faculty of theology, which gives students lay training in theological studies. Under Association of Theological Schools in the United States and Canada (ATS) standards, programs require graduates to have earned an accredited bachelor's degree or its equivalent. Programs usually require students to complete two years of full-time study or its equivalent to earn the degree. The degree can serve as preparation for entering a doctoral program in theology (Th.D.), religion (Ph.D.), or a related subject, such as education, counseling, social sciences, or humanities.\n\nThe MTS degree should not be confused with the Master of Sacred Theology, or S.T.M./STM degree which is usually an additional year-long program of advanced study after the MTS or Master of Divinity (M.Div.) degree focusing on one area of special interest.\n\nThe M.T.S. may require the completion of a summative evaluation, which could be a thesis or other project. The complete standards are listed in the Association of Theological Schools in the United States and Canada ATS Program Standards for the MTS degree.\n\nThe ATS standards specify that the bulk of courses in the MTS program be academic rather than professional.\n"}
{"id": "15459181", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15459181", "title": "Medinet Madi", "text": "Medinet Madi\n\nMedinet Madi is a site in the southwestern Faiyum region of Egypt with the remains of a Greco-Roman town where a temple of the cobra-goddess Renenutet (a harvest deity) was founded during the reigns of Amenemhat III and Amenemhat IV (1855–1799 BC). It was later expanded and embellished during the Greco-Roman period. In the Middle Kingdom the town was called Dja, in the Ptolemaic and Roman Periods it was called Narmuthis.\n\nIn the Middle Kingdom the town was called \"Dja\", but not much is known about the town in this period apart from the well preserved temple. The temple still functioned in the New Kingdom. King Merenptah placed a statue of himself into the temple. After the New Kingdom the place was abandoned. People settled here again in Ptolemaic times. The Ptolemaic town was laid out on a grid pattern and is about 1000 × 600 m big. The main temples are in the Western part of the town. There is a long processional way going north to South. The town never had walls. However under emperor Diocletian there was built a castrum north east of the town. The fortress (50 × 50 m)is square with the main entrance in the South. At each corner there was a tower. Here was stationed the \"Cohors IV Numidarum\". In Byzantine Times the population moved to the southern part of the town. Several churches were erected. The town was still occupied after the Arab conquest of Egypt, but was abandoned after the ninth century.\n\nThe dark sandstone inner part of the temple consists of a small papyrus-columned hall leading to a sanctuary comprising three chapels, each containing statues of deities. One column bears the name of Amenemhat III, the other with the name of Amenemhat IV. Both naming also Renenutet. The central chapel incorporated a large statue of Renenutet, with Amenemhat III and Amenemhat IV standing on either side of her. In the inscriptions, the temple is simply called \"temple of Renenutet\". Renenutet is called \"The living Renenutet of Dja\".\nThe reliefs in the first hall are not well preserved, but they include a scene showing a king and the goddess Seshat, founding the temple. Behind the entrance room there follows another one, that is also all around decorated with reliefs. On the South side there is a scene showing Amenemhat III in front of Renenutet. The latter is depicted as standing women with a snake head. Between both is shown in a much smaller scale the \"king's daughter\" Neferuptah. At the back of this room, on the North side, there are the three chapels. The first one, on the West side, is dedicated to Renenutet. She appears as the main deity at the back of the chapel. On the side walls are shown on the West side Sobek, and on the East side Renenutet. The second chapel was dedicated to Renenutet and Sobek. Renenutet appears on the West wall and on the back (North) wall, standing behind king Amenemhat III. The king is standing in front of Sobek, who also appears on the East wall in front of the same king. On the East wall appears Sobek again. The last chapel was again mainly dedicated to Renenutet. She appears on the West and on the back wall in front of Amenemhat III, while on the East wall Sobek is standing in front of a king.\n\nThe Ptolemaic parts of the temple comprise a paved processional way passing through an eight-columned kiosk leading to a portico and transverse vestibule. It has been suggested that the unusually good preservation of this temple complex, excavated by a team of archaeologists from the University of Milan in the 1930s, may have been due simply to its relative seclusion.\n\nTemple B was built at the back of temple A with the main entrance facing to the North. The plan of this building is similar to that of temple A. There is an open broad courtyard at the front. There follows a hall and at the back there are three chapels. The central chapel has a niche at the back. The temple was dedicated to Isis-Thermouthis (Thermouthis is the Greek name for Renenutet). The temple's decoration is unfinished. There are some figures carved as reliefs on the temple walls. Two badly preserved figures flanking the entrance. On the leftside of the facade was carved a sitting figure, that was never finished.\n\nTemple C was so called by the excavators. It was dedicated to the cult of two crocodile mummies. The temple complex was excavated from 1995 to 1999. The temple lies east of the Renenutet temple with the main entrance facing the latter temple complex. It dates to the Ptolemaic Period and was found well preserved. The walls are still up to four meters high. The temple proper consists of a small courtyard with a chapel behind it. The chapel contains two naoi. In each of them was found the mummy of a crocodile. In front of the temple is a bigger courtyard and there are on both sides buildings. They were perhaps for economical use. North of the temple was excavated a vaulted chamber. The interior is divided into two parts by a stone wall. Attached to the wall there is a basin. In the basin where found more than thirty crocodile eggs. This might indicate that this vaulted room was once a nursery for crocodiles. The temple complex was in use till the Fourth century AD and then abounded. \n\nMedinet Madi is \"the only intact temple still existing from the Middle Kingdom\" according to Zahi Hawass, a former Secretary-General of the Supreme Council of Antiquities (SCA). The temple's foundations, administrative buildings, granaries and residences were recently uncovered by an Egyptian archaeological expedition in early 2006.\n\nCoptic texts were uncovered near Medinet Maadi in 1928. Among them was the Manichaean Psalm-book that includes the Psalms of Thomas.\n\n"}
{"id": "55204484", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55204484", "title": "Melchor Ferrer Dalmau", "text": "Melchor Ferrer Dalmau\n\nMelchor Ferrer Dalmau (1888-1965) was a Spanish historian and a Carlist militant. He is known mostly as principal author of a massive, 30-volume series titled \"Historia del tradicionalismo español\", considered fundamental work of reference for any student of Carlism. Ferrer is recognized also as \"periodista\", chief editor of one national and few local Traditionalist dailies and contributor to a number of others. Politically he maintained a low profile, though periodically he was member of the party executive and during internal party strife of the early 1960s his support might have tipped the balance in favor of the progressist faction.\n\nFerrer counts among the oldest and most common names in Catalonia; one family lived in the town of Mataró, where in the 14th century it was first noted when turning from \"lo ferrer\" to \"lo Fferrer\". They grew into prominence as traders and bankers in the 15th century, dubbed \"primera familia de patricis de Mataró\". Some of them held high posts in the Principality, e.g. emerging as its general treasurers in the 16th century and becoming key representatives of the emerging Catalan bourgeoisie in the 17th and 18th century. The family got very branched later on, also in the Latin America. None of the sources consulted specifies which branch Melchor descended from and little is known about his grandfather, Antonio Ferrer, a cord manufacturer (\"cordonero\").\n\nThe father of Melchor, Antonio Ferrer Arman (1845?-1899), in the 1860s studied engineering in Barcelona In 1870 he applied for a job at Instituto de Tarragona but failed, eventually he landed a teaching position in the Valldemia college, which at that time was already run by the Piarists. Though during his youth he demonstrated some penchant for Liberal ideas, during the Third Carlist War he sided with the legitimists and volunteered to Carlist troops; details of his service are unknown, except that he grew to an officer and served under command of Rafael Tristany. Having returned to Mataró in the mid-1880s he became first headmaster of the newly founded Escuela de Artes y Oficiales and remained at this post until his death, teaching mathematics. In the 1890s he was also active as ingeniero municipal, land surveyor and tonnage inspector, co-founder of Associació Artístich-Arqueológica Mataronesa and author of semi-scientific works, like \"Geometria analítica\" (1898). He is counted among local Mataró intellectuals who contributed to conservative Catholic Catalanism in the area, collaborating e.g. with Josep Puig i Cadafalch. Ferrer Arman married Teresa Dalmau Gual, originating from Matanzas in Cuba; nothing is known about her family, apart from the fact that they were also of Catalan origin and may have had a Naviera business.\n\nThe couple had at least 4 children; Melchor was born among the youngest ones. His older brothers, Antonio and Augusto, graduated as engineers and developed own textile and chemical businesses in Barcelona and Valencia. Melchor was first educated in the Mataró Piarist college and then in Instituto de Barcelona. Like his siblings he trained to become an engineer and received technical education at Escuela de Ingenieros Industriales y Textiles in the nearby Terrassa. It is not clear if he graduated, yet Melchor has never pursued a related career; in 1910 he commenced co-operation with Catalan journals. In 1920 he married Paquita Rubio García; nothing is known about her except that she came from a military family. The couple remained childess, yet Melchor and his sister-in-law Elvira Bonet had one son, Xavier Ferrer Bonet, a later Partido Carlista acitivist and writer. Augusto Ferrer-Dalmau Nieto, a well-known painter specializing in historical military themes, is the great-grandson of Melchor's brother.\n\nWith his father a Carlist combatant and older brothers engaged in Carlist activities, Melchor followed suit in his youth. During academic years he joined the Barcelona section of Juventud Tradicionalista. From the onset he demonstrated interest in the realm of communication in general and newspapers in particular. Engaged in Sección de Prensa and becoming president of \"sub-sección de ventas\" he supported sales of Traditionalist papers beyond usual distribution channels; he was also member of Junta Directiva of Sección de Propaganda. First contributing minor pieces to youth and party bulletins, in 1910 he formally entered the editorial board of \"\", an established Barcelona-based daily and a regional Carlist mouthpiece. It is not clear what his work consisted of and whether the young Ferrer published pieces of his own; he kept working for Correo until 1914.\n\nThough Ferrer delivered lectures at meetings of Carlist paramilitary organisation requeté he had no military experience himself when in 1914, heavily influenced by Maurras and admirer of L'Action Française, he decided to join the French army and fight the Germans. The Republican press ridiculed him as a future field marshal, though with no news of his whereabouts Ferrer was first feared dead in combat. In fact things turned out oddly, yet the entire episode is far from clear. According to contemporary press the pro-German stand of \"Correo\" combined with anonymous denunciation cost Ferrer arrest; presumed to be a spy, he was court-martialled in Lyon but spared a sentence ending up in Légion étrangère, the fate he accepted with resignation as result of his idealistic and perhaps childish “chiquillada”. Other accounts either deny the arrest episode or simply claim that Ferrer volunteered to the legion. This way or another, Ferrer served in the Foreign Legion in Champagne and grew to NCO before being released in 1918.\n\nIn late 1918 and early 1919 Ferrer spent some time in Paris; it is there he entered the entourage of the Carlist pretender Don Jaime. The two found common ground, not unlikely given their shared francophilia. As a result, upon his return to Spain in the spring Ferrer was nominated director político of \"\", the Madrid daily serving as national Carlist mouthpiece; his task was to ensure loyalty of the newspaper, so far controlled by the dissenting Mellista faction. As he was largely unknown beyond Catalonia some Carlist heavyweights suspected dirty tricks on part of Don Jaime's secretary Melgar and asked for confirmation, which finally permitted Ferrer to assume his post. His mission proved successful; though Mellista defection decimated Carlist ranks, \"Correo\" maintained loyalty to the claimant. Ferrer remained in close touch with his king; he used to travel to Paris for consultations and in late 1919 took part in the massive gathering known as Magna Junta de Biarritz, where he represented Castilla La Nueva. He also toured Spain, trying to save what was left of the crumbling Carlist organisation. Ferrer's term in \"Correo\" lasted until mid-1920; it is not clear why he left the daily.\n\nIt does not seem that Ferrer left \"Correo\" because of discrepancies with his king; quite to the contrary, in the movement plagued by defections and by some considered dead he remained among most loyal individuals and a bulwark against the Mellistas. His position was confirmed when at unspecified time in the 1920s Ferrer became secretario pariculario – sort of a personal secretary – to Don Jaime himself. None of the sources consulted clarifies whether he moved to Paris when performing the new job, yet his contributions kept appearing in numerous dailies and periodicals, including the French ones. Some scholars suggest he might have been involved in efforts to animate the Requeté organisation across Spain and that Ferrer might have also contributed to loose preparations to stage an eventually cancelled Carlist anti-primoderiverista coup in Seu d’Urgell in 1928; Ferrer himself points rather to his older brother Antonio. Another scholar claims that Ferrer remained the secretary of Don Jaime until the Carlist king passed away in late 1931.\n\nIn late 1930 Ferrer assumed management of \"Diario Montañes\", a conservative Santander daily strongly flavored with Traditionalism. Circumstances of his appointment are not known; it is neither clear how it could have been reconciled with alleged work for Don Jaime. Ferrer's term in Santander lasted almost 5 years and seems rather successful, at least in terms of mobilizing support for the cause; during the Republican period the Cantabrian Carlism enjoyed its revival. Ferrer contributed also by attending various meetings, where he used to give lectures. In 1931 he published one of his few theoretical booklets and penned pieces to a Santanderine review \"Tradición\". Apart from those discussing ideological threads, some were also his first incursions into the field of history, like piece on aristocratic titles conceded by Carlist monarchs or a summary of party's political leadership during the previous half a century. \n\nIn early 1935 Ferrer moved from the coast of Biscay to Andalusia, where he assumed management of the local daily \"Eco de Jaén\". A recently established newspaper, it was in fact successor to \"El Pueblo Católico\", a Traditionalist daily issued since 1893; the latter underwent ownership changes and finally closed, to be reborn under a new name. When Ferrer took over the daily was still shaped by its previous Integrist heritage; Ferrer brought it fully into Carlist orthodoxy and converted into a modern newspaper. Like in Santander, he supported the Carlist buildup by attending local meetings and mobilizing support. It is not clear whether Ferrer contributed to or was even aware of the Carlist anti-Republican conspiracy; one author claims the 1936 coup caught him by surprise. \"Eco de Jaén\" operated until late July, when first its premises were ransacked and then the paper was turned into the mouthpiece of local Frente Popular. Having lost his job Ferrer was subject to unspecified persecution and harassment, yet he survived the revolutionary terror and following almost 3 years in the Republican zone endured to see Jaén captured by the Nationalists in late March 1939.\n\nShortly after the Nationalist takeover of Jaén Ferrer moved to Seville; the local Carlist daily \"\" was subject to heavy censorship measures and its head ceded management to Ferrer in hope to spare the newspaper. However, the Francoist structures were determined not to tolerate dissenting party titles and \"La Unión\" closed on December 31, 1939. Ferrer's position went from bad to worse when he refused to join the new state party, Falange Española Tradicionalista, and its syndicate press structures; as a result, in 1941 he got his press license revoked. It is not clear how Ferrer made a living; at unspecified time he assumed teaching duties in the local and at preparatory courses to entry exams to military academies. It is in the early 1940s that he started publishing \"Historia del tradicionalismo español\", a series which would become the source of income but which also in few years would earn him – still fairly unknown in the Carlist realm across Spain – enormous prestige nationwide.\n\nSince the mid-1940s Ferrer was taking part in resumed meetings of Consejo Nacional Carlista, the National Carlist executive. The nature of his mandate is unclear, as he did not held formal posts in the party structures; it was probably related to his personal friendship with the Carlist leader Manuel Fal Conde, also resident of Seville. Confronted with growing fragmentation and bewilderment among the Traditionalists Ferrer maintained total loyalty to the regent Don Javier and used his pen to fight off competing factions. His 1946 booklet \"Observaciones de un viejo carlista a unas cartas del Conde de Rodezno\" was aimed against those advancing Don Juan as a legitimate Carlist heir. The 1948 booklet \"Observaciones de un viejo carlista sobre las pretensiones de un Príncipe al trono de España\" was aimed against Carloctavismo; offering \"a ultranza\" defense of the regency in insulting style Ferrer ridiculed Carlos VIII and the cause of \"farsa carloenchufista que encubre un carlofascismo de ocasión\". Confronted with apparent stabilization of the regime in 1949 Ferrer advocated change of the Carlist strategy; instead of courting potentially rebellious generals he suggested popular mobilization.\n\nIt is not clear whether uncompromising position of Ferrer from the onset encompassed also suggestions to replace the regency with personal Don Javier's claim to the throne; this stand prevailed among the Carlist executive in the early 1950s and Ferrer remained in line. He co-worked to prepare documents, made public during the Eucharistic Congress in Barcelona in 1952, which acknowledged Don Javier as a legitimist monarch. Unwavering loyalty to the Borbón-Parmas, which was already becoming sort of Ferrer's trademark, was further demonstrated in a booklet released in 1955; anonymous though generally attributed to Ferrer, it was distributed by the Carlist academic youth mostly in Madrid. Designed as response to earlier Franco's meeting with Don Juan and increasing prospects of Alfonsists restoration, the booklet denounced such a possibility as treason to the spirit of July 1936, allegedly shaped by a pact between the Carlists and the military.\n\nFerrer was very uneasy about 1955 Fal's dismissal from political leadership and pro-collaborationist turn of the party. During a 1956 meeting of the executive he warned about a forthcoming Franco-Juanista maneuver dubbed \"Plan Artajo\", yet he remained totally loyal to his king, to the new strategy he sponsored and to the new party leader, José María Valiente; he remained on fairly good terms with the latter. In the late 1950s Ferrer's historiographic production assumed already massive scope and earned him enormous prestige in the party ranks. It was reflected by his continuous presence at executive sessions; in 1960 he was even entrusted with writing sort of a rulebook for organization of Consejo Nacional sittings. In 1961 he entered a newly formed Comisión de Cultura; as censorship eased, he contributed to Comisión's mouthpiece \"Reconquista\", bulletins of Circulos Vázquez de Mella and other new periodicals like \"Montejurra\".\n\nUntil the early 1960s Ferrer's actual impact on Carlist politics remained marginal; his position was rather this of a patriarch, scarcely involved in day-to-day business. This changed when discrepancies between the old Traditionalist guard and the unorthodox Carlist youth became visible. Ferrer tended to side with the latter, guided not that much by their theoretical innovations but rather by their absolute and unconditional loyalty to the Borbón-Parmas. In 1961 he opposed attempts to set up a board co-ordinating Carlist propaganda, put forward by orthodoxes concerned with new tones advanced by periodicals like \"Azada y Asta\". Ferrer remained also on excellent terms with leader of the youth, Don Javier's oldest son Don Carlos Hugo, though initially he was perplexed by the bachelor status of the prince. When the Traditionalists, led by José Luis Zamanillo, started to mount an opposition strategy against the Hugocarlistas, Ferrer did not hesitate to confront them. In 1962 he accused Zamanillo – due to his requeté past enormously respected in the party ranks – of inactivity.\n\nIn 1963 the showdown between Zamanillo-led Traditionalists and Massó-led Hugocarlistas was already in full swing. Ferrer threw his authority behind the latter and released a memorandum, charging Zamanillo and the review \"Siempre\" with mounting a pro-Juanista plot. Dubbing himself \"the bellboy of Carlism\" Ferrer noted he was happy to keep the door open for Zamanillo to leave, in aggressive and mocking tone lambasting also other dissidents like Sivatte or Cora. His stand might have tipped the balance; Zamanillo was expulsed and control of the party slipped to the Hugocarlistas. Last years of Ferrer's life are marked by attempts to reinforce the position of Don Carlos Hugo. In 1964 he fathered a booklet intended to demonstrate the rights of Borbón-Parmas to Spanish citizenship, a document the prince had in hand when talking to Franco. Then he drafted analysis advancing their right to the Spanish throne; it was used during a grand Carlist gathering in 1965 in Puchheim, where Don Javier confirmed his royal claim. Ferrer himself was already unable to attend; he was rewarded by Orden de la Legitimidad Proscrita, a high Carlist honor awarded by the claimants.\n\nFerrer was educated to be an engineer and his professional career is usually described as this of a periodista, though perhaps not a very successful one. He demonstrated no particular interest in history until in the mid-1930s he penned a few articles discussing the Carlist past, especially \"La dirección política de la Comunión Tradicionalista desde 1876\". According to some authors already during his idle years in Jaén of the Civil War he started gathering materials for a general history of Carlism. According to others he acted on suggestion of Fal Conde, who in 1939 proposed that in order to maintain Carlist identity in wake of political amalgamation into one Francoist state party, a general history of Carlism was badly needed. One more group of scholars claim that Ferrer and his collaborators commenced their work to counter \"Historia de la guerra civil y de los partidos liberal y carlista\" by , a 19th-century study which until 1939 was the only work serving as the overall history of the movement. In 1939 a former Carlist militant Roman Oyarzun published the first concise historiographic account of Carlism, \"Historia del Carlismo\", yet his work was greeted with mixed feelings among the Carlists. Many considered Oyarzun's book an unorthodox attempt and were near to dismissing it altogether, still calling for sort of an \"official\" Carlist history.\n\nIn 1941 Ferrer and two other Seville-based authors, José F. Acedo Castilla and Domingo Tejera de Quesada, published in the local Editorial Católica Española the first volume of \"Historia del tradicionalismo español\", intended as a general, in-depth history of Carlism. The team kept working on further volumes, though contribution of each of its members is difficult to gauge; Tejera passed away in 1944 yet all 11 volumes published until 1949 were attributed to all three authors. As Acedo left orthodox Carlism, starting volume XII Ferrer was named as the sole author. He managed to keep momentum and there were 18 volumes published in 15 years until 1956; during the following 5 years Ferrer completed subsequent 11 volumes, in 1960 releasing volume XXIX and bringing the narrative to the year of 1931.\n\nFerrer kept working on consecutive volumes, yet he did not live to see them released. According to one author, the delay was caused by problems with censorship; eventually volume XXX, covering the period of 1931-1936, was edited posthumously by Enrique Roldán González and released in 1979, attributed to Ferrer only. In total \"Historia del tradicionalismo español\" amounts to around 9,300 pages; each volume includes some 50-150 pages of documental appendices and a bibliography. The series clearly focuses on military history; the First Carlist War is covered in 15 volumes and the Third Carlist War is treated in 4 volumes, while 32 years in-between both conflicts deserved just 5 volumes; 33 years of 1876-1909 are discussed in just 1 volume and 22 years of 1909-1931 in another. A concise version of the massive work was released by Ferrer in 1958 as \"Breve historia del legitimismo español\".\n\nCompared to Ferrer's massive historiographic production his theoretical works seem minor and scarce; they amount to two booklets, \"Síntesis del programa de la Comunión Tradicionalista Española\" (1931) and \"Bases de la Representación\" (1942), apart from a handful of analytical articles scattered across Carlist periodicals of the 1930s and tens of contributions to daily press, especially those formatted as editorials to \"El Correo Español\". They demonstrate that Ferrer nurtured a penchant for political theory, yet in history of Traditionalist thought he merits attention as perhaps the most eminent case of a Carlist thinker influenced by integral nationalism; the impact of L'Action Française is especially evident in Ferrer's earlier writings.\n\nFrom his youth Ferrer remained impressed by writings of Charles Maurras; his decision to join the French army in 1914 is at times attributed to Ferrer's admiration for the Frenchman and his concepts. In general terms they prompted Ferrer to advocate renewal of Carlism; unlike many, he totally disregarded Vázquez de Mella and considered Traditionalism of the 1920s stuck in Romanticism, old esthetics and 19-th century schemes. His intention was to blend Traditionalism and modernity. Specifically, Ferrer tried to re-define the role of nation and state in the Carlist theoretical framework. Both concepts were usually neglected if not mistrusted by Carlist thinkers; Ferrer considered them crucial for modern outlook and strove to ensure their central position within the Traditionalist ideological toolset. Indeed, some scholars consider him the disciple of Domingo Cirici Ventalló and follower of his \"españolismo Catalan\". In terms of economy Ferrer acknowledged collapse of the Liberal order, challenged by social utopias on the one hand and technocratic estatismo on another; his own recipé was \"reorganización corporativa\".\n\nIn the 1930s Ferrer followed Maurras diagnosing that France was trapped in permanent parliamentarian crisis, longing for a strong executive. He shared anti-parliamentarian stand of the Nazis yet deplored their ethnicity-based nationalism and drive for social engineering; Ferrer sympathized rather with Hugenberg. He preferred Italian Fascism, born out of fundamental opposition to the spirit of 1789, liberalism and individual rights and offering a syndical approach of concerting all social interests. However, he noted that armed with Traditionalism, Spain needed no foreign models; some see it as Ferrer's refusal to accept \"física social\" of Comtean positivism, forming the basics of Maurras’ integral nationalism. Admirer of L'Action Française, Ferrer despised its Spanish copy, Acción Española, and charged Carlists involved in the project, especially Pradera, with \"tradicionalismo de corto alcance\". Disdainful towards emerging Francoism, Ferrer thought it an anti-Traditionalist regime. In opposition to the new Cortes, considered born out of \"origen revolucionario\", he specified his own vision of representation. It was to be based on regional diets, each composed of 4 separate chambers and constructed in line with local tradition. They in turn were supposed to delegate members of the national diet;. its authority was to be limited to supra-regional issues like foreign affairs, army or money.\n\nWhen in 1941 volume I of \"Historia\" went to print Ferrer was scarcely known beyond the realm of Catalan and Cantabrian Carlists; when in 1960 volume XXIX reached the market among the Carlists he was already the ultimate authority on the past; though there were controversies about treatment of particular episodes, the opus was accepted as sort an \"official\" Carlist history. Among historians the reception of his work was mixed; massive scale of Ferrer's account earned respect, but especially the back matter raised many eyebrows. A fellow Carlist Jaime del Burgo judged harshly that Ferrer's approach to bibliography was excessively light and that he lacked sufficient source criticism; a strict inspection revealed glaring errors in documents quoted and another scholar identified 64 inaccuracies on just 4 pages of one of the appendices, in 1967 delivering a damning judgement that \"Historia\" was \"a work with no scientific value\".\n\nToday the adjective accepted almost unanimously when describing \"Historia\" is \"monumental\". It reflects the scope and breadth of the work, which as a party history is perhaps unique globally; even the massive Soviet \"История Коммунистической партии Советского Союза\" pales in comparison. Apart from size, all other features are acknowledged in widely different terms. To some, Ferrer is \"a Carlist Herodotus\". According to an opinion repeated also in less definite wording, \"no-one should dare to write a single line about Carlism without consulting Ferrer first\" and indeed, one PhD dissertation quoted Ferrer no less than 164 times; almost every work on Carlist history prior to mid-20th century contains tens of similar references. More balanced comments praise Ferrer principally for exhaustive data provided; at times he is also commended for scientific rigor, combination of erudition and readability; vast documentary part, attractive writing style, personal familiarity with persons/issues and, last but not least, passion. Among the Carlists Ferrer is credited for offering an alternative to Liberal reading and clearing history of the movement from unjust imputations.\n\nCarlist passion is also held against Ferrer, who is offered a dubious praise of \"the greatest Carlist historian\" or \"probablamente el más importante de los historiadores carlistas\", his work dubbed \"la principal obra surgida de las filas carlistas\". He is usually stigmatized as \"traditionalist historian\". All the above is a euphemism for bias, the allegation raised straightforwardly when Ferrer is charged with \"sectarismo\", presented as apologetic partisan, panegyric zealot, hagiographer or simply representative of \"linea tradicionalista\"; some critics reveal their own preferences when charging Ferrer with \"parcialidad reaccionaria\". Other faults attributed are poor command of sources, overfocus on military issues, scarce social background, poor integrity, overplaying personal issues and downplaying ideological differences, confusing and difficult to follow narrative, factual errors and distorted appendices. Some attribute merely \"mediocre value\" to the series, some are more severe and either note that \"Historia\" should be eliminated from bibliographies or refer to Ferrer as \"historiador\" in quotation marks. Some settle for conclusion that despite \"enormous criticism received\" the work remains obligatory lecture for any student of Carlism, fundamental and \"la obra de referencia\".\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "28054027", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28054027", "title": "Our Lady Mediatrix of All Graces", "text": "Our Lady Mediatrix of All Graces\n\nMary, Mediatrix of All Grace (; ; ) is a Marian apparition that allegedly took place in the Carmelite Monastery of Lipa, Batangas, Philippines, to a former Carmelite postulant, Teresita Castillo. The apparition is known in the Philippines for the rose petals which allegedly fell within the vicinity of the monastery; some of these bear religious images, and are held by some to be miraculous. The Roman Catholic Church does not approve nor endorse the alleged apparition, which was ruled as \"non-supernatural\" by the Congregation of the Doctrine of the Faith in September 2015.\n\nInitially declared \"non-supernatural\" after a thorough investigation by six Filipino bishops headed by Cardinal Rufino Santos on 11 April 1951, the case was reopened in 1991 with extensive research and investigation. In a reversal of fortune, on 12 September 2015, the Archbishop of Lipa Ramón Argüelles, against explicit direction from the Holy See and the Bishops' Conference of the Philippines, formally approved the apparitions, declaring them \"supernatural in character and worthy of belief.\"\n\nOn 3 March 2011, Pope Benedict XVI was presented with a statue of the apparition by Bishop Guillermo Afable during the Catholic Bishops' Conference of the Philippines Ad Limina visit. On 9 March 2011, a life-sized Mediatrix statue brought by Filipino bishops was publicly displayed in the general Wednesday papal audience at Pope Paul VI Audience Hall. The original image is currently enshrined at the Lipa Carmelite Monastery, Batangas, Philippines. Devotees of Mary under this title are also closely affiliated with the movement pressuring the Holy See in to declaring the Blessed Virgin Mary as Co-Redemptrix.\n\nOn 11 December 2015, the Congregation of the Doctrine of the Faith ruled out that the Marian apparition are definitively non-supernatural based on the coerced negative verdict of six Filipino bishops in 1951 and the alleged confirmation of the same verdict by Pope Pius XII in the 1960s. The Archbishop of Lipa received the official copy on May 31 of final verdict. On 1 June 2016, Archbishop Arguelles released a public statement retracting his episcopal judgment on the controversial matter, reverting to the decision issued by the Vatican.\n\nThe Blessed Virgin Mary as \"Mediatrix\" is a proposed Marian dogma that is still debated by Catholic theologians; this is sometimes further defined by the title Mediatrix of all graces. It has its origins in Belgium where devotion under this title began, and the same Marian title was consecrated by Catholic bishops in China from 1946. The title given at Lipa was \"Mediatrix of All Grace,\" (instead of the common 'of all graces' - plural and lower case). In Lipa, it is singular and upper case, meaning - a proper noun. Sr. Teresita has confirmed that \"All-Grace\" refers to Jesus or God (whom we refer too, as \"All Holy,\" \"Almighty,\" \"All Knowing\").\n\nAccording to Teresita Castillo, the Virgin Mary was slightly stooped and dressed in white, with a narrow cloth belt about her waist. Her indescribably beautiful face was radiant, and her statues often show her dark hair flowing down her back underneath her white veil. Her hands are clasped on her breast, and a golden rosary hangs from her right hand. She is shown barefoot, and resting on clouds about two feet above the ground.\n\nOn August 18, 1948, Teresita Castillo—then a postulant at the monastery—noticed a heavenly odour, and upon entering her room saw a beautiful Lady in white who spoke to her: \"Do not fear my daughter, He who loves above all things has sent me. I come with a message…\" The Lady asked Sister Teresita to wash and kiss the feet of her Prioress, and drink the used water afterwards. The Lady said that the washing was a \"sign of humility and obedience\".\n\nAccording to the account, on September 12, 1948, Castillo was in the convent garden and noticed a vine shaking without any wind blowing. She then heard a woman's voice that instructed her to visit the garden for 15 consecutive days. The next day, September 13, Teresita came to the spot at 5:00 p.m., knelt down and intended to say the Hail Mary. In the middle of the prayer, wind came, the garden vine moved, and a beautiful Lady appeared. Castillo described the Lady as having her hands clasped in prayer and holding a golden Rosary in her right hand. The Lady asked her to pray for priests and nuns.\n\nOn September 14, rose petals began to shower within the monastery, and some of the nuns noticed rose petals outside their hallways. Again at 5:00 p.m., the Lady appeared once more at the vine and said \"I wish this place to be blessed tomorrow.\" \"At what time, Mother,\" asked Teresita. \"Anytime your Mother Prioress wants, my child. I forbid you to forget the incidents of these fifteen days.\" Then the Lady vanished.\n\nThe Prioress, Mother Mary Cecilia of Jesus, decided to consult with Servant of God Most Reverend Alfredo Obviar, Auxiliary Bishop of Lipa and spiritual director of the nuns. The bishop instructed the Prioress to demand proof from the Lady that she is from Heaven.\n\nDays after the first shower of rose petals, total blindness affected Castillo. Mother Mary Cecilia of Jesus then heard a woman's voice telling her to kiss the postulant's eyes so that the latter will recover her sight. In the presence of Bishop Obviar, the Prioress lifted Castillo's veil and kissed the postulant's eyes. Immediately, the girl recovered her sight, and Bishop Obviar no longer doubted the apparitions.\n\nAccording to a later interview with the Prioress, Mother Mary of the Sacred Heart and Sister Mary Balthazar were ordered to burn several boxes containing leaflefts, novena booklets, rose petals, and other paraphernalia pertaining to the apparition, including Castillo's personal diary. The sisters were also ordered by the bishop to throw the image of the Virgin into a bonfire, but they instead hid it out of piety.\n\nCastillo herself in an interview said she had met the Apostolic Nuncio to the Philippines Cardinal Egidio Vagnozzi in 1951, and told him that she had already left the monastery to seek medical treatment. Cardinal Vagnozzi strongly disapproved, called Castillo the Devil, and asked her to leave his presence, even trying to shove her out the door. Castillo burst into tears and begged for his blessing, which he withheld.\n\nThe current Archbishop of Lipa, Ramón Argüelles, noted that Bishop Obviar and Bishop Verzosa, who were on the commission, were forced to leave the investigation due to their lack of jurisdiction over Lipa. In a televised interview with ABS-CBN, Argüelles said no documents were compiled or even reached the Holy See in 1951, causing its immediate rejection. In 1991, a petition to approve the apparition began once again.\n\nAn initial investigation report in 1951 was signed by six Roman Catholic bishops and declared the Lipa apparitions a hoax and \"non-supernatural\". One bishop later recanted on his deathbed, and a second investigation was opened in 1991.\n\nOn 21 May 1990, then-Lipa Archbishop Mariano G. Gaviola, allowed the venerated image of Our Lady to be exposed again, after 40 years of being banned from the public. Devotion was reinkindled and devotees increase to this day.\n\nOn 17 April 2005, Archbishop Argüelles issued a circular, stating that he found no objection to the devotion under this Marian title. The Archdiocese of Lipa currently endorses Marian devotion to this title, which is not expressly prohibited as long as it does not counter Church doctrine. In Batangas province, local bishops often tolerate the devotion, which has drawn adherents including Filipino celebrities and politicians.\n\nOn 12 September 2015, Archbishop Argüelles formally released the canonical results of the investigation launched by the archdiocese, declaring the Marian apparitions to be \"supernatural in character and worthy of pious belief\". At present, a postulate for Canonical Coronation is pending submission to Pope Francis for pontifical approbation.\n\nHowever, in May 2016, the Sacred Congregation of the Doctrine of the Faith (CDF) under Cardinal Gerhard Mueller overruled the archbishop and rejected his 2012 decree declaring that the alleged Marian apparitions in Batangas in 1948 were authentic. Arguelles himself disclosed the ruling by the CDF in an archdiocesan communiqué on May 31. In its decree, the Congregation stated that Pope Pius XII had made a definitive confirmation in 1951 against the supposed apparitions declaring that they \"were not of supernatural origin,\" which the local authority had no authority to overrule.\n\nFormer President of the Philippines Corazon Aquino had a close affinity with the Lipa Carmelite Monastery, which she visited often. Her later successor, President Gloria Macapagal Arroyo, was also a frequent visitor to the convent, and on the Feast of the Assumption in 2007 signed Proclamation № 1362, declaring every 12 September a \"National Day of Prayer for Peace and Reconciliation\" in honor of the Lipa apparitions.\n\nThe current Philippine Ambassador to the Holy See, Mercedes Arrastia Tuason, is a devotee of the apparitions, and displays a large statue of Our Lady Mediatrix of All Grace in her consular office in Rome. Emma de Guzman, purported visionary, stigmatist and foundress of the Church-sanctioned \"La Pietà\" International Prayer Group, said that Mary had declared herself to be \"the Mediatrix standing in front of the Mediator\".\n\nDuring his visit to Tacloban on 17 January 2015, Pope Francis venerated a replica of the image at the residence of the Archbishop of Palo.\n\nOn 1 June 2015, a replica of the image was venerated and processed in the Church of Saint Catherine adjoining the Church of the Nativity in Bethlehem, and was attended by the Custos of the Holy Land, Pierbattista Pizzaballa, OFM.\n\n"}
{"id": "8739107", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8739107", "title": "Pagans Hill Roman temple", "text": "Pagans Hill Roman temple\n\nThe Pagans Hill Roman Temple was a Romano-British-style temple (Romano-Celtic temple) excavated on Pagans Hill at Chew Stoke in the English county of Somerset.\n\nThe temple was on a promontory overlooking the River Chew. It was excavated by Philip Rahtz between 1949 and 1953. In addition to the foundations of the temple a well (17 metres deep) and several ditches were found which contained small artifacts showing occupation of the site before the Roman period including pottery of Iron Age type, and a coin dating from c. 335–337 CE. Evidence of continuing use after the Roman period is provided by a bucket and an exotic 7th century glass jar found in the well.\n\nIt was originally thought, on its discovery in 1830, to have been a beacon, for signalling between adjoining hill forts.\n\nIt was a double-octagonal temple building comprised an inner wall, which formed the \"cella\" or sanctuary, surrounded by an outer wall forming an ambulatory, or covered walkway. The outer portico measures about 56½ feet in diameter, the inner cellar about 32 feet across. All walls were about 3 feet thick. Along each wall were two features described by Rahtz as buttresses but were more likely to have been pilasters, as their small size would render them ineffective as wall supports. Warwick Rodwell suggests that the ambulatory would have been cross-vaulted and the pilasters used as external supports for this. This would allow for a good deal of natural light to circulate the building and give an aesthetically balanced look to the structure. The ambulatory would then give the illusion of a labyrinth of side chambers running off from the central area.\n\nThe site formed a large pilgrimage centre including guest houses and priest's house as well as the octagonal temple and holy well.\n\nThe temple faced east and was first built in the late-3rd century, possibly to the god Mercury. After the collapse of the original building another temple was built, which again fell into ruin. The final rebuild, after about 367 CE included the addition of an internal screen. The latest dateable coin found at the site was of Arcadius (383–408). The last building collapsed in the 5th century.\n\nThe site of the temple is on the aptly named Pagans Hill, although that name is modern and any link to the site in the naming of the road has been lost.\n\nAmong the artefacts found in the well approximately 15 meters west of the temple foundations, was an unusual sculpture of a dog with collar. The statue was in four sections, measured 63 cm in height overall and was made of Doulting Stone, a limestone, as still quarried today at Doulting Stone Quarry.\n\n"}
{"id": "14017924", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14017924", "title": "Peripteros", "text": "Peripteros\n\nA peripteros (a peripteral building, ) is a type of ancient Greek or Roman temple surrounded by a portico with columns. It is surrounded by a colonnade (\"pteron\") on all four sides of the \"cella\" (\"naos\"), creating a four-sided arcade (peristasis, or peristyle). By extension, it also means simply the perimeter of a building (typically a classical temple), when that perimeter is made up of columns. The term is frequently used of buildings in the Doric order.\n\nThe peripteros can be a portico, a kiosk or a chapel. If it is made up of four columns, it is a tetrastyle; of 6, hexastyle; of 8, octastyle; of 10, decastyle; and of 12, dodecastyle. If the columns are fitted into the wall instead of standing alone, the building is a pseudo-peripteros.\n"}
{"id": "8023588", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8023588", "title": "Pinax", "text": "Pinax\n\nIn the modern study of the culture of ancient Greece and Magna Graecia, a pinax (πίναξ) (plural pinakes - πίνακες), meaning \"board\", is a votive tablet of painted wood, or terracotta, marble or bronze relief that served as a votive object deposited in a sanctuary or as a memorial affixed within a burial chamber. \nSuch \"pinakes\" feature in the classical collections of most comprehensive museums.\n\nTo the ancient Greeks \"pinax\" seems also to have been a general term for a plate, but this is generally not followed in modern archaeological usage. In daily life \"pinax\" might equally denote a wax-covered writing tablet. In Christian contexts, painted icons (\"images\") are \"pinakes\". In the theatre of ancient Greece, they were images probably usually painted on cloth, but also carved either in stone or wood, that were hung behind, and sometimes below, the stage area as scenery, or as permanent decoration. The term pinacotheca for a picture gallery derives from such usages.\n\nWhen they are recovered by archaeologists, painted wooden \"pinakes\" have usually lost all but faint traces of their painted images - the Pitsa panels being the outstanding exception. Moulded terracotta \"pinakes\" were also brightly painted. Marble \"pinakes\" were individually carved, but terracotta ones were impressed in molds, and bronze ones might be repeatedly cast from a model from which wax and resin impressions were made, in the technique called lost wax casting. \n\nA few elaborate gold plaques have survived from the 7th century BC, many made in Rhodes, with deity figures, especially Artemis, shown in an orientalizing Daedalic style.\n\nThey often have two holes for a suspension cord, and are shown in vase-paintings both hanging on temple walls, and also suspended from trees in the sanctuary area. The Roman architect Vitruvius mentions the \"pinakes\" in the cellas of temples, and even in the possession of private persons. Such a collection was a \"pinakothek\", which is a modern German term for an art museum, such as the Alte Pinakothek of Munich.\n\nCallimachus, the Alexandrian poet and scholar at the Library of Alexandria, formed a kind of index, or \"map picture\" of the library's contents, which he named \"Pinakes\", a term that continued in use in bibliographic catalogs.\n\nAt Locri in southern Italy, thousands of carefully buried \"pinakes\" have been recovered, most of them from the sanctuary of Persephone or that of Aphrodite. Another large group of over 1,000 pottery pinakes was found at the site of Penteskouphia, just outside Corinth. These are mostly in the Antikensammlung Berlin, with some in Corinth and the Louvre. As well as the usual religious scenes, some of these show depictions of potters at work. Berlin also has a smaller group of fragments from the Kerameikos cemetery in Athens, many by the painter Exekias.\n\nIn Etruscan art, rather larger terracotta plaques than are typical in Greek art have been found in tombs, some forming a series that creates in effect a portable wall-painting. Wealthy Etruscan families often had tombs with painted walls, which the Greeks did not. The \"Boccanera\" tomb at the Banditaccia necropolis at Cerveteri contained five panels almost a metre high set round the wall, which are now in the British Museum. Three of them form a single scene, apparently the Judgement of Paris, while the other two flanked the inside of the entrance, with sphinxes acting as tomb guardians. They date to about 560 BC. Fragments of similar panels have been found in city centre sites, presumably from temples, elite houses and other buildings, where the subjects include scenes of everyday life.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "27157718", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27157718", "title": "Polydorus (son of Priam)", "text": "Polydorus (son of Priam)\n\nPolydorus (Polydoros; ) is the youngest son of Priam and Hecuba in the mythology of the Trojan War. Polydorus is an example of the fluid nature of myth, as his role and story vary significantly in different traditions and sources.\n\nIn Homer's Greek epic the \"Iliad\", Polydorus is depicted briefly as a foe to Achilles. According to this source, Polydorus was the youngest son of Priam, and thus his father would not let him fight. Achilles, however, sees him on the battlefield showing off his great speed running through the lines and spears him, ending his life. Seeing his brother Polydorus’ death causes Hector to challenge Achilles.\n\nIn Euripides' tragedy \"Hecuba\", the ghost of Polydorus is a character, and his death is the cause of the main conflict of the play. Polydorus’ ghost presents the prologue of the play, explaining that he was sent to Thrace under the protection of King Polymestor in case Troy fell. With his son, Priam sent gold so that if Troy should fall his son could continue to support himself. Once Troy fell, however, Polymestor killed Polydorus by throwing him into the sea and stole the gold. Polydorus laments the fact that his body is adrift in the sea without the proper death rites.\n\nLater in the play, a slave woman tells Hecuba that Polydorus’ body has been found washed up on shore. Hecuba explains that she saw the murderer of Polydorus in a dream and it is Polymestor. Aided by Agamemnon and the other captive women, Hecuba proceeds to avenge her son’s murder by killing Polymestor’s sons and blinding him. This same story of Polydorus is the subject of an episode in Ovid’s \"Metamorphoses\".\n\nIn Vergil's Roman epic the \"Aeneid\", Aeneas lands in Thrace hoping to establish a colony for his people. The land is overgrown with various plants, and as Aeneas begins to uproot a bush of Myrtle, which he sees growing on mysterious mound, so that he can protect an altar he has just made with the boughs. The branches begin to spout blood upon being uprooted. The plant begins to speak and explains that it is Polydorus - the spears that were used to kill him stuck into the ground and took root, transforming into plants. It is explained that Priam sent Polydorus to Thrace with payment to the Thracian king so that he would be protected if Troy fell. When Troy did fall, the king broke his pact with the Trojans, killed Polydorus in order to ingratiate himself with Agamemnon and kept the payment. Aeneas goes on to give Polydorus a proper burial.\n\nAccording to the tradition of Hyginus’ \"Fabulae\", Priam and Hecuba entrusted Polydorus’ upbringing to his sister, Iliona, who was the wife of Polymestor. In order to ensure Polydorus’ safety, she raised him as her own son, while she raised her and Polymestor’s true son, Deipylus, as her brother. After the fall of Troy, the Achaeans offered Polymestor Agamemnon’s daughter Electra to be his wife if he killed Polydorus. Polymestor agreed, but because of the switch that Iliona executed, he instead killed Deipylus.\n\nAs this occurred, Polydorus went to the oracle of Apollo in order to learn of his true parentage. Here he was told that his home city had been destroyed, his father killed, and his mother captured. Upon returning home, and still believing that he was the son of Polymestor and Iliona, he asked Iliona why the oracle had been wrong, at which point she tells him the truth of his ancestry. He proceeds to blind and kill Polymestor at his sister’s advice.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "53344", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53344", "title": "Puck (folklore)", "text": "Puck (folklore)\n\nIn English folklore, Puck (), sometimes known as Robin Goodfellow, is a domestic and nature sprite, demon, or fairy.\n\nThe etymology of \"puck\" is uncertain. The modern English word is attested already in Old English as \"puca\" (with a diminutive form \"pucel\"). Similar words are attested later in Old Norse (\"púki\", with related forms including Old Swedish \"puke\", Icelandic \"púki\", and Frisian \"puk\") but also in the Celtic languages (Welsh \"pwca\", Cornish \"bucca\" and Irish \"púca\"). Most commentators think that the word was borrowed from one of these neighbouring north-west European languages into the others, but it is not certain in what direction the borrowing went, and all vectors have been proposed by scholars. The \"Oxford English Dictionary\" favoured a Scandinavian origin, but the most recent scholarly study argues for an Irish origin, on the basis that the word is widely distributed in Irish place-names, whereas \"puck\"-place-names in English are rare and late in the areas showing Old Norse influence, and seem rather to radiate outwards from the south-west of England, which arguably had Irish influence during the early medieval period.\n\nThe term pixie is in origin a diminutive of \"puck\".\n\nPuck may also be called \"Robin Goodfellow or \"Hobgoblin\", in which \"Hob\" may substitute for \"Rob\" or may simply refer to the \"goblin of the hearth\" or hob. The name \"Robin\" is Middle English in origin, deriving from Old French \"Robin\", the pet form for the name Robert. The earliest reference to \"Robin Goodfellow\" cited by the \"Oxford English Dictionary\" is from 1531. \nAnthony Munday mentions Robin Goodfellow in his play \"The Two Italian Gentlemen\", 1584, and he appears in \"Skialtheia, or a Shadowe of Truth\" in 1598. William Shakespeare may have had access to the manuscript of Lewes Lewkenor's translation of \"The Spanish Mandevile of Miracles, or, The Garden of Curious Flowers\" (1600) a translation of Antonio de Torquemada's, \"Jardin Flores Curiosas\". The following passage from \"The Spanish Mandeville\" discusses the mischievous spirits:\nAfter Meyerbeer's successful opera \"Robert le Diable\" (1831), neo-medievalists and occultists began to apply the name \"Robin Goodfellow\" to the Devil, with appropriately extravagant imagery.\n\nIf you had the knack, Puck might do minor housework for you, quick fine needlework or butter-churning, which could be undone in a moment by his knavish tricks if you displeased him. He may also do work for you if you leave him small gifts, such as a glass of milk or other such treats, otherwise he may do the opposite by \"make[ing] the drink[beer] to bear no barm\" and other such fiendish acts. Pucks are also known to be inherently lonely creatures, and often share the goal of acquiring friends. \"Those that Hob-goblin call you, and sweet Puck, / You do their work, and they shall have good luck\" said one of William Shakespeare's fairies. Shakespeare's characterization of \"shrewd and knavish\" Puck in \"A Midsummer Night's Dream\" may have revived flagging interest in Puck.\n\nAccording to \"Brewer's Dictionary of Phrase and Fable\" (1898):\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3378533", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3378533", "title": "Religion in Denmark", "text": "Religion in Denmark\n\nOf all the religions in Denmark, the most prominent is Christianity in the form of the Evangelical Lutheran Church of Denmark (Dansk Folkekirke), the state religion. Hence, Denmark is not a secular state as there is a clear link between the church and the state with a Minister for Ecclesiastical Affairs. However, pockets of other major faiths can be found among the population. In January 2017, 75.9% of the population of Denmark were registered members of the Church of Denmark (), the officially established church, which is Protestant in classification and Lutheran in orientation. This is down 1.0% compared to the year earlier and 1.9% down compared to two years earlier. Despite the high membership figures, only 3% of the population regularly attend Sunday services and only 19% of Danes consider religion to be an important part of their life. \n\nAccording to the latest Eurobarometer estimates, as of 2015, 78.2% of Danish people are Christians (67.4% are Protestant, 2.0% are Orthodox and 1.3 are Catholics), 19.7% are non-religious and 2.1% are members of other religions.\n\nAccording to a Eurobarometer Poll conducted in 2010, 28% of Danish citizens responded that \"they believe there is a God\", 47% responded that \"they believe there is some sort of spirit or life force\" and 24% responded that \"they do not believe there is any sort of spirit, God or life force\". Another poll, carried out in 2008, found that 25% of Danes believe Jesus is the son of God, and 18% believe he is the saviour of the world. A gallup report in 2009 found that only 19% of Danes consider religion to be an important part of their life.\n\nJust under 20% of the Danish population identifies as atheist. Phil Zuckerman, an American professor of sociology, after spending 14 months in Sweden and Denmark talking to hundreds of people about religion, reported that they were “often disinclined or hesitant to talk with [prof. Zuckerman] about religion, and even once they agreed to do so, they usually had very little to say on the matter.”\n\nMany Danish people define themselves as spiritual but not religious.\n\nChristianity is the predominant religion of Denmark, with three quarters of the Danish population estimated as adherents of the \"Folkekirken\" (\"People's Church\"), Denmark's national Lutheran church. Aside from Lutheranism, there is a small Catholic minority, as well as small Protestant denominations such as the Baptist Union of Denmark and the Reformed Synod of Denmark.\n\nAccording to official statistics from January 2017, 75.9% of the population of Denmark are members of the Evangelical Lutheran Church of Denmark (), the country's state church since the Reformation in Denmark–Norway and Holstein, and designated \"the Danish people's church\" by the 1848 Constitution of Denmark.\n\nThere are around 4,000 Christians who have converted from a Muslim background in the country, most of them belonging to some form of Protestantism.\n\nA Jewish community has been present in Denmark since the seventeenth century, when the monarchs began allowing Jews to enter the country and practice their religion on an individual basis. Emancipation followed gradually and by the end of the nineteenth century most Jews were fully assimilated into Danish society. In the early decades of the twentieth century there was an influx of more secular, Yiddish speaking, Eastern European Jews. Nearly 99% of Danish Jews survived the Holocaust, in part due to the actions of the Danish resistance, and to the Swedish authorities' offer of asylum to the Danish Jews.\n\nToday there are approximately 10,000 ethnic Jews in Denmark, and three synagogues located in Copenhagen.\n\nMuslims living in Denmark make up approximately 3% of the population and form the country's second largest religious community and largest minority religion. As of 2009 there are nineteen recognised Muslim communities in Denmark. Ahmadi Muslims constructed the first mosque in the capital, Copenhagen. There were approximately 600 Ahmadis all over Denmark in 2006.\n\nAccording to a survey of various religions and denominations undertaken by the Danish Foreign Ministry, other religious groups comprise less than 1% of the population individually and approximately 2% when taken all together.\n\nThe Baha'i Faith arrived in Denmark in 1925, but it did not make much impact until the arrival of American pioneers in 1946. A National Spiritual Assembly was formed in 1962. In 2005, it was estimated that there were about 1,251 Baha'is in the country.\n\nBuddhism in Denmark was brought back from expeditions that explored the Indian subcontinent. Initial interest was mainly from intellectuals, authors, Buddhologists and Philologists. In 1921, Christian F. Melbye founded the first Buddhist Society in Denmark, but it was later dissolved in 1950 before his death in 1953. In the 1950s, there was a revival in interest towards Buddhism, especially Tibetan Buddhism and Hannah and Ole Nydahl, founded the first Karma Kagyu Buddhist centers in Copenhagen. The third wave of Buddhism came in the 1980s, when refugees from Vietnam, Sri Lanka and China came to Denmark.\n\nIn 2009 Aarhus University estimated that there were 20,000 practising Buddhists in Denmark.\n\nA neopagan religious group, Forn Siðr — Ásatrú and Vanatrú Association in Denmark, describes itself as a revival of the Norse paganism prevalent in Denmark before Christianization. It gained state recognition in November 2003. There are about 500 registered heathens (0.01% of the population) adhering to the old Norse beliefs.\n\nIn 2016, the Valheim Hof was established in Korinth.\n\nPoliticians in Denmark will not generally be found making use of any religious rhetoric or arguments in their declarations, and this is especially the case for government ministers, with the possible, occasional exception of the Minister for Ecclesiastical Affairs in the course of his or her duties. Four of Denmark's prime ministers have identified themselves as atheists.\n\nThe Christian Democrats is the only major political party to regularly employ religious rhetoric and arguments, and they have not been represented in the Folketing since 2001, as they have not been able to acquire the minimum 2% of the votes needed to secure a seat.\n\nThe Constitution of Denmark contains a number of sections related to religion.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "22163740", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22163740", "title": "San Pascualito", "text": "San Pascualito\n\nSan Pascualito (also known as San Pascualito Muerte and El Rey San Pascual) is a folk saint associated with Saint Paschal Baylon and venerated in Guatemala and the Mexican state of Chiapas. He is called \"King of the Graveyard.\" His veneration is associated with the curing of disease, and is related to the Latin American cult of death. The tradition may be related to the worship of a pre-Columbian death god. San Pascualito is represented as a skeleton, sometimes caped or wearing a crown. The veneration of San Pascualito is not approved by the Roman Catholic Church.\n\nSan Pascualito derived his name from the Spanish friar, Paschal Baylon, who according to historian Francisco Antonio de Fuentes y Guzmán, is said to have appeared in 1650 in a vision of an indigenous Guatemalan man in San Antonio Aguacaliente (modern day Ciudad Vieja). The man was dying from an epidemic fever called \"cucumatz\" in Kaqchikel, and had received the last rites before a tall skeleton in glowing robes appeared to him in a vision.\n\nThe figure introduced himself as \"Saint Paschal Baylon,\" although Baylon was not canonized until 1690. (He had been beatified in 1618.) He promised to intercede to end \"cucumatz\" if he were to be adopted by the community as patron saint and his image venerated. As proof of his identity, the figure predicted that the man receiving the vision would die within nine days, at which time the epidemic would also cease. When the man died within the predicted timeframe and the epidemic ended, word of the vision spread, and images of San Pascualito became popular despite formal prohibition by the Spanish Inquisition.\n\nA chapel in Olintepeque, Guatemala is dedicated to the veneration of El Rey San Pascual. Devotees leave thank you notes, offer capes or burn candles. The color of the candle burned signifies the nature of the request for intercession: red for love, pink for health, yellow for protection, green for business, blue for work, light blue for money, purple for help against vices, white for the protection of children, and black for revenge. A festival is celebrated annually on May 17, the feast day of Saint Paschal Baylon. Another sacred replica, represented by a seated skeleton in a wheeled cart, is kept in the Church of San Pascualito in Tuxtla Gutiérrez in the Mexican state of Chiapas.\n\nSan Pascualito is represented by a character named Pascal in the novel \"El tiempo principia en Xibalbá\" (\"Time Commences in Xibalbá\") by Guatemalan author Luis de Lión (José Luis de León Díaz).\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2048173", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2048173", "title": "Searches for Noah's Ark", "text": "Searches for Noah's Ark\n\nSearches for Noah's Ark have been made from at least the time of Eusebius (c.275–339) to the present day. Despite many expeditions, no physical proof of the ark has been reliably identified. Many of the supposed findings and methods are regarded as pseudoscience and pseudoarchaeology by geologists and archaeologists.\n\nModern organized searches for the ark tend to originate in American evangelical circles. According to Larry Eskridge, \nAn interesting phenomenon that has arisen within twentieth-century conservative American evangelism – the widespread conviction that the ancient Ark of Noah is embedded in ice high atop Mount Ararat, waiting to be found. It is a story that has combined earnest faith with the lure of adventure, questionable evidence with startling claims. The hunt for the ark, like evangelism itself, is a complex blend of the rational and the supernatural, the modern and the premodern. While it acknowledges a debt to pure faith in a literal reading of the Scriptures and centuries of legend, the conviction that the Ark literally lies on Ararat is a recent one, backed by a largely twentieth-century canon of evidence that includes stories of shadowy eyewitnesses, tales of mysterious missing photographs, rumors of atheistic conspiracy, and pieces of questionable \"ark wood\" from the mountain. (...) Moreover, it skirts the domain of pop pseudoscience and the paranormal, making the attempt to find the ark the evangelical equivalent of the search for Bigfoot or the Loch Ness monster. In all these ways, it reveals much about evangelicals' distrust of mainstream science and the motivations and modus operandi of the scientific elite.\n\nArk-seeker Richard Carl Bright considers the search for the ark a religious quest, dependent on God's blessing for its success. Bright is also confident that there is a multinational government conspiracy to hide the \"truth\" about the ark:\n\nI firmly believe that the governments of Turkey, Russia, and the United States know exactly where the ark sits. They suppress the information, but (...) God is in charge. The structure will be revealed in its time. We climb the mountain and search, hoping it is, in fact, God's time as we climb. Use us, O Lord, is our prayer.\n\nAccording to Genesis 8:4, the Ark came to rest \"on the mountains of Ararat.\"\nEarly commentators such as Josephus, and authorities quoted by him, Berossus, Hieronymus the Egyptian, Mnaseas, and Nicolaus of Damascus, record the tradition that these \"mountains of Ararat\" are to be found in the region then known as Armenia, roughly corresponding to Eastern Anatolia.\n\nSyrian tradition of the early centuries BC had a tradition of the ark landing at Mount Judi, where according to Josephus the remains of the ark were still shown in the 1st century BC. The location of the \"Place of Descent\" (αποβατηριον, i.e., \"Nakhchivan\") described by Josephus was some 100 km to the southeast of the peak now known as Mount Ararat, in what is today Iraqi Kurdistan.\n\nAccording to Jewish Rabbinic tradition, the Ark was looted in antiquity, the remains being used for idol worship, as related in the Talmud Tractate Sanhedrin by Sennacherib circa 705 – 681 BC, and as related in the Midrash anthology Yalkut Shimoni by Haman circa 486–465 BC.\n\nMarco Polo (1254–1324) wrote in his book, \"The Travels of Marco Polo\":\nSir Walter Raleigh, writing c. 1616, made a laborious argument taking up several whole chapters of his \"History of the World\", that the term \"Mountains of Ararat\" originally encompassed all the adjoining and taller ranges of Asia, and that Noah's Ark could only have landed in the Orient – especially since Armenia is not technically east of the plain of Shinar (or Mesopotamia), but more northwest.\n\n\nSearches since the mid-20th century have been largely supported by evangelical, millenarian churches along with local farmers and sustained by ongoing popular interest, faith-based magazines, lecture tours, videos and occasional television specials.\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "23883376", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23883376", "title": "Shinto in popular culture", "text": "Shinto in popular culture\n\nShinto is frequently a theme in Japanese popular culture, including film, manga, anime, and video games. Shinto religion is at the core of Japanese culture and history and as such greatly affects the outcome of pop culture in modern Japan. The references are pervasive and have significant relevance to modern life in Japan amongst the new generations.\n\nThis page follows discussion of each genre with a list of works in Japanese or international popular culture that borrow significantly from Shinto myths, deities, and beliefs. It is not an exhaustive list of the many games, movies, manga and other cultural products that mention the religion or the names of its deities.\n\nShinto itself features in popular culture as folk Shinto or \"Minkan Shinto\".\n\nShinto motifs and themes such as \"kami\" (gods or spirits) are particularly present in anime and manga.\n\n\nSome Japanese films feature themes from Shinto religion or characters based on \"kami\". This is especially the case in animated films, such as Hayao Miyazaki's \"Princess Mononoke\" or \"Spirited Away\", but can also be seen in live action and \"tokusatsu\" (special-effects driven) films.\n\n\nVideo games may relate to themes or characters from Shinto, as well as Buddhism, Christianity, and other religions. Such games may present a heterodox or alternative take on religion, or even parody traditional practice or belief. In addition to Shinto stories or \"kami\", themes such as the sacredness of nature or the place of magic in everyday life are also visible in such games.\n\nShinto stories or \"kami\" also appear in other works of popular culture, including work set in Japan but produced outside of the country.\n"}
{"id": "303586", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=303586", "title": "Shinui", "text": "Shinui\n\nShinui (, lit. \"Change\") was a Zionist, secular, and anti-clerical free market liberal party and political movement in Israel. The party twice became the third-largest in the Knesset, but both occasions were followed by a split and collapse; in 1977, the party won 15 seats as part of the Democratic Movement for Change, but the alliance split in 1978, and Shinui was reduced to two seats at the next elections. In 2003, the party won 15 seats alone, but lost them all three years later after most of its MKs left to form new parties. The party was a member of Liberal International until 2009.\n\nThough it had been the standard-bearer of liberal economic policy and secular values in Israel for 30 years, the formation of Kadima robbed Shinui of its natural constituency, and in January 2006, the party split into small factions, none of which managed to overcome the 2% threshold needed to enter the Knesset.\n\nAs Israel made its transition from a developing nation into an economically prosperous one, a highly educated middle class emerged, tracing its historical political orientation to Labor Zionism. Many of these Israelis banded together to form Shinui.\n\nShinui was established by business people and academics in 1974, following the 1973 Arab–Israeli Yom Kippur War, which shook the Israeli public. Prior to the 1977 elections, it formed an alliance with several other small liberal parties. Initially, the party was called Democrats-Shinui, but was soon changed to the \"Democratic Movement for Change\", and, as with many parties in Israel, became popularly known by its acronym, \"Dash\". The new party caught the public's imagination, with over 37,000 people signing up as members within a few weeks of its foundation. It also pioneered the use of primaries to choose its electoral list, something that was intended to show its democratic credentials and prevent cronyism. Previously, in Israel, party lists had been decided upon by the parties' committees, but since the late 1970s, almost every party in Israel (with the exception of the Ultra-orthodox ones, Shas and United Torah Judaism) has followed Dash's lead and adopted the primaries system.\n\nThe new party won 15 seats, the best performance by the third party since the 1961 elections. This made it the third-largest party after Menachem Begin's Likud and the Alignment, which had shrunk from 51 to 32 seats. However, Begin was still able to form a narrow 61-seat right-wing coalition with Shlomtzion (Ariel Sharon's party), the National Religious Party, and Agudat Israel.\n\nDash were invited into the coalition in November 1977, five months after the Knesset term had started. The party picked up several ministerial portfolios: Meir Amit was made Minister of Transportation and Minister of Communications, Shmuel Tamir became Minister of Justice, and Yigael Yadin was named as Deputy Prime Minister. However, the fact that Dash did not control the balance of power led to internal disagreements over its role. The alliance began to disintegrate, finally splitting in three on 14 September 1978, with seven MKs breaking away to reform Shinui, another seven founding the Democratic Movement, and Assaf Yaguri creating Ya'ad. Shinui (including Amit) and Ya'ad left the coalition, whilst the Democratic Movement, which included Tamir and Yadin, remained in the government. Two Shinui MKs defected to the Alignment, leaving the party with five seats in 1981.\n\nIn the 1981 elections, the party was reduced to two seats. In 1984, they won three seats, and were invited to join the national unity government, but pulled out of the coalition on 26 May 1987. Although the party gained an MK from the Alignment, it lost Mordechai Virshubski to Ratz. The party was renamed Shinui – The Centre Party during certain periods.\n\nIn the 1988 elections, Shinui was reduced to two seats. Although the party gained an MK from the Alignment, they lost another to Ratz. However, in 1992, it joined with Ratz and Mapam to form the leftist alliance Meretz. The new party won 12 seats in the 1992 elections, and were Yitzhak Rabin's major coalition partners in his Labour-led government.\n\nIn 1996, the three parties decided to officially merge to form a united Meretz party. Although Shinui leader Amnon Rubinstein supported the merger, most party members sought to distance themselves from the leftist social-democratic elements in Meretz. Two MKs (out of the nine Meretz won in the 1996 elections) broke away to re-establish Shinui as an independent party in 1997 under the leadership of Avraham Poraz.\n\nPrior to the 1999 elections, the party was taken over by TV celebrity Tommy Lapid, who was known for his fierce rhetoric against religious coercion. The party changed its name to Shinui – the Secular Movement, and refused to join any coalition that includes the ultra-Orthodox parties Shas and United Torah Judaism. In the elections, Shinui won 6 seats.\n\nIn the 2003 elections, the party won 15 seats, making it the third-largest in the Knesset. Ariel Sharon invited the party to form a secular coalition, with Shinui taking several key ministerial positions, including the Internal Affairs ministry, a key position in the secular-religious struggle. The party used its bargaining power to close down the Religious Affairs ministry.\n\nShinui presented itself as centrist on security issues.\n\nIn July 2004, a tape recording of Shinui MK and Minister of Infrastructure Yosef Paritzki was exposed. In the tape, Paritzki was heard to ask a private investigator to investigate the actions of his Shinui colleague Avraham Poraz. The private investigator was probably paid by the workers' union of Israel's Power Company (IPC), which wanted to prevent a law bill by Poraz denying the IPC workers many privileges they currently hold.\n\nIn response, Shinui publicly denounced and condemned Paritzki, and asked Prime Minister Ariel Sharon to fire Paritzki from the cabinet, and called on Paritzki to resign from the Knesset and leave Shinui. Paritzki refused, and blamed Shinui and other factors in a plot against him; he eventually formed his own party, Tzalash. A criminal investigation was ended without any indictment or any further legal proceedings.\n\nIn August 2004, Sharon initiated coalition negotiations with several other parties after he lost the government majority required to support his disengagement plan. Although he preferred to form a Likud–Labor–Shinui \"secular unity\" government, this was thwarted by Likud MKs. Sharon then started negotiations with Shas and United Torah Judaism (UTJ). Although Shinui had vowed not to sit in a coalition with either party, after significant pressure from Sharon, and to avoid being blamed for thwarting the implementation of the disengagement plan, Lapid retracted his vow, and agreed to let UTJ join the coalition if they would agree to the government's principles.\n\nOn 1 December 2004, Shinui voted against Sharon's 2005 budget, which included subsidies to UTJ projects. In response, Sharon fired the Shinui ministers from the cabinet. On 10 January 2005, Labour joined the coalition, replacing Shinui. However, the party continued to support the disengagement and Finance Minister Binyamin Netanyahu's financial reforms. Following its departure from the government, the party was renamed Shinui – Party for the Secular and the Middle Class.\n\nIn June 2005, Poraz was confronted by party activists who accused him and Lapid of dictatorial control of the party, and was recorded by them offering vacation flights out of the country and other financial favours. The tape reached \"Maariv\", which at the time was running its \"Where is the Shame\" anti-corruption campaign led by its editor Amnon Dankner and top columnist Dan Margalit. However, the affair generated little publicity, as the party was outside the government. Nevertheless, the issues were brought to a head in September 2005 when Rubinstein criticized Lapid for stifling criticism and not engaging efforts to expand the party's membership.\n\nOn 12 January 2006, the party held internal primary elections in preparation for the elections that year. In a surprise result, Ron Levintal beat Poraz in the contest for second place on the party's list behind Lapid (who was re-elected with 53% of the votes). This resulted in the party splitting, with five MKs (Poraz, Ilan Shalgi, Meli Polishook-Bloch, Eti Livni, and Roni Brizon) leaving the party to form a new party they claimed would represent the \"real Shinui\". On 25 January, Lapid resigned as party chairman, and left the party, declaring it no longer worthy of support. By then, a total of eleven MKs had left Shinui and formed a new party, the Secular Faction (later renamed Hetz), led by Poraz and supported by Lapid. After Yigal Yasinov also left the party, Shinui was left with only two MKs, Ehud Rassabi and Ilan Leibovitch.\n\nBefore the elections, Levintal made several conciliatory gestures toward Hetz, attempting negotiations with them, the anti-corruption Tafnit party led by Uzi Dayan, and former Prime Minister Ehud Barak over the prospect of forming a united front, but to no avail. In the election, Shinui won just 4,675 votes, 0.16% of the total, well below the 2% (62,741 votes) electoral threshold. Hetz won only 10,113 votes, meaning that both parties lost their Knesset representation.\n\nThe party did not run in the 2009 Knesset elections, and has not run in any subsequent national elections. It participated in combination with other parties, however, in the 2008 municipal elections in Haifa (led by Shlomo Gilboa), and won two seats. Shinui also participated in Tel Aviv-Yafo under the name Tel Avivim (led by Ron Levintal), but did not win any seats.\n\nIn 2012, Tommy Lapid's son, Yair Lapid, formed Yesh Atid, a secularist, centrist, liberal Zionist party that won 19 seats in the 2013 Knesset elections, making it the Kneeset's second-largest party, and 11 seats in the 2015 Knesset elections. Yesh Atid is widely considered to be in the same tradition as Shinui, and has largely absorbed its electoral base.\n\nDespite nearly 30 years of public support of liberal-capitalist economic and social policies, its best known platform plank is a call for separation of religion and state within the confines of Zionist ideology. It demands civil marriage (although it has opposed a bill to enact it in March 2004), the operation of public transportation, businesses, theaters, etc., on Shabbat, removal of laws concerning selling and importing non-kosher food, drafting of ultra-Orthodox Jews into the IDF, and a halt to payments to yeshiva students.\n\nBecause of such demands, and the inflammatory tone of its current leadership, it was sometimes accused of being anti-religious or hating the religious, and so, some, including many secular people who would otherwise agree with its platform, would not vote for it. The party's official position was that it does not oppose religion, but merely seeks to mend the inequities that exist because of religion. Their television campaign for the 2006 elections showed ultra-Orthodox Jews dragging onto secular voter, and as the secular man votes for Shinui, all the ultra-Orthodox vanish in midair.\n\nShinui supported gay rights, and conforming to its liberal orientation, Shinui adopted a unanimous resolution to create an in-party forum for gay, lesbian, bisexual, and transgender people.\n\nEconomically, Shinui supported a free market, privatization of public assets, and a lowering of taxes, especially taxes on the upper class. The party also objected to the introduction of a progressive estate tax.\n\nShinui's position on Israeli–Palestinian conflict was in accord with the mainstream centrist consensus. It supported achieving peace with the Palestinians even at the cost of territorial concessions. Shinui also supported the anti-terrorist policies of Ariel Sharon's government, such as the killing of Hamas leader Ahmed Yassin.\n\nShinui supported negotiation with the Palestinians concerning the final status and a Palestinian state, which would include removal of Israeli settlements and withdrawal from most of the West Bank and Gaza. It asserted that both the Right and Left misled the public - the Right by claiming that only force will solve the problem, and the Left by claiming that there is a Palestinian partner for peace.\n\nShinui strongly supported the Israeli West Bank barrier and the disengagement plan.\n\nShinui proclaimed itself as a defender of political purity and lawful conduct. It promised to set an example for an uncorrupted party whose members are not suspected of involvement in criminal activity or financial irregularities. Shinui saw itself as an antithesis to Shas, many of whose MKs have been convicted in various corruption probes. Accordingly, Lapid requested and received the Justice and Internal Affairs ministries when in government (the latter having been formerly held by Shas). Shinui also frequently praised the Supreme Court of Israel as a guardian of the law and moral values.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "355204", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=355204", "title": "Somnium Scipionis", "text": "Somnium Scipionis\n\nThe Dream of Scipio (Latin, Somnium Scipionis), written by Cicero, is the sixth book of \"De re publica\", and describes a fictional dream vision of the Roman general Scipio Aemilianus, set two years before he oversaw the destruction of Carthage in 146 BC.\n\nThe \"Somnium Scipionis\" is a portion of the sixth and final book from Cicero's \"De re publica\", but because large parts of Cicero's whole work are missing, \"Somnium Scipionis\" represents nearly all that remains of the sixth book. The main reason that the \"Somnium Scipionis\" survived was because in the fifth-century, the Latin writer Macrobius wrote a Neoplatonic commentary on the work, in which he excerpted large portions from Cicero. Additionally, many copies of Macrobius's work were amended with a copy of the \"Somnium Scipionis\" at their end. However, during the Middle Ages, the \"Somnium Scipionis\" became so popular that its transmission was polluted by multiple copies, and today it has been impossible to establish a stemma for it.\n\nUpon his arrival in Africa, a guest at the court of Massinissa, Scipio Aemilianus is visited by his dead grandfather-by-adoption, Scipio Africanus, hero of the Second Punic War. He finds himself looking down upon Carthage \"from a high place full of stars, shining and splendid\". His future is foretold by his grandfather, and great stress is placed upon the loyal duty of the Roman soldier, who will as a reward after death \"inhabit... that circle that shines forth among the stars which you have learned from the Greeks to call the Milky Way\". Nevertheless, Scipio Aemilianus sees that Rome is an insignificant part of the earth, which is itself dwarfed by the stars.\n\nThen, Scipio Aemilianus sees that the universe is made up of nine celestial spheres. The earth is the inner most, whereas the highest is heaven, which \"contains all the rest, and is itself the supreme God\" (\"unus est caelestis\" [...] \"qui reliquos omnes complectitur, summus ipse deus\"). In between these two extremes lie the spheres of the Moon, Mercury, Venus, Mars, Jupiter, and Saturn (which proceed from lowest to highest). As he stares in wonder at the universe, Scipio Aemilianus begins to hear a \"loud and agreeable\" (\"tantus et tam dulcis\") sound, which Scipio Africanus identifies as the \"musica universalis\": the \"music of the spheres\". He explains to his grandson that because the planets are set apart at fixed intervals, a sound is produced as they move. The moon, being the lowest sphere and the one closest to Earth, emits the lowest sound of all, whereas the heaven emits the highest. The Earth, on the other hand, does not move, remaining motionless at the center of the universe.\n\nThen the climatic belts of the earth are observed, from the snow fields to the deserts, and there is discussion of the nature of the Divine, the soul and virtue, from the Stoic point of view.\n\nThe tale is modelled on \"The Myth of Er\" in Plato's \"Republic\". Although the story of Er records a near-death experience, while the journey of Scipio's \"disembodied soul\" takes place in a dream, both give examples of belief in astral projection.\n\nThe literary and philosophical influence of the \"Somnium\" was great. Macrobius' \"Commentary upon Scipio's Dream\" was known to the sixth-century philosopher Boethius, and was later valued throughout the Middle Ages as a primer of cosmology. The work assumed the astrological cosmos formulated by Claudius Ptolemy. Chretien de Troyes referred to Macrobius' work in his first Arthurian romance, \"Erec\", and it was a model for Dante's account of heaven and hell. Chaucer referred to the work in \"The Nun's Priest's Tale\" and especially in the \"Parlement of Foules\".\n\nSome critics consider Raphael's painting \"Vision of a Knight\" to be a depiction of Scipio's Dream.\n\nThe composer Mozart, at the age of fifteen, wrote a short opera entitled \"Il sogno di Scipione\" (K. 126), with a libretto by Metastasio, based upon Scipio Aemilianus's 'soul-journey' through the cosmos.\n\nIain Pears wrote a historical novel called \"The Dream of Scipio\" which refers to Cicero's work in various direct and indirect ways.\n\nBernard Field, in the preface to his \"History of Science Fiction\", cited Scipio's vision of the Earth as seen from a great height as a forerunner of modern science fiction writers describing the experience of flying in orbit — particularly noting the similarity between Scipio's realization that Rome is but a small part of the Earth with similar feeling by characters in Arthur C. Clarke's works.\n\nThis story is the basis for Chris McCully's poem \"Scipio's Dream\" from his collection \"Not Only I\", published in 1996.\n\nImages from a 12th-century manuscript of Macrobius' \"Commentarii in Somnium Scipionis\" (Parchment, 50 ff.; 23.9 × 14 cm; Southern France). Date: ca. 1150. Source: Copenhagen, Det Kongelige Bibliotek, ms. NKS 218 4°.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "35136992", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35136992", "title": "Southeast District of the Unitarian Universalist Association", "text": "Southeast District of the Unitarian Universalist Association\n\nThe Florida District is a district of the Unitarian Universalist Association. It comprises 72 congregations in North Carolina, South Carolina, Eastern Georgia, Eastern and Central Tennessee, and most of Virginia. It was formerly named the Thomas Jefferson District, after the author of the United States Declaration of Independence and third President of the United States.\n\nIt also comprises the following congregational clusters:\n\n\nThe Southeast District is part of the Southern Regional Group, alongside the Mid-South District, Florida District, and Southwest District.\n\n"}
{"id": "2365697", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2365697", "title": "The New Jerusalem (Chesterton book)", "text": "The New Jerusalem (Chesterton book)\n\nThe New Jerusalem is a 1920 book written by British writer G. K. Chesterton. Dale Ahlquist calls it a \"philosophical travelogue\" of Chesterton's journey across Europe to Palestine.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1242447", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1242447", "title": "Theophoric name", "text": "Theophoric name\n\nA theophoric name (from Greek: , \"theophoros\", literally \"bearing or carrying a god\") embeds the name of a god, both invoking and displaying the protection of that deity. For example, names embedding Apollo, such as \"Apollonios\" or \"Apollodorus\", existed in Greek antiquity.\n\nTheophoric personal names, containing the name of a god in whose care the individual is entrusted (or a generic word for \"god\"), were also exceedingly common in the ancient Near East and Mesopotamia. Some names of theophoric origin remain common today, such as Theodore (\"theo-\", \"god\"; \"-dore\", origin of word compound in Greek: \"doron\", \"gift\"; hence \"God's gift\"; in Greek: \"Theodoros\") or less recognisably as \"Jonathan\" (from Hebrew Yonatan, meaning \"Yahweh has given\").\n\n\n\nSome Christian saints have polytheistic theophoric names (such as Saint Dionysius, Saint Mercurius, Saint Saturninus, Saint Hermes, Saint Martin of Tours, Saint Demetrius of Thessaloniki,).\n\n\nRarely, Germanic names contain the element \"Wod\" (such as \"Woðu-riðe\"), potentially pointing to an association with the god Odin. In connection, numerous names containing \"wulf\" \"wolf\" have been taken as totemistic, expressing association with Odin in the earliest period, although \"-ulf\" degenerated into a mere suffix from an early time (Förstemann 1856).\n\nSome traditional Hindu names honor Hindu gods or goddesses. Often, the same name is ascribed to multiple deities.\n\nIt is not uncommon to find Hindus with names of gods. Shiva, Krishna, Ganesh, Durga, Radha, and Sita are all names of Hindu gods or goddesses as well as being personal names for Hindus. Hindu gods themselves have multiple names, so it is not always apparent if an Indian name is the name of a god or not.\n\n\nMuch Hebrew theophory occurs in the Bible, particularly in the Old Testament. The most prominent theophory involves\n\nIn later times, as the conflict between Yahwism and the more popular pagan practices became increasingly intense, these names were censored and \"Baal\" was replaced with \"Bosheth\", meaning \"shameful one\". However the name Yahweh does not appear in theophoric names until the time of Joshua, and for the most part is very rare until the time of King Saul, when it began to be very popular.\n\n\nThe name of the Israelite deity YHWH (usually shortened to Yah or Yahu, and Yeho or Yo) appears as a prefix or suffix in many theophoric names of the First Temple Period. For example, \"Yirme-yahu\" (Jeremiah), \"Yesha-yahu\" (Isaiah), \"Netan-yah\", \"Yedid-yah\", \"Adoni-yah\", \"Nekhem-yah\", \"Yeho-natan\" (Jonathan), \"Yeho-chanan\" (John), \"Yeho-shua\" (Joshua), \"Yeho-tzedek\", \"Zekharya\" (Zechariah).\n\n\"Yahū\" or \"Yah\" is the abbreviation of YHWH when used as a suffix in Hebrew names; as a prefix it appears as \"Yhō-\", or \"Yo\". It was formerly thought to be abbreviated from the Masoretic pronunciation \"Yehovah\". There is an opinion that, as Yahweh is likely an imperfective verb form, \"Yahu\" is its corresponding preterite or jussive short form: compare \"yiŝthawe\" (imperfective), \"yiŝtáhû\" (preterit or jussive short form) = \"do obeisance\".\n\n\nHowever, the name Judah (Yhūda) is not an example. The name Judah, comes from the root word Yadah = Yud-Dalet-Hey, which means \"praise\". The letter Yud is also a prefix pronoun in Hebrew, thus not every name or word beginning with Yud or Yud-Hey is theophoric.\n\nIn the table below, 13 theophoric names with \"Yeho\" have corresponding forms where the letters \"eh\" have been omitted. There is a theory by Christian Ginsburg that this is due to Hebrew scribes omitting the \"h\", changing Jeho () into Jo (), to make the start of \"Yho-\" names not sound like an attempt to pronounce the Divine Name.\n\n\nTheophoric names containing \"Baal\" were sometimes \"censored\" as \"-bosheth\" = \"shameful one\", whence Ishbosheth etc.\n\nSome names might be controversial theological statements: \"Bealiah\" could mean \"Baal is Yahweh\" and \"Elijah\" could mean \"Yahweh is El\" (and vice versa, respectively). On the other hand, as traditionally understood, these names simply mean \"YHWH is Master\" and \"YHWH is God.\" \n\n"}
{"id": "36324139", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36324139", "title": "Tiphupa", "text": "Tiphupa\n\nTiphupa was an Indian Buddhist teacher from the 11th and 12th century who was considered to be the rebirth of Darma Dode, son and student of Tibetan lama Marpa Lotsawa. When young Darma Dode died in an accident his father with the special abilities of a realized lama, managed to prolong his son's life for a while. It was enough time for Marpa to teach him how to transfer his consciousness into a dead body – in this case the body of a dead pigeon. Following the detailed instructions of the teacher, the pigeon flew to India and died next to a sixteen-year-old boy who had recently lost his life. Transferring again his consciousness, this time to the young boy’s body, gave life to the Indian teacher Tiphupa (from Ti Phi – pigeon). When the boy returned home it was evident that Tiphupa was very different from who he had been before. He kept taking care of his aging parents as a normal son and they considered him as a guru. Tiphupa intensively practiced the methods taught by Marpa and others, and methods he received in India from Naropa’s students and other masters with the result that he reached realization as a mahasiddha. He became a famous teacher himself and gave numerous teachings to Milarepa’s student Rechungpa. Probably the most important of them for the future of the Kagyu lineage was the \"nine-fold cycle of the formless Dakinis\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "32164", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32164", "title": "Unitarianism", "text": "Unitarianism\n\nUnitarianism (from Latin \"unitas\" \"unity, oneness\", from \"unus\" \"one\") is a Christian theological movement named for its belief that the God in Christianity is one person, as opposed to the Trinity (tri- from Latin \"tres\" \"three\") which defines God as three persons in one being; the Father, Son, and Holy Spirit. Unitarian Christians, therefore, believe that Jesus was inspired by God in his moral teachings, and he is a savior, but he was not a deity or God incarnate. Unitarianism does not constitute one single Christian denomination, but rather refers to a collection of both extant and extinct Christian groups, whether historically related to each other or not, which share a common theological concept of the oneness nature of God.\n\nWhile the uncompromising theological monotheism at the heart of Christian Unitarianism distinguishes it from the major Christian denominations which subscribe to Trinitarian theology, Christian Unitarianism is analogous to the more austere monotheistic understandings of God in Judaism, and nearer to the concept of God in Islam.\n\nUnitarianism is also known for the rejection of several other Western Christian doctrines, including the doctrines of original sin, predestination, and the infallibility of the Bible. Unitarians in previous centuries accepted the doctrine of punishment in an eternal hell, but few do today.\n\nUnitarianism might be considered a part of Protestantism, depending on one's stance or viewpoint, though usually it is excluded from that term due to its Nontrinitarian nature. Despite common origins during the Protestant Reformation, it is perhaps more accurate to call it a part of Nontrinitarianism. Some consider it both Protestant and Nontrinitarian, seeing no contradiction between those two terms. Nonetheless, this is not universally accepted.\n\nThe Unitarian movement is tied to the more radical critiques of the Reformation. First organized in Eastern Europe during the Reformation, Unitarian communities have developed in Britain, South Africa, India, Canada, United States, Jamaica, Nigeria, and Japan. \n\nUnitarians began almost simultaneously in the Polish–Lithuanian Commonwealth and in Transylvania in the mid-16th century. Among the adherents were a significant number of Italians who took refuge in Poland. In the 17th Century, significant repression in Poland led many Unitarians to flee or be killed for their faith, notably Katarzyna Weiglowa. From the 16th to 18th Centuries, Unitarians in Britain often faced significant political persecution, including John Biddle, Mary Wollstonecraft, and Theophilus Lindsey. In England, the first Unitarian Church was established in 1774 on Essex Street, London, where today's British Unitarian headquarters are still located. \n\nIn the United States, different schools of Unitarian theology first spread in New England and the mid-Atlantic states. The first official acceptance of the Unitarian faith on the part of a congregation in America was by King's Chapel in Boston, from where James Freeman began teaching Unitarian doctrine in 1784, and was appointed rector and revised the prayer book according to Unitarian doctrines in 1786. \n\nIn India, three different schools of Unitarian thought influenced varying movements, including the Brahmo Samaj, the Unitarian Church of the Khasi Hills, and the Unitarian Christian Church of Chennai, in Madras, founded in 1795. \n\nUnitarians place emphasis on the ultimate role of reason in interpreting sacred scriptures, and thus freedom of conscience and freedom of the pulpit are core values in the tradition. Reformation is an ongoing process, to be celebrated. Constant study and new experiences can lead to new insights for teachings and community practice. In varying contexts, Unitarians seek to affirm the use of reason in religion and freedom of conscience. \n\nIn J. Gordon Melton's \"Encyclopedia of American Religions\", the Unitarian tradition is classified among \"the 'liberal' family of churches\".\n\nUnitarianism is a proper noun and follows the same English usage as other theologies that have developed within a religious movement (Calvinism, Anabaptism, Adventism, Wesleyanism, Lutheranism, etc.). The term existed shortly before it became the name of a religious movement, thus occasionally it is used as a common noun that would describe any understanding of Jesus Christ that denies the Trinity or which believes that God is only one person. In that case, it would be a nontrinitarian belief system not necessarily associated with the Unitarian religious movement. For example, the Unitarian movement has never accepted the Godhood of Jesus, and therefore does not include those \"nontrinitarian\" belief systems that do, such as Oneness Pentecostalism, United Pentecostal Church International and the True Jesus Church and the writings of Michael Servetus, and which maintain that Jesus is God as a single person. Although these groups are unitarians in the common sense, they are not in the proper sense. To avoid confusion, this article is about Unitarianism as a religious movement (proper noun). For the generic form of unitarianism (the Christology), see Nontrinitarianism. Recently some religious groups have adopted the 19th-century term \"biblical unitarianism\" to distinguish their theology from Unitarianism. These likewise have no direct relation to the Unitarian movement.\n\nThe term \"Unitarian\" is sometimes applied today to those who belong to a Unitarian church but do not hold a Unitarian theological belief. In the past, the vast majority of members of Unitarian churches were Unitarians also in theology. Over time, however, some Unitarians and Unitarian Universalists moved away from the traditional Christian roots of Unitarianism. For example, in the 1890s the American Unitarian Association began to allow non-Christian and non-theistic churches and individuals to be part of their fellowship. As a result, people who held no Unitarian belief began to be called \"Unitarians\" because they were members of churches that belonged to the American Unitarian Association. After several decades, the non-theistic members outnumbered the theological Unitarians. A similar, though proportionally much smaller, phenomenon has taken place in the Unitarian churches in the United Kingdom, Canada, and other countries, which remain more theistically based. Unitarian theology, therefore, is distinguishable from the belief system of modern Unitarian and Unitarian Universalist churches and fellowships. This article includes information about Unitarianism as a theology and about the development of theologically Unitarian churches. For a more specific discussion of Unitarianism as it evolved into a pluralistic liberal religious movement, see Unitarian Universalism (and its national groups the Unitarian Universalist Association in the United States, the Canadian Unitarian Council in Canada, the General Assembly of Unitarian and Free Christian Churches in the United Kingdom, and the International Council of Unitarians and Universalists).\n\nUnitarianism, both as a theology and as a denominational family of churches, was defined and developed in Poland, Transylvania, England, Wales and the United States. Although common beliefs existed among Unitarians in each of these regions, they initially grew independently from each other. Only later did they influence one another and accumulate more similarities.\n\nThe \"Ecclesia minor\" or \"Minor Reformed Church of Poland\", better known today as the Polish Brethren, was born as the result of a controversy that started on January 22, 1556, when Piotr of Goniądz (Peter Gonesius), a Polish student, spoke out against the doctrine of the Trinity during the general synod of the Reformed (Calvinist) churches of Poland held in the village of Secemin. After nine years of debate, in 1565, the anti-Trinitarians were excluded from the existing synod of the Polish Reformed Church (henceforth the \"Ecclesia maior\") and they began to hold their own synods as the \"Ecclesia minor\". Though frequently called \"Arians\" by those on the outside, the views of Fausto Sozzini (Faustus Socinus) became the standard in the church, and these doctrines were quite removed from Arianism. So important was Socinus to the formulation of their beliefs that those outside Poland usually referred to them as Socinians. The Polish Brethren were disbanded in 1658 by the Sejm (Polish Parliament). They were ordered to convert to Roman Catholicism or leave Poland. Most of them went to Transylvania or Holland, where they embraced the name \"Unitarian.\" Between 1665 and 1668 a grandson of Socinus, Andrzej Wiszowaty Sr., published \"Bibliotheca Fratrum Polonorum quos Unitarios vocant\" (\"Library of the Polish Brethren who are called Unitarians\" 4 vols. 1665–69).\n\nThe Unitarian Church in Transylvania was first recognized by the Edict of Torda, issued by the Transylvanian Diet under Prince John II Sigismund Zápolya (January 1568), and was first led by Ferenc Dávid (a former Calvinist bishop, who had begun preaching the new doctrine in 1566). The term \"Unitarian\" first appeared as \"unitaria religio\" in a document of the Diet of Lécfalva, Transylvania, on 25 October 1600, though it was not widely used in Transylvania until 1638, when the formal \"recepta Unitaria Religio\" was published.\n\nThe word \"Unitarian\" had been circulating in private letters in England, in reference to imported copies of such publications as the \"Library of the Polish Brethren who are called Unitarians\" (1665). Henry Hedworth was the first to use the word \"Unitarian\" in print in English (1673), and the word first appears in a title in Stephen Nye's \"A brief history of the Unitarians, called also Socinians\" (1687). The movement gained popularity in England in the wake of the Enlightenment and began to become a formal denomination in 1774 when Theophilus Lindsey organised meetings with Joseph Priestley, founding the first avowedly Unitarian congregation in the country. This occurred at Essex Street Church in London.\n\nThe first official acceptance of the Unitarian faith on the part of a congregation in America was by King's Chapel in Boston, which settled James Freeman (1759–1835) in 1782, and revised the Prayer Book into a mild Unitarian liturgy in 1785. In 1800, Joseph Stevens Buckminster became minister of the Brattle Street Church in Boston, where his brilliant sermons, literary activities, and academic attention to the German \"New Criticism\" helped shape the subsequent growth of Unitarianism in New England. Unitarian Henry Ware (1764–1845) was appointed as the Hollis professor of divinity at Harvard College, in 1805. Harvard Divinity School then shifted from its conservative roots to teach Unitarian theology (see Harvard and Unitarianism). Buckminster's close associate William Ellery Channing (1780–1842) was settled over the Federal Street Church in Boston, 1803, and in a few years he became the leader of the Unitarian movement. A theological battle with the Congregational Churches resulted in the formation of the American Unitarian Association at Boston in 1825.\n\nUnitarians believe that mainline Christianity does not adhere to strict monotheism but that they do by maintaining that Jesus was a great man and a prophet of God, perhaps even a supernatural being, but not God himself. They believe Jesus did not claim to be God and that his teachings did not suggest the existence of a triune God. Unitarians believe in the moral authority but not necessarily the divinity of Jesus. Their theology is thus opposed to the trinitarian theology of other Christian denominations.\n\nUnitarian Christology can be divided according to whether or not Jesus is believed to have had a pre-human existence. Both forms maintain that God is one being and one \"person\" and that Jesus is the (or a) Son of God, but generally not God himself.\n\nIn the early 19th century, Unitarian Robert Wallace identified three particular classes of Unitarian doctrines in history: \n\nUnitarianism is considered a factor in the decline of classical deism because there were people who increasingly preferred to identify themselves as Unitarians rather than deists.\n\nSeveral tenets of Unitarianism overlap with the predominant Muslim view of Jesus and Islamic understanding of monotheism, although no direct link between the two is suggested.\n\nThe Christology commonly called \"Socinian\" (after Fausto Sozzini, one of the founders of Unitarian theology) refers to the belief that Jesus Christ began his life when he was born as a human. In other words, the teaching that Jesus pre-existed his human body is rejected. There are various views ranging from the belief that Jesus was simply a human (psilanthropism) who, because of his greatness, was adopted by God as his Son (adoptionism) to the belief that Jesus literally became the son of God when he was conceived by the Holy Spirit (see Virgin birth of Jesus).\n\nThis Christology existed in some form or another prior to Sozzini. Theodotus of Byzantium, Artemon and Paul of Samosata denied the pre-existence of Christ. These ideas were continued by Marcellus of Ancyra and his pupil Photinus in the 4th century AD. In the Radical Reformation and Anabaptist movements of the 16th century this idea resurfaced with Sozzini's uncle, Lelio Sozzini. Having influenced the Polish Brethren to a formal declaration of this belief in the Racovian Catechism, Fausto Sozzini involuntarily ended up giving his name to this Christological position, which continued with English Unitarians such as John Biddle, Thomas Belsham, Theophilus Lindsey, Joseph Priestley, and James Martineau. In America, most of the early Unitarians were \"Arian\" in Christology (see below), but among those who held to a \"Socinian\" view was James Freeman.\n\nRegarding the virgin birth of Jesus among those who denied the preexistence of Christ, some held to it and others did not. Its denial is sometimes ascribed to the Ebionites; however, Origen (\"Contra Celsum\" v.61) and Eusebius (\"HE\" iii.27) both indicate that some Ebionites did accept the virgin birth. On the other hand, Theodotus of Byzantium, Artemon, and Paul of Samosata all accepted the virgin birth. In the early days of Unitarianism, the stories of the virgin birth were accepted by most. The \"Chambers Biographical Dictionary\" (1897) incorrectly ascribes denial of the virgin birth to Ferenc Dávid, leader of the Transylvanian Unitarians. However, there were a number of Unitarians who questioned the historical accuracy of the Bible (such as Symon Budny, Jacob Palaeologus, Thomas Belsham, and Richard Wright), and this made them question the virgin birth story. Beginning in England and America in the 1830s, and manifesting itself primarily in Transcendentalist Unitarianism, which emerged from the German liberal theology associated primarily with Friedrich Schleiermacher, the psilanthropist view increased in popularity. Its proponents took an intellectual and humanistic approach to religion. They embraced evolutionary concepts, asserted the \"inherent goodness of man\", and abandoned the doctrine of biblical infallibility, rejecting most of the miraculous events in the Bible (including the virgin birth). Notable examples are James Martineau, Theodore Parker, Ralph Waldo Emerson and Frederic Henry Hedge. Famous American Unitarian William Ellery Channing was a believer in the virgin birth until later in his life, after he had begun his association with the Transcendentalists.\n\nThe Christology commonly called \"Arian\" holds that Jesus, before his human life, existed as the Logos, a being created by God, who dwelt with God in heaven. There are many varieties of this form of Unitarianism, ranging from the belief that the Son was a divine spirit of the same nature as God before coming to earth, to the belief that he was an angel or other lesser spirit creature of a wholly different nature from God. Not all of these views necessarily were held by Arius, the namesake of this Christology. It is still Nontrinitarian because, according to this belief system, Jesus has always been beneath God, though higher than humans. Arian Christology was not a majority view among Unitarians in Poland, Transylvania or England. It was only with the advent of American Unitarianism that it gained a foothold in the Unitarian movement.\n\nAmong early Christian theologians who believed in a pre-existent Jesus who was subordinate to God the Father were Lucian of Antioch, Eusebius of Caesarea, Arius, Eusebius of Nicomedia, Asterius the Sophist, Eunomius, and Ulfilas, as well as Felix, Bishop of Urgell. Proponents of this Christology also associate it (more controversially) with Justin Martyr and Hippolytus of Rome. Antitrinitarian Michael Servetus did not deny the pre-existence of Christ, so he may have believed in it. (In his \"Treatise Concerning the Divine Trinity\" Servetus taught that the Logos (Word) was the reflection of Christ, and \"that reflection of Christ was 'the Word with God\" that consisted of God Himself, shining brightly in heaven, \"and it was God Himself\" and that \"the Word was the very essence of God or the manifestation of God's essence, and there was in God no other substance or hypostasis than His Word, in a bright cloud where God then seemed to subsist. And in that very spot the face and personality of Christ shone bright.\") Isaac Newton had Arian beliefs as well. Famous 19th-century Arian Unitarians include Andrews Norton and Dr. William Ellery Channing (in his earlier years).\n\nAlthough there is no specific authority on convictions of Unitarian belief aside from rejection of the Trinity, the following beliefs are generally accepted:\n\n\nUnitarians have liberal views of God, Jesus, the world and purpose of life as revealed through reason, scholarship, science, philosophy, scripture and other prophets and religions. They believe that reason and belief are complementary and that religion and science can co-exist and guide them in their understanding of nature and God. They also do not enforce belief in creeds or dogmatic formulas. Although there is flexibility in the nuances of belief or basic truths for the individual Unitarian Christian, general principles of faith have been recognized as a way to bind the group in some commonality.\n\nUnitarian Christians reject the doctrine of some Christian denominations that God chooses to redeem or save only those certain individuals that accept the creeds of, or affiliate with, a specific church or religion, from a common ruin or corruption of the mass of humanity.\n\nIn 1938, \"The Christian leader\" attributed \"\"the\" religion \"of\" Jesus, not \"a\" religion \"about\" Jesus\" to Unitarians, though the phrase was used earlier by Congregationalist Rollin Lynde Hartt in 1924 and earlier still by US President Thomas Jefferson.\n\nWorship within the Unitarian tradition accommodates a wide range of understandings of God, while the focus of the service may be simply the celebration of life itself. Each Unitarian congregation is at liberty to devise its own form of worship, though commonly, Unitarians will light their chalice (symbol of faith), have a story for all ages; and include sermons, prayers, hymns and songs. Some will allow attendees to publicly share their recent joys or concerns.\n\nThis section relates to Unitarian churches and organizations today which are still specifically Christian, whether within or outside Unitarian Universalism. Unitarian Universalism, conversely, refers to the embracing of non-Christian religions.\n\nSome Unitarian Christian groups are affiliated with the International Council of Unitarians and Universalists (ICUU), founded in 1995. The ICUU tends to contain a majority membership who express specifically Unitarian Christian beliefs, rather than the religious pluralism of the UUA, but nevertheless remain liberal, open-minded and inclusive communities. The ICUU has \"full member\" groups in the United States, Australia, New Zealand, United Kingdom, Canada, Brazil, Czech Republic, Finland, Germany, Hungary, Indonesia, India, Nigeria, Pakistan, Philippines, Romania, South Africa, and Sri Lanka.\n\nThe ICUU includes small \"Associate groups\", including Congregazione Italiana Cristiano Unitariana, Turin (founded in 2004) and the Bét Dávid Unitarian Association, Oslo (founded 2005).\n\nThe largest Unitarian denomination worldwide today is also the oldest surviving Unitarian denomination (since 1565, first use of the term \"Unitarian\" 1600); the Unitarian Church of Transylvania (in Romania, which is in union with the Unitarian Church in Hungary). The church in Romania and Hungary still looks to the statement of faith, the \"Summa Universae Theologiae Christianae secundum Unitarios\" (1787), though today assent to this is not required. The modern Unitarian Church in Hungary (25,000 members) and the Transylvanian Unitarian Church (75,000 members) are affiliated with the International Council of Unitarians and Universalists (ICUU) and claim continuity with the historical Unitarian Christian tradition established by Ferenc Dávid in 1565 in Transylvania under John II Sigismund Zápolya. The Unitarian churches in Hungary and Transylvania are structured and organized along a church hierarchy that includes the election by the synod of a national bishop who serves as superintendent of the Church. Many Hungarian Unitarians embrace the principles of rationalist Unitarianism. Unitarian high schools exist only in Transylvania (Romania), including the John Sigismund Unitarian Academy in Cluj-Napoca (Kolozsvár), the Protestant Theological Institute of Cluj, and the Berde Mózes Unitárius Gimnázium in Cristuru Secuiesc (Székelykeresztúr); both teach Rationalist Unitarianism.\n\nThe Unitarian Christian Association (UCA) was founded in the United Kingdom in 1991 by Rev. Lancelot Garrard (1904–93) and others to promote specifically Christian ideas within the General Assembly of Unitarian and Free Christian Churches (GAUFCC), the national Unitarian body in Great Britain. Just as the UUCF and ICUU maintain formal links with the Unitarian Universalist Association in the USA, so the UCA is an affiliate body of the GAUFCC in Great Britain.\n\nThe majority of Unitarian Christian publications are sponsored by an organization and published specifically for their membership. Generally, they do not serve as a tool for missionary work or encouraging conversions.\n\nThe Unitarian Christian Conference USA is a network of congregations and ministers in the United States identifying with the historic Unitarian Christian tradition. The Unitarian Christian Conference USA promotes the concept of the unity of God and the message and example of Jesus of Nazareth as a rational and enriching spiritual path for personal development and a guide for creating a world of justice, peace and human dignity.\n\nThe Unitarian Universalist Christian Fellowship (UUCF) was founded in 1945 and as such predates the consolidation of the American Unitarian Association (AUA) and Universalist Church of America (UCA) into the Unitarian Universalist Association (UUA) in 1961. UUCF continues as a subgroup of UUA serving the Christian members.\n\nThe American Unitarian Conference (AUC) was formed in 2000 and stands between UUA and ICUU in attachment to the Christian element of modern Unitarianism. The American Unitarian Conference is open to non-Christian Unitarians, being particularly popular with non-Christian theists and deists. The AUC has four congregations in the United States.\n\nUnitarian Christian Ministries International was a Unitarian ministry incorporated in South Carolina until its dissolution in 2013 when it merged with the Unitarian Christian Emerging Church. The Unitarian Christian Emerging Church has recently undergone reorganization and today is known as the Unitarian Christian Church of America.\nUnitarian Universalist Faith Alliance And Ministries (UUFAM) is an independent UU Christian / Deist post-denomination that serves non fellowshiped and non affiliated UU’s. Website reference: www.uufam.weebly.com\n\nThe Sydney Unitarian Church was founded 1850 under a Reverend Mr Stanley and was a vigorous denomination during the 19th century. The modern church, no longer unitarian Christian, has properties in Adelaide, Sydney and Melbourne, and smaller congregations elsewhere in Australia and New Zealand.\n\nThe Unitarian movement in South Africa was founded in 1867 by David Faure, member of a well-known Cape family. He encountered advanced liberal religious thought while completing his studies at the University of Leiden in Holland for the ministry of the Dutch Reformed Church in Cape Town.\n\nBiblical Unitarianism (or \"Biblical Unitarianism\" or \"biblical unitarianism\") identifies the Christian belief that the Bible teaches God is a singular person, the Father, and that Jesus is a distinct being, his son. A few denominations use this term to describe themselves, clarifying the distinction between them and those churches which, from the late 19th century, evolved into modern British Unitarianism and, primarily in the United States, Unitarian Universalism. In Italy the Biblical Unitarian Movement powered by the ideas of Sozzini and others is represented today by the churches associated with the Christian Church in Italy.\n\nNotable Unitarians include classical composers Edvard Grieg and Béla Bartók, Ralph Waldo Emerson, Theodore Parker and Thomas Lamb Eliot in theology and ministry, Oliver Heaviside, Erasmus Darwin, Joseph Priestley, John Archibald Wheeler, Linus Pauling, Sir Isaac Newton and inventor Sir Francis Ronalds in science, George Boole in mathematics, Susan B. Anthony in civil government, Florence Nightingale in humanitarianism and social justice, John Bowring, Samuel Taylor Coleridge and Elizabeth Gaskell in literature, Frank Lloyd Wright in the arts, Josiah Wedgwood and Samuel Carter MP in industry, Thomas Starr King in ministry and politics, and Charles William Eliot in education. Julia Ward Howe was a leader in the woman suffrage movement, the first ever woman to be elected to the Academy of Arts and Letters, and author of the Battle Hymn of the Republic along with volumes of poetry and other writing. Although raised a Quaker, Ezra Cornell, founder of Cornell University in Ithaca, New York, attended the Unitarian church and was one of the founders of Ithaca's First Unitarian Church. Eramus Darwin Shattuck, a signatory to the Oregon State Constitution, founded the first Unitarian Church in Oregon in 1865.\n\nEleven Nobel prizes have been awarded to Unitarians: Robert Millikan and John Bardeen (twice) in Physics; Emily Green Balch, Albert Schweitzer, and Linus Pauling for Peace; George Wald and David H. Hubel in Medicine; Linus Pauling in Chemistry; and Herbert A. Simon in Economics.\n\nFour presidents of the United States were Unitarians: John Adams, John Quincy Adams, Millard Fillmore, and William Howard Taft. Adlai Stevenson II, the Democratic presidential nominee in 1952 and 1956, was a Unitarian, and he was the last Unitarian to be nominated by a major party for president. Although a self-styled materialist, Thomas Jefferson was pro-Unitarian to the extent of advocating that it become the predominant religion in the United States.\n\nBritish prime minister Neville Chamberlain was raised by his Unitarian statesman father, Joseph Chamberlain. Certainly, in the United Kingdom, Unitarianism – the religion of only a small minority of the country's population – had an enormous impact on Victorian politics, not only in the larger cities – Birmingham, Leeds, Manchester, and Liverpool – but in smaller communities like Leicester where there were so many Unitarian mayors that the Unitarian Chapel was known as the \"Mayors' Nest\".\n\nIn Birmingham a Unitarian church was opened in 1862. The Church of the Messiah, as it was called, was more than the centre of a small sect: it was a cultural and intellectual centre of a whole society, a place where ideas about society were openly and critically discussed. Henry W. Crosskey’s Birmingham Unitarian congregation included: Joseph Chamberlain, as well as Arthur, his younger brother, who was married to Louisa Kenrick; William Kenrick, his brother-in-law, who was married to Mary Chamberlain; and Sir Thomas Martineau, who was the nephew of Harriet Martineau, another outspoken public figure and author of the time. Sir Thomas Martineau (died 1893), was related to the Chamberlain family by marriage; Sir Thomas had married Emily Kenrick, the sister of Florence Chamberlain, née Kenrick.\n\nIn Lambeth, South London, another two members of the Martineau family, Caroline and Constance, worked at Morley College, the former acting as (unpaid) principal for over 11 years. Several other prominent Unitarians were involved in the development of this liberal arts college, which was founded by actors at the Old Vic theatre.\n\nThese elite British Unitarian families: the Nettlefolds, the Martineaus, the Luptons, the Kitsons and the Kenricks, found a most significant place in the social and political history of Victorian through to mid-20th-century Britain.\n\nOther Unitarians include Sir Tim Berners-Lee, inventor of the World Wide Web Lancelot Ware, founder of Mensa, Sir Adrian Boult, the conductor, Ray Kurzweil, notable inventor and futurist, and C. Killick Millard, founder of the Dignity in Dying society to support voluntary euthanasia. Ram Mohan Roy, an Indian reformer of the 18th century, was a Unitarian who published a book called \"Precepts of Jesus\".\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "10769961", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10769961", "title": "Vaikhanasas", "text": "Vaikhanasas\n\nVaikhānasa is one of the principal traditions of Hinduism and primarily worships Vishnu (and his associated Avatars) as the Supreme God. The followers are mainly Brahmins of Krishna Yajurveda Taittiriya Shakha and Vaikhanasa Kalpasutra. The name \"Vaikhānasa\" stands for the followers and the fundamental philosophy itself with the name derived from founder, Sage Vaikhanasa. It is principally monotheistic in its philosophy, whilst also incorporating elements which could be described as being panentheistic. Vaikhanansas principle focuses on rituals and worship of Lord Vishnu rather than the philosophy of Uttara Mimamsa, unlike Vaishnavism, the larger and more prevalent form on Vishnu worship.\n\n\"Vaikhanasa bhagavath Shastra\" is the guiding principle for rituals in Tirumala Venkateswara temple.\n\nThe Vaikhanasa Brahmins/Vaikhanasas originated as a group of ascetics. In the Manava Dharmasastra, Manu discusses vanaprastha, forest-dweller, the third of the four asramas, stages of life, and mentions a \"Vaikhanasa rule.\" Other ancient authorities support this reference, so it seems there was a Vaikhanasa ascetic community before the common era. They are mentioned in the Narayaniya, which is a late section of the Mahabharata of uncertain date but probably no earlier than the third century CE. Surviving Vaikhanasa sutras are no older than the fourth century CE. \n\nInscriptions from perhaps the eighth century CE identify Vaikhanasas as temple priests, and from the end of the tenth century they are prominently mentioned in South Indian inscriptions. Vaikhanasas were the priests of Vishnu temples. They were not merely ritual priests, but were trusted with administering the temples and their lands. \n\nSri Baghavad Rāmānujacharya, leader of the Shri Vaishnavas and the organiser of temple administration at Srirangam Temple, replaced the Vaikhanasa system of worship which came into practice with the Pañcaratra system {as the Pancharathra Priests who were in Srirangam relocated or moved to Melnadu [Karnataka Temples] and near Andhrapradesh due to many Muslim invasions in Srirangam - Reference Koil Ozhugu, Ganga Vijayam, Sri Araayairapadi Guruparambara Prabhavam}. During those time Vaikhanasa Priests saved the Srirangam Temple and worshipped the God with Sri Vaikanasa Agama Bagavath Shaastram. However Sri Ramanujacharya gave importance to both Vaikhanasas and Pancharathras as it is evident that he had not changed the Agama Rituals of Tirumala Tirupathi, Thirukarambanoor[Uthamar Kovil very nearer to Srirangam], Manakkal Nambi temple [Manakkal Nambi who administered Sri Vaishnavism before Sri Alavandar - Acharya/Guru of Sri Ramanujacharya], Tiruvallikeni Temple, Mylapore Sri Peiazhwar Temple which are very famous and popular SriVaishnava temples worshipped according to Sri Vaikanasa Agama rituals.\nToday Vaikhanasas are the chief priests in more than half of the Vaishnava temples in the South Indian states of Tamil Nadu, Andhra Pradesh, and parts of Karnataka. Their present-day temple activities are worthy of attention, as are their efforts to work for community integrity which is threatened by increasing social and technological changes.\n\n\"The Vaikhanasa-sutra belonging to the Trivandrum Sanskrit Series has been edited by Dr. W. Caland and translated into English with a learned introduction. This sutra - text forms part of the Krishna Yajurveda tradition and derives its name probably from Vaikhanas who was its author. The work contains three types of Sutras —the Shrauta, the Grhya and the Dharma which altogether may be designated as Smarta-sutra. There is no doubt that both the portions have definitely one author, since the style of the Grhya and Dharma-sutras is the same. Moreover, the author himself promises to continue a topic discussed in the Grhya- portion again in the books on Dharma. The work is on the whole a small one but it contains in the main the same materials as are treated by its predecessors.\" —\"Vaikhanasasmartasutram: The Domestic Rules and Sacred Laws of the Vaikhanasa School Belonging to the Krishna Yajurveda\" translated into English by W. Caland.\n\nThe Vaikhanasa Brahmins/Vaikhanasas are a tiny vaishnavite Brahmin community of about 4000 families widely dispersed in South India at Vaishnava temples in Tamil Nadu, Andhra Pradesh, and parts of Karnataka and also worldwide especially in the United States of America, Germany, Australia, UK, and some parts of Europe.\n\nSome of the prominent Hindu temples following the Vaikanasa Agama are\n\nVaikhanasas claim to be a surviving school of Vedic ritual, the Taittiriya Shakha of the Krishna Yajurveda. Vaikhanasa tradition says the sage Vikhanasa, who was a manifestation of Lord Mahavishnu, had the Upanayanam along with Brahma consecrated by His father Lord Mahavishnu and educated under Lord Mahavishnu all the Vedas and Bhagawat Saastra on how to worship SriBhagawaan in His Archaavathaara - Iconic Form. Sri Vikhanasa Maharishi came down to earth's most holy place Naimisaaranyam composed the Vaikhanasa Kalpasutra and taught Sri Vaikhanasa Bhagawat Saastra to his four disciples viz., Atri, Bhrigu, Kashyapa and Marichi, respectively the procedures of Samurtarcana, Amurtarchana, devotional service to Vishnu in images. Most Vaikhanasa literature is almost completely concerned with rituals, prescribing the rituals and their rules of performance. To the Vaikhanasas their temple worship is a continuation of Vedic fire sacrifice. Regular and correct worship of Vishnu in a temple will bring the same results as the fire sacrifice even for people who do not maintain their fires.\nJnana, knowledge, sections of Vaikhanasa texts are short and it is necessary to infer their doctrines from discussions in the texts on ritual. The Vaikhanasas evolved the theory of the five aspects of Vishnu: Vishnu, the all-pervading supreme deity; Purusha, the principle of life; Satya, the static aspect of deity; Achyuta, the immutable aspect; and Aniruddha, the irreducible aspect. The distinction is emphasised between Vishnu in his Niskala presence, the unfigured primeval and indivisible form unperceived even by Brahma, and his Sakala presence, the figured, divisible, emanated, and movable form. In his sakala presence he responds gracefully to devotional meditation. Shri is important as nature, Prakriti, and as the power, Shakti, of Vishnu. \n\nThe Vaikhanasa doctrine states that Moksha is release into Vishnu's heaven. The nature of a man's Moksha is dependent on a devotee's service of Japa, attentive repetition of prayer, Huta, Yaaga, sacrifice, archana, service to images, or Dhyana, Yogic meditation. Of the four the Marichi Samhita says Archana is the realisation of all aims.\n\nTemples and images with the Vaikhanasas are of more importance than perhaps any other sect of Hinduism. In accordance with Vaikhanasa doctrine of the two forms of Vishnu, the Nishkala, the unfigured, and the Sakala, the figured, two cult images are distinguished. There is the large immovable image representing Vishnu's Niskala form, which is ritually placed in a sanctuary and elaborately consecrated, and a smaller movable image representing Vishnu's Sakala form. If the devotee wishes for temporal and eternal results he should worship both forms. But if he is after only eternal results he should worship the immovable image. \n\nAfter purification and meditation to identify with Vishnu, the devotee surrenders to Vishnu and places the movable image on a bathing pedestal and elaborately bathes it. This is preparation for receiving the presence of God by immediate contact via a connecting string. The invocation starts with a Mantra, sacred utterance, saying that the Imperishable is linked to the Perishable and that the Self is released from all evil as it knows God. Flowers are presented to all the deities present. Then the hymn called the Aatmasukta is recited that identifies the body of the devotee with the cosmos, followed by meditation on Vishnu's Niskala aspect: these parts of the ritual are to request Vishnu to take his Sakala form in the movable image so that the devotee can converse with Him. A Puja ceremony takes place with God as the royal guest, followed by a Homa, offering into the fire [Homaagni], and a Bali [offering-but not animal sacrifice] with something that may be visible, touchable, audible, or eatable. An offering of [Havis - anything offered as an oblation with fire], cooked food, is important as the God's meal. Afterwards the Prasaada (Food that was offered to God) is eaten by the worshipers and devotees. The offering area is cleaned and a Bali of cooked rice sprinkled with butter is offered to Vishnu. Then comes a Pradakshina [circumambulation from left to right clockwise as a kind of worship]around the temple. After Daksina, the officiating BrahmaN's share of the Prasadam, is given, Vishnu is meditated upon as the personal manifestation of the sacrifice. Finally Puspanjali [Mantra Pushpam], i.e., offering a handful of flowers at the God's lotus feet after chanting the holy Mantraas, and the temple door is closed after Mangala Haarathi.This\n\nhttp://vaikhanasatemple.blogspot.com/2015/08/agnimathana-according-to-vaikhanasa.html==Videos Related To Vaikhanasam / External links ==\n\n\nSri Ramakrishna Dikshitulu and Oppiliappan Koil Sri Varadachari Sathakopan. Sri Vaikhasana Bhagavad Sastram (An Introduction)\n"}
{"id": "4126008", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4126008", "title": "Xoanon", "text": "Xoanon\n\nA xoanon (, ; plural: ξόανα \"xoana\", from the verb ξέειν, \"xeein\", to carve or scrape [wood]) was an Archaic wooden cult image of Ancient Greece. Classical Greeks associated such cult objects, whether aniconic or effigy, with the legendary Daedalus. Many such cult images were preserved into historical times, though none are known to have survived to the modern day, except where their image was copied in stone or marble. In the 2nd century CE, Pausanias described numerous xoana in his \"Description of Greece\", notably the image of Hera in her temple at Samos. \"The statue of the Samian Hera, as Aethilos <nowiki>[</nowiki>sic<nowiki>]</nowiki> says, was a wooden beam at first, but afterwards, when Prokles was ruler, it was humanized in form\". In Pausanias' travels he never mentions seeing a xoanon of a mortal man.\n\nSome types of archaic xoana may be reflected in archaic marble versions, such as the pillar-like \"Hera of Samos\" (Louvre Museum), the flat \"Hera of Delos\" or some archaic kouros-type figures that may have been used to represent Apollo.\n\nA different type of cult figure in which the face, hands, and feet were carved of marble and the rest of the body made of wood is called acrolith. The wooden part was usually covered either with cloth or gold leaf.\n\nFor Strabo, the \"carved\" xoanon might also be of ivory; Pausanias, however, always uses \"xoanon\" in its strict sense, to denote a wooden image; at Corinth Pausanias noted that \"The sanctuary of Athena Chalinitis is by the theater, and near it is a naked xoanon of Herakles, said to be by Daidalos. All the works of this artist, though somewhat uncouth to look at, nevertheless have a touch of the divine in them.\"\nSimilar xoana were ascribed by the Greeks to the contemporary of Daedalus, the equally legendary Smilis. Such figures were often clothed in real textiles, such as the peplos that was woven and ceremonially delivered to Athena on the Acropolis of Athens into historic times.\n\nThe wood of which a xoanon was carved was often symbolic: olivewood, pearwood, \"Vitex\", oak, are all specifically mentioned.\n\nIn Athens, in the Erechtheum, an ancient olivewood effigy of Athena (the Palladion) was preserved. The Athenians believed it had fallen to earth from the heavens, as a gift to Athens; it was still to be seen in the 2nd century CE. On the island of Icaria a rustic piece of wood was venerated for the spirit of Artemis it contained or represented (Burkert).\n\nSuch an archaic image of wood of the Tauric goddess was stolen by Iphigeneia and Orestes in \"Iphigeneia in Tauris\" (line 1359). The importance of the xoanon in local cult ensured that it would be carefully copied when colonies were founded, and sent out with the colonists from the mother-city.\n\nStrabo (4.1) reports that the metropolis Massilia (modern Marseille) was founded by Phocaeans. Their cult of Artemis of Ephesus was transferred with the colony, justified in the founding myth by a dream, and the artistic design of the cult image — Strabo uses the term \"diathesis\" (Greek διάθεσις) — was re-exported to Massiliote sub-colonies, \"where they keep the diathesis of the xoanon the same, and all the other usages precisely the same as is customary in the mother-city\".\n\nSimilarly, cementing cultural ties between the Phocaean colony at Massilia and the Phocaean community in Rome, \"Among the others, the Romans have consecrated Artemis' xoanon on the Aventine, taking the same model from the Massiliotes\" (Strabo, 4.1.5). So the cult image of the Lady of Ephesus, identified as Artemis in Greek understanding, was established as Diana Aventina at Rome, of whom marble copies survive (see illustration at right).\n\n\n"}
{"id": "21366228", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21366228", "title": "Yeay Mao", "text": "Yeay Mao\n\nYeay Mao or Lok Yeay Mao (in Khmer យាយម៉ៅ - លោកយាយម៉ៅ, Grandma Mao) is an ancient mythical heroine and a divinity in the local popular form of Buddhism and Brahmanism in Cambodia. She is venerated mainly is in the coastal provinces of the country, especially along the road from Phnom Penh to the sea port of Sihanoukville, as well as in Kampot and Kep. At the Bokor Mountain in Kampot there is a 29 meters tall monument to Yeay Mao inaugurated in 2012, while there is a young version of Yeay Mao in the Kep Beach called \"Beautiful Lady\" (ស្រីស្អាត) or \"Sela waits for her husband\" (សិលាចាំប្តី), but that belongs to the legend of Mao looking to the west for her lost husband. She is considered the protector of travelers and hunters. Drivers still stop at her shrine along National Road 4 near Phnom Pech Nil to pay their respects and wash their cars with water from the stream nearby, as well as the monument at Bokor.\n\nThe history of Yeay Mao is unclear, being composed of several legends and interpretations. There are many popular stories surrounding her. It is said that she was a beautiful lady married to a powerful warrior. When he died, she took control of the armies against the Thai and became a celebrity. The story is placed sometime before the French Colony (1863–1953).\n\nAnother version says that Yeay Mao was the wife of Ta Krohom-Koh (តាក្រហមក) - literally \"Grandpa Red Neck\". They lived in the forest near Pech Nil Mountain (ភ្នំពេជ្រនិល). Once they went around and they met a tiger. Ta Krohom-Koh abandoned his wife and the tiger devoured her.\n\nSince then, any traveller who passed by the place of the accident, paid respect to her spirit to avoid a similar fate.\n\nWhen they built the highway between Phnom Penh and the sea in what is today Sihanoukville, a small temple was built at the spot. The road was finished by the French in 1876, a fact that increased the pilgrimage to the temple. It included Vietnamese and Chinese believers.\n\nThe main feast is celebrated in June. The believers go to the Temple or any place destined for the veneration, to bring sacred food, especially pig head, chicken soup, the \"sla-toa\" (ស្លាធម៌) - a coconut adorned with flowers and leaves and used in religious celebrations in Cambodia, the \"bay-sei\" (បាយសី)- section of banana tree trunk with legs to which three to nine layers of banana leaves rolled up in finger shape have been attached. It is used also in certain ceremonies.\n\nThe place of the veneration must be set with three statues:\n\n\nAccording to Seik Sopat and Sadang Tuo, the story of Yeay Mao dates from 1866, when she was a spirit of cruelty that attacked any traveller that did not pay respects to her at Pech Nil Mountain (ភ្នំពេជ្រនិល).\n\nIf the person to whom the spirit sent strong pains because ignoring to pay veneration to her, repented, that person was healed. But if that person did not repent, he or she could die.\n\nIt was also believed that if a person presented his offering asking to hurt an enemy, the spirit used to fulfil the wish.\n\nIn 1900, the French army destroyed the first temple and the divinity came in decadence.\n\nDuring the short Japanese invasion of Cambodia in 1940, the army of that country gathered the farmers of Kampot Province and Vietnamese, Chinese and Cham Cambodians, to dig trenches at the ancient sacred place. According to the legend, the workers desecrated the site, bringing the fury of the spirit. People started to suffer epidemics and many died. They explained these epidemics as the fury of Yeay Mao.\n\nIn order to placate the spirit, the people started again to offer gifts to Yeay Mao and the veneration revived. After the villages near to Pech Nil Mountain, pray to the divinity asking for health and protection. If there was, for example, a theft, they pray to the spirit to punish the criminal.\n\nNotes\n\n"}
{"id": "54774859", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54774859", "title": "Zabarima (emirate)", "text": "Zabarima (emirate)\n\nThe Zabarima Emirate was a state that existed in what is today parts of Ghana and Burkina Faso from the 1860s until 1897. \n\nThe leaders of the Zabarima Emirate originated in an area now in the nation of Niger, in an area south-east of Niamey on the east side of the Niger River. \n\nThe key moving force behind the state was Babatu who hailed from Indungu in Niger, a place that had been Muslim far longer than most of the other areas the Zabarima leadership came from, most of which became Muslim only in the 1850s or so.\n\n"}
{"id": "659365", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=659365", "title": "Zoram", "text": "Zoram\n\nZoram () is the name of three individuals in the Book of Mormon, indexed in the LDS edition as Zoram¹, Zoram², and Zoram³.\n\nZoram¹ was the servant of Laban, a wealthy inhabitant of Jerusalem. According to \"First Nephi\", Zoram led Nephi, disguised as Laban, into Laban's treasury. Nephi, speaking \"in the voice of Laban\" () commanded Zoram to take the brass plates containing \"a record of the Jews\" () to his brethren. Zoram, \"supposing that [he] spake of the brethren of the church\" () took the plates and carried them to where Nephi's brothers were waiting. When he discovered the truth, Zoram was frightened, so Nephi promised to spare his life if Zoram swore allegiance to them (), and was permitted to accompany Nephi and his brethren.\n\nZoram² was a chief captain of the Nephite army, mentioned in only two verses in the \"Book of Mormon\" (). He sought the guidance of Alma, the high priest, in locating Nephites that had been captured by the Lamanites, his son Lehi joining him. He also won a victory over the Lamanites after crossing the river Sidon. ()\n\nZoram³ was a Nephite apostate, mentioned only briefly (, ), but notable as the leader of the Zoramites, an apostate group. In reaction to the possibility of his people joining the Lamanites (), Alma the younger led a missionary effort to bring back the people (). Zoram was cited for leading the people to bow down to idols ().\n\nIn \"\", adapted from First and Second Nephi, Zoram¹ was played by Todd Davis. The portrayals were highly influenced by Arnold Friberg paintings of the characters.\n"}
