{"id": "52166239", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52166239", "title": "Akiko Nagashima", "text": "Akiko Nagashima\n\nAkiko Nagashima (January 5, 1943 - September 18, 2007) was a Japanese businesswoman and the wife of former Yomiuri Giants hitter and team manager Shigeo Nagashima and mother of actor and sports commentator Kazushige Nagashima.\n\nShe worked on a project related to the 1964 Tokyo Olympics where she met Shigeo. They married in January 1965, and she had their first son, Kazushige, a year later. She subsequently had three other children including Masaoki, now a race car driver, and Mina, a newscaster. \n\nIn 2002, she was selected to be the spokesperson for a government program dealing with the effects of global warming.\n"}
{"id": "56731543", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56731543", "title": "Alexandre Garese", "text": "Alexandre Garese\n\nAlexandre Garese (born July 11, 1968 in France) - Russian lawyer, investor and entrepreneur of French origin.\n\nIn 1991 he received a master's degree in Business and International Law. In 1993 got DEA (International Law) in Panthéon-Assas University and DESS (International Business Law) in Paris Nanterre University.\n\nIn 1992 as part of alternative service he worked as a clerk in the visa department of French embassy in Moscow.\n\nIn 1994 worked in Moscow branch of Turifin AG law bureau.\n\nHaving got additional education in 1995 Alexandre returned to Moscow where he and opened Seeberg, Stabreit и Garese law firm (at present Garese&Associates) with his colleagues.\n\nAs for the clients of his agency there were such large companies as Alfa Group, and Rossiysky Kredit.\n\nIn 2000 he was appointed an accredited arbitrator with the International commercial Arbitration Court (up to the present day).\n\nIn 2005 he opened baker chains “Volkonsky”(it includes more than 60 cafes at present). Among his other assets restaurant club Kuznia (Saint Petersburg) and business club Kelia (Moscow). In June 2017 a new gurme cafe (\"healthy food cafe\") Cooker’s was opened in Moscow.\n\nAmong other prospective areas of investment activity (among them oil and gas industry, commercial property and agribusiness).\n\nThe co-author of a book \"Investing in Russia, Ukraine, Latvia, Lithuania and Kazakhstan\".\n\nSinсe 2010 Garese is a member of Moscow Regional Bar Association. С 2014 года — a member of L’ordre des avocats du barreau de Paris [http://www.avocatparis.org/ <nowiki>[2]</nowiki>]\n\nHe has been married to Stephanie Garese (née Sikar) from a noble family since 1993. There are 6 children in the family.\n\nAlexandre Garese collects paintings, mostly Russian artists; there are more than a thousand works of the famous Soviet caricaturist groupe Kukryniksy in his collection\n\nThe interest/hobby of the recent years - Iyengar Yoga. One of the business-projects – yoga club in Moscow.\n\nHe lives in Moscow and Paris.\n\nAlexander Garese takes an active part in YPO (Young Presidents' Organization). He is in charge of one of its representative offices in France.\n\nThe major activities of YPO are the creation of environment for business contacts, exchanging of experience and promoting aspiring businessmen from different countries.\n"}
{"id": "17926414", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17926414", "title": "Bill Aho", "text": "Bill Aho\n\nBill Aho is an American businessman who is a partner with The SagePoint Group, a management consulting firm. He is the former CEO of the movie-filtering company ClearPlay. He received his B.A. from the University of Minnesota Duluth and an MBA from the Brigham Young University Marriott School of Management in 1983. Aho began his career in brand management at Procter & Gamble. He later spent nine years with PepsiCo. He also served as Senior Vice President of Strategic Planning for Darden Restaurants and was instrumental in turning around the Red Lobster business. He has been featured in many publications, including The Wall Street Journal and Forbes, and appeared on many TV and radio broadcasts, including MSNBC, Entertainment Tonight, PBS, ABC News, NPR, etc. In 2006 and 2007 he was named to the V100 as one of Utah’s top entrepreneurs.\n"}
{"id": "4136144", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4136144", "title": "BioMarin Pharmaceutical", "text": "BioMarin Pharmaceutical\n\nBioMarin Pharmaceutical Inc. is an American biotechnology company headquartered in San Rafael, California. It has offices and facilities in the United States, South America, Asia, and Europe. BioMarin's core business and research is in enzyme replacement therapies (ERTs). BioMarin was the first company to provide therapeutics for mucopolysaccharidosis type I (MPS I), by manufacturing laronidase (Aldurazyme, commercialized by Genzyme Corporation). BioMarin was also the first company to provide therapeutics for phenylketonuria (PKU).\n\nBioMarin was founded in 1997 by Christopher Starr Ph.D. and Grant W. Denison Jr. with an investment of a $1.5 million from Glyko Biomedical and went public in 1999. Seed investors were amongst others MPM Bioventures, Grosvenor Fund and Florian Schönharting.\n\nIn 2002, BioMarin acquired Glyko Biomedical.\n\nIn 2009, BioMarin acquired Huxley Pharmaceuticals, Inc. (Huxley), which had rights to a proprietary form of 3,4-diaminopyridine (3,4-DAP), amifampridine phosphate. In 2010, BioMarin was granted marketing approval by the European Commission for 3,4-diaminopyridine (3,4-DAP), amifampridine phosphate for the treatment of the rare autoimmune disease Lambert-Eaton myasthenic syndrome (LEMS). BioMarin launched the product under the name Firdapse.\n\nIn 2010, BioMarin acquired LEAD Therapeutics, Inc. (LEAD), a small private drug discovery and early stage development company with key compound LT-673, an orally available poly (ADP-ribose) polymerase (PARP) inhibitor studied for the treatment of patients with rare, genetically defined cancers. This acquisition was followed by the purchase of ZyStor Therapeutics, Inc. (ZyStor), a privately held biotechnology company developing ERTs for the treatment of lysosomal storage disorders and its lead product candidate, ZC-701, a fusion of insulin-like growth factor 2 and alpha glucosidase (IGF2-GAA) in development for Pompe disease. At its R&D day in October 2010, BioMarin also announced a new program for a peptide therapeutic, vosoritide (BMN-111), for the treatment of achondroplasia.\n\nIn 2012, BioMarin acquired Zacharon Pharmaceuticals, a private biotechnology company based in San Diego focused on developing small molecules targeting pathways of glycan metabolism.\n\nIn 2014, BioMarin acquired a histone deacetylase inhibitor chemical library from Repligen for $2 million with the intention of advancing work toward therapies for Friedreich's ataxia and other neurological disorders.\n\nIn November 2014, the company agreed the acquisition of Prosensa for up to $840 million, the range of treatments for Duchenne Muscular Dystrophy however failed to attain FDA approval and in May 2016 development ceased.\n\nThe following is an illustration of the company's major mergers and acquisitions and historical predecessors (this is not a comprehensive list):\n\nAs of 2016, BioMarin has six products on the market, each of which is an orphan drug.\n\n\nBiomarin is working to develop several new drugs.\n\n\nIn 2010, BioMarin became involved in controversy surrounding 3,4-diaminopyridine (3,4-DAP). BioMarin markets a phosphate salt of 3,4-DAP under the name Firdapse. In 2010, BioMarin was granted exclusive licensing rights to Firdapse for 10 years. As a result, the price of a prescribed National Health Service treatment course has increased from $1,987 for the unlicensed drug to $69,970 for Firdapse. The company states that prior to its licensing, there was no guaranteed quality control of the product and no way of formally monitoring for uncommon side effects through the regulatory process.\n\nIn 2013, BioMarin Pharmaceuticals was at the center of a high profile debate regarding expanded access of cancer patients to experimental drugs. On the advice of her doctor, Andrea Sloan, a patient with advanced ovarian cancer, requested that the company provide her with access to BMN 673, an unapproved PARP inhibitor drug candidate that had exhibited promising activity in a small Phase 1 clinical trial. The company declined, citing safety concerns. Ms. Sloan eventually received a similar drug candidate from a different company.\n\nIn 2015, there was another controversy over expanded access, concerning the supply of a drug on clinical trial to a German child who was suffering from a brain disorder but who was not part of the trial.\n\n\"Use YYYY-MM-DD format for publication dates\"\n"}
{"id": "16907810", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16907810", "title": "Confederación Española de Organizaciones Empresariales", "text": "Confederación Española de Organizaciones Empresariales\n\nConfederación Española de Organizaciones Empresariales (\"Spanish Confederation of Employers' Organizations\"), or CEOE, is a Spanish institution founded in June 1977 that represents the Spanish business community. It includes state-owned and private companies in all sectors. It's a member of BusinessEurope.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "25624463", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25624463", "title": "Constant elasticity of transformation", "text": "Constant elasticity of transformation\n\nConstant Elasticity of Transformation (CET) was first advanced by Alan Powell and Fred Gruen in a 1968 publication. It is a new form of production-possibility frontier.\nFollowing on that early work, George Philippidis made a detailed introduction of the CET function in 1999. The CET is the corollary CES function, where the production possibilities of the firm (industry) are a function of different combination of supply activities.\n"}
{"id": "31770166", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31770166", "title": "Cost of operation", "text": "Cost of operation\n\nThe cost of operation is the business strategy implemented in many companies to gain a huge market. Cost of operation is the cost acquired in completing one operation. It may be a conversion of inputs into the outputs or labor costs etc. If the cost of operation is low then it is easy to maintain cost leadership and gain the market with competitive advantage.\n\n"}
{"id": "25498158", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25498158", "title": "Craig Heatley", "text": "Craig Heatley\n\nCraig Leonard Heatley (born 29 May 1956) is a New Zealand businessman, entrepreneur and philanthropist. He is one of the wealthiest men in New Zealand according to the New Zealand National Business Review.\n\nHeatley set up Rainbow Corporation in the 1980s which had interests in Woolworths supermarkets, entertainment theme parks and property. Rainbow was acquired by Brierley Investments in the late 80's to gain control of Rainbows significant stake in Woolworths. Rainbow shareholders agreed to a stock swap deal worth $500 million, of which Heatley controlled 20%. Heatley was appointed to the Brierley board.\n\nHe then went on to set up Sky Network Television, Famously with a personal investment of only $1, he managed to turn it into New Zealand's only pay TV provider and one of the 10 largest New Zealand companies, whilst still retaining a 15% stake.\n\nHeatley has since sold his stake in Sky Network Television, and now has diversified interests throughout New Zealand, Asia and the U.S. which include property, infrastructure, equities and aviation. He is also a major player in the New Zealand private equity and currency markets.\n\nIn the 2013 Queen's Birthday Honours, Heatley was appointed a Companion of the New Zealand Order of Merit, for services to business.\n\nHe was born in Lower Hutt and educated at Heretaunga College and the Victoria University of Wellington.\n\nA keen avatior he is one of a very few New Zealanders to own their own private jet, a $30m Bombardier Global. He owns several properties in New Zealand (including a private island) and the United States.\n\nHeatley is a competitive amateur golfer who won the 2003 AT&T Pebble Beach National Pro-Am at Pebble Beach with professional golfer Phil Tataurangi, and the 2004 Alfred Dunhill Links Championship pro-am with professional golfer Fred Couples. He is a member of Augusta National Golf Club where he is Chairman of the Masters Tournament Media Committee.\n\n"}
{"id": "1022500", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1022500", "title": "David Davis Walker", "text": "David Davis Walker\n\nDavid Davis \"D. D.\" Walker (January 19, 1840 – October 4, 1918) was an American businessman. He started his career as a dry goods wholesaler in St. Louis, Missouri. He was the co-founder of Ely & Walker, which remains a clothing brand to this day.\n\nDavid Davis Walker was born on January 19, 1840 on a farm near Bloomington, Illinois to George E. Walker (1797–1864) and Harriet Mercer (1802–1869). His paternal grandfather, Thomas Walker, was an English slavetrader. Walker was a first cousin of Senator and Supreme Court Justice David Davis.\n\nAt age fourteen, he was sent to the Beloit Preparatory Academy, part of Beloit College in Wisconsin.\n\nIn 1857, Walker went to St. Louis for business training with the merchandiser Crow, McCreery & Co., then the largest wholesale dry goods house in the city. He worked his way up from office boy, and became a partner after just eight years with the firm. He became ill as a result of his workaholic habits, quitting in 1878, and spent the next two years recovering.\n\nIn 1880, he went back to work, forming Ely, Walker & Co. with Frank Ely and others. The business was a huge success, and in 1883 it was incorporated as the Ely & Walker Dry Goods Company. He remained President of the company until 1892, and thereafter retained the largest interest in the firm. His sons David Davis, Jr., Joseph Sidney and George Herbert all had involvement with the Ely & Walker firm, which continued as a major clothing manufacturer until it was acquired by Burlington Industries after World War II, but George went into banking.\n\nWalker married Martha Adela Beaky. They had a son, George Herbert Walker.\n\nWalker died in 1918 at Walker's Point, his son George's seaside property in Kennebunkport, Maine, the modern-day Bush compound now occupied by former President George H.W. Bush. His great-grandson, George H. W. Bush, and his great-great-grandson, George W. Bush, both served as President of the United States.\n\n"}
{"id": "1441810", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1441810", "title": "Downtown Brooklyn", "text": "Downtown Brooklyn\n\nDowntown Brooklyn is the third largest central business district in New York City, United States (following Midtown Manhattan and Lower Manhattan), and is located in the northwestern section of the borough of Brooklyn. The neighborhood is known for its office and residential buildings, such as the Williamsburgh Savings Bank Tower and the MetroTech Center office complex. \n\nSince the rezoning of Downtown Brooklyn in 2004, the area has been undergoing a transformation, with $9 billion of private investment and $300 million in public improvements underway. The area is a growing hub for education. In 2017, New York University announced that it would invest over $500 million to renovate and expand the NYU Tandon School of Engineering and its surrounding Downtown Brooklyn-based campus.\n\nThis area was originally inhabited by Lenape Native Americans, until the 17th century. Area close to the Wallabout Bay was called Rinnegokonk. At that time the Dutch arrived, gained control of the land, and called it Breuckelen. The waterfront area being sold by Indians to Joris Jansen Rapelje, who used the land for farm purposes. Until 1814, Downtown Brooklyn and Brooklyn Heights remained sparsely populated. Robert Fulton’s new steam ferry then began to offer an easy commuting option to and from downtown Manhattan. It made Brooklyn Heights Manhattan’s first suburb, and put Downtown Brooklyn on its way to becoming a commercial center, and the heart of the City of Brooklyn.\n\nThe city was home to many prominent abolitionists at a time when most of New York was indifferent to slavery. Many Brooklyn churches agitated against legalized slavery in the 1850s and 1860s and some acted as safehouses as part of the Underground Railroad movement. Walt Whitman was fired from his job as a reporter at the Brooklyn Eagle due to his support for the Wilmot Proviso when he lived at Willoughby and Myrtle Avenues. A group of buildings at 223, 225, 227, 231, 233, and 235 Duffield Street, in addition to the African Wesleyan Methodist Episcopal Church located in MetroTech Center, were believed to be among the safehouses.\n\nThe middle 19th century growth of the Port of New York caused shipping to spill over into the City of Brooklyn; many buildings now used for other purposes were built as warehouses and factories. Manufacturing intensified with the building of the Brooklyn and Manhattan Bridges; buildings from that time include the 1915 Sperry Gyroscope Company building, now known as the Howard Building of CUNY. New, extensive infrastructure served the Brooklyn Bridge trolleys.\n\nFollowing World War II, the City Planning Commission, in conjunction with the Borough President’s Office, presented and adopted a Master Plan for the Civic Center, which included an ambitious public improvements program. The program included plans for new buildings for City and State agencies, significant street widening and major housing construction in adjacent areas. A study conducted eight years later highlighted the progress made, emphasizing the widening of Adams Street (and later Boerum Place), which created a long and sweeping approach to Downtown Brooklyn from a modernized Brooklyn Bridge.\n\nBy the late 1960s, the patterns of transition that affected much of urban America initiated concern to protect the borough’s Central Business District from deterioration. In 1969, a comprehensive plan for the entire city was completed and in the report the City Planning Commission stated, “[Downtown Brooklyn’s] economy is vital to the borough and important to the entire metropolitan region.” In re-affirming Downtown Brooklyn’s central role and identifying its problems, the Plan was optimistic that a combination of public and private efforts would stimulate office and commercial construction. A 23-story privately financed office tower at Boerum Place and Livingston Street opened in 1971 and the anticipated growth of the Brooklyn Academy of Music (BAM) succeeded far beyond expectations, giving this cultural institution an important role as a symbolic anchor amid increasing decay during the following decade.\n\nAfter suffering with the rest of New York through the fiscal crisis of the mid-1970s, Borough President Howard Golden, first elected in 1977, moved forward with a more aggressive economic development program to revitalize Downtown Brooklyn. He identified the need for greater equity in resource allocation between Manhattan and the city’s other boroughs. An important moment in the history of Downtown Brooklyn came in 1983 with the release of a Regional Plan Association report for the area. According to the document, Downtown Brooklyn could become the city’s third-largest business district because of its proximity to Lower Manhattan (closer by subway than Midtown). It also could serve as a prime location for high technology industries and new market-rate housing. The State Street Houses Historic District was listed on the National Register of Historic Places in 1980.\n\nHistorically, Downtown Brooklyn was primarily a commercial and civic center, with relatively little residential development. Housing included a few apartment buildings on Livingston Street, and seven 15-story buildings that make up the over 1,000 unit Concord Village co-op development on Adams Street, at the borders of both Brooklyn Heights and Dumbo. Since the rezoning of parts of Downtown Brooklyn in 2004 to allow for denser residential development, the area has seen the arrival of new condominium towers, townhouses, and office conversions. In all, 14,000 residential units were planned for Downtown Brooklyn at that time. A New York Sun article from November 7, 2007, reports on the arrival of Downtown Brooklyn as a 24/7 community, estimating that 35,000 residents will come to the area in the next five years. In January 2008, residents started moving into the new residential buildings, according to a New York Sun article.\nThe New York City Department of City Planning approved another, significant rezoning for portions of Downtown Brooklyn, including the Fulton Mall area, which resulted in significant expansion of office space and ground-floor retail, such as those at City Point. The rezoning consists of \"zoning map and zoning text changes, new public open spaces, pedestrian and transit improvements, urban renewal, [and] street mappings\". The City Planning initiative also seeks to improve the connections between Downtown and the adjacent neighborhoods of Cobble Hill, Boerum Hill, and Fort Greene.\n\n, the rezoning of Downtown Brooklyn had caused gentrification in nearby neighborhoods. Affordable housing was created in the area after the 2004 rezoning, with 420 affordable units in 2014. The housing increase has also resulted in positive effects on other aspects of Downtown Brooklyn's economy as well, with revenues for the area's hospitality industry having tripled since 2004.\n\nSome of this gentrification was controversial, however. In 2007, the city government was to acquire the houses at 223–235 Duffield Street via eminent domain, then demolish the houses and replace them with 500 new hotel rooms, 1,000 units of mixed-income housing, more than 500,000 square feet of retail space, and at least 125,000 square feet of new office space in the area; however, only 231 Duffield Street was replaced by a hotel. Still, this caused historians to protest over the planned demolition of the historic houses because of their importance to abolitionists during the American Civil War.\n\nDowntown Brooklyn is the civic and commercial downtown center of the former City of Brooklyn, which, as of 2010, has 2.6 million residents. The area includes Brooklyn Borough Hall, the Kings County New York State courthouse, and the Theodore Roosevelt Courthouse for the federal Eastern District of New York. Schools include Brooklyn Friends School, St. Francis College, St. Joseph's College, Brooklyn Law School, NYU Tandon School of Engineering, Center for Urban Science and Progress, New York City College of Technology, and Long Island University. Attractions within the area include the Fulton Mall, Brooklyn Academy of Music, New York Transit Museum and Barclays Center.\n\nThree days a week the Borough Hall Greenmarket, featuring fresh produce from local farmers, operates on the plaza fronting Borough Hall. Formerly called Supreme Court Plaza, the location was renamed as Columbus Park in 1986.\n\nMetroTech Center, a business and educational center, lies between Flatbush Avenue and Jay Street, above the Jay Street – MetroTech subway station, north of the Fulton Street Mall, and south of the busy Tillary Street.\n\nCadman Plaza Park, named for a prominent evangelist, provides of green space in the neighborhood, and was recently renovated by the New York City Parks Department. These and other parks form a long mall from Borough Hall to Brooklyn Bridge. A new park is also planned for the area, known as the Willoughby Square Park.\n\nAt the northeastern corner of Downtown Brooklyn is Bridge Plaza, bounded by Flatbush Avenue Extension and Manhattan Bridge on the west, Tillary Street on the south, and the Brooklyn-Queens Expressway (BQE) on the north and east. The newer term RAMBO, an acronym for Right Around The Manhattan Bridge Overpass is sometimes applied to the area, comparing it to DUMBO. The neighborhood was connected to Vinegar Hill until the 1950s, when construction of the BQE effectively isolated it from surrounding areas.\n\nThe United States Postal Service operates the Brooklyn Main Post Office at 271 Cadman Plaza East in Downtown Brooklyn.\n\nDowntown Brooklyn is connected with Manhattan by the Brooklyn and Manhattan Bridges.\n\nThe neighborhood has extensive public transportation accessibility; it is served by the New York City Subway and many bus lines. All but one Manhattan trunk line in Lower Manhattan has a direct connection to Downtown Brooklyn. From south to north, the IRT Lexington Avenue Line () via the Joralemon Street Tunnel, the BMT Broadway and BMT Nassau Street Lines () via the Montague Street Tunnel, the IRT Broadway–Seventh Avenue Line () via the Clark Street Tunnel and the IND Eighth Avenue Line () via the Cranberry Street Tunnel provide that service. Slightly farther north, the Manhattan Bridge () and Rutgers Street Tunnel () also feed subway trains from the Lower East Side into Downtown Brooklyn.\n\nMajor stations in the neighborhood are:\n\n\nA $130 million capital project to connect Lawrence Street–MetroTech () and Jay Street–Borough Hall (), which also included renovation of both stations, was completed on December 10, 2010. It features an underground corridor on Willoughby Street connecting both stations, which includes new escalator and elevator access to Lawrence Street.\n\nThe Long Island Rail Road stops at the Atlantic Terminal, located at the intersection of Atlantic and Flatbush Avenues.\n\n"}
{"id": "4019767", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4019767", "title": "Ellen Biddle Shipman", "text": "Ellen Biddle Shipman\n\nEllen Biddle Shipman (November 5, 1869 – March 27, 1950) was an American landscape architect known for her formal gardens and lush planting style. Along with Beatrix Farrand and Marian Cruger Coffin, she dictated the style of the time and strongly influenced landscape design as a member of the first generation to break into the largely male occupation.\n\nCommenting about the male dominated field to the \"New York Times\" in 1938, she said \"before women took hold of the profession, landscape architects were doing what I call cemetery work.\" Shipman preferred to look on her career of using plantings as if she \"were painting pictures as an artist.\" Little of her work remains today because of the labor-intensive style of her designs, but there exist preserved spaces, including the Sarah P. Duke Gardens at Duke University, often cited as one of the most beautiful American college campuses.\n\nShe is buried in Plainfield, New Hampshire, near Brook Place, her estate there.\n\nShipman was born in Philadelphia, and she spent her childhood in Texas and the Arizona territory. Her father, Colonel James Biddle, was a career Army officer, stationed on the western frontier. When the safety of his family was threatened, he moved them to the McGowan farm in Elizabeth, New Jersey. Shipman attended boarding school in Baltimore, Maryland, where her interests in the arts emerged and by her twenties she had already started drawing garden designs.\n\nWhen she entered the Harvard annex, Radcliffe College, Shipman met a playwright attending Harvard named Louis Shipman. They left school after one year, married, and moved to Plainfield, New Hampshire, in the Cornish Art Colony, which included Maxfield Parrish and Augustus Saint-Gaudens. The colony is said to have been landscaped by artists who were not architects, but had artistically trained eyes and an awareness for the aesthetics of repose, which gave rise to a collection of some of the finest gardens in the country. Shipman took strongly to the Cornish style, one that focused on geometric patterns and colonial plantings, and with it created her own style – a style which did not go unnoticed.\n\nShipman's colleague and fellow member of the Cornish Art Colony, Charles A. Platt, was an artist and architect known for his interest in Italian gardens. Platt recognized Shipman's talents. He did not know much about horticulture, but was highly respected and thought of as \"the man who could design both house and garden for a country estate\", for he had recently made a trip to Italy and wrote a book about the gardens there.\n\nBy the time the Shipmans divorced in 1910, Ellen Shipman was well on her way to establishing herself as a talented garden designer nationwide. She and Platt played off their mutual requirements: Platt needed Ellen for her knowledge of horticulture and Ellen needed Platt for his knowledge of drafting and design. Shipman was also heavily influenced by Gertrude Jekyll's brilliant use of borders, as well as memories of her grandparents’ farm. By 1920 she was working independently of Platt, though they continued to collaborate on his residential projects.\n\nAmong Shipman's earliest collaborations with Platt was the Cooperstown, New York estate of Fynmere in 1913, owned by the Cooper family on the edge of the village. This project, for descendants of William Cooper, provided significant visibility for Shipman. While the stone mansion was demolished in 1979, a few elements of the landscape work survive. Shipman also designed the adjoining Cooper estate of Heathcote, which is extant today in private hands. A similar task was undertaken at the Gwinn Estate in Cleveland, where she was asked by Platt to aid him and Warren H. Manning in their garden designs. It was finished in 1912, one of her earliest projects, and one where her job was largely planting oriented, filling the designs of Platt with lush flower arrangements. The courtyard gardens of Manhattan's Astor Court Building were another Platt-Shipman collaboration. Platt and Shipman's 1915 design for the Parmelee estate, The Causeway, in Washington D.C. included a Wild Garden surrounding the mansion and formal gardens. It featured mature trees, large clumps of plants such as rhododendron, walking and riding paths, stone bridges and a pond. This is the only surviving example of Shipman's Wild Gardens. The Causeway is now called Tregaron Estate and is open to the public.\n\nSeen in many ways as Platt's protégé, Shipman was asked on various occasions to rework one of his gardens, including Platt's first major commission, High Court. Located across the road from Platt's own house in Cornish, New Hampshire, Anson Goodyear hired Shipman to revitalize the plantings and reconfigure the garden walls.\n\nHer other significant gardens include the Bayou Bend Gardens, Longue Vue Gardens in New Orleans, Stan Hywet Gardens, the Graycliff Estate (now under restoration), Stranahan Estate (also under reconstruction), Middleton House and Robert M. Hanes House at Winston-Salem, North Carolina and Duke University's Sarah P. Duke Gardens, which is often named one of her finest works. \n\nShipman created her own residential gardens all over the United States, collaborating with many architects. Her planting plans softened the bones of geometric architecture with planting designs that were muscular enough to speak for themselves. She once said, \"Remember that the design of your place is its skeleton upon which you will later plant to make your picture. Keep that skeleton as simple as possible.\"\n\nShipman's gardens often appeared in magazines, including \"House Beautiful\". In 1933, \"House & Garden\" named her the \"Dean of Women Landscape Architects\". She lectured widely, and completed over 400 projects. Her archives are at Cornell University. Because much of her work includes labor-intensive plantings and borders, many have not survived. However, it was because of these borders that she was able to connect with her female clientele. Her intent was to provide privacy and a place for interaction with the surroundings. Women found the gardens provided familiarity and comfort.\n\nIt is said that throughout the 40 years she practiced landscape architecture, Shipman would only hire graduates from Lowthorpe School of Landscape Architecture, Gardening, and Horticulture for Women. Although it is not thoroughly understood why this was her hiring practice, it is widely believed that because of the time, women were not being given apprenticeships in male offices.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "12749678", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12749678", "title": "Employee offboarding", "text": "Employee offboarding\n\nEmployee exit management or offboarding describes the consciously designed separation process when an employee leaves the company, for which he has previously worked within the scope of a work or service contract. It deals with the formal processes revolving around an employee’s exit from an organization either through voluntary resignation, layoffs or termination.\n\nOffboarding is understood here as a software-supported process in personnel and identity management, which ensures the safe deactivation and documentation of the access rights of employees who have been relieved, thus preventing data misuse and theft. As part of computer security, the process will also ensure that access privileges are revoked when a person leaves, and may also cover other issues such as the recovery of equipment, keys and credit cards to ensure that security integrity be maintained.\nIn addition, some HR management solutions provide the generation of guidance for the exit interview or \"run-offs\", by which, for example, the return of company ownership - such as mobile PC and communication devices or company cars - is ensured and the consequences of the departure can be systematically processed for the internal processes (eg the disposition of employee parking spaces or utilization in the cafeteria). The execution of the exit interview itself is already part of the process of offboarding the second variant:\nWhen an employee is relieved there are a number of considerations that an organization needs to make in order to cleanly end the relationship between the company and the employee. The company as a legal entity has a responsibility to the employee which may extend beyond the period of employment and this is the primary focus of the exit procedure.\n\nA good off-boarding process has many benefits including positive employee referral, rehiring and word of mouth. The positive signal to the departing employee as well as to his remaining colleagues by the open handling of an (inevitable) separation and the associated positive effects on the employee satisfaction speaks for the good internal implementation of the off-boarding process (assuming the professional qualification of the internal coaches) Employer's imagination and an open and honest corporate culture. \n\nIn case of the external implementation of the off-boarding process by an external coach, one can say that the latter assumes a more neutral position, which is not colored by common experiences or individual roles and power positions. It may also be advantageous for the external coach to be able to accompany his or her clients free of the objectives of the (former) company and thus - at least in the client's consciousness - more openly and more unobtrusively. The stronger focus on the future, which the coach embodies as an external, can be another argument for this approach. At times the external monitoring can begin before the last working day of the departing employee, but it does not have to end there.\n\nEmployees may terminate their contract by resigning or an employer may terminate the contract by dismissing an employee.\n\nShort term employment is when an employee is hired for less than one year. These will normally end automatically once the end date is reached. However, the employer may wish to end the contract earlier or extend the contract.\n\nA temporary contract is usually around 3 months long. Employers may recruit temporary employees during busy periods such as Christmas. At the end of the temporary contract the employer may wish to offer a permanent position or extend the temporary contract. Temporary contract will also automatically end once the end date is reached.\n\nEmployees maybe hired on a contractor basis for the completing of a certain task. Once the task is completed or the event takes place the contract ends.this type of contract employees falls under seasonal works.\n\nDismissal is when the employer ends the contract of an employee. This must be done in a fair way.\n\nThere are different types of dismissal:\n\nIf the employer dismisses you from 6 April 2009 onwards, they should follow the procedures which are laid out in the Acas Code of Practice on disciplinary and grievance procedures.\n\nThe procedure should have the following steps:\n\nAn employer may dismiss you if you are unable to complete the job to the required standard or you have the capability to complete to a high standard but for some reason or another you are unable to.\n\nThere is no specific process by law an employer must follow in order to dismiss an individual however it must be carried out fairly.\n\nMisconduct includes persistent lateness or unauthorised absence. It is based on serious misconduct or gross misconduct. Serious misconduct includes poor performance for which the employee should be provided with a formal warning which states that not improving could lead to dismissal. Gross misconduct includes theft, physical violence, serious insubordination and gross negligence for which the employee may be dismissed immediately.\n\nAn employee may be dismissed due to medical reasons. In some countries, the employer must pay for the employee whilst dismissed for a period not exceeding 20 weeks. The employer may wish to provide the employee with alternative work for the period of time, which is suited to your medical needs.\n\nRedundancy is when you dismiss an employee because you no longer need anyone to do their job.\n\nBoth company Liquidation and Administration can lead to the end of the company. Company administration intention is to help the company repay its debts and avoid insolvency. Liquidation is when the company is forced to sell all of its assets before the company vanishes as a whole. This will result in the employees being made redundant.\nYou’ll normally be entitled to statutory redundancy pay if you’re an employee and you’ve been working for your current employer for 2 years or more.\n\nYou’ll get:\nLength of service is capped at 20 years and weekly pay is capped at £475. The maximum amount of statutory redundancy pay is £14,250.\n\n"}
{"id": "24310774", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24310774", "title": "Enterprise forms automation", "text": "Enterprise forms automation\n\nEnterprise forms automation is a company-wide computer system or set of systems for managing, distributing, completing and processing paper-based forms, applications, surveys, contracts and other documents. It plays a vital role towards achieving the goal of a paperless office.\n\nThe term \"enterprise forms automation\" was first used in the mid 1990s by JetForm Corporation to describe their solution to automating paperwork. This process was later acquired by Adobe Systems and is now part of the Adobe LiveCycle suite of products. In 2004 Efficient Technology Inc became the first company to apply this term in the software as a service. \n\nThis term is intended to refer to the automation of paper-based processes that specifically rely on documents (forms, applications, etc.) that retain their paper-based look and feel even if not printed out during the process. In order for a forms automation solution to be considered an ‘Enterprise Forms Automation’ solution it must meet the requirements of enterprise software and be specifically focused on automating paperwork and paper-based forms.\n\nOrganizations implement enterprise software solutions in order to automate major functions and large processes as these areas offer the greatest cost savings and return on investment compared to smaller projects. Enterprise-level implementations often cost well over $100,000 and therefore take many months to realize cost savings. As such, automating smaller functions are ignored due to the lack of immediate financial benefit or cost savings. As functions become more and more automated while software costs for enterprise systems drop in price, organizations begin automating lower-level functions in order to reap additional cost savings and become more efficient. In addition, through the advent of standards like Adobe’s PDF model and service models like Quik!, automating the process of filling out forms is one such area that companies seek to automate via Enterprise Forms Automation solutions. \n\nAutomating forms also has a positive ‘green’ impact on the environment. In order to reduce waste and carbon emissions, companies seek ways to eliminate paper. By deploying an Enterprise Forms Automation system, companies can eliminate paper entirely or significantly reduce how much paper is used, while greatly reducing shipping and handling costs, storage costs, and printing costs associated to pre-printed forms. In addition, automating paper-based processes greatly speeds up the time it takes to perform transactions, which results in fewer errors, rejections and revisions and has the benefit of freeing up the time spent by users on manual labor.\n\nIn today’s implementation of the paperless office concept there are two main focuses: creating documents and managing documents. Since major systems have already displaced paper altogether (e.g. enterprise resource planning, customer relationship management, accounting software, etc.), the paper that continues to be in use is largely generated by processes that capture data, generate reports and distribute communications. As software and computers have evolved, the first problem to be addressed has been the management of existing and legacy documents through document management systems. \n\nDocument management and archiving systems do offer some methods of automating forms. Typically, the point in which document management systems start working with a document is when the document is scanned and/or sent into the system. Many document management systems include the ability to read documents via optical character recognition (OCR) and use that data within the document management system’s framework. While this technology is essential to achieving a paperless office it does not address the processes that generate paper in the first place.\n\nThe ultimate step towards eliminating paper is to change the way that documents are created. In 1993 Adobe Systems introduced the Portable Document Format (PDF) in order to facilitate the exchange of documents in a universal manner across most computer platforms. This format has laid the foundation for creating, transporting, working on and archiving electronic documents and in 2008 became an ISO standard. In addition, the PDF model established a method for automating forms that allows forms to be prefilled with existing data and manually entered on a PC screen which can greatly reduce and/or eliminate the number of paper forms being printed.\n\nA typical Enterprise Forms Automation implementation typically combines the following technologies:\n\nThe primary challenge to making use of these technologies is a matter of resource planning and implementation costs, however all of the necessary technologies have been in existence since at least 2000. Furthermore, the Electronic Signatures in Global and National Commerce Act (ESIGN Act) was signed into legislation by Congress requiring that digital signatures be accepted as valid signatures. But even with the law in effect, companies have been slow to adopt such solutions due to the cost and skills required to design, build and maintain such systems at a reasonable price.\n\nA secondary challenge is integrating the electronic forms into an existing process, whereby existing data stores can be accessed and supplied to and from the forms. While tools to assist with the integration exist, most implementations require custom programming efforts to the specific forms and data sources.\n\nMany of these challenges are being addressed by middleware solutions, technology platforms and services that tie all the pieces together. Known as Enterprise Application Integration (“EAI”), developers of EAI solutions are continually introducing new cost-effective methods to take advantage of web-based and centrally-managed capabilities plus the ability to leverage legacy system architecture. With each advancement in EAI technologies enterprise forms automation becomes easier to implement and manage.\n\n"}
{"id": "6802311", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6802311", "title": "Enterprise social software", "text": "Enterprise social software\n\nEnterprise social software (also known as or regarded as a major component of Enterprise 2.0), comprises social software as used in \"enterprise\" (business/commercial) contexts. It includes social and networked modifications to corporate intranets and other classic software platforms used by large companies to organize their communication. In contrast to traditional enterprise software, which imposes structure prior to use, enterprise social software tends to encourage use prior to providing structure.\n\nCarl Frappaolo and Dan Keldsen defined Enterprise 2.0 in a report written for Association for Information and Image Management (AIIM) as \"a system of web-based technologies that provide rapid and agile collaboration, information sharing, emergence and integration capabilities in the extended enterprise\".\n\nSocial software for an enterprise must (according to Andrew McAfee, Associate Professor, Harvard Business School) have the following functionality to work well :\n\n\nMcAfee recommends installing easy-to-use software which does not impose any rigid structure on users. He envisages an informal roll-out, but on a common platform to enable future collaboration between areas. He also recommends strong and visible managerial support to achieve this.\n\nIn 2007 Dion Hinchcliffe expanded the list above by adding the following four functions:\n\n\nEnterprise search differs from a typical web search in its focus on \"use within an organization by employees seeking information held internally, in a variety of formats and locations, including databases, document management systems, and other repositories\".\n\nThere has been recent criticism that the adaptation of the social paradigm (e.g. openness and altruistic behavior) does not always work well for the enterprise setting, which led some authors to question the proper functioning of enterprise social software. The findings from a novel study suggests that free and non-anonymous sharing of trusted information (beyond marketing or product information) is significantly influenced by concerns from business users.\n\n"}
{"id": "35469291", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35469291", "title": "Estonian Chamber of Commerce and Industry", "text": "Estonian Chamber of Commerce and Industry\n\nThe Estonian Chamber of Commerce and Industry (ECCI) is a business network in Estonia. The largest in the country, it has over 3000 members. The chamber has operated continuously since 1989. Originally established in 1925, it was closed down after 15 years during the Soviet occupation, resuming after re-independence in 1989.\n\nThe ECCI is governed by a board of 15 people, with a President. Staff are employed at the main office in Tallinn, and also in regional offices in Pärnu (west coast), Tartu (south-east/central), Jõhvi (east) and Kuressaare (western isles).\n\nThe services offered by the Chamber include consultations, issue of foreign trade documents, searching for cooperation partners, contact events, training and other activities necessary for business activities of entrepreneurs. In providing services the Chamber is supported by competent personnel and diverse databases that contain information regarding companies, laws and regulations etc. The Chamber of Commerce pays a lot of attention to communication between the members and facilitating business activities.\n\nPublications include: Leading Brands of Estonia and Estonian Export Directory. \nThe ECCI was involved in the creation of the national standards body for Estonia, known as Eesti Standardikeskus (EVS), as a non-profit association. EVS is recognised by the International Organization for Standardization.\n"}
{"id": "37962427", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37962427", "title": "F. David Boswell", "text": "F. David Boswell\n\nDave Boswell (born c. 1956) is a Canadian computer scientist who was awarded the J.W. Graham Medal for his contributions to the field in 2003.\n\nBoswell earned his undergraduate and Masters in Computer Science at the University of Waterloo in Ontario, Canada.\nWhile he was a student and after he earned his masters in 1980, Boswell worked under J. Wesley Graham, a senior Computer Scientist at the University of Waterloo, who had broadly managed teams at Waterloo that developed several widely used computer language compilers.\n\nOne of the first languages that was his design was the ″Waterloo Systems Language″, intended for systems programming, which introduced some new flow control constructs.\n\nBoswell worked in compiler design at the University of Waterloo's Computer Systems Group until 1988, when he was one of the founders of Watcom.\nWatcom's other products were written in the Waterloo Systems Language.\nWatcom developed Watcom C and several other successful products until it was acquired by Powersoft in 1994 for $100 million.\nPowersoft was in turn acquired by Sybase and Boswell was made a Sybase vice-president.\n\nIn 1998 Boswell left Sybase and was one of the founders of LivePage, in Waterloo. In 1999 Boswell was the President of LivePage when it merged or was acquired by Janna Systems, for $19 million.\n\n"}
{"id": "11192407", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11192407", "title": "Federation of Small Businesses", "text": "Federation of Small Businesses\n\nThe Federation of Small Businesses (FSB) is a UK business organisation representing small and medium-sized businesses. It was formed in 1974 as the National Federation of Self Employed (NFSE). The current name for the organisation was adopted in 1991. It is registered with Companies House as The National Federation of Self Employed & Small Businesses Limited (company number 1263540).\n\nFSB is a member-led, not-for-profit and non-party political organisation. FSB is a lobbying organisation representing small firms and the self-employed to UK, national, local and devolved government. FSB offers its members a range of benefits, such as a 24-hour legal advice line and free business banking.\n\nIn January 2018, FSB's Board of Directors altered the organisation's volunteer structure by switching from elected Branches & Regions to an unelected, ad-hoc approach to local lobbying & representation.\nThis necessitated changes to FSB's National Council which now comprises 12 appointed representatives, selected from the 9 English regions and the 3 devolved countries.\n\nIn 2017 FSB had 184 branches around the UK and these were grouped into 33 regions. Each branch and region has its own committee. In addition, there is a national committee which includes representatives from each regional committee.\n\nFSB runs a number of national campaigns on behalf of its members, to highlight the needs of Small Businesses and the Self Employed. Most recently FSB ran a ‘Wellbeing’ campaign to support the health of small business owners and their staff. The campaign was backed by MIND, Public Health England, UK Active, and Seb Coe. Historically, previous campaigns have included:\n\nFSB also supports a number of other national campaigns on behalf of its members, to highlight the needs of Small Businesses and the Self Employed.\n\nFSB's past political lobbying activities have led in its own opinion to a number of benefits for small businesses, such as:\n\n\nFSB organises events aimed at supporting FSB, its members and the small business community around the United Kingdom.\nNational events are arranged by FSB's Events Team based in the Blackpool office, with the assistance of a nationwide network of staff and volunteers.\n\nThe FSB National Conference attracts more than 1,100 attendees from all over the United Kingdom. Speakers have included Prime Ministers, Leader of the Opposition, Chancellor of the Exchequer and many more.\n\nThe FSB National Conference was replaced with a Business Show in 2017. \n\nFSB is running a series of regional Awards to celebrate small businesses. These are open for nomination now, with 12 categories in each. The awards will take place in Spring 2018, building up to a national final in May 2018 as part of FSB’s Chairman’s Dinner.\n\nFSB is represented at local events like Nottinghamshire County Fair, Lincoln Show, Love Business East Midlands, and others. FSB's Regions and Branches host regular meetings around the country. Generally Branch meetings are open to all members. FSB also runs business networking events around the UK.\n\nFSB is a member-led federation. Membership criteria are as follows:\n\n\nThe membership was 185,000 in 2006 and >160,000 in 2016. The membership is 200,000+ if Joint, Associate, Retired, Connect and Business Creation (pre-start-up) affiliates are included. \n\nThe FSB Small Business Index measures confidence among small firms. The FSB SBI has been quoted by the Bank of England, the BBC, Economia, and EADT.\n\nThe current logo for the organisation was adopted in November 2015. The costs of this re-branding was £0.3M and took well over a year to complete including a complete re-branding of the FSB Website.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "8860362", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8860362", "title": "Hassan Nemazee", "text": "Hassan Nemazee\n\nHassan Nemazee (born January 27, 1950) is a multimillionaire Iranian-American investment banker and convicted felon.\n\nNemazee was born in Washington, D.C. on January 27, 1950 and attended Landon School, graduating in 1968. He received his Bachelor of Arts (BA) degree with Honors from Harvard University in 1972.\n\nNemazee has not returned to Iran since the Iranian revolution. Most of his family's property was seized by the new Iranian government. On August 25, 2009 Nemazee was arrested for fraudulently applying for a loan of over $74 million from Citigroup. The maximum penalty for the offense is 30 years in prison. He was subsequently accused of fraudulently obtaining $292 million of loans from three banks and of using the proceeds to both support his lifestyle and make political contributions\n\nNemazee is the brother of Susie Nemazee, the wife of the British Ambassador in Washington DC, Sir Peter Westmacott.\n\nNemazee is the Chairman of Nemazee Capital. Based upon the allegations of fraud contained in Mr. Nemazee's indictment, it is difficult to determine what legitimate business, if any, was ever conducted by Nemazee Capital.\n\nNemazee Capital was established in 1987 and was purported, on its website, to have, either directly or through associated entities, invested in the following sectors: health care, media, oil and gas, insurance, investment banking, asset management, newspapers, real estate development, technology, and communications.\n\nNemazee claims to have created Nemazee Holdings in the early 1970s and entered the financial services industry by partnering directly with AIG; at the time, according to information supplied by Nemazee, it was unique for the insurance giant to enter into such a relationship. Around this same time Nemazee claims to have created a joint venture for the establishment of a bank with Morgan Guaranty Trust Company, predecessor to JP Morgan & Co. Nemazee Capital evolved out of Nemazee Holdings and originally focused on real estate development.\n\nNemazee was, prior to his arrest, also known as one of the top political bundlers in the United States.\n\nPresident Clinton nominated Nemazee to be Ambassador to Argentina on January 6, 1999, but the nomination was returned without action on August 5, 1999.\n\nDuring the United States presidential election, 2004, Nemazee was a supporter of John Kerry and a major contributor to his campaign. \nHe was the New York Finance Chair for the Kerry campaign, and later the national finance chairman of the Democratic Senatorial Campaign Committee. \nWith Nemazee as the national finance chair, Chuck Schumer's DSCC in 2006 raised $115 million, outpacing the NRSC by substantial sums, and helping the Democratic Party take control of the Senate. During his presidency, Bill Clinton nominated Nemazee to fill the position of U.S. Ambassador to Argentina. Due to Congressional concerns about Nemazee's convoluted and controversial business dealings, the nomination was subsequently withdrawn\nMore recently, Nemazee served as Finance Chairman to Hillary Clinton's 2007-08 presidential campaign, and also donated $50,000 (the maximum amount) to Barack Obama's Presidential Inaugural Committee. In addition, Nemazee was a bundler for the 2009 Presidential Inaugural Committee.\n\nHassan Nemazee was arrested on August 25, 2009 for allegedly defrauding Citi bank by using false documents to secure a loan.\n\nNemazee's additional frauds exceed $100 Million, according to Federal prosecutors \n\nIn July 2010 he was convicted of multiple counts of bank fraud and wire fraud and was sentenced to 12½ years in prison by U.S. District Court Judge Sidney H. Stein in the United States District Court for the Southern District of New York in Manhattan. The sentence was lighter than the 15½ to 19½ years that prosecutors had wanted.\n\n"}
{"id": "17574605", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17574605", "title": "Hezekiah Frith", "text": "Hezekiah Frith\n\nHezekiah Frith, Sr. (1763–1848) was an 18th-century British ship owner with the reputation of a \"gentleman privateer\", who engaged in piracy during the 1790s. One of the richest men in Bermuda during the late 18th and early 19th centuries, he built the Spithead House in Warwick, Bermuda.\n\nHe was married three times, his daughters all marrying Presbyterian ministers; his son Hezekiah Frith, Jr. became a prominent religious figure. Brother and sister Heather Nova and Mishka, two popular Bermudian singers and songwriters, are descendants of Frith. Other notable descendants include Graham Frith, one of original Buy Out Riddim and Smirnoff Ice promoters; Duncan Frith-Hunter, Learn-a-lot class of 1994; and Ian Frith, EDM connoisseur, part-time professional fence consultant, and the 4th member of Swedish House Mafia. When pictured together, the three Frith brothers are commonly referred to as Ert, Win & Fyah!\n\nBorn in Bermuda, he was one of seven children born to Captain William Frith and Sarah Lee. As a successful shipowner during the 1780s and 90s, he became engaged in privateering and smuggling, from which he reportedly made his fortune. As was normal practise in Bermuda, he often mixed slaves and free men in his crews. In August 1796 he slipped into the French port of Cap Français at San Domingo during the night and stole away a captured British transport ship.\n\nHis colourful piratical career may very likely be exaggerated. Participating in a number of privateering expeditions with the Royal Navy, he is supposed to have hoarded treasure from at least two captured ships in the store he operated next to the Spithead House; he supposedly used the water tank at Spithead to smuggle captured goods and other valuable items before filing claim at the Customs House. Frith is also claimed to have rescued (or kidnapped) a Frenchwoman, whom he kept there as a mistress: both are said to haunt the house, according to local lore. The house would later be owned successively by dramatist Eugene O'Neill, Sir Noël Coward and Charlie Chaplin.\n\nThe Granaway home on Harbor Road, which he had built for his daughter, was later bought by a family of free blacks descended from a slave named Caprice, who had originally been brought to Bermuda on a ship captured by Hezekiah Frith on one of his voyages. Adele Tucker, a well-known Bermudian educator and co-founder of Bermuda Union of Teachers, grew up in the home.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "53610552", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53610552", "title": "Ivan Chrenko", "text": "Ivan Chrenko\n\nIvan Chrenko (born 1967/68) is a Slovak billionaire businessman, the chairman and majority owner of the Slovak real estate development company HB Reavis. In March 2017, with an estimate net worth of US$1.1 billion, Chrenko became the first ever Slovak billionaire, according to \"Forbes\". Prior to Chrenko, Andrej Babiš became the first person of Slovak origin with a net worth above $1 billion, but he later became a citizen of the Czech Republic.\n\nIvan Chrenko was the co-owner of HB Reavis together with Slovak multi-millionaire Viliam Pančík, and was its CEO from 1994 to October 2013.\n\nIvan Chrenko was born in Šaľa, Czechoslovakia. He started his first business in the mid-1990s together with his partner Viliam Pančík, specializing in audio equipment and electrical engineering. They entered the company AB Reavis in 1994, one year after its foundation. AB Reavis was specialized in real estate development in Bratislava. In 2003, AB Reavis changed its name to MPT Immo.\n\nChrenko experienced his first major success with the development of the Aupark shopping malls in various cities in Slovakia and Czech Republic.\n\nChrenko lives in Bratislava, Slovakia. Chrenko does not communicate with the media and there is no published interview with Chrenko. Only two known photographs of Chrenko exist.\n\n"}
{"id": "38243563", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38243563", "title": "Jan Didriksen", "text": "Jan Didriksen\n\nJan Didriksen (15 May 1917 – 14 December 1996) was a Norwegian jurist and businessperson.\n\nHe was born in Sarpsborg. During World War II he was a local Milorg leader and was arrested in July 1942, and incarcerated at Grini and later in Sachsenhausen. \n\nHe served as Chief executive of the Federation of Norwegian Industries from 1965 to 1982. In 1987 he published the book \"Industrien under hakekorset\", on the role of the Norwegian industry during the occupation of Norway by Nazi Germany.\n"}
{"id": "29590988", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29590988", "title": "Jim Christensen", "text": "Jim Christensen\n\nJames (Jim) Christensen is an economist, investor and mathematician who is currently the managing director for Global Multi-Asset at Queensland Investment Corporation. He is the former Chief Investment Officer of Telstra Super which is Australia's largest corporate superannuation fund. He has over 20 years of experience and has been widely successful in the Australian investment industry. James is heavily quoted on his economic viewpoints in various Australian and international media, and presents at numerous functions.\n\nJim began his career working in Queensland Treasury before moving on to the Queensland Investment Corporation (QIC). He spent over 10 years at the QIC managing some of the $54 billion the organisation was then responsible for. At this company Jim was given the position of Managing Director of the Active Management Division as well as chairing the alpha investment committee. Ultimately, this meant Jim was responsible for determining and implementing investment strategies across all portfolios.\n\nJim was appointed to the role of Chief Investment Officer at Telstra Super in 2009 on 16 December, succeeding Steve Merlicek. He managed over $15 billion for the company. The company is the largest corporate pension fund in Australia, with over 100,000 members.\n\nOn 24 November 2015 Jim officially resigned from Telstra Super to return QIC, this time as Managing Director for Global Multi Asset. Jim will now be responsible for asset allocation and active management at the $74.6 Billion fund. QIC is, as of Jim's appointment, the second largest investment fund in the country. In taking the position Jim has taken over from the departing CIO Adriaan Ryder who left after 7 years with the company.\n\nOver his career Jim has been featured in a number of live, televised and written pieces of media. His economic opinions have been recorded in leading magazines, journals and newspapers. These articles most commonly depict investment strategies with a particular focus on corporate asset management. As a speaker Jim has presented at public functions around the world including conferences with the Centre for Investor Education (CIE) and the Fund Executives Association Ltd (FEAL). In addition to this he is often shown in online investor education videos.\n\nThe returns of his funds investments are also heavily highlighted and scrutinised across Australian media. For the most part funds under his control are usually industry leaders. In 2015 Jim was listed as a nominee for the prestigious Conexus Financial Superannuation CIO of the Year award. He proceeded to win the Award, edging out his competitors at the gala event. In addition to this award he went on to win CIO of the year at the Rainmaker awards in the same year.\n\nIt was reported that James was the fifth highest paid Investment Officer in the Super Industry for 2015; the highest of any corporate fund. That same year it was also shown, to some controversy, that Jim earns over $500, 000 more than the CEO of Telstra Super.\n\nJames grew up in Childers, Queensland in Australia. After completing high school in Gin Gin, Queensland he went on to study at the prestigious University of Queensland. He holds a Bachelor of Science (BSc), Bachelor of Economics (BEc) and Master of Economics (MEc).\n"}
{"id": "1094183", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1094183", "title": "John Kotter", "text": "John Kotter\n\nJohn Paul Kotter is the Konosuke Matsushita Professor of Leadership, Emeritus, at the Harvard Business School, a New York Times best-selling author, and the founder of Kotter International (a management consulting firm based in Seattle and Boston). He is a well-known thought leader in the fields of business, leadership, and change.\n\nKotter graduated from the Massachusetts Institute of Technology with a Bachelor of Science in electrical engineering in 1968 and a Master of Science in Management in 1970. Kotter then completed his Doctor of Business Administration in 1972 at Harvard Business School. Kotter is an alumnus of the Sigma Phi Epsilon fraternity.\n\nIn 1972, the same year he completed his doctorate, Kotter joined the Harvard Business School faculty. He received tenure and a full professorship in 1981. He was later named the Konosuke Matsushita Professor of Leadership. Kotter retired as a full-time faculty member from Harvard in 2001.\n\nIn 2008, he co-founded Kotter International with two others, where he currently serves as Chairman. The business consultancy firm applies Kotter's research on leadership, strategy execution, transformation, and any form of large-scale change.\n\nSince early in his career, Kotter has received numerous awards for his thought leadership in his field from \"Harvard Business Review\", \"Bloomberg BusinessWeek\", Thinkers50, Global Gurus and others.\n\nKotter is the author of 20 books, 12 of which have been business bestsellers and two of which are overall New York Times bestsellers.\n\nHis international bestseller \"Leading Change \"(1996), \"is considered by many to be the seminal work in the field of change management.\" William C. Finnie, Editor-in-Chief of Strategy & Leadership described it as \"simply the best single work I have seen on strategy implementation\". The book outlines a practical 8-step process for change management :\n\nIn 2011, TIME magazine listed \"Leading Change\" as one of the \"Top 25 Most Influential Business Management Books\" of all time.\n\nIn 2006, Kotter co-wrote \"Our Iceberg is Melting\" with Holger Rathgeber where those same 8 steps were expanded into an allegory about penguins. In the book, a group of penguins whose iceberg is melting must change in order to survive while their iceberg home melts.\n\nMore recently, Kotter released \"Buy In\" (2010), \"A Sense of Urgency\" (2008) and \"Accelerate\" (2014).\n\nHis educational articles in the \"Harvard Business Review\" magazine continue to be among the magazine's top sellers. His \"Harvard Business Review\" article \"Accelerate!\", where he outlines a new type of business structure, won the 2012 McKinsey Award, recognizing it as the most significant article published in the magazine that year.\n\nKotter lives in Cambridge, Massachusetts and Ashland, New Hampshire, with his wife, Nancy Dearman. They have two children.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "25495921", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25495921", "title": "Joshua Bell (shoe manufacturer)", "text": "Joshua Bell (shoe manufacturer)\n\nJoshua Bell (c. 1812 - 24 December 1863) was born in Ireland and immigrated to Canada with his brother and father somewhere between 1815 and 1825.\n\nThe father, Alexander, was a shoemaker and the family became successful in that business. After the father's death, the two brothers expanded the business with Joshua taking the lead role. By his death, their company, J. and T. Bell was one of the larger footwear factories in Montreal. In the 1861, it had 70 employees.\n\nJoshua was important to the economic history of the time in that he was a pioneer of mechanization of shoe production in Canada.\n\n\"Papiers de Ludger Duvernay,\" \"Canadian Antiquarian and Numismatic Journal\" (Montreal), 3rd ser., VI (1909), 127–28\n"}
{"id": "40790538", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40790538", "title": "Julius Beer", "text": "Julius Beer\n\nJulius Beer (1836–1880) was a German-born English businessman, banker and newspaper baron. He owned \"The Observer\" from 1870 to 1880.\n\nJulius Beer was born in 1836 in Frankfurt, Germany.\n\nHe made his fortune in the London Stock Exchange. He was a member of the London Banking Association.\n\nIn 1870, he purchased \"The Observer\" newspaper, which he owned until his death in 1880.\n\nHe was married to Thyrza Beer (died 1881). They had a son and a daughter:\n\nHe died in 1880. His mausoleum has been listed as Grade II since 14 May 1974. It was designed by English architect John Oldrid Scott (1841–1913).\n\nBuried inside Julius Beer Mausoleum in Highgate Cemetery:\n"}
{"id": "4548966", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4548966", "title": "KPMG tax shelter fraud", "text": "KPMG tax shelter fraud\n\nThe KPMG tax shelter fraud scandal involves allegedly illegal U.S. tax shelters by KPMG that were exposed beginning in 2003. In early 2005, the United States member firm of KPMG International, KPMG LLP, was accused by the United States Department of Justice of fraud in marketing abusive tax shelters.\n\nUnder a deferred prosecution agreement, KPMG LLP admitted criminal wrongdoing in creating fraudulent tax shelters to help wealthy clients dodge $2.5 billion in taxes and agreed to pay $456 million in penalties. KPMG LLP will not face criminal prosecution as long as it complies with the terms of its agreement with the government. On January 3, 2007, the criminal conspiracy charges against KPMG were dropped. However, Federal Attorney Michael J. Garcia stated that the charges could be reinstated if KPMG does not continue to submit to continued monitorship through September 2008.\n\nOn 29 August 2005, nine individuals, including six former KPMG partners and the former deputy chairman of the firm, were criminally indicted in relation to the multibillion-dollar criminal tax fraud conspiracy. The nine individuals named in the indictment were:\n\nOn 17 October 2005, another ten individuals were indicted on criminal conspiracy and tax evasion charges:\n\nThe four tax shelters at issue were known as BLIPS, or bond linked issue premium structure; Flips, or foreign leveraged investment program; OPIS, or offshore portfolio investment strategy and a variant of Flips; and SOS, or short option strategies.\n\nIn August 2005, former official of the German bank Bayerische Hypo-Und Vereinsbank AG (HVB) Domenick DeGiorgio, who worked with KPMG to sell the shelters, pleaded guilty to tax evasion and fraud charges. On 15 February 2006, HVB admitted to criminal wrongdoing for its participation in the KPMG tax shelter fraud. The prosecution against the company was deferred by agreement with the U.S. Attorney. Under its deferred prosecution agreement, the company will pay $29.6 million in fines, restitution and penalties.\n\nOn 10 March 2006, U.S. District Judge Lewis A. Kaplan released former KPMG accounting executive David Greenberg on $25 million bail. Kaplan's ruling reversed his previous denial of bail to Greenberg. Judge Kaplan ordered Greenberg to live in Manhattan under electronic monitoring until his trial for tax fraud begins, and warned his family that they would be financially ruined if Greenberg attempted to flee the country. Kaplan also said that Greenberg's finances were in such disarray that it was impossible to figure out where his assets were and how much he was worth. Called a flight risk by federal prosecutors, Greenberg was the only defendant to be arrested by authorities when the indictments were handed down in October 2005.\n\nOn 28 March 2006, David Rivkin pleaded guilty to charges of conspiracy and tax evasion in U.S. District Court in Manhattan. \"I knew that the losses should not have been claimed on the tax forms,\" Rivkin told Judge Kaplan. Rivkin admitted that he conspired with others between January 1999 and May 2004 to prepare and execute false documents so that clients could file false tax returns. He also admitted that he took steps to conceal the existence of fraudulent tax shelters from the Internal Revenue Service and avoided registering the shelters with the IRS by claiming attorney-client privileges. Rivkin signed an agreement to cooperate with prosecutors, who could then ask the judge to consider giving Rivkin a more lenient sentence rather than the years he might face in prison. Sentencing was set for Feb. 9, 2007.\n\nOn 27 June 2006, Judge Kaplan ruled that by threatening KPMG with indictment unless the firm reneged on its policy of paying the defense costs of partners who were indicted for work performed in the course of the firm's tax shelter business, the Department of Justice violated the constitutional rights of employees. In his opinion, Judge Kaplan agreed with the defendants' contention that KPMG was improperly pressured not to pay their legal expenses, \"because the government held the proverbial gun to its head.\"\n\nIn the meantime, related rulings were handed down in a civil case that had been brought against the Internal Revenue Service in late 2004 by two Texas lawyers, Harold W. Nix and C. Cary Patterson. Nix and Patterson sued the IRS for refunds after the tax agency denied each of their claims for nearly $67 million in deductions stemming from their use of the BLIPS tax shelter in 2000. Their lawsuit was thought to be relevant to the KPMG tax shelter fraud case, because BLIPS is one of the tax shelters alleged to be abusive by the prosecution in that matter. On 20 July 2006, Judge T. John Ward of United States District Court for the Eastern District of Texas ruled that the use of BLIPS by Nix and Patterson was essentially legitimate, because the I.R.S.'s application of tougher Treasury Department rules in 2003 to liabilities that occurred in BLIPS was \"ineffective\" and \"not enforceable\" because it was retroactive. The Internal Revenue Code generally prohibits retroactive regulations. In response to this ruling, prosecutors in the KPMG case have indicated that they will argue that the BLIPS shelter itself was technically valid, but that the way the defendants carried it out was fraudulent. In turn, lawyers for the defendants argue that no court of law has ever ruled that the tax shelters in question were illegal. And in February 2007, Judge Ward essentially reversed himself and ruled the tax shelter consisted of fake bank loans and therefore illegitimate, despite his previous ruling identified in the link above.\n\nOn 8 February 2007, Deutsche Bank reached a settlement with hundreds of investors to whom it sold aggressive U.S. tax shelters similar to those attacked by prosecution in the KPMG tax fraud case. This settlement came a year after US DOJ prosecutors in Manhattan announced their investigation of Deutsche Bank's role in questionable tax shelters.\n\nOn 23 May 2007, the Second Circuit dismissed a complaint against accounting firm KPMG to recover fees and expenses arising from criminal tax fraud charges involving former KPMG partners and employees. The court held that the district court, which presides over the criminal case, erred in extending \"ancillary\" jurisdiction to the civil dispute between the defendants and non-party KPMG. Treating KPMG's appeal as a petition for writ of mandamus, the court issued the writ, vacated the district court's orders, and dismissed the civil complaint.\n\nOn 17 July 2007, Judge Kaplan dismissed charges against 13 former KPMG employees, ruling that he had no alternative because the government had strong-armed KPMG into not paying the legal fees of defendants and had violated their rights. \"This indictment charges serious crimes. They should have been decided on the merits as to every defendant,\" Kaplan wrote. \"But there are limits on the permissible actions of even the best prosecutors.\" Barring KPMG from paying its former employees' legal bills \"foreclosed these defendants from presenting the defenses they wished to present, and, in some cases, even deprived them of the counsel of their choice. This is intolerable in a society that holds itself out to the world as a paragon of justice,\" Kaplan wrote in his ruling. Kaplan's decision did not affect the prosecution of R.J. Ruble, a former law partner at Sidley Austin LLP, and three former KPMG partners, including David Greenberg, who worked in the firm's Orange County office and released KPMG from any obligation to him when he left its employ. John Larson and Robert Pfaff, the other two former partners still facing charges, left KPMG eight years before the criminal action was filed and did not initially seek to have the accounting firm pay their legal bills.\n\nOn 20 August 2007, the prosecutors announced that one of the aiders and abetters of tax fraud, David Amir Makov, agreed to plead guilty and cooperate with prosecution of his former colleagues. In the preceding week, the federal court in Manhattan received $150,000 from Mr. Makov as part of a bail modification agreement that allows him to travel to Israel. Because Makov never worked for KPMG, he was unaffected by Judge Kaplan's dismissal of charges against 13 of his codefendants.\n\nOn 10 September 2007, Makov entered a guilty plea to one information count of conspiracy. He agreed to pay a $10 million penalty and provided new details on those involved. Makov gave a brief explanation on the workings of BLIPS, or Bond Linked Issue Premium Structure, which he said he helped create. In previous hearings, Judge Kaplan had chastised prosecutors for failing to explain clearly how BLIPS worked. According to Makov's testimony, the BLIPS shelters were created to generate artificial losses that were then used by wealthy investors to offset gains in legitimate income. The shelter involved a purported investment component as well as banks, extending purported loans to investors. According to prosecutors, BLIPS were marketed and sold around 1999 and 2000 to at least 186 wealthy investors and generated at least $5.1 billion in phony tax losses. The Presidio entities that Makov formed, owned, and operated with co-defendants Robert Pfaff and John Larson, both former KPMG employees, made at least $134 million selling BLIPS. The IRS regards a tax shelter as abusive if it has no legitimate business purpose or genuine economic substance, in contrast to real loans, with money at risk, or real investments. According to Makov, although BLIPS were created on paper to look like seven-year investments, they involved neither real loans nor real investment components. \"There was no economic substance,\" Makov testified. \"Instead, we created the appearance of economic substance, rather than the reality.\" Makov claimed that although he initially thought that BLIPS were legitimate, \"as part of the deception\" he was eventually \"asked by representatives of Bank A,\" among others, \"to come up with an investment rationale.\" He added that he was \"clearly told by Bank A, KPMG\" and others \"that the loan was not at risk.\" According to \"The New York Times\", people close to the case have identified \"Bank A\" as Deutsche Bank AG. The bank has not been charged, but is expected to reach a settlement with the government. A graduate of the Harvard Business School and a one-time employee of Long-Term Capital Management, prior to founding Presidio around 1999, Makov worked at Deutsche Morgan Grenfell, an investment banking arm of Deutsche Bank AG. Makov was originally charged with dozens of counts of fraud, tax evasion and conspiracy, with each count carrying five years in jail. Prosecutors are expected to drop all of the other charges if he cooperates throughout the trial.\n\nJury selection for the KPMG tax shelter fraud trial began on 9 October 2007. However, on 18 October 2007, Judge Kaplan postponed indefinitely the trial set to begin in five days, discharging jurors he had already selected to hear the case, and removing Steven Bauer of Latham & Watkins, a lawyer for former KPMG executive John Larson. The government had previously asked the judge to decide whether Bauer should be removed because he worked as a lawyer for Makov and may have a conflict of interest. Larson had declined to waive his right to have an attorney free of conflicting interests. Kaplan ruled to disqualify Bauer as trial counsel for Larson, and pledged to address the issue of whether Latham & Watkins should also be disqualified if Larson seeks to be represented by another lawyer at that firm.\n\nOn 28 August 2008, the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit upheld the dismissal of criminal charges against 13 former executives at KPMG. The Court held that the government prosecutors \"unjustifiably interfered with defendants' relationship with counsel and their ability to mount a defense, in violation of the Sixth Amendment...\" by pressuring KPMG to refrain from paying their legal fees. Separately on the same day, Deputy U.S. Attorney General Mark Filip announced new prosecution rules aimed at not penalizing companies as noncooperative for protecting attorney-client material or paying for their employees' attorneys in probes. \"No corporation is obligated to cooperate or to seek cooperation credit by disclosing information to the government,\" Filip said at a press conference at the New York Stock Exchange. \"Refusal by a corporation to cooperate, just like refusal by an individual to cooperate, is not evidence of guilt.\"\n\nOn 15 October 2008, opening arguments began in the trial of David Greenberg and Robert Pfaff, former KPMG tax partners; John Larson, former KPMG senior tax manager; and Raymond Ruble, former partner at law firm Sidley Austin. The four defendants are charged with conspiring to evade taxes for more than 600 clients in a case that was touted as the largest criminal tax prosecution when it started in 2005 with 19 defendants, but is being tried on a much smaller scale. Assistant U.S. attorney John Hillebrecht told the jury in Manhattan federal court that the four men lied and cheated \"by making the tax bills of some of our nation's richest citizens disappear.\" In turn, Larson's defense lawyer, Thomas Hagemann, stated that his client believed in good faith that what he did was allowed under the law, openly conducted his dealings, and acted with \"good faith disclosure\". Hagemann called David Makov, a former colleague of Larson, turned one of the government's main witnesses, \"a liar and perjurer\". The trial is expected to last three to four months.\n\nOn 24 November 2008, two of the remaining four defendants, former KPMG tax partner Robert Pfaff and former senior tax manager John Larson, filed a motion to dismiss the charges against them or declare a mistrial. The motion said that during the trial prosecutors elicited testimony from a witness accusing Pfaff and Larson of concealing information from KPMG and its tax department to obtain KPMG approval for BLIPS, thus transforming a tax fraud conspiracy with KPMG against the IRS into an honest services fraud conspiracy against KPMG. The motion said the defense had received no notice of such a change in the prosecution's theory and could not prepare a defense and so sought to have the judge to dismiss the indictment or grant a mistrial. The motion claimed that the government's alleged deceitful procurement of KPMG's confidential tax returns through a parallel civil tax fraud investigation by the DOJ was a violation of due process. The defendants relied on three cases where district courts dismissed indictments or suppressed evidence \"where the Government has brought a civil action solely to obtain evidence for its criminal prosecution, or has failed to advise the defendant in its civil proceeding that it contemplates his criminal prosecution.\" (Two of these cases were later reversed on appeal.) The prosecution responded that the government has always alleged, and still contends, that KPMG as an entity was a conspirator, not a victim of any kind of fraud. \"That for a period of time there was an effort to keep certain facts from certain individual KPMG employees is of no moment whatever,\" the government said. Judge Kaplan rejected the motion, finding that neither of the circumstances invoked by the defendants applied to their case: \"Defendants do not deny that there was a bona fide civil investigation, they complain merely that there was a criminal investigation as well. And defendants, who were not the targets of the civil investigation, do not claim to have been deceived by the government.\" In a footnote, the court notes that the defendants relied in part on the fact that four of the now dismissed defendants had given deposition testimony while unaware of the criminal investigation. Judge Kaplan added that they \"do not suggest that the government deceived these individuals,\" suggesting perhaps that if the government had engaged in some deceptive conduct, the defendants' motion might have had more traction.\n\n1 December 2008 marked the expiration of the deadline for the federal prosecutors to seek certiorari by asking the United States Supreme Court to reconsider the 28 August 2008 2nd Circuit appeals court's decision that upheld the 17 July 2007 ruling by Judge Kaplan in the Southern District Court of New York, dismissing criminal charges against 13 of the 19 original defendants.\n\nFrom 8 to 10 December 2008, the jury heard closing arguments in the KPMG tax shelter case. Raymond Ruble's lawyer Jack S. Hoffinger told jurors that it was impossible to conclude that the defendants purposefully tried to break the law in helping at least 600 wealthy people trim their taxes, since they did not try to hide what they were doing from the Internal Revenue Service or others. \"What do we have, a massive suicide pact?\" he asked. He said that the defendants would not have designed something criminal and then \"put it out there so that the IRS will see it, the government will see it and we will end up in court charged with a crime.\" Assistant U.S. Attorney Margaret Garnett retorted that the defendants created tax shelters that were actually shams meant to appear to be legitimate investments: \"These defendants sold these so-called investments for years and years and not a single one of these defendants' clients ever made a dime of profit.\" She said that the only purpose of the fraudulent tax shelters marketed from 1997 until 2000 was to \"generate artificial tax losses to evade millions and millions of taxes.\" She speculated that the defendants may have had a false sense of safety from the law, and claimed that \"their greed and ambition overcame their sense of right and wrong.\"\n\nOn 18 December 2008, lawyer Raymond Ruble, who once was a partner at Brown & Wood, was convicted on 10 counts of tax evasion while investment consultants Robert Pfaff and John Larson were convicted on 12 counts. They were acquitted of conspiracy. David Greenberg, deemed by the prosecution an \"ongoing danger to the community\" and a flight risk, was acquitted of all charges. Greenberg was jailed for five months and required to wear electronic monitoring for two and a half years afterward. His acquittal came as a result of Steve Acosta, a key government witness, being \"utterly incapable of giving a straight answer on cross examination\", as conceded by Assistant U.S. Attorney John Hillebrecht in closing arguments. Acosta has pleaded guilty to conspiracy and tax evasion in a cooperation deal aimed at leniency at sentencing, a possibility the government said was now in jeopardy. Without leniency, he could face three years in prison. Judge Kaplan ordered that electronic monitoring begin for Pfaff at his Golden, Colo., home and for Larson at his New York City home, though the judge said he would reassess the need at a bail hearing next month, especially after what happened with Greenberg. Six people, including former KPMG tax partner David Rivkin; David Amir Makov, a one-time currency and fixed-income derivatives trader at Presidio; and Domenick DeGiorgio, a former managing director at German bank HVB, or Bayerische Hypo & Vereinsbank, have pleaded guilty to criminal charges in the matter.\n\nSome of KPMG's tax shelter clients are now suing KPMG for the liability exposure.\n\nSpecific references:\nGeneral references:\n\nMedia coverage\n\nU.S. Senate Permanent Subcommittee on Investigations Tax Shelter Hearing\n\nUS Department of Justice Information on KPMG Partner Tax Shelter Indictments and KPMG Deferred Prosecution\n"}
{"id": "53997913", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53997913", "title": "Khaltmaagiin Battulga", "text": "Khaltmaagiin Battulga\n\nBattulga Khaltmaa (, \"Khaltmaagiin Battulga\", , born 3 March 1963) is a Mongolian politician who has served as the President of Mongolia since 10 July 2017. He served as Member of the State Great Khural from 2004 to 2016 and Minister of Roads, Transportation, Construction and Urban Development from 2008 to 2012. He was the Democratic Party's candidate in the 2017 presidential election, and was elected President with 50.6% in the run-off, the first ever run-off election in modern Mongolian history.\n\nBattulga is a second child. His father and mother are both from Ulaanbaatar. The family was allocated a traditional “ger” in Yarmag ger district in Ulaanbaatar after they lost everything in the flood of Tuul River in 1966. Hence, Battulga grew up in the streets of Yarmag and went to a local secondary school. When he graduated from 8th grade, his teacher recommended that he apply to an arts school given his talents. Battulga graduated in 1982. While studying at the Arts School, Battulga sold his paintings to tourists around Bayangol Hotel area, learning sufficient English to help sell his artwork.\n\nHis father was a coach of Mongolian traditional wrestling and thus Battulga grew up wrestling. Battulga was a member of the Mongolian National wrestling team in 1979-1990. Battulga won the world cup championship in Ulaanbaatar in 1989. Wrestling allowed Battulga to travel internationally at a period, when travel abroad for Mongolians was not allowed. Battulga was awarded an Merited Sportsmen of Mongolia in 1995, thereafter being selected as the Chairman of Mongolian Judo Federation in 2006. Under Battulga’s leadership at the Judo Federation, Mongolian judokas became Olympic Champions for the first time in history.\n\nIn 1990, Battulga started sewing and selling jeans locally and in Hungary. This allowed him to make $600, sufficient to buy a video camera and to start an export-import business trading electronics from Singapore to Mongolia, Russia and Eastern Europe.\n\nBattulga, like many others of his generation was fascinated with \"The Godfather\" movie. Thus, he named his first company Genco. This nickname has stuck with him ever since.\n\nGenco acquired controlling interests during the privatization of state-owned assets such as Bayangol Hotel and meat-processing factory Makh-Impex in 1997 and 1999 respectively. In the 1990s Genco group started one of the first taxi businesses in Mongolia called City Taxi, retail store operations under Sapporo name, lottery business, restaurant and night club operations, flour milling and bread making factory Talkh Chikher LLC.\n\nIn 2004, Battulga became a Member of Parliament for the first time from Bayankhongor province. He was re-elected to parliament in 2008 and 2012.\n\nBattulga believes that every Mongolian citizen should benefit from its mineral wealth according to article 6.1 of the Constitution of Mongolia, under which mineral resources are to be developed in consideration of ensuring the nation's economic security and the development of all forms of property and social development of the population. Due to landlocked geography of Mongolia, Battulga views that a unified railway network would enhance the global competitiveness of its national mining industry by creating multiple access points through which the country can target multiple inland and seaborne markets. Furthermore, Battulga believes, given the cyclical nature of commodity markets, industrial clusters designed to do value-add processing of mineral products should be established to create skilled jobs, introduce downstream industrial technologies and diversify the economy, enhancing local purchasing power that would create economic multiplier effect in housing, services and other economic sectors. Battulga thinks that agriculture has a prominent place in diversifying the economy as Mongolia is rich in livestock, about 60 million, with largest consumers of agricultural products as its neighbors. He believes cashmere and leather products could be successfully marketed internationally because of the scarcity factor.\n\nRecognizing these principles, Battulga sponsored the State Policy of Railway Transportation of Mongolia (“Railway Policy”) with the Parliament approving it with 84% votes in 24 June 2010 to construct 5,600 km railway base infrastructure in three phases that calls for providing access to multiple seaports in China and Russia, creating three transportation corridors between China, Russia and Europe, as well as establishing and industrial cluster in Sainshand.\n\nBattulga acknowledges that limited human resources and financial capability of Mongolia requires multilateral international participation in the development of the economy, rather than making bilateral arrangement with its neighbors. Battulga strongly opposes control of mineral resources by a few politically connected businessmen reaping of great profits and increase income gap between the rich and the poor, potentially creating political and social instability in the country. For example, as the Minister responsible for development of infrastructure and industrial projects, Battulga encouraged participation of international companies in the development of business cases, feasibility and necessary detailed engineering studies, resulting in selection of Bechtel Enterprises, BNP Paribas, Deutsche Bank, Guggenheim, Fluor, McKinsey & Company, Nippon Koei, Pillsbury Winthrop Pittman Shaw LLP, Samsung, Sidley Austin LLP, Taylor Wessing. As a result, many international companies have expressed their interest to invest, provide technologies and construction services, such as Air Liquide (France), Baotou Steel (China), Dandong Port (China), Overseas Infrastructure Alliance (India), OAO Russian Railways (Russia), Rao UES (Russia), Sembcorp (Singapore), Sinohydro (China), Steel Authority of India Limited (India), among many others.\n\nOn 3 November 2012, the Government of Mongolia announced that it resolved to build 1,800 km railway infrastructure integrating Phase 1 and 2 of the Railway Policy. Stakeholders such as Hong Kong listed Mongolian Mining Corporation greeted such government policy in its press release stating that the policy is particularly beneficial for Mongolian coal exporters.\n\nBattulga was instrumental in background coordination for preparation work and ultimate signing of a Memorandum of Cooperation between Governments of Mongolia and Japan during official visit of Prime Minister Shinzo Abe in 22 October 2015. This memorandum expresses intention of Japan to invest in the construction of railway infrastructure from Tavan Tolgoi coal mine to Sainshand railway line connecting it to the Trans-Mongolian Railway Network and providing access to Chinese and Russian seaports. Furthermore, plans have been made for Chinese, Russian and Japanese investments in financing the railway in exchange of coking coal sourcing from Mongolia. Investment blueprint and roadmap was agreed with the Japanese government, Japan Bank for International Cooperation and Japanese major trading companies.\n\nBattulga believes foreign direct investment on balanced terms is an important catalyzer for Mongolia’s economic development and job creation. His policies has been aimed at enhancing fair, transparent and reciprocal trade.\n\nBattulga criticizes Mongolian economy’s heavy dependence on a single trade partner, thus faces fierce opposition and attacks from shareholders and stakeholders of coal miners.\n\nBattulga sponsored construction of Chingis Khan Equestrian Statue near Ulaanbaatar to celebrate national pride. The statue became one of the main tourist attraction sights.\n\nBattulga is also the President of Mongolian Judo Association. Under his guidance, Mongolian judoka Tuvshinbayar Naidan became an Olympic Judo Champion in Beijing 2008 and many other successful judokas that have become national heroes. Thanks to these successes judo has become one of the most popular sports in Mongolia.\n"}
{"id": "24131587", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24131587", "title": "Klaus Schnellenkamp", "text": "Klaus Schnellenkamp\n\nKlaus Schnellenkamp (born 24 December 1972 in Colonia Dignidad, Chile) is an established Chilean author. He gained worldwide fame after his spectacular escape from Colonia Dignidad to Germany in December 2005. His book in German \"Geboren im Schatten der Angst; Ich überlebte die Colonia Dignidad. (Born in the shadow of fear; I survived Colonia Dignidad)\" is a not just a dramatic account of his life within Colonia Dignidad and his struggle to survive but also shows the human nature's reaction and astounding creativity when faced with such inhumane and desperate situations.\n\nKlaus Schnellenkamp parents's Kurt Schnellenkamp Nelaimischkies (14 March 1927 - 26 November 2017) and Elisabeth Witthahn Krüger (31 May 1936 - 23 July 2009) were co-founders of Colonia Dignidad. In 1961 they followed the sect leader Paul Schäfer to Chile in order to found and built up the colony.\n\nSchnellenkamp attended the German private school within Colonia Dignidad from 1980 to 1990, where he got the highest grades. Contrary to the official regulations, he studied natural and social sciences, in cooperation with the alliance known as AAG (a German-Chilean spin-off of the HIAG), sponsored by the circle ChilAlRotary. This, in combination with his secretly written poems and ballads, led to repeated punishment and social isolation within the community.\n\nAfter graduation Schnellenkamp became active in the business management of the sect. In spite of his very rebellious position towards the sect leadership, Schnellenkamp managed to develop and strengthen his position within Colonia Dignidad. From this position he was able to get a good insight into the intrigues of the group, which presented itself to the outside world as a charitable community. Due to his public criticism of the economic criminal activity of the sect, Klaus Schnellenkamp became a victim of several murder attempts.\n\nTwo years after the escape of the sect leader Paul Schäfer, Schnellenkamp acquired his still missing official Chilean higher education entrance qualification and subsequently passed the state university entrance examination. Afterwards he qualified as a polyglot graduate in managerial economics and industrial management.\n\nSince December, 2005 Klaus Schnellenkamp has been living in Munich, Germany. His autobiography, \"Geboren im Schatten der Angst (Born in the Shadow of the Fear)\", appeared in spring 2007 and has attracted the attention of both the German and Chilean public. Since May 2008, he has been working as an independent entrepreneur in Munich.\n\nKlaus Schnellenkamp: Geboren im Schatten der Angst: Ich überlebte die Colonia Dignidad. Herbig, München 2007, .\n\n"}
{"id": "31730934", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31730934", "title": "Look-through company", "text": "Look-through company\n\nA Look-Through Company (LTC) is a kind of tax structure for New Zealand companies with limited liability, which allows the company in question to transfer its income and expenditure to its shareholders directly. The LTC has replaced the previously popular Loss Attributing Qualifying Company and will be a simpler alternative to Limited Partnership; however, this new structure differs in a number of key areas.\n\nIn May 2010, as part of the 2010 New Zealand budget, Loss Attributing Qualifying Companies (LAQCs) were abolished.\nLAQCs had been popular among property investors. Community Investors anxiously awaited the appearance of any alternative. In December 2010, new legislation was introduced which approved a new type of companies—or rather, a new kind of taxation structure for companies in the vein of the old LAQCs. These were to be called Look-Through Companies. The draft law was published yet on 15 October 2010, and successfully passed one and a half months later. This latest LTC legislation went into effect on 1 April 2011\n\nA Look-Through Company is the same as the traditional limited liability company, established in accordance with the New Zealand Companies Act of 1993; However, the laws differ regarding the taxation of the company's income. An LTC is unlike a typical company in that the income and expenditure of the company are expressly in the hands of the shareholders. In fiscal terms, this creates a transparent mechanism that is identical to the New Zealand limited partnership. In notable contrast to the former rules regarding LAQCs, LTC shareholders have an obligation to pay taxes on the profit of the company personally, as well as being able to claim losses generated by the company against their other income for tax purposes.\n\n\nTo obtain the status of the LTC, a company must meet the following criteria:\n\n\nIncome from LTCs is taxed after deducting the expenses of the company. The share of these revenues and expenses is transferred to shareholders according to their share in the company. Earnings from the company are taxed at the personal tax rate, even if it is more or less than the standard income tax rate for New Zealand companies. This is a significant point of difference with the LAQC. The rule limits the amount of damages similar to those that apply to limited liability companies. Owners can take into account only the economically justified costs. Losses that can not be claimed in the current period can be extended to subsequent years (periods), but only within the amount of participation of the shareholder. LTCs deliver declarations showing the distribution of income and expenses to shareholders.\n\nUnlike with LAQCs, with this kind of tax structure shareholders can claim damages only on a scale proportionate to that individual's share in the company. However, losses in both types of companies may be carried over to subsequent periods: if the amount of damages the company passed to a shareholder who exceeds the amount of participation in the company, this difference carries over to next year. Shareholders of now-defunct LAQCs may elect to conduct a transition into an LTC. \n\nUnlike a limited partnership (LP), all shareholders have equal rights, but their number is limited to five. Also, in partnership, general financial entities may also participate, while in LTC stockholders may only be natural persons or administering trusts. The general principles of LPs and LTCs are similar in the sense that the costs and revenues of both entities are transferred to shareholders. Nevertheless, the Limited Partnership has more complex tax rules and reporting, and there is no possibility to transfer losses to future periods.\n\n"}
{"id": "43016848", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43016848", "title": "Ludwig Prandtl Ring", "text": "Ludwig Prandtl Ring\n\nThe Ludwig Prandtl Ring is the highest award of the Deutsche Gesellschaft für Luft- und Raumfahrt (German Society for Aeronautics and Astronautics), awarded \"for outstanding contribution in the field of aerospace engineering.\" The award is named in honour of Ludwig Prandtl.\n\n"}
{"id": "12725985", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12725985", "title": "Macromarketing", "text": "Macromarketing\n\nMacromarketing is an interdisciplinary field that studies marketing and how societies make business decisions. It focuses on overall consumer behavior, market regulation, and social responsibility. By comparison, \"micromarketing\" deals with how firms decide what to make, how to market it, and how much to price it. Topics include the tragedy of the commons, subliminal advertising, and environmental sustainability.\n\nThe term \"macromarketing\" was first used in 1962 by Robert Bartels in \"The Development of Marketing Thought\", in which he \"forecast future marketing developments, such as increasing conceptualization, more comparative study, more interdisciplinary research, and a 'new concept of macro-marketing'\". Fifteen years later, he and Jenkins published their seminal 1977 article in the \"Journal of Marketing\", where they wrote:\n\nMacromarketing has meant the marketing process in its entirety, and the aggregate mechanism of institutions performing it. It has meant systems and groups of micro institutions, such as channels, conglomerates, industries, and associations, in contrast to their individual component units. More recently, it has meant the social context of micromarketing, its role in the national economy, and its application to the marketing of noneconomic goods.\n\nThe article won the \"Journal of Marketing\"'s Harold H. Maynard Award for its \"contribution to marketing thought and theory\".\n\nThe Macromarketing Society, \"an international group of scholars\" that studies \"matters related to the varied interactions among markets, marketing, and society\", was founded in the 1970s. In 1976, Charles Slater organized the first Macro-Marketing Seminar at the University of Colorado at Boulder, which was followed by subsequent seminars from 1977 to 1979. In 1978, the Macro-Marketing Editorial Advisory Board was formed to come up with a policy for the \"Journal of Macromarketing\". On August 9, 1979, the Advisory Board met again in Boulder, Colorado, and the Macromarketing Society came to be.\n\nMacromarketing models are normative constructs, and the discipline that reflects society's value judgments and takes a stance on \"how the general marketing process should be conducted in the best interests of society\". Some scholars argued that \"improving our knowledge of marketing\" was a sort of \"social process of resource mobilization that, among other things, focuses on an understanding of processes of social learning, adoption, and innovation\". In fact, some scholars worried that it was falling out of the spotlight, perhaps because the field was seen as \"the conscience of marketing practice\", which was less appealing in an academia that values \"objectivity and scientific enquiry\". macromarketing focused on \n\nMacromarketing may be a fairly recent term, but the ideas and interests that it comprises have existed as long as human history. For example, \"History of the Peloponnesian War\" by Thucydides, the Magna Carta, and \"The Travels of Marco Polo\" are works that embody macromarketing themes. Macromarketing practice moreover is perhaps as old as society itself. Societies emerged for the welfare of the group; the need for specialization and then exchanges of items produced by specialists surely was evident early on. Greater specialization and support for it begat trade, and eventually markets—which linked many systems in any given society, from production to consumption—were an efficient mechanism to sustain a society, which, fundamentally is a series of institutions and systems agreed upon by the members of the group. For example, even ancient markets like the agora in Athens or a bazaar in Mesopotamia would have been built on systemic organization and coordination, bringing people together.\n\nModern macromarketing literature on contemporary society may discuss topics like subliminal advertising, environmentally friendly packaging, and transgender consumers. Articles in the \"Journal of Macromarketing\" were about marketing ethics, how American muslims use social media to connect with verified halal markets, destination marketing and place branding in gastronomy, and how U.S. nonprofits are addressing the \"wicked problem\" of gun violence through macro-social marketing.</ref>\n\nThe Macromarketing Society has held an Annual Macromarketing Conference since 1976 and has published the quarterly \"Journal of Macromarketing\" since 1981. It also liaises with organizations, governments, universities, and nonprofits that share an interest in macromarketing.\n\nThe Society is based on five pillars that \"deeply matter\" and affect everyone around the world:\n"}
{"id": "40876992", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40876992", "title": "Margaret Hunt Hill", "text": "Margaret Hunt Hill\n\nMargaret Hunt Hill (1915–2007) was an American heiress and philanthropist.\n\nOn October 19, 1915, Hill was born as Margaret Hunt in Lake Village, Arkansas. Hill's father was H. L. Hunt (1889–1974) and her mother was Lyda Bunker (1889-1955). Hill had six siblings: Caroline Rose Hunt (1923–2018), H. L. Hunt III (1917–2005), Lyda Bunker Hunt (born and died in 1925), Nelson Bunker Hunt (1926–2014), William Herbert Hunt (1929), and Lamar Hunt (1932–2006).\n\nHill grew up in El Dorado, Arkansas and Tyler, Texas, and moved to Dallas, Texas in 1938.\n\nHill graduated from Mary Baldwin College, a private women's college in Staunton, Virginia.\n\nShe worked as an assistant for her father, until she got married.\n\nTogether with her husband, she built two luxury resorts in Colorado Springs, Colorado: the Garden of the Gods Club and the Kissing Camels Club. She also landscaped the Falcon Stadium of the United States Air Force Academy in 1962.\n\nShe served as a Treasurer of the Dallas Junior League, President of the Dallas Women's Club, as well as Chairman of the Dallas Easter Seals and the Dallas Society for Crippled Children.\n\nShe founded the Dallas County Heritage Society, where she served as a Director throughout her life. She also served as Vice President of the Dallas Historical Society. From 1981 to 1987, she served on the Governor's Texas Historical Society, and from 1981 to 1988, as a Treasurer of the Friends of the Governor's Mansion. Together with Van Cliburn (1934–2013), she served as co-Chairman of the 60th Anniversary of the Discovery of the East Texas Oil Field. The ceremony was held at the East Texas Oil Field Museum, which she helped create.\n\nShe sat on the Board of Directors of the Garden Club of America. Moreover, she founded the Kissing Camels Garden Club and served as President of the Junior League Garden Club and the Founders Garden Club.\n\nAdditionally, she founded the Dallas Cotillion, an annual debutante ball in Dallas. She also served as the Queen of the Texas Rose Festival in Tyler, Texas in 1935.\n\nIn 1991, together with her sister Caroline, she paid for the restoration of Hilltop, an 1810 building on the campus of Mary Baldwin College which is listed on the National Register of Historic Places.\n\nShe was a recipient of the 1990 Flora Award, the Zone IX Creative Leadership Award from the Garden Club of America, the National Philanthropy Award from the Susan G. Komen for the Cure in 1996, the Award for Excellence from the Dallas Historical Society in 1999, the Gertrude Shelburne Award from Planned Parenthood, the Family of the Year Award from the YWCA in 2000, and an honorary degree from her alma mater, Mary Baldwin College.\n\nHill was married to Albert Galatyn Hill Sr. (1904–1988). They had three children:\n\nHill died on June 14, 2007 in Dallas, Texas. She was 91. \nHill's funeral service was held at the Highland Park Presbyterian Church in Dallas, Texas.\n\nThe Margaret Hunt Hill Bridge in Dallas, designed by Santiago Calatrava, is named in her honor.\n"}
{"id": "33213142", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33213142", "title": "Marshall J. Beverley", "text": "Marshall J. Beverley\n\nMarshall Jones Beverley (August 26, 1911 – June 14, 2000) was a banker and Mayor of Alexandria, Virginia in the 1950s.\n\nBeverley was born August 26, 1911, in Alexandria, Virginia. The son of Richard H. Carter Beverley, Sr. and Elizabeth Winter Jones, Beverley was a cousin of long-time Virginia Senator Harry F. Byrd, Sr.. He was a banker with the Washington, DC-based Riggs National Bank from 1929 to 1935 and then joined Alexandria's Burke and Herbert Bank.\n\nBeverley entered the military in 1938 as a member of the U.S. Naval Reserve and was commissioned an officer in the U.S. Navy on Dec. 10, 1941. A veteran of World War II, he left the service with the rank of lieutenant commander.\n\nIn 1947, Beverley married Janet deNeale English; they had four children: Janet deNeale Beverley, Barbara Beverley, Marshall J. Beverley, Jr. and Richard Byrd Beverley.\n\nBeverley was elected a member of the Alexandria City Council in 1949 and was elected mayor as a Democrat from 1951 - 1955.\n\nHe was named to the Board of Visitors of Mount Vernon in 1964 and served on the board until 1995.\n\nBeverley served as a federal bank examiner for the Federal Reserve Bank and later retired as Senior Vice President of United Virginia Bank in 1976. The Beverleys retired to Berkeley County, West Virginia and he died in Martinsburg, West Virginia in 2000.\n"}
{"id": "57385343", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57385343", "title": "Micha Lakin Avni", "text": "Micha Lakin Avni\n\nMicah Lakin Avni (born June 13, 1969) is an Israeli businessman, attorney and a human rights and anti-terrorism activist.\n\nAvni is the founder and CEO of Peninsula group, between 2000-2004 he was a managing partner at Jerusalem Global Ventures (JGV), a venture capital fund known for its investments in software, telecommunications, and life sciences-related start ups. He previously worked as part of the Hi-Tech Practice Group at Yigal Arnon & Co. He was one of the team that founded Deltathree.com. Avni also serves as the chairman of Concert – Together for Israel (previously, Kela Shlomo Ltd.), a public-private partnership whose aim is to combat the deligitimization of the State of Israel. \n\nAvni's family moved to Israel from Connecticut in the United States in 1984. His father, Richard Lakin, was a civil rights advocate and school principal in Waterbury, Connecticut before the family moved to Israel. He was one of the Freedom Riders who marched with the Rev. Martin Luther King Jr.. After moving to Israel, Lakin taught English to mixed classes of Arabs and Jews. Avni's mother is Karen Lakin.\n\nAvni chose to Hebraize his surname. Avni studied at the American School in Kfar Shmaryahu and later served in the IDF as a combat soldier and commander in the Golani Brigade. After his military service, he received his LL.B. from the Hebrew University in Jerusalem where he studied from 1992-1995. A few years later, between 2002-2004, Avni continued his studies and completed his MBA in a joint program between Tel Aviv University and the Kellogg School of Business at Northwestern University in Chicago (Kellogg-Recanati Program). \n\nAvni is married to Rita Avni, founder and CEO of one of Israel’s leading forensic accountant firms, Avni Advisory Services. Together they are parents to two daughters as well as two sons from previous marriages. The family lives in Tel Aviv.\n\nAvni is a member of the Israeli Bar Association since 1996, the same year he began working as an attorney at Yigal Arnon & Co. From 2000-2004, he became a General Partner at Jerusalem Global Ventures, an Israel-based venture capital fund. As of 2018, Avni is a member on the board of directors at Charge After. He previously served as a director at Kashya (acquired by EMC) and the advisory board of Fundbox. He also serves as Chairman of the Association of Credit Companies in Israel.\n\nIn 2004, Avni founded a private company named Peninsula and serves as its CEO. Peninsula provides credit to growing small and medium-sized Israeli businesses that advance Israeli industries. The company’s shares are divided between the investment firm Meitav Dash (52%), Micah Lakin Avni (16.35%), Migdal Insurance Company Ltd. (8.66%) and the public. In December 2014, Peninsula began to be traded on the Tel Aviv Stock Exchange . Peninsula is rated “A” by S&P Maalot. \n\nPeninsula expanded and also established investment private equity fund. In December 2015, the company won a bid of ILS 450 million to the Ministry of Economy for the establishment and management of an investment fund for long-term growth of medium-sized businesses . In August 2017, another fund was launched called “The Peninsula Fund for 100+ Businesses” scaled at about ILS 200 million .\n\nIn September 2012, Avni wrote an article published in the “Calcalist” journal which discussed limiting the use of cash. This prompted a discussion that appointed the “Locker Committee” to reduce the use of cash . The committee’s conclusions turned into a bill which was adopted into law by the Israeli parliament in 2018 and will go into effect at the beginning of 2019.\n\nIn each of the years 2015, 2016 and 2018 Avni was elected to the list of The Marker’s 100 Most Influential People in Israel following his involvement in opening the credit market to free competition.\n\nAvni's father, Richard Lakin, a retired elementary school principal and a peace activist, was stabbed in the face and chest and shot in the head by Palestinian attackers while riding the #78 bus in Jerusalem during the wave of Palestinian terrorism in October, 2015.\n\nAfter his father’s death, Avni published an opinion piece in The New York Times in November 2015 that raised public debate on the issue of social media incitement. Due to the increased amount of activities related to the subject, Avni established a movement against incitement on social media titled “Stop Incitement” , and initiated “Lakin’s Law” at the same year. The law proposes regulation of Facebook in Israel in cases of posts that encourage incitement. Avni gave two speeches at the United Nations and interviewed on CNN about it as well as met with the US Vice President Joe Biden and Secretary-General of the United Nations Ban Ki-moon.\n\nIn March, 2016, Avni spoke for the first time before the United Nations Human Rights Council in Geneva, urging them, and United Nations Secretary General Ban Ki-moon to condemn the murder of a civilian on a bus in Israel as an act of terrorism, calling the failure of the United Nations and the Secretary-General to do so an act of \"hypocrisy.\"\n\n“Killing civilians on a bus is terror. I challenge you to specifically condemn the murder of my father, Richard Lakin”, Avni stated when appearing before the UN and Secretary General Ban Ki-Moon, who visited following the murder in Armon Hanatziv. His second appearance occurred on 09.12.2016 when a closed discussion was held on the cessation of incitement that encourages terrorist activity . Avni said: “extreme terrorist organizations use social networks to incite and encourage young people around the world to join them”, calling the phenomenon, “open source jihad.” He said social media networks incited Baha ‘Alian, his father’s murderer, who was later described as a shahid on Facebook. Avni called on the UN “to condemn the Chairman of the Palestinian Authority and the Palestinian Authority for creating a culture of hatred and an ecosystem of incitement to terror, and demand that the Chairman of the Palestinian Authority and the Palestinian Authority stop poisoning the minds of innocent Palestinian children against peace.”\n\nIn the wake of his father's murder, Avni became a lead plaintiff in the Shurat HaDin#2015 Facebook lawsuit filed in a New York state court by 2,000 Israeli victims of Palestinian terror attack against Facebook on the grounds that the social media company permitted the posting of \"incitement to murder and the glorification of violence against innocent civilians.\" His father's murderer, Bahas Alian, had announced his planned attack in advance on Facebook.\n\nIn total, Avni filed two civil suits against Facebook. One of the suits totaled one billion dollars. At 2017 Avni was involved in efforts to expose the phenomenon of videos on YouTube that encourage terrorism and are funded by advertisements of international corporations. Following investigation and publication on the topic by the British Times, there has been a decrease in the number of videos on social media networks that encourage incitement, violence, and racism as well as the removal of Hamas and its leaders’ social media accounts .\n\nIn March 2018 Avni appeared again in front of the UN Human Rights Council where he said: “The Palestinian Authority actually has a pay-to-play law. Palestinians systematically pay terrorists to murder Jews\". Members of this council, what if I were to pay 300 million dollars to have all of your fathers butchered, would you report on that?”\n\nAs of January 2018, Avni also serves as the Chairman of Concert – Together for Israel (previously known as “Kela Shlomo,” a public-private partnership established to combat the delegitimization of the State of Israel and the BDS movement .\n"}
{"id": "24499859", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24499859", "title": "Motorsport industry", "text": "Motorsport industry\n\nThe motorsport industry is the range of engineering and service businesses that support the sporting discipline of motorsports.\n\nIn motorsports, a competitors' success is intimately linked with the performance of his or her equipment - in this case a vehicle. The role of engineering in delivering on-track success has led to the formation of a considerable global industry which supplies motorsport competitors with the equipment necessary to participate in the sport.\n\nThe motorsport industry designs, develops and manufactures prototypes including chassis, materials, electronics, engines, transmissions, brakes, telemetry and suspension components. The industry relies upon the skills of competitive engineers who, season after season, incrementally improve components to deliver identifiable advantage and ongoing success on the race track. \"Competitive Engineering\" is the centerpiece of these internationally-trading small businesses. Motorsport businesses have developed a unique ability to use sporting endeavour and entertainment as a catalyst for engineering and manufacturing advances - advances subsequently of real value to other High Performance Engineering (HPE) customer groups – Defence, Marine, Aerospace and Automotive.\n\nThe Motorsport Industry Association (MIA) is the world's leading trade association for the motorsport, performance engineering, services and tuning sectors. The MIA represents the specialised needs of this highly successful global industry as it undergoes continuing rapid development throughout the world.\n\nIn April 1994, leading personalities in British motorsport joined forces to form their own trade association - the MIA - with the aim of promoting one of the UK's most successful industries - motorsport. The original concept was proposed by Founder and original CEO, Brian Sims, with the first Executive Committee comprising Rob Baldock (Accenture); Dick Scammel (Cosworth);Tony Schulp (Haymarket); John Kirkpatrick (Jim Russell Racing Drivers School); Tony Panaro (Euro Northern Travel) and Tony Fletcher (Premier Fuels).\n\nThe MIA represents its members from motorsport, high performance engineering and tuning companies; race and rally teams; governing bodies; motorsport services; research organisations; race circuits; Universities and colleges - amongst many others. The MIA enjoys membership of the Confederation of British Industry (CBI), in turn providing members access to the UK's “Voice of Industry”.\n"}
{"id": "236591", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=236591", "title": "Nielsen ratings", "text": "Nielsen ratings\n\nNielsen ratings are the audience measurement systems operated by Nielsen Media Research that seek to determine the audience size and composition of television programming in the United States using a rating system.\n\nNielsen Media Research was founded by Arthur C. Nielsen, a market analyst whose career had begun in the 1920s with brand advertising analysis and had expanded into radio market analysis during the 1930s, culminating in Nielsen ratings of radio programming, which was meant to provide statistics as to the markets of radio shows. The first Nielsen ratings for radio programs were released the first week of December 1947. They measured the top 20 programs in four areas: total audience, average audience, cumulative audience and homes per dollar spent for time and talent.\n\nIn 1950, Nielsen moved to television, developing a ratings system using the methods he and his company had developed for radio. That method became the primary source of audience measurement information in the television industry.\n\nNielsen television ratings are gathered in one of two ways:\n\nChanging systems of viewing have impacted Nielsen's methods of market research. In 2005, Nielsen began measuring the usage of digital video recording devices such as TiVos. Initial results indicated that time-shifted viewing will have a significant impact on television ratings. A year later, the networks were not yet figuring these new results into their ad rates because of the resistance of advertisers.\n\nSince about October 2017, Nielsen has also begun to track select programs from specific partners that air on subscription-based video on demand (SVOD) services like Netflix. Partnering distributors insert a \"tag\" into the program to be distributed on these services which Nielsen can track without input from Netflix. Partnering distributors are able to determine if these ratings can be released publicly or not.\n\nThe most commonly cited Nielsen results are reported in two measurements: ratings points and share, usually reported as: \"ratings points/share.\" There are 119.6 million TV homes in the U.S. for the 2017-18 TV season (Nielsen’s National Television Household Universe Estimates). The number of persons age 2 and older in U.S. TV Households is estimated to be 304.5 million. A single national ratings point represents 1% of the total number. Nielsen re-estimates the number of television-equipped households each August for the upcoming television season.\n\nShare is the percentage of television sets in use that are tuned to the program of Households Using Television (HUT) or Persons Using Television (PUT) who are tuned to a specific program, station or network in a specific area at a specific time. For example, Nielsen may report a show as receiving a 4.4/8 during its broadcast; this would mean that out of all television-equipped households (that is to say homes with a TV set, not total number of people), 4.4% were tuned in to that program, while among those households watching TV at the time 8% of them watched.\n\nBecause ratings are based on samples, it is possible for shows to get a 0.0 rating, despite having an audience; the CNBC talk show \"McEnroe\" was one notable example. Another example is The CW show, \"CW Now\", which received two 0.0 ratings in the same season. In 2014, Nielsen reported that American viewership of live television (totaling on average four hours and 32 minutes per day) had dropped 12 minutes per day compared to the year before. Nielsen reported several reasons for the shift away from live television: increased viewership of time-shifted television (mainly through DVRs) and viewership of internet video (clips from video sharing websites and streams of full-length television shows).\n\nNielsen Media Research also provides statistics on specific demographics as advertising rates are influenced by such factors as age, gender, race, economic class, and area. Younger viewers are considered more attractive for many products, whereas in some cases older and wealthier audiences are desired, or female audiences are desired over males.\n\nIn general, the number of viewers within the 18–49 age range is more important than the total number of viewers. According to \"Advertising Age\", during the 2007–08 season, ABC was able to charge $419,000 per commercial sold during its medical drama \"Grey's Anatomy\", compared to only $248,000 for a commercial during CBS' \"\", despite \"CSI\" having almost five million more viewers on average. Because of its strength in young \"demos\" (demographic groups), NBC was able to charge almost three times as much for a commercial during \"Friends\" as CBS charged for \"Murder, She Wrote\", even though the two series had a similar amount of total viewership during the two seasons they were on the air concurrently. \"Glee\" (on Fox) and \"The Office\" (on NBC) drew fewer total viewers than \"NCIS\" (on CBS) during the 2009–10 season, but earned an average of $272,694 and $213,617 respectively, compared to $150,708 for \"NCIS\".\n\nNielsen also provides viewership data calculated as the average viewership for only the commercial time within the program. These \"Commercial Ratings\" first became available on May 31, 2007. Additionally, Nielsen provides different \"streams\" of this data in order to take into consideration delayed viewing (DVR) data, at any interval up to seven days. C3 was the metric launched in 2007, and refers to the ratings for average commercial minutes in live programming plus total playback by digital video recorder out to three days after. By the end of 2012, some television executives wanted to see C7, ratings for live plus seven days, with CBS Corporation chief executive officer Les Moonves making the claim C7 made ratings increase by 30%.\n\nThe American television measurement by Nielsen is based on three different methodological approaches. In the 25 TV markets with the highest sales (e. g. New York, Los Angeles, Chicago, Denver) the Local People Meter (LPM) is measured. Individuals register individually, the measurement is carried out on 365 days over 24 hours. The SET Meter (Diary & Electronic) is used in 31 smaller markets (such as Nashville, Salt Lake City). In four sweeps in the months of February, May, July and November, target group data are collected with the diary and validated with the data of the devices (TV set on/off) in the participating households. In the 154 TV markets with the lowest sales (e. g. Harrisburg, PA or Honolulu) the use of TV is only recorded by means of a diary survey.\n\nEach year, Nielsen processes approximately two million paper diaries from households across the country, for the months of November, February, May and July—also known as the \"sweeps\" rating periods. The term \"sweeps\" dates from 1954, when Nielsen collected diaries from households in the Eastern United States first; from there they would \"sweep\" west. Seven-day diaries (or eight-day diaries in homes with DVRs) are mailed to homes to keep a tally of what is watched on each television set and by whom. Over the course of a sweeps period, diaries are mailed to a new panel of homes each week. At the end of the month, all of the viewing data from the individual weeks is aggregated.\n\nThis local viewing information provides a basis for program scheduling and advertising decisions for local television stations, cable systems, and advertisers. Typically, the November, February and May sweeps are considered more important; nevertheless, the July sweeps can have local impact in regard to personnel.\n\nIn some of the mid-size markets, diaries provide viewer information for up to two additional \"sweeps\" months (October and January).\n\nThere is some public critique regarding accuracy and potential bias within Nielsen's rating system, including some concerns that the Nielsen ratings system is rapidly becoming outdated because of new technology like smartphones, DVRs, tablet computers and Internet streaming services as preferred or alternative methods for television viewing. In June 2006, however, Nielsen announced a plan to revamp its entire methodology to include all types of media viewing in its sample.\n\nSince viewers are aware of being part of the Nielsen sample, it can lead to response bias in recording and viewing habits. Audience counts gathered by the self-reporting diary methodology are sometimes higher than those gathered by the electronic meters which eliminate any response bias.\n\nAnother criticism of the measuring system itself is that it fails the most important criterion of a sample: it is not random in the statistical sense of the word. A small fraction of the population is selected and only those that actually accept are used as the sample size. In many local areas during the 1990s, the difference between a rating that kept a show on the air and one that would cancel it was so small as to be statistically insignificant, and yet the show that just happened to get the higher rating would survive. In addition, the Nielsen ratings encouraged a strong push for demographic measurements. This caused problems with households that had multiple television sets or households where viewers would enter the simpler codes (usually their child's) raising serious questions to the quality of the demographic data. The situation further deteriorated as the popularity of cable television expanded the number of viewable networks to the point that the margin of error has increased, because the sampling sizes are too small. Compounding matters is the fact that of the sample data that is collected, advertisers will not pay for time shifted programs (those that are recorded for replay at a different time), rendering the \"raw\" numbers useless from a statistical point of view. Even in 2013, it was noted that Internet streams of television programs were still not counted because they had either no ads (such as Netflix) or totally different advertising (such as Hulu) than their television counterparts, effectively skewing the raw data on how popular a show really is.\n\nA related criticism of the Nielsen ratings system is its lack of a system for measuring television audiences in environments outside the home, such as college dormitories, transport terminals, bars, jails and other public places where television is frequently viewed, often by large numbers of people in a common setting. In 2005, Nielsen announced plans to incorporate viewing by away-from-home college students into its sample. Internet television viewing is another rapidly growing market for which Nielsen ratings fail to account for viewers. iTunes, Hulu, YouTube, and some of the networks' own websites (such as ABC.com and CBS.com) provide full-length web-based programming, either subscription-based or ad-supported. Though web sites can already track popularity of a site and the referring page, they cannot track viewer demographics. To both track this and expand their market research offerings, Nielsen purchased NetRatings in 2007. However, as noted in a February 2012 \"New York Times\" article, the computer and mobile streams of a program are counted separately from the standard television broadcasts, further degrading the overall quality of the sampling data. As a result, there was no way for NBC to tell if there was any overlap between the roughly 111.3 million traditional television viewers and 2.1 million live stream viewers of Super Bowl XLVII.\n\nResponding to the criticism regarding accusations by several media executives (including Viacom CEO Phillippe Dauman and former Fox Entertainment Group chief operating officer Chase Carey) that it failed to count viewers watching television programs on digital platforms, Nielsen executive vice president of global product leadership Megan Clarken stated in an April 2015 summit by the Coalition for Innovative Media Measurement that the company is able to count digital viewers in audience and demographic reports, but are unable to do so under the current set of rules devised by networks and advertising industries last revised in 2006. As such, Nielsen can only count viewership for television-originated broadcasts, and must exclude viewers who watch programs on digital platforms if the program does not have an identical advertising load or a linear watermark.\n\nAfter Nielsen took over the contract for producing data on Irish advertising in 2009, agencies said that they were \"disastrous\" and claimed that the information produced by them is too inaccurate to be trusted by them or their clients.\n\nIn 2004, News Corporation retained the services of public relations firm Glover Park to launch a campaign aimed at delaying Nielsen's plan to replace its aging household electronic data collection methodology in larger local markets with its newer electronic People Meter system. The advocates in the public relations campaign charged that data derived from the newer People Meter system represented a bias toward underreporting minority viewing, which could lead to a de facto discrimination in employment against minority actors and writers. However, Nielsen countered the campaign by revealing its sample composition counts. According to Nielsen Media Research's sample composition counts, , nationwide, African American households using People Meters represented 6.7% of the Nielsen sample, compared to 6.0% in the general population. Latino households represent 5.7% of the Nielsen sample, compared to 5.0% in the general population. By October 2006, News Corporation and Nielsen settled, with Nielsen agreeing to spend an additional $50 million to ensure that minority viewing was not being underreported by the new electronic people meter system.\n\nIn 2011, CBS and Nielsen proposed a model consisting of six viewer segments which according to their empirical research are more relevant for advertisers than older models based on gender and age. The segments are based on user behavior, motivations, and psychographics. It is argued that the model can increase reaching the desired audience as well as message recall and advertisement likeability.\n\nThe table below lists television shows in the U.S. with the highest average household Nielsen rating for each television season.\n\n"}
{"id": "12528045", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12528045", "title": "Olivier Lecerf", "text": "Olivier Lecerf\n\nOlivier Lecerf (1928 – August 10, 2006) was a French businessman and a Thoroughbred racehorse owner.\n\nA resident of Paris, from 1974 to 1989 Olivier Lecerf was at the helm of the French-based multinational industrial conglomerate Lafarge Group, serving as its CEO and Chairman of the Board of Directors.\n\nHe was voted France's 1981 \"Manager of the Year\" (\"\") by the French National Assembly.\n\nOlivier Lecerf was also a member of the European Round Table of Industrialists (ERT) and an administrator of the global cosmetics giant L'Oréal from 1990 to 2004.\n\nIn 1991 published Lecerf's book \"Au risque de gagner - Le métier de dirigeant\" (). The book contained his comments and views on being a company leader and the stakes and issues involved.\n\nAn owner-breeder of Thoroughbred racehorses, in 1986 Olivier Lecerf was chosen president of the \"Fédération nationale des sociétés de courses\".\n\nLecerf's greatest success in racing came with his colt Subotica, who won two of the French Classic Races when he captured the 1991 Grand Prix de Paris and the 1992 Prix de l'Arc de Triomphe.\n\nOlivier Lecerf died at age 77 in 2006.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "39205201", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39205201", "title": "Oloff Hennig", "text": "Oloff Hennig\n\nOloff Hennig is a South African businessman, best known for his friendship with Ronnie Biggs, the legendary British train robber. He was also embroiled in a tax and murder scandal following the death of his accountant.\n\nOloff is also reputed to have paved the way for South Africa’s rugby legend Naas Botha’s try-out as goal kicker for the Dallas Cowboys.\n\nHennig was embroiled in a tax and murder scandal when his accountant Marius van der Westhuizen was convicted of fraud. Van der Westhuizen was charged with filing false tax returns and fictitious figures on behalf of Oloff Hennig’s companies.\n\nVan der Westhuizen subsequently committed suicide before a sentencing for his crimes.\n\nOloff Hennig was also a close friend of legendary British train robber Ronnie Biggs. Oloff visited him many times whilst Biggs lived in exile in Rio de Janeiro. Oloff even arranged for South African tourists to meet Biggs in Rio, where he would tell them how his gang conducted the Great Train Robbery (1963), during which they stole £2.6 million.\n\nOloff is the father of Walter Hennig.\n"}
{"id": "26703974", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26703974", "title": "Oracle Policy Automation", "text": "Oracle Policy Automation\n\nOracle Policy Automation (abbreviated OPA) is a suite of software products for modeling and deploying business rules within enterprise applications. Oracle Corporation acquired OPA in December 2008 when it purchased Australian software company RuleBurst Holdings, then trading as Haley. Oracle Policy Automation was designed by RuleBurst to transform legislation and policy documents into executable business rules, particularly for the calculation of benefit entitlements and payment amounts. Although OPA was originally developed for and sold to the public sector, it can be used in other industries.\n\nOracle Policy Automation continues to be available as a standalone offering and an integrated rules solution for SAP and Siebel.\n\nOracle Policy Modeling is a Windows desktop application for transforming legislation and policy documents into executable business rules. Rules are written in Microsoft Word and Excel documents using phrases in languages such as English, Chinese and French. These rule documents can be shared amongst business and information technology stakeholders, and commentary can be added into the documents without affecting the structure of the rules themselves. Other features of Oracle Policy Modeling include integrated test case execution and debugging capabilities, and the definition of interviews for interactive rule-based assessments. Interview screen order and branching logic can be defined using visual flow diagrams.\n\nThe Oracle Policy Automation run-time comprises three technologies:\n\nBoth OPA Web Determinations and OPA Determinations Server are supported on a wide variety of application servers, including Oracle WebLogic Server, Microsoft IIS, IBM WebSphere AS and Apache Tomcat.\n\nConnectors for enterprise applications such as Oracle's Siebel and SAP are also available.\n\nThe product now known as Oracle Policy Automation has been sold under several different names, including Haley Office Rules and RuleBurst.\n\nRuleBurst 7.0 was the successor to STATUTE Expert. Although customers of STATUTE Expert were able to upgrade to the later versions, RuleBurst 7.0 was the first version of the product that has become known as Oracle Policy Automation today.\n\nOracle has released several versions of Oracle Policy Automation (OPA) since it was acquired:\n\nThe Oracle Policy Automation software has been publicly deployed within several government web-sites. Australia's Department of Immigration and Citizenship uses it for visitors to check their eligibility for visas. The UK Revenue and Customs agency uses it for their Employment Status Indicator assessment tool; the UK government's old online portal for businesses also used OPA for over 60 interactive tools, while the United States IRS uses the software for guidance on tax law.\n\nOracle Policy Modeling's controlled natural language approach to rule authoring has been the subject of some research. The product was also used to help establish the viability of the Legal Knowledge Interchange Format standard developed by the Estrella Project\n\nRuleBurst acquired the assets of Haley Systems in November 2007.\nAt the time, RuleBurst and Haley were both marketing \"natural language business rules\" software and were considered competitors. Prior to being acquired, Haley Systems had licensed its HaleyAuthority rules product to Siebel Systems. HaleyAuthority was made available in Siebel 8.0 under the name Siebel Business Rules. When RuleBurst acquired Haley, it adopted the better-known Haley name for both its company and product branding. HaleyAuthority then became known as Haley Expert Rules and the RuleBurst product became known as Haley Office Rules. When Oracle acquired RuleBurst, Oracle also began jointly marketing OPA with the Siebel CRM solution. The plurality of names has led some commentators to incorrectly refer to Oracle Policy Automation and Haley products interchangeably as Haley or Haley Rules. However, the two products are separate and distinct offerings.\n\n"}
{"id": "58652921", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58652921", "title": "Project diary", "text": "Project diary\n\nA project diary, history, journal or log is a record of a project which is compiled while it is being done.\n"}
{"id": "10812093", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10812093", "title": "Public consultation", "text": "Public consultation\n\nPublic consultation, or simply consultation, is a regulatory process by which the public's input on matters affecting them is sought. Its main goals are in improving the efficiency, transparency and public involvement in large-scale projects or laws and policies. It usually involves \"notification\" (to publicise the matter to be consulted on), \"consultation\" (a two-way flow of information and opinion exchange) as well as \"participation\" (involving interest groups in the drafting of policy or legislation). A frequently used tool for understanding different levels of community participation in consultation is known as Arnstein's ladder.\n\nThe process is typical of Commonwealth countries such as the United Kingdom, Canada, New Zealand or Australia, though most democratic countries have similar systems. In the United States, for example, this process is called \"public notice and comment\" (see Rulemaking). Some organisations such as the OECD also use such processes. In Canada, the word \"consultation\" has a special meaning among some First Nations Groups: \"it is the duty of the Crown and third parties to consult with First Nations who have asserted, but not proved, aboriginal rights or title.\"\n\nThere is great variation of public consultations. In some countries there is a list of all consultations, or consultations are mentioned in normal news feed. Depending on the country there can be national or regional public consultations.\n\nIneffective consultations are considered to be cosmetic consultations that were done due to obligation or show and not true participatory decision making.\n\n\nAustralian consultations\n\nCanadian consultations\n\nNew Zealand consultations\nUnited Kingdom consultations\n\nUSA / Federal level\n\nEuropean Commission / European Union level\n"}
{"id": "36719789", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36719789", "title": "Re Rizzo &amp; Rizzo Shoes Ltd", "text": "Re Rizzo &amp; Rizzo Shoes Ltd\n\nRe Rizzo & Rizzo Shoes Ltd is a 1998 judgment from the Supreme Court of Canada regarding the priority of employees interests when a company declares bankruptcy. The judgment hinged on the interpretation of the Employment Standards Act and has been taken to mark the Supreme Court of Canada's adoption of the purposive approach to legislative interpretation. It has since been frequently cited in subsequent decisions of Canadian courts, nearly every time legislation is interpreted.\n\nRizzo & Rizzo Shoes Ltd. filed for bankruptcy; employees subsequently lost their jobs. The company paid all wages, salaries, commissions, and vacation pay through termination. The Ministry of Labour for the Province of Ontario audited the company to ensure that no further payments were owed to former employees under the Employment Standards Act (ESA). Proof of claim was submitted to a trustee, who subsequently disallowed the claim. According to the trustee, a company's bankruptcy does not constitute dismissal from employment; thus, the former employees of Rizzo & Rizzo Shoes gained no positive right to severance, termination or vacation pay under the ESA.\n\nThe case went before the Ontario Court (General Division) where the judge agreed with the Ministry of Labour and allowed the former employees to be paid. However, the Ontario Court of Appeal overturned the ruling and restored the Trustee's decision. The Ministry sought leave to appeal from the Court of Appeal judgment but discontinued its application. Following the discontinuance of the appeal, the Trustee paid a dividend to Rizzo's creditors, thereby leaving significantly less funds in the estate. Subsequently, the appellants, five former employees of Rizzo, moved to set aside the discontinuance, add themselves as parties to the proceedings, and requested and were granted an order granting them leave to appeal.\n\nIn the unanimous decision, the Supreme Court allowed the employees' appeal holding that they were entitled to the payments. While the plain language of the Act seemed to suggest that termination pay and severance pay were payable only when the employer terminates the employment, the Court held that the words of an Act must be read in their entire context and in their grammatical and ordinary sense harmoniously with the scheme of the Act, the object of the Act, and the intention of Parliament.\n\nIacobucci J. wrote:\n\nElmer Driedger in Construction of Statutes (2nd ed. 1983) best encapsulates the approach upon which I prefer to rely. He recognizes that statutory interpretation cannot be founded on the wording of the legislation alone. At p. 87 he states\n\n\"Today there is only one principle or approach, namely, the words of an Act are to be read in their entire context and in their grammatical and ordinary sense harmoniously with the scheme of the Act, the object of the Act, and the intention of Parliament.\"\n\nThe Court of Appeal had failed to read the language of the Act in this broad manner the Supreme Court held. It noted that the purpose of the termination and severance pay provisions were to protect employees, to recognize their service and investment in the employer's enterprise and to cushion them against the adverse effects of economic dislocation. To hold that (more junior) employees terminated prior to bankruptcy would be entitled to termination and severance pay while (more senior) employees terminated upon bankruptcy would be absurd, the Court held:\n\nThe Court also held that the legislative history of the termination and severance pay provisions and the other provisions in the ESA supported an interpretation that such benefits were payable to employees whose employment is terminated upon bankruptcy. The Court also ordered the Ministry of Labour to pay the employees' costs, since it had not provided the Court with any evidence as to the effort it made to notify or secure the consent of the Rizzo employees before it discontinued its application for leave to appeal to this Court on their behalf.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "52221599", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52221599", "title": "Rubber Research Institute of Malaysia", "text": "Rubber Research Institute of Malaysia\n\nThe Rubber Research Institute of Malaysia (RRIM; ) is a research center for problems and matters pertaining to rubber and its industry in Malaysia.\n\nOn 29 June 1925, the bill to incorporate the Rubber Research Institute of Malaya was passed by the government. Dr G. Bryce was appointed the first Director of the institute on 26 September 1926. On 31 October 1926, its laboratory at Petaling Estate was closed down and from 1 November 1926, the institute took over the equipment of the Rubber Growers' Association. Also in 1926, the institute made a request to the government for the temporary laboratory building of the institute at Damansara Road in Selangor. The request was granted and the building was leased for five years. In 1936, the institute decided to relocate to a new building at Ampang Road. The building was officiated by Selangor Sultan Sulaiman on 22 April 1936 and the institute restarted its operation on 19 May 1937.\n\n"}
{"id": "2598883", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2598883", "title": "Shrewsbury Business Park", "text": "Shrewsbury Business Park\n\nThe Shrewsbury Business Park is a commercial development on the outskirts of Shrewsbury, Shropshire (at Emstrey). Construction commenced in late 2001 on the , £25 million site, and is still ongoing. Almost of business premises have been delivered, largely attributed to Phase One of the scheme. Over 1,000 people are based there. \n\nThe idea was first promoted by local developer the Alaska Group, which entered into a partnership with Shropshire County Council. Mainly offices, the business park includes a Holiday Inn Express Hotel and a children's daycare centre. Plans exist for a cafe retail unit at the heart of the development.\n\nAlaska Group was founded in London in 1994 in a former fur factory known as the Alaska Works, where skins were imported from Alaska. The company has no other connection with Alaska, however it gave the Park several quotes from that State. The main route through the Park, Sitka Drive, is named after the National tree of Alaska. Other names include Anchorage Avenue, Mt McKinley Building, Bering House and Juneau House.\n\nLocated around 3 miles / 5km south east of the town centre of Shrewsbury, Shropshire's county town, the business park lies on the junction of the A5 bypass and the B4380, near to Emstrey. The park's appeal is partly thanks to excellent transport links via the nearby M54 motorway to Telford, Wolverhampton and Birmingham, while being near to a fine medieval town and beautiful countryside. \n\nOther business park developments in and around the town include the Oxon Business Park to the West of the town centre and the Battlefield Enterprise Park to the North, and Abbey Lawn next to Shrewsbury Abbey, just across the Severn from the town centre.\n\nThe park's buildings are a combination of fully customised modern and traditional structures, all with dedicated parking.\n\nThe Creative Quarter is home to five offices, The Alaska Building (Pictured Right), Global House, Mercury House, Jupiter House and the Community Council Building\n\nMtech's office, seen bottom right, is typical of some of the smaller properties available on the development.\n\nThe Professional Quarter is of more traditional brick design and includes professional clients including Handelsbanken.\n\nWork started in 2008 on phase 2 of Shrewsbury Business Park after Alaska Group agreed a new Partnership with Shropshire Council, following the success of phase 1. Another 20,000 m² is planned and the first three buildings are now nearing completion. Deutsche Bank are the first occupiers of phase 2.\n\n"}
{"id": "44585779", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44585779", "title": "Small Business Health Care tax credit", "text": "Small Business Health Care tax credit\n\nThe Small Business Health Care tax credit is available to small employers who pay health insurance premiums on behalf of employees enrolled in a qualified health plan offered through a Small Business Health Options Program (SHOP) Marketplace. Employers who purchase health insurance through the program may get a tax credit of up to 50% of their premium contributions. However, to qualify for the tax credit, they must meet certain standards. Firstly, employers have fewer than 25 employees. Secondly, their employee salary must be less than an average of $50,000. Thirdly, employer must pay at least 50% of the full-time employee's premium costs. However, employers are not required to offer coverage to part-time employees (work fewer than 30 works/week) or dependents, or to seasonal workers who aren't considered full-time employees unless they work more than 120 days during the tax year. Lastly, the coverage to those full-employment must be offered through SHOP Marketplace. \n\nEmployers should apply to receive this tax credit on the annual business tax return The tax credit is highest in particularly for small companies with fewer than 10 employees, with an average annual salary of $25,000 or less. \n\nFor instance, if there are 10 employees with total wage of $250,000, employer will receive a tax credit amount of $35,000 as they contribute at least $70,000 to their premiums. \n"}
{"id": "55666404", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55666404", "title": "The Beacon (Cleveland)", "text": "The Beacon (Cleveland)\n\nThe Beacon is a skyscraper in downtown Cleveland that began construction at 515 Euclid Avenue in late 2017. The tower will be tall, with approval from the city council to exceed the city's limit. The building will be located on the GCRTA Euclid Corridor Rapid Bus Transit line that leads from Public Square to the University Circle district on the south east side of the city \n\nPart of the need for the tower is due to the two decade old resurgence of interest in downtown Cleveland. Residential population has upticked, spearheaded by a 77% increase of new housing units and 95% occupancy rate from 2000 to 2015 . This surge in residential growth has seen nearly 15,000 people living in the Cleveland neighborhood as of 2017. That makes downtown Cleveland the largest populated downtown in Ohio (far ahead of Columbus, Cincinnati, and Akron) which illustrates the need for more housing capacity in the central location of Cleveland. When completed it will be the third-tallest residential building in the city behind the Terminal Tower, which is slated to be converted into apartments, and The 9 Cleveland.\n\nThe tower will sit atop a seven-level parking garage that was built nearly ten years earlier for a project that never materialized. This will help keep additional infrastructure costs down. The winning design that was presented to the Cleveland City Council was by Cleveland architecture firm of Westlake Reed Leskosky and the Boston firm Nadaaa. The project will be completed by Stark Enterprises. \n\nThe Beacon will feature a facade interlocked with colored interchanging metal panels that will reflect the sun and be brightly illuminated with exterior lighting at night. The pinnacle will feature a multistory \"Beacon\" masthead that can be seen for miles in either direction. \n\nThe chosen site is notable because over ten years ago it was proposed that an apartment tower should sit on the lot behind the Huntington Building on East Roadway and Euclid. For various reasons, mostly due to financing and design flaws, that tower never rose. The Beacon will be the first new residential high rise erected in Cleveland's central business district since 1974. \n\n"}
{"id": "51358665", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51358665", "title": "Tsoltim Ngima Shakabpa", "text": "Tsoltim Ngima Shakabpa\n\nTsoltim Ngima Shakabpa (born 7 September 1943 in Lhasa) is a Tibetan banker, activist, writer and poet, one of the first to write in English, composing poems in this language in 1967. Son of the Tibetan Finance Minister Tsepon W. D. Shakabpa, he left Tibet in 1950 to study at St. Joseph's School, Darjeeling in India before working for the Tibetan government in exile and settle in the United States and was naturalized American.\n\nTsoltim Ngima Shakabpa is the youngest son of the Minister of Finance of the Tibetan Government in 1939-1950 Tsepon WD Shakabpa. He was educated in Tibet which he left in 1950, then in India at St. Joseph's College in Darjeeling and the United States.\n\nHe works for the Tibetan government in exile in India as CEO of the Tibetan Industrial Rehabilitation Society founded in October 1965 by the Government of India, the Tibetan exile government and foreign aid agencies, and rehabilitates 7000 Tibetan refugees in agribusiness camps in Himachal Pradesh.\n\nHe moved to Cranford, New Jersey in the United States where he is a naturalized US citizen and lives with his American wife. There he became an international banker for the Republic National Bank of New York where he was assistant vice president based in Hong Kong before being appointed Senior Vice President in 1985, and then President at Corpus Christi, Texas until he was diagnosed with a stomach cancer in 1993. He struggles and regain health through meditation and Western medicine. According to his doctors, any trace of cancer was gone. However, he was struck again by a stroke in 1999.\n\nDespite these setbacks, he became president of the Tibetan Association of Washington and founded the festival TibetFest in Seattle in the state of Washington.\n\nHe continues to write poetry and in 2002 published his first book in Catalan, \"Records d'un Tibetà\" at Pagès Editors (University of Lleida), a Spanish publishing house, then in English in 2003. In April 2002, he received the chief editor award for his achievements in poetry from the International Library of Poetry. While adopting a healthy attitude towards life, he continues to fight for the independence of Tibet, questioning the Tibetan autonomy requested by the Tibetan government in exile in China, which can not offer freedom as great as that enjoyed by the Tibetan refugees in the world today.\n\nIn 2007, he gets a prize of Saint Joseph's College in Darjeeling.\n\nIn 2011, he is among the Tibetan poets who participate to 100 Thousand Poets for Change.\n\nHe has a son, Wangchuk D. Shakabpa, and a daughter, Pema Yudon Shakabpa, and lives with his wife in California.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2042111", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2042111", "title": "Wilhelm Hasse", "text": "Wilhelm Hasse\n\nWilhelm Hasse was a German-born Mexican brewer and founder of Dos Equis.\n\nIn 1884 Wilhelm Hasse emigrated from his homeland and established the Moctezuma brewery in Veracruz, Mexico. In 1897, Hasse blended his brewing heritage with the spirit of Mexican tradition to create Dos Equis.\n"}
{"id": "22305399", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22305399", "title": "WirtschaftsBlatt", "text": "WirtschaftsBlatt\n\nWirtschaftsBlatt (meaning \"The Business Journal\" in English) was the only daily financial newspaper published in Vienna, the Republic of Austria. The newspaper appeared every trading day from Monday to Friday in German. It was in circulation between October 1995 and September 2016.\n\nFirst published in October 1995, \"WirtschaftsBlatt\" specialized in the areas of business, economic policy, markets, stock exchanges and investment. The newspaper was published by around 50 journalists and 30 production staff. On the paper's founding, Styria Multimedia AG and the Swedish media group Bonnier each owned 50% the paper and its online portal. In mid-2006 Styria purchased all of Bonnier's shares and became 100% owner of the newspaper. The publisher of the paper is Wirtschaftsblatt Verlag. The paper was a cooperative of the Austria Press Agency.\n\n\"WirtschaftsBlatt\" had its headquarters in Vienna. On 25 January 2007 the online version of the newspaper was launched. On 2 September 2016 the last issue of the paper appeared.\n\n\n\"WirtschaftsBlatt\" had a circulation of 53,000 copies in 2004. In 2009, according to Austrian Media Analysis (ÖWA), the newspaper was read by approximately 86,000 (on Fridays 117,000). The average circulation of the paper was 22,024 copies from Mondays to Fridays in 2010. The Austrian Circulation Control (ÖAK) reported that the paper had a circulation of 34,084 in the first half of 2011. Its average circulation was 27,000 copies in 2013.\n\nOn 25 January 2007, the newly designed online wirtschaftsblatt.at was launched. The contents of the portal was based on the WirtschaftsBlatt's line of business. According to Austrian Web Analysis (ÖWA), in 2009 www.wirtschaftsblatt.at had an annual average of 322,000 unique visitors, nearly a million visits and more than three million page views with an average duration of 5:49 minutes.\n"}
