{"id": "908752", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=908752", "title": "Alexis Bachelot", "text": "Alexis Bachelot\n\nAlexis Bachelot, SS.CC., (born Jean-Augustin Bachelot; February 22, 1796 – December 5, 1837) was a Roman Catholic priest best known for his tenure as the first Prefect Apostolic of the Sandwich Islands. In that role, he led the first permanent Catholic mission to the Kingdom of Hawaii. Bachelot was raised in France, where he attended the Irish College in Paris, and was ordained a priest in 1820. He led the first Catholic mission to Hawaii, arriving in 1827. Although he had expected the approval of then Hawaiian King Kamehameha II, he learned upon arrival that Kamehameha II had died and a new government that was hostile towards Catholic missionaries had been installed. Bachelot, however, was able to convert a small group of Hawaiians and quietly minister to them for four years before being deported in 1831 on the orders of Kaʻahumanu, the \"Kuhina Nui\" (a position similar to queen regent) of Hawaii.\n\nBachelot then traveled to California, where he served as an assistant minister while pastoring and teaching. In 1837, having learned of Queen Kaʻahumanu's death and King Kamehameha III's willingness to allow Catholic priests on the island, Bachelot returned to Hawaii, intending to continue his missionary work. However, by Bachelot's arrival, Kamehameha III had again changed his mind and Bachelot was removed from the island and confined to a ship for several months. He was freed only after the French and British navies imposed a naval blockade on the Honolulu harbor. Although he was later able to secure passage on a ship to Micronesia, he died en route and was buried on an islet near Pohnpei. His treatment in Hawaii prompted the government of France to dispatch a frigate to the island; the resulting intervention is known as the French Incident and led to the emancipation of Catholics in Hawaii.\n\nBachelot was born in Saint-Cyr-la-Rosière, Orne, France on February 22, 1796. In 1806, he left home for Paris, where he enrolled in the Preparatory Seminary of Picpus to pursue priesthood. In 1813, he professed at the Congregation of the Sacred Hearts of Jesus and Mary, taking the name Alexis. He studied at the Irish College in Paris before being ordained as a priest in 1820. As a priest, he initially served as the College's rector and later led the preparatory seminary at Tours.\n\nIn the early 1820s, Jean Baptiste Rives, a French adviser to the Hawaiian king Kamehameha II, traveled to Europe to attempt to convince European Catholics to organize a mission to Hawaii. Members of the Congregation of the Sacred Hearts of Jesus and Mary were receptive to his idea, and in 1825, Pope Leo XII assigned them the task of evangelizing Hawaii. Bachelot was appointed the Prefect Apostolic of the Sandwich Islands, and in this role led the first permanent mission to Hawaii.\n\nThe expedition was organized by the influential Monneron family and funded by the government of France. Bachelot was assisted in his new position by fellow priests Patrick Short and Abraham Armand, as well as several lay brothers. The mission sailed from Bordeaux on \"La Comète\" in November 1826. The missionaries were initially accompanied by a group that planned to explore commercial trading opportunities but returned to France after reaching Mexico.\n\nUnbeknownst to Bachelot, political changes occurred in Hawaii prior to the mission's arrival. King died in 1824 and his younger brother became king. Because was young at the time of his ascension, Queen Kaʻahumanu (their stepmother) ruled as \"Kuhina Nui\". On the advice of Hiram—a Protestant missionary who had converted the Hawaiian royalty four years previously—Queen Kaʻahumanu took a hard stance against Catholicism. Rives' influence on the Hawaiian government had faded, and he never returned to Hawaii.\n\n\"La Comète\" arrived in Honolulu on July 7, 1827. The priests were faced with a situation of dire poverty owing to the absence of Rives' patronage. Furthermore, they had promised \"La Comète's\" captain that Rives would pay for their passage after they arrived in Hawaii, but by the time of their arrival, Rives had already left. Queen Kaʻahumanu refused to allow the missionaries to stay, suspecting them to be covert agents of the government of France. She instructed \"La Comète's\" captain to take the mission with him when he departed. The captain, however, refused to do so because he did not receive payment for their passage, so the party was able to remain.\n\nThe priests began their missionary work, but encountered suspicion from most chiefs. The members of the party had great difficulty defending themselves, as none of them was fluent in English or Hawaiian. But, the group were favorably received by the high chief Boki, the royal governor of Oahu, and his wife Kuini Liliha. (The couple were Catholic converts and rivals of Queen Kaʻahumanu.) Boki welcomed the party and gave its members permission to stay.\n\nFor several months, Bachelot and his fellow missionaries lived in three small rented structures, saying their first mass on the island in a grass hut. They later built a chapel on a small plot of land they purchased, where the Cathedral of Our Lady of Peace was dedicated in 1843. After settling on the island, the group avoided drawing attention to themselves and studied the Hawaiian language. During their mission's first two years, the group converted 65 Hawaiians and ministered to Hawaiians who had already been converted. They often held surreptitious night-time meetings with converts who feared persecution. The priests' vestments and rituals made their evangelism efforts more effective because they reminded Hawaiians of native religious customs.\n\nBachelot introduced two plant species to Hawaii: \"Prosopis humilis\" and \"Bougainvillea\". \"Prosopis humilis\" trees later covered thousands of acres there. He had obtained the seeds, which were originally gathered by Catholic missionaries in California, from the Royal Conservatory in Paris. Bachelot translated a prayer book into Hawaiian (\"O Ke A'o Ana Kristiano\", \"Christian Doctrine\", c. 1831), authored a catechism in Hawaiian (\"He Ōlelo Ho'ona'auao\", \"A Word of Instruction\", 1831), and wrote an introduction to Hawaiian grammar in French (\"Notes Grammaticales\", \"Grammatical Notes\", 1834).\n\nBy 1827, Protestant Christianity, and in particular Bingham's teachings, had become the \"de facto\" state religion of the Kingdom of Hawaii. Queen Kaʻahumanu persecuted Catholics from 1829 until her death in 1832, by, for example, forbidding Hawaiians from attending masses and instructing Bachelot not to proselytize. In December 1831, Bachelot and Short were deported and forced to leave on a ship, the \"Waverly\", bound for North America. Though Queen Kaʻahumanu steadfastly opposed his work, Bachelot viewed her as a good person who had been deceived by Protestant missionaries.\n\nThe news of Bachelot and Short's expulsion caused controversy in the United States, where it was viewed as a violation of the rights appertaining to foreigners in the 1826 treaty signed by Commodore Thomas ap Catesby Jones of the United States Navy and King . U.S. Navy Commodore John Downes protested the expulsions while in discussion with chiefs during his 1832 visit to the kingdom.\n\nThe \"Waverly\" landed at a vacant area near San Pedro, Los Angeles, in January 1832. Bachelot and Short traveled to the Mission San Gabriel Arcángel, where they were welcomed by the Franciscans who staffed the mission. Bachelot later became the pastor of a church in Los Angeles, served as an assistant minister for the mission, and led the mission on an interim basis after its priest was reassigned in 1834. He also taught in Los Angeles schools during a teacher shortage. He ministered in California until 1837 and became popular with Angelenos.\n\nIn 1833, the Congregation for the Propagation of the Faith reorganized the jurisdiction of Oceania. Hawaii became part of the newly created Apostolic Vicariate of Eastern Oceania, which was split into northern and southern divisions. Bachelot remained as the Prefect Apostolic for the northern division. Etienne Jerome Rouchouze served as the Vicar Apostolic of Eastern Oceania and oversaw Bachelot's assignment in Hawaii.\n\nIn 1835 and 1836, two representatives of the Catholic Church traveled to Hawaii in an attempt to ascertain whether Bachelot could return. Queen Kaʻahumanu had died in 1832, and the following year King began making radical changes to Hawaiian law. Columban Murphy, a Catholic lay brother from the United Kingdom, visited King in 1835 and discussed the possibility of Bachelot's return. Finding King amenable to the idea, Murphy traveled to California to relay the news. He was unable, however, to locate Bachelot, who was absent from the area at the time. After Bachelot received Murphy's message, Bachelot and Short decided to return to Hawaii. The Ayuntamiento in Los Angeles, a municipal council, attempted to dissuade Bachelot and asked the Catholic leadership in Santa Barbara to prevent him from leaving, but he insisted on departing and the Catholic leadership did not prevent him.\n\nWhen Bachelot and Short arrived in Honolulu in May 1837, they spent only 13 days on the island. Notwithstanding the agreement he had signed with French Naval Captain Abel Aubert Dupetit Thouars that allowed French citizens to live on the island, King sought to deport the priests. Bachelot and Short were confined to the ship on which they had arrived, the \"Clémentine\", on . However, the \"Clémentine\"'s captain, Jules Dudoit, refused to transport them from Hawaii. Dudoit, a British citizen of French descent, met with Charlton, the British consul, and they publicly protested the priests' confinement. Their efforts to secure freedom for the priests to live on the island were unsuccessful until the British naval vessel HMS \"Sulphur\" and the French frigate the \"La Vénus\" arrived in Honolulu on . The ships were commanded respectively by Edward Belcher and Dupetit Thouars, who each tried to convince the authorities to allow the priests to return to the island. After negotiations proved futile, they blockaded the harbor, boarded the \"Clémentine\", and brought Bachelot and Short ashore. The \"La Vénus\" sent 300 sailors to escort them from the harbor to the French mission. King agreed to allow the priests to stay in Honolulu until they could find a ship to transport them elsewhere, under the condition that they refrain from proselytizing.\nThat year, Bachelot, who suffered from a form of rheumatism, became very sick. By November 1837, he had recovered sufficiently to leave Hawaii. He purchased a ship and sailed toward Micronesia, intending to work on a mission. Bachelot's health significantly worsened after leaving Hawaii and he died at sea on December 5, 1837. He was buried on an islet off the coast of Pohnpei. In 1838, a small chapel was built near his grave.\n\nOwing to the persecution of Bachelot and his fellow priests, the government of France sent the frigate \"L'Artémise\" to Hawaii in 1839. Its captain, Cyrille Pierre Théodore Laplace, had been instructed to force the government to stop persecuting Catholics. In response to this show of force, King granted Catholics freedom of religion.\n\n"}
{"id": "24135184", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24135184", "title": "Alice Ayres", "text": "Alice Ayres\n\nAlice Ayres (12 September 1859 – 1885) was an English nursemaid honoured for her bravery in rescuing the children in her care from a house fire. Ayres was a household assistant and nursemaid to the family of her brother-in-law and sister, Henry and Mary Ann Chandler. The Chandlers owned an oil and paint shop in Union Street, Southwark, then just south of London, and Ayres lived with the family above the shop. In 1885 fire broke out in the shop, and Ayres rescued three of her nieces from the burning building, before falling from a window and suffering fatal injury.\n\nBritain, in the wake of the Industrial Revolution, experienced a period of great social change in which the rapidly growing news media paid increasing attention to the activities of the poorer classes. The manner of Ayres' death caused great public interest, with large numbers of people attending her funeral and contributing to the funding of a memorial. Shortly after her death, she underwent what has been described as a \"secular canonisation\", being widely depicted in popular culture and, although very little was known about her life, widely cited as a role model. Various social and political movements promoted Ayres as an example of the values held by their particular movement. The circumstances of her death were distorted to give the impression that she was an employee willing to die for the sake of her employer's family, rather than for children to whom she was closely related. In 1902 her name was added to the Memorial to Heroic Self-Sacrifice and in 1936 a street near the scene of the fire was renamed Ayres Street in her honour.\n\nThe case of Alice Ayres came to renewed public notice with the release of Patrick Marber's 1997 play \"Closer\", and the 2004 film based on it. An important element of the plot revolves around a central character who fabricates her identity based on the description of Ayres on the Memorial to Heroic Self-Sacrifice, with some of the film's key scenes shot around the memorial.\n\nAlice Ayres was born into a large family in 1859, the seventh of ten children of a labourer, John Ayres. In December 1877, her sister Mary Ann (older than Alice by eleven years) married an oil and paint dealer, Henry Chandler. Chandler owned a shop at 194 Union Street in Southwark, about south of the present-day Tate Modern.\n\nIn 1881 Ayres worked as a household assistant to Edward Woakes, a doctor specialising in ear and throat disorders. By 1885 she had become a household assistant and nursemaid to the Chandlers, living with the family. After her death, Ayres was described by a local resident as \"not one of your fast sort—gentle and quiet-spoke, and always busy about her work\". Another neighbour told the press that \"no merry making, no excursion, no family festivity could tempt her from her self-imposed duties. The children must be bathed and put to bed, the clothes must be mended, the rooms must be 'tidied up', the cloth must be laid, the supper carefully prepared, before Alice would dream of setting forth on her own pleasures\".\n\nThe Chandler's shop at Union Street, as depicted in a contemporary newspaper illustration, occupied the corner premises of a building of three storeys. The family lived above the shop, with Henry and Mary Ann Chandler sleeping in one bedroom with their six-year-old son Henry, and Ayres sharing a room on the second floor with her nieces, five-year-old Edith, four-year-old Ellen, and three-year-old Elizabeth. On the night of 1885, fire broke out in the oil and paint shop, trapping the family upstairs. Gunpowder and casks of oil were stored in the lower floors of the building, causing the flames to spread rapidly. Although the shop was near the headquarters of the London Fire Brigade and the emergency services were quickly on scene, by the time the fire engine arrived intense flames were coming from the lower windows, making it impossible for the fire brigade to position ladders. Meanwhile, Ayres, wearing only a nightdress, had tried to reach her sister but was unable to get to her through the smoke. The crowd that had gathered outside the building were shouting to Ayres to jump. Instead she returned to the room she shared with the three young girls and threw a mattress out of the window, carefully dropping Edith onto it. Despite further calls from below to jump and save herself, she left the window and returned carrying Ellen. Ellen clung to Ayres and refused to be dropped, but Ayres threw her out of the building, and the child was caught by a member of the crowd. Ayres went back into the smoke a third time and returned carrying badly injured Elizabeth, whom she dropped safely onto the mattress.\n\nAfter rescuing the three girls, Ayres tried to jump herself, but overcome by smoke inhalation, fell limply from the window, striking the projecting shop sign. She missed the mattress and the crowd below and fell onto the pavement, suffering spinal injuries. Ayres was rushed to nearby Guy's Hospital where, because of the public interest that her story excited, hourly bulletins were issued about her health and Queen Victoria sent a lady-in-waiting to enquire after her condition.\n\nThe oil and paint stored in the shop caused the fire to burn out of control, and when the fire services were eventually able to enter the premises the rest of the family were found dead. The body of Henry Chandler was found on the staircase, still clutching a locked strongbox filled with the shop's takings, while the badly burnt remains of Mary Ann Chandler were found lying next to a first floor window, the body of six-year-old Henry by her side. Ayres's condition deteriorated and she died in Guy's Hospital on 1885. Her last words were reported as \"I tried my best and could try no more\". Elizabeth, the last of the children to be rescued, had suffered severe burns to her legs and died shortly after Ayres.\n\nAyres's body was not taken to Guy's Hospital's mortuary, but was laid in a room set aside for her. The estimated value of the floral tributes came to over £1,000 (about £ as of 2018). Ayres was posthumously recognised by the Metropolitan Board of Works-controlled Royal Society for the Protection of Life from Fire (today the Society for the Protection of Life from Fire), who awarded her father John Ayres a sum of 10 guineas (about £ as of 2018) in her honour. A memorial service for Ayres at St Saviour's Church (now Southwark Cathedral) attracted such a large crowd that mourners were turned away due to lack of standing room, while a collection taken at the memorial service comprised 951 coins, totalling over £7. Ayres was given a large public funeral, attended by over 10,000 mourners. Her coffin was carried from her parents' house to her grave in Isleworth Cemetery by a team of 16 firemen, relieving each other in sets of four. The church service was attended by a group of 20 girls, dressed in white, from the village school that Ayres had attended. It had been planned that the girls should follow the coffin to the graveside and sing, but a severe hailstorm prevented this.\n\nHenry and Mary Ann Chandler were buried in Lambeth Cemetery along with the two children who had died in the fire. Edith and Ellen Chandler were accepted by the Orphan Working School in Kentish Town and trained as domestic servants.\n\nShortly after the fire it was decided to erect a monument to Ayres, to be funded by public subscription, and by August 1885 the fund had raised over £100 (about £ as of 2018). On 1885 work began on the memorial. The monument was erected above her grave in Isleworth Cemetery, and was of an Egyptian design inspired by Cleopatra's Needle, which had been raised in central London in 1878. It took the form of a solid red granite obelisk, and is still today the tallest grave marker in the cemetery. On the front of the obelisk is inscribed The right hand side of the monument lists the ten members of the Alice Ayres Memorial Committee, chaired by Rev H. W. P. Richards. The Union Street fire and Ayres's rescue of the children caused great public interest from the outset, and the fire, Ayres's death and funeral, and the fundraising for and erection of the memorial were all reported in detail in the local and national press and throughout the British Empire.\n\nThe British government had traditionally paid little attention to the poor, but in the wake of the Industrial Revolution attitudes towards the accomplishments of the lower classes were changing. The growth of the railways, the mechanisation of agriculture and the need for labour in the new inner-city factories had broken the traditional feudal economy and caused the rapid growth of cities, while increasing literacy rates led to a greater interest in the media and current affairs among ordinary workers. In 1856 the first military honour for bravery open to all ranks, the Victoria Cross, had been instituted, while in 1866 the Albert Medal, the first official honour open to civilians of all classes, was introduced. Additionally, a number of private and charitable organisations dedicated to lifesaving, most prominently the Royal Humane Society (1776) and Royal National Lifeboat Institution (1824), were increasing in activity and prominence, and gave awards and medals as a means of publicising their activities and lifesaving advice.\n\nPainter and sculptor George Frederic Watts and his second wife, designer and artist Mary Fraser Tytler, had long been advocates of the idea of art as a force for social change, and of the principle that narratives of great deeds would provide guidance to address the serious social problems of British cities. Watts had recently painted a series of portraits of leading figures he considered to be a positive social influence, the \"Hall of Fame\", which was donated to the National Portrait Gallery; since at least 1866 he had proposed as a companion piece a monument to \"unknown worth\", celebrating the bravery of ordinary people.\n\nOn 5 September 1887, a letter was published in \"The Times\" from Watts, proposing a scheme to commemorate the Golden Jubilee of Queen Victoria by means of collecting and commemorating \"a complete record of the stories of heroism in every-day life\". He cited the death of Alice Ayres as an example of the type of event he proposed to commemorate, and included in his letter a distorted account of Ayres's actions during the Union Street fire.\n\nWatts had originally proposed that the monument take the form of a colossal bronze figure, but by 1887 was proposing that the memorial take the form of \"a kind of Campo Santo\", consisting of a covered way and marble wall inscribed with the names of everyday heroes, to be built in Hyde Park. Watts's suggestion was not taken up, leading Watts to comment that \"if I had proposed a race course round Hyde Park, there would have been plenty of sympathisers\". However, his high-profile lobbying further raised the already high public awareness of the death of Alice Ayres.\n\nEmilia Aylmer Blake wrote perhaps the first poem about Ayres, titled , which she recited at a social gathering in June 1885. Sir Francis Hastings Doyle also wrote a well-received poem in honour of Ayres, as did leading social reformer and women's rights campaigner Laura Ormiston Chant. By the late 1880s Ayres was coming to be seen as a model of British devotion to duty, and her story was told in collections of heroic and inspirational stories for children, including as the first story in F. J. Cross's influential \"Beneath the Banner\", in which Cross remarked that: \"She had tried to do her best \"always\". Her loving tenderness to the children committed to her care and her pure gentle life were remarked by those around her before there was any thought of her dying a heroic death. So, when the great trial came, she was prepared; and what seems to us Divine unselfishness appeared to her but simple duty.\"\nIn 1890 a series of painted panels by Walter Crane were unveiled in Octavia Hill's Red Cross Hall, from the site of the Union Street fire. Inspired by George Frederic Watts's proposals, the panels depicted instances of heroism in everyday life; Watts himself refused to become involved in the project, as his proposed monument was intended to be a source of inspiration and contemplation as opposed to simply commemoration, and he felt that an artistic work would potentially distract viewers from the most important element of the cases, the heroic sacrifices of the individuals involved.\n\nThe first of Crane's panels depicted the Union Street fire. It is an idealised image depicting Ayres as the rescued rather than the rescuer, blending religious imagery with traditional 19th-century symbols of British heroism, and bears no relationship to actual events. Ayres, in a long and flowing pure white gown, stands at a first floor window, surrounded in flames and holding a small child. A fireman stands on a ladder and reaches out to Ayres and the child; meanwhile, a sailor in full Royal Navy uniform holds a second child. Although in reality Ayres had been at a much higher level of the building and the heat of the burning oil and gunpowder had made it impossible for the fire brigade to approach the building, by depicting Ayres with the fireman and sailor, widely seen as symbols of British heroism and British strength, Crane's picture further enhanced her growing reputation as a heroic figure. Crane's picture in the Red Cross Hall was itself mentioned in , a border ballad by National Trust founder Canon Hardwicke Rawnsley published in his 1896 \"Ballads of Brave Deeds\", for which George Frederic Watts wrote the preface.\n\nIn 1898 George Frederic Watts was approached by Henry Gamble, vicar of St Botolph's Aldersgate church in the City of London. St Botolph's former churchyard had recently been converted, along with two smaller adjoining burial grounds, into Postman's Park, one of the largest public parks in the City of London, and the church was engaged in a protracted financial and legal dispute over ownership of part of the park. To provide a public justification for keeping the disputed land as part of the park, and to raise the park's profile and assist in fundraising, the church offered part of the park as a site for his proposed memorial. Watts agreed, and in 1900 the Memorial to Heroic Self-Sacrifice was unveiled by Alfred Newton, Lord Mayor of London, and Mandell Creighton, Bishop of London. The Memorial consisted of a long and tall wooden loggia with a tiled roof, designed by Ernest George, sheltering a wall with space for 120 ceramic memorial tablets.\nThe memorial tablets were handmade and expensive to produce, and at the time of the Memorial's unveiling only four were in place. In 1902 a further nine tablets were unveiled, including the memorial to Alice Ayres for which Watts had long lobbied. Made by William De Morgan in the Arts and Crafts style, the green-and-white tablet reads \"Alice Ayres, daughter of a bricklayer's labourer who by intrepid conduct saved 3 children from a burning house in Union Street, Borough, at the cost of her own young life April 24, 1885\".\n\nAlthough the public would have been familiar with the concept of a female national heroic figure following the widespread coverage and public admiration of Harriet Newell, Grace Darling, and Florence Nightingale, the ongoing coverage of Ayres and her elevation as a national hero was unusual for the period. Ayres was an uneducated working-class woman, who after her death underwent what has been described as \"a secular canonisation\", at a time when, despite the gradual formal recognition of the contributions of the lower classes, national heroes were generally male and engaged in exploration, the military, religion or science and engineering.\n\nThis was a period in which political pressures for social reform were growing. The version of Ayres presented to the public as a woman devoted entirely to duty embodied the idealised British character at the time, while the image of a hard working but uncomplaining woman who set the welfare of others above her own embodied the idealised vision of the working class presented by social reformers, and the ideal selfless and dedicated woman presented by campaigners for women's rights. At the unveiling of the Memorial to Heroic Self-Sacrifice the Lord Mayor, Alfred Newton, had remarked that it was \"intended to perpetuate the acts of heroism which belonged to the working classes\", while George Frederic Watts, although he was opposed in principle to discrimination based on class and saw the Memorial as being theoretically open to all classes, had remarked that \"the higher classes do not or ought not to require reminders or inducements\". Watts saw the purpose of his Memorial not as a commemoration of deeds, but as a tool for the education of the lower classes.\n\nWatts's view was shared by others who sought to provide inspirational material on British heroes, and authors writing about Ayres systematically altered the fact that the children rescued were members of her family, instead describing them as the children of her employer. Press reports at the time of the fire described Ayres variously as a \"little nursemaid\", \"a willing, honest, hard-working servant\", and a \"poor little domestic\". As well as Watts's 1887 description of Ayres as \"the maid of all work at an oilmonger's\", Cross's chapter on Ayres in \"Beneath the Banner\" is titled \"Only a Nurse Girl!\", while Rawnsley called her \"the nursemaid in the household\". Barrington, writing five years after the fire at the unveiling of Price's panel, acknowledges in a footnote that Ayres was related to the Chandlers, but nonetheless describes her as displaying the \"typical English virtues—courage, fortitude, and an unquestioning sense of duty\".\n\nWhile George and Mary Watts and their fellow paternalist social reformers, along with the broadly sympathetic mainstream British press, portrayed Ayres as an inspirational selfless servant to her employer, others had a different view. The left-wing \"Reynolds's Weekly Newspaper\" complained that the lack of support for Ayres's family from the state was symbolic of poor treatment of workers as a whole. The pioneering feminist periodical \"The Englishwoman's Review\" described their \"righteous pride\" at Ayres's \"instinctive motherhood\"; on the other hand \"Young England\", an imperialist children's story paper, said that \"there is no sex in self-sacrifice\", lauding Ayres as a model of devotion to duty.\n\nIn 1936 the new Labour administration of the London County Council renamed White Cross Street, near the site of the Red Cross Hall and the scene of the Union Street fire, to Ayres Street in tribute to Alice Ayres, a name it retains today. The Chandlers' house at 194 Union Street no longer stands, and the site is occupied by part of the Union House office complex; immediately opposite the site of the fire is the present-day headquarters of the London Fire Brigade.\n\nAlice Ayres came to renewed public notice with the release of the 1997 play \"Closer\" by Patrick Marber and the 2004 BAFTA Award- and Golden Globe-winning film \"Closer\" based on it starring Natalie Portman, Julia Roberts, Jude Law, and Clive Owen. A key plot element revolves around the memorial tablet to Ayres at the Memorial to Heroic Self-Sacrifice in Postman's Park, in which it is revealed that the character Jane Jones (played by Portman in the film), who calls herself Alice Ayres for most of the story, has in fact fabricated her name and identity based on the tablet on the Memorial, which she reads at the time of her first meeting with Dan Woolf (played by Jude Law) near the beginning of the film. The park, and the memorial to Ayres, feature prominently in the opening and closing scenes of the film.\n\nNotes\n\nReferences\nBibliography\n"}
{"id": "36663715", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36663715", "title": "Anna de Brémont", "text": "Anna de Brémont\n\nAnna Elizabeth, Countess de Brémont (\"née\" Dunphy; c. 1849 – October 1922) was an American journalist, novelist, poet and singer. She spent much of her life in England. A period in South Africa provided the material for some of her books.\n\nShe was born in New York and moved to Cincinnati, Ohio with her mother, following her father's death. Her mother remarried Thomas Malloy.\n\nShe was at one time principal singer in the choir of Cincinnati Cathedral and later a contralto soloist at Henry Ward Beecher's church in Brooklyn. In 1877, she married \nÉmile-Leon, the Count de Brémont, a French medical doctor working in New York. Following his death in May 1882, she moved to Europe. she met theatrical promoter Brandon Thomas in London. He set up a literary and musical tour for her, in the course of which she visited India, Australia and South Africa.\n\nIn London in 1888, she was initiated into the Order of the Golden Dawn, alongside Oscar Wilde's wife Constance. She later wrote a memoir about Wilde and his mother. In May 1888, she appeared at the Globe Theatre in London in \"the Countess de Brémont's Matinee\" as Rosalind in the forest scenes from \"As You Like It\". The \"Era\" said \"her style was decidedly unsatisfactory\".\n\nIn 1893, in the course of a review of three volumes by de Brémont, published under the general title of \"The World of Music\", the \"New York Times\" reported that \"it is said that this quondam light of Cincinnati now coruscates amid the incandescents of the Mrs Leo Hunter circle of London.\"\n\nShe spent some time in South Africa. On her departure from the country in June 1890, it was reported that she had a novel based on her experiences there in progress, and had begun preparing a lecture on life in the Transvaal, focusing on the social effects of the discovery of gold. \"The Gentleman Digger\" was published the next year, its characters thinly disguised versions of real people.\n\nIn 1894, while working for \"St Paul's\" magazine in London, she wrote to the librettist W.S. Gilbert requesting an interview. He replied, saying that he would cooperate in return for a fee of 20 guineas. She wrote back saying that she anticipated \"the pleasure of writing Mr Gilbert's obituary for nothing\". Gilbert retaliated by sending letters to the press which referred to \"a lady styling herself the Countess de Brémont\". She sued Gilbert for libel, claiming he had implied that she had no right to her title. Gilbert told the court that he had no knowledge of de Brémont except for the letter, and the jury found in his favour.\n\nShe was in London during the First World War, where her experiences of German air-raids inspired her novel \"The Black Opal\". In 1920, it was reported her fortune was gone. She died \"penniless\" in Earl's Court in 1922, aged 73, and was buried in the Roman Catholic section of Kensal Green Cemetery.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "22331570", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22331570", "title": "Archibald Barton", "text": "Archibald Barton\n\nArchibald Barton (1862 – after 1889) was an English professional footballer who played in the Football Alliance for Small Heath. Barton was born in the Moseley district of Birmingham and played local football for Coles Farm Unity before joining Small Heath. He played competitively only once for the club, in the opening game of the 1889–90 season, deputising at right-back when Fred Speller was switched to the left in the absence of Walter Gittins. Barton died in Birmingham.\n"}
{"id": "15655877", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15655877", "title": "Arthur K. Watson", "text": "Arthur K. Watson\n\nArthur Kittredge \"Dick\" Watson (April 23, 1919 – July 26, 1974) served as president of IBM World Trade Corporation and United States Ambassador to France.\n\nHis father, Thomas J. Watson, was IBM's founder and oversaw that company's growth into an international force from the 1920s to the 1950s. His brother Thomas J. Watson Jr. was the president of IBM from 1952 to 1971 and United States Ambassador to the Soviet Union.\n\nArthur K. Watson–known as \"Dick\" by his friends and colleagues–was born in Summit, New Jersey. He attended The Hotchkiss School and Yale University.\n\nIn the late 1940s, Watson assisted his father, IBM's president Thomas J. Watson Sr., in the incorporation and organization of the IBM World Trade Corporation – the subsidiary which handled IBM's business outside the United States. As president and later board chairman of the IBM World Trade Corporation, Dick Watson expanded its operations throughout the world. During his 21 years of leadership, he spent a large part of his time traveling abroad, often accompanied by his family. He established numerous new country operations, selected managers and guided the expansion of the international businesses.\n\nWhen he began in IBM in February 1947, Dick Watson spoke fluent French. During the next five years of his business career, he spent more than an hour a day to master Spanish and German, and to develop a working knowledge of Portuguese. These linguistic skills were a major asset to Watson throughout his international career.\n\nAt the time Watson joined the IBM World Trade Corporation subsidiary upon its formation in 1949, IBM sales outside the United States were less than $50 million. When he resigned in 1970 to become Ambassador to France, IBM World Trade Corporation sales had grown to more than $2.5 billion, and the company had established business operations in 108 countries. By then, net income from World Trade operations equaled those of the U.S. company.\n\nFrom his first European business trip with his father in 1948, Dick Watson held to a conviction that Western Europe would eventually emerge in the postwar period as a united economic community. He supported the formation of the European Economic Community and made sure that the IBM World Trade Corporation was one of the first U.S.-based companies to build up its manufacturing and development capabilities within the Common Market.\n\nHe was also convinced that the U.S. business community should play a larger role in aiding the developing countries of the world. He sought ways to build up local economies in Asia and Latin America. He went on two U.S. government missions to Latin America. In 1964, Watson, with New York Senator Jacob Javits and others, formed ADELA, an investment institution in Lima, Peru. Funded by a worldwide group of banks and corporations, it provided capital for local businesses in Latin America. In Nigeria, he established an IBM educational facility at Ibadan University to provide training in computer skills.\n\nDick Watson served at the requests of Presidents John F. Kennedy and Lyndon B. Johnson on two distinguished panels established to stimulate U.S. trade. The 14-member panel he headed for President Johnson reported a number of findings later adopted by the U.S. Agency for International Development. He was a member of New York Governor Nelson Rockefeller's Commission on Critical Choices for Americans.\n\nAs president of the International Chamber of Commerce in 1967 and 1968, Dick Watson became an international advocate for \"freer\" trade. In 1968 he also founded, with David Rockefeller, the Emergency Committee for American Trade, a public affairs organization that was eventually joined by the heads of 60 of the largest corporations in the United States. Its purpose was to muster support against protectionism in the United States.\nIn 1970, Watson resigned his positions as a chairman of the board of IBM World Trade, and vice chairman and director of IBM, to become U.S. Ambassador to France. He was also the first official liaison of the United States with the People's Republic of China through its then Ambassador to France, Huang Chen.\n\nWatson was a benefactor of the Metropolitan Museum of Art, serving as a trustee of the Museum and as a member of the Museum's Centennial committee.\n\nDick Watson's contributions to international relations were recognized with honors from several countries. He received the Vatican's Equestrian Order of St. Sylvester. He had already won the French Legion of Honor prior to his ambassadorship. Before he returned from France, President Georges Pompidou awarded him the rank of Grand Cross of the Republic's Order of Merit, one of France's highest honors.\n\nUpon his return from France in 1972, Watson was reelected to IBM's board of directors and its executive committee. He also founded partnership Dankist, a venture capital firm located in Stamford, Conn.\n\nArthur K. Watson died as a result of a fall on July 26, 1974 in New Canaan, Connecticut, at age 55. Yale University's computer science building is named in his honor.\n\n"}
{"id": "5110851", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5110851", "title": "Bay View massacre", "text": "Bay View massacre\n\nThe Bay View massacre (sometimes also referred to as the Bay View Tragedy) was the unfortunate result of a strike held on May 4, 1886, by 7,000 building-trades workers and 5,000 Polish laborers who had organized at St. Stanislaus Catholic Church in Milwaukee, Wisconsin to strike against their employers, demanding the enforcement of an eight-hour work day. A few days earlier, on May 1, a peaceful demonstration had been held in nearby Chicago, with similar demands.\n\nBy Monday, May 3, the number of participants had increased to over 14,000 workers that gathered at the Milwaukee Iron Company rolling mill in Bay View. They were met by 250 National Guardsmen under order from Republican Governor Jeremiah M. Rusk. The strikers had shut down every business in the city except the North Chicago Rolling Mills in Bay View. The guardsmen's orders were that, if the strikers were to enter the Mills, they should shoot to kill. But when the captain received the order it had a different meaning: he ordered his men to pick out a man and shoot to kill when the order was given. Workers camped in the nearby fields and the Kosciuszko Militia arrived by May 4. Early the next day the crowd, which by this time contained children, approached the mill and were fired upon. Seven people died as a result, including a thirteen-year-old boy. Several more were injured during the protest. Several contradictory newspaper accounts described other possible casualties, but the count of seven deaths is substantiated by specific names (Frank Kunkel, Frank Nowarczyk, John Marsh, Robert Erdman, Johann Zazka, Martin Jankowiak, and Michael Ruchalski).\n\nSince 1986, members of the Bay View Historical Society, the Wisconsin Labor History Society, and other community groups have held a commemorative event to honor the memories of those killed during the incident. The event is held every year on the first Sunday in May at 3pm, at the State Historical Marker site at the intersection of Superior Street and Russell Avenue, within view of the former rolling mill location.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "941613", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=941613", "title": "Binding problem", "text": "Binding problem\n\nThe binding problem is a term used at the interface between neuroscience, cognitive science and philosophy of mind that has multiple meanings.\n\nFirstly, there is the segregation problem: a practical computational problem of how brains segregate elements in complex patterns of sensory input so that they are allocated to discrete \"objects\". In other words, when looking at a blue square and a yellow circle, what neural mechanisms ensure that the square is perceived as blue and the circle as yellow, and not vice versa? The segregation problem is sometimes called BP1.\n\nSecondly, there is the combination problem:The problem of how objects, background and abstract or emotional features are combined into a single experience. The combination problem is sometimes called BP2.\n\nHowever, the difference between these two problems is not always clear. Moreover, the historical literature is often ambiguous as to whether it is addressing the segregation or the combination problem.\n\nThe segregation problem is the problem of how brains segregate elements in complex patterns of sensory input so that they are allocated to discrete \"objects\".\n\nSmythies defined BP1 in these terms: \"How is the representation of information built up in the neural networks that there is one single object 'out there' and not a mere collection of separate shapes, colours and movements?\" Revonsuo refers to this as the problem of \"stimulus-related binding\" – of sorting stimuli. Although usually referred to as a problem of binding, the computational problem is arguably one of discrimination. Thus, in the words of Canales et al.: \"to bind together all the features of one object and segregate them from features of other objects and the background\". Bartels and Zeki describe it as \"determining that it is the same (or a different) stimulus which is activating different cells in a given visual area or in different visual areas\".\n\nMost experimental work is on vision, where it is known that humans and other mammals process different aspects of perception by separating information about those aspects and processing them in distinct regions of the brain. For example, Bartels and Zeki have shown that different areas in the visual cortex specialize in processing the different aspects of colour, motion, and shape. This type of modular coding has been claimed to yield a potential for ambiguity. When humans view a scene containing a blue square and a yellow circle, some neurons signal in response to blue, others signal in response to yellow, still others to a square shape or a circle shape. Here, the binding problem is the issue of how the brain correctly pairs colour and shape, i.e. indicates that blue goes with square, rather than yellow.\n\nA popular hypothesis perhaps first suggested by Milner has been that features of individual objects are bound/segregated via synchronisation of the activity of different neurons in the cortex. The theory is that when two feature-neurons fire synchronously they are bound, while when they fire out of synchrony they are unbound. Empirical testing of the idea was given impetus when von der Malsburg proposed that feature binding posed a special problem that could not be covered simply by cellular firing rates. A number of studies suggested that there is indeed a relationship between rhythmic synchronous firing and feature binding. This rhythmic firing appears to be linked to intrinsic oscillations in neuronal somatic potentials, typically in the gamma range close to 40 Hz. However, Thiele and Stoner found that perceptual binding of two moving patterns had no effect on synchronisation of the neurons responding to the two patterns. In the primary visual cortex, Dong et al. found that whether two neurons were responding to contours of the same shape or different shapes had no effect on neural synchrony. Revonsuo reports similar negative findings.\n\nThe positive arguments for a role for rhythmic synchrony in resolving the segregational object-feature binding problem (BP1) have been summarized by Singer. There is certainly extensive evidence for synchronization of neural firing as part of responses to visual stimuli. However, there is inconsistency between findings from different laboratories. Moreover, a number of recent reviewers, including Shadlen and Movshon and Merker have raised concerns.\n\nShadlen and Movshon, raise a series of doubts about both the theoretical and the empirical basis for the idea of segregational binding by temporal synchrony. Firstly, it is not clear that binding does pose a special computational problem of the sort proposed by von der Malsburg. Secondly, it is unclear how synchrony would come to play a distinct role in terms of local computational logic. Thirdly, it is difficult to envisage a situation in which pre-synaptic firing rate and synchrony could be usefully interpreted independently by a post-synaptic cell, since the two are interdependent over plausible time scales.\n\nAnother point that has been raised is that within standard time frames for neuronal firing very few distinct phases of synchrony would be distinguishable even under optimal conditions. However, this would only be significant if the same pathways are potentially fed spike (signal) trains in multiple phases. In contrast, Seth describes an artificial brain-based robot that demonstrates multiple, separate, widely distributed neural circuits, firing at different phases, suggesting that synchrony may assist the establishment of discrete object-related re-entrant circuits in a system exposed to randomly timed stimuli.\n\nGoldfarb and Treisman point out that a logical problem appears to arise for binding solely via synchrony if there are several objects that share some of their features and not others. When viewing a display of variously coloured letters, internal representation of a red X, a green O, a red O and a green X cannot be accounted for purely by synchrony of signals for red and X shape, for instance. At best synchrony can facilitate segregation supported by other means (as von der Malsburg acknowledges).\n\nA number of neuropsychological studies suggest that the association of colour, shape and movement as \"features of an object\" is not simply a matter of linking or \"binding\". Purves and Lotto give extensive evidence for top-down feedback signals that ensure that sensory data are handled as features of (sometimes wrongly) postulated objects early in processing. In many illusions data appear as if pre-consciously adjusted in accordance with object expectations. Pylyshyn has also emphasized the way the brain seems to pre-conceive objects to which features are to be allocated and which are attributed continuing existence even if features, like color change.\n\nIn her feature integration theory, Treisman suggested that binding between features is mediated by the features' links to a common location. Psychophysical demonstrations of binding failures under conditions of full attention provide support for the idea that binding is accomplished through common location tags.\nAn implication of these approaches is that sensory data such as colour or motion may not normally exist in \"unallocated\" form. For Merker: \"The 'red' of a red ball does not float disembodied in an abstract color space in V4.\" If colour information allocated to a point in the visual field is converted directly, via the instantiation of some form of propositional logic (analogous to that used in computer design) into colour information allocated to an \"object identity\" postulated by a top-down signal as suggested by Purves and Lotto, (e.g. There is blue here + Object 1 is here = Object 1 is blue) no special computational task of \"binding together\" by means such as synchrony may exist. (Although Von der Malsburg poses the problem in terms of binding \"propositions\" such as \"triangle\" and \"top\", these, in isolation, are not propositional.)\n\nHow signals in the brain come to have propositional content, or meaning, is a much larger issue. However, both Marr and Barlow suggested, on the basis of what was known about neural connectivity in the 1970s that the final integration of features into a percept would be expected to resemble the way words operate in sentences.\n\nThe role of synchrony in segregational binding remains controversial. Merker has recently suggested that synchrony may be a feature of areas of activation in the brain that relates to an \"infrastructural\" feature of the computational system analogous to increased oxygen demand indicated via MRI. Apparent specific correlations with segregational tasks may be explainable on the basis of interconnectivity of the areas involved. As a possible manifestation of a need to balance excitation and inhibition over time it might be expected to be associated with reciprocal re-entrant circuits as in the model of Seth et al. (Merker gives the analogy of the whistle from an audio amplifier receiving its own output.)\n\nIf it transpires that synchronized activity plays at most an infrastructural role in segregative computational \"binding\", the question arises as to whether we need another explanation. The implication both of Shadlen and Movshon's and of Merker's analyses seems to be that there may be no special binding problem in this sense. The problem may be merely an integral part of the more general problem of the computational logic used by neurons, or what is often referred to as the \"neural code\". In particular it may be inappropriate to analyse binding in perception without taking into account the way features are bound in memory, as addressed by Zimmer and colleagues, and how that informs the way the brain pre-conceives objects.\n\nSmythies defines BP2 as \"How do the brain mechanisms actually construct the phenomenal object?\". Revonsuo equates this to \"consciousness-related binding\", emphasizing the entailment of a phenomenal aspect. As Revonsuo explores in 2006, there are nuances of difference beyond the basic BP1:BP2 division. Smythies speaks of constructing a phenomenal object (\"local unity\" for Revonsuo) but philosophers such as Descartes, Leibniz, Kant and James (see Brook and Raymont) have typically been concerned with the broader unity of a phenomenal experience (\"global unity\" for Revonsuo) – which, as Bayne illustrates may involve features as diverse as seeing a book, hearing a tune and feeling an emotion. Further discussion will focus on this more general problem of how sensory data that may have been segregated into, for instance, \"blue square\" and \"yellow circle\" are to be re-combined into a single phenomenal experience of a blue square next to a yellow circle, plus all other features of their context. There are a wide range of views on just how real this \"unity\" is, but the existence of medical conditions in which it appears to be subjectively impaired, or at least restricted, suggests that it is not entirely illusory.\n\nEarly philosophers such as Descartes and Leibniz noted that the apparent unity of our experience is an all-or-none qualitative characteristic that does not appear to have an equivalent in the known quantitative features, like proximity or cohesion, of composite matter. William James, in the nineteenth century, considered the ways the unity of consciousness might be explained by known physics and found no satisfactory answer. He coined the term \"combination problem\", in the specific context of a \"mind-dust theory\" in which it is proposed that a full human conscious experience is built up from proto- or micro-experiences in the way that matter is built up from atoms. James claimed that such a theory was incoherent, since no causal physical account could be given of how distributed proto-experiences would \"combine\". He favoured instead a concept of \"co-consciousness\" in which there is one \"experience of A, B and C\" rather than combined experiences. A detailed discussion of subsequent philosophical positions is given by Brook and Raymont (see 26). However, these do not generally include physical interpretations. James remained concerned about the absence of a \"single physical thing\", other than an atom, that could be co-conscious (of A, B and C), echoing Leibniz.\n\nWhitehead proposed a fundamental ontological basis for a relation consistent with James's idea of co-consciousness, in which many causal elements are co-available or \"compresent\" in a single event or \"occasion\" that constitutes a unified experience. Whitehead did not give physical specifics but the idea of compresence is framed in terms of causal convergence in a local interaction consistent with physics. Where Whitehead goes beyond anything formally recognized in physics is in the \"chunking\" of causal relations into complex but discrete \"occasions\". Even if such occasions can be defined, Whitehead's approach still leaves James's difficulty with finding a site, or sites, of causal convergence that would make neurobiological sense for \"co-consciousness\". Sites of signal convergence do clearly exist throughout the brain but there is a concern to avoid re-inventing what Dennett calls a Cartesian Theater or single central site of convergence of the form that Descartes proposed.\n\nDescartes's central \"soul\" is now rejected because neural activity closely correlated with conscious perception is widely distributed throughout the cortex. The remaining choices appear to be either separate involvement of multiple distributed causally convergent events or a model that does not tie a phenomenal experience to any specific local physical event but rather to some overall \"functional\" capacity. Whichever interpretation is taken, as Revonsuo indicates, there is no consensus on what structural level we are dealing with – whether the cellular level, that of cellular groups as \"nodes\", \"complexes\" or \"assemblies\" or that of widely distributed networks. There is probably only general agreement that it is not the level of the whole brain, since there is evidence that signals in certain primary sensory areas, such as the V1 region of the visual cortex (in addition to motor areas and cerebellum), do not contribute directly to phenomenal experience.\n\nDennett has proposed that our sense that our experiences are single events is illusory and that, instead, at any one time there are \"multiple drafts\" of sensory patterns at multiple sites. Each would only cover a fragment of what we think we experience. Arguably, Dennett is claiming that consciousness is not unified and there is no phenomenal binding problem. Most philosophers have difficulty with this position (see Bayne). Dennett's view might be in keeping with evidence from recall experiments and change blindness purporting to show that our experiences are much less rich than we sense them to be – what has been called the Grand Illusion. However, few, if any, other authors suggest the existence of multiple partial \"drafts\". Moreover, also on the basis of recall experiments, Lamme has challenged the idea that richness is illusory, emphasizing that phenomenal content cannot be equated with content to which there is cognitive access.\n\nDennett does not tie drafts to biophysical events. Multiple sites of causal convergence are invoked in specific biophysical terms by Edwards and Sevush. In this view the sensory signals to be combined in phenomenal experience are available, in full, at each of multiple sites. To avoid non-causal combination each site/event is placed within an individual neuronal dendritic tree. The advantage is that \"compresence\" is invoked just where convergence occurs neuro-anatomically. The disadvantage, as for Dennett, is the counter-intuitive concept of multiple \"copies\" of experience. The precise nature of an experiential event or \"occasion\", even if local, also remains uncertain.\n\nThe majority of theoretical frameworks for the unified richness of phenomenal experience adhere to the intuitive idea that experience exists as a single copy, and draw on \"functional\" descriptions of distributed networks of cells. Baars has suggested that certain signals, encoding what we experience, enter a \"Global Workspace\" within which they are \"broadcast\" to many sites in the cortex for parallel processing. Dehaene, Changeux and colleagues have developed a detailed neuro-anatomical version of such a workspace. Tononi and colleagues have suggested that the level of richness of an experience is determined by the narrowest information interface \"bottleneck\" in the largest sub-network or \"complex\" that acts as an integrated functional unit. Lamme has suggested that networks supporting reciprocal signaling rather than those merely involved in feed-forward signaling support experience. Edelman and colleagues have also emphasized the importance of re-entrant signaling. Cleeremans emphasizes meta-representation as the functional signature of signals contributing to consciousness.\n\nIn general, such network-based theories are not explicitly theories of how consciousness is unified, or \"bound\" but rather theories of functional domains within which signals contribute to unified conscious experience. A concern about functional domains is what Rosenberg has called the boundary problem; it is hard to find a unique account of what is to be included and what excluded. Nevertheless, this is, if anything is, the consensus approach.\n\nWithin the network context, a role for synchrony has been invoked as a solution to the phenomenal binding problem as well as the computational one. In his book, The Astonishing Hypothesis, Crick appears to be offering a solution to BP2 as much as BP1. Even von der Malsburg, introduces detailed computational arguments about object feature binding with remarks about a \"psychological moment\". The Singer group also appear to be interested as much in the role of synchrony in phenomenal awareness as in computational segregation.\n\nThe apparent incompatibility of using synchrony to both segregate and unify might be explained by sequential roles. However, Merker points out what appears to be a contradiction in attempts to solve the phenomenal unification problem (BP2) in terms of a functional (effectively meaning computational) rather than a local biophysical, domain, in the context of synchrony.\n\nFunctional arguments for a role for synchrony are in fact underpinned by analysis of local biophysical events. However, Merker points out that the explanatory work is done by the downstream integration of synchronized signals in post-synaptic neurons: \"It is, however, by no means clear what is to be understood by 'binding by synchrony' other than the threshold advantage conferred by synchrony at, and only at, sites of axonal convergence onto single dendritic trees...\" In other words, although synchrony is proposed as a way of explaining binding on a distributed, rather than a convergent, basis the justification rests on what happens at convergence. Signals for two features are proposed as bound by synchrony because synchrony effects downstream convergent interaction. Any theory of phenomenal binding based on this sort of computational function would seem to follow the same principle. The phenomenality would entail convergence, if the computational function does.\n\nAlthough BP1 and BP2 are different, this need not invalidate the assumption, implicit in many of the quoted models, that computational and phenomenal events, at least at some point in the sequence of events, parallel each other in some way. The difficulty remains in identifying what that way might be. Merker's analysis suggests that either (1) both computational and phenomenal aspects of binding are determined by convergence of signals on neuronal dendritic trees, or (2) that our intuitive ideas about the need for \"binding\" in a \"holding together\" sense in both computational and phenomenal contexts are misconceived. We may be looking for something extra that is not needed. Merker, for instance, argues that the homotopic connectivity of sensory pathways does the necessary work.\n\nThe nature of, and solution to, BP2 remains a matter of controversy.\n\nA new study published in Psychological Review and \"Interface Focus\" 2018, the Royal Society's cross-disciplinary journal at the interface between the physical and life sciences, sheds new light on how the visual system may represent which features are bound together as part of the same object. \n\nThe research team, the Oxford Centre for Theoretical Neuroscience and Artificial Intelligence , led by Dr Simon Stringer from University of Oxford, performed bio-inspired Spiking Neural Network simulations of the primate ventral visual system to address this enduring question. By training the biophysical model on a set of visual stimuli, has been observed the emergence of a subpopulation of neurons, called \"polychronous neuronal groups\" (PNG), that exhibits regularly repeating spatio-temporal patterns of spikes. The underlying phenomenon of such spatio-temporal patterns responses is known as polychronization. The main point of this proposed novel approach is that within these PNGs exist neurons, called \"binding neurons\", that learn to represent the hierarchical binding relationships between lower and higher level visual features at every spatial scale and across the entire visual field. These binding neurons have been firstly formulated by Christoph von der Malsburg , however, it has not previously been shown how these neurons may develop naturally through a biologically plausible process of visually guided learning and self-organization of polychronous neuronal groups. This latest research describe that such binding neurons emerge automatically within the PNGs during visually training when key properties of the visual cortex are incorporated into the model. This finding is consistent with the hierarchical nature of primate vision depicted by John Duncan & Glyn W. Humphreys:\"A fully hierarchical representation is created by repeating segmentation at different levels of scale. Each structural unit, contained by its own boundary, is further subdivided into parts by the major boundaries within it. Thus, a human body may be subdivided into head, torso, and limbs, and a hand into palm and fingers. Such subdivision serves two purposes. The description of a structural unit at one level of scale (animal, letter, etc.) must depend heavily on the relations between the parts defined within it (as well as on properties such as colour or movement that may be common to the parts). Then, at the next level down, each part becomes a new structural unit to be further described with its own properties, defined among other things by the relations between its own subparts. At the top of the hierarchy may be a structural unit corresponding to the whole input scene, described with a rough set of properties (e.g. division into light sky above and dark ground below).\"\n\nMoreover, this hierarchy feature binding theory proposes that information about visual features at every spatial scale, including the binding relations between these features, would be projected upwards to the higher layers of the network, where spatial information would be available for readout by later brain systems to guide behavior. This mechanism has been called the \"holographic principle\". Lastly, by representing the hierarchical binding relationships between visual features at every spatial scale across a visual scene, these kinds of binding neurons could underpin visual consciousness itself, the capacity of the visual brain to perceive and make sense of its visuospatial world. Therefore, this work may represent a significant advancement towards the future development of Artificial General Intelligence and Machine Consciousness, opening up new perspectives on building machines endowed with human-level intelligence.\n\n"}
{"id": "5399633", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5399633", "title": "Chaperon (headgear)", "text": "Chaperon (headgear)\n\nChaperon ( or ; Middle French: \"chaperon\") was a form of hood or, later, highly versatile hat worn in all parts of Western Europe in the Middle Ages. Initially a utilitarian garment, it first grew a long partly decorative tail behind called a liripipe, and then developed into a complex, versatile and expensive headgear after what was originally the vertical opening for the face began to be used as a horizontal opening for the head. It was especially fashionable in mid-15th century Burgundy, before gradually falling out of fashion in the late 15th century and returning to its utilitarian status. It is the most commonly worn male headgear in Early Netherlandish painting, but its complicated construction is often misunderstood.\n\nThe chaperon began before 1200 as a hood with a short cape, put on by pulling over the head, or fastening at the front. The hood could be pulled off the head to hang behind, leaving the short cape round the neck and shoulders. The edge of the cape was often trimmed, cut or scalloped for decorative effect. There were wool ones, used in cold weather, and lighter ones for summer. In this form it continued through to the end of the Middle Ages, worn by the lower classes, often by women as well as men, and especially in Northern Europe. The hood was loose at the back, and sometimes ended in a tail that came to a point.\n\nChaperon is a diminutive of \"chape\", which derives, like the English \"cap\", \"cape\" and \"cope\", from the Late Latin \"cappa\", which already could mean \"cap\", \"cape\" or \"hood\" (OED).\n\nThe tail of the hood, often quite long, was called the \"tippit\" or liripipe in English, and \"liripipe\" or cornette in French. The cape element was a patte in French and in English \"cape\", or sometimes \"cockscomb\" when fancily cut. Later a round bourrelet (or \"rondel\") could form part of the assemblage. Patte, cornette and bourrelet were the usual terms in the French of the 15th century Burgundian court, and are used here. In Italian the equivalent terms were foggia, becchetto, and mazzocchio.\n\n\"Chaperon\" was sometimes used in English, and also German, for both the hood and hat forms (OED). But the word never appears in the Paston Letters, where there are many references to \"hats\", \"hoods\" and \"bonnets\" for men. As with all aspects of medieval costume, there are many contemporary images of clothing, and many mentions of names for clothing in contemporary documents, but definitively matching the names to the styles in the images is rarely possible. In Italian the word was cappuccio [kap'put:ʃo], or its diminutive \"cappuccino\", from which come the Capuchin friars, whose distinctive white hood and brown robe led to the monkey and the type of coffee being named after them (it also means the cap of a pen in Italian).\n\n\"Little Red Riding Hood\" is \"Le Petit Chaperon rouge\" in the earliest published version, by Charles Perrault, and French depictions of the story naturally favour the chaperon over the long riding-hood of ones in English.\n\nIn French \"chaperon\" was also the term in falconry for the hood placed over a hawk's head when held on the hand to stop it wanting to fly away. It is either this or the headgear meaning that later extended figuratively to become chaperon (in UK English, almost always \"chaperone\") meaning a protective escort, especially for a woman.\n\nAbout 1300 the chaperon began to be worn by putting the hole intended for the face over the top of the head instead; perhaps in hot weather. This left the \"cornette\" tail and the cape or \"patte\", hanging loose from the top of the head. This became fashionable, and chaperons began to be made to be worn in this style. Some authorities only use the term chaperon for this type, calling the earlier forms hoods – which was certainly their usual name in English. This is a categorisation for modern discussions only; there is no dispute over whether chaperon was the contemporary term. See the wearing \"Colley-Weston-ward\" of the mandilion for an analogous development in a type of coat.\n\nA padded circular bourrelet (or \"rondel\") evolved, which sat around the head, whilst the \"cornette\" became much longer, and gradually more scarf-like in shape, until by the 1430s it was usually straight at the sides and square-ended. Especially in Italy, the cornette was sometimes dispensed with, leaving just an un-flared tubular patte fixed to the bourrelet all round and hanging down to one side of the head. Reed (see refs) calls these \"sack hats\".\n\nBy 1400–16, the period of the famous illuminated manuscripts of the \"Livre de Chasse\" of Gaston Phoebus (Bibliothèque Nationale, Paris Ms Français 616), and the \"Très Riches Heures du Duc de Berry\" chaperons are to be seen worn by many figures. In the famous Calendar scenes of the \"Trés Riches Heures\", they are worn in the original form by the peasants working in the fields, both men and women (February, March and September), and huntsmen (December), and in the new form by some of the courtiers (January and May), who wear coloured and scalloped ones, probably of silk. However, the Duke himself, and the most prominent courtiers, do not wear them. In the \"Livre du Chasse\" they are most often worn by the lower huntsmen on foot in the original form, though they and mounted hunters also wear them on top of the head. Figures often have a hood chaperon and a hat as well. Only the original form (trimmed with fur in one case - fol.51V) is worn by the very highest-ranking figures. \n\nBy the 1430s most chaperons had become simpler in the treatment of the cloth, and the cornette is long and plain, although the patte may still be elaborately treated with dagging. A perhaps overdressed courtier in a Van der Weyden workshop \"Exhumation of St Hubert\" (National Gallery, London NG 783) from this decade still has a very elaborately cut and dagged patte. A figure behind him is wearing his in church, which is unusual (both figures can be paralleled in the \"Seven Sacraments Altarpiece\"; see Gallery below).\n\nBy the middle of the 15th century the evolved chaperon (worn on top of the head, with bourrelet) had become common wear for males in the upper and middle classes, and were worn in painted portraits, including those of the Dukes of Burgundy. The amount of cloth involved had become considerable, and although chaperons seem to have normally been of a single colour at this period, a silk or damask one would have been a conspicuous sign of affluence. A Florentine chaperon of 1515 is recorded as using sixteen \"braccia\" of cloth, over ten yards (9 metres). \nChaperons are nearly always shown in art as plain-coloured at this period, but painting a patterned one would have been a daunting task.\n\nThe cornette now stretched nearly to the ground, and the patte had also grown slightly; both were now plain and undecorated by cutting or dagging at the edges. Bourrelets could be very large, or quite modest; some were clearly made round a hollow framework (a drawing survives of an Italian block for making them). The largest bourrelets are worn by very high ranking men around 1445–50. Sometimes they seem to be just a ring (the doughnut analogy is hard to resist) with an open centre, and sometimes the opening seems to be at least partly covered with fixed cloth. Because the bourrelets were usually the same shape all the way round, several different parts of it could be worn facing forward. Probably for this reason, chaperons are rarely seen adorned by badges or jewellery. There were now many ways of wearing, and indeed carrying, this most complex and adaptable of hats:\n\n\nExamples of these styles are shown in the illustrations to the article and in the Gallery section below.\n\nThe only surviving manuscript miniature by Rogier van der Weyden shows Philip the Good wearing a chaperon in style B. Next to him stands Chancellor Nicolas Rolin, using a less exuberant version of style B; only he has sufficient status to wear his chaperon indoors in the Duke's presence. Apart from the Bishop of Tournai, next to Rolin, all the other men are bare-headed, even Philip's young heir, despite the fact that several of them are high-ranking intimates who, like the Duke, wear the collar of the Order of the Golden Fleece. But as far as can be seen, all have hats. The man in grey seems to be carrying another sort of hat, but all the other ones visible are chaperons worn in style F, mostly with the cornettes to the front. The young Charles the Bold has his patte wrapped round the back of his neck, and the man on the extreme right has his bourrelet further than usual down his back, with the patte hanging down from it. Most of the chaperons are black, although the man in blue has one in salmon-pink; black was having one of its earliest periods of being the most fashionable colour at the time.\n\nThe chaperon never became quite this dominant in Italy or France; nor does it seem to have been worn as often by grand personages, although this is sometimes the case. There is a famous bust of Lorenzo de Medici wearing one, although in this he may be deliberately avoiding ostentatious dress (see gallery section). They are more characteristic of merchants and lawyers in these countries, for example in the images of Jean Fouquet from the mid-century. In England, on the other hand, almost all the non-royal members of the Order of the Garter are shown wearing them in their portraits in the \"Bruges Garter Book\" of 1430–1440 (British Library, MS Stowe 594). In the Holy Roman Empire, Spain and Portugal they were generally less common, & appeared lower down the social scale. They were apparently never worn by the clergy anywhere.\n\nChaperons were used in France and Burgundy to denote, by their colour, allegiance to a political faction. The factions themselves were also sometimes known as chaperons. During the captivity in England of King John II of France in 1356, the participants in a popular uprising in Paris against his son, the future Charles V, wore parti-coloured chaperons of red, for Paris, and blue for Navarre as they supported the claim to the French throne of King Charles the Bad of Navarre. In 1379 the ever-difficult citizens of Ghent rose up against Duke Philip the Bold of Burgundy wearing white chaperons. White was also worn in factional disturbances in Paris in 1413, by opponents of the Armagnacs, during one of King Charles VI's bouts of madness.\n\nThe chaperon was one of the items of male clothing that featured in the charges brought against Joan of Arc at her trial in 1431. This was apparently a hat rather than a hood, as she was stated to have taken it off in front of the Dauphin – this was cited as further damning evidence of her assuming male behaviours.\n\nIn 15th century Florence, cappucci were associated with republicans, as opposed to courtiers (see gallery). An advisor to the Medici told them in 1516 that they should get as many young men to wear \"the courtier's cap\" rather than the cappucci. Part of the connotation seems to arise because the chaperon was too complicated to be taken off on meeting one of higher rank (in Florence at any rate); it was merely touched or pushed back on the head slightly.\n\nIn addition to being featured in many Renaissance portraits by virtue of being the fashion of the day, the Italian cappuccio was of interest because the mazzocchio's shape made it a good subject for the developing art of perspective. The painter Paolo Uccello studied the perspective of the mazzocchio and incorporated it in some of his paintings (e.g. in \"The Counterattack of Michelotto da Cotignola at the Battle of San Romano\").\n\nApart from portraits, many of the best, and least formal, depictions of the chaperon in art come from paintings of the Nativity and other scenes of the early life of Christ. It is of course always winter, when the chaperon was most likely to be worn. Saint Joseph is especially useful, as it is never part of his depiction to be fashionably dressed, and it is part of his character in the period that he is often shown quite dishevelled (see examples below). The shepherds are the lower-class figures most often shown in a large scale in paintings of the period.\n\nBy about 1480 the chaperon was ceasing to be fashionable, but continued to be worn. The size of the bourrelet was reduced, and the patte undecorated. St Joseph could, by this stage, often be seen with the evolved form. By 1500 the evolved chaperon was definitely outmoded in Northern Europe, but the original hood form still remained a useful headgear for shepherds and peasants. By this time the evolved chaperon had become fixed in some forms of civilian uniforms for lawyers, academics and the members of some knightly orders, such as the Order of the Garter. In these uses it gradually shrank in size and often became permanently attached to the clothing underneath, effectively just as an ornament, in its present form, as a part of academic dress, called an epitoge. In Italy it remained more current, more as a dignified form of headgear for older men, until about the 1520s.\n\nIn a later related use of the term, the name \"chaperoon\" passed to certain little shields, or escutcheons, and other funeral devices, placed on the foreheads of horses that drew the hearses to processional funerals. These were called \"chaperoons\" or \"shafferoons\", as they were originally fastened to the \"chaperonnes\", or hoods, worn by those horses with their other coverings of state. (See also Frentera.)\n\n\n"}
{"id": "27074008", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27074008", "title": "Charlie Oliver (Australian footballer)", "text": "Charlie Oliver (Australian footballer)\n\nCharles Joseph Oliver (9 September 1874 – 29 December 1917) was an Australian rules footballer who played with Carlton in the Victorian Football League (VFL). A medical practitioner, he enlisted in the First AIF, and died while in service.\n\nThe son of Robert Oliver and Emily Ann Oliver, née Parkinson, Charles Joseph Oliver was born at Sofala, near Bathurst, in New South Wales, on 9 September 1874.\n\nHe married Ellen Frances Mahony (1870-1917) in 1905. They had two children, Norman Joseph Oliver (1906-), and Charles Patrick Oliver (1909-1956).\n\nHe commenced his medical studies at the University of Melbourne in 1892.\n\nOliver played his early football at Carlton Imperials.\n\nHe played just one VFL game for Carlton, against Melbourne at the MCG, on 7 July 1900 (round 10).\n\nSelected at centre half-forward to play against Melbourne's exceptional centre half-back Jack Purse, and replacing Carlton's regular centre half-forward Bill McNamara (in the one game that McNamara did not play for the 1900 season), Oliver kicked one goal in a soundly beaten team (Melbourne 9.14 (68) to Carlton's 5.3 (33).\n\nHe was a qualified medical practitioner, having been awarded his Medicinae Baccalaureus et Baccalaureus Chirurgiae (M.B. et Ch.B.) from Melbourne University, \"in absentia\", in March 1903, and having been entered into the Victorian medical register on 2 October 1903.\n\nIn 1905/1907 he was serving as the health officer for the Shire of Kerang at Quambatook in northern Victoria; and in the Shire of Berwick in 1912. At the time of his enlistment he was practising in Jeparit in Western Victoria.\n\nWhile serving with the Australian Army Medical Corps in World War I, Oliver was killed on his way back to the army camp in Seymour when he was thrown off a shying horse. He had never ridden the horse before; and, distressed by having to wait far too long for motor transport, he had borrowed the strange horse in his eagerness to return to camp.\n\nHe died of a cerebral haemorrhage two days later at the Base Military Hospital in Melbourne (just 12 weeks after his wife's death). He was given a military funeral.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "53452258", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53452258", "title": "Compartmentalized ciliogenesis", "text": "Compartmentalized ciliogenesis\n\nCompartmentalized ciliogenesis is the most common type of ciliogenesis where the cilium axoneme is formed separated from the cytoplasm by the ciliary membrane and a ciliary gate known as the transition zone.\n"}
{"id": "36186033", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36186033", "title": "DarwinTunes", "text": "DarwinTunes\n\nDarwinTunes is a research project into the use of natural selection to create music led by Bob MacCallum and Armand Leroi, scientists at Imperial College London. The project asks volunteers on the Internet to listen to automatically generated sound loops and rate them based on aesthetic preference. After the volunteers rate the loops on a five-point scale, software permits the highest rated loops to 'reproduce sexually' and populate the next generation of musical loops.\n\nIn a paper published in the Proceedings of the National Academies of Science, the DarwinTunes developers describe how their first experimental population derived from two randomly generated founding loops, allowed 100 generations of loops to evolve without any selection pressure before asking members of the public to rate the loops. The paper found that for the first 500 to 600 generations, aesthetic quality of the loops dramatically improved before reaching a stable equilibrium. They tested this using ratings by listeners and also by using sampling techniques used by music information retrieval technology—namely the Chordino and Rhythm Patterns algorithms, which measure the presence of chords used in Western music and the presence of rhythm respectively.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "22087750", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22087750", "title": "Digital inheritance", "text": "Digital inheritance\n\nDigital inheritance is the process of handing over (personal) digital media in the form of digital assets and rights to (human) beneficiaries. The process includes understanding what digital assets and rights exist and dealing with them after a person has died.\n\nDigital media play an increasingly important role in life. The media in which a digital inheritance resides can be owned by or independent of the deceased. In contrast with physical assets, digital assets are ephemeral and subject to constant change. Intellectual property and privacy, particularly post-mortem privacy, are additional factors. Digital inheritance may present a challenge for data heirs in its complexity and intricacy, and may have legal implications. With the average person having multiple online accounts, digital inheritance has become a complex issue.\n\nDigital inheritance is the process of handing over (personal) digital media in the form of digital assets and rights to (human) beneficiaries. Digital media play an increasingly important role in life and digital inheritance is what is left behind when a person dies. The media in which a digital inheritance resides can be owned by or independent of the deceased. In the former category are personal computers, mobile phones and other devices, and in the latter category are the online corporations such as Google, Apple, Microsoft and Facebook. In between is a grey area of forums, blogs, personal websites and online banking. In contrast with physical assets, digital assets are ephemeral and subject to constant change. Intellectual property and privacy are additional factors. Digital inheritance may present a challenge for data heirs in its complexity and intricacy. With the average person having 25 online accounts, digital inheritance has become a complex issue.\n\nThe term \"digital estate\" refers to digital media and rights that can be inherited. Digital assets are (in contrast to physical assets) more dynamic and ephemeral. When a person dies they leave behind a digital presence which can include online accounts, passwords, contracts, receipts, financial transactions, medical information or personal websites, and can involve banking, writing, images and social media. A digital estate is not only a person's online presence; it includes data stored digitally on personal technology such as a phone or computer.\n\nTwo principal issues arise over a person's digital estate: firstly, inheritability, those data or copyrights which belong to the deceased and can be inherited; secondly, access to the deceased person's digital estate by someone charged with dealing with it. A number of bodies have highlighted the difficulties that these and other issues may raise.\n\nDigital assets are those digital media that a person owns, or has rights to. They may include passwords, writing, images or other media, either online or offline. They may be sensitive, such as banking and medical information, or shared, such as with social media contacts or in forums. In contrast with physical assets, digital assets are always subject to change or deletion.\n\nA data heir is the person (or people) to whom a digital estate has been bequeathed or to whom rights have been assigned, either legally or informally. A data heir may be provided with clear instruction, may be faced with an un-sorted data flood with limited instructions, or may be left no instructions. Digital assets which involve contracts with service providers will have to be dealt with to prevent loss of access to data.\n\nPeople's need to be able to pass on their digital assets has given rise to several companies that specialize in providing consumers with ways to allow their heirs to inherit their digital assets after they die.\n\nThe practical approach to digital inheritance is to keep a regular backup of digital assets in a secure place and appoint a single person who will post-mortem deal with the assets. An up-to-date list of passwords to online accounts would be essential. One method of ensuring that a digital inheritance is handled legally and comprehensively is to use a digital estate planner.\n\nContracts with service providers may be automatically terminated (by the terms of service) when a customer dies. This may mean that there is no right for heirs to access that data. This is compounded by the fact that many digital assets are only granted with non-transferrable rights of use. For example, both Amazon and Apple only offer their digital products with single user rights. This means that digital products bought through such services can only be used by the purchaser, and cannot be passed on.\n\nSocial media services have policies and processes to confirm the identity and death of a deceased user.\n\nTwitter does not allow access to deceased user profiles. They will, however, deactivate an account for someone who is \"authorized to act on the behalf of the estate or with a verified immediate family member of the deceased\" provides the user's death certificate and their own government-issued ID.\n\nFacebook will also delete a deceased user's profile when requested by a verified family member. The request needs to provide proof of death such as death certificate. Alternatively, Facebook profiles can be memorialised. For this option, the request needs to include a link to an online proof of death, such as an online obituary.\n\nBoth Facebook and Twitter have been prey to hoax celebrity death announcements and memorial pages over the year, as well as being entangled in legal battles for the rights to access a departed loved one's social profiles, leading to the need for official action and processes.\n\nLinkedIn has a process for removing the profiles of deceased members. The request may be initiated by family members, co-workers, or other LinkedIn connections. Profile removal begins with an on-line request for selected information about the deceased including an on-line obituary or equivalent proof of death.\n\nThe need for forward planning of a digital inheritance has been increasingly in the media, and includes deciding what digital assets are heritable, who should inherit them, how they should be notified and how this process should be achieved. The process may include online memorialization.\n\nThere are several services that offer to keep multiple passwords, sending them to designated people after death. Some of these send the customer an email from time to time, prompting to confirm that that person is still alive, and failure to respond to multiple emails makes the service provider assume that the person is deceased, and will disclose the passwords as previously requested. A company may require two verifiers who both must confirm the death, as well as providing a death certificate, before any passwords will be disclosed.\n\nThere are at least one service providing passing of the social accounts and digital cryptocurrencies to the beneficiaries after ones passing. One example - DigiPulse, which allows users to connect their social accounts, file storage services and bitcoin wallets provided by Coinbase to one \"vault\". The upside of such approach is that no additional transfer of assets is necessary since transfer is happening on the connected service providers side, thus reducing risks to the minimum.\n\nFrom a legal point of view, digital inheritance requires that digital data forms part of the descendant's estate. The concept of universal succession means that heirs enter into the legal position regarding property rights of the testator by law. Such property rights as elements of the descendant’s estate may be enshrined in laws, such as in Switzerland. A digital estate may include outstanding debts and intellectual property rights as well as possession-based rights of the testator.\n\nThere is a distinction in law between ownership and right-to-use such as in software, digital music, film and books and there is legal precedent for denying resale or bequest of these. Only original digital data, archived on a medium of the service provider, falls into the decedent's estate, as far as the testator has had access and the digital data is not cleared with the testator's death.\n\nThe question of whether digital assets are subject to the same rights as physical assets, and whether digital assets in the public domain can be exclusively inherited is moot.\n\nA digital estate memorial employs a combination of digital technology, including online memorials, for the benefit of the descendant's estate using various forms of communication, data storage and messaging to continue the legacy of the deceased as years progress. This includes services designed to continue contact with descendants with instructions or greetings from the passed. Some organizations ensure that digital inheritance will be protected in the event new technology emerges over periods of generational succession. This would include new applications of the digital inheritance lifestream as technological systems develop.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "56848862", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56848862", "title": "Dispersive flies optimisation", "text": "Dispersive flies optimisation\n\nDispersive flies optimisation (DFO) is a bare-bones swarm intelligence algorithm which is inspired by the swarming behaviour of flies hovering over food sources. DFO is a simple optimiser which works by iteratively trying to improve a candidate solution with regard to a numerical measure that is calculated by a fitness function. Each member of the population, a fly or an agent, holds a candidate solution whose suitability can be evaluated by their fitness value. Optimisation problems are often formulated as either minimisation or maximisation problems.\n\nDFO was introduced with the intention of analysing a simplified swarm intelligence algorithm with the least number of tunable parameters and components. In the first work on DFO, this algorithm was compared against a few other existing swarm intelligence techniques using error, efficiency and diversity measures. It is shown that despite the simplicity of the algorithm, which only uses agents’ position vectors at time \"t\" to generate the position vectors for time \"t\" + 1, it exhibits a competitive performance. Since its inception, DFO has been used in a variety of applications including medical imaging and image analysis as well as data mining and machine learning.\n\nDFO bears many similarities with other existing continuous, population-based optimisers (e.g. particle swarm optimization and differential evolution). In that, the swarming behaviour of the individuals consists of two tightly connected mechanisms, one is the formation of the swarm and the other is its breaking or weakening. DFO works by facilitating the information exchange between the members of the population (the swarming flies). Each fly formula_1 represents a position in a \"d\"-dimensional search space: formula_2, and the fitness of each fly is calculated by the fitness function formula_3, which takes into account the flies' \"d\" dimensions: formula_4.\n\nThe pseudocode below represents one iteration of the algorithm:\nIn the algorithm above, formula_11 represents fly formula_12 at dimension formula_13 and time formula_14; formula_15 presents formula_16's best neighbouring fly in ring topology (left or right, using flies indexes), at dimension formula_13 and time formula_18; and formula_19 is the swarm's best fly. Using this update equation, the swarm's population update depends on each fly's best neighbour (which is used as the focus formula_20, and the difference between the current fly and the best in swarm represents the spread of movement, formula_21).\n\nOther than the population size formula_22, the only tunable parameter is the disturbance threshold formula_23, which controls the dimension-wise restart in each fly vector. This mechanism is proposed to control the diversity of the swarm.\n\nOther notable minimalist swarm algorithm is Bare bones particle swarms (BB-PSO), which is based on particle swarm optimisation, along with bare bones differential evolution (BBDE) which is a hybrid of the bare bones particle swarm optimiser and differential evolution, aiming to reduce the number of parameters. Alhakbani in her PhD thesis covers many aspects of the algorithms including several DFP applications in feature selection as well as parameter tuning.\n\nSome of the recent applications of DFO are listed below:\n\n"}
{"id": "551515", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=551515", "title": "Do not go gentle into that good night", "text": "Do not go gentle into that good night\n\n\"Do not go gentle into that good night\" is a poem in the form of a villanelle, and the most famous work of Welsh poet Dylan Thomas (1914–1953). Though first published in the journal \"Botteghe Oscure\" in 1951, it was written in 1947 when Thomas was in Florence with his family. It was published, along with other stories previously written, as part of Thomas' \"In Country Sleep, And Other Poems\" of 1952.\n\nIt has been suggested that the poem was written for Thomas' dying father, although he did not die until just before Christmas 1952. It has no title other than its first line, \"Do not go gentle into that good night\", a line that appears as a refrain throughout the poem along with its other refrain, \"Rage, rage against the dying of the light\".\n\nThe poem currently remains under copyright, although the text is available online.\n\nThe villanelle consists of five stanzas of three lines (tercets) followed by a single stanza of four lines (a quatrain) for a total of nineteen lines. It is structured by two repeating rhymes and two refrains: the first line of the first stanza serves as the last line of the second and fourth stanzas, and the third line of the first stanza serves as the last line of the third and fifth stanzas. The rhyme-and-refrain pattern of the villanelle can be schematized as AbA abA abA abA abA abAA where letters (\"a\" and \"b\") indicate the two rhyme sounds, upper case indicates a refrain (\"A\"), and superscript numerals ( and ) indicate Refrain 1 and Refrain 2.\n\nThe pattern is below set against the poem:\n\n"}
{"id": "1100001", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1100001", "title": "Einselection", "text": "Einselection\n\nIn quantum mechanics, einselections, short for \"environment-induced superselection\", is a name coined by Wojciech H. Zurek\nfor a process which is claimed to explain the appearance of wavefunction collapse and the emergence of classical descriptions of reality from quantum descriptions. In this approach, classicality is described as an emergent property induced in open quantum systems by their environments. Due to the interaction with the environment, the vast majority of states in the Hilbert space of a quantum open system become highly unstable due to entangling interaction with the environment, which in effect monitors selected observables of the system. After a decoherence time, which for macroscopic objects is typically many orders of magnitude shorter than any other dynamical timescale, a generic quantum state decays into an uncertain state which can be decomposed into a mixture of simple pointer states. In this way the environment induces effective superselection rules. Thus, einselection precludes stable existence of pure superpositions of pointer states. These 'pointer states' are stable despite environmental interaction. The einselected states lack coherence, and therefore do not exhibit the quantum behaviours of entanglement and superposition.\n\nAdvocates of this approach argue that since only quasi-local, essentially classical states survive the decoherence process, einselection can in many ways explain the emergence of a (seemingly) classical reality in a fundamentally quantum universe (at least to local observers). However, the basic program has been criticized as relying on a circular argument (e.g. R. E. Kastner ). So the question of whether the 'einselection' account can really explain the phenomenon of wave function collapse remains unsettled.\n\nZurek has defined einselection as follows \"Decoherence leads to einselection when the states of the environment formula_1 corresponding to different pointer states become orthogonal:\nformula_2\",\n\nEinselected pointer states are distinguished by their ability to persist in spite of the environmental monitoring and therefore are the ones in which quantum open systems are observed. Understanding the nature of these states and the process of their dynamical selection is of fundamental importance. This process has been studied first in a measurement situation: When the system is an apparatus whose intrinsic dynamics can be neglected, pointer states turn out to be eigenstates of the interaction Hamiltonian between the apparatus and its environment. In more general situations, when the system's dynamics is relevant, einselection is more complicated. Pointer states result from the interplay between self-evolution and environmental monitoring.\n\nTo study einselection, an operational definition of pointer states has been introduced.\nThis is the \"predictability sieve\" criterion, based on an intuitive idea: \"Pointer states\" can be defined as the ones which become minimally entangled with the environment in the course of their evolution. The predictability sieve criterion is a way to quantify this idea by using the following algorithmic procedure: For every initial pure state formula_3, one measures the entanglement generated dynamically between the system and the environment by computing the entropy:\nor some other measure of predictability from the reduced density matrix of the system formula_5 (which is initially formula_6). \nThe entropy is a function of time and a functional of the initial state formula_7. Pointer states are obtained by minimizing formula_8 over formula_7 and demanding that the answer be robust when varying the time formula_10.\n\nThe nature of pointer states has been investigated using the predictability sieve criterion only for a limited number of examples. Apart from the already mentioned case of the measurement situation (where pointer states are simply eigenstates of the interaction Hamiltonian) the most notable example is that of a quantum Brownian particle coupled through its position with a bath of independent harmonic oscillators. In such case pointer states are localized in phase space, even though the interaction Hamiltonian involves the position of the particle. Pointer states are the result of the interplay between self-evolution and interaction with the environment and turn out to be coherent states.\n\nThere is also a quantum limit of decoherence: When the spacing between energy levels of the system is large compared to the frequencies present in the environment, energy eigenstates are einselected nearly independently of the nature of the system-environment coupling.\n\nThere has been significant work on correctly identifying the pointer states in the case of a massive particle decohered by collisions with a fluid environment, often known as \"collisional decoherence\". In particular, Busse and Hornberger have identified certain solitonic wavepackets as being unusually stable in the presence of such decoherence.\n\n"}
{"id": "18206333", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18206333", "title": "End-Ediacaran extinction", "text": "End-Ediacaran extinction\n\nEvidence suggesting that a mass extinction occurred at the end of the Ediacaran period, , includes:\n\nDuring the Ediacaran period, two main groups of organisms are found in the fossil record: the \"Ediacara biota\" of soft-bodied organisms, preserved by microbial mats; and calcifying organisms such as \"Cloudina\" and \"Namacalathus\", which had a carbonate skeleton. Because \"both \"these groups disappear abruptly at the end of the Ediacaran period, , their disappearance cannot simply represent the closure of a preservational window, as had previously been suspected.\n\nThe fossil record of the earliest Cambrian, just after the Ediacaran period, shows a sudden increase in burrowing activity and diversity. However, the Cambrian explosion of animals that gave rise to body fossils did not happen instantaneously. This implies that the \"explosion\" did not represent animals \"replacing\" the incumbent organisms, and pushing them gradually to extinction; rather, the data are more consistent with a radiation of animals to fill in vacant niches, left empty as an extinction cleared out the pre-existing fauna.\n\nThe theory that all Ediacarans became extinct at the start of the Cambrian is disproven if any post-Ediacaran survivors are found. Organisms from the lower Cambrian, such as \"Thaumaptilon\", were once thought to be Ediacarans, but this hypothesis no longer has many adherents. One possible Ediacaran survivor whose status is still open to scrutiny is \"Ediacaria booleyi\", a purported holdfast structure known from the \"upper\" Cambrian. If this does turn out to be a true Ediacaran, the biota cannot have disappeared completely. Disbelievers have claimed that the fossils don't actually have a biological origin, which doesn't seem to be the case—evidence is mounting to suggest that it \"is\" an organism (or at least of biological origin, perhaps a microbial colony), just not one that is related to the Ediacara biota.\n\nSome organisms clearly survived the extinction since life on Earth has continued. However, very few organisms are known from both sides of the Ediacaran-Cambrian boundary. One such organism is the agglutinated foramanifera \"Platysolenites\". \"Swartpuntia\" is one well known late Ediacaran vendobiont, which survived into the earliest Cambrian. Cambrian \"Erytholus\" is a similar sandstone cast to Ediacaran \"Ventogyrus\". Ordovician and Silurian \"Rutgersella\" and Devonian \"Protonympha\" have been interpreted as surviving vendobionts, comparable with Ediacaran \"Dickinsonia\" and \"Spriggina\", respectively.\n\nA negative excursion—a geochemical signal often associated with mass extinctions—is observed at the end of the Ediacaran period.\n\nThis period is reflected in the geological record by an increase in black shale deposition, representing global anoxia. This may be related to global changes in oceanic circulation.\n"}
{"id": "51458021", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51458021", "title": "Evelyn Hartley", "text": "Evelyn Hartley\n\nEvelyn Grace Hartley (born November 21, 1937) was an American missing teenager from La Crosse County, Wisconsin, who disappeared on October 24, 1953. Her disappearance sparked a search involving 2,000 people. In the first year following her disappearance, investigators questioned more than 3,500 people. , no trace of her has been found.\n\nOn October 24, 1953, Viggo Rasmussen, a professor at La Crosse State College (now University of Wisconsin–La Crosse), hired Evelyn Hartley, the daughter of a fellow professor, to take care of his 20-month old daughter. That evening, her father, Richard Hartley, called the Rasmussen house several times after his daughter failed to check in as planned at 8:30 PM; he received no answer. Concerned, he drove to the house. When he arrived, the doors were locked, the lights and radio were on, and items were scattered all over the house. The living room furniture had been moved around to different places, as were Hartley's school books. He found her shoes in different rooms, one shoe upstairs, and one downstairs. He also found his daughter's broken glasses upstairs. Hartley did not find his daughter in the house.\n\nRichard Hartley also found every room in the house locked, except one in the basement that was located at the back of the house. An opened window there was missing a screen, and the screen was found leaning against an outside wall. He also found a short stepladder belonging to the homeowner positioned at the opened window. Pry marks were found on some windows, and footprints had been found in areas of the house. Blood was found both inside the house and in the yard, with bloody hand prints about 100 feet away in a garage and in a nearby house. The child Hartley had been caring for was found asleep and unharmed.\n\nPolice believed someone took Hartley through the yard, but dropped her on the ground before carrying her further. They used dogs to pick up her scent in a trail that led for two blocks, ending at Coulee Drive. Police thought that she was most likely put into a vehicle there and driven away. The police were told by one neighbor that they had seen a car repeatedly driving around the neighborhood, and another person who lived nearby claimed that they had heard screams an hour earlier. The witness thought it was just children playing. Two days after the incident, Ed Hofer, a local resident, told police that while driving his vehicle, he was almost hit by a Buick that was speeding in a westerly direction. Inside the vehicle he says that he saw two men and a girl; one man was driving and the other was in the back with the girl. He didn't think anything about it, thinking the threesome was just going to a game.\n\nSeveral days later, various items of clothing including underpants, a brassiere, shoes, jeans, and a jacket, many of which were stained with blood, were found in different areas. Blood found on the jacket matched Hartley's blood type.\n\nOver 1,000 members of the community participated in search operations in October 1953. Searchers included law enforcement officers, the National Guard, Boy Scouts, and La Crosse State College students and faculty. Civil Air Patrol and Air Force planes and helicopters were also used in the search. A vehicle inspection program was also undertaken with the intent of searching every vehicle in the county. Gas station attendants were asked to check cars for blood stains. Recent graves were reopened to determine if her remains were placed with a recent burial.\n\nIn May 1954, mass lie detector tests were conducted on La Crosse-area high school boys in an attempt to find more information about Hartley's disappearance. Authorities planned to test 1,750 students and faculty, but the testing was controversial and was halted after around 300 were tested.\n\nAfter his arrest, murderer Ed Gein was considered a suspect in Hartley's disappearance since he was visiting a relative a few blocks away from Rasmussen's neighborhood at the time. However, police found no trace of Hartley's remains during a search of his property. Gein denied involvement in the disappearance and passed two lie detector tests. In November 1957, authorities announced that Gein had been cleared of any connection to the disappearances of Hartley and Georgia Weckler, an 8 year old that disappeared in 1947. After being committed to a mental institution, Gein was later declared insane, and died in 1984, yet some still consider him a suspect.\n\nHartley's kidnapping led to one of the biggest searches in the history of Wisconsin. Public efforts to find her have included the Charley Project and the Soddy-Daisy-Roots Project. A reward fund established in the immediate aftermath of the event reached $6,600 (equivalent to $ in ). Hartley's parents moved to Portland, Oregon in the 1970s, and are now both deceased.\n\nIn 2004, a man named Mel Williams came forward with a tape of a conversation he recorded at a bar years previously. Although Williams' goal was to record the band that was playing, the conversation between two men was unintentionally recorded as well. One of the men implicated himself in the Hartley disappearance on the tape. Also implicated was another man who Williams gathered committed suicide shortly after the crime. On the tape, the man implicated reported that he took Hartley to La Farge, Wisconsin, where she was murdered and buried. The tape ended when the implicated man told Williams to stop recording. Williams reported that he could not remember what happened after the recorder was shut off. The two men implicated on the tape are now deceased. Captain Mitch Brohmer of the La Crosse Police Department responded to these tapes by saying, \"We'll look into it\". No further developments were ever made.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1944972", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1944972", "title": "External fertilization", "text": "External fertilization\n\nExternal fertilization is a male organism’s sperm fertilizing a female organism’s egg outside of the female’s body.\nInternal fertilization, on the other hand, is the occurrence of internal insemination as the mode of combining sperm and egg. External fertilization occurs in water or a moist area because it gives the sperm external mobility to get to the egg. While in the water, the sperm and ova can shed simultaneously to fertilize the egg. The release of eggs and sperm into the water is known as spawning. When females spawn, they release a batch of eggs into a spot of their choice or just into the water, as in bottom dwelling or sessile species and all of the males start to release sperm that are in close proximity. Within vertebrates, it is the amphibians and fish that use external fertilization. When it comes to invertebrates, most are benthic, sessile, or benthic sessile combined animals such as coral, sea anemones, and tube dwelling polychaetes. The benthic zone is the lowest level of the ocean where organisms called benthos reside. An organism that is sessile does not have the ability to move or be mobile. Benthic marine plants such as algae also go through external fertilization to reproduce. Overall, environmental factors and the timing have a heavy influence over the success of external fertilization.In external fertilization some of the eggs laid by the animals gets wasted due to huge rainfall, floods etc.\n\nSexual selection may not seem to occur during external fertilization, but there are ways it actually can. The two types of external fertilizers are nest builders and broadcast spawners. For female nest builders, the main choice is the location of where to lay her eggs. A female can choose a nest close to the male she wants to fertilize her eggs, but there is no guarantee that the preferred male will fertilize any of the eggs. Broadcast spawners have a very weak selection, due to the randomness of releasing gametes. To look into the effect of female choice on external fertilization, an in vitro sperm competition experiment was performed. The results concluded that there was a decreased importance of sperm number, but increased the importance of the sperm velocity, thus changing the outcome of sperm competition. The ovarian fluid also increased the paternity for the preferred male because they release fewer and faster sperm. The success of a male fertilizing an egg relies on the ability of a male’s sperm to outcompete other sperm that is looking to fertilize the same egg. Sperm chemotaxis is the use of chemical signals to give sperm the ability to navigate an egg and is a huge contributor to reproductive success.\nBenthic sessile animals that make up the majority of invertebrates using external fertilization rely on ambient water motion to bring the sperm and eggs together. Other invertebrates that externally fertilize are organisms like the sea urchin, are confined to shallow burrows on exposed shores. Turbulent flows in the surf zone also create a transport of gametes. Hydrodynamic conditions and gamete properties control the efficiency of fertilization because they influence the rate at which the water mixes. The only dilemma with turbulence is the possibility of dilution of sperm and egg because of over mixing. Rapid mixing can cause a lower probability to fertilize. Sessile adult staged animals commonly produce gametes at the same times, also known as a synchronized release of gametes, for external fertilization in the water column. This is helpful because of the lack of mobility these organisms share. They also can rely on turbulent mixing and sperm mobility to enhance the chances of fertilization.\n\nThe presence of food, resources, favorable environmental conditions, and the lack of predators are thought of when thinking of survival of the next generation. When the female is producing eggs, they perform predator satiation, which is when multiple females will release gametes in a mass reproductive event. The Great Barrier Reef is known for having a “mass spawn.” This occurs the week after the full moon in October. This mass reproductive event is given by reef forming corals, which perform a synchronized release of gametes in one evening from dusk to midnight. Up to 130 species release gametes during this time. In some cases, fertilization can take place on a spawning animal’s surface and when the animals are in the turbulent wake. Although fertilization is usually thought of as a short-term process, there is the possibility of gametes being retained on the surface of an animal for an extended period of time. In order to release an egg or sperm over time, clumps are formed that float in the water column. This allows for a variation in locations and time differences of fertilization taking place by the same invertebrate.\n\nThe earliest amphibians were all internal fertilizers. It wasn’t until 300 million years ago that the Anura (early internal fertilizer) and Caudata (early external fertilizer) orders had begun. Most anurans now externally fertilize. Anurans are the amphibians lacking a tail such as frogs and toads. Anurans are commonly used as a model organism for amphibians, because of the large, easy to manipulate eggs, fast developmental rate, high fecundity rate, no parental involvement, and external fertilization. Males will congregate near a lake or pond and establish calling stations. Females approach the area and listen to all of the different male calls, and then continue to move towards the mate she chooses. This is the anuran’s sexual selection. It has been concluded that females prefer a male with a more attractive call, which is also the larger male. Copulation occurs when a male anuran hops onto the back of a female. They then move to a spot near water to simultaneously release their sperm and eggs. Other males in the area can also release sperm onto the eggs to also attempt to fertilize the eggs. If the female does not want to reproduce with the male that jumps onto her back, she will wait until the male leaves or move to a new location. Sperm released into the water must be in close proximity, get to the egg first, and then enter the gel layer of the egg to have the best chance of fertilizing. When the anurans are not close to eggs, they sometimes release their sperm into oocyte containing foam nests, or terrestrial breeders go right to the gel coat of the oocyte to release their sperm. Over the course of a breeding season, males can copulate numerous times by releasing sperm anywhere he finds unfertilized eggs or encounters a female who is/wants to spawn. Females, however, can only release eggs once per breeding season. Releasing sperm directly into the water increases sperm competition through agonistic behavior and spawning in groups. This has been tested, with good evidence associated with a larger sperm number and testes size. Smaller testes size and a slower sperm velocity were seen with the anurans that released the sperm into the foam nests instead of into open water. To further increase sperm competition, there is a larger thickness to an anuran oocyte gel, specifically the green tree frog. Anuran sperm also have high longevity and osmotic tolerance compared to fresh water fish.\nThe Caudata order contains all of the salamanders and newts, amphibians that have tails. Within this, the only subgroups that externally fertilize are Cryptobranchidae (giant salamanders) Sirenidae, and Hynobiidae. The females release egg sacs onto stones or branches and the male later hovers over the eggs to release the sperm to them. Males are seen to be very protective over the eggs and may continue to hover over the eggs after sperm release to decrease sperm competition. In some cases, males may even latch onto the females while they lay their eggs to ensure that they fertilize them first. Other times there may be numerous males surrounding a single sac of eggs, creating scramble competition. Cryptobranchid sperm is seen to have higher longevity. This is about 600 times greater than in freshwater fish, but not even close to as high as anurans.\n\nSalmon, cod, trout, and char are all examples of the fishes that externally fertilize. The female and male both release their gametes into the water, where they diffuse together and fertilize. On top of the sperm locating the oocyte and penetrating the gel layer, it must also infiltrate the mycropyle. If there is turbulent water or even in open, calm water, the closer fish that releases sperm has the higher chance of fertilizing the eggs. If sperm is released too early, it can become to dilute or die before it ever reaches the eggs. If sperm is released too late, there is a higher chance that a different fish’s sperm has already reached the eggs. Also, the faster the speed of the sperm, as well as the number of sperm will increase the chances of fertilization. There are instances where males will create habitats in an attempt to monopolize females and increase his chance of fertilizing the eggs.\n\nFishes can be iteroparous, and spawn more than once, but there are some who only spawn once before death, known as semelparous. Within iteroparous fish, they usually give no parental care with external fertilization. The sperm present in male fish are immotile while in testes and in seminal fluid, and the fertilization environment determines when the sperm become motile. In salmon, a decrease of potassium in fresh water will initiate the motility of the sperm. A decrease in osmolality after spawning in fresh water makes a cyprinid fish’s sperm motile.\n\n"}
{"id": "13875356", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13875356", "title": "Gaius Caecilius Metellus Caprarius", "text": "Gaius Caecilius Metellus Caprarius\n\nGaius Caecilius Metellus Caprarius (b. ca. 160 BC) was a consul of the Roman Republic in 113 BC with Gnaeus Papirius Carbo. He served under Scipio Aemilianus in Numantia around 133 BC. He was praetor in 117 BC. His proconsulship in Thrace in 112–111 BC earned him a triumph. He was censor in 102 BC with his cousin, Quintus Caecilius Metellus Numidicus.\n\nThe Caecilii Metelli were an extremely prominent family in the late Roman Republic. They were conservative aristocrats, though members of the plebeian gens Caecilia.\n\nCaprarius was the youngest son of Quintus Caecilius Metellus Macedonicus. Macedonicus was praetor in 148 BC and consul in 143 BC. He received the command in Macedonia, where he defeated a pretender to the throne named Andriscus. He received a triumph and the cognomen 'Macedonicus' for this victory. He was censor in 131 BC. Macedonicus was a conservative aristocrat and opposed Tiberius Gracchus and Gaius Gracchus, who went around the Senate and based their power on the people.\n\nCaprarius' eldest brother was Quintus Caecilius Metellus Balearicus. He went to Thessaly to obtain grain as aedile around 130 BC. He was praetor by 126 BC and consul in 123 BC. Balearicus was given the command to defeat the inhabitants of the Balearic Islands, who practiced piracy. He was victorious and triumphed in 121 BC, receiving the cognomen 'Balearicus'. He was censor in 120 BC.\n\nCaprarius' second brother was Lucius Caecilius Metellus Diadematus. He was given the cognomen 'Diadematus' because of the bandage he wore on a head wound. He was consul in 117 BC, and promoted infrastructural improvement in Italy A conservative aristocrat like his father, he probably opposed Gaius Gracchus.\n\nThe third brother was Marcus Caecilius Metellus. He was mint master in 127 BC, praetor by 118 BC, and consul in 115 BC. Marcus was given the proconsular command in Corsica and Sardinia from 114 BC to 111 BC, and triumphed for his victory there.\n\nCaprarius had two sisters, both named Caecilia Metella. One married Gaius Servilius Vatia, who was praetor in 114 BC. The other married Publius Cornelius Scipio Nasica Serapio, who was consul in 111 BC.\n\nCaprarius had three sons.\nOne was Quintus Caecilius Metellus Creticus, who was praetor in 74 BC and consul in 69 BC. He was pontifex from 73 BC until his death. Creticus was given the proconsular command against the island of Crete, which was aiding Mithridates and infested with pirates. He defeated the island and triumphed for it in 62 BC, receiving the cognomen 'Creticus'.\n\nAnother son was Lucius Caecilius Metellus. He was praetor in 71 BC. He succeeded Gaius Verres as governor of Sicily in 70 BC. He died in office as consul in 68 BC.\n\nMarcus Caecilius Metellus was Caprarius' third son. He was praetor and president of the extortion court in 69 BC.\n\nCaprarius' daughter, Caecilia Metella, was the wife of Gaius Verres. Verres was the governor of Sicily from 73 BC to 71 BC. He was also the defendant on trial in Cicero's speech \"Against Verres.\"\n\nCaprarius was censor in 102 BC with his cousin, Quintus Caecilius Metellus Numidicus. The purpose of the censors was to monitor the roll of the Senate and remove people from it when necessary. The office of censor was not held every year as others, such as the office of consul, were.\n\nNumidicus was the son of Lucius Caecilius Metellus Calvus. Numidicus was possibly mint master in 117 or 116 BC, he was praetor by 112 BC, and he was consul in 109 BC.\n\nBoth Caprarius and Numidicus were conservative aristocrats, in keeping with their family history. In their censorship, Numidicus tried unsuccessfully to expel Lucius Appuleius Saturninus and Gaius Servilius Glaucia from the Senate. Saturninus was a popularis, a politician that drew his power from the people. He was of plebeian stock. He was removed from his position as quaestor in 105 or 104 BC for being an opponent of the Senate. He proposed a law to reduce grain prices that received the support of Glaucia.\n\nGlaucia was from a patrician family, but he, like Saturninus, was a popularis. Both had the support of Gaius Marius. Glaucia collaborated with Saturninus against the Senate as tribune in 101 BC and his praetorship in 100 BC. Glaucia and Saturninus conspired to make Glaucia consul and Saturninus tribune in 99 BC. They used violence in an attempt to reach their goal, and Saturninus murdered Glaucia's competitor for the consulship. Glaucia and Saturninus were imprisoned in the Curia by Marius at the Senate's behest. They were both murdered by an angry mob.\n\nTo get revenge for the attempted expulsion from the Senate, Saturninus tried to force Numidicus to swear acceptance of a law that gave land to Marius' veterans. Numidicus refused and went into exile. Caprarius fought for Numidicus' return in 99 BC.\n\n\nBroughton, T. Robert. \"Magistrates of the Roman Republic Vol. 1.\" New York: American Philological Association. 1951. 535.\n\nBroughton, T. Robert. \"Magistrates of the Roman Republic Vol. 2.\" New York: American Philological Association. 1952. 71, 122, 137.\n\nSalazar, Christine F. \"Brill's New Pauly: Encyclopedia of the Ancient World Vol 1.\" Boston: Brill Leiden. 2003. 903.\n\nSalazar, Christine F. \"Brill's New Pauly: Encyclopedia of the Ancient World Vol 2.\" Boston: Brill Leiden. 2003. 874-879.\n\nSalazar, Christine F. \"Brill's New Pauly: Encyclopedia of the Ancient World Vol 13.\" Boston: Brill Leiden. 2003. 903.\n"}
{"id": "22576995", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22576995", "title": "HMS Epervier (1812)", "text": "HMS Epervier (1812)\n\nHMS \"Epervier\" was an 18-gun of the Royal Navy built by Ross at Rochester, England, and launched on 2 December 1812. captured her in 1814 and took her into service. USS \"Epervier\" disappeared in 1815 while carrying dispatches reporting the signing of a treaty with the Dey of Algiers.\n\n\"Epervier\" was commissioned in January 1813 under Commander Richard Walter Wales. On 20 August 1813, \"Epervier\" captured the schooner \"Lively\", which was sailing from St. Thomas to Halifax. Then one month later, on 20 September, she captured \"Active\". Under her master, E. Altberg, \"Active\", of 390 tons (bm), was sailing from Gottenburg to Boston with a cargo of iron. Three days later, \"Epervier\", and captured \"Resolution\".\n\nOn 5 October \"Epervier\" and captured the American privateer, \"Portsmouth Packet\". She had previously been \"Liverpool Packet\", a noted Nova Scotian privateer, and returned to successful privateering under the \"Liverpool Packet\" name after the British recaptured her. At the time of her capture, \"Portsmouth Packet\" was armed with five guns, carried a crew of 45, and had sailed from Portsmouth the previous day. Almost a month later, on 3 November, \"Epervier \" and \"Fantome\" captured \"Peggy\" of 91 tons (bm), W. O. Fuller, master, which was sailing from George's River to Boston with a cargo of timber and wood.\n\nOn 23 February 1814 \"Epervier\" was cruising off Cape Sable, when she captured the American privateer-brig \"Alfred\", of Salem. \"Alfred\", which mounted 16 long 9-pounders and had a crew, variously described, as being of 94 or 108 men, surrendered without a fight. (The British 38-gun frigate , under the command of Captain Clotworthy Upton, was in sight about to leeward.)\n\nWhile returning to Halifax with \"Alfred\", Wales found out that some of his crew were plotting with the prisoners from \"Alfred\" to take over one or both vessels and escape to the United States. Wales continued on to Halifax, where he arrived two days later, having sailed through a gale to do so. There he notified his uncle, Admiral Sir John Borlase Warren, the commanding officer of the station, that he didn't trust his crew. Warren dismissed Wales' concerns and she sailed on 3 March with the same crew. She and the schooner sailed with a small convoy bound to Bermuda and the West Indies. Before she left Halifax, Wales exchanged her two 6-pounder bow chasers and the carronade for her launch for two 18-pounder carronades.\n\nOn 14 April \"Epervier\" sailed from Port Royal, Jamaica, calling at Havana, where she took on board $118,000 in specie. She left Havana on 25 April bound for Halifax. The 22-gun sloop-of-war captured \"Epervier\" off Cape Canaveral, Florida, on 29 April, during the War of 1812. \"Epervier\"s crew consisted mainly of invalids from the hospital, giving her the worst crew of any ship on her station. In the engagement \"Epervier\" suffered eight killed and 15 wounded, as well as extensive damage. \n\nDespite the extensive damage inflicted in this engagement, John B. Nicolson, \"Peacock\"s First Lieutenant, was able to sail her to Savannah, Georgia. Following repairs, the US Navy took her into service as USS \"Epervier\".\n\n\"Epervier\", under Master Commandant John Downes, sailed to join the Mediterranean Squadron under Commodore Stephen Decatur, Jr., whose mission was to stop the harassment of American shipping by the Dey of Algiers. \"Epervier\" joined with , , and in the Battle off Cape Gata on 17 June 1815, which led to the capture of the 44 (or 46)-gun frigate \"Meshuda\" (or \"Mashuda\"). \"Epervier\" fired nine broadsides into \"Meshuda\" to induce her to surrender, after \"Guerriere\" had already crippled the Algerian vessel.\n\nTwo days later \"Epervier\" and three of the smaller vessels of the squadron captured the Algerine brig of war \"Estedio\", of twenty-two guns and 180 men, at the Battle off Cape Palos. After the conclusion of peace with Algiers, Decatur transferred Downes to \"Guerriere\".\n\nAfter the Dey signed a treaty, Decatur chose \"Epervier\", under Lieutenant John T. Shubrick, \"Guerriere\"s former first lieutenant, to carry a copy of the treaty and some captured flags to the United States. Captain Lewis, and Lieutenants Neale and John Yarnall, came on board as passengers. \"Epervier\" sailed through the Straits of Gibraltar on 14 July 1815 and was never heard from again. She may have encountered a hurricane reported in the Atlantic on 9 August 1815. In all, she was carrying 132 sailors and 2 marines.\n\n"}
{"id": "14915801", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14915801", "title": "HMS Fly (1776)", "text": "HMS Fly (1776)\n\nHMS \"Fly\" was a \"Swan\" class ship sloop of the Royal Navy and was launched on 14 September 1776. She performed mainly convoy escort duties during the French Revolutionary Wars, though she did capture three privateers. She foundered and was lost with all hands early in 1802.\n\nBetween 1766 and 1780 the Admiralty had 25 vessels of her class built to a design by Sir John Williams. On 1 August 1775 the Admiralty ordered her built at Sheerness Dockyard, and she was the sixth one ordered. Her keel was laid in January 1776, she was launched on 14 September, and completed on 19 October.\n\nThe \"Swan\" class sloops were unusually attractive for the class of vessel. Not only did they have sleek hull lines but they also carried an unusual amount of decoration for their size. They were built just before the Admiralty issued orders that all vessels (especially lesser rates and unrated vessels) have minimal decoration and carvings to save on costs, due to the seemingly ever-continuing war with France and other nations.\n\n\"Fly\" was commissioned under Commander Edward Garner in July 1776 and he remained in command until 1778. In December 1776 she sailed for the Leeward Islands, though by 1779 she was in the North Sea. In October 1779 Commander Billy Douglas took command for the North Sea. His replacement, c. August 1781, was Timothy Kelly.\n\nOn 6 September 1782 \"Fly\" encountered and captured \"L'Escamoteur\", a 14-gun French privateer. The privateer was accompanied by two vessels that she had taken as prizes, a merchant brig and a sloop. \"Fly \" escorted all three vessels to Yarmouth where they were transferred to Admiralty control.\n\n\"Fly\" was paid off in May 1783.\n\nIn June 1794, five days after the capture of Port-au-Prince, she came under the command of Richard Hussey Moubray, previously first lieutenant of , who had assisted in the landing of troops. Moubray then took Captain Rowley and Lieutenant Colonel Whitelocke, who were carrying the dispatches, to England.\n\nIn December 1794 \"Fly\" escorted the Duke of York from Helvoetsluys to Harwich. Later, she took part in the seizure of Dutch ships in Plymouth Sound: two line-of-battle ships, one frigate, two sloops-of-war, nine East Indiamen and about sixty other vessels. Afterwards, \"Fly\" escorted merchant vessels in the Channel and between Britain and Gibraltar.\n\nOn 22 August 1796 \"Fly\" captured the French privateer \"Furet\" some seven leagues off Portland. \"Furet\" was a small privateer armed only with five swivels and carried a crew of 27 men.\n\nIn January 1796 Commander Henry S. Butt took command, followed in May 1797 by Commander William Cumberland, and in November 1798 by Commander Zachary Mudge. On 4 February 1799 \"Fly\" pursued and captured the French privateer cutter \"Gleneur\" off Portland. \"Gleneur\" carried six 4-pounder guns and 32 men and was under the command of Emanuel Tone. She had sailed from Cherbourg the night before, where British frigates had chased her two days earlier. On her previous cruise \"Gleneur\" had successfully cut out of Torbay \"Anna\" of Hull, \"Hopwell\" of Lisbon, and \"Lucy\" of Whitehaven. \"Hopewell\" was later recaptured.\n\nOn 21 May 1800 \"Fly\" arrived at Portsmouth from Halifax with dispatches from the Duke of Kent. She made the crossing in three weeks, having narrowly escaped hitting an immense island of ice on the edge of the Newfoundland Banks. \"Fly\" had been sailing in a thick fog at dusk when lookouts suddenly spotted the iceberg about 120 yards (\"a cable's length\") in front of her. \"Fly\" was moving at about nine knots but a swift turn of the helm enabled her to clear the south end of the iceberg by half a cable's length.\n\n\"Fly\" sailed on 28 June 1800 and returned to Portsmouth on 7 July together with . They brought with them a Prussian vessel carrying a cargo of salt. \"Fly\" then sailed again, returning on 26 July from a cruise off Cherbourg. Two days later she set off again for Cherbourg.\n\nGales forced her to quit Cherbourg. She cleared La Hogue with difficulty but nevertheless captured the French privateer cutter \"Trompeur\" there. \"Trompeur\" had been out two days and taken nothing.\n\nIn November 1800 \"Fly\" came under the command of Commander Thomas Duvall. She sailed from Portsmouth on 7 January 1801 with a convoy of 13 vessels for the coast of Africa. On the way they encountered a French squadron of five sail of the line and two frigates, leading \"Fly\" to order the convoy to scatter. On 19 March a letter arrived in Plymouth from \"Fly\" reporting that ten of the vessels had made it safely to Africa. (The \"Naval Chronicle\" reported that the three others had aborted their voyage, returning safely to Britain.) \"Fly\" herself returned on 20 August.\n\nFive days later, Mr William McLeod, \"Fly\"s purser faced a court martial on board in Portsmouth Harbour. The charges were drunkenness, neglect of duty, and failure to supply \"Fly\" with stores. The court martial board found McLeod guilty and ordered him dismissed from the Navy.\n\nOn 17 September 1801 \"Fly\" left Portsmouth as escort to a convoy for Newfoundland. She foundered and was lost with all hands off Cape Flattery, Newfoundland in January 1802.\n\nThe original plans of the \"Fly\" still exist. Victory Models, Euromodels, and Amati all offer 1:64 scale historically accurate wooden model kits based upon the plans.\n\nCitations\n\nReferences\n\n"}
{"id": "7582544", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7582544", "title": "Higher consciousness", "text": "Higher consciousness\n\nHigher consciousness is the consciousness of a higher Self, transcendental reality, or God. It is \"the part of the human being that is capable of transcending animal instincts\". The concept was significantly developed in German Idealism, and is a central notion in contemporary popular spirituality. However, it has ancient roots, dating back to the Bhagvad Gita and Indian Vedas.\n\nFichte distinguished the finite or empirical ego from the pure or infinite ego. The activity of this \"pure ego\" can be discovered by a \"higher intuition\".\n\nFichte (1762-1814) was one of the founding figures of German idealism, which developed from the theoretical and ethical writings of Immanuel Kant. His philosophy forms a bridge between the ideas of Kant and those of the German Idealist Georg Wilhelm Friedrich Hegel.\n\nAccording to Michael Whiteman, Fichte's philosophical system \"is a remarkable western formulation of eastern mystical teachings (of Advaita).\"\n\nIn 1812 Schopenhauer started to use the term \"the better consciousness\", a consciousness\nAccording to Yasuo Kamata, Schopenhauer's idea of \"the better consciousness\" finds its origin in Fichte's idea of a \"higher consciousness\" (\"höhere Bewusstsein\") or \"higher intuition\", and also bears resemblance to Schelling's notion of \"intellectual intuition\". According to Schopenhauer himself, his notion of a \"better consciousness\" was different from Schelling's notion of \"intellectual intuition\", since Schelling's notion required intellectual development of the understanding, while his notion of a \"better consciousness\" was \"like a flash of insight, with no connection to the understanding.\"\n\nAccording to Schopenhauer,\n\nAlmost all religions have a concept of higher consciousness in at least some sects. It was first mentioned in recorded human history in the Sanskrit Hindu texts, the Upanishads.\n\nFriedrich Schleiermacher (1768-1834) made a distinction between lower and higher (self)consciousness. In Schleirmacher's theology, self-consciousness contains \"a feeling that points to the presence of an absolute other, God, as actively independent of the self and its 'world'.\" For Schleiermacher, \"all particular manifestations of piety share a common essence, the sense of dependency on God as the outside 'infinite'.\" The feeling of dependency, or \"God-consciousness\", is a higher form of consciousness. This consciousness is not \"God himself\", since God would then no longer be \"an infinite infinite, but a finite infinite, a mere projection of consciousness.\"\n\nFor Schleiermacher, the lower consciousness is \"the animal part of mankind\", which includes basic sensations such as hunger, thirst, pain and pleasure, as well as basic drives and pleasures, and higher consciousness is \"the part of the human being that is capable of transcending animal instincts\", and the \"point of contact with God\". Bunge describes this as \"the essence of being human\".\n\nWhen this consciousness is present, \"people are not alienated from God by their instincts\". The relation between the lower and the higher consciousness is akin to \"Paul's struggle of the spirit to overcome the flesh\", or the distinction between the natural and the spiritual side of human beings.\n\nThe idea of a \"wider self walled in by the habits of ego-consciousness\" and the search for a \"higher consciousness\" was manifested in 19th century movements as Theosophy New Thought Christian Science, and Transcendentalism.\n\nThe 19th century Transcendentalists saw the entire physical world as a representation of a higher spiritual world. They believed that humans could elevate themselves above their animal instincts, attain a higher consciousness, and partake in this spiritual world.\n\nAccording to Blavatsky, who founded the Theosophical Movement,\nBlavatsky refers to Fichte in her explanation of Theosophy:\nThe idea of \"lower\" and \"higher consciousness\" has gained popularity in modern popular spirituality. According to James Beverley, it lies at the heart of the New Age movement.\n\nKen Wilber has tried to integrate eastern and western models of the mind, using the notion of \"lower\" and \"higher consciousness\". In his book \"The Spectrum of Consciousness\" Wilber describes consciousness as a spectrum with ordinary awareness at one end, and more profound types of awareness at higher levels. In later works he describes the development of consciousness as a development from lower consciousness, through personal consciousness, to higher transpersonal consciousness.\n\nGerald Edelman, in his 'Theory of Consciousness', distinguishes higher consciousness, or \"secondary consciousness\" from \"primary consciousness\", defined as simple awareness that includes perception and emotion. Higher consciousness in contrast, \"involves the ability to be conscious of being conscious\", and \"allows the recognition by a thinking subject of his or her own acts and affections\". Higher consciousness requires, at a minimal level semantic ability, and \"in its most developed form, requires linguistic ability, or the mastery of a whole system of symbols and a grammar\".\n\nPsychedelic drugs can be used to alter the brain cognition and perception, some believing this to be a state of higher consciousness and transcendence. Typical psychedelic drugs are hallucinogens including LSD, DMT (Dimethyltryptamine), cannabis, peyote, and psilocybin mushrooms. According to Wolfson, these drug-induced altered states of consciousness may result in a more long-term and positive transformation of self.\n\nAccording to Dutta, psychedelic drugs may be used for psychoanalytic therapy, as a means to gain access to the higher consciousness, thereby providing patients the ability to access memories that are held deep within their mind.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "13671987", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13671987", "title": "Hugh Brady", "text": "Hugh Brady\n\nHugh Brady (July 29, 1768 – April 15, 1851) was an American general from Pennsylvania. He served in the Northwest Indian War under General Anthony Wayne, and during the War of 1812. Following the War of 1812, Brady remained in the military, eventually rising to the rank of major general and taking command of the garrison at Detroit. He also, marginally participated in the 1832 Black Hawk War. Hugh Brady died an accidental death in 1851 when he was thrown from a horse-drawn carriage.\n\nHugh Brady was born July 29, 1768, one of six sons and four daughters by John and Mary Brady, in Standing Stone, Huntingdon County, Pennsylvania. He is not to be confused with the current President of University College Dublin. Brady's father, Captain John Brady, was killed in 1779, during the American Revolution in a battle with Native Americans. In May 1779, the family moved to Brady's maternal grandfather's home in Cumberland County and stayed there until October 1779. After a harsh winter, Brady spent the ensuing few years working the fields in the area with his brothers, often armed in case of conflict with Native Americans. Brady's mother died in 1783, and his oldest siblings began to marry. Hugh Brady moved with his brother Samuel Brady to Washington County, Pennsylvania. Samuel married and Hugh stayed with his brother until 1792, when he began his military career.\n\nHugh's father, Capt. John Brady, was born in 1733 near Newark, Delaware and died April 11, 1779 near Muncy, Pennsylvania in an Indian attack. His mother was Mary Quigley Brady, who was born on August 16, 1735 in Hopewell Township, Cumberland County, Pennsylvania and died October 20, 1783 in Muncy, Lycoming County, Pennsylvania. Capt. John Brady and Mary Quigley Brady had thirteen children, three of whom died in infancy. Their children were Captain Samuel Brady, born 1756; James Brady, born 1758; William Brady, born 1760 and died in infancy; John Brady, born March 18, 1761; Mary Brady (Gray), born April 22, 1764; William Penn Brady, born August 16, 1766; General Hugh Brady, twin, born July 27, 1768; Jane Brady, twin, born July 27, 1768; Robert Quigley Brady, born September 12, 1770; Agnes Brady, born February 14, 1773 and died November 24, 1773; Hannah Brady (Gray), born December 3, 1774; Joseph Brady, born in August 1777 and died in infancy; and Liberty Brady (Dewart), born August 9, 1778.\n\nHugh's Irish maternal grandfather, James Quigley, was born in about 1710 and came to America from Ireland in 1730. He settled on of frontier land, in what is today, Hopewell township, Cumberland County, Pennsylvania, close to present day Shippensburg, Pennsylvania. He built his wilderness home of logs close to the banks of Conodoguinet Creek.\n\nThe Scottish-Irish were the earliest settlers on the Pennsylvania frontier of the early 18th century. As one author puts it.\n\nThe Cumberland Valley was dotted with Scottish-Irish settlements throughout its entire area, a district which had become almost exclusively the possession of this racial group, with whom were mingled small numbers of English and German settlers constituting perhaps ten percent of the population. It was well adapted to farming, and the Scottish-Irish, in this early period, were mostly farmers, but later they developed a marked aptitude for trade and the professions.\n\nAs pioneers, they were the advance guard blazing the trail through the wilderness far out on the frontier. They were the first line of defense against the savages, bearing the brunt of the Indian wars, and courageously enduring the hardships of pioneer life as the typical frontiersmen of provincial Pennsylvania. Step by step they had advanced along a perilous path, surmounting whatever difficulties arose, moving ever farther into the wilderness and reclaiming it to the new civilization.\n\nLittle is known of James' wife, Jeanette, except that she was likely of Scottish descent and probably was born in Hopewell Township in 1725. However, according to Brady family historian, Belle Swope, \"We are assured she was a devoted wife, a loving mother, and a wise counselor, or she would not have given to the world such brave and illustrious children.\" In 1738 the log Middle Spring Presbyterian Church was erected three miles (5 km) from their homestead, of which James and Jeanette Quigley became faithful members and in which they along with some of their children came to be buried in its old graveyard. James Quigley had to be and was ever vigilant to keep hostile Indians from killing his family and burning his home–a fate that befell many of his neighbors in those early days on the Pennsylvania frontier. In addition to successfully keeping his home and family safe, on March 25, 1756 James Quigley was commissioned ensign in the Cumberland County Colonial Rangers. He served as a private in the Revolutionary War. He died in 1782. They had six children, who were all born on their Hopewell Township homestead, namely, John Quigley, born in August 1731, Samuel Quigley, born in June 1733, Mary Quigley (who was the wife of Major John Brady, Hugh's mother), born August 16, 1735, Agnes Quigley, born in March 1737 or 1738, Martha Quigley, born in July 1741 and Robert Quigley, born in 1744, who married Mary Jacob. Robert Quigley eventually ended up living on the Quigley Homestead, at Quigley Bridge, Hopewell Township, Cumberland County, Pennsylvania. Robert Quigley and Mary Quigley Brady remained very close throughout their lives.\n\nAs to the Brady grandparents of General Hugh Brady, Belle Swope states, \"No family of pioneers was more conspicuous in the early history and settlement of the country than the Bradys.\" Hugh Brady was born in 1709 in County Cork, Ireland. Hannah's maiden name was McCormick. She was born on January 3, 1709 in Dublin, Ireland. After immigrating from Ireland, the Bradys first lived in the American colony of Delaware where they were married in 1733. They are said to have moved to frontier Pennsylvania on the urging of prosperous friends who told them that good land was readily available. Hugh and Hannah Brady moved to the Scottish-Irish Presbyterian community on the banks of Conodoguinet creek around 1733, where they established a homestead close to where the Quigleys had already settled. They thereby became near neighbors of and fellow church members with James and Jeanette Quigley. They had nine children, Major John Brady (General Hugh Brady's father), born in 1733 in Delaware, Samuel T. Brady born in 1734, Joseph Brady born in 1735, Hugh Brady born in 1738, William Robert Brady, born in 1740 in Cumberland County, Pennsylvania, Margaret Brady born in 1742, Mary Brady born in 1745, Ebenezer Brady born in 1750 and James Brady born in 1753. All of their children, except Major John Brady were likely born in Hopewell Township, Cumberland County, Pennsylvania. Hannah Brady died in 1776 in Cumberland County, Pennsylvania. Hugh Brady died on May 26, 1787, also in Cumberland County, Pennsylvania. As are the Quigleys, they are also buried in the Middle Spring Presbyterian Church Cemetery, Cumberland County, Pennsylvania.\n\nBrady was first inducted into the military with a commission from George Washington as an ensign in General \"Mad\" Anthony Wayne's Legion of the United States in March 1792 and placed in a rifle company under the command of Captain John Crawford. By 1794, Brady rose to the rank of lieutenant, and fought with Wayne in the Northwest Indian War. Brady participated in the decisive Battle of Fallen Timbers, which resulted in the Treaty of Greenville. In October 1795 he left the military, albeit temporarily, and returned to Virginia to visit the widow of his brother, Captain Samuel Brady.\n\nHis brother had settled in Ohio County, Virginia and after visiting his widow there, Hugh Brady decided to return home to see his family in Sunbury, Pennsylvania. He arrived there, after further stops in Virginia and Kentucky, in 1797. He remained in Sunbury until, during the winter of 1798–99, he was appointed a captain in the army raised by the administration of President John Adams during the Quasi-War. This army was disbanded a year later, and Brady went about improving a plot of land, with his brother William, about from Pittsburgh along the Mahoning River. Brady married Sarah Wallace and remained on the plot until 1807.\n\nIn 1807 Brady moved to Northumberland County, Pennsylvania and remained there until 1812. In July 1812 he received a commission as colonel from President James Madison and once again rejoined the ranks of U.S. military officers. He was given command of the 22nd Infantry Regiment and saw action at the Battle of Chippawa and the Battle of Lundy's Lane, where he was severely wounded. The wounds ended his service during the War of 1812. Brady would remain in the military after the war, until his death in 1851.\n\nIn 1815 Brady was appointed Colonel Commandant to the 2nd Infantry Regiment based at Sackett's Harbor, New York. In 1822, Colonel Brady and five companies of the 2nd Infantry established Fort Brady on the site of the French stockade Fort Repentigny (1751), along the St. Mary's River at Sault Sainte Marie, Michigan Territory, near Lake Superior. The outpost became an important defense structure in the upper Michigan frontier. In 1822, most of the soldiers at Fort Brady were withdrawn and transferred to Fort Snelling, Minnesota. Brady rose in rank to brever brigadier general later that same year, after ten years service. Brady had command of the garrison at Detroit by 1828.\n\nIn late April 1832 the Black Hawk War began between Sauk war chief Black Hawk's British Band and the Illinois state and Michigan Territorial Militia. Brady left Michigan Territorial Capital for Fort Winnebago, near present-day Portage, Wisconsin. Brady was Commandant of the Department of the Upper Great Lakes at the time and was accompanied by one aide. Brady, having seen combat in the 1790s with Wayne and during the War of 1812, was of the opinion that the Sauk could be easily defeated with only a few companies of soldiers. Brady was given command of two companies and set out to rendezvous with General Henry Atkinson, overall commander, in northern Illinois.\n\nMuch of Brady's overall involvement in this conflict was peripheral. On the afternoon of June 8, 1832, Henry Dodge and his men, including James W. Stephenson, proceeded to Kellogg's Grove and buried the victims of the St. Vrain massacre. That night Stephenson returned to Galena, Illinois, while Dodge moved to Hickory Point where he remained overnight. The next morning Dodge set out for Dixon's Ferry, where he camped with General Brady. On June 11, Dodge escorted Brady to the mouth of the Fox River to confer with Atkinson. Dodge left the conference with clear authority from Atkinson to deal with the violence in the mining region. Hugh Brady set out for Fort Hamilton, with the brigade commanded by Alexander Posey and his two companies of regulars, on June 20. Brady was eventually given a larger force but was stricken with dysentery in July and did not participate further in the war.\nFive years after the Black Hawk War, in 1837, Brady was given command of Military Department No. 7, headquartered in Detroit. He remained in the position for seven years, during which time he was in command over the removal of several Native American tribes as well as an incident known as the \"Patriot War\". When the U.S.-Mexican War broke out, Brady was too old to join the troops in the field but he assisted by helping to raise troops and equipment and shipping it to the war zone. In 1848, three years before his death, Brady was brevetted to the rank of major general.\n\nHugh Brady died, an accidental death, in Detroit on April 15, 1851. Brady was at the helm of a horse-drawn carriage, when the vehicle became entangled in telegraph wires. The wires, lowered for repairs, caused the horses to panic. In the panic, Brady was thrown from the carriage and fatally injured. He died in the presence of his pastor, Dr. (Rev.) George Duffield.\n\n"}
{"id": "487974", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=487974", "title": "Joachim Peiper", "text": "Joachim Peiper\n\nJoachim Peiper (30 January 1915 – 14 July 1976), also known as Jochen Peiper, was a field officer in the Waffen-SS during World War II and personal adjutant to \"Reichsführer-SS\" Heinrich Himmler between November 1940 and August 1941.\n\nPeiper fought on both the Eastern Front against the Red Army and the Western Front against the Western Allies, and was awarded by Nazi Germany the Knight's Cross of the Iron Cross with Oak Leaves and Swords.\n\nPeiper was convicted of war crimes committed in Belgium and imprisoned for almost 12 years. He was accused of war crimes in Italy, but Italian and German courts concluded that there was insufficient evidence to warrant prosecution.\n\nAfter his release from prison, Peiper worked for both Porsche and Volkswagen, before moving to France, where he translated books from English to German under the \"nom de plume\" \"Rainer Buschmann\". Peiper was murdered in France in July 1976.\n\nPeiper was born on 30 January 1915 into a middle class family from the Silesian region of Germany. His father, Captain Waldemar Peiper, served in the Imperial German Army and fought in the colonial campaigns in East Africa. In 1915, he retired from active duty for health reasons after contracting malaria. After the war, Waldemar Peiper joined the \"Freikorps\" and took part in the Silesian Uprisings.\n\nPeiper did not obtain the grades needed to continue to university. In 1926, Peiper followed his older brother Horst (born 1912) and joined the Scout movement, developing an interest in a military career. Peiper’s brother Horst joined the SS, eventually reaching the rank of \"Hauptsturmführer\". Horst participated in the Battle of France with the 3rd SS Division \"Totenkopf\" before being transferred to Poland, where he died in an accident.\n\nWhen Peiper turned 18 years old, he volunteered to join the Hitler Youth (\"Hitlerjugend\") together with his brother Horst. (Peiper's oldest brother, Hasso, was born in 1910). Peiper wanted to join a cavalry division of the German \"Reichswehr\". To gain skill at horseriding, he followed the advice of a family friend, General Walther von Reichenau, and enlisted in the 7th SS \"Reiterstandarte\" on 12 October 1933. On 23 January 1934, he was promoted to \"SS-Mann\" with SS number 132,496. In 1934, during the annual Nuremberg Rally, Peiper was promoted to SS-\"Sturmmann\" and later gained the attention of Heinrich Himmler. In his 1935 résumé, Peiper wrote: \"As a result of a personal exhortation by the \"Reichsführer\"-SS, Himmler, I have decided to strive for a career as an active senior SS officer.\"\n\nIn January 1935, he was sent to a camp for Hitler Youth, SA and SS members near Jüterbog. After he completed the course, he was promoted to SS-\"Unterscharführer\". Peiper attended the SS \"Junkerschule\" (officer training school) in Braunschweig from 24 April 1935 to 30 March 1936. After graduating from the \"Junkerschule,\" Peiper attended training at the Dachau concentration camp in February and March 1936. On 20 April 1936, Peiper was promoted to SS-\"Untersturmführer\" and was posted to the \"Leibstandarte SS Adolf Hitler\" (LSSAH) under the command of Sepp Dietrich. He remained with the unit until June 1938.\n\nOn 4 July 1938, Peiper was appointed to an administrative post as an adjutant to Heinrich Himmler, under the command of Karl Wolff. Peiper worked in Himmler’s anteroom in the \"SS-Hauptamt\" at Prinz-Albrecht-Straße. As a member of Himmler's staff, Peiper was close to many high ranking SS officers. He became one of Himmler's favourite adjutants. Peiper later served on Himmler's personal staff and accompanied him on a state visit to Italy.\n\nOn his twenty-fourth birthday, Peiper was promoted to \"Obersturmführer\". Around this time, he met Sigurd (Sigi) Hinrichsen, a secretary on Himmler’s personal staff and a close friend of Hedwig Potthast, Himmler’s mistress. Peiper and Hinrichsen were married on 26 June 1939 in a SS ceremony. The couple lived in Berlin until the first allied air raids on Berlin, when Sigi was sent to Rottach, Upper Bavaria, near Himmler's second residence. The couple later had three children: Hinrich, Elke and Silke.\n\nOn 1 September 1939, Germany invaded Poland. As one of his adjutants, Peiper joined Himmler on board his special train. Peiper was with Himmler on 20 September in Bydgoszcz Blomberg when they witnessed the execution of 20 Poles. Peiper later wrote that the experience left Himmler \"speechless\" for several days. As Peiper later told Ernst Schäfer, Adolf Hitler had previously ordered Himmler to murder the Polish intellectuals.\n\nAfter Poland was defeated, Peiper assisted Himmler in developing policies and plans for controlling the Polish population. Later, Peiper accompanied Himmler to \"Feldherrnhalle\" commemorative ceremonies in Munich on 9 October 1939. On 13 December 1939, Peiper and Himmler witnessed the gassing of a resident of a psychiatric facility in Owińska near Poznań. In post-war interrogations, Peiper described the experience in a detached, factual manner.\n\nIn April 1940, Peiper accompanied Himmler on trips to the Buchenwald and Flossenbürg concentration camps, followed by a visit to Poland to meet with SS and Police Leader Wilhelm Rediess and \"Brigadeführer\" Otto Rasch. In early May, Himmler, accompanied by Peiper, met with SS and Police Leader Odilo Globocnik in Lublin, with Peiper noting in Himmler's appointment calendar Globocnik's plans to use Jewish forced labor for a massive fortification project. On 17 May 1940, Peiper accompanied Himmler as he followed Waffen-SS troops during the Battle of France. In Hasselt, Peiper obtained permission to join a combat unit and became a platoon leader in the 3rd Battalion of the 11th Company of the LSSAH. After seizing an artillery battery on the hills of Wattenberg, Peiper was awarded the Iron Cross and promoted to \"Hauptsturmführer\".\n\nPeiper returned to his duties as Himmler's adjutant on 21 June 1940. On 10 July 1940, he accompanied Himmler to the Berghof, where Reich leaders discussed the war and Hitler's plans.\n\nIn October 1940, Peiper accompanied Himmler to Madrid where Himmler met with Franco. After passing through Metz, they stopped in Dax, where Himmler met with Theodor Eicke, the commander of the SS \"Totenkopf\" division. Shortly afterward, on 14 November 1940, Peiper was appointed first adjutant to Himmler. In January 1941, Peiper accompanied Himmler when he inspected Ravensbrück and Dachau concentration camps. In March 1941, together with Karl Wolff and Fritz Bracht, they visited Auschwitz.\nHimmler and his staff then travelled to Norway, Austria, Poland, the Balkans and Greece. This trip included a visit to the Łódź ghetto, about which Peiper wrote: \"It was a macabre image: we saw how the Jewish Ghetto police, who wore hats without rims and were armed with wooden clubs, inconsiderately made room for us. The Jewish elders also presented Himmler with a bouquet of flowers.\"\n\nIn February 1941, Himmler told Peiper about the German plan, Operation \"Barbarossa\", to invade the Soviet Union. The operation began on 22 June 1941. Behind the front lines, the \"Einsatzgruppen\" death squads, under the control of the Reich Main Security Office (RSHA), committed mass murder against the so-called \"Untermenschen\", which included communists, Jews, gypsies and partisans. Peiper's duties as first adjutant included providing Himmler with statistics from the \"Einsatzgruppen\" units about the mass killings on the Eastern Front.\n\nDuring the later summer of 1941, Peiper was transferred to a combat unit of the LSSAH, which by this time was part of the Waffen-SS. Peiper remained in close contact with Himmler as shown by their ongoing correspondence through to the end of the war. Himmler addressed Peiper as \"my dear Jochen\".\n\nAlthough no longer Himmler's official first adjutant, Peiper continued to write in Himmler’s diary until mid-September 1941. Peiper may have been dispatched to the LSSAH earlier as an observer for Himmler, but available records show that he formally transferred to the LSSAH before October 1941. When he rejoined the LSSAH, it was engaged on the Eastern Front near the Black Sea. Peiper spent several days at its headquarters when an injury to a unit commander gave Peiper an opportunity to take command of the 11th Company.\n\nThe 11th Company fought at Mariupol and Rostov-on-Don. Peiper was noted for his fighting spirit, although his unit suffered high casualties as a consequence of his aggressive tactics. The company killed a number of prisoners of war.\n\nDuring its combat action, the LSSAH was followed by \"Einsatzgruppe D\", responsible for organising the extermination of Jews and communists. \"Einsatzgruppe D\" continued its operations even when winter weather suspended active military operations. It shared the same winter quarters at Taganrog on the Azov Sea as the LSSAH and, on occasion, the division assisted \"Einsatzgruppe D\" with its operations.\n\nIn May 1942, Peiper learned of the death of his brother Hans-Hasso. During the same month, the LSSAH was transferred to France for rest and refit. En route to France, Peiper left his unit and met with Himmler at his headquarters on 1 June. The meeting included a dinner attended by Himmler's secretary Rudolf Brandt and Heinz Lammerding, a member of the staff headquarters of the SS Division Totenkopf. In July 1942, Peiper again met with Himmler and did not rejoin his battalion until August 1942.\n\nDuring its stay in France, the LSSAH was reorganised into a Panzergrenadier division and Peiper was promoted to commander of its 3rd Battalion. At the end of 1942, Peiper received permission to visit his family. On 30 January 1943, he was promoted to SS-\"Obersturmbannführer\". Meanwhile, on the Eastern Front, the German situation had seriously worsened, especially in the Battle of Stalingrad. Peiper’s battalion left its quarters in France on 31 January 1943 for Lyubotin, near Kharkiv. It was immediately dispatched to the front.\n\nDuring the Third Battle of Kharkov, Peiper led the 3rd Battalion of the 2nd Panzergrenadier Regiment, which broke through Soviet lines to rescue the encircled 320th Infantry Division. Leading the ambulances back to the German lines, he found his route blocked by a Soviet ski battalion that had destroyed the main bridge across the Udy River. His unit fought through the city and repaired the bridge, securing an exit route for the ambulances back to the German lines. The repaired bridge, however, would not support the unit's heavy-armored half-tracks and assault guns. Peiper ordered his men back behind the Soviet lines to find another exit, and they returned to the German lines with few casualties.\n\nThe rescue culminated with a fierce battle with the Soviet forces at the village of Krasnaya Polyana. Upon entering the village, however, Peiper's troops made a terrible discovery. All the men in his small rearguard medical detachment left there had been killed and then mutilated. An SS Sergeant in Peiper's ration supply company, Otto Sierk, claimed that Peiper responded in kind: \"In the village, the two petrol trucks were burnt and 25 Germans killed by partisans and Soviet soldiers. As a revenge, Peiper ordered the burning down of the whole village and the shooting of its inhabitants\". (Sierk's testimony was obtained on 17 November 1944 by the Western Allies, and has just been recently declassified).\n\nOn 6 May 1943, Peiper was awarded the German Cross in Gold for his achievements in February 1943 around Kharkov, where his unit gained the nickname the \"Blowtorch Battalion\". Reportedly, the nickname derived from the torching and slaughter of two Soviet villages where their inhabitants were either shot or burned. Ukrainian sources, including surviving witness Ivan Kiselev, who was 14 at the time of the massacre, described the killings at the villages of Yefremovka and Semyonovka on 17 February 1943. On 12 February Waffen-SS troops of the LSSAH occupied the two villages, where retreating Soviet forces had wounded two SS officers. In retaliation, five days later LSSAH troops killed 872 men, women and children. Some 240 of these were burned alive in the church of Yefremovka. \n\nIn August 1944, when Sturmbannführer Jacob Hanreich was captured south of Falaise in France and interrogated by the Allies, he stated that Peiper was \"particularly eager to execute the order to burn villages\". Hanreich had previously served with \"Leibstandarte\" but was with SS Division \"Hitlerjugend\" at the time of his capture. The blowtorch became an unofficial symbol of the unit and was painted on the battalion's vehicles.\n\nOn 9 March 1943, Peiper was awarded Germany's highest decoration, the Knight's Cross of the Iron Cross. Himmler sent personal congratulations over the radio: \"Heartfelt congratulations for the Knight's Cross my dear Jochen! I am proud of you!\" During this period, the Nazi propaganda praised Peiper as an outstanding leader. The official Waffen-SS newspaper, \"Das Schwarze Korps\" (\"The Black Corps\"), described Peiper's actions in Kharkiv in glowing terms such as \"the master of the situation in all its phases\" and extolled Peiper's \"quick decision making\", \"caring\" attitude and \"bold and unorthodox orders\" backed by \"intellectual work and instinctive safety\". The paper noted the \"unconditional trust of his men\" and emphasized that he was \"a born leader, one filled with the highest sense of responsibility for the life of every single one of his men, but who [was] also able to be hard if necessary\".\n\nThe descriptions of his tactical skills propelled Peiper to become an icon of the Waffen-SS after the war, with former battalion members describing him in glowing language. Peiper was seen as an officer who obeyed orders without much discussion and expected the same from his men.\n\nIn July 1943, the LSSAH took part in Operation Citadel in the area of Kursk, with Peiper's unit distinguishing itself in the fighting. After the failure of the operation, on 17 July, the LSSAH was withdrawn from the Eastern Front and transferred to the area of Cuneo in Northern Italy.\n\nAfter Italian forces capitulated to the Allies, the LSSAH was moved to Italy for two months to assist in disarming the Italian military and prevent them from attacking German forces. Beginning in August, Peiper’s battalion quarters were near Cuneo. On 10 September, they received orders to disarm Italian garrisons in Alessandria and Asti.\n\nOn 19 September, partisans in the village of Boves captured two of Peiper's men. Faustino Dolmazzo, an advisor to the partisans, reported that when Peiper arrived in Boves, the Germans appointed two Italians, one the village priest, to arrange the men's freedom. Peiper promised the Germans would not engage in any reprisals.\n\nThe two men were freed, but the Germans then set fire to the houses in the village and killed 22 men when they tried to flee. The burned bodies of the two Italian intermediaries were found among the victims.\n\nPeiper himself reported on the action, now known as the Boves massacre: \"I am of the opinion that our action to free our encircled comrades in Boves nipped in the bud the Italian army's attack, for the army fell apart and no attack ever took place on Cuneo or Turin. However regrettable the consequences of our action was for the affected residents of Boves, it should not be overlooked that our one-time intervention prevented further immeasurable casualties which would have resulted from continued Italian attacks.\" In 1968, an Italian court concluded there was \"...insufficient suspicion of criminal activity on the part of any of the accused to warrant prosecution\". On 23 December 1968, a German District Court in Stuttgart reached the same conclusion, terminating any potential prosecution of Peiper for his activities in Italy.\n\nAccording to the Italian version of the events, local partisans captured two German soldiers, and Peiper demanded that they be released, threatening otherwise to burn down the village. The partisans released the two prisoners unharmed, but Peiper nevertheless ordered the village burned down, and his troops opened fire on the inhabitants, killing 23. The parish priest of Boves, don Giuseppe Bernardi, and local industrialist Alessandro Vassallo, who had acted as negotiators between Peiper and the partisans, were doused with petrol and burned alive. The deputy parish priest, don Mario Ghibaudo, was also killed while giving the absolution to an old man who had been shot by a German soldier. Contrary to what Peiper stated, there was no \"Italian Army attack\" in the area of Boves at the time of the massacre, as the Italian Army had dissolved following Operation Achse and there were only a few dozen ill-armed soldiers who had formed a partisan group in the mountains surrounding Boves (there were no partisans in the village itself).\n\nBeginning November 1943, Peiper’s unit arrived on the Eastern Front, where it took part in combat in the area of Zhytomyr. On 20 November, Georg Schönberger was killed in action, and Peiper took his place as commander of the 1st SS Panzer Regiment; a position he held until the end of the war. Under his command, the regiment fought through the winter and was engaged in numerous night assaults against the Red Army. His panzer unit played an essential role in stalling the Soviet offensive in the area of Zhytomyr. Peiper led actions by attacking the rear of enemy lines and captured four division headquarters. For this action he was awarded the Oak Leaves of the Knight's Cross.\n\nPeiper's aggressiveness and regiment command appointment caused resentment by some against him. In the mean time, brutal combat involving his unit continued. On 5 and 6 December 1943, the unit killed 2280 Soviet soldiers and took only three prisoners. During heavy fighting, the village of Pekartschina was completely burned with flamethrowers and its inhabitants killed.\n\nOn 20 January 1944, Peiper left his unit and went directly to the headquarters of Hitler, who presented him with the Oak Leaves to be added to his Knight's Cross. Shortly afterwards, on his 29th birthday, Peiper was promoted to \"Obersturmbannführer\". However, Peiper was physically and mentally exhausted. A medical examination carried out by SS doctors in Dachau reached the conclusion that he needed rest. Therefore, he went to see his wife in Bavaria.\n\nIn March 1944, the LSSAH was withdrawn from the Eastern Front. The transfer of all its units was not completed before 24 May. Peiper joined his unit in April. The battles in the east had caused heavy losses of men and materiel. The new recruits were not of the same caliber as the pre-war volunteers, who'd been recruited according to strict criteria.\n\nIn Belgium, five young recruits accused of stealing poultry and ham from civilians were sentenced to death by a court-martial. The verdict seemed out of proportion to the offence, especially when looking at similar cases. Peiper ordered the five shot on 28 May 1944 and had the other young recruits marched past the corpses; but the executions actually had a negative impact on the morale of the regiment. The stay in the Belgian Limburg was devoted mainly to drills and refit, made more difficult due to the lack of materiel and gasoline.\n\nThe Allied landing in Normandy necessitated the return of the LSSAH to the Western Front. On 17 June, the division began its move to the area of Caen, but some parts of the panzer regiment had to stay in Belgium awaiting new tanks. The whole division did not reach its rally zone before 6 July 1944. On 28 June, the 1st SS Panzer Regiment of Peiper arrived at the front and was immediately engaged in combat. As with the other German units of the area, they essentially fought a defensive battle until the Avranches breakthrough by the US Army at the end of July and beginning of August. Having gone to the front with 19,618 men, the LSSAH lost 25% of its men and all its tanks. As with most of the Waffen-SS divisions engaged in Normandy, the LSSAH lost its operational ability and was described in the official tables of the available units prepared by the OKW on 16 September 1944 not as a division but as a Kampfgruppe.\n\nPeiper was not in command of his panzer regiment during the counter-attacks near Avranches. Suffering from a nervous breakdown he had been discreetly evacuated to a military hospital in the area of Sées at 70 km of the frontline. According to the official diagnosis, he was suffering from jaundice. He would eventually be dispatched to the rear and from September 1944 forward was in a military hospital near the Tegernsee in Upper Bavaria. This was not far from his family home. He stayed there until 7 October.\n\nDuring the autumn, the German forces had to counter the attempts of the Western Allies to cross the Westwall, while Hitler was looking for an opportunity to seize the initiative on the Western Front. The result was the Operation Wacht am Rhein. In a desperate attempt to defeat the Allies on the Western Front, the German armies were to break through the US lines in the Ardennes, to cross the River Meuse and take Antwerp, cutting the Allied forces in two.\n\nThe main role in the breakthrough was devoted to the 6th Panzer Army under the command of Sepp Dietrich. He would have to pierce the American lines between Aachen and the Schnee Eifel and seize bridges on the Meuse on both sides of Liège. Within the 6th Panzer Army a mobile striking role was assigned to the LSSAH, then under the command of SS-\"Oberführer\" Wilhelm Mohnke. The division was split into four Kampfgruppe with Peiper commanding the most substantial, which included all the armored sections of the division. Peiper was given the use of the newest tank, the 70 ton Tiger II or King Tiger, which would be taking part in its third battle on the western front since its introduction, and with its 7 inches of armor made it impervious to allied anti-tank weapons. However, the King Tiger had a high consumption of fuel (1/2 mile to the gallon) along with mechanical defects (mainly the tank's suspension system), which would continuously hinder Peiper's ability to reach his assigned objectives in Operation Wacht am Rhein. His unit was to break through the U.S. lines along a route designated B through Spa, Belgium and to take bridges on the Meuse between Liège and Huy.\n\nPeiper's assigned route, or \"Rollbahn\", had many hairpin turns and traversed steep hillsides that delayed his already slow-moving towed artillery and bridging trains. It included narrow, in many places single-track, roads which forced units of the Kampfgruppe to tail each other, creating a column of infantry and armor up to long. Peiper complained that the road assigned to his Kampfgruppe was suitable for bicycles, but not for panzers. Fritz Krämer, Chief of Staff for the 6th Panzer Army responded, \"I don’t care how and what you do. Just make it to the Meuse. Even if you’ve only one tank left when you get there.\" Peiper's unit had only a quarter of the fuel that it needed. The plan counted on the capture of Allied fuel depots and keeping to an ambitious timetable.\n\nKampfgruppe Peiper was initially delayed by more than 16 hours when the 1st Battalion, 9th Fallschirmjäger Regiment, 3rd Fallschirmjäger Division took most of 16 December to defeat 18 men of the Intelligence and Reconnaissance Platoon, 394th Regiment, US 99th Infantry Division who blocked the route near the tiny village of Lanzerath, Belgium in the Battle of Lanzareth ridge.\n\nPeiper’s mechanized column did not reach his first day's objective until midnight that same day. As a result, Peiper first attacked shortly before daybreak on 17 December 1944, almost 18 hours later than expected. Hustling through the remains of the American front lines, he quickly took Honsfeld.\n\nPeiper had planned to advance through Losheimergraben, but the 12th and 277th Volksgrenadier Divisions failed to gain control on the first day as planned. In the early morning of 17 December, they quickly captured Honsfeld and of fuel for his vehicles.\n\nPeiper advanced towards Büllingen, keeping to the plan to move west, and then turned south to detour around Hünningen. He continued west on his assigned route until he had to deflect shortly before Ligneuville because the assigned road was impassable. This bypass forced him towards the Baugnez crossroads where his armored units encountered a lightly armed column of U.S. artillery observers, who were quickly neutralized.\n\nPeiper's unit became infamous for the murder of U.S. prisoners of war at the crossroads in what became known as the Malmedy massacre. Moving ahead, he crossed Ligneuville and reached the heights of Stavelot on the left bank of the Amblève River at nightfall of the second day of operation Wacht am Rhein. While the little city was defended only by a few U.S. troops and could have been easily taken the same day, for reasons unknown he held back and assaulted at dawn of the next day. Valuable time was lost, allowing the Americans to reorganise. After heavy fighting, his Kampfgruppe eventually managed to cross the bridge on the River Amblève, and from there he found the going increasingly difficult.\n\nThe US forces regrouped themselves and blasted the bridges on the Amblève and the River Salm that Peiper needed to cross in order to continue on a direct road to the Meuse. On 18 December, United States Army Corps of Engineers blasted the bridges in front of him that he needed to reach his objective, trapping him in the deep valley of the Amblève, downstream from Trois-Ponts. The weather had also improved, permitting the Allied Air Forces to operate. Several P-47 squadrons attacked his column spread over . The air strikes destroyed or heavily damaged numerous vehicles of his Kampfgruppe and made some parts of his itinerary impracticable, slowing down his progression. Peiper was unable to protect his rear, which enabled American troops to recapture and destroy the bridge on the Amblève in Stavelot, cutting him off from the only possible supply road for ammunition and, above all, fuel, which he lacked. In spite of these problems, Peiper continued his progress towards Stoumont before American resistance forced him to retire to La Gleize. Short of fuel, men and ammunition he held out during six days of US Army bombardment and counterattacks. Without supplies and with no contact with other German units behind him, Peiper decided on 24 December to abandon his vehicles and march through the woods to escape. He retreated with the remaining 800 men and 36 hours later he reached the German lines with 770 men, having covered 20 kilometers by foot in deep snow and freezing temperatures.\n\nIn January 1945, the Swords were added to his Knight's Cross. The proposal was drafted by Wilhelm Mohnke. The great fame of Peiper as a Waffen-SS commander during the \"Battle of the Bulge\" was born. At the end of January 1945, Peiper was in the Berlin area. On 4 February, he met for the last time with Himmler at his provisional headquarters. Peiper then went to the Panzergrenadier school in Krhanice until 14 February. From there he joined his unit in the southwest of the area of Farnad. His unit took part in Operation Spring Awakening which failed. Although Peiper’s unit inflicted a large number of casualties, due to his aggressive style of command he lost many men and numerous old companions.\n\nOn 1 May, as other units of the LSSAH were forced to retreat into Austria, the men were informed of Adolf Hitler’s death. A few days later, all SS units were ordered to retreat to the west. On 8 May, the LSSAH received the order to cross the Enns River and surrender to the American troops. Accompanied by Paul Gühl, Peiper tried to escape captivity and make his way home. On 22 May, Peiper and Gühl were captured near Schliersee. Through July 1945 he was held in a POW camp at Feuchtwangen in Bavaria. Although he was actively sought by American forces (due to his alleged involvement in the Malmedy massacre), Peiper was not identified until 21 August 1945. This was the day after he was transferred to the interrogation camp of the 3rd US Army in Freising.\n\nDuring the 1st SS Panzer Division's advance on 17 December 1944, his armored units and halftracks confronted a lightly armed convoy of about 30 American vehicles at the Baugnez crossroads near Malmedy. The troops, mainly elements of the American 285th Field Artillery Observation Battalion, were quickly overcome and captured. Along with other American POWs previously captured, they were ordered to stand in a meadow when the Germans opened fire on the prisoners with machine guns, killing 84 soldiers, and leaving the bodies in the snow. The survivors were able to reach American lines later that day, and their story spread rapidly throughout the American front lines.\n\nAuthor Richard Gallagher reported that during the briefing held before the operation, Peiper clearly stated that no quarter should be given nor prisoners taken and that no pity should be shown towards the Belgian civilians. However, Lieutenant Colonel Hal McCown, commander of the 2nd Battalion, 119th Infantry Regiment, testified about the treatment his unit was given after being captured on 21 December by Peiper's Kampfgruppe at Froidcour between La Gleize and Stoumont. McCown said he met Peiper in person and based on his observations, American prisoners were at no time mistreated by the SS and the food given to them was nearly as good as that used by the Germans themselves.\n\nPeiper's men engaged in other murders of prisoners. In Honsfeld, men in Kampfgruppe Peiper murdered several American prisoners.\n\nOther murders of POWs and civilian population were reported in Büllingen, Ligneuville, Stavelot, Cheneux, La Gleize, Stoumont, and Wereth on 17, 18, 19 and 20 December. On 19 December 1944, in the area between Stavelot and Trois-Ponts, while the Germans were trying to regain control of the bridge over the Amblève River (crucial for allowing reinforcements and supplies to reach the Kampfgruppe) men of Kampfgruppe Peiper killed a number of Belgian civilians. Kampfgruppe Peiper was eventually declared responsible for the deaths of 362 prisoners of war and 111 civilians.\n\nAfter the surrender of the German armies, war crimes during the \"Battle of the Bulge\" were attributed to Kampfgruppe Peiper, resulting in American investigative teams searching POW camps for its men. Jailed in Freising, Upper Bavaria, Peiper underwent his first interrogations. Investigators quickly found that the SS men, including Peiper, although hardened soldiers, were not trained to withstand interrogation. Some men freely gave the requested information, while others only did so after having been allegedly subject to various forms of torture such as beatings, threats and mock executions. Peiper took command responsibility for the actions of the men under his command.\n\nIn December 1945, Peiper was transferred to the prison at Schwäbisch Hall, where 1,000 former members of the LSSAH were assembled. On 16 April 1946, approximately 300 prisoners were moved from Schwäbisch Hall to Dachau, where they were put on trial.\n\nThe trial took place at Dachau from 16 May to 16 July 1946 before a military tribunal of senior American officers, operating under rules established by the Nuremberg International Military Tribunal.\n\nThe 74 defendants included SS-\"Oberstgruppenführer\" Sepp Dietrich, 6th SS Panzer Army commanding general, his chief of staff SS-\"Brigadeführer\" Fritz Krämer, SS-\"Gruppenführer\" Hermann Prieß, I SS Panzer Corps commander, and Joachim Peiper, commander of the 1st SS Panzer Regiment (the unit to which the crimes were attributed).\n\nBefore the trial, occupation authorities reclassified the defendants from prisoners of war to Civilian Internees. The accusations were mainly based on the sworn and written statements provided by the defendants in Schwäbisch Hall. To counter the evidence given in the men's sworn statements and by prosecution witnesses, the lead defense attorney, Lieutenant Colonel Willis M. Everett tried to show that the statements had been obtained by inappropriate methods.\n\nEverett called Lieutenant Colonel Hal McCown to testify about Peiper's troops' treatment of American prisoners at La Gleize. McCown, who, along with his command, had been captured by Peiper at La Gleize, testified that wounded American soldiers in Peiper's custody had received equal priority with German wounded in receiving medical treatment. He testified that during his occupation of the town, Peiper had at all times behaved in a professional and honorable manner.\n\nEverett had decided to call only Peiper to testify. However, other defendants, supported by their German lawyers, wanted to testify as well. This would soon prove to be a huge mistake, for when the prosecution cross-examined the defendants, they behaved like \"a bunch of drowning rats (...) turning on each other.\" According to Everett, these testimonies gave the court enough reason to sentence several of the defendants to death.\n\nThe military court was not convinced by Peiper’s testimony about the murder of the POWs under the Kampfgruppe's control. During the trial, several witnesses testified of at least two instances in which Peiper had ordered the murder of prisoners of war. When questioned by the prosecution, Peiper denied these allegations, stating that the allegations were obtained from witnesses under torture. When questioned about the murder of Belgian civilians, Peiper said they were partisans. Although the court could not prove that Peiper had ordered the murders, Peiper nonetheless accepted responsibility for his men's actions.\n\nTogether with 42 other defendants, Joachim Peiper was sentenced to death by hanging on 16 July 1946.\n\nThe sentences generated significant controversy in some German circles, including the church, leading the commander of the U.S. Army in Germany to commute some of the death sentences to life imprisonment. In addition, the Germans' defense attorney, U.S. military attorney Lt. Col. Willis M. Everett, appealed to the U.S. Supreme Court, claiming that the defendants had been found guilty by means of \"illegal and fraudulently procured confessions\" and were subjects of mock trial. The turmoil raised by this case caused the Secretary of the Army, Kenneth Royall, to create a commission chaired by Judge Gordon A. Simpson of Texas to investigate. The commission was interested in the Malmedy massacre trial and in other cases judged at Dachau.\n\nThe commission arrived in Europe on 30 July 1948 and issued its report on 14 September. In this report, it notably recommended that the twelve remaining death sentences be commuted to life imprisonment. The commission confirmed the accuracy of Everett's accusations regarding mock trials and neither disputed nor denied his charges of torture of the defendants. The commission expressed the opinion that the pre-trial investigation had not been properly conducted and that the members felt that no death sentence should be executed where such a doubt existed.\n\nIn response, General Lucius Clay commuted six more death sentences to life imprisonment. But he refused to commute the six remaining death sentences, including Peiper's, though the executions were postponed. The turmoil caused by the commission report caused the U.S. Senate to investigate the trial.\n\nInvestigations were opened in the early 1950, including several Senate committees, on one of which was Joseph McCarthy, prepared to launch his sensationalist career. Receiving encouragement and information from right-wing and anti-semitic circles, McCarthy dominated the proceedings and grabbed headlines. He was also probably encouraged by the right-wing, anti-semitic judge, LeRoy van Roden, who saw the trials as being a Jewish effort to take revenge on the Germans, and who also served on the investigating commissions.\n\nIn its investigation of the trial, the Senate Committee on Armed Services came to the conclusion of improper pre-trial procedures, including a mock trial, but not torture as sometimes stated, had indeed affected the trial process. There was little or no doubt that some of the accused were indeed guilty of the massacre.\n\nA popular Wehrmacht ex-general Heinz Guderian actively campaigned for Peiper. For example, he wrote to one of his subordinates in 1951:\nAt the moment I'm negotiating with General Handy [Heidelberg] because [he] wants to hang the unfortunate Peiper. McCloy is powerless, because the Malmedy trial is being handled by Eucom, and is not subordinate to McCloy. As a result, I have decided to cable President Truman and ask him if he is familiar with this idiocy.\n\nUltimately the sentences of the Malmedy defendants were commuted to life imprisonment and then to time served. Peiper's sentence was commuted to 35 years in 1954 and he was released in December 1956, the last of the Malmedy condemned to be freed. He had served 11 and a half years in prison.\n\nHIAG, an organisation of former Waffen-SS members, had already helped Peiper’s wife find a job near the Landsberg Prison. They then worked to achieve the conditional release of Peiper himself. To obtain his release from prison, Peiper had to prove that he could obtain a job. Through the intermediary of Albert Prinzing, a former SS-\"Hauptsturmführer\" in the \"Sicherheitsdienst\", he got a job at the car manufacturer Porsche.\n\nFollowing his release from Landsberg Prison, Peiper was careful not to associate too closely with former Waffen-SS men and their organization, HIAG, at least publicly. However, privately, he maintained contact with and was closely involved with many former SS members. In 1959, for example, he attended the national meeting of the Association of Knight's Cross Recipients. He drove down with HIAG's official historian Walter Harzer with the express hope of seeing Kurt \"Panzer\" Meyer. He missed Meyer, but was able to see Sepp Dietrich and Heinz Lammerding at the closed-door meeting.\n\nHe was often seen at the funerals of personalities such as Meyer, Dietrich and Paul Hausser. Peiper assisted the efforts of these organizations to rehabilitate the Waffen-SS's reputation by hiding the more ruthless aspects of their past and exalting their military achievements, claiming that the SS were just like other soldiers. Peiper once told one of his friends: \"I personally think that every attempt at rehabilitation during our lifetime is unrealistic, but one can still collect material.\"\n\nOn 17 January 1957, he began work at Porsche in Stuttgart in its technical division. He would later represent the company at car exhibitions. He was later put in charge of auto exports to the United States but his wartime criminal conviction prevented him from obtaining a visa for travel to the United States. This would not allow him to maintain this new position.\n\nAs he advanced within Porsche, he was accused by Italian union workers of the Boves Massacre in Italy during World War II. Ferry Porsche personally intervened and promised Peiper a senior management position, but this offer was derailed by the trade unions, who objected to allowing persons convicted of war crimes to serve in the upper management of the company. The strong antipathy to Peiper, his association with Ferry Porsche and the related negative impact on sales in Porsche's biggest market, the United States, forced Porsche's management to dismiss him. On 30 December 1960 Peiper filed suit to compel Porsche to fulfil its promises.\n\nIn court documents Peiper’s attorney stated that Peiper was not a war criminal and that the Allies had used the trials to defame the German people. He asserted that the Nuremberg trial and the \"Malmedy massacre\" trial were merely propaganda. Citing documents published by the anti-Communist activist and McCarthyist, as well as controversial scholar and Holocaust denier, Freda Utley, he asserted that the Malmedy massacre trial defendants had been tortured by the Americans. At the request of the court, Porsche and Peiper reached an agreement to terminate the employment contract, and Peiper received six months of wages as compensation. HIAG's official periodical \"Der Freiwillige\" capitalized on the award and wrote that Peiper had been \"unfairly sentenced\" for war crimes. Peiper became a car sales trainer for Volkswagen.\n\nAt the beginning of the 1960s, the perception and opinion the public had of the Nazi crimes started to change. The German economic recovery did not allow SS men to hide themselves, and holding a high position in society could raise questions that people like Peiper preferred to avoid. The Eichmann and Auschwitz trials in the first half of the 1960s (which had a large audience in West Germany) put a new light on this period. The prosecution was now initiated by the West German authorities themselves, and no longer by the Allies. On the other hand, the statute of limitations for the prosecution of Nazi crimes had been extended several times, which made those who had been involved in these crimes uncomfortable.\n\nIn the early 1960s, Peiper's name came up several times in war crimes trials in Germany. He was mentioned in the proceedings against Karl Wolff, Himmler's senior adjutant, which began in early 1962 and concluded in 1964 with a 15-year sentence. Werner Grothmann, Peiper's successor as Himmler's adjutant, was also under investigation. In both of these proceedings, the court heard testimony from notorious former SS member Erich von dem Bach-Zelewski covering Himmler's pre-invasion designs to \"rid Russia of 30 million Slavic people\" or his pronouncements, following the Minsk killings, that he was \"determined to eliminate the Jews\" (Peiper was with Himmler at that time, but had gone to a field assignment following his brother's death).\n\nIn 1964, Peiper learned that the village of Boves had installed a memorial naming his command as perpetrators of the massacre. He immediately got in touch with others from his unit to coordinate a defense strategy. Mostly it consisted of blaming the Communists for manufacturing false accusations and insisting that the destruction of the village was due to a fierce battle with partisans. In the course of the investigation, they had to file statements.\n\nPeiper claimed his unit massacred no civilians in Boves. He stated that he sent members of his unit to search for the two kidnapped officers taken by partisans into the nearby Bisalta mountains. A platoon was ambushed and, while attempting to rescue it, the Germans came under heavy fire from the partisans. It was the response of the German artillery to this fighting that triggered the fires reported in the village. Peiper claimed that the artillery section remained in Boves to destroy the remaining weapons and ammunition.\n\nOn 23 June 1964, criminal charges were filed against Peiper at the Central Office of the State Justice Administration for the Investigation of National Socialist Crimes in Ludwigsburg having to do with the Boves massacre. The charges included statements from two former Italian partisans who recognised Peiper from a book on the Battle of the Bulge and a photograph of Peiper taken as the village burned below his position. The plaintiffs were represented by Robert W. Kempner, who had been a member of the American council of prosecutors during the Nuremberg trials.\n\nSeparate charges were filed against Peiper in December 1964 by Simon Wiesenthal. The investigations, led by the Attorney General of Stuttgart, involved Peiper being accused of having arrested Jews in Borgo San Dalmazzo and of having deported Jews from Northern Italy.\n\nHowever, neither Klempner nor Wiesenthal were ever able to present the evidence claimed by the Attorney General. In 1967, the case was dismissed for lack of evidence.\n\nPeiper was later called as a witness during the Werner Best trial. He did not deny having had close contact with Himmler, but he managed to avoid being directly implicated in Nazi war crimes by claiming memory failure.\n\nIn 1969, Peiper was a freelance contributor to the magazine \"Auto, Motor und Sport\". In 1972 he moved to Traves in Haute-Saône, France, where he owned property. At that time he was a self-employed translator for the publisher \"Stuttgarter Motor-Buch Verlag\". Under the pen name of \"Rainer Buschmann\", he translated books devoted to military history from English to German.\n\nResiding in France since 1972, Peiper led a quiet and discreet life; however, he continued to use his given name. In 1974, he was identified by a former Communist resistance member of the region who issued a report for the French Communist Party. In 1976, a Communist historian, investigating the Gestapo archives, found the Peiper file. On 21 June, tracts denouncing his presence were distributed in Traves. A day later, an article in the radical left-wing publication \"L'Humanité\" revealed Peiper's presence in Traves and he received threats that his house would be burned down and his dogs killed.\n\nOn receipt of these threats, Peiper, who remained in Traves, sent his family back to Germany. During the night of 13/14 July 1976 (Bastille Day), Peiper's home was attacked. In the ruin, Peiper's charred corpse was found together with a .22 caliber rifle and a pistol. The perpetrators were never identified.\n\nInvestigation found that intruders had cut a wire fence between the house and neighboring properties. All three of Peiper's dogs had been wounded. Traces of shot and spent shell casings consistent with the rifle, shotgun and revolver Peiper had to protect himself with were found outside, suggesting he had fired at the intruders from outside the house. But if they had had guns of their own they may not have fired them at all since no bullets or shot was found at the places Peiper had fired from.\n\nInstead, the attackers had thrown firebombs, including at least one Molotov cocktail, at the house to start the fire, which arson specialists found had been set in three locations at once. Just outside the house they found some clothing belonging to Peiper's wife as well as some personal papers, including his last letter to her, and a binocular. Peiper's body, burnt down to a mere , was found in the remains of his study where the papers would have been kept.\n\nBased on the evidence, investigators with the Dijon \"Police Judiciaire\" concluded that Peiper had heard the intruders enter his property and left the house to fire at them. When that did not prevent the firebombing, he returned to the house in an attempt to save his and his wife's valuables by throwing them out the study window, continuing to fire at the attackers outside. While the body was too badly burned to determine the exact cause of death, the official conclusion was that he died of smoke inhalation in the attempt and not at the hands of the attackers.\n\nErwin Ketelhut, a former Leibstandarte artillery captain who had rented the house to his wartime commander, identified the remains the morning after the fire. Sigurd Peiper wanted her husband's body buried in Germany, so it was transported back there, where by law an autopsy had to be performed. His head was initially missing; when it arrived later it had been cut into sections, splitting the only remaining tooth. Joachim Peiper is buried with his family at St. Anna's Church in the Bavarian village of Schondorf am Ammersee.\n\nA group calling itself The Avengers claimed responsibility for his death; the charred remains of the house briefly became a visitor attraction. The circumstances of his death have led to allegations that it was faked.\n\nPeiper's wife Sigurd (1912–1979) is buried alongside Peiper at Schondorf. The grave stone also bears the name of his brothers Horst (1912–1944) and Hasso (1910–1942), but it is unclear whether they are buried there. The local church community at Schondorf became aware that a Nazi war criminal was buried there in 2013, after receiving a letter from Boves and were initially concerned that it would become a place of pilgrimage for Nazi sympathisers. A small group, the Boves circle, was formed in the village, to hold prayers on every 19th of the month, the day of the Boves massacre. In 2013 a group of citizens from Boves visited Schondorf and prayed at Peiper's grave.\n\nBecause of the murders perpetrated by his unit at Malmedy and other locations, his death sentence and subsequent release, Peiper remained a controversial figure while he lived and after his death. After the end of the war, he continued to be held in high regard by his surviving comrades, many of whom talked of \"Der Peiper\" with admiration and respect. The respect he had garnered among his SS peers helped him to obtain his release from prison after the war ended and to obtain employment.\n\nHistorians Ronald Smelser and Edward J. Davies note that Peiper is \"one of the heroes of the Americans who romanticize the Wehrmacht, and especially the Waffen-SS.\" Within the framework of the Cold War and the McCarthy era, he had been \"transformed from villain to hero.\" His behavior at trial, his physical appearance and his decorations all aided in the process. Smelser and Davies conclude: \"Here in the flesh was the perfect mythical man – both a tragic and heroic figure.\"\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "41408569", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41408569", "title": "John Harrison O'Donnell", "text": "John Harrison O'Donnell\n\nJohn Harrison O'Donnell (April 7, 1838 – October 26, 1912) was a physician and political figure in Manitoba. He was a member of the Legislative Council of Manitoba from 1871 to 1876 and served as its speaker in 1875.\n\nHe was born in Simcoe, Upper Canada, the son of John O'Donnell, a native of Ireland, and was educated at Victoria University and Trinity Medical College. In 1861, he married Hannah Routledge. He practised in St. Catharines, Ontario and Montreal before coming to Manitoba during the Red River Rebellion of 1869. While helping defend John Christian Schultz's property, O'Donnell was taken prisoner. He was a justice of the peace and made out the arrest warrant for Louis Riel when the Wolseley Expedition arrived in 1870. He was the first president of the Provincial Medical Health Board of Manitoba. O'Donnell served as provincial coroner and helped found the Winnipeg General Hospital. He was a professor of sanitary science at the Medical College of the University of Manitoba and served on the council for the University.\n\nHe wrote \"Manitoba as I saw it, from 1869 to date; with flashlights on the First Riel Rebellion\", published in 1909.\n\nHe died in Winnipeg at the age of 74.\n"}
{"id": "11134596", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11134596", "title": "Kent State shootings", "text": "Kent State shootings\n\nThe Kent State shootings (also known as the May 4 massacre or the Kent State massacre) were the shootings on May 4, 1970, of unarmed college students by members of the Ohio National Guard at Kent State University in Kent, Ohio, during a mass protest against the bombing of Cambodia by United States military forces. \nTwenty-eight guardsmen fired approximately 67 rounds over a period of 13 seconds, killing four students and wounding nine others, one of whom suffered permanent paralysis.\n\nSome of the students who were shot had been protesting against the Cambodian Campaign, which President Richard Nixon announced during a television address on April 30 of that year. Other students who were shot had been walking nearby or observing the protest from a distance.\n\nThere was a significant national response to the shootings: hundreds of universities, colleges, and high schools closed throughout the United States due to a student strike of 4 million students, and the event further affected public opinion, at an already socially contentious time, over the role of the United States in the Vietnam War.\n\nRichard Nixon was elected president of the United States in 1968, promising to end the Vietnam War. In November 1969, the My Lai Massacre by American troops of between 347 and 504 civilians in a Vietnamese village was exposed, leading to increased public opposition in the United States to the war. The nature of the draft also changed in December 1969, with the first draft lottery since World War II. This eliminated deferments allowed in the prior draft process, affecting many college students and teachers.\n\nThe war had appeared to be winding down in 1969, so the new invasion of Cambodia angered those who believed it only exacerbated the conflict. Across the U.S., campuses erupted in protests in what \"Time\" called \"a nation-wide student strike\", setting the stage for the events of early May 1970.\n\nDuring the 1966 Homecoming Parade, protesters walked dressed in military paraphernalia with gas masks.\n\nIn the fall of 1968, the Students for a Democratic Society (SDS) and a campus Black Student Organization staged a sit-in to protest police recruiters on campus. 250 black students walked off campus in a successful amnesty bid for the protesters.\n\nOn April 1, 1969, SDS members attempted to enter the administration building with a list of demands where they clashed with police. In response, the university revoked the Kent State SDS chapter charter. On April 16 a disciplinary hearing involving two of the protesters resulted in a confrontation between supporters and opponents of SDS. The Ohio State Highway Patrol was called and 58 were arrested. Four SDS leaders spent six months in prison as a result of the incident.\n\nOn April 10, 1970, Jerry Rubin, a leader of the Youth International Party (Yippie party), spoke on campus. In remarks reported locally, he said \"The first part of the Yippie program is to kill your parents. They are the first oppressors.\" Two weeks after that, Bill Anthrell, an SDS member and former student, distributed flyers to an event in which he said he was going to napalm a dog. The event turned out to be an anti-napalm teach-in.\n\nPresident Nixon announced that the \"Cambodian Incursion\" had been launched by United States combat forces.\n\nAt Kent State University, a demonstration with about 500 students was held on May 1 on the Commons (a grassy knoll in the center of campus traditionally used as a gathering place for rallies or protests). As the crowd dispersed to attend classes by 1 p.m., another rally was planned for May 4 to continue the protest of the expansion of the Vietnam War into Cambodia. There was widespread anger, and many protesters issued a call to \"bring the war home\". A group of history students buried a copy of the United States Constitution to symbolize that Nixon had killed it. A sign was put on a tree asking \"Why is the ROTC building still standing?\"\n\nTrouble exploded in town around midnight, when people left a bar and began throwing beer bottles at police cars and breaking downtown storefronts. In the process they broke a bank window, setting off an alarm. The news spread quickly and it resulted in several bars closing early to avoid trouble. Before long, more people had joined the vandalism.\n\nBy the time police arrived, a crowd of 120 had already gathered. Some people from the crowd lit a small bonfire in the street. The crowd appeared to be a mix of bikers, students, and transient people. A few members of the crowd began to throw beer bottles at the police, and then started yelling obscenities at them. The entire Kent police force was called to duty as well as officers from the county and surrounding communities. Kent Mayor LeRoy Satrom declared a state of emergency, called the office of Ohio Governor Jim Rhodes to seek assistance, and ordered all of the bars closed. The decision to close the bars early increased the size of the angry crowd. Police eventually succeeded in using tear gas to disperse the crowd from downtown, forcing them to move several blocks back to the campus.\n\nCity officials and downtown businesses received threats, and rumors proliferated that radical revolutionaries were in Kent to destroy the city and university. Several merchants reported that they were told that if they did not display anti-war slogans, their business would be burned down. Kent's police chief told the mayor that according to a reliable informant, the ROTC building, the local army recruiting station and post office had been targeted for destruction that night. There were rumors of students with caches of arms, plots to poison the local water supply with LSD, of students building underground tunnels for the purpose of blowing up the town's main store. Mayor Satrom met with Kent city officials and a representative of the Ohio Army National Guard. Following the meeting, Satrom made the decision to call Governor Rhodes and request that the National Guard be sent to Kent, a request that was granted. Because of the rumors and threats, Satrom believed that local officials would not be able to handle future disturbances.\nThe decision to call in the National Guard was made at 5:00 p.m., but the guard did not arrive in town that evening until around 10 p.m. By this time, a large demonstration was under way on the campus, and the campus Reserve Officers' Training Corps (ROTC) building was burning. The arsonists were never apprehended, and no one was injured in the fire. According to the report of the President's Commission on Campus Unrest:\n\nInformation developed by an FBI investigation of the ROTC building fire indicates that, of those who participated actively, a significant portion weren't Kent State students. There is also evidence to suggest that the burning was planned beforehand: railroad flares, a machete, and ice picks are not customarily carried to peaceful rallies. \n\nThere were reports that some Kent firemen and police officers were struck by rocks and other objects while attempting to extinguish the blaze. Several fire engine companies had to be called because protesters carried the fire hose into the Commons and slashed it. The National Guard made numerous arrests, mostly for curfew violations, and used tear gas; at least one student was slightly wounded with a bayonet.\n\nDuring a press conference at the Kent firehouse, an emotional Governor Rhodes pounded on the desk, pounding which can be heard in the recording of his speech. He called the student protesters un-American, referring to them as revolutionaries set on destroying higher education in Ohio.\n\nWe've seen here at the city of Kent especially, probably the most vicious form of campus-oriented violence yet perpetrated by dissident groups. They make definite plans of burning, destroying, and throwing rocks at police and at the National Guard and the Highway Patrol. This is when we're going to use every part of the law enforcement agency of Ohio to drive them out of Kent. We are going to eradicate the problem. We're not going to treat the symptoms. And these people just move from one campus to the other and terrorize the community. They're worse than the brown shirts and the communist element and also the night riders and the vigilantes. They're the worst type of people that we harbor in America. Now I want to say this. They are not going to take over [the] campus. I think that we're up against the strongest, well-trained, militant, revolutionary group that has ever assembled in America.\n\nRhodes also claimed he would obtain a court order declaring a state of emergency that would ban further demonstrations and gave the impression that a situation akin to martial law had been declared; however, he never attempted to obtain such an order.\n\nDuring the day, some students came to downtown Kent to help with cleanup efforts after the rioting, actions which were met with mixed reactions from local businessmen. Mayor Satrom, under pressure from frightened citizens, ordered a curfew until further notice.\n\nAround 8 p.m., another rally was held on the campus Commons. By 8:45 p.m., the Guardsmen used tear gas to disperse the crowd, and the students reassembled at the intersection of Lincoln and Main, holding a sit-in with the hopes of gaining a meeting with Mayor Satrom and University President Robert White. At 11:00 p.m., the Guard announced that a curfew had gone into effect and began forcing the students back to their dorms. A few students were bayoneted by Guardsmen.\n\nOn Monday, May 4, a protest was scheduled to be held at noon, as had been planned three days earlier. University officials attempted to ban the gathering, handing out 12,000 leaflets stating that the event was canceled. Despite these efforts, an estimated 2,000 people gathered on the university's Commons, near Taylor Hall. The protest began with the ringing of the campus's iron Victory Bell (which had historically been used to signal victories in football games) to mark the beginning of the rally, and the first protester began to speak.\n\nCompanies A and C, 1/145th Infantry and Troop G of the 2/107th Armored Cavalry, Ohio National Guard (ARNG), the units on the campus grounds, attempted to disperse the students. The legality of the dispersal was later debated at a subsequent wrongful death and injury trial. On appeal, the United States Court of Appeals for the Sixth Circuit ruled that authorities did indeed have the right to disperse the crowd.\n\nThe dispersal process began late in the morning with campus patrolman Harold Rice riding in a National Guard Jeep, approaching the students to read an order to disperse or face arrest. The protesters responded by throwing rocks, striking one campus patrolman and forcing the Jeep to retreat.\n\nJust before noon, the Guard returned and again ordered the crowd to disperse. When most of the crowd refused, the Guard used tear gas. Because of wind, the tear gas had little effect in dispersing the crowd, and some launched a second volley of rocks toward the Guard's line and chanted \"Pigs off campus!\" The students lobbed the tear gas canisters back at the National Guardsmen, who wore gas masks.\n\nWhen it became clear that the crowd was not going to disperse, a group of 77 National Guard troops from A Company and Troop G, with bayonets fixed on their M1 Garand rifles, began to advance upon the hundreds of protesters. As the guardsmen advanced, the protesters retreated up and over Blanket Hill, heading out of the Commons area. Once over the hill, the students, in a loose group, moved northeast along the front of Taylor Hall, with some continuing toward a parking lot in front of Prentice Hall (slightly northeast of and perpendicular to Taylor Hall). The guardsmen pursued the protesters over the hill, but rather than veering left as the protesters had, they continued straight, heading toward an athletic practice field enclosed by a chain link fence. Here they remained for about 10 minutes, unsure of how to get out of the area short of retracing their path. During this time, the bulk of the students congregated to the left and front of the guardsmen, approximately away, on the veranda of Taylor Hall. Others were scattered between Taylor Hall and the Prentice Hall parking lot, while still others were standing in the parking lot, or dispersing through the lot as they had been previously ordered.\n\nWhile on the practice field, the guardsmen generally faced the parking lot which was about away. At one point, some of them knelt and aimed their weapons toward the parking lot, then stood up again. At one point the guardsmen formed a loose huddle and appeared to be talking to one another. They had cleared the protesters from the Commons area, and many students had left, but some stayed and were still angrily confronting the soldiers, some throwing rocks and tear gas canisters. About 10 minutes later, the guardsmen began to retrace their steps back up the hill toward the Commons area. Some of the students on the Taylor Hall veranda began to move slowly toward the soldiers as they passed over the top of the hill and headed back into the Commons.\n\nDuring their climb back to Blanket Hill, several guardsmen stopped and half-turned to keep their eyes on the students in the Prentice Hall parking lot. At 12:24 p.m., according to eyewitnesses, a sergeant named Myron Pryor turned and began firing at the crowd of students with his .45 pistol. A number of guardsmen nearest the students also turned and fired their rifles at the students. In all, at least 29 of the 77 guardsmen claimed to have fired their weapons, using an estimate of 67 rounds of ammunition. The shooting was determined to have lasted only 13 seconds, although John Kifner reported in \"The New York Times\" that \"it appeared to go on, as a solid volley, for perhaps a full minute or a little longer.\" The question of why the shots were fired remains widely debated.\n\nThe adjutant general of the Ohio National Guard told reporters that a sniper had fired on the guardsmen, which remains a debated allegation. Many guardsmen later testified that they were in fear for their lives, which was questioned partly because of the distance between them and the students killed or wounded. \"Time\" magazine later concluded that \"triggers were not pulled accidentally at Kent State.\" The President's Commission on Campus Unrest avoided probing the question of why the shootings happened. Instead, it harshly criticized both the protesters and the Guardsmen, but it concluded that \"the indiscriminate firing of rifles into a crowd of students and the deaths that followed were unnecessary, unwarranted, and inexcusable.\"\nThe shootings killed four students and wounded nine. Two of the four students killed, Allison Krause and Jeffrey Miller, had participated in the protest. The other two, Sandra Scheuer and William Knox Schroeder, had been walking from one class to the next at the time of their deaths. Schroeder was also a member of the campus ROTC battalion. Of those wounded, none was closer than to the guardsmen. Of those killed, the nearest (Miller) was away, and their average distance from the guardsmen was .\n\nSeveral present related what they saw.\nUnidentified speaker 1:\nSuddenly, they turned around, got on their knees, as if they were ordered to, they did it all together, aimed. And personally, I was standing there saying, they're not going to shoot, they can't do that. If they are going to shoot, it's going to be blank.\n\nAnother witness was Chrissie Hynde, the future lead singer of The Pretenders and a student at Kent State University at the time. In her 2015 autobiography she described what she saw:\n\nGerald Casale, the future bassist/singer of Devo, also witnessed the shootings. While speaking to the Vermont Review in 2005, he recalled what he saw:\n\nImmediately after the shootings, many angry students were ready to launch an all-out attack on the National Guard. Many faculty members, led by geology professor and faculty marshal Glenn Frank, pleaded with the students to leave the Commons and to not give in to violent escalation:\n\nI don't care whether you've never listened to anyone before in your lives. I am begging you right now. If you don't disperse right now, they're going to move in, and it can only be a slaughter. Would you please listen to me? Jesus Christ, I don't want to be a part of this ... !\n\nAfter 20 minutes of speaking, the students left the Commons, as ambulance personnel tended to the wounded, and the Guard left the area. Professor Frank's son, also present that day, said, \"He absolutely saved my life and hundreds of others\".\n\n\"Killed (and approximate distance from the National Guard):\"\n\n\"Wounded (and approximate distance from the National Guard):\"\n\nIn the \"President's Commission on Campus Unrest\" (pp. 273–274) they mistakenly list Thomas V. Grace, who is Thomas Mark Grace's father, as the Thomas Grace injured.\n\nAll those shot were students in good standing at the university.\n\nAlthough initial newspaper reports had inaccurately stated that a number of National Guard members had been killed or seriously injured, only one Guardsman, Sgt. Lawrence Shafer, was injured enough to require medical treatment, approximately 10 to 15 minutes prior to the shootings. Shafer is also mentioned in an FBI memo from November 15, 1973, which was prepared by the Cleveland Office and is referred to by Field Office file # 44-703. It reads as follows:\n\nUpon contacting appropriate officers of the Ohio National Guard at Ravenna and Akron, Ohio, regarding ONG radio logs and the availability of service record books, the respective ONG officer advised that any inquiries concerning the Kent State University incident should be directed to the Adjutant General, ONG, Columbus, Ohio. Three persons were interviewed regarding a reported conversation by Sgt Lawrence Shafer, ONG, that Shafer had bragged about \"taking a bead\" on Jeffrey Miller at the time of the ONG shooting and each interviewee was unable to substantiate such a conversation.\n\nBut in an interview broadcast in 1986 on the ABC News documentary series \"Our World\", Shafer identified the person that he fired at as student Joseph Lewis, who was shot and wounded in the attack.\n\nPhotographs of the dead and wounded at Kent State that were distributed in newspapers and periodicals worldwide amplified sentiment against the United States' invasion of Cambodia and the Vietnam War in general. In particular, the camera of Kent State photojournalism student John Filo captured a 14-year-old runaway, Mary Ann Vecchio, screaming over the dead body of Jeffrey Miller, who had been shot in the mouth. The photograph, which won a Pulitzer Prize, became the most enduring image of the events, and one of the more enduring images of the anti-Vietnam War movement.\n\nThe shootings led to protests on college campuses throughout the United States, and a student strike, causing more than 450 campuses across the country to close with both violent and non-violent demonstrations. A common sentiment was expressed by students at New York University with a banner hung out of a window that read, \"They Can't Kill Us All.\" On May 8, 11 people were bayonetted at the University of New Mexico by the New Mexico National Guard in a confrontation with student protesters. Also on May 8, an antiwar protest at New York's Federal Hall National Memorial held at least partly in reaction to the Kent State killings was met with a counter-rally of pro-Nixon construction workers (organized by Peter J. Brennan, later appointed U.S. Labor Secretary by President Nixon), resulting in the Hard Hat Riot. Shortly after the shootings took place, the Urban Institute conducted a national study that concluded the Kent State shooting was the first nationwide student strike in U.S. history; over 4 million students protested and hundreds of American colleges and universities closed during the student strikes. The Kent State campus remained closed for six weeks.\n\nJust five days after the shootings, 100,000 people demonstrated in Washington, D.C., against the war and the killing of unarmed student protesters. Ray Price, Nixon's chief speechwriter from 1969 to 1974, recalled the Washington demonstrations saying, \"The city was an armed camp. The mobs were smashing windows, slashing tires, dragging parked cars into intersections, even throwing bedsprings off overpasses into the traffic down below. This was the quote, student protest. That's not student protest, that's civil war.\" Not only was the President taken to Camp David for two days for his own protection, but Charles Colson (Counsel to President Nixon from 1969 to 1973) stated that the military was called up to protect the Nixon Administration from the angry students; he recalled that \"The 82nd Airborne was in the basement of the executive office building, so I went down just to talk to some of the guys and walk among them, and they're lying on the floor leaning on their packs and their helmets and their cartridge belts and their rifles cocked and you're thinking, 'This can't be the United States of America. This is not the greatest free democracy in the world. This is a nation at war with itself.'\"\n\nPresident Nixon and his administration's public reaction to the shootings was perceived by many in the anti-war movement as callous. Then National Security Advisor Henry Kissinger said the President was \"pretending indifference\". Stanley Karnow noted in his \"Vietnam: A History\" that \"The [Nixon] administration initially reacted to this event with wanton insensitivity. Nixon's press secretary, Ron Ziegler, whose statements were carefully programmed, referred to the deaths as a reminder that 'when dissent turns to violence, it invites tragedy.'\" Three days before the shootings, Nixon had talked of \"bums\" who were antiwar protestors on United States campuses, to which the father of Allison Krause stated on national TV \"My child was not a bum.\"\n\nKarnow further documented that at 4:15 a.m. on May 9, 1970, the president met about 30 student dissidents conducting a vigil at the Lincoln Memorial, whereupon Nixon \"treated them to a clumsy and condescending monologue, which he made public in an awkward attempt to display his benevolence.\" Nixon had been trailed by White House Deputy for Domestic Affairs Egil Krogh, who saw it differently, saying, \"I thought it was a very significant and major effort to reach out.\" In any regard, neither side could convince the other and after meeting with the students, Nixon expressed that those in the anti-war movement were the pawns of foreign communists. After the student protests, Nixon asked H. R. Haldeman to consider the Huston Plan, which would have used illegal procedures to gather information on the leaders of the anti-war movement. Only the resistance of J. Edgar Hoover stopped the plan.\n\nA Gallup Poll taken immediately after the shootings reportedly showed that 58 percent of respondents blamed the students, 11 percent blamed the National Guard and 31 percent expressed no opinion. However, there was wide discussion as to whether these were legally justified shootings of American citizens, and whether the protests or the decisions to ban them were constitutional. These debates served to further galvanize uncommitted opinion by the terms of the discourse. The term \"massacre\" was applied to the shootings by some individuals and media sources, as it had been used for the Boston Massacre of 1770, in which five were killed and several more wounded.\n\nStudents from Kent State and other universities often got a hostile reaction upon returning home. Some were told that more students should have been killed to teach student protesters a lesson; some students were disowned by their families.\n\nOn May 14, ten days after the Kent State shootings, two students were killed (and 12 wounded) by police at Jackson State University, an historically black university (\"HBCU\"), in Jackson, Mississippi, under similar circumstances—the Jackson State killings—but that event did not arouse the same nationwide attention as the Kent State shootings.\n\nOn June 13, 1970, as a consequence of the killings of protesting students at Kent State and Jackson State, President Nixon established the President's Commission on Campus Unrest, known as the Scranton Commission, which he charged to study the dissent, disorder, and violence breaking out on college and university campuses across the nation.\n\nThe Commission issued its findings in a September 1970 report that concluded that the Ohio National Guard shootings on May 4, 1970, were unjustified. The report said:\n\nEven if the guardsmen faced danger, it was not a danger that called for lethal force. The 61 shots by 28 guardsmen certainly cannot be justified. Apparently, no order to fire was given, and there was inadequate fire control discipline on Blanket Hill. The Kent State tragedy must mark the last time that, as a matter of course, loaded rifles are issued to guardsmen confronting student demonstrators.\n\nIn September 1970, twenty-four students and one faculty member, identified from photographs, were indicted on charges connected with the May 4 demonstration at the ROTC building fire three days before; they became known as the \"Kent 25\". Five cases, all related to the burning of the ROTC building, went to trial: one non-student defendant was convicted on one charge and two other non-students pleaded guilty. One other defendant was acquitted, and charges were dismissed against the last. In December 1971, all charges against the remaining twenty were dismissed for lack of evidence.\n\nEight of the guardsmen were indicted by a grand jury. The guardsmen claimed to have fired in self-defense, a claim that was generally accepted by the criminal justice system. In 1974 U.S. District Judge Frank J. Battisti dismissed civil rights charges against all eight on the basis that the prosecution's case was too weak to warrant a trial.\n\nCivil actions were also attempted against the guardsmen, the state of Ohio, and the president of Kent State. The federal court civil action for wrongful death and injury, brought by the victims and their families against Governor Rhodes, the President of Kent State, and the National Guardsmen, resulted in unanimous verdicts for all defendants on all claims after an eleven-week trial. The judgment on those verdicts was reversed by the Court of Appeals for the Sixth Circuit on the ground that the federal trial judge had mishandled an out-of-court threat against a juror. On remand, the civil case was settled in return for payment of a total of $675,000 to all plaintiffs by the state of Ohio (explained by the State as the estimated cost of defense) and the defendants' agreement to state publicly that they regretted what had happened:\n\nIn the succeeding years, many in the anti-war movement have referred to the shootings as \"murders,\" although no criminal convictions were obtained against any National Guardsman. In December 1970, journalist I. F. Stone wrote the following:\n\nTo those who think murder is too strong a word, one may recall that even Agnew three days after the Kent State shootings used the word in an interview on the David Frost show in Los Angeles. Agnew admitted in response to a question that what happened at Kent State was murder, \"but not first degree\" since there was – as Agnew explained from his own training as a lawyer – \"no premeditation but simply an over-response in the heat of anger that results in a killing; it's a murder. It's not premeditated and it certainly can't be condoned.\"\n\nThe Kent State incident forced the National Guard to re-examine its methods of crowd control. The only equipment the guardsmen had to disperse demonstrators that day were M1 Garand rifles loaded with .30-06 FMJ ammunition, 12 Ga. pump shotguns, bayonets, and CS gas grenades. In the years that followed, the U.S. Army began developing less lethal means of dispersing demonstrators (such as rubber bullets), and changed its crowd control and riot tactics to attempt to avoid casualties amongst the demonstrators. Many of the crowd-control changes brought on by the Kent State events are used today by police and military forces in the United States when facing similar situations, such as the 1992 Los Angeles riots and civil disorder during the aftermath of Hurricane Katrina in 2005.\n\nOne outgrowth of the events was the Center for Peaceful Change established at Kent State University in 1971 \"as a living memorial to the events of May 4, 1970\". Now known as The Center for Applied Conflict Management (CACM), it developed one of the earliest conflict resolution undergraduate degree programs in the United States. The Institute for the Study and Prevention of Violence, an interdisciplinary program dedicated to violence prevention, was established in 1998.\n\nAccording to FBI reports, one part-time student, Terry Norman, was already noted by student protesters as an informant for both campus police and the Akron FBI branch. Norman was present during the May 4 protests, taking photographs to identify student leaders, while carrying a sidearm and wearing a gas mask.\n\nIn 1970, FBI director J. Edgar Hoover responded to questions from then-Congressman John M. Ashbrook by denying that Norman had ever worked for the FBI, a statement Norman disputed. On August 13, 1973, Indiana Senator Birch Bayh sent a memo to then-governor of Ohio John J. Gilligan suggesting that Norman may have fired the first shot, based on testimony he [Bayh] received from guardsmen who claimed that a gunshot fired from the vicinity of the protesters instigated the Guard to open fire on the students.\n\nThroughout the years since the shootings, debate has continued on about the events of May 4, 1970.\n\nTwo of the survivors have since died—James Russell on June 23, 2007, and Robert Stamps in June 2008.\n\nIn 2007 Alan Canfora, one of the wounded students, located a static-filled copy of an audio tape of the shootings in a Yale library archive. The original 30-minute reel-to-reel audio tape recording was made by Terry Strubbe, a Kent State communications student who turned on his recorder and put its microphone in his dormitory window overlooking the campus. At that time, Canfora asserted that an amplified version of the tape reveals the order to shoot, \"Right here! Get Set! Point! Fire!\". Lawrence Shafer, a guardsman who admitted he fired during the shootings and was one of those indicted in the 1974 federal criminal action with charges subsequently dismissed, told the Kent-Ravenna \"Record-Courier\" newspaper in May 2007: \"I never heard any command to fire. That's all I can say on that.\" Referring to the assertion that the tape reveals the order, Shafer went on to say, \"That's not to say there may not have been, but with all the racket and noise, I don't know how anyone could have heard anything that day.\" Shafer also said that \"point\" would not have been part of a proper command to open fire.\n\nA 2010 audio analysis of the Strubbe tape by Stuart Allen and Tom Owen, who were described by the Cleveland \"Plain Dealer\" as \"nationally respected forensic audio experts,\" concluded that the guardsmen were given an order to fire. It is the only known recording to capture the events leading up to the shootings. According to the \"Plain Dealer\" description of the enhanced recording, a male voice yells \"Guard!\" Several seconds pass. Then, \"All right, prepare to fire!\" \"Get down!,\" someone shouts urgently, presumably in the crowd. Finally, \"Guard! ...\" followed two seconds later by a long, booming volley of gunshots. The entire spoken sequence lasts 17 seconds. Further analysis of the audiotape revealed that what sounded like four pistol shots and a confrontation occurred approximately 70 seconds before the National Guard opened fire. According to \"The Plain Dealer\", this new analysis raised questions about the role of Terry Norman, a Kent State student who was an FBI informant and known to be carrying a pistol during the disturbance. Alan Canfora said it was premature to reach any conclusions.\n\nIn April 2012, the United States Department of Justice determined that there were \"insurmountable legal and evidentiary barriers\" to reopening the case. Also in 2012, the FBI concluded the Strubbe tape was inconclusive because what has been described as pistol shots may have been slamming doors and that voices heard were unintelligible. Despite this, organizations of survivors and current Kent State students continue to believe the Strubbe tape proves the Guardsmen were given a military order to fire and are petitioning State of Ohio and United States government officials to reopen the case using independent analysis. The organizations do not desire to prosecute or sue individual guardsmen, believing they are also victims.\n\nOne of these groups, the Kent State Truth Tribunal, was founded in 2010 by the family of Allison Krause, along with Emily Kunstler, to demand accountability by the United States government for the massacre. In 2014 KSTT announced their request for an independent review by the United Nations Human Rights Committee under the International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights, the human rights treaty ratified by the United States.\n\nIn January 1970, only months before the shootings, a work of land art, \"Partially Buried Woodshed\", was produced on the Kent State campus by Robert Smithson. Shortly after the events, an inscription was added that recontextualized the work in such a way that some people associate it with the event.\n\nEach May 4 from 1971 to 1975, the Kent State University administration sponsored an official commemoration of the shootings. Upon the university's announcement in 1976 that it would no longer sponsor such commemorations, the May 4 Task Force, a group made up of students and community members, was formed for this purpose. The group has organized a commemoration on the university's campus each year since 1976; events generally include a silent march around the campus, a candlelight vigil, a ringing of the Victory Bell in memory of those killed and injured, speakers (always including eyewitnesses and family members), and music.\n\nOn May 12, 1977, a tent city was erected and maintained for a period of more than 60 days by a group of several dozen protesters on the Kent State campus. The protesters, led by the May 4 Task Force but also including community members and local clergy, were attempting to prevent the university from erecting a gymnasium annex on part of the site where the shootings had occurred seven years earlier, which they believed would obscure the historical event. Law enforcement finally brought the tent city to an end on July 12, 1977, after the forced removal and arrest of 193 people. The event gained national press coverage and the issue was taken to the U.S. Supreme Court.\n\nIn 1978, American artist George Segal was commissioned by the Mildred Andrews Fund of Cleveland, in agreement with the University, to create a bronze sculpture in commemoration of the shootings, but before its completion, the sculpture was refused by the university administration, who deemed its subject matter (the biblical Abraham poised to sacrifice his son Isaac) too controversial. Segal's completed cast-from-life bronze sculpture, \"Abraham and Isaac: In Memory of May 4, 1970, Kent State\", was instead accepted in 1979 by Princeton University and currently resides there between the university chapel and library.\n\nIn 1990, twenty years after the shootings, a memorial commemorating the events of May 4 was dedicated on the campus on a 2.5-acre (1.0 ha) site overlooking the University's Commons where the student protest took place. Even the construction of the monument became controversial and, in the end, only 7% of the design was constructed. The memorial does not contain the names of those killed or wounded in the shooting; under pressure, the university agreed to install a plaque near it with the names.\n\nIn 1999, at the urging of relatives of the four students killed in 1970, the university constructed an individual memorial for each of the students in the parking lot between Taylor and Prentice halls. Each of the four memorials is located on the exact spot where the student fell, mortally wounded. They are surrounded by a raised rectangle of granite featuring six lightposts approximately four feet high, with each student's name engraved on a triangular marble plaque in one corner.\n\nIn 2004, a simple stone memorial was erected at Plainview-Old Bethpage John F. Kennedy High School in Plainview, New York, which Jeffrey Miller had attended.\n\nOn May 3, 2007, just prior to the yearly commemoration, an Ohio Historical Society marker was dedicated by KSU president Lester Lefton. It is located between Taylor Hall and Prentice Hall between the parking lot and the 1990 memorial. Also in 2007, a memorial service was held at Kent State in honor of James Russell, one of the wounded, who died in 2007 of a heart attack.\n\nFront side of Ohio Historical Marker #67-8:\n\nBack side of Ohio Historical Marker #67-8:\n\nIn 2008, Kent State University announced plans to construct a May 4 Visitors' Center in a room in Taylor Hall. The center was officially opened in May 2013, on the anniversary of the shootings.\n\nA area was listed as \"Kent State Shootings Site\" on the National Register of Historic Places on February 23, 2010. Places normally cannot be added to the Register until they have been significant for at least fifty years, and only cases of \"exceptional importance\" can be added sooner. The entry was announced as the featured listing in the National Park Service's weekly list of March 5, 2010. Contributing resources in the site are: Taylor Hall, the Victory Bell, Lilac Lane and Boulder Marker, The Pagoda, Solar Totem, and the Prentice Hall Parking Lot. The National Park Service stated the site \"is considered nationally significant given its broad effects in causing the largest student strike in United States history, affecting public opinion about the Vietnam War, creating a legal precedent established by the trials subsequent to the shootings, and for the symbolic status the event has attained as a result of a government confronting protesting citizens with unreasonable deadly force.\"\n\nEvery year on the anniversary of the shootings, notably on the 40th anniversary in 2010, students and others who were present share remembrances of the day and the impact it has had on their lives. Among them are Nick Saban, head coach of the Alabama Crimson Tide football team who was a freshman in 1970; surviving student Tom Grace, who was shot in the foot; Kent State faculty member Jerry Lewis; photographer John Filo; and others.\n\nIn 2016, the site of the shootings was named as a National Historic Landmark.\n\nIn September 2016, Kent State University Libraries' department of Special Collections and Archives began a project, sponsored by a grant from the National Archives' National Historical Publications and Records Commission, to digitize materials related to the actions and reactions surrounding the shootings.\n\n\n\n\n\nThe best-known popular culture response to the deaths at Kent State was the protest song \"Ohio\", written by Neil Young for Crosby, Stills, Nash & Young. They promptly recorded the song, and preview discs (acetates) were rushed to major radio stations, although the group already had a hit song, \"Teach Your Children\", on the charts at the time. Within two and a half weeks of the Kent State shootings, \"Ohio\" was receiving national airplay. Crosby, Stills, and Nash visited the Kent State campus for the first time on May 4, 1997, where they performed the song for the May 4 Task Force's 27th annual commemoration.\n\nThere are a number of lesser-known musical tributes, including the following:\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "48900102", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48900102", "title": "Laura Deming", "text": "Laura Deming\n\nLaura Deming is a venture capitalist. Her work focuses on life extension, and using biological research to reduce or reverse the effects of aging.\n\nLaura Deming is the daughter of John and Tabitha Deming; she grew up in New Zealand. Deming and her brother, Trey, were homeschooled; she says she taught herself \"calculus and probability and statistics, and French literature and history.\" At age 8, Deming became interested in the biology of aging, and at age 12 she joined the lab of Cynthia Kenyon at the University of California, San Francisco. Kenyon successfully increased the lifespan of the worm C. elegans by a factor of ten through genetic engineering. Deming was accepted to MIT at age 14 and studied physics, but later dropped out to accept the $100,000 Thiel Fellowship and start a venture capital firm. Deming was one of only two women in the 2011 initial class of Thiel Fellows.\n\nDeming is a partner at and founder of The Longevity Fund, a venture capital firm focused on aging and life extension. The firm raised $4 million in its first fund and $22 million for its second fund, in 2017. The Longevity Fund investments include Unity Biotechnology, which develops senolytic drugs targeting diseases of aging, Navitor Pharmaceuticals, and Metacrine.\n\nDeming believes that science can be used to create biological immortality in humans, and has said that ending aging \"is a lot closer than you might think\". She has been featured in \"30 Under 30\" by Forbes Magazine, and was one of the stars of \"The Age of Ageing\", a documentary by National Geographic. She also spoke at the 2012 Singularity Summit and at the 2013 TEDMED conference.\n\nIn 2018, Deming launched Age1, a four-month startup accelerator program focused on founders creating longevity companies. The program graduated its first class of six on October 10, 2018, with companies including Fauna Bio, a startup using the biology of hibernation to aid in heart attack and stroke recovery, and Spring Discovery, focused on accelerating aging therapeutic research with machine learning. In August 2018, Deming also began advising the newly launched Pioneer Fund, a fund designed to find talent and \"lost Einsteins\" around the world, for projects in longevity. \n\n\n"}
{"id": "25945685", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25945685", "title": "List of cemeteries in the United States", "text": "List of cemeteries in the United States\n\nThis is a list of cemeteries in the United States, with selected notable interments. The list includes both active and historic sites, and does not include pet cemeteries. At the end of the list by states, cemeteries in territories of the United States are included.\nThe list is for notable cemeteries and is not an attempt to list all the cemeteries in the United States.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "58311020", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58311020", "title": "Nicholas Waggoner Browning", "text": "Nicholas Waggoner Browning\n\nNicholas Waggoner Browning (born February 9, 1992) is an American convicted murderer from Cockeysville, Maryland. He is currently serving four life sentences for murdering his parents, John and Tamara Browning; and his two younger brothers, Gregory, 13, and Benjamin, 11; in February 2008, when he was 15 years old. The murders were the subject of a documentary on \"Killer Kids\" titled \"Spoiled Rotten and Bad Dream\"\n\nBrowning was born in Maryland on February 9, 1992. Nicholas's father, John W. Browning, was a prominent local attorney, and his mother, Tamara, was a homemaker. Josh had two younger brothers, Benjamin and Gregory. \n\nNicholas was an honor student and boy scout, who attended Dulaney High School in nearby Timonium. He also played varsity golf and lacrosse and was a skier.\n\nOn the evening of February 1, 2008, a week before his 16th birthday, Nicholas Browning went into his house after other family members were in bed and shot each of them using a gun belonging to his father.\n\nAccording to police reports, he confessed to the killings of his family on the following Sunday and was charged with four counts of first-degree murder. He was denied bail at a hearing later that day.\n\nUnder a plea agreement reached with prosecutors, Browning pled guilty in January 2009 to four counts of first-degree murder and was sentenced to four life terms in prison, with two life terms to be served consecutively. Browning may become eligible for parole in 2031 after serving 23 years of his sentence with good behavior.\n\nBrowning is currently incarcerated at North Branch Correctional Institution in Cumberland, Maryland. He was denied a sentence reduction in 2014. \n"}
{"id": "30869071", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30869071", "title": "Oto Iskandar di Nata", "text": "Oto Iskandar di Nata\n\nRaden Oto Iskandar di Nata (Sundanese: ; also spelled\nRaden Otto Iskandardinata, called Otista, nicknamed Si Jalak Harupat; 31 March 1897 – 20 December 1945) was a fighter for Indonesia's liberation from Dutch rule, and an Indonesian State Minister. He is a National Hero of Indonesia.\n\nIn his activities during the period before independence, Otto had served as Deputy Chairperson of the Bandung branch of Budi Utomo between 1921 and 1924, as well as Deputy Chairperson of Budi Utomo in Pekalongan branch in 1924. At that time, he became a member of Pekalongan's Gemeenteraad (\"City Council\") representing Budi Utomo.\n\nOto was also active in Sundanese cultural organizations called Paguyuban Pasundan. He became Secretary of the Executive Board in 1928, and became chairman between 1929 and 1942. The organization is engaged in education, socio-cultural, political, economic, youth and women's empowerment.\n\nOto also became a member of the Volksraad (\"People's Council\", equivalent to present-day DPR) between 1930 and 1941.\n\nDuring the Japanese occupation, he became the head of the Tjahaja newspaper. He later became a member of the BPUPKI and PPKI formed by the Japanese colonial government as institutions that helped preparation for Indonesia's independence.\n\nBased on the information given by witnesses, his murder took place on the beach of Mauk in Tangerang, and his body was thrown into the sea. He was abducted by youths and beheaded on a beach in present-day Mauk District, Tangerang Regency in Banten (formerly under West Java provincial administration) by a group called \"The Black Troop\" (). His body was said to have been dumped into Java Sea, explaining why it was never found.\n\nOn 21 December 1952, his funeral was held \"in absentia\". His body was replaced by sand and water taken from the beach, and interred in a cemetery in Lembang, West Bandung Regency. He was designated as National Hero of Indonesia in 1973, legally declaring him dead, as the title is posthumous.\n\nHis image appears on the 2004–2016 series of the 20,000 Indonesian rupiah note. His name is now used as street name in various cities in Indonesia on different formats; Otto Iskandardinata, Otto Iskandar Dinata, Otista, and \"Jalak Harupat\". The latter is a Sundanese-mythical strong and courageous cock. It is used as name for Jalak Harupat Stadium, located in his hometown.\n\n"}
{"id": "25849820", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25849820", "title": "Peter Beyer", "text": "Peter Beyer\n\nPeter Beyer (born 9 May 1952) is a German Professor for Cell Biology at the Faculty of Biology of the University of Freiburg. He is known as co-inventor of Golden Rice, together with Ingo Potrykus from the ETH Zurich.\n\nPeter Beyer studied Biology at the universities of Marburg and Freiburg. In 1981 he was awarded his doctorate in Cell Biology from the University of Freiburg and received his postdoctoral lecture qualification in 2000. Afterwards he was appointed Professor for Cell Biology at the Faculty of Biology. \nSince 2001 Beyer is Vice-Director Plant Biotechnology of the Centre for Applied Biosciences (ZAB) in Freiburg.\n\nStarting 2005 Peter Beyer became Principal Investigator in the ProVitaMinRice Consortium, a program funded by the Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation and one of the selected Grand Challenges in Global Health projects. The project «Engineering Rice for High Beta-Carotene, Vitamin E and Enhanced Iron and Zinc Bioavailability», designed to further biofortify Golden Rice with other vital micronutrients has been awarded 11.3 Million USD to achieve its goals. Research is handled by a consortium of seven laboratories in a number of countries.\n\nApart from Beyer's group the project involves groups from Baylor College of Medicine, Michigan State University, the International Rice Research Institute and PhilRice, both in the Philippines, the Cuu Long Delta Rice Research Institute, and the Chinese University of Hong Kong.\n\nPeter Beyer’s research focusses on the biochemistry, molecular biology and regulation of the plant [prenyl-lipid metabolism (sterols, vitamins E and K, carotenoids. Besides basic science the group focuses on applied pathway engineering to improve the nutritional value of crop plants.\nPeter Beyer pioneered the metabolic engineering of plants with engineering the beta-carotene biosynthetic pathway into rice endosperm, published 2000 in \"Science\", which is widely appreciated as one of the success stories of Synthetic Biology. Consequently, Beyer is PI in the Centre for Biological Signaling Studies, which is devoted to this novel field in science.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "43502006", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43502006", "title": "Rajje (elephant)", "text": "Rajje (elephant)\n\nIn late September, 1963, a 12-year-old, 3,000-pound female dancing Asian elephant named Rajje (alternately reported as Raji, Little Rajjee, among other variations) rebelled against her trainer during a performance in a shopping center circus, and escaped into the streets of Lansing, Michigan aggravated by the frenzied pursuit of nearly 4,000 local residents.\n\nThe incident ended tragically with the shooting of the elephant by local police. Provoked by the growing crowd, her rampage took her through the Men's wear, sporting goods and gift departments of a local Arlan's discount store, before leading police on a two-mile chase in which Rajje knocked down and injured a 67-year-old man, tried to move a car, and caused thousands of dollars in damage before being subdued.\n\nLife Magazine quoted Rajje's trainer William Pratt at the scene as shouting, \"Damn these people [...] They wouldn't leave her alone.\"\n\nThe incident was widely reported, including a photospread in Life Magazine. While the Lansing State Journal coverage stresses the danger of the incident during the \"Big Beast\" rampage, the Detroit Free Press notes witnesses cried out \"Murderers! Murderers!\" as police fired eight shots.\n\nAuthor Nelson Algren cites the injustice and sad end of the pursuit of \"Raji, the Pixie-Eared Elephant\" in continuity with the ambush of Bonnie Parker and Clyde Barrow in his introduction to a 1968 biography of the outlaws. Then teenage Lansing residents who had goaded the elephant on recalled the incident with sober regret in a local newspaper retrospective in 2011.\n"}
{"id": "20775995", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20775995", "title": "School Day of Non-violence and Peace", "text": "School Day of Non-violence and Peace\n\nThe School Day of Non-violence and Peace (or DENIP, acronym from Catalan-Balearic: \"Dia Escolar de la No-violència i la Pau\"), is an observance founded by the Spanish poet \"Llorenç Vidal Vidal\" in Majorca in 1964 as a starting point and support for a pacifying and non-violent education of a permanent character. Different as the first proposed by the UNESCO \"Armistice Day\" in 1948, the \"School Day of Non-violence and Peace\" (DENIP) is observed on January 30 or thereabouts every year, on the anniversary of the death of Mahatma Gandhi, in schools all over the world. In countries with a Southern Hemisphere school calendar, it can be observed on 30 March. Its basic and permanent message is: \"Universal love, non-violence and peace. Universal love is better than egoism, non-violence is better than violence, and peace is better than war\". In Navarra the slogan for the 2009 was \"above all, we are friends\" (Spanish:\"Por encima de todo, somos amigos\").\nDENIP and World Association of Early Childhood Educators (AMEI-WAECE) collaborate to celebrate this event in the schools of the latter worldwide.\nFormer Director-General of UNESCO, Federico Mayor Zaragoza, has been promoting during decades the School Day of Non-violence and Peace, saying in Global Education Magazine: \"We can not achieve a sustainable development without a culture of peace\". \n\n\n"}
{"id": "2064637", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2064637", "title": "Seni Pramoj", "text": "Seni Pramoj\n\nMom Rajawongse Seni Pramoj (, , ; 26 May 190528 July 1997) was three times the prime minister of Thailand, a politician in the Democrat Party, lawyer, diplomat and professor. A descendant of the Thai royal family, he was the great-grandson of King Rama II. His final two terms as PM sandwiched the only term of his brother, Kukrit Pramoj.\n\nBorn a son of Prince Khamrob and mother Daeng (Bunnag), he was educated at Trent College in Derbyshire before obtaining a BA second class honours degree in jurisprudence from Worcester College, Oxford. He continued his studies at Gray's Inn, London, receiving first honours. After returning to Thailand he studied Thai Law, and following six months as a trainee at the Supreme Court, he started to work at the Justice Civil Court. Later, he was transferred to the Foreign Ministry and in 1940 was sent to the United States as Thai ambassador.\n\nJapanese forces invaded Thailand early on the morning of 8 December 1941, shortly after the attack on the United States at Pearl Harbor, Hawaii. The Prime Minister, Field Marshal Plaek Phibunsongkhram, ordered a ceasefire at noon, entering into an armistice that allowed the Japanese to use Thai military installations in their invasion of Malaya and Burma. On 21 December, a formal military alliance with Japan was concluded.\n\nThe Phibun government declared war on Great Britain and the United States on 25 January 1942. Although the Thai ambassador in London delivered Thailand's declaration of war to the British administration, Seni refused to do so. Instead, he considered organising a resistance movement in the United States.\n\nFollowing a late morning interview with Secretary Cordell Hull on 8 December, Seni returned to his legation to confer with his staff. The ambassador and his staff unanimously decided to cast their lot with the Allies. Late the same afternoon, he returned to the State Department to offer their services to the Allied cause. Blaming pro-Japanese elements for the early Thai surrender, he spoke to Hull of unfreezing Thai assets in the United States for further prosecution of the war and suggested that the Thais in the country might \"organise and preserve a government of true patriotic, liberty-loving Thais while his government is in the clutches of Japan.\"\n\nThe State Department decided to act as if Seni continued to represent Thailand. This enabled him to tap into the frozen Thai assets. When asked to draw up a list of \"reliable and influential Thai nationals known to be definitely patriotic and anti-Japanese\" by the State Department (at the suggestion of John P. Davies), Seni named Regent Pridi Phanomyong, politicians Khuang Aphaiwong and Wilat Osathanon, and diplomats Phraya Sisena and Direk Jayanama as \"reliables\".\n\nSeni advanced plans to mobilise Thai volunteers in support of the Allies. Beyond the legation staffers and their families, most other Thai residents were students enrolled at colleges and universities, including institutions such as Harvard, the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, and Cornell. Many chose to stay following the Thai declaration of war in January, refusing repatriation. Most, like Seni, saw their nation as a victim of Japanese aggression.\n\nSeni became prime minister on 17 September 1945, the day he returned to Bangkok. However, he found his position as the head of a cabinet packed with Pridi's loyalists quite uncomfortable. Northeastern populist politicians like Tiang Sirikhanth and Bangkok newcomers like Sanguan Tularaksa were not people the aristocratic Seni preferred to associate with. They, in turn, viewed Seni as an elitist who was entirely out of touch with Thailand's political realities. Pridi continued to wield power behind the scenes as he had done during the Khuang government. The regent's looming presence and overarching authority rankled the proud, thin-skinned Seni, fuelling a personal animosity that would poison Thailand’s postwar politics.\n\nThe Pramoj brothers subsequently joined the newly formed Democrat Party in 1946, which was for the most part made up of royalists and conservative reactionaries. Seni would spend the next two years vigorously carrying out a personal campaign against Pridi. Earlier in the year he had called for an investigation of the use of the US$500,000 in Thai assets unfrozen by the US government that he had turned over to the OSS. Insinuating the money had been transferred to the senior statesman, he lamented that \"most of the money had not been spent for what it was intended.\" An independent investigatory panel, however, found no mistake, concluding that the Free Thai had \"performed remarkably well\" and that the Thai people \"owe a great deal to them.\" The outcome left the ex-prime minister looking extremely foolish.\n\nSeni soon got his revenge, however. In the immediate aftermath of King Ananda Mahidol's death, Seni and his party launched relentless attacks against the government and accused Pridi of being responsible for the king's assassination, the implausibility of the charge notwithstanding.\n\nIn November 1947 the Democrat Party cooperated with disgruntled army officers to oust the government of Thawan Thamrongnawasawat. As part of the deal, Seni was awarded a cabinet portfolio in Khuang's coup-installed cabinet.\n\nOn Tuesday, 14 June 1949, in a lecture delivered before the Siam Society, Seni pleaded, \"[I] happen to belong to that peculiar species known as politicians who are in the incorrigible habit of attempting to accomplish the impossible.\" Word had gotten around that his brother and he had been \"getting up a little English translation of some of King Mongkut's public papers and private correspondence...without actually putting it to a final execution.\" He chooses to speak of the king in his capacity as a legislator, \"because legislation is the field I am more closely familiar with than any other.\" Seni provides, \"ample evidence to show that the King was the first and foremost democrat of our country,\" and quotes from an Act declaring an election whereby \"any person, even though he be a slave, who is believed to be so sufficiently possessed of wisdom and restraint as to be able to give clear and satisfactory judgment in accordance with truth, justice and the law may be elected as judge.\" With regard to the 1944 semi-fictionalized biographical novel \"Anna and the King of Siam\" and the 1946 Hollywood film of the same title, Seni quotes from Acts and judicial decisions that give the lie to the fiction.\n\nSeni returned to his job as a lawyer, but remained active in the Democrat Party during the period of military rule. He served again briefly as prime minister from 15 February to 13 March 1975, when he was defeated and replaced by his younger brother, Rajawongse Kukrit Pramoj. However, Kukrit's government only lasted until 20 April 1976, when Seni regained the top political office.\n\nSeni's final term was a time of crisis in the nation. A right-wing backlash against leftist student demonstrators culminated in the Thammasat University massacre on 6 October 1976, the military forced him out of office and installed hard-line royalist Tanin Kraivixien as premier.\n\nSeni decided to resign as the leader of the Democrat Party and left politics permanently. He worked as a lawyer until his retirement.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2797428", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2797428", "title": "Setting the features", "text": "Setting the features\n\nSetting the features is a mortuary term that refers to the closing of the eyes and the mouth of a deceased person (and in the case of males, the shaving of any stubble) such that the cadaver is presentable as being in a state of rest and repose, and thus more suitable for viewing. While it is one of the first stages of embalming, it is also commonly done as a token of respect even when the deceased is not viewed or is directly cremated. Generally only when the deceased (or their family) have specifically requested the body be untouched are the features left unset. Some embalmers, particularly older practitioners and those trained in the United Kingdom, will set features after the arterial injection phase of embalming is complete, but is known to be done elsewhere.\n\n"}
{"id": "6898298", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6898298", "title": "Sex in space", "text": "Sex in space\n\nSex in space is human sexual activity in the weightlessness of outer space. It presents difficulties for the performance of most sexual activities due to Newton's third law. According to the law, if the couple remain attached, their movements will counter each other. Consequently, their actions will not change their velocity unless they are affected by another, unattached, object. Some difficulty could occur due to drifting into other objects. If the couple have a combined velocity relative to other objects, collisions could occur. There have been suggestions that conception and pregnancy in off-Earth environments could be an issue.\n\n, with NASA planning long-term missions for lunar settlements with goals to explore and colonize space, the topic has taken a respected place in life sciences. Scientist Stephen Hawking publicly concluded in 2006 that possibly human survival itself will depend on successfully contending with the extreme environments of space.\n\nNumerous physiological changes have been noted during spaceflight, many of which may affect sex and procreation. Such effects would be a result of factors including gravity changes, radiation, noise, vibration, isolation, disrupted circadian rhythms, stress, or a combination of these factors.\n\nThe primary issue to be considered in off-Earth reproduction is the lack of gravitational acceleration. Life on Earth, and thus the reproductive and ontogenetic processes of all extant species and their ancestors, evolved under the constant influence of the Earth's 1\"g\" gravitational field. It is imperative to study how space environment affects critical phases of mammalian reproduction and development as well as events surrounding fertilization, embryogenesis, pregnancy, birth, postnatal maturation, and parental care. Gravity affects all aspects of vertebrate development, including cell structure and function, organ system development, and even behavior. As gravity regulates mammalian gene expression, there are significant implications for successful procreation in an extraterrestrial environment.\n\nStudies conducted on reproduction of mammals in microgravity include experiments with rats. Although the fetus developed properly once exposed to normal gravity, the rats that were raised in microgravity lacked the ability to right themselves. Another study examined mouse embryo fertilization in microgravity. Although both groups resulted in healthy mice once implanted at normal gravity, the authors noted that the fertilization rate was lower for the embryos fertilized in microgravity than for those in normal gravity. Currently no mice or rats have developed while in microgravity throughout the entire developmental cycle.\n\nThe 2suit (alternately \"2-Suit\" or \"twosuit\") is a garment designed to facilitate low-effort sex in the weightless environments such as outer space, or on planets with low gravity. The flight garment, invented by American novelist Vanna Bonta, was one of the subjects of \"Sex in Space\", a 2008 History Channel television documentary about the biological and emotional implications of human migration and reproduction beyond Earth. The 2suit sparked international discussions in news and political debates as a metaphor for human colonization of space.\n\nThe psychosocial implications of in-flight sex and reproduction are at least as problematic as the related physiological challenges. For the foreseeable future, space crews will be relatively small in number. If pairing off occurs within the crew, it could have ramifications on the crew's working relationships, and therefore on mission success and crew operations. Behavioral health, close proximity, compatibility and coupling will all be factors determining selection of crews for long term and off-planet missions.\n\nLyubov Serova, a specialist with the Russian Institute for Biomedical Problems (IBMP) in the field of procreation in the conditions of spaceflight, says: \"After a period of adaptation for weightlessness, people will not need any special devices, like elastic belts or inflatable tubes to have sex in space,\" and \"We study the impact of weightlessness on the reproductive function of male and female bodies by using mammals as test subjects, particularly rats.\" The overall conclusion is that sex in space is not a physical problem, and that individuals motivated enough to embark on space flight would not be distracted by the need for sex.\n\nIn February 2013, Dennis Tito's Inspiration Mars Foundation announced that they were going to send a two-person crew – a man and a woman – on a 501-day, free-return, flyby mission to Mars and back. Jane Poynter stressed the importance of the pre-existing stable emotional bond between the members of the couple. She cited her own experience as being a Biosphere 2 crew member together with her husband Taber MacCallum, who is the chief technology officer of Inspiration Mars.\n\nIn June 2015, Pornhub announced its plans to make the first pornographic film in space. It launched a crowdfunding campaign to fund the effort, dubbed Sexploration, with the goal of raising $3.4 million in 60 days. The campaign only received pledges for $236 086. If funded, the film would have been slated for a 2016 release, following six months of training for the two performers and six-person crew. Though it claimed to be in talks with multiple private spaceflight carriers, the company declined to name names \"for fear that that would risk unnecessary fallout\" from the carriers. A \"Space.com\" article about the campaign mentioned that in 2008, Virgin Galactic received and rejected a $1 million offer from an undisclosed party to shoot a sex film on board SpaceShipTwo.\n\nShort of actual space, the adult entertainment production company Private Media Group has filmed a movie called \"The Uranus Experiment: Part Two\" where an actual zero-gravity intercourse scene was accomplished by flying an airplane to an altitude of () and then doing a steep dive. The filming process was particularly difficult from a technical and logistical standpoint. Budget constraints allowed for only one shot, featuring the actors Sylvia Saint and Nick Lang. Berth Milton, Jr, president and CEO of Private Media Group, says \"You would not want to be afraid of flying, that's for sure!\"\n\nScience fiction writer and futurist Isaac Asimov, in a 1973 article \"Sex in a Spaceship\", conjectured what sex would be like in the weightless environment of space, anticipating some of the benefits of engaging in sex in an environment of microgravity.\n\nWhen Apollo 11 astronaut Michael Collins published his autobiography \"Carrying the Fire\" in 1974, a contemporary \"Time\" magazine quoted the following passage: \"Imagine a spacecraft of the future, with a crew of a thousand ladies, off for Alpha Centauri, with 2,000 breasts bobbing beautifully and quivering delightfully in response to every weightless movement ... and I am the commander of the craft, and it is Saturday morning and time for inspection, naturally.\" Arthur C. Clarke in turn was quick to point out in a letter to the editor that he had beaten Collins to addressing the matter in the novel \"Rendezvous with Rama\" (1973). \n\nOn July 23, 2006, a Sex in Space panel was held at the Space Frontier Foundation's annual conference. Speakers were science journalist-author Laura Woodmansee, who presented her book \"Sex in Space\"; Jim Logan, the first graduate of a new aerospace medicine residency program to be hired by NASA's Johnson Space Center in Houston; and Vanna Bonta, an American poet, novelist, and actress who had recently flown in zero gravity and had agreed to an interview for Woodmansee's book. The speakers made presentations that explored \"the biological, emotional, and ... physical issues that will confront people moving [off Earth] into the space environment.\" NBC science journalist Alan Boyle reported on the panel, opening a world discussion of a topic previously considered taboo.\n\n\"Sex in Space\" was the title of an episode of the History Channel documentary television series \"The Universe\" in 2008. The globally distributed show was dubbed into foreign languages, opening worldwide discussion about what had previously been avoided as a taboo subject. Sex in space became a topic of discussion for the long-term survival of the human species, colonization of other planets, inspired songs, and humanized reasons for space exploration.\nThe idea of sex in space appears frequently in science fiction. Among films that include space-sex themes are \"Moonraker\", \"Moving Violations\", \"Supernova\" and \"\". In the novelization of \"Alien\", Parker tells Brett about an episode of zero-G sex that went wrong. A more recent and perhaps more realistic description of the mechanics of low-gravity intercourse is presented in \"Sex in Space: The Video\", a short story contained in Susie Bright's \"The Best American Erotica 2004\". The story uses cheating astronauts to describe techniques humans might use to copulate in space without special apparatus. The difficulties microgravity poses for human intimacy were also discussed in an anonymous fictional \"NASA Document 12-571-3570\" in 1989, where the use of an elastic belt and an inflatable tunnel were proposed as solutions to these problems. A mission patch and other documents were determined to be hoaxes.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "50548273", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50548273", "title": "Sibylle Ursula von Braunschweig-Lüneburg", "text": "Sibylle Ursula von Braunschweig-Lüneburg\n\nSibylle Ursula von Braunschweig-Lüneburg, also known as Sibylle von Braunschweig-Luneburg and Sibylle of Brunswick-Luneburg, (4 February 1629 – 12 December 1671), a member of the House of Welf, was a daughter of Duke Augustus II of Brunswick-Lüneburg and, by marriage, Duchess of Schleswig-Holstein-Sonderburg-Glücksburg. She stood out as a translator and writer.\n\nSibylle Ursula was born in Hitzacker, the third child of Duke Augustus (1579–1666) from his second marriage with the Ascanian princess Dorothea of Anhalt-Zerbst (1607–1634). Her father assumed the rule in the Principality of Brunswick-Wolfenbüttel in 1634. Sibylle Ursula became the stepdaughter of Elisabeth Sophie of Mecklenburg (1613–1676), the third wife of Duke Augustus who had distinguished herself as a poet and composer. Like her siblings, the Brunswick dukes Rudolph Augustus and Anthony Ulrich, she received a comprehensive education at the Wolfenbüttel court by scholars like Justus Georg Schottel and Sigmund von Birken.\n\nFor several years, she kept up a correspondence with Madeleine de Scudéry and Johannes Valentinus Andreae. Sibylle Ursula wrote part of a novel, \"Die Durchlauchtige Syrerin Aramena\" (\"Aramena, the noble Syrian lady\"), which when complete would be the most famous courtly novel in German Baroque literature; it was finished by her brother Anthony Ulrich and edited by Sigmund von Birken. Other writings of hers include a five-act play and a series of spiritual meditations. Translations of hers include two novels (\"Cassandre\" and \"Cléopâtre\") by La Calprenède, parts of Scudéry's \"Clélie\", and \"Introductio ad sapientiam\", one of the Latin writings of Juan Luis Vives, a Spanish humanist.\n\nInitially determined to remain unmarried, in 1663 she eventually entered into marriage with Duke Christian of Schleswig-Holstein-Sonderburg-Glücksburg (1627–1698), at the age of 34. Her husband, the only surviving son of Duke Philip of Schleswig-Holstein-Glücksburg, had taken over the rule at Glücksburg Castle the year before and was able to restore public finances with the help of his Wolfenbüttel relatives.\n\nSibylle Ursula fell seriously ill already in 1664, probably from syphilis passed on by her husband, which brought and ending to her artistic work. Suffering from an ever-increasingly depressive state, she died in childbirth. None of her children reached adulthood.\n"}
{"id": "2438185", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2438185", "title": "Sister group", "text": "Sister group\n\nA sister group or sister taxon is a phylogenetic term denoting the closest relatives of another given unit in an evolutionary tree. The expression is most easily illustrated by a cladogram: A, B, and C each represent a taxon:\n\nThe sister group to A is B; conversely, the sister group to B is A. Groups A and B, together with all other descendants of their most recent common ancestor, form the clade AB. The sister group to clade AB is C.\n\nThe whole clade ABC is itself a subtree of a larger tree, which offers yet more sister group branches that are related but farther removed from the leaf nodes, such as A, B, and C.\n\nIn cladistic standards, A, B, and C may represent specimens, species, taxon-groups, etc. If they represent species, the term \"sister species\" is sometimes used.\n\nThe term \"sister group\" is used in phylogenetic analysis, and only groups identified in the analysis are labeled as sister groups. An example is in birds, whose sister group is commonly cited as the crocodiles, but that is true only when dealing with extant taxa. The bird family tree is rooted in the dinosaurs, making for a number of extinct groups branching off before coming to the last common ancestor of birds and crocodiles. Thus, the term sister group must be seen as a relative term, with the caveat that the sister group is the closest relative only among the groups/species/specimens that are included in the analysis.\n"}
{"id": "988997", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=988997", "title": "Situated cognition", "text": "Situated cognition\n\nSituated cognition is a theory that posits that knowing is inseparable from doing by arguing that all knowledge is situated in activity bound to social, cultural and physical contexts.\n\nUnder this assumption, which requires an epistemological shift from empiricism, situativity theorists suggest a model of knowledge and learning that requires thinking on the fly rather than the storage and retrieval of conceptual knowledge. In essence, cognition cannot be separated from the context. Instead knowing exists, \"in situ\", inseparable from context, activity, people, culture, and language. Therefore, learning is seen in terms of an individual's increasingly effective performance across situations rather than in terms of an accumulation of knowledge, since what is known is co-determined by the agent and the context. This perspective rejects mind–body dualism, being conceptually similar to functional contextualism, and B. F. Skinner's behavior analysis.\n\nWhile situated cognition gained recognition in the field of educational psychology in the late twentieth century, it shares many principles with older fields such as critical theory, (Frankfurt School, 1930; Freire, 1968) anthropology (Jean Lave & Wenger, 1991), philosophy (Martin Heidegger, 1968), critical discourse analysis (Fairclough, 1989), and sociolinguistics theories (Bakhtin, 1981) that rejected the notion of truly objective knowledge and the principles of Kantian empiricism.\n\nLucy Suchman's work on situated action at Xerox Labs was instrumental in popularizing the idea that an actor's understanding of how to perform work results from reflecting on interactions with the social and material (e.g. technology-mediated) situation in which she or he acts. More recent perspectives of situated cognition have focused on and draw from the concept of identity formation as people negotiate meaning through interactions within communities of practice. Situated cognition perspectives have been adopted in education, instructional design, online communities and artificial intelligence (see Brooks, Clancey). Grounded Cognition, concerned with the role of simulations and embodiment in cognition, encompasses Cognitive Linguistics, Situated Action, Simulation and Social Simulation theories. Research has contributed to the understanding of embodied language, memory, and the representation of knowledge.\n\nSituated cognition draws a variety of perspectives, from an anthropological study of human behavior in the context of technology-mediated work, or within communities of practice to the ecological psychology of the perception-action cycle and intentional dynamics, and even research on robotics with work on autonomous agents at NASA and elsewhere (e.g., work by W. J. Clancey). Early attempts to define situated cognition focused on contrasting the emerging theory with information processing theories dominant in cognitive psychology.\n\nRecently theorists have recognized a natural affinity between situated cognition, New Literacy Studies and new literacies research (Gee, 2010). This connection is made by understanding that situated cognition maintains that individuals learn through experiences. It could be stated that these experiences, and more importantly the mediators that affect attention during these experiences is affected by the tools, technologies and languages used by a socio-cultural group and the meanings given to these by the collective group. New literacies research examines the context and contingencies that language and tool use by individuals and how this changes as the Internet and other communication technologies affect literacy.\n\nJames J. Gibson introduced the idea of affordances as part of a relational account of perception. Perception should not be considered solely as the encoding of environmental features into the perceiver's mind, but as an element of an individual's interaction with her environment (Gibson, 1977). Central to his proposal of an ecological psychology was the notion of affordances. Gibson proposed that in any interaction between an agent and the environment, inherent conditions or qualities of the environment allow the agent to perform certain actions with the environment. He defined the term as properties in the environment that presented possibilities for action and were available for an agent to perceive directly and act upon.<ref name=\"Gibson 1979/1986\">Gibson 1979/1986</ref>\nGibson focused on the affordances of physical objects, such as doorknobs and chairs, and suggested that these affordances were directly perceived by an individual instead of mediated by mental representations such as mental models. It is important to note that Gibson's notion of direct perception as an unmediated process of noticing, perceiving, and encoding specific attributes from the environment, has long been challenged by proponents of a more category-based model of perception.\n\nThis focus on agent-situation interactions in ecological psychology was consistent with the situated cognition program of researchers such as James G. Greeno (1994, 1998), who appreciated Gibson's apparent rejection of the factoring assumptions underlying experimental psychology. The situated cognition perspective focused on \"perception-action instead of memory and retrieval…A perceiving/acting agent is coupled with a developing/adapting environment and what matters is how the two interact\". Greeno (1994) also suggested that affordances are \"preconditions for activity,\" and that while they do not determine behavior, they increase the likelihood that a certain action or behavior will occur.\n\nShaw, Turvey, & Mace (as cited by Greeno, 1994) later introduced the term effectivities, the abilities of the agent that determined what the agent could do, and consequently, the interaction that could take place. Perception and action were co-determined by the effectivities and affordances, which acted 'in the moment' together. Therefore, the agent directly perceived and interacted with the environment, determining what affordances could be picked up, based on his effectivities. This view is consistent with Norman's (1988) theory of \"perceived affordances,\" which emphasizes the agent's perception of an object's utility as opposed to focusing on the object itself.\n\nAn interesting question is the relationship between affordances and mental representations as set forth in a more cognitivist perspective. While Greeno (1998) argues that attunements to affordances are superior to constructs such as schemata and mental models, Glenberg & Robertson (1999) suggested that affordances are the building blocks of mental models.\n\nThe work of Gibson (1986) in the field of visual perception greatly influences situated cognition. Gibson argued that visual perception is not a matter of the eye translating inputs into symbolic representation in the brain. Instead the viewer perceives and picks up on the infinite amount of information available in the environment. Specifically, an agent perceives affordances by discovering the variants, what changes, and more importantly the invariants, what does not change across different situations. Given a specific intention (or intentional set), perceptions of invariants are co-determined by the agent and the affordances of the environment, and are then built upon over time.\n\nSituated cognition and ecological psychology perspectives emphasize perception and propose that memory plays a significantly diminished role in the learning process. Rather, focus is on the continuous tuning of perceptions and actions across situations based on the affordances of the environment and the interaction of the agent within that environment (Greeno, 1994). Representations are not stored and checked against past knowledge, but are created and interpreted in activity (Clancey, 1990).\n\nSituated cognition understands memory as an interaction with the world, bounded by meaningful situations, that brings an agent toward a specified goal (intention). Thus, perception and action are co-determined by the effectivities and affordances, which act 'in the moment' together. Therefore, the agent directly perceives and interacts with the environment, determining what affordances can be picked up, based on his effectivities, and does not simply recall stored symbolic representations.\n\nSituativity theorists recast knowledge not as an entity, thing, or noun, but as knowing as an action or verb. It is not an entity which can be collected as in knowledge acquisition models. Instead knowing is reciprocally co-determined between the agent and environment. This reciprocal interaction can not be separated from the context and its cultural and historical constructions. Therefore, knowing isn't a matter of arriving at any single truth but instead it is a particular stance that emerges from the agent-environment interaction.\n\nKnowing emerges as individuals develop intentions through goal-directed activities within cultural contexts which may in turn have larger goals and claims of truth. The adoption of intentions relates to the direction of the agent's attention to the detection of affordances in the environment that will lead to accomplishment of desired goals. Knowing is expressed in the agent's ability to act as an increasingly competent participant in a community of practice. As agents participate more fully within specific communities of practice, what constitutes knowing continuously evolves. For example, a novice environmentalist may not look at water quality by examining oxygen levels but may consider the color and smell. Through participation and enculturation within different communities, agents express knowing through action.\n\nSince knowing is rooted in action and can not be decontextualized from individual, social, and historical goals teaching approaches that focus on conveying facts and rules separately from the contexts within which they are meaningful in real-life do not allow for learning that is based on the detection of invariants. They are therefore considered to be impoverished methods that are unlikely to lead to transfer. Learning must involve more than the transmission of knowledge but must instead encourage the expression of effectivities and the development of attention and intention through rich contexts that reflect real life learning processes.\n\nLearning, more specifically literacy learning is affected by the Internet and other communication technologies as also evidenced in other segments of society. As a result of this youth are recently using affordances provided by these tools to become experts in a variety of domains. These practices by youth are viewed as them becoming \"pro-ams\" and becoming experts in whatever they have developed a passion for.\n\nIndividuals don't just read or write texts, they interact with them, and often these interactions involve others in various socio-cultural contexts. Since language is often the basis for monitoring and tracking learning gains in comprehension, content knowledge and tool use in and out of school the role of situated cognition in language learning activities is important. Membership and interaction in social and cultural groups is often determined by tools, technologies and discourse use for full participation. Language learning or literacy in various social and cultural groups must include how the groups work with and interact with these texts. Language instruction in the context of situated cognition also involves the skilled or novice use of language by members of the group, and instruction of not only the elements of language, but what is needed to bring a student to the level of expert. Originating from emergent literacy, specialist-language lessons examines the formal and informal styles and discourses of language use in socio-cultural contexts. A function of specialist-language lessons includes \"lucidly functional language\", or complex specialist language is usually accompanied by clear and lucid language used to explain the rules, relationships or meanings existing between language and meaning.\n\nAccording to Jean Lave and Wenger (1991) legitimate peripheral participation (LPP) provides a framework to describe how individuals ('newcomers') become part of a community of learners. Legitimate peripheral participation was central to Lave and Wenger's take on situated cognition (referred to as \"situated activity\") because it introduced socio-cultural and historical realizations of power and access to the way thinking and knowing are legitimated. They stated, \"Hegemony over resources for learning and alienation from full participation are inherent in the shaping of the legitimacy and peripherality of participation in its historical realizations\" (p. 42). Lave and Wenger's (1991) research on the phenomenon of apprenticeship in communities of practice not only provided a unit of analysis for locating an individual's multiple, changing levels and ways of participation, but also implied that all participants, through increased involvement, have access to, acquire, and use resources available to their particular community.\n\nTo illustrate the role of LPP in situated activity, Lave and Wenger (1991) examined five apprenticeship scenarios (Yucatec midwives, Vai and Gola tailors, naval quartermasters, meat cutters, and non-drinking alcoholics involved in AA). Their analysis of apprenticeship across five different communities of learners lead them to several conclusions about the situatedness of LPP and its relationship to successful learning. Key to newcomers' success included:\n\n\nSuchman's book, \"Plans and Situated Actions: The Problem of Human-machine Communication\" (1987), provided a novel approach to the study of human-computer interaction (HCI). By adopting an anthropological approach to sensemaking and interpretation, Suchman was able to demonstrate how both action and planning were situated in the context of a flow of socially- and materially-mediated activities - an idea that stimulated many of the later conceptualizations of situated cognition. Her studies contrasted the deterministic approach to planning assumed by technology designers with the situated nature of planning as people make sense of the status of their workflow and adjust their course of action accordingly. For example, a photocopier will instruct its user to reload all pages in the original order after a jam, whereas the user understands that they only need to copy the last page again. By arguing that plans were the result of ongoing processes of prospective/retrospective sense making, Suchman identified the limits of technology system access to relevant social and material resources as a major cause of limitations in how technology supports human work.\n\nThis position led to a major debate with Vera and Simon (1993), who argued that cognition is based on symbolic representations and that planning must therefore be deterministic, based on a pre-determined repertoire of learned response. Most organizational theorists would now see this debate as reflecting individual/cognitive vs. socially-situated levels of analysis (requiring a similar need for paradigmatic co-existence as Wave–particle duality). Suchman (1993) argues that planning in the context of work-activity is similar to navigating a canoe through rapids: you know what point on the river you are aiming for, but you constantly adjust your course as you interact with rocks, swells, and currents on the way. As a result many organizational theorists argue that plans can only be viewed as post-hoc justifications of action, while Suchman herself views appears to view plans and actions as interrelated in the moment of action.\n\nIn situated theories, the term \"representation\" refers to external forms in the environment that are created through social interactions to express meaning (language, art, gestures, etc.) and are perceived and acted upon in the first person sense. \"Representing\" in the first person sense is conceived as an act of re-experiencing in the imagination that involves the dialectic of ongoing perceiving and acting in coordination with the activation of neural structures and processes. This form of reflective representation is considered to be a secondary type of learning, while the primary form of learning is found in the \"adaptive recoordination that occurs with every behavior\". Conceptualizing is considered to be a \"prelinguistic\" act, while \"knowing\" involves creative interaction with symbols in both their interpretation and use for expression. \"Schema\" develop as neural connections become biased through repeated activations to reactivate in situations that are perceived and conceived as temporally and compositionally similar to previous generalized situations.\n\nThe Young-Barab Model (1997) pictured to the left, illustrates the dynamics of intentions and intentional dynamics involved in the agent’s interaction with his environment when problem solving.\n\nDynamics of Intentions: goal (intention) adoption from among all possible goals (ontological descent). This describes how the learner decides whether or not to adopt a particular goal when presented with a problem. Once a goal is adopted, the learner proceeds by interacting with their environment through intentional dynamics. There are many levels of intentions, but at the moment of a particular occasion, the agent has just one intention, and that intention constrains his behavior until it is fulfilled or annihilated.\n\nIntentional Dynamics: dynamics that unfold when the agent has only one intention (goal) and begins to act towards it, perceiving and acting. It is a trajectory towards the achievement of a solution or goal, the process of tuning one’s perception (attention). Each intention is meaningfully bounded, where the dynamics of that intention inform the agent of whether or not he is getting closer to achieving his goal. If the agent is not getting closer to his goal, he will take corrective action, and then continue forward. This is the agent’s intentional dynamics, and continues on until he achieves his goal.\n\nThere are various definition of transfer found within the situated cognition umbrella. Researchers interested in social practice often define transfer as increased participation. Ecological psychology perspectives define transfer as the detection of invariance across different situations. Furthermore, transfer can only \"occur when there is a confluence of an individual's goals and objectives, their acquired abilities to act, and a set of affordances for action\".\n\nThe traditional cognition approach assumes that perception and motor systems are merely peripheral input and output devices. However, embodied cognition posits that the mind and body interact 'on the fly' as a single entity. An example of embodied cognition is seen in the area of robotics, where movements are not based on internal representations, rather, they are based on the robot’s direct and immediate interaction with its environment. Additionally, research has shown that embodied facial expressions influence judgments, and arm movements are related to a person’s evaluation of a word or concept. In the latter example, the individual would pull or push a lever towards his name at a faster rate for positive words, than for negative words. These results appeal to the embodied nature of situated cognition, where knowledge is the achievement of the whole body in its interaction with the world.\n\nAs to the mind, by and large, situated cognition paves the way to various form of externalism. The issue is whether the situated aspect of cognition has only a practical value or it is somehow constitutive of cognition and perhaps of consciousness itself. As to the latter possibility, there are different positions. David Chalmers and Andy Clark, who developed the hugely debated model of the extended mind, explicitly rejected the externalization of consciousness. For them, only cognition is extended. On the other hand, others, like Riccardo Manzotti or Teed Rockwell, explicitly considered the possibility to situate conscious experience in the environment.\n\nSince situated cognition views knowing as an action within specific contexts and views direct instruction models of knowledge transmission as impoverished, there are significant implications for pedagogical practices. First, curriculum requires instructional design that draws on apprenticeship models common in real life. Second, curricular design should rely on contextual narratives that situate concepts in practice. Classroom practices such as project-based learning and problem-based learning would qualify as consistent with the situated learning perspective, as would techniques such as Case Base Learning, Anchored Instruction, and cognitive apprenticeship.\n\nCognitive apprenticeships were one of the earliest pedagogical designs to incorporate the theories of situated cognition (Brown, Collins, & Duguid, 1989). Cognitive apprenticeship uses four dimensions (e.g., content, methods, sequence, sociology) to embed learning in activity and make deliberate the use of the social and physical contexts present in the classroom (Brown, Collins, & Duguid, 1989; Collins, Brown, & Newman, 1989). Cognitive apprenticeship includes the enculturation of students into authentic practices through activity and social interaction (Brown, Collins, & Duguid, 1989). The technique draws on the principles of Legitimate Peripheral Participation (Lave & Wenger, 1991) and reciprocal teaching (Palincsar & Brown, 1984; 1989) in that a more knowledgeable other, i.e. a teacher, engages in a task with a more novice other, i.e. a learner, by describing their own thoughts as they work on the task, providing \"just in time\" scaffolding, modeling expert behaviors, and encouraging reflection. The reflection process includes having students alternate between novice and expert strategies in a problem-solving context, sensitizing them to specifics of an expert performance, and adjustments that may be made to their own performance to get them to the expert level (Collins & Brown, 1988; Collins, Brown, & Newman, 1989). Thus, the function of reflection indicates \"co-investigation\" and/or abstracted replay by students.\n\nCollins, Brown, and Newman (1989) emphasized six critical features of a cognitive apprenticeship that included observation, coaching, scaffolding, modeling, fading, and reflection. Using these critical features, expert(s) guided students on their journey to acquire the cognitive and metacognitive processes and skills necessary to handle a variety of tasks, in a range of situations Reciprocal teaching, a form of cognitive apprenticeship, involves the modeling and coaching of various comprehension skills as teacher and students take turns in assuming the role of instructor.\n\nAnchored instruction is grounded in a story or narrative that presents a realistic (but fictional) situation and raises an overarching question or problem (compare with an essential question posed by a teacher). This approach is designed to 1) engage the learner with a problem or series of related problems, 2) require the learner to develop goals and discover subgoals related to solving the problem(s), and 3) provide the learner with extensive and diverse opportunities to explore the problem(s) in a shared context with classmates. For example, a Spanish teacher uses a video drama series focused on the murder of a main character. Students work in small groups to summarize parts of the story, to create hypotheses about the murderer and motive, and to create a presentation of their solution to the class. Stories are often paired so that across the set students can detect the invariant structure of the underlying knowledge (so 2 episodes about distance-rate-time, one about boats and one about planes, so students can perceive how the distance-rate-time relationship holds across differences in vehicles). The ideal smallest set of instances needed provide students the opportunity to detect invariant structure has been referred to as a \"generator set\" of situations.\n\nThe goal of anchored instruction is the engagement of intention and attention. Through authentic tasks across multiple domains, educators present situations that require students to create or adopt meaningful goals (intentions). One of the educator’s objectives can be to set a goal through the use of an anchor problem. A classic example of anchored instruction is the Jasper series. The Jasper series includes a variety of videodisc adventures focused on problem formulation and problem solving. Each videodisc used a visual narrative to present an authentic, realistic everyday problem. The objective was for students to adopt specific goals (intentions) after viewing the story and defining a problem. These newly adopted goals guided students through the collaborative process of problem formulation and problem solving.\n\nVirtual worlds provide unique affordances for embodied learning, i.e. hands on, interactive, spatially oriented, that ground learning in experience. Here \"embodied\" means acting in a virtual world enabled by an avatar.\n\nContextual affordances of online games and virtual environments allow learners to engage in goal-driven activity, authentic interactions, and collaborative problem-solving – all considered in situated theories of learning to be features of optimal learning. In terms of situated assessment, virtual worlds have the advantage of facilitating dynamic feedback that directs the perceiving/acting agent, through an avatar, to continually improve performance.\n\nThe situative perspective is focused on interactive systems in which individuals interact with one another and physical and representational systems. Research takes place \"in situ\" and in real-world settings, reflecting assumptions that knowledge is constructed within specific contexts which have specific situational affordances. Mixed methods and qualitative methodologies are the most prominently used by researchers.\n\nIn qualitative studies, methods used are varied but the focus is often on the increased participation in specific communities of practice, the affordances of the environment that are acted upon by the agent, and the distributed nature of knowing in specific communities. A major feature of quantitative methods used in situated cognition is the absence of outcome measures. Quantitative variables used in mixed methods often focus on process over product. For example, trace nodes, dribble files, and hyperlink pathways are often used to track how students interact in the environment.\n\nIn \"Situated Action: A Symbolic Interpretation\" Vera and Simon wrote: \" ... the systems usually regarded as exemplifying Situated Action are thoroughly symbolic (and representational), and, to the extent that they are limited in these respects, have doubtful prospects for extension to complex tasks\" Vera and Simon (1993) also claimed that the information processing view is supported by many years of research in which symbol systems simulated \"broad areas of human cognition\" and that there is no evidence of cognition without representation.\n\nAnderson, Reder and Simon (1996) summarized what they considered to be the four claims of situated learning and argued against each claim from a cognitivist perspective. The claims and their arguments were:\n\nAnderson, Reder and Simons summarize their concerns when they say:\n\"What is needed to improve learning and teaching is to continue to deepen our research into the circumstances that determine when narrower or broader contexts are required and when attention to narrower or broader skills are optimal for effective and efficient learning\" (p. 10).\n\nHowever, it is important to remember that a theory is neither wrong nor right but provides affordances for certain aspects of a problem. Lave and Wenger recognized this in their ironic comment, \"How can we purport to be working out a theoretical conception of learning without engaging in the project of abstraction [decontextualized knowledge] rejected above?\" (Lave & Wenger, 1991, p. 38).\n\n\n"}
{"id": "53130350", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53130350", "title": "Soe Moe Tun", "text": "Soe Moe Tun\n\nSoe Moe Tun (ca. 1981 – 13 December 2016) was a murdered Burmese investigative journalist for the \"Daily Eleven\" in Monywa, Sagaing Region, Myanmar (also known as Burma). He was best known for his investigative reporting about sensitive issues, such as illegal logging, the Letpadaung Copper Mine project, and illegal karaoke lounges in his local area.\n\nAt the time of his murder, Soe Moe Tun was 35 years old. His mother, Ye Ye Htay, said that her son \"was doing his work for the benefit of others.\" He was married to Khin Cho Latt, and the couple had an eight-year-old son. His wife and one of the locals stated that he had \"no enemies\" and testified to the genuine nature of his character.\n\nHis funeral services were held on 14 December 2016 in the Sarkyin Cemetery in Monywa, Sagaing Region.\n\nSoe Moe Tun was a prolific reporter in Monywa who was employed by the \"Daily Eleven\" and the Eleven Media Group. He began working for the media company in January 2015 and continued reporting for them until his death in December 2016. His most notable investigative reports involved sensitive subjects, such as seizures of narcotic stimulants; the Chinese-funded Letpadaung Copper Mine project; illegal karaoke lounges, or KTV, which were being used as brothels; and illegal logging operations involving timber smuggling in the Sagaing region, the last of which many suspect could be related to his murder. The editor of Eleven Media said his most recent assignment involved illegal logging.\n\nSoe Moe Tun was found dead on 13 December 2016 at around 12:20 a.m. with injuries to his head, left eyebrow, and face near Pyidaungsu Road, Union Highway, close to the Monywa Golf Course in Aung Chanthar Ward in Monywa. \nThe Sagaing Region police force formed a special team to investigate the crime scene and kept a sentry to prevent the clues from being erased. Soe Moe Tun was found face down. Roughly five feet away from him, various clues were found that implied that he had been murdered on site. Among these clues were a 1.22-meter-long stick, his bike helmet, and slippers. However, none of his personal belongings were taken. Police Captain Thein Swe Myint concluded that his murder was premeditated and very thoroughly planned. When the Criminal Investigation Department looked for forensic evidence, they discovered that the murderers destroyed their fingerprints on the stick. His phone contacts and calls were also analyzed.\n\nIn the aftermath of the murder, authorities suspected two people were involved and proceeded to question about 30–40 people, many of whom were staff members at a karaoke establishment called the Blue Sky KTV in Monywa, in order to narrow down suspects. This karaoke was one of the last places Soe Moe Tun visited on the day of his death. Finally, two people from the KTV were identified as suspects and arrested. Two weeks later, in January 2017, another person, who used to be a logging truck driver, was also arrested. However, those suspects were later released from custody as there was a lack of sufficient evidence to prosecute them. Much of the progress on the case was made within the first month and, in the midst of the investigation, the police chief of Monywa Central Police Station was moved to Rangoon. The case is still unsolved.\n\nSoe Moe Tun was best known for reporting on serious, sensitive issues within his homeland such as illegal logging and timber smuggling. Myanmar’s forests are among the world's most diverse, and have been a target for loggers, often working illegally, since the late 1980s. The Sagaing Region is a well-known hub for illegal logging. These activities are so frequent that even some local citizens within the town seem to have investments in the logging trade, making it harder to police.\n\nThe Myanmar Journalist Network issued a statement after Soe Moe Tun's murder that fellow journalist Tin Zaw Oo, who was reporting on illegal logging in the Mandalay region, had been threatened.\n\nSince 1999, Myanmar has seen five journalism-related killings, including that of Soe Moe Tun, according to Reporters Without Borders and the Committee to Protect Journalists.\n\n"}
{"id": "50589", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50589", "title": "Spanking", "text": "Spanking\n\nSpanking is a common form of corporal punishment involving the act of striking the buttocks of another person to cause physical pain, generally with an open hand. More severe forms of spanking, such as switching, paddling, belting, caning, whipping, and birching, involve the use of an object instead of a hand.\n\nParents commonly spank children or adolescents in response to undesired behavior. Boys are more frequently spanked than girls, both at home and in school. Some countries have outlawed the spanking of children in every setting, including homes, schools, and penal institutions, but most allow it when done by a parent or guardian.\n\nIn North America, the word \"spanking\" has often been used as a synonym for an official paddling in school, and sometimes even as a euphemism for the formal corporal punishment of adults in an institution.\n\nIn British English, most dictionaries define \"spanking\" as being given only with the open hand.\n\nIn American English, dictionaries define spanking as being administered with either the open hand or an implement such as a paddle. Thus, the standard form of corporal punishment in US schools (use of a paddle) is often referred to as a \"spanking\".\n\nIn the United Kingdom, Ireland, Australia and New Zealand, the word \"smacking\" is generally used in preference to \"spanking\" when describing striking with an open hand, rather than with an implement. Whereas a spanking is invariably administered to the bottom, a \"smacking\" is less specific and may refer to slapping the child's hands, arms or legs as well as its bottom.\n\nParents commonly spank their children as a form of corporal punishment in the United States. It is normally done with one or more slaps on the child's buttocks with a bare hand, although, not uncommonly, various objects are used to spank children. Historically, boys have been spanked more than girls. In the United States, the spanking of infants is common, with toddler-age children being spanked the most. The main reasons parents give for spanking children are to make children more compliant and to promote better behavior, especially to put a stop to children's aggressive behaviors.\n\nHowever, research has indicated that spanking (or any other form of corporal punishment), tends to have the opposite effect. Children who are physically punished more often tend to obey parents less with time, and to develop more aggressive behaviors, including toward other children. This increase in aggressive behavior is thought to reflect the child's perception that hitting is the way to deal with anger and frustration. There are also a number of documented adverse physical, mental, and emotional effects of spanking and other forms of corporal punishment, including various physical injuries, increased anxiety, depression, and antisocial behavior. Children who were spanked during childhood are more likely to abuse their own children and spouse.\n\nThe American Academy of Pediatrics (AAP) states no child under the age of two should be spanked. Additionally, the AAP recommends that primary care providers (e.g., pediatricians and family medicine physicians) begin to discuss parents' discipline methods no later than 9 months of age and consider initiating such discussions by age 3–4 months. By 8 months of age, 5% of parents report spanking and 5% report starting to spank by age 3 months. Primary care providers may recommend that a parent never spank their child; however, since spanking is a highly prevalent form of child discipline, this approach may lead parents to disregard a health care professional's advice and interfere with educational efforts to discuss alternative forms of discipline.\n\nAlthough parents and other advocates of spanking often claim that spanking is necessary to promote child discipline, studies have shown that parents tend to apply physical punishment inconsistently and tend to spank more often when they are angry or under stress. The use of corporal punishment by parents increases the likelihood that children will suffer physical abuse, and most documented cases of physical abuse in Canada and the United States begin as disciplinary spankings. If a child is frequently spanked, this form of corporal punishment tends to become less effective at modifying behavior over time (also known as extinction). In response to decreased effectiveness of spanking, some parents increase the frequency or severity of spanking or use an object.\n\nThere are many effective alternatives to spanking and other forms of corporal punishment. For example, such techniques include time-ins (increasing attention, praise, and special time to promote desired behaviors), time outs (taking a break from escalating misbehavior), positive reinforcement (rewarding desirable behavior (e.g., with a star, sticker, or treat)), non-physical negative reinforcement (an unpleasant consequence follows misbehavior (e.g., replying with a sharp \"no\" expressing disapproval for a specific action or taking away a privilege)), passive inattention (ignoring low-level misbehaviors and prioritizing attention for more significant forms of misbehavior appropriate for a child's developmental level), and avoidance (avoid the opportunity for the misbehavior to occur and thus the need for corrective discipline).\n\nCorporal punishment, usually delivered with an implement (such as a paddle or cane) rather than with the open hand, used to be a common form of school discipline in many countries, but it is now banned in most of the Western World.\n\nCorporal punishment, such as caning, remains a common form of discipline in schools in several Asian and African countries, even in countries in which this practice has been deemed illegal such as India and South Africa. In these cultures it is referred to as \"caning\" and not \"spanking.\"\n\nThe Supreme Court of the United States in 1977 held that the paddling of school students was not \"per se\" unlawful. However, 31 states have now banned paddling in public schools. It is still common in some schools in the South, and more than 167,000 students were paddled in the 2011-2012 school year in American public schools. Students can be physically punished from kindergarten to the end of high school, meaning that even adults who have reached the age of majority are sometimes spanked by school officials.\n\nMen spanking their wives and girlfriends was often seen as an acceptable form of domestic discipline in the early 20th century as a way to correct behavior, maintain male dominance, and enforce gender norms. It was a common trope in American films. In the early 21st century, adherents of a small subculture known as Christian domestic discipline rely on a literalist interpretation of the Bible to justify spanking as a form of punishment of women by their husbands. Critics describe such practices as a form of domestic abuse.\n\nThere are some rituals or traditions which involve spanking. For example, on the first day of the lunar Chinese new year holidays, a week-long 'Spring Festival', the most important festival for Chinese people all over the world, thousands of Chinese visit the Taoist \"Dong Lung Gong\" temple in Tungkang to go through the century-old ritual to get rid of bad luck. Men traditionally receive spankings and women get whipped, with the number of strokes to be administered (always lightly) by the temple staff being decided in either case by the god Wang Ye and by burning incense and tossing two pieces of wood, after which all go home happily, believing their luck will improve.\n\nOn Easter Monday, there is a Slavic tradition of hitting girls and young ladies with woven willow switches (Czech: \"pomlázka\"; Slovak: \"korbáč\") and dousing them with water.\n\nIn Slovenia, there is a jocular tradition that anyone who succeeds in climbing to the top of Mount Triglav receives a spanking or birching.\n\n\nNotes\n"}
{"id": "47925953", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47925953", "title": "Spiritual development", "text": "Spiritual development\n\nSpiritual development is the development of the personality towards a religious or spiritual desired better personality.\n\nIn the Theravada-tradition traditions two types of Buddhist meditation practices are being followed, namely samatha (Pāli; Sanskrit: \"śamatha\"; \"calm\") and vipassana (insight). Samatha is a primary meditation aimed at calming the mind, and it is also being used in other Indian traditions, most notably dhyana as described in the \"Yoga Sutras of Patanjali\".\n\nContemporary Theravada orthodoxy regards samatha as a preparation for vipassanā, pacifying the mind and strengthening the concentration in order to allow the work of insight, which leads to liberation. In contrast, the Vipassana Movement argues that insight levels can be discerned without the need for developing samatha further due to the risks of going out of course when strong samatha is developed. For this innovation the Vipassana Movement has been criticised, especially in Sri Lanka.\n\nThough both terms appear in the Sutta Pitaka, Gombrich and Brooks argue that the distinction as two \"separate\" paths originates in the earliest \"interpretations\" of the Sutta Pitaka, not in the suttas themselves. The suttas contain traces of ancient debates between Mahayana and Theravada schools in the interpretation of the teachings and the development of insight. Out of these debates developed the idea that bare insight suffices to reach liberation, by discerning the Three marks (qualities) of (human) existence (tilakkhana), namely dukkha (suffering), anatta (non-self) and anicca (impermanence).\n\nAnother example of this further development is the Zen Buddhist training, which does not end with kenshō. Practice is to be continued to deepen the insight and to express it in daily life. To deepen the initial insight of kensho, shikantaza and kōan-study are necessary. This trajectory of initial insight followed by a gradual deepening and ripening is expressed by Linji Yixuan in his Three mysterious Gates, the Five Ranks, the Four Ways of Knowing of Hakuin, and the Ten Ox-Herding Pictures which detail the steps on the Path.\n\nRamana Maharshi frequently recommended \"Vichara\", \"Self-enquiry\", also called \"ātma-vichār\" or \"jnana-vichara\", as the most efficient and direct way of realizing Self-awareness, in response to questions on self-liberation and the classic texts on Yoga and Vedanta. It is the constant attention to the inner awareness of \"I\" or \"I am\", and is also the method which was followed by Nisargadatta Maharaj.\n\nAccording to Ramana Maharshi, the I-thought is the sense of individuality: \"(Aham, aham) ‘I-I’ is the Self; (Aham idam) “I am this” or “I am that” is the ego.\" By paying attention to the 'I'-thought, inquiring where it comes from, the 'I'-thought will disappear and the \"shining forth\" (\"sphurana\") of \"I-I\" or Self-awareness will appear. This results in an \"effortless awareness of being\", and by staying with it this \"I-I\" gradually destroys the vasanas \"which cause the 'I'-thought to rise.\" When the vasanas disappear, the mind, \"vritti\" also comes to rest, since it centers around the 'I'-thought, and finally the 'I'-thought never rises again, which is Self-realization or liberation:\nRobert Forman notes that Ramana Maharshi made a distinction between \"samadhi\" and \"sahaja samadhi\". \"Samadhi\" is a contemplative state, which is temporarily, while in \"sahaja samadhi\" a \"silent state\" is maintained while engaged in daily activities. Forman notes that \"the first experience of \"samadhi\" [by Ramana] preceded \"sahaja samadhi\" by several years.\"\n\nRobert Forman, who is a long-term Transcendental meditation practitioner, with over 40 years of practice, describes the \"Pure Consciousness Event,\" a state of consciousness which is similar to transcendental consciousness in transcendental meditation. TM describes seven states of consciousness; \"pure\" or\"transcendental consciousness\" is the fourth state of consciousness, and the first of four transcendental states of consciousness, which eventually end in full enlightenment.\n\nAccording to Forman, introvertive mysticism is a transient, contemplative state, akin to \"samadhi\", while extroverted mysticism is a more developed form of mysticism, akin to \"sahaja samadhi\", a \"silent state\" which is maintained while engaged in activity. Shear, also a long-term TM-practitioner, also notes that Stace regarded extroverted mysticism to be a less complete form of mysticism, but was puzzled by the fact that there are far more descriptions of introverted mysticism than of extroverted mysticism. Shear proposes a developmental sequence of three higher states of consciousness:\nAccording to Shear, HS1 corresponds to Stace's introverted mysticism, whereas HS3 corresponds to Stace's extroverted mysticism, and is actually the more developed form of mystcism, in contrast to what Stace supposed.\n\nSeveral psychologists have proposed models in which religious experiences are part of a process of transformation of the self.\n\nCarl Jung's work on himself and his patients convinced him that life has a spiritual purpose beyond material goals. Our main task, he believed, is to discover and fulfil our deep innate potential, much as the acorn contains the potential to become the oak, or the caterpillar to become the butterfly. Based on his study of Christianity, Hinduism, Buddhism, Gnosticism, Taoism, and other traditions, Jung perceived that this journey of transformation is at the mystical heart of all religions. It is a journey to meet the self and at the same time to meet the Divine. Unlike Sigmund Freud, Jung thought spiritual experience was essential to our well-being.\n\nThe notion of the numinous was an important concept in the writings of Carl Jung. Jung regarded numinous experiences as fundamental to an understanding of the individuation process because of their association with experiences of synchronicity in which the presence of archetypes is felt.\n\nMcNamara proposes that religious experiences may help in \"decentering\" the self, and transform it into an integral self which is closer to an ideal self.\n\nTranspersonal psychology is a school of psychology that studies the transpersonal, self-transcendent or spiritual aspects of the human experience. The \"Journal of Transpersonal Psychology\" describes transpersonal psychology as \"the study of humanity’s highest potential, and with the recognition, understanding, and realization of unitive, spiritual, and transcendent states of consciousness\" (Lajoie and Shapiro, 1992:91). Issues considered in transpersonal psychology include spiritual self-development, peak experiences, mystical experiences, systemic trance and other metaphysical experiences of living.\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "44628244", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44628244", "title": "Sudan (rhinoceros)", "text": "Sudan (rhinoceros)\n\nSudan (1973 – 19 March 2018) was a captive northern white rhinoceros (\"Ceratotherium simum cottoni\") who lived at the Dvůr Králové Zoo in the Czech Republic from 1975 to 2009, and the rest of his life at the Ol Pejeta Conservancy in Laikipia, Kenya. At the time of his death, he was one of only three living northern white rhinoceroses in the world, and the last known male of his subspecies. Sudan was euthanised on 19 March 2018, after suffering from \"age-related complications\".\n\nA group of six northern white rhinoceros including the two years old Sudan was captured in Shambe, Sudan by animal trappers employed by Chipperfield's Circus in February 1975 working under agreement with Josef Vágner, the then director of the Dvůr Králové Zoo in Czechoslovakia (now the Czech Republic). The captured group comprised two males (Sudan and Saut) and four females (Nola, Nuri, Nadi and Nesari). \n\nThe number of northern white rhinos was already considered to be only around 700 animals in the wild. For many environmentalists, leaving the animals in nature was the only acceptable way of preserving the already rare subspecies. The Dvůr Králové Zoo and their Chipperfield partners were then criticized for the capture. The zoo was specialising in African fauna and already had their largest collection out of Africa.\n\nIn 1975 the group including Sudan was shipped to the Dvůr Králové Zoo for their northern white rhinoceros display. The zoo was the only one in the world where northern white rhinos have successfully given birth, with the last calf being born in 2000.\n\nTwo years later they were joined by Nasima, who originated from Uganda but came from Knowsley Safari Park near Prescot, and Saut was later lent to San Diego Zoo in the United States.\n\nAfter 1980, the northern white rhinos were wiped out in Uganda and Sudan, and 13 were left in Garamba National Park in Zaire (now Democratic Republic of the Congo). The Conservation Breeding Specialist Group of the IUCN met in 1986 in Dvůr Králové Zoo to discuss the ways to preserve the dwindling number of northern white rhinos. The efforts to save the subspecies included the import of Ben (an older male from London) in 1986 and the return of Saut (a calf from the original 1975 group) from San Diego Zoo in 1998 to Dvůr Králové Zoo. Attempts to join the group with several southern rhinos met only with mixed success. Several surgeries were performed on the females and their eggs; genetic material, including Sudan's semen, was preserved.\n\nSudan fathered three calves in the Czech Republic and became the grandfather of one. Sudan fathered Nabire (dam: Nasima, studbook number 0351), who was born 15 November 1983, and died at Dvůr Králové Zoo July 2015. He was also the father of Najin, who was transported to Ol Pejeta Conservancy along with him in 2009. Najin was born in 1989, again with the dam being Nasima. Sudan has also sired one other offspring besides Nabire and Najin. The third calf was born prematurely and died. Sudan was the grandfather of Fatu through his daughter Najin. For breeding, Sudan's studbook number was 0372.\n\nThe Dvůr Králové rhinos were getting older and after 2000 no more calves were being born around the world.\n\nThe second-to-last male northern white rhinoceros in the world was Angalifu, who lived at the San Diego Zoo Safari Park with Nola until his death on 14 December 2014. Angalifu was beyond breeding age, leaving Sudan as the only fertile male in the world even when Angalifu was alive. \n\nIn June 2008 specialists met in the Dvůr Králové Zoo to decide further steps to save the subspecies. The meeting of the Czech Zoo with IUCN African Rhino Specialist Group (AfRSG), World Zoo and Aquarium Association WAZA, Berlin institute IZW as well as experts from Vienna Veterinary institute and the European Zoo and Aquarium Association EAZA recommended to move Sudan and his group from the Czech Republic to Africa. Substantial debate succeeded and strong objections were raised against this proposal, especially given the fact that expert and scientific organisations were available in Europe and insemination efforts could have continued in the Czech Republic.\n\nIn December 2009 the rhinos were moved to the Ol Pejeta Conservancy for a \"Last Chance To Survive\" breeding program, along with three other northern white rhinoceroses. It was hoped that Ol Pejeta would provide a more natural habitat and better hormonal balance for the animals to induce breeding. However, breeding attempts with Sudan at Ol Pejeta Conservancy were unsuccessful.\n\nOne of the other three rhinos transported in the Ol Pejeta Conservancy, Suni, died in 2014. Sudan then lived the final years of his life with his daughter Najin and granddaughter Fatu. \n\nNorthern white rhinoceroses are guarded 24 hours a day at the conservancy to protect them from poaching, which is a major problem for rhinoceroses. The protection includes horn-embedded transmitters, watchtowers, fences, drones, guard dogs, and trained armed guards around the clock.\n\nAt the end of 2017, Sudan suffered from an infection in his right hind leg. Although his condition improved in subsequent months, the infection returned, and, in March 2018, his state seriously deteriorated, despite intensive care. Sudan was euthanised on 19 March 2018, after suffering from \"age-related complications\". \n\nIn the weeks before Sudan's death, Richard Vigne, CEO of the Ol Pejeta Conservancy, stated that \"Sudan has been technically infertile for many years, so him dying is not going to affect the possibilities of recovery for the northern white rhino as a species.\"\n\nAfter the death of Sudan, Dvůr Králové Zoo spokesman Jan Stejskal, declared that \"We must take advantage of the unique situation in which cellular technologies are utilised for conservation of critically endangered species. It may sound unbelievable, but thanks to the newly developed techniques even Sudan could still have an offspring.\"\n\nThere are now ongoing attempts at in vitro fertilization of eggs from Najin and Fatu with semen from Sudan and to implant the resulting blastocysts in suitable female southern white rhinos. In total, eggs from two females and semen from five males are now available for the subspecies' possible future resurrection.\n\nIn February 2015, Ol Pejeta Conservancy launched a GoFundMe campaign to raise funds for the rangers guarding the rhinos. In May 2015, after contacting Ol Pejeta Conservancy, Dubai-based Pakistani entrepreneurs Hamid Hussain and Muhammad Yaqoob started a global campaign to create awareness and bring people to Ol Pejeta Conservancy to help in generating revenues for the IVF treatments and other forms of assisted reproduction by inviting celebrities to visit the conservancy. Among the celebrities who visited Sudan were actors Nargis Fakhri and Khaled Abol Naga.\n\nIn 2017, Ol Pejeta Conservancy teamed up with Tinder and Ogilvy Africa to launch a fundraising campaign in order to recover the species. They created a Tinder account for Sudan, the last standing male of northern white rhinos, and the app's users could swipe right to make their donations for the development of breeding methods.\n\n"}
{"id": "5897913", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5897913", "title": "The Lampies", "text": "The Lampies\n\nThe Lampies is an English children's animated television series created by David Bonner and features a mix of 2D and 3D animation.\n\nCreated by David Bonner in conjunction with Uli Meyer Animation Studios and music by Mcasso Music, there are 52 eleven-minute episodes that were originally commissioned by the BBC. Financial issues caused the creative and business drive to falter and momentum was lost. In 2003 The Lampies IP was bought from the receiver by a private investor.\n\nA group of sprite-like power engineers maintain and defend the lamp post HO32 which is the critical area of the entire Lighting Network. The Roons who live in the sewers below are the creatures who threaten the Lighting Network due to their strong dislike to the presence of light. Sewer rats can also prove to be a pest to the Lampies.\n\n\n\nTV distribution rights for Series One were sold into 33 countries. When series one was broadcast in 2001 it regularly achieved over 40% of target viewing audience. This figure reached over 50% during 2002. Series two of \"The Lampies\" was completed in March 2002 and generated similar audience figures with prime slots on BBC 1 and 2.\n\nHIT Entertainment had released a single UK only VHS release of the programme entitled \"Captain Who and other stories\" in 2001. An introductory DVD - \"SWITCH ON TO THE LAMPIES\" was launched on 7 April 2008. The first full DVD, Disc 1 Series One - A BIT OF A JAM AND OTHER STORIES was launched on 19 May 2008. LP Productions formed a partnership with Save the Children in 2008. £2 from the sale of each \"SWITCH ON TO THE LAMPIES\" DVD will go towards the Save the Children protection work with very vulnerable children in Mongolia.\n\n"}
{"id": "31924631", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31924631", "title": "The Library of St. John the Beheaded", "text": "The Library of St. John the Beheaded\n\nThe Library of St. John the Beheaded is an institution in the fictional world of \"Doctor Who\". Created by Andy Lane for his novel \"All-Consuming Fire\", it is described as being under the control of the Catholic Church which uses the Library as a depository for banned literature.\n\nIn a further development of the concept, the Big Finish Productions audio play \"Neverland\" written by Alan Barnes, makes mention of 'The Knights of St John the Beheaded' whose Earthly myths make reference to the Gallifreyan legends of Rassilon and his battle with the beast Zagreus.\n\nThe Library is located in Holborn between the Church of St Giles, London and the Seven Dials district, which was also used as a setting for crime stories by Arthur Conan Doyle and Agatha Christie as it was one of London’s ancient ‘rookeries’, tightly packed slums of poverty and lawlessness.\n\nThe Library was one of several recurring locations employed by the authors of the \"Virgin New Adventures\"; others include a house in Allen Road, Kent, and an asteroid housing the Braxiatel Collection which had its origins in a casual remark made on television and which gave rise to the recurring character of Irving Braxiatel.\n"}
{"id": "285948", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=285948", "title": "Unicellular organism", "text": "Unicellular organism\n\nA unicellular organism, also known as a single-celled organism, is an organism that consists of only one cell, unlike a multicellular organism that consists of more than one cell. Unicellular organisms fall into two general categories: prokaryotic organisms and eukaryotic organisms. Prokaryotes include bacteria and archaea. Many eukaryotes are multicellular, but the group includes the protozoa, unicellular algae, and unicellular fungi. Unicellular organisms are thought to be the oldest form of life, with early protocells possibly emerging 3.8–4 billion years ago.\n\nAlthough some prokaryotes live in colonies, they are not specialised into cells with differing functions. These organisms live together, and each cell must carry out all life processes to survive. In contrast, even the simplest multicellular organisms have cells that depend on each other to survive.\n\nMost multicellular organisms have a unicellular life-cycle stage. Gametes, for example, are reproductive unicells for multicellular organisms. Additionally, multicellularity appears to have evolved independently many times in the history of life.\n\nSome organisms are partially unicellular, like \"Dictyostelium discoideum\". Additionally, unicellular organisms can be multinucleate, like Myxogastria and \"Plasmodium\".\n\nPrimitive protocells were the precursors to today's unicellular organisms. Although the origin of life is largely still a mystery, in the currently prevailing theory, known as the RNA world hypothesis, early RNA molecules would have been the basis for catalyzing organic chemical reactions and self-replication. The RNA world hypothesis assumes that RNA molecules could form in abiotic conditions, which would require nucleic acids and ribose to be present. Theoretical and experimental findings show that nucleic acids and sugars could have been synthesized in early prebiotic conditions.\n\nCompartmentalization was necessary for chemical reactions to be more likely as well as to differentiate reactions with the external environment. For example, an early RNA replicator ribozyme may have replicated other replicator ribozymes of different RNA sequences if not kept separate.\n\nWhen amphiphiles like lipids are placed in water, the hydrophobic (water fearing) tails aggregate to form micelles and vesicles, with the hydrophilic (water loving) ends facing outwards. Primitive cells likely used self-assembling fatty-acid vesicles to separate chemical reactions and the environment. Because of their simplicity and ability to self-assemble in water, it's likely that these simple membranes predated other forms of early biological molecules.\n\nProkaryotes lack membrane-bound organelles, such as mitochondria or a nucleus. Instead, most prokaryotes have an irregular region that contains DNA , known as the nucleoid. Most prokaryotes have a single, circular chromosome, which is in contrast to eukaryotes, which typically have linear chromosomes. Nutritionally, prokaryotes have the ability to utilize a wide range of organic and inorganic material for use in metabolism, including sulfur, cellulose, ammonia, or nitrite. Prokaryotes as a whole are ubiquitous in the environment and exist in extreme environments as well.\n\nBacteria are one of the world’s oldest forms of life, and are found virtually everywhere in nature. Many common bacteria have plasmids, which are short, circular, self-replicating DNA molecules that are separate from the bacterial chromosome. Plasmids can carry genes responsible for novel abilities, of current critical importance being antibiotic resistance. Bacteria predominantly reproduce asexually through a process called binary fission. However, about 80 different species can undergo a sexual process referred to as natural genetic transformation. Transformation is a bacterial process for transferring DNA from one cell to another, and is apparently an adaptation for repairing DNA damage in the recipient cell. In addition, plasmids can be exchanged through the use of a pilus in a process known as conjugation.\n\nThe photosynthetic cyanobacteria are arguably the most successful bacteria, and changed the early atmosphere of the earth by oxygenating it. Stromatolites, structures made up of layers of calcium carbonate and trapped sediment left over from cyanobacteria and associated community bacteria, left behind extensive fossil records. The existence of stromatolites gives an excellent record as to the development of cyanobacteria, which are represented across the Archaean (4 billion to 2.5 billion years ago), Proterozoic (2.5 billion to 540 million years ago), and Phanerozoic (540 million years ago to present day) eons. Much of the fossilized stromatolites of the world can be found in Western Australia. There, some of the oldest stromatolites have been found, some dating back to about 3,430 million years ago.\n\nHydrothermal vents release heat and hydrogen sulfide, allowing extremophiles to survive using chemolithotrophic growth.\nArchaea are generally similar in appearance to bacteria, hence their original classification as bacteria, but have significant molecular differences most notably in their membrane structure and ribosomal RNA. By sequencing the ribosomal RNA, it was found that the Archeae most likely split from bacteria and were the precursors to modern eukaryotes, and are actually more phylogenetically related to eukaryotes. As their name suggests, Archeae comes from a Greek word \"archaios,\" meaning original, ancient, or primitive.\n\nSome archaea inhabit the most biologically inhospitable environments on earth, and this is believed to in some ways mimic the early, harsh conditions that life was likely exposed to. Examples of these Archaean extremophiles are as follows:\nMethanogens are a significant subset of archaea and include many extremophiles, but are also ubiquitous in wetland environments as well as the ruminant and hindgut of animals. This process utilizes hydrogen to reduce carbon dioxide into methane, releasing energy into the usable form of adenosine triphosphate. They are the only known organisms capable of producing methane. Under stressful environmental conditions that cause DNA damage, some species of archaea aggregate and transfer DNA between cells. The function of this transfer appears to be to replace damaged DNA sequence information in the recipient cell by undamaged sequence information from the donor cell.\n\nEukaryotic cells contain membrane bound organelles, such as mitochondria, a nucleus, and chloroplasts. Prokaryotic cells probably transitioned into eukaryotic cells between 2.0–1.4 billion years ago. This was an important step in evolution. In contrast to prokaryotes, eukaryotes reproduce by using mitosis and meiosis. Sex appears to be a ubiquitous and ancient, and inherent attribute of eukaryotic life. Meiosis, a true sexual process, allows for efficient recombinational repair of DNA damage and a greater range of genetic diversity by combining the DNA of the parents followed by recombination. Metabolic functions in eukaryotes are more specialized as well by sectioning specific processes into organelles.\n\nThe endosymbiotic theory holds that mitochondria and chloroplasts have bacterial origins. Both organelles contain their own sets of DNA and have bacteria-like ribosomes. It is likely that modern mitochondria were once a species similar to \"Rickettsia\", with the parasitic ability to enter a cell. However, if the bacteria were capable of respiration, it would have been beneficial for the larger cell to allow the parasite to live in return for energy and detoxification of oxygen. Chloroplasts probably became symbiants through a similar set of events, and are most likely descendants of cyanobacteria. While not all eukaryotes have mitochondria or chloroplasts, mitochondria are found in most eukaryotes, and chloroplasts are found in all plants and algae. Photosynthesis and respiration are essentially the reverse of one another, and the advent of respiration coupled with photosynthesis enabled much greater access to energy than fermentation alone.\n\nProtozoa are largely defined by their method of locomotion, including flagella, cilia, and pseudopodia. While there has been considerable debate on the classification of protozoa caused by their sheer diversity, in one system there are currently seven phyla recognized under the kingdom Protozoa: Euglenozoa, Amoebozoa, Choanozoa \"sensu\" Cavalier-Smith, Loukozoa, Percolozoa, Microsporidia and Sulcozoa. Protozoa, like plants and animals, can be considered heterotrophs or autotrophs. Autotrophs like \"Euglena\" are capable of producing their energy using photosynthesis, while heterotrophic protozoa consume food by either funneling it through a mouth-like gullet or engulfing it with pseudopods, a form of phagocytosis. While protozoa reproduce mainly asexually, some protozoa are capable of sexual reproduction. Protozoa with sexual capability include the pathogenic species \"Plasmodium falciparum\", \"Toxoplasma gondii\", \"Trypanosoma brucei\", \"Giardia intestinalis\" and \"Leishmania\" species.\n\nCiliophora, or ciliates, are a group of protists that utilize cilia for locomotion. Examples include \"Paramecium\", \"Stentors\", and \"Vorticella\". Ciliates are widely abundant in almost all environments where water can be found, and the cilia beat rhythmically in order to propel the organism. Many ciliates have trichocysts, which are spear-like organelles that can be discharged to catch prey, anchor themselves, or for defense. Ciliates are also capable of sexual reproduction, and utilize two nuclei unique to ciliates: a macronucleus for normal metabolic control and a separate micronucleus that undergoes meiosis. Examples of such ciliates are \"Paramecium\" and \"Tetrahymena\" that likely employ meiotic recombination for repairing DNA damage acquired under stressful conditions.\n\nThe Amebozoa utilize pseudopodia and cytoplasmic flow to move in their environment. Most Amebas are unicellular, although a few can become multicellular, such as \"Physarum polycephalum\", a slime mold. \"Entamoeba histolytica\" is the cause of amebic dysentery. \"Entamoeba histolytica\" appears to be capable of meiosis.\n\nUnicellular algae are plant-like autotrophs and contain chlorophyll. They include groups that have both multicellular and unicellular species:\n\nUnicellular fungi include the yeasts. Fungi are found in most habitats, although most are found on land. Yeasts reproduce through mitosis, and many use a process called budding, where most of the cytoplasm is held by the mother cell. \"Saccharomyces cerevisiae\" ferments carbohydrates into carbon dioxide and alcohol, and is used in the making of beer and bread. \"S. cerevisiae\" is also an important model organism, since it is a eukaryotic organism that's easy to grow. It has been used to research cancer and neurodegenerative diseases as well as to understand the cell cycle. Furthermore, research using \"S. cerevisiae\" has played a central role in understanding the mechanism of meiotic recombination and the adaptive function of meiosis. Candida spp. are responsible for candidiasis, causing infections of the mouth and/or throat (known as thrush) and vagina (commonly called yeast infection).\n\nMost unicellular organisms are of microscopic size and are thus classified as microorganisms. However, some unicellular protists and bacteria are macroscopic and visible to the naked eye. Examples include:\n"}
{"id": "33761097", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33761097", "title": "Use error", "text": "Use error\n\nThe term use error has recently been introduced to replace the commonly used terms human error and user error. The new term, which has already been adopted by international standards organizations for medical devices (see #Use errors in health care below for references), suggests that accidents should be attributed to the circumstances, rather than to the human beings who happened to be there.\n\nThe term \"use error\" was first used in May 1995 in an MD+DI guest editorial, “The Issue Is ‘Use,’ Not ‘User,’ Error,” by William Hyman. Traditionally, human errors are considered as a special aspect of human factors. Accordingly, they are attributed to the human operator, or user.\nWhen taking this approach, we assume that the system design is perfect, and the only source for the use errors is the human operator. For example, the U.S. Department of Defense (DoD) HFACS \nclassifies use errors attributed to the human operator, disregarding improper design and configuration setting, which often result in missing alarms, or in inappropriate alerting.\n\nThe need for changing the term was due to a common malpractice of the stakeholders (the responsible organizations, the authorities, journalists) in cases of accidents. Instead of investing in fixing the error-prone design, management attributed the error to the users.\nThe need for the change has been pointed out by the accident investigators: \n\nA mishap is typically considered as either a use error or a force majeure:\n\n\nIn 1998, Cook, Woods and Miller presented the concept of hindsight bias, exemplified by celebrated accidents in medicine, by a workgroup on patient safety\nThe workgroup pointed at the tendency to attribute accidents in health care to isolated human failures.\nThey provide references to early research about the effect of knowledge of the outcome, which was unavailable beforehand, on later judgement about the processes that led up to that outcome. They explain that in looking back, we tend to oversimplify the situation that the actual practitioners faces. They conclude focusing on the hindsight knowledge prevents our understanding of the richer story, the circumstances of the human error.\n\nAccording to this position, the term Use Error is formally defined in several international standards, such as IEC 62366, ISO 14155 and ISO 14971, to describe\n\nISO standards about medical devices and procedures provide examples of use errors, which are attributed to human factors, include slips, lapses and mistakes. Practically, this means that they are attributed to the user, implying the user’s accountability.\nThe U.S. Food and Drug Administration glossary of medical devices provides the following explanation about this term:\n\nWith this interpretation by ISO and the FDA, the term ‘use error’ is actually synonymous with ‘user error’.\nAnother approach, which distinguishes ‘use errors’ from ‘user errors', is taken by IEC 62366. Annex A includes an explanation justifying the new term:\n\nThis explanation complies with “The New View”, which Sidney Dekker suggested as an alternative to “The Old View”. This interpretation favors investigations intended to understand the situation, rather than blaming the operators.\n\nIn a 2011 report draft on health IT usability, the U.S. National Institute of Standards and Technology (NIST) defines \"use error\" in healthcare IT this way: “Use error is a term used very specifically to refer to user interface designs that will engender users to make errors of commission or omission. It is true that users do make errors, but many errors are due not to user error per se but due to designs that are flawed, e.g., poorly written messaging, misuse of color-coding conventions, omission of information, etc.\".\n\nAn example of an accident due to a user error is the ecological disaster of 1967 caused by the Torrey Canyon supertanker. The accident was due to a combination of several exceptional events, the result of which was that the supertanker was heading directly to the rocks. At that point, the captain failed to change the course because the steering control lever was inadvertently set to the Control position, which disconnected the rudder from the wheel at the helm.\n\nExamples of the second type are the Three Mile Island accident described above, the NYC blackout following a storm and the chemical plant disaster in Bhopal, India (Bhopal Disaster).\n\nThe URM Model characterizes use errors in terms of the user’s failure to manage a system deficiency. Six categories of use errors are described in a URM document:\n\nErik Hollnagel argues that going from and 'old' view to a 'new' view is not enough. One should go all the way to a 'no' view. This means that the notion of error, whether user error or use error might be destructive rather than constructive. \nInstead, he proposes to focus on the performance variability of everyday actions, on the basis that this performance variability is both useful and necessary. In most cases the result is that things go right, in a few cases that things go wrong. But the reason is the same.\n\nHollnagel expanded on this in his writings about the efficiency–thoroughness trade-off principle\nof Resilience Engineering,\n\nand the Resilient Health Care Net.\n"}
{"id": "12257884", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12257884", "title": "Uterine inversion", "text": "Uterine inversion\n\nUterine inversion is when the uterus turns inside out, usually following childbirth. Symptoms include postpartum bleeding, abdominal pain, a mass in the vagina, and low blood pressure. Rarely inversion may occur not in association with pregnancy.\nRisk factors include pulling on the umbilical cord or pushing on the top of the uterus before the placenta has detached. Other risk factors include uterine atony, placenta previa, and connective tissue disorders. Diagnosis is by seeing the inside of the uterus either in or coming out of the vagina.\nTreatment involves standard resuscitation together with replacing the uterus as rapidly as possible. If efforts at manual replacement are not successful surgery is required. After the uterus is replaced oxytocin and antibiotics are typically recommended. The placenta can than be removed if it is still attached.\nUterine inversion occurs in about 1 in 2,000 to 1 in 10,000 deliveries. Rates are higher in the developing world. The risk of death of the mother is about 15% while historically it has been as high as 80%. The condition has been described since at least 300 BC by Hippocrates.\n\nUterine inversion is often associated with significant postpartum bleeding. Traditionally it was thought that it presented with haemodynamic shock \"out of proportion\" with blood loss, however blood loss has often been underestimated. The parasympathetic effect of traction on the uterine ligaments may cause bradycardia.\n\nThe most common cause is the mismanagement of 3rd stage of labor, such as:\n\nOther natural causes can be:\nIt is more common in multiple gestation than in singleton pregnancies.\n\n\n\nTreatment involves standard resuscitation together with replacing the uterus as rapidly as possible. If efforts at manual replacement are not successful surgery is required. After the uterus is replaced oxytocin and antibiotics are typically recommended. The placenta can than be removed if it is still attached.\n\nUterine inversion occurs in about 1 in 2,000 to 1 in 10,000 deliveries. Rates are higher in the developing world.\n"}
{"id": "7679804", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7679804", "title": "Webkinz", "text": "Webkinz\n\nWebkinz are stuffed animals that have a playable online counterpart, www.webkinz.com, in \"Webkinz World.\" Webkinz were originally released by the Canadian toy company Ganz on April 29, 2005. The toys are similar to many other small plush toys; however, each Webkinz toy has an attached tag with a unique \"Secret Code\" printed on it that allows you to play with your pet in the \"Webkinz World\" website. On Webkinz World, the Secret Code allows the user to own a virtual version of the pet for online play. Lil' Kinz are smaller, less expensive versions of Webkinz, while the Signature collection are larger and slightly more expensive. Sales of plush Webkinz toys are limited to the United States and Canada, but international users can buy virtual pets from the online eStore. In 2006, Webkinz had one million online accounts, and according to one estimate published in \"Wired\" they took in $100 million. In 2011, Webkinz made its first commercial on TV. Webkinz was updated in 2015 to Webkinz X, making it more kid friendly.\n\nThere are many types of Webkinz: Warren, regular pets, wild animals, mythical creatures, and made-up ones. They all come with codes that can be entered on the computer at www.webkinz.com Along with the regular Webkinz toys, there are also smaller, less expensive versions called Lil' Kinz as well as larger, slightly more expensive versions in the Signature collection launched in April 2009. The Signature collection later ended in December 2013. In May 2009, Birthstone Pets were released. One new Birthstone Pet was released for every month. In April 2010, Ganz replaced the Birthstone Pets with the Zodiac Pets. Again, one Zodiac Pet will be released every month. In 2011, CandyKinz were released. In June 2012, Rockerz Pets were released.\n\nEach Webkinz stuffed animal and Webkinz accessory comes with an 8-character code. By registering this code at www.webkinz.com, the customer \"adopts\" this pet in the virtual Webkinz World. Without the code, the user will not get access to the full Webkinz World, but they can create a free account. On January 19, 2011, Ganz announced that Webkinz World accounts would no longer expire, meaning users would not have to buy a new pet each year to renew their account, but then brought that back into Webkinz in 2012.\n\nThe Webkinz World is an online play area with its own economy completely controlled by Ganz. The user receives money (called KinzCash) by adopting new pets, playing online games, answering general knowledge questions, and through daily activities like clicking \"I love my Webkinz!\", spinning the \"Wheel of WOW\", playing \"Wishing Well 2\", or completing jobs (minigames) available once every 8 hours. Each day, there is a Game of the Day which can be played for bonus KinzCash, and other bonuses are available each hour, full days on weekends and afternoons only on weekdays. With each Webkinz toy purchased, more KinzCash, rooms, and items are added to the user's account.\n\nThe online world also contains many rare or exclusive items. Some of these items require developing a friendship with the Curio Shop owner to purchase, while others are obtained by registering other Webkinz accessories purchased in the real world. Each type of pet gets a special item and food available exclusively for them. Also, a Pet of the Month is announced at the beginning of each month. If a person registers the announced pet in that month, they will receive other exclusive items.\n\nMany of the tasks in Webkinz World involve collecting items. For example, recipes are released for the players through cookbooks or one of the TV shows called \"The Secret Chef\". \"Gems\" can be mined once a day at the \"Curio Shop\", with a full set of gems being turned into the \"Webkinz Crown of Wonder\" and buy exclusive items. A similar feature, called \"Alyssa's Star Challenge\", involves users clicking on colored stars to find valuable stars.\n\nOther features of Webkinz include:\n\n\nWhen a pet is registered at www.webkinz.com (or \"adopted\"), it gives or renews an account's full membership features for one year. When membership of a pet expires, the account becomes a retired account and some features become unavailable. Some of the limitations of free accounts are not present on retired accounts, but several challenges are still impossible without an active account.\n\nThere is also an upgrade to regular memberships called the Deluxe Membership which is available at the Ganz eStore. This is a premium membership with many features, benefits, games, and prizes to which regular accounts do not have access. Deluxe Members also receive free Webkinz eStore points at the time of purchase and at the beginning of each month afterwards for the extent of the Deluxe Membership. Ganz tends to promote Deluxe Memberships and this is seen as consumerism. Ganz's promotion of this feature has been criticized by parents who do not want to purchase Deluxe Memberships for their children. \n\nIf one wants to register an account at www.webkinz.com without a pet code, they are permitted to select from 9 Ganz eStore Pets. Several limitations exist on free accounts that make many challenges and activities impossible. Free accounts can be upgraded to regular memberships or Deluxe Memberships at any time.\n\nAside from the Webkinz, Lil' Kinz, Signature, and Rockerz Pets, Ganz also has made other toys that can be used on Webkinz World. These are called W-Plus items, and all W-Plus items come with a secret code that can be used in the Code Shop in Webkinz World. These codes unlock items for the Webkinz Pets, like new room themes, clothing for pets, KinzCash, and other prizes.\n\nThese are all of the W-Plus items Ganz has released:\n\nThere are 4 series of Webkinz Trading Cards, of which 2 can be used (in virtual form) to play the challenge game. The cards come in booster packs, with 5 playing cards and a code card in each pack. In these packs there are also chances of getting special cards as well, like free pet codes. In Series 1, you can also get Curio Shop Curiosities and Webkinz Doodlez. In Series 2, there is At Paw Level and W-Tales Snapshots instead. These special cards are foil. For Series 1, 80 base cards have been released, 12 challenges, 8 Curio Shop Curiosities and 8 Webkinz Doodlez. In Series 2, there are 85 base cards, 15 challenges, 8 At Paw Levels and 8 W-Tales Snapshots. The cards are also W-Plus items, and they each come with 2-5 codes. 1 code on each card is for a virtual pack of Trading Cards, while the other 1-4 can unlock prizes like rare and exclusive themes or coupons. Series 3 changed the format, with only 1 feature code per pack, and no code for a virtual pack. The packs also included stickers and a chance to win a previously unheard-of Pet, the Magical Retriever. Also, Ganz has said that each Series 3 code gives you an item you cannot find anywhere else in Webkinz World. Series 4 has also been released, and the prize Pet, the Mystical Panda, replaces the Magical Retriever.\n\nSales of plush Webkinz and Lil' Kinz are limited to the United States and Canada, however virtual pets can be purchased from the Ganz eStore by international residents. Secret Codes issued in conjunction with virtual pets can be used the same way as Secret Codes attached to plush pets.\n\nDeluxe Members get free Ganz eStore points every month.\n\nWebkinz World has many games in which players can play to earn KinzCash. The website also has a wide range of multiplayer games for users to play against their friends, and anyone else who wants to play at the time. There are some games specifically reserved for a premium tier of users, called Deluxe Membership.\n\nTo maintain long-term access to an account, the user must continue to purchase additional stuffed toys with a new Secret Code. Failure to comply within 14 days of the end of the membership period will result in the account becoming a free account. All memberships are property of the individual who registered the Secret Code and may not be used by more than one user or transferred to another user.\n\nEach time a pet is redeemed, 1-year of service is added to the expiration date.\n\nConcerns have been raised about children's use and overuse of the toys. Some worry that children will become addicted to the game. Some parents have voiced concerns about the website's online chat system. The \"KinzChat\" chat system has various safety precautions, with restrictions on who can send messages. Additionally, users cannot type, but can choose phrases to say from a list. Concerns have also been raised about the toys being a distraction in school, occasionally resulting in them being banned from school grounds. Concerns were also raised when the once advertisement-free site started displaying advertisements, previously only for their own additional game-related products, but now also for movies, such as \"Alvin and the Chipmunks\" and \"Bee Movie\". There is an option that members can use to block ads that promote sites not sponsored by or affiliated with Webkinz or Ganz. However, if enabled, this option can not be changed until 30 days have passed.\nRumors have circulated that malware is present. In 2007 rumors spread about a character that would kill Webkinz on the site, supposedly inserted by a disgruntled employee or a rival site. These claims were dismissed by Webkinz.\n\nAnother area of parental concern is that there are many problems with connecting to the Webkinz World site. These range from technical problems with customer's internet browsers and unresponsive customer service to programming problems at the Webkinz World site. Changes made to the Webkinz World site have resulted in many disappointed users as newly introduced features often limit access to a small fraction (less than 1%) of users and programming errors often reduce the ability of the remainder of the site to function at prior levels.\n\n"}
{"id": "695733", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=695733", "title": "Willem Kieft", "text": "Willem Kieft\n\nWillem Kieft (September 1597, Amsterdam – September 27, 1647) was a Dutch merchant and the Director of New Netherland (of which New Amsterdam was the capital) from 1638 to 1647.\n\nWillem Kieft was appointed to the rank of director by the Dutch West India Company in 1638. He formed the council of twelve men, the first representative body in New Netherland, but ignored its advice.\n\nHe tried to tax, and then, drive out, local Native Americans. He ordered attacks on Pavonia and Corlears Hook on February 25, 1643 in a massacre (129 Dutch soldiers killed 120 Indians, including women and children), followed by retaliations resulting in what would become known as Kieft's War (1643–1645). The war took a huge toll on both sides, and Dutch West India Company Board of Directors fired him in 1647. He was replaced with Peter Stuyvesant.\n\nHe died on September 27, 1647 in the \"Princess Amelia\" shipwreck near Swansea, Wales, en route to Amsterdam to defend himself, along with many of his opponents, including the Rev. Everardus Bogardus. His archive was also lost, so his exact role cannot be established apart from what his opponents wrote of him. He is depicted in the Gods of Manhattan series by Scott Mebus.\n\n\n"}
