{"id": "1056536", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1056536", "title": "Ant colony", "text": "Ant colony\n\nAn ant colony is the basic unit around which ants organize their lifecycle. Ant colonies are eusocial, and are very much like those found in other social Hymenoptera, though the various groups of these developed sociality independently through convergent evolution. The typical colony consists of one or more egg-laying queens, a large number of sterile females (workers, soldiers) and, seasonally, a large number of winged sexual males and females. In order to establish new colonies, ants undertake nuptial flights that occur at species-characteristic times of the day. Swarms of the winged sexuals (known as alates) depart the nest in search of other nests. The males die shortly thereafter, along with most of the females. A small percentage of the females survive to initiate new nests.\n\nThe term \"ant colony\" refers to the collections of workers, reproductive individuals, and brood that live together, cooperate, and treat one another non-aggressively. Often this comprises the genetically related progeny from a single queen, although this is not universal across ants. The name \"ant farm\" is commonly given to ant nests that are kept in formicarium; these formicaria are formed so scientists can study by rearing or temporarily maintaining them. Another name is \"formicary\", which derives from the Medieval Latin word \"formīcārium\". The word also derives from \"formica\". \"Ant nests\" are the physical spaces in which the ants live. These can be underground, in trees, under rocks, or even inside a single acorn. The name \"anthill\" applies to underground nests where the workers pile sand or soil outside the entrance, forming a large mound.\n\nColony size (the number of individuals that make up the colony) is very important to ants: it can affect how they forage, how they defend their nests, how they mate, and even their physical appearances. Body size is often seen as the most important factor in shaping the natural history of non-colonial organisms; similarly, colony size is key in influencing how colonial organisms are collectively organized. However, colony sizes are very different in different ant species: some are just several ants living in a twig, while others are super colonies with many millions of workers. Even looking at a single ant colony, seasonal variation can be huge. For example, in the ant \"Dolichoderus mariae\", one colony can shift from around 300 workers in the summer to over 2,000 workers per queen in the winter. Genetics and environmental factors can cause the variation among colonies of a particular species to be even bigger. Zooming out further, within a related group of different ant species, the differences can be enormous: \"Formica yessensis\" has colony sizes that are reported to be 306 million workers while \"Formica fusca\" colonies sometimes comprise only 500 workers.\n\nA supercolony occurs when many ant colonies over a large area unite. They still continue to recognize genetic differences in order to mate, but the different colonies within the super colony avoid aggression. Until 2000, the largest known ant supercolony was on the Ishikari coast of Hokkaidō, Japan. The colony was estimated to contain 306 million worker ants and one million queen ants living in 45,000 nests interconnected by underground passages over an area of . In 2000, an enormous supercolony of Argentine ants was found in Southern Europe (report published in 2002). Of 33 ant populations tested along the stretch along the Mediterranean and Atlantic coasts in Southern Europe, 30 belonged to one supercolony with estimated millions of nests and billions of workers, interspersed with three populations of another supercolony. The researchers claim that this case of unicoloniality cannot be explained by loss of their genetic diversity due to the genetic bottleneck of the imported ants. In 2009, it was demonstrated that the largest Japanese, Californian and European Argentine ant supercolonies were in fact part of a single global \"megacolony\". This intercontinental megacolony represents the most populous recorded animal society on earth.\n\nAnother supercolony, measuring approximately wide, was found beneath Melbourne, Australia in 2004.\n\nThe following terminology is commonly used among myrmecologists to describe the behaviors demonstrated by ants when founding and organizing colonies:\n\n\nAnt colonies have a complex hierarchical social structure. Ants jobs are determined and can be changed by age. As ants grow older their jobs move them further from the queen, or center of the colony. Younger ants work within the nest protecting the queen and young. Sometimes, a queen is not present and is replaced by egg-laying workers. These worker ants can only lay haploid eggs producing sterile offspring. Despite the title of queen, she doesn't delegate the tasks to the worker ants; however, the ants choose their tasks based on personal preference.\nAnts as a colony also work as a collective \"super mind\". Ants can compare areas and solve complex problems by using information gained by each member of the colony to find the best nesting site or to find food. Some social-parasitic species of ants, known as the Slave-making ant, raid and steal larvae from neighboring colonies.\n\nAnt hill art is a growing collecting hobby. It involves pouring molten metal (typically non-toxic zinc or aluminum), plaster or cement down an ant colony mound acting as a mold and upon hardening, one excavates the resulting structure. In some cases, this involves a great deal of digging. The casts are often used for research and education purposes but many are simply given or sold to natural history museums or sold as folk art or as souvenirs. Usually, the hills are chosen after the ants have abandoned as to not kill any ants; however in the Southeast United States, pouring into an active colony of invasive fire ants is a novel way to eliminate them.\n\nAn \"ant-hill\", in its simplest form, is a pile of earth, sand, pine needles, or clay or a composite of these and other materials that build up at the entrances of the subterranean dwellings of ant colonies as they are excavated. A colony is built and maintained by legions of worker ants, who carry tiny bits of dirt and pebbles in their mandibles and deposit them near the exit of the colony. They normally deposit the dirt or vegetation at the top of the hill to prevent it from sliding back into the colony, but in some species, they actively sculpt the materials into specific shapes and may create nest chambers within the mound.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "29873928", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29873928", "title": "Archaeolithophyllaceae", "text": "Archaeolithophyllaceae\n\nThe Archaeolithophyllaceae are a family of algae that are thought to represent the stem lineage of the corallinaceae.\n"}
{"id": "21781351", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21781351", "title": "Artificially Expanded Genetic Information System", "text": "Artificially Expanded Genetic Information System\n\nArtificially Expanded Genetic Information System (AEGIS) is a synthetic life experiment from the laboratories of the Foundation for Applied Molecular Evolution in Gainesville, Florida. The system uses twelve different nucleic acids, including the four found in DNA, in its genetic code, and replicates via polymerase chain reaction. The system is claimed to be able to achieve Darwinian evolution.\n\nAEGIS research is the result of a NASA-funded project to try to understand how extraterrestrial life may have developed.\n"}
{"id": "969", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=969", "title": "Ataxia", "text": "Ataxia\n\nAtaxia is a neurological sign consisting of lack of voluntary coordination of muscle movements that can include gait abnormality, speech changes and abnormalities in eye movements. Ataxia is a clinical manifestation indicating dysfunction of the parts of the nervous system that coordinate movement, such as the cerebellum. Ataxia can be limited to one side of the body, which is referred to as hemiataxia. Several possible causes exist for these patterns of neurological dysfunction. Dystaxia is a mild degree of ataxia. Friedreich's ataxia has gait abnormality as the most commonly presented symptom. The word is from Greek \"α-\" [a negative prefix] + \"-τάξις\" [order] = \"lack of order\".\n\nThe term cerebellar ataxia is used to indicate ataxia that is due to dysfunction of the cerebellum. The cerebellum is responsible for integrating a significant amount of neural information that is used to coordinate smoothly ongoing movements and to participate in motor planning. Although ataxia is not present with all cerebellar lesions, many conditions affecting the cerebellum do produce ataxia. People with cerebellar ataxia may have trouble regulating the force, range, direction, velocity and rhythm of muscle contractions. This results in a characteristic type of irregular, uncoordinated movement that can manifest itself in many possible ways, such as asthenia, asynergy, delayed reaction time, and dyschronometria. Individuals with cerebellar ataxia could also display instability of gait, difficulty with eye movements, dysarthria, dysphagia, hypotonia, dysmetria and dysdiadochokinesia. These deficits can vary depending on which cerebellar structures have been damaged, and whether the lesion is bilateral or unilateral.\n\nPeople with cerebellar ataxia may initially present with poor balance, which could be demonstrated as an inability to stand on one leg or perform tandem gait. As the condition progresses, walking is characterized by a widened base and high stepping, as well as staggering and lurching from side to side. Turning is also problematic and could result in falls. As cerebellar ataxia becomes severe, great assistance and effort are needed to stand and walk. Dysarthria, an impairment with articulation, may also be present and is characterized by \"scanning\" speech that consists of slower rate, irregular rhythm and variable volume. There may also be slurring of speech, tremor of the voice and ataxic respiration. Cerebellar ataxia could result with incoordination of movement, particularly in the extremities. There is overshooting (or hypermetria) with finger to nose testing, and heel to shin testing; thus, dysmetria is evident. Impairments with alternating movements (dysdiadochokinesia), as well as dysrhythmia, may also be displayed. There may also be tremor of the head and trunk (titubation) in individuals with cerebellar ataxia.\n\nIt is thought that dysmetria is caused by a deficit in the control of interaction torques in multijoint motion. Interaction torques are created at an associated joint when the primary joint is moved. For example, if a movement required reaching to touch a target in front of the body, flexion at the shoulder would create a torque at the elbow, while extension of the elbow would create a torque at the wrist. These torques increase as the speed of movement increases and must be compensated and adjusted for to create coordinated movement. This may, therefore, explain decreased coordination at higher movement velocities and accelerations.\n\n\nThe term sensory ataxia is employed to indicate ataxia due to loss of proprioception, the loss of sensitivity to the positions of joint and body parts. This is generally caused by dysfunction of the dorsal columns of the spinal cord, because they carry proprioceptive information up to the brain. In some cases, the cause of sensory ataxia may instead be dysfunction of the various parts of the brain which receive positional information, including the cerebellum, thalamus, and parietal lobes.\n\nSensory ataxia presents itself with an unsteady \"stomping\" gait with heavy heel strikes, as well as a postural instability that is usually worsened when the lack of proprioceptive input cannot be compensated for by visual input, such as in poorly lit environments.\n\nPhysicians can find evidence of sensory ataxia during physical examination by having the patient stand with his/her feet together and eyes shut. In affected patients, this will cause the instability to worsen markedly, producing wide oscillations and possibly a fall. This is called a positive Romberg's test. Worsening of the finger-pointing test with the eyes closed is another feature of sensory ataxia. Also, when the patient is standing with arms and hands extended toward the physician, if the eyes are closed, the patient's finger will tend to \"fall down\" and then be restored to the horizontal extended position by sudden muscular contractions (the \"ataxic hand\").\n\nThe term \"vestibular ataxia\" is employed to indicate ataxia due to dysfunction of the vestibular system, which in acute and unilateral cases is associated with prominent vertigo, nausea and vomiting. In slow-onset, chronic bilateral cases of vestibular dysfunction, these characteristic manifestations may be absent, and dysequilibrium may be the sole presentation.\n\nThe three types of ataxia have overlapping causes, and therefore can either coexist or occur in isolation. Cerebellar ataxia can have many causes despite normal neuroimaging.\n\nAny type of focal lesion of the central nervous system (such as stroke, brain tumor, multiple sclerosis) will cause the type of ataxia corresponding to the site of the lesion: cerebellar if in the cerebellum, sensory if in the dorsal spinal cord (and rarely in the thalamus or parietal lobe), vestibular if in the vestibular system (including the vestibular areas of the cerebral cortex).\n\nExogenous substances that cause ataxia mainly do so because they have a depressant effect on central nervous system function. The most common example is ethanol (alcohol), which is capable of causing reversible cerebellar and vestibular ataxia. Other examples include various prescription drugs (e.g. most antiepileptic drugs have cerebellar ataxia as a possible adverse effect), Lithium level over 1.5mEq/L, synthetic cannabinoid HU-211 ingestion and various other recreational drugs (e.g. ketamine, PCP or dextromethorphan, all of which are NMDA receptor antagonists that produce a dissociative state at high doses). A further class of pharmaceuticals which can cause short term ataxia, especially in high doses are the benzodiazepines. Exposure to high levels of methylmercury, through consumption of fish with high mercury concentrations, is also a known cause of ataxia and other neurological disorders.\n\nAtaxia can be induced as a result of severe acute radiation poisoning with an absorbed dose of more than 30 Grays.\n\nVitamin B deficiency may cause, among several neurological abnormalities, overlapping cerebellar and sensory ataxia.\n\nSymptoms of neurological dysfunction may be the presenting feature in some patients with hypothyroidism. These include reversible cerebellar ataxia, dementia, peripheral neuropathy, psychosis and coma. Most of the neurological complications improve completely after thyroid hormone replacement therapy.\n\nPeripheral neuropathies may cause generalised or localised sensory ataxia (e.g. a limb only) depending on the extent of the neuropathic involvement. Spinal disorders of various types may cause sensory ataxia from the lesioned level below, when they involve the dorsal columns.\n\nNon-hereditary causes of cerebellar degeneration include chronic ethanol abuse, head injury, paraneoplastic and non-paraneoplastic autoimmune ataxia, high altitude cerebral oedema, coeliac disease, normal pressure hydrocephalus and infectious or post-infectious cerebellitis.\n\nAtaxia may depend on hereditary disorders consisting of degeneration of the cerebellum and/or of the spine; most cases feature both to some extent, and therefore present with overlapping cerebellar and sensory ataxia, even though one is often more evident than the other. Hereditary disorders causing ataxia include autosomal dominant ones such as spinocerebellar ataxia, episodic ataxia, and dentatorubropallidoluysian atrophy, as well as autosomal recessive disorders such as Friedreich's ataxia (sensory and cerebellar, with the former predominating) and Niemann Pick disease, ataxia-telangiectasia (sensory and cerebellar, with the latter predominating), and abetalipoproteinaemia. An example of X-linked ataxic condition is the rare fragile X-associated tremor/ataxia syndrome or FXTAS.\n\nArnold-Chiari malformation is a malformation of the brain. It consists of a downward displacement of the cerebellar tonsils and the medulla through the foramen magnum, sometimes causing hydrocephalus as a result of obstruction of cerebrospinal fluid outflow.\n\nSuccinic semialdehyde dehydrogenase deficiency is an autosomal-recessive gene disorder where mutations in the ALDH5A1 gene results in the accumulation of gamma-Hydroxybutyric acid (GHB) in the body. GHB accumulates in the nervous system and can cause ataxia as well as other neurological dysfunction.\n\nWilson's disease is an autosomal-recessive gene disorder whereby an alteration of the ATP7B gene results in an inability to properly excrete copper from the body. Copper accumulates in the nervous system and liver and can cause ataxia as well as other neurological and organ impairments.\n\nGluten ataxia is a proposed condition, wherein someone has an otherwise unexplained (idiopathic) ataxia and also has serological testing for IgA anti-transglutaminase antibodies. It may account for 40% of ataxias of unknown origin and 15% of all ataxias.\n\nMalfunction of the sodium-potassium pump may be a factor in some ataxias. The - pump has been shown to control and set the intrinsic activity mode of cerebellar Purkinje neurons. This suggests that the pump might not simply be a homeostatic, \"housekeeping\" molecule for ionic gradients; but could be a computational element in the cerebellum and the brain. Indeed, an ouabain block of - pumps in the cerebellum of a live mouse results in it displaying ataxia and dystonia. Ataxia is observed for lower ouabain concentrations, dystonia is observed at higher ouabain concentrations.\n\nAntibodies against the enzyme glutamic acid decarboxylase (GAD: enzyme changing glutamate into GABA) cause cerebellar deficits. The antibodies impair motor learning and cause behavioral deficits.\n\nThe treatment of ataxia and its effectiveness depend on the underlying cause. Treatment may limit or reduce the effects of ataxia, but it is unlikely to eliminate them entirely. Recovery tends to be better in individuals with a single focal injury (such as stroke or a benign tumour), compared to those who have a neurological degenerative condition. A review of the management of degenerative ataxia was published in 2009. A small number of rare conditions presenting with prominent cerebellar ataxia are amenable to specific treatment and recognition of these disorders is critical. Diseases include vitamin E deficiency, abetalipoproteinemia, cerebrotendinous xanthomatosis, Niemann–Pick type C disease, Refsum's disease, glucose transporter type 1 deficiency, episodic ataxia type 2, gluten ataxia, glutamic acid decarboxylase ataxia.\n\nThe movement disorders associated with ataxia can be managed by pharmacological treatments and through physical therapy and occupational therapy to reduce disability. Some drug treatments that have been used to control ataxia include: 5-hydroxytryptophan (5-HTP), idebenone, amantadine, physostigmine, L-carnitine or derivatives, trimethoprim/sulfamethoxazole, vigabatrin, phosphatidylcholine, acetazolamide, 4-aminopyridine, buspirone, and a combination of coenzyme Q10 and vitamin E.\n\nPhysical therapy requires a focus on adapting activity and facilitating motor learning for retraining specific functional motor patterns. A recent systematic review suggested that physical therapy is effective, but there is only moderate evidence to support this conclusion. The most commonly used physical therapy interventions for cerebellar ataxia are vestibular habituation, Frenkel exercises, proprioceptive neuromuscular facilitation (PNF), and balance training; however, therapy is often highly individualized and gait and coordination training are large components of therapy.\n\nCurrent research suggests that, if a person is able to walk with or without a mobility aid, physical therapy should include an exercise program addressing five components: static balance, dynamic balance, trunk-limb coordination, stairs, and contracture prevention. Once the physical therapist determines that the individual is able to safely perform parts of the program independently, it is important that the individual be prescribed and regularly engage in a supplementary home exercise program that incorporates these components to further improve long term outcomes. These outcomes include balance tasks, gait, and individual activities of daily living. While the improvements are attributed primarily to changes in the brain and not just the hip and/or ankle joints, it is still unknown whether the improvements are due to adaptations in the cerebellum or compensation by other areas of the brain.\n\nDecomposition, simplification, or slowing of multijoint movement may also be an effective strategy that therapists may use to improve function in patients with ataxia. Training likely needs to be intense and focused—as indicated by one study performed with stroke patients experiencing limb ataxia who underwent intensive upper limb retraining. Their therapy consisted of constraint-induced movement therapy which resulted in improvements of their arm function. Treatment should likely include strategies to manage difficulties with everyday activities such as walking. Gait aids (such as a cane or walker) can be provided to decrease the risk of falls associated with impairment of balance or poor coordination. Severe ataxia may eventually lead to the need for a wheelchair. To obtain better results, possible coexisting motor deficits need to be addressed in addition to those induced by ataxia. For example, muscle weakness and decreased endurance could lead to increasing fatigue and poorer movement patterns.\n\nThere are several assessment tools available to therapists and health care professionals working with patients with ataxia. The International Cooperative Ataxia Rating Scale (ICARS) is one of the most widely used and has been proven to have very high reliability and validity. Other tools that assess motor function, balance and coordination are also highly valuable to help the therapist track the progress of their patient, as well as to quantify the patient's functionality. These tests include, but are not limited to:\n\n\nThe term \"ataxia\" is sometimes used in a broader sense to indicate lack of coordination in some physiological process. Examples include optic ataxia (lack of coordination between visual inputs and hand movements, resulting in inability to reach and grab objects) and ataxic respiration (lack of coordination in respiratory movements, usually due to dysfunction of the respiratory centres in the medulla oblongata). Optic ataxia may be caused by lesions to the posterior parietal cortex, which is responsible for combining and expressing positional information and relating it to movement. Outputs of the posterior parietal cortex include the spinal cord, brain stem motor pathways, pre-motor and pre-frontal cortex, basal ganglia and the cerebellum. Some neurons in the posterior parietal cortex are modulated by intention. Optic ataxia is usually part of Balint's syndrome, but can be seen in isolation with injuries to the superior parietal lobule, as it represents a disconnection between visual-association cortex and the frontal premotor and motor cortex.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4542038", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4542038", "title": "Capital punishment in Egypt", "text": "Capital punishment in Egypt\n\nCapital punishment is a legal penalty in Egypt. The state carried out at least 44 executions in 2016, and at least 35 in 2017. On 8 September, 2018 a court in Egypt sentenced 75 people to death and 47 others to life imprisonment. They were charged with murder, membership in a terrorist group. The English newspaper Independent has reported that Najia Bounaim of Amnesty International Middle East and North Africa described the court’s sentence to “disgraceful\" and \"a mockery of justice.\". The method of execution is hanging for civilian convictions, and by firing squad for convictions by commissioned military personnel at the time of duty. \n\nThe Grand Mufti of Egypt Shawki Ibrahim Abdel-Karim Allam, is responsible under Egyptian law for reviewing all death sentences in Egypt. Legally, his opinion is consultative and non-binding to the presiding court that handed down the death sentence.\n\nOn 26 January 2013, an Egyptian court gave death sentences to 21 people convicted of involvement in a mass attack by fans of the Al-Masry Club against fans of the Al-Ahly Sports Club at Port Said Stadium on 1 February 2012. Soon at least 22 people died in violence that erupted in Port Said, Egypt, following the sentencing to death of 21 people for their roles in the Port Said Stadium disaster.\n\nOn 28 April 2014 amid the 2013 Egyptian coup d'état, An Egyptian judge has sentenced 683 alleged Muslim Brotherhood supporters to death, including the group's supreme guide, Mohamed Badie, and confirmed the death sentences of 37 of 529 alleged supporters previously condemned. Mohamed Elmessiry, an Amnesty International researcher monitoring the cases, said they \"lacked basic fair trial guarantees\". The defendants from the first case whose death sentences were not upheld were each sentenced to 25 years in prison. \nMeanwhile, the Cairo Court for Urgent Matters banned the April 6 Movement, a grassroots organization instrumental in the 2011 revolution that Egypt’s military last year seized power ostensibly to protect.\n\nJudge Saeed Youssef first attracted international condemnation and prompted an outcry from human-rights groups after he handed down the initial sentence for the 528 defendants on March 24, following a brief trial marked by irregularities. Later he reversed 492 of those 529 death sentences, commuting most of them to life in prison.\n\nEgyptian law requires that death sentences are confirmed by the presiding judge after a comment has been invited from the Grand Mufti of Al Azhar, the country's leading religious official. The Mufti's opinion to the judge is secret. The guilty verdict and death sentences are still subject to appeal at the Court of Appeal. \"The case killed the credibility of the Egyptian judicial system,\" said Elmessiry of Amnesty International.\n\nThe violence of which the defendants are accused took place on August 14, 2013 as news reached Minya governorate that police had launched the deadly clearance of two sit-ins in Cairo, held by supporters of former President Mohamed Morsi, who had been deposed after mass protests against his rule.\n\nExecutions by hanging have generally been carried out at the Cairo Central Prison. However prisons of Wadi Al Natrun and Burj Al Arab both house an execution chamber.\n"}
{"id": "2614302", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2614302", "title": "Christian Morals", "text": "Christian Morals\n\nChristian Morals is a prose work written by the physician Sir Thomas Browne as advice for his eldest children. It was published posthumously in 1716 and consists, as its title implies, of meditations upon Christian values and conduct. \n\nThe work is divided into three sections with many of the numbered paragraphs standing-alone as text, with unique and startling imagery involving optics, perspective and appearance. A work of a lifetime's study and understanding of the human condition, in psychological terms, Browne's last major work may be considered as advice on obtaining individuation and self-realization as much as Christian virtue.\n\nStylistically, it displays some of the best and worst excesses of Browne's at times labyrinthine and meandering baroque style, often involving parallelisms in its sentence construction. \n\n\"Christian Morals\" was edited by Samuel Johnson in 1756; Johnson prefaced his edition with a biography of Browne. His latter prose imitated aspects of Browne's late prose-style.\n\nUniversity of Chicago online text Christian Morals\n"}
{"id": "31186234", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31186234", "title": "Chroococcidiopsis", "text": "Chroococcidiopsis\n\nChroococcidiopsis is one of the most primitive cyanobacteria known. It is a photosynthetic, coccoidal bacterium and while a diversity of species and cultures exist within the genus, with a diversity of phenotypes, some members of the genus are known for their ability to survive harsh environmental conditions, including both high and low temperatures, ionizing radiation, and high salinity. Organisms capable of living in such harsh conditions are referred to as extremophiles.\n\nThe ability of \"Chroococcidiopsis\" to resist desiccation in arid environments is due in part because it colonizes the underside of translucent rocks. The underside of these rocks provides enough condensed moisture for growth while the rock's translucent nature allows just enough light to reach the organism for photosynthesis to occur.\n\nDue to its resistance to harsh environmental conditions, especially low temperature, low moisture, and radiation tolerance, \"Chroococcidiopsis\" has been thought of as an organism capable of living on Mars. Scientists have speculated about the possibly of introducing \"Chroococcidiopsis\" to the Martian environment to aid in the formation of an aerobic environment. In addition to oxygen production, \"Chroococcidiopsis\" could aid in the formation of soil on the Martian surface. On Earth, soil is formed from the decomposition of organic matter. On Mars, because no organic matter is present, the organic material from the microbes themselves would provide the necessary organic matter. The soil and oxygen produced by these organisms could one day provide the conditions necessary for humans to grow food on Mars, possibly allowing for permanent human civilizations on the planet. On a shorter time scale, cyanobacteria such as \"Chroococcidiopsis\" could be used in closed systems to produce resources for manned outposts on Mars without altering the planet's surface or atmosphere.\n\nA space mission called EXPOSE-R2 was launched on 24 July 2014 aboard the Russian Progress M-24M, and was attached on 18 August 2014 outside the ISS on the Russian module Zvezda. The experiment includes samples of \"Chroococcidiopsis\" that will be exposed to simulated Martian atmosphere, UVC radiation and temperature extremes.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "996026", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=996026", "title": "Commonsense reasoning", "text": "Commonsense reasoning\n\nCommonsense reasoning is one of the branches of artificial intelligence (AI) that is concerned with simulating the human ability to make presumptions about the type and essence of ordinary situations they encounter every day. These assumptions include judgments about the physical properties, purpose, intentions and behavior of people and objects, as well as possible outcomes of their actions and interactions. A device that exhibits commonsense reasoning will be capable of predicting results and drawing conclusions that are similar to humans' folk psychology (humans' innate ability to reason about people's behavior and intentions) and naive physics (humans' natural understanding of the physical world).\n\nIn Artificial intelligence, commonsense knowledge is the set of background information that an individual is intended to know or assume and the ability to use it when appropriate. It is a shared knowledge (between everybody or people in a particular culture or age group only). The way to obtain commonsense is by learning it or experiencing it. In communication, it is what people don’t have to say because the interlocutor is expected to know or make a presumption about.\n\nThe commonsense knowledge problem is a current project in the sphere of artificial intelligence to create a database that contains the general knowledge most individuals are expected to have, represented in an accessible way to artificial intelligence programs that use natural language. Due to the broad scope of the commonsense knowledge this issue is considered to be among the most difficult ones in the AI research sphere. In order for any task to be done as a human mind would manage it, the machine is required to appear as intelligent as a human being. Such tasks include object recognition, machine translation and text mining. To perform them, the machine has to be aware of the same concepts that an individual, who possess commonsense knowledge, recognizes.\n\nIn 1961, Bar Hillel first discussed the need and significance of practical knowledge for natural language processing in the context of machine translation. Some ambiguities are resolved by using simple and easy to acquire rules. Others require a broad acknowledgement of the surrounding world, thus they require more commonsense knowledge. For instance when a machine is used to translate a text, problems of ambiguity arise, which could be easily resolved by attaining a concrete and true understanding of the context. Online translators often resolve ambiguities using analogous or similar words. For example, in translating the sentences \"The electrician is working\" and \"The telephone is working\" into German, the machine translates correctly \"working\" in the means of \"laboring\" in the first one and as \"functioning properly\" in the second one. The machine has seen and read in the body of texts that the German words for \"laboring\" and \"electrician\" are frequently used in a combination and are found close together. The same applies for \"telephone\" and \"function properly\". However, the statistical proxy which works in simple cases often fails in complex ones. Existing computer programs carry out simple language tasks by manipulating short phrases or separate words, but they don’t attempt any deeper understanding and focus on short-term results.\n\nIssues of this kind arise in computer vision. For instance when looking at the photograph of the bathroom (figure 1) some of the items that are small and only partly seen, such as the towels or the body lotions, are recognizable due to the surrounding objects (toilet, wash basin, bathtub), which suggest the purpose of the room. In an isolated image they would be difficult to identify. Movies prove to be even more difficult tasks. Some movies contain scenes and moments that cannot be understood by simply matching memorized templates to images. For instance, to understand the context of the movie, the viewer is required to make inferences about characters’ intentions and make presumptions depending on their behavior. In the contemporary state of the art, it is impossible to build and manage a program that will perform such tasks as reasoning, i.e. predicting characters’ actions. The most that can be done is to identify basic actions and track characters.\n\nThe need and importance of commonsense reasoning in autonomous robots that work in a real-life uncontrolled environment is evident. For instance, if a robot is programmed to perform the tasks of a waiter on a cocktail party, and it sees that the glass he had picked up is broken, the waiter-robot should not pour liquid into the glass, but instead pick up another one. Such tasks seem obvious when an individual possess simple commonsense reasoning, but to ensure that a robot will avoid such mistakes is challenging.\n\nSignificant progress in the field of the automated commonsense reasoning is made in the areas of the taxonomic reasoning, actions and change reasoning, reasoning about time. Each of these spheres has a well-acknowledged theory for wide range of commonsense inferences.\n\nTaxonomy is the collection of individuals and categories and their relations. Taxonomies are often referred to as semantic networks. Figure 2 displays a taxonomy of a few categories of individuals and animals.\nThree basic relations are demonstrated:\nTransitivity is one type of inference in taxonomy. Since \"Tweety\" is an instance of \"robin\" and \"robin\" is a subset of \"bird\", it follows that \"Tweety\" is an instance of \"bird\". Inheritance is another type of inference. Since \"Tweety\" is an instance of \"robin\", which is a subset of \"bird\" and \"bird\" is marked with property \"canfly\", it follows that \"Tweety\" and \"robin\" have property \"canfly\". When an individual taxonomizes more abstract categories, outlining and delimiting specific categories becomes more problematic. Simple taxonomic structures are frequently used in AI programs. For instance, WordNet is a resource including a taxonomy, whose elements are meanings of English words. Web mining systems used to collect commonsense knowledge from Web documents focus on taxonomic relations and specifically in gathering taxonomic relations.\n\nThe theory of action, events and change is another range of the commonsense reasoning. There are established reasoning methods for domains that satisfy the constraints listed below:\n\nTemporal reasoning is the ability to make presumptions about humans' knowledge of times, durations and time intervals. For example, if an individual knows that Mozart was born after Hadyn and died earlier than him, they can use their temporal reasoning knowledge to deduce that Mozart had died younger than Hadyn. The inferences involved reduce themselves to solving systems of linear inequalities. To integrate that kind of reasoning with concrete purposes, such as natural language interpretation, is more challenging, because natural language expressions have context dependent interpretation. Simple tasks such as assigning timestamps to procedures cannot be done with total accuracy.\n\nQualitative reasoning is the form of commonsense reasoning analyzed with certain success. It is concerned with the direction of change in interrelated quantities. For instance, if the price of a stock goes up, the amount of stocks that are going to be sold will go down. If some ecosystem contains wolves and lambs and the number of wolves decreases, the death rate of the lambs will go down as well. This theory was firstly formulated by Johan de Kleer, who analyzed an object moving on a roller coaster. The theory of qualitative reasoning is applied in many spheres such as physics, biology, engineering, ecology, etc. It serves as the basis for many practical programs, analogical mapping, text understanding.\n\nAs of 2014, there are some commercial systems trying to make the use of commonsense reasoning significant. However, they use statistical information as a proxy for commonsense knowledge, where reasoning is absent. Current programs manipulate individual words, but they don't attempt or offer further understanding. Five major obstacles interfere with the producing of a satisfactory \"commonsense reasoner\".\n\nFirst, some of the domains that are involved in commonsense reasoning are only partly understood. Individuals are far from a comprehensive understanding of domains as communication and knowledge, interpersonal interactions or physical processes.\n\nSecond, situations that seem easily predicted or assumed about could have logical complexity, which humans’ commonsense knowledge does not cover. Some aspects of similar situations are studied and are well understood, but there are many relations that are unknown, even in principle and how they could be represented in a form that is usable by computers.\n\nThird, commonsense reasoning involves plausible reasoning. It requires coming to a reasonable conclusion given what is already known. Plausible reasoning has been studied for many years and there are a lot of theories developed that include probabilistic reasoning and non-monotonic logic. It takes different forms that include using unreliable data and rules, whose conclusions are not certain sometimes.\n\nFourth, there are many domains, in which a small number of examples are extremely frequent, whereas there is a vast number of highly infrequent examples.\n\nFifth, when formulating pressumptions it is challenging to discern and determine the level of abstraction.\n\nCompared with humans, all existing computer programs perform extremely poorly on modern \"commonsense reasoning\" benchmark tests such as the Winograd Schema Challenge. The problem of attaining human-level competency at \"commonsense knowledge\" tasks is considered to probably be \"AI complete\" (that is, solving it would require the ability to synthesize a human-level intelligence).\n\nCommonsense’s reasoning study is divided into knowledge-based approaches and approaches that are based on machine learning over and using a large data corpora with limited interactions between these two types of approaches. There are also crowdsourcing approaches, attempting to construct a knowledge basis by linking the collective knowledge and the input of non-expert people. Knowledge-based approaches can be separated into approaches based on mathematical logic.\n\nIn knowledge-based approaches, the experts are analyzing the characteristics of the inferences that are required to do reasoning in a specific area or for a certain task. The knowledge-based approaches consist of mathematically grounded approaches, informal knowledge-based approaches and large-scale approaches. The mathematically grounded approaches are purely theoretical and the result is a printed paper instead of a program. The work is limited to the range of the domains and the reasoning techniques that are being reflected on. In informal knowledge-based approaches, theories of reasoning are based on anecdotal data and intuition that are results from empirical behavioral psychology. Informal approaches are common in computer programming. Two other popular techniques for extracting commonsense knowledge from Web documents involve Web mining and Crowd sourcing.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "28209927", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28209927", "title": "Contingent beneficiary", "text": "Contingent beneficiary\n\nA contingent beneficiary is someone who benefits from a contingent contract; they profit from a promise, which may or may be fulfilled, to do or abstain from doing a certain thing. This matter itself is realized only on the happening of some future uncertain event.\n\nIn the context of an insurance policy, the condition is generally the death of the insurance contract holder; the party who benefits is referred to as the primary beneficiary.\n"}
{"id": "27605494", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27605494", "title": "Diesel therapy", "text": "Diesel therapy\n\nDiesel therapy is a form of punishment in which prisoners are shackled and then transported for days or weeks. It has been described as \"the cruelest aspect of being a federal inmate.\" It has been alleged that some inmates are deliberately sent to incorrect destinations as an exercise of diesel therapy. Voluntary surrender at the prison where the inmate will serve his time is recommended as a way of avoiding diesel therapy. The case of former U.S. Representative George V. Hansen involved accusations of diesel therapy, as did the case of Susan McDougal, one of the few people who served prison time as a result of the Whitewater controversy. Diesel therapy is sometimes used on disruptive inmates, including gang members. Other alleged recipients include Rudy Stanko, who was also the defendant in the speeding case that ended Montana's \"free speed\" period.\n\nThe term \"diesel therapy,\" or \"dumping,\" is also used to refer to a method by law-enforcement personnel of getting rid of troublesome individuals by placing them on a bus to another jurisdiction. This is also known as bus therapy and is akin to Greyhound therapy in health care.\n\n"}
{"id": "52508819", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52508819", "title": "Dual process model of coping", "text": "Dual process model of coping\n\nMargaret Stroebe and Henk Schut studied grief in \"The Dual Process Model of Coping with Bereavement: A Decade On\". In this study, the models of coping were examined and how it could be of benefit compared to others. They came up with a dual process model to represent human grief. They explain coping with bereavement, a state of loss can be a combination of accepting and confronting it. It informs on how the combination of healthy emotional catharsis and changing perspective can be a good and healthy process to cope. Being able to confront the situation and also deal with everyday life events allows the person to live their lives with desired states of stability in a subjective post-loss world in which bereaved persons find themselves (Parkes, 1993).\n\nBereavement and the adjective bereaved derive from a verb, 'reave', which means \"to despoil, rob, or forcibly deprive\" according to the Oxford English Dictionary. Thus, a bereaved person is one who has been deprived, robbed, plundered, or stripped of someone or something that they valued. Reaction to this state or impact of loss is called grief. According to Lazarus and Folkman (1984), coping strategies are the \"constantly changing cognitive and behavioural efforts to manage specific external and/or internal demands that are appraised as taxing on or exceeding the resources of the person\". People vary in the ways that they grieve and also in the way that they cope. But, acknowledging it and allowing themselves to go through the motions will allow them to cope in a healthy way. To cope with the loss, the person requires to relearn the world around them and simultaneously make a multifaceted transition from loving in presence to loving in absence (Attig, 2001). A healthy relocation of the deceased internally and maintaining a healthy dynamic connectedness/relationship is observed to provide solace to the grieving, but the weightage differed in pluralistic cultural settings. Grievers will go through times of extreme sadness and also times where they are numb to what has happened. Lack of appropriate coping can bring many ailments to a person including mental and physical ailments. Coping through mourning in a state of bereavement is advised in the Bible as \"Blessed are those who mourn, for they will be comforted.\" Because it helps to achieve growth through thorough acceptance of loss, the transforming capacity of profound human experiences. Freud in 1959 through an article called this as a process of \"working through\" the grief. Healthy coping is achieved when the bereaved person is enabled to go forward with healthy, productive living by effortfully developing \"new normals\" to guide that living which is characterized by lesser stressful demands compared to initial phase of grief.\n\nGreenblatt has reviewed spousal mourning is essential for transition. He describes 4 phases of mourning: the initial reaction of shock, numbness, denial and disbelief; followed by pining, yearning, depression then in a healthy environment resolution phase begins with emancipation from the loved one and readjustment to the new environment.\n\nThe loss oriented process focuses on coping with bereavement, the loss itself, recognizing it and accepting it. In this process a person will express feelings of grief with all the losses that occur from losing their loved one. There will be many changes from work to family and friendships. There might also be demographic changes and even economic ones. During this time, people either acknowledge these changes head or ruminate on feelings of lose which might lead to distorted, complicated or prolonged grief. The loss oriented process will bring on a lot of yearning, irritability, despair, anxiety and depression. During this process they are only concentrated on their pain that this loss has caused. Lack or denial of early adaptive acknowledgement that they will no longer speak to deceased or see them again might instigate compulsive and self-destructive behaviors. People attached with the deceased have to reconfigure their identity as an autonomous being. These process in a non-resilient griever can appear overwhelming, and associated guilt can be exported over friends and family in an assumptive effort which might affect interpersonal relationships.\n\nIn restoration-oriented process, the loss of the loved one is accepted and attachments with the deceased are relinquished. These include focusing on the new roles in their post loss reality and responsibilities in lives. The restoration-oriented process incorporates endurance through reconstruction of perspective by taking over grief, grieving thoughts are adjusted adaptively by creating new meanings with the deceased. The restoration process is a confrontation process, that allows the person to adjust with the world without the deceased. People in this process can feel subjective oscillations of pride and grief related stressors in the avoidance mentalization. This process allows the person to live their daily life as a changed individual without being consumed by the grieving they are facing. William Worden calls this as the four tasks of grief. Therese A. Rando calls the letting go process as emancipation from bondage due to the strength required for change and recovery.\n\nThe dual process model of coping takes into consideration that everyone will have stressful life events, while they are coping with bereavement. Their lives will continue and so will the problems associated with it. There will be many situations that will take them away from grieving. These situations can either benefit them or affect them negatively if they allow them to. Being aware and prepared to change can allow them to continue and deal with post loss life events.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "35717851", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35717851", "title": "Duncan Reed", "text": "Duncan Reed\n\nDuncan Cameron \"Cam\" Reed (July 2, 1815 - September 14, 1890) was an American steamship engineer and politician, an early settler of Milwaukee. He served two terms as a Democratic member of the Wisconsin State Senate, and as coroner of Milwaukee County. He served briefly as an officer in the American Civil War, then went to work as a boiler inspector.\n\nReed was born in Shelburn, Vermont on July 2, 1815. He became a marine engineer, and had visited Milwaukee at least as early as 1834. He moved to Milwaukee permanently on July 8, 1841, arriving as chief engineer of the steamship \"City of Milwaukee\" or \"Milwaukee\" (reputedly \"the fastest boat on the lakes at that time\"), which he had helped to sneak out of the harbor of Buffalo, New York at the instigation of Solomon Juneau, part-owner thereof, who claimed that the boat was being retained in Buffalo unjustly by the other owners. He remained in the engineering trade, serving on lake steamers such as the \"C. C. Trowbridge\", the \"Andromeda\" and the \"Nucleus\". In 1851, he was one of a group (including Alexander Mitchell, George H. Walker, Increase Lapham and others) which petitioned the state legislature for a charter for the Milwaukee and Fond du Lac Railroad, one of the short-lived railroad companies which would eventually become part of the Chicago, Milwaukee, St. Paul and Pacific Railroad system.\n\nAs of 1853, he was 37 years of age; his biographical listing showed that he was an \"engineer\", was born in Vermont and had lived in Wisconsin for 12 years. Reed served four years (1850-1853) as a Democratic member of the State Senate, first from the Eighteenth District, then (after a redistricting) from the Sixth. During the 1853 session, he served as President pro tempore of the Senate. He was succeeded in the Senate by fellow Democrat Edward McGarry.\n\nHe served four years as a deputy United States Marshal; and in 1858 was elected coroner for Milwaukee County.\n\nIn 1853 Reed was a Colonel of the First Regiment, First Division of the Wisconsin Militia under Major General Rufus King.\n\nOn August 21, 1862, he was commissioned a Captain of the 24th Wisconsin Volunteer Infantry Regiment (which \"Cam\" had helped organize) commanding Company \"E\"; but he was discharged in January 1863.\n\nAfter the war, he worked as a professional boiler inspector, billing various state agencies for that service. He was appointed a boiler inspector for the Steamboat Inspection Service of the United States government during the Grant administration, a position he would hold until his death.\n\nReed married Mary Hanes in 1837. An adopted daughter, Frances Dela Bates, died at the age of five in 1854. Mary Hanes Reed died in 1883. They had one daughter, Mary L. (Reed) McIntyre, known as \"Mamie\", who would survive them both.\n\nReed was one of the founding members of the Old Settlers Club of Milwaukee; and of the State Historical Society of Wisconsin, as well as a state Grand Master of the Odd Fellows fraternal order. Reed Street (later renamed South Second Street) in the old Third Ward of Milwaukee was named after him; when he had first settled there at what would become the corner of Greenfield and Reed Street, it was a mere wilderness trail with but three houses upon it.\n\nHe died of dropsy on September 14, 1890, after a long illness. He was buried in Forest Home Cemetery.\n"}
{"id": "49223016", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49223016", "title": "Electrolithoautotroph", "text": "Electrolithoautotroph\n\nAn Electrolithoautotroph is an organism which feeds on electricity. These organisms use electricity to convert carbon dioxide to organic matters by using electrons directly taken from solid-inorganic electron donors. Electrolithoautotrophs are microorganisms which are found in the deep crevices of the ocean. The warm, mineral-rich environment provides a rich source of nutrients. The electron source for carbon assimilation from diffusible Fe(2+) ions to an electrode under the condition that electrical current is the only source of energy and electrons. Electrolithoautotrophs form a third metabolic pathway compared to photosynthesis (plants converting light into sugar) and chemosynthesis (animals consuming food)\n"}
{"id": "40926196", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40926196", "title": "Friedrich Uebelhoer", "text": "Friedrich Uebelhoer\n\nFriedrich Uebelhoer (born 25 September 1893 in Rothenburg ob der Tauber, Bavaria – presumed died 1945) was a German politician and official with the Nazi Party.\n\nUebelhoer served as an officer in the German Imperial Army in the First World War. He joined the Nazi Party initially in 1922 then again in 1925, following the revocation of the ban placed on the group after the Munich putsch.\n\nHe became Kreisleiter in Naumburg (Saale) in 1931. He was Mayor of Naumburg from 1933 to 1939 and also served as head of the National Socialist People's Welfare in Gau Halle-Merseburg.\n\nUebelhoer held the rank of Brigadeführer in the Schutzstaffel and received commendation for his involvement in the annexation of the Sudetenland and for his part in the Anschluss. Following the occupation of Poland, he served as an inspector in the Reichsgau Wartheland. In Łódź he ordered the construction of the Jewish ghetto on December 10, 1939, a measure he described as only temporary, adding that ultimately the Nazis intended to \"burn out this plague dump\".\n\nIn early October 1941, Uebelhoer drew the ire of Reinhard Heydrich when he vehemently protested against the intended deportation of 60,000 German Jews to the already overcrowded ghetto. In letters to one another, Heydrich threatened to draw \"appropriate conclusions\" if Uebelhoer did not change his stance. Through negotiations with Adolf Eichmann, the number eventually reached was 20,000 Jews and 5,000 Gypsies sent to Łódź, with tens of thousands sent to other ghettos. In November that year, to assuage Uebelhoer's qualms about ghetto arson started by Gypsies, Heinrich Himmler advised Uebelhoer to shoot ten Gypsies for every fire that broke out within the ghetto. Those Gypsies who did not perish in the Łódź Ghetto were killed by gas vans in January 1942 in Chełmno.\n\nUebelhoer was dismissed from his post as governor of Łódź in December 1942 after being accused of embezzlement by Arthur Greiser. The charges were ultimately unproven, but the suspicion damaged his reputation and halted his advancement in the SS. He would return in January 1944 in the lesser role of governor of the Merseburg district.\n\nUebelhoer disappeared in the latter days of the Second World War and remained unaccounted for. He was declared legally dead in 1950.\n\n"}
{"id": "1522987", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1522987", "title": "Gonochorism", "text": "Gonochorism\n\nIn biology, gonochorism (\"Greek\" offspring + disperse) or unisexualism or gonochory describes the state of having just one of at least two distinct sexes in any one individual organism. The term is most often used with animals, in which the individual organisms are often gonochorous. Gonochory is less common in plants. For example, in flowering plants, individual flowers may be hermaphroditic (i.e. with both stamens and ovaries) or gonochorous (unisexual), having either no stamens (i.e. no male parts) or no ovaries (i.e. no female parts). Among flowering plant species that have unisexual flowers, some also produce hermaphrodite flowers, and the three types occur in different arrangements on separate plants; species can be monoecious, dioecious, trioecious, polygamomonoecious, polygamodioecious, andromonoecious, or gynomonoecious.\n\nSex is most often genetically determined, but may be determined by other mechanisms. For example, alligators use temperature-dependent sex determination during egg incubation. Examples of gonochoric or dioecious pollination include hollies and kiwifruit. In these plants the male plant that supplies the pollen is referred to as the pollenizer.\n\nGonochorism stands in contrast to other reproductive strategies such as asexual reproduction and hermaphroditism. The sex of an individual may also change during its lifetime – this sequential hermaphroditism can for example be found in parrotfish and cockles.\n\n"}
{"id": "55604224", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55604224", "title": "Goyases School shooting", "text": "Goyases School shooting\n\nIn the morning of October 20, 2017 a student of the private school Goyases, in the Brazilian Goiás state capital Goiânia, opened fire against his classmates, leaving two dead, and four injured.\n\nHe tried to commit suicide but was convinced not to for a school teacher, being arrested minutes after the incident.\n\nIn testimony for the local police, he claimed been inspired for the Columbine school shooting on Colorado and the Realengo school shooting, in the Brazilian City of Rio de Janeiro. The police investigation stated that the student suffered bullying from his classmates.\n"}
{"id": "20847310", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20847310", "title": "HMT Islay", "text": "HMT Islay\n\nHMT \"Islay\" (T172) was a British Royal Navy Isles class armed trawler of the Second World War.\n\nWhile under the command of C. H. L. Clarke RNR, on 28 June 1942, \"Islay\" picked up 19 survivors from the British merchant steamer which had been hit by two torpedoes from the German submarine \"U-97\" in the Mediterranean Sea to the southwest of Haifa and had sunk with the loss of 14 crew members and gunners.\n\nOn 10 August 1942, \"Islay\" sank the Italian submarine \"Scirè\" in Haifa Bay while under the command of Lieutenant Commander John Ross of North Shields, Tyne and Wear, who was awarded the Distinguished Service Cross for his actions. \"Scirè\" was carrying 11 \"Decima Flottiglia MAS\" commandos, who were intending to attack shipping in Haifa harbour by means of human torpedoes. Royal Air Force aircraft and coastal artillery also were involved in the sinking, which had been facilitated by Ultra intelligence. \"Scirè\" had previously launched human torpedo attacks on British naval units in Gibraltar and Alexandria, Egypt.\n\nIn October 1946, the ship was sold into commercial service. Operating under the French flag as \"Sainte Anne\", she disappeared without trace in the Mediterranean Sea after a last communication while off the Balearic Islands on 15 March 1950.\n"}
{"id": "46502898", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46502898", "title": "Harold Wilkins (murderer)", "text": "Harold Wilkins (murderer)\n\nHarold Wilkins (born 1916; date of death unknown) was the last juvenile to be sentenced to the death penalty in the United Kingdom, in 1932 at the age of 16 though his sentence was later commuted due to his age. Wilkins was convicted of the \"sexually related murder\" of Ethel Corey.\n\nThe execution of those under the age of 16 had been banned by the Children Act 1908. The age was further raised to 18 in the year after Wilkins' conviction, under the Children and Young Persons Act 1933.\n"}
{"id": "3541535", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3541535", "title": "Infradian rhythm", "text": "Infradian rhythm\n\nInfradian rhythm is, in chronobiology a rhythm with a duration longer than that of a circadian rhythm, i.e. with a frequency less than one cycle in 28 hours, Examples include the menstrual cycle, breeding and tidal or seasonal rhythms. Ultradian rhythms by contrast, have periods shorter than the period of a circadian rhythm. A number of infradian rhythms are known to be caused by hormone stimulation or exogenous factors for example seasonal depression, linked to the lowering of light levels during winter.\n\n"}
{"id": "16862183", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16862183", "title": "John Gordon, 3rd Earl of Aboyne", "text": "John Gordon, 3rd Earl of Aboyne\n\nJohn Gordon, 3rd Earl of Aboyne (died 7 April 1732) was the son of Charles Gordon, 2nd Earl of Aboyne and Elizabeth Lyon. He succeeded his father as 3rd Earl of Aboyne in April 1702. On his death in 1732 he was succeeded in his titles by his eldest son.\n\nHe married Grace Lockhart, daughter of George Lockhart and Lady Euphemia Montgomerie, on 20 June 1724, and had issue:\n\n"}
{"id": "34319680", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34319680", "title": "Joseph L. Barber", "text": "Joseph L. Barber\n\nJoseph Lanning Barber (March 24, 1864 – April 6, 1940) was a medical doctor and a member of the Wisconsin State Senate and the Wisconsin State Assembly.\n\nBarber was born on March 24, 1864 in Hayton, Wisconsin. He attended the University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign. In 1899, he married Ella Webb. Their daughter, Mildred Barber Abel, became a member of the Wisconsin State Assembly. It marked the first time a father and daughter served together in a state legislature in the history of the United States. Barber was a member of the Methodist Episcopal Church, as well as Modern Woodmen of America.\n\nAfter Barber first began practicing medicine, he became Health Officer of Greenwood, Wisconsin and Coroner of Clark County, Wisconsin before moving to Collins, Wisconsin. He moved to Marathon City, Wisconsin in 1906 and opened a practice and later a pharmacy.\n\nAfter serving as President of Marathon, Wisconsin, Barber was elected to the Senate in 1922, where he served two terms. He was also a delegate to the 1920 Republican National Convention. Barber was first elected to the Assembly in 1925 and was re-elected in 1928 and 1934. He was a member of the Progressive Party. In addition, he was a member of the Marathon County, Wisconsin Board of Supervisors from 1924 to 1925 and again from 1931 to 1932.\n\nHe died at his home on April 6, 1940 and is buried in Wausau, Wisconsin.\n"}
{"id": "9589323", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9589323", "title": "Joseph Watson, 1st Baron Manton", "text": "Joseph Watson, 1st Baron Manton\n\nJoseph Watson, 1st Baron Manton (10 February 1873 – 13 March 1922) was an English industrialist from Leeds, Yorkshire.\n\nHe was chairman of Joseph Watson & Sons Ltd, soap manufacturers, of Leeds and a director of the London and North-Western Railway, in the late 19th century the largest joint stock company in the world. He became in later life a pioneer of industrialised agriculture in England and a successful racehorse owner. He was step-great-grandfather to David Cameron, former Prime Minister of the United Kingdom.\n\nWatson was the only son of George Watson, soap manufacturer, of Donisthorpe House near Moor Allerton, Leeds, Yorkshire. He was educated at Repton School and Clare College, Cambridge. he was recalled to the family firm before completing his degree, becoming chairman at a young age.\n\nJoseph went to work at his grandfather's company, Joseph Watson & Sons, and turned the company from the medium-sized concern built up by his father and uncle Charles into one which ruled the soap market of North-East England, with national and international markets, becoming William Lever's biggest rival\n\nOn 4 August 1906 Watson and William Lever, by then the largest manufacturer, met in the Grand Hotel in London to finalise a plan to set up a \"Soap Trust\" which would merge the major soap manufacturers into a monopoly, thereby gaining economies of scale in advertising and production costs. Watson favoured the use of a parent company whilst Lever preferred a scheme of exchange of shares between participating companies to bind them together. This occurred during a period of many corporate trusts in the United States. The scheme was strongly opposed by the \"Daily Mail\" newspaper which campaigned for a boycott by its readers of the trust brands. Profits at participating firms were thereby severely reduced. The Northcliffe Press in its expanding and highly popular campaign overstepped the mark by falsely asserting trust soaps to be made from scented fish oil. Although Watson and Lever won substantial libel damages from the press, losses in reputation and profits had been suffered all round. On the proposal of Watson and Crosfield, another large manufacturer, the scheme was abandoned in November 1906. By then Watson had already disposed of much of his shareholding, previously all held by himself and his uncle Charles, to William Lever, in exchange for Lever Brothers shares to set up the trust.\n\nIn 1912/13 Watson sold much of his remaining shareholding to Lever (Lever Brothers Ltd., later Unilever) and sold to him the remainder in July 1917, but remained as chairman. He had sold his half share in the Planter's Margarine Co Ltd. to Lever in July 1915, a joint venture established in November 1914 at Godley in Cheshire with Levers, in response to Government anxiety at the wartime loss of Dutch supplies, which by 1915 was the country's second largest margarine manufacturer. He had supplied it from his Olympia Oil & Cake Co. Ltd. at Selby, Yorks which operated the largest linseed oil crushing and refining plant in Europe. It also hardened whale oil and in 1917 during WWI was allocated by the government 21% (later 25%) of British whale oil for hardening. Watson then suffered substantial losses in an unsuccessful speculation in linseed and he sold Olympia Oil & Cake to the Dutch firm Jurgens, which had outbid Levers.\n\nSpurred on by wartime food shortages, Watson began the pioneering of industrialised agriculture, and he funded the Agricultural Research Department at Leamington Spa. He founded the Olympia Agricultural Co Ltd. and invested much of his proceeds into agricultural estates totalling some at Selby (Yorks), the 5,500 acre Manton Down Estate (Wiltshire), Sudbourne (Suffolk), Offchurch (Warwickshire) and at Thorney (Cambridgeshire). His Olympia Oil & Cake Co. under the brand name \"OCO\" produced animal feeds for dairy cows, calves, lambs and pigs, all from the new source of linseed oil. The company acquired sites near Selby within the parish of Barlby between 1909–10 and their buildings later dominated the road and river frontages. Soon after 1910 the company built the first \"village estate\" of workers' housing in the area which was later expanded by other nearby employers. Before 1921 the \"Olympia Hotel\" opened near the site at Barlby Bank, which took its name from the company and used a sign showing seed-crushing machinery. The company since 1952 became part of British Oil and Cake Mills Ltd.\n\nFollowing Manton's death his executors claimed he had put £1,000,000 into agriculture and received £750,000 from sales of the properties.\n\nAt the start of the First World War Watson's industrial and organisational expertise was used to assist the government in the establishment and operation of national munitions factories, most notably at the First National Shell Filling Factory at Barnbow, Leeds.\n\nFollowing the heavy consumption of munitions in the opening battles of WWI at the Somme, the \"Northcliffe Press\" (\"Daily Mail\") brought to the public's attention what became known as \"The Shell Crisis\", signifying that the nation had given little thought to securing long-term munitions supplies needed to successfully wage an unprecedented protracted war. The Asquith government fell, to be replaced by that of Lloyd George, recently appointed Minister of Munitions to resolve the crisis. Watson as chairman of a six-man \"Leeds Munitions Committee\" made up from local industrialists, formed in August 1915, was charged by the government to immediately establish the first of 12 National Shell Filling Factories. A factory was promptly established on a greenfield site at Barnbow, close to Leeds. It resembled a small town of detached houses and huts more than a traditional factory, to contain and localise any accidental explosions. It remained the largest such operation in the country, having despatched 566,000 tons of finished ammunition overseas by the Armistice. At its height it employed 16,000 workers, 93% of whom were women and girls. Its fire brigade responded to three accidental explosions, the most serious of which occurred in 1916, killing 35 women and injuring many more.\n\nWatson hunted with the Bramham Moor Foxhounds in Yorkshire, near his home at Linton Spring, Wetherby. He was a prominent racehorse owner and in 1918 acquired from Alec Taylor, Jr. the famous Manton training establishment near Marlborough in Wiltshire. and spent £30,000 on yearlings. In 1921 he won The Oaks with Love in Idleness, and the Grand Prix de Paris, the world's richest racing prize (400,000 Francs), with \"Lemonora\" which also had gained third place in the Derby that year, all ridden by jockey Joe Childs. He was termed by the racing press Mr \"Lucky\" Watson.\n\nIn 1921 Watson donated £50,000 to the Leeds General Infirmary, of which he was a board member from 1906 to his death. The monies were used to replace some of its investments which had to be sold during WWI. A half-length bronze bas-relief portrait of Watson in his baronial robes is displayed there in the George Street entrance hall, under which is inscribed \"A Wise Counsellor and Generous Benefactor.\"\n\nOn 25 January 1922 he was raised to the peerage for his war services as Baron Manton of Compton Verney in the County of Warwick. He had purchased the Robert Adam neo-classical mansion Compton Verney and its estate in 1921 from Lord Willoughby de Broke, intending to make his seat there, which intention was not realised due to his sudden death in March 1922, before having taken up residence. Whether his elevation, at the behest of Lloyd-George, was the result of a political donation, has not been proved but the title is not amongst those generally quoted by commentators as falling into this category.\n\nJoseph Watson adopted, or was allocated by the heralds, a variation of the armorials of the Watson Earls of Rockingham, which earldom had become extinct in 1746 on the death of Thomas Watson, 3rd Earl of Rockingham. The arms of Baron Manton became :\"Argent, on a chevron azure between 4 martlets 3 in-chief and 1 in-base sable a crescent between 2 roses of the field\". For supporters he also adopted a variant of Rockingham: \"On either side a gryphon per fesse azure and argent, charged on the shoulder with a rose also argent\". The arms of the Earls of Rockingham were: \"Argent, on a chevron azure between 3 martlets sable as many crescents or\". The Rockingham supporters were: \"2 griffins argent ducally gorged or\". Manton adopted the Rockingham motto without alteration: \"Mea Gloria Fides\" (Trust is my Renown). For his crest, Manton adopted a variant of the oak tree arms of the 17th-century Watson family of Saughton, Edinburgh: crest of Baron Manton: \"a gryphon passant sable in front of an oak tree proper\". The armourials of Watson of Saughton were: \"Argent, an oak tree growing out of a mount in base proper surmounted of a fess azure\". The latter family was granted in 1818 the griffin supporters of the Earls of Rockingham, noted above.\n\nIn 1898 Joseph Watson married (Frances) Claire Nickols (d.1944), 3rd daughter of Harold Nickols (1848–1925), of Sandford House, Kirkstall, Leeds, proprietor of \"Joppa Tannery\", 87 Kirkstall Road, Leeds. Joppa Tannery was built in 1828 by Harold's father Richard Nickols as an expansion from the small tannery he had established in Bramley in 1823. The Joppa Tannery employed 300–400 people at its height and produced \"upper leather\" for shoes. It closed briefly but was re-openrd by Harold Nickols in 1900 under the name \"Harold Nickols Ltd\". It continued to be run by Harold's son Richard III Nickols, and closed in 1955. Watson had four sons by Claire Nickols:\n\n\nHe died in March 1922, aged only 49, from a heart-attack, whilst out hunting beside two of his sons. They were with the Warwickshire Foxhounds, at Upper Quinton, close to his new mansion. He died having held his title for less than two months. He was buried at his nearby manor of Offchurch, in his hunting apparel. His estate was sworn for probate at exactly one million pounds. His widow continued to reside until her death in 1936 in the mansion house of Offchurch Bury. A portrait of Joseph Watson mounted on a hunter was painted by Lynwood Palmer.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "105361", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=105361", "title": "Judgment Night (The Twilight Zone)", "text": "Judgment Night (The Twilight Zone)\n\n\"Judgment Night\" is episode 10 of the American television anthology series \"The Twilight Zone\".\n\nA man is seen standing aboard the deck of a British cargo liner crossing the Atlantic in 1942. The man's name is Carl Lanser and he appears disoriented, with no idea of how he got aboard or who he really is. He is staring into a thick fog when a man calls him to dinner. He enters the ship's dining cabin and joins the crew and passengers. The captain discusses German U-boats seen in the area and tries to reassure the nervous passengers that there is no sign that the ship has caught the attention of any lurking \"wolfpacks.\" Lanser becomes annoyed and, displaying an unusually comprehensive knowledge of submarines, explains in great detail that a single ship would be of no interest to a wolfpack and instead would most likely be pursued by a single submarine. The diners ask Lanser about his profession and how long he has been in England. Lanser hesitantly tells them that he has not been there long and that he was born in Frankfurt, Germany. Lanser appears confused, claims that he is ill and takes his leave.\n\nWhile still on deck, he speaks to a female passenger whom he met at the dinner. Lanser explains to her that he has no memory of how he came aboard the ship – he knows who he is and finds each of the passengers and crew dimly familiar but can't recall specific details. His irritation grows and he begins to rant about impending doom. The captain, suspicious due to Lanser's claims of German nationality, sends an officer to escort him to the bridge. His suspicion is compounded when Lanser cannot provide details of his life and does not have his passport on hand to verify his identity. A steward is sent to Lanser's cabin. The steward finds the cap of a German naval officer among Lanser's possessions as he helps him unpack. Inspecting it in private, Lanser discovers that sewn into the lining of the cap is his own name. Disturbed, he leaves for the ship's bar.\n\nOn the bridge, the captain and first officer are faced with a dilemma posed by the ship's engines. They are long due an overhaul and cannot maintain top speed without generating noise and thus giving away their position to any lurking U-boats. Stopping for repairs will leave them without chance of escape should they be attacked. Down in the bar, Lanser is drinking but remarks to the bartender that the engines \"don't sound right\" and that they are laboring. The ship comes to a halt to effect repairs at 12:05 which causes Lanser to undergo a moment of realization. Despite the crew's reassurances, he becomes certain that the ship will be attacked and announces that they will all be killed at 1:15. Unable to convince the crew of the danger, Lanser runs throughout the vessel desperately trying to persuade the other passengers to abandon ship only to find the corridors and cabins now mysteriously empty. At 1:15, a searchlight illuminates the deck and Lanser watches in horror as a surfaced U-boat, commanded by a Captain lieutenant Carl Lanser, immediately begins shelling the British ship. Lanser and the other passengers, now having reappeared, are killed as the ship sinks, with Lanser suffering the agony of watching the innocent people die at precisely the time that he had predicted and being powerless to help them.\n\nSome time later, Captain Lanser is in his cabin aboard the U-boat, recording that night's kill. With him is the second-in-command, Lt. Mueller, who is deeply disturbed by their merciless killing of civilians and speculates whether the crew of the U-boat are now damned. Unconcerned, Lanser replies they \"most certainly are\" in the eyes of the British, but Mueller fears they are now damned in the eyes of God. Despite Lanser's skepticism of the idea, Mueller believes that they may be condemned to relive the final moments of the passengers on the doomed ship for eternity. Mueller's fears are realized – the attacking U-boat and its crew are condemned to sink the defenseless vessel over and over, with Lanser as an unwitting victim among those slaughtered without mercy. The story thus recounts Carl Lanser's private hell as the former U-boat commander re-materializes on the deck of the ship and the nightmare begins again...\n\nIn the first 18 episodes, Serling only had one minor conflict with CBS regarding episode content. In an interview with Mike Wallace on September 22, 1959, Serling said, \"We changed, in eighteen scripts, Mike, we have had one line changed, which, again, was a little ludicrous but of insufficient basic concern within the context of the story, not to put up a fight. On a bridge of a British ship, a sailor calls down to the galley and asks in my script for a pot of tea, because I believe that it's constitutionally acceptable in the British Navy to drink tea. One of my sponsors happens to sell instant coffee (Sanka), and he took great umbrage, or at least minor umbrage anyway, with the idea of saying tea. Well, we had a couple of swings back and forth, nothing serious, and we decided we'd ask for a tray to be sent up to the bridge. But in eighteen scripts, that's the only conflict we've had.\"\n\nIn the 1960 issue of \"Broadcasting\", Serling complained: \"You can't 'ford' a river if it's sponsored by Chevy; you can't offer someone a 'match' if it's sponsored by Ronson lighters.\" And \"The Twilight Zone Companion\" joked that it was a good thing the sponsor didn't figure out people could drink water else the episode would have happened on dry land.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "42182708", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42182708", "title": "Karl May Museum", "text": "Karl May Museum\n\nThe Karl May Museum is a museum in Radebeul, Germany named after the German author Karl May, containing artifacts from May's life as well as from life on the American frontier and Native American life of that era.\n\nGerman author Karl May (1842–1912), wrote many books about the American frontier and Native Americans featuring the fictional characters Winnetou (a Mescalero-Apache Chief) and Old Shatterhand (a white European settler). Mays' books were popular in Germany and created a mystique about the \"Wild West\" in German popular culture. \n\nThe museum opened in 1928 in Radebeul, in the house where May had lived, called Villa Shatterhand. It was founded during a peak of interest in the US frontier and native Americans, fostered in part by the Sarrasani circus, which was headquartered in nearby Dresden, and which was very popular in the 1920s. Sarassani and Native American members of the circus came to the opening, and the Native Americans performed death songs for May. \n\nThe museum was founded by May's widow and an eccentric Austrian named , who was a fan of May's work and had travelled to the American frontier, and liked to tell tall tales about his time there. Tobis donated a large collection of artifacts to help found the museum's collection, which included 17 scalps, some of them from Native Americans.\n\nWhen the Nazis took over Germany, they appropriated the museum and the image of May, and were especially focused on swastikas that appeared in some of the Native American artwork. Hitler Youth were encouraged to visit the museum and to hear stories from Tobis.\n\nAfter World War II, the original museum was in East Germany and a replica was built in Bamburg in West Germany. A person who called himself Chief Buffalo Child Long Lance became associated with the museum shortly after the war ended. \n\nFrom 1956 to 1984, the museum in Radebul was called the \"Indianer Museum\", because May's books were suppressed by the East German government, in part because of the association with the Nazis, but also because the books were viewed as leading people to want to travel, which the government did not allow. During the Cold War placards in the museum in Radebeul and its displays were refactored to describe oppression of Native Americans by the US, as part of Soviet propaganda efforts to rally indigenous people against the West. Some East Germans also did work with the American Indian Movement. \n\nThe museum in Radebul was given its original name again in 1986, as the East German government moved to reclaim May. The renaming led to an exhibition focused on May in February, which had 4,000 visitors a day, and people waited for three hours outside to get in. After the Berlin Wall fell in 1989, attendance at the Radebul museum dropped from around 300,000 people per year to around 60,000, as people could travel to the US instead of visiting the museum, which had been one of the only sources of information about Native Americans in East Germany. \n\nIn 2010, according to the \"South China Morning Post\", US activists began seeking repatriation of the scalps. Berlin-based journalist Mark Worth brought the scalps to the attention of Karen Little Coyote of the Cheyenne and Arapaho Tribes, who wrote a letter asking for the scalps to be returned in the fall of 2013. In 2013, the German Museums Association issued a guideline on the care of human remains, listing scalps from peoples who \"fashioned trophies from the heads of their killed enemies\" as an exception to \"human remains acquired in a context of injustice\". In March 2014, Cecil E. Pavlat, who works on return of artifacts for the Sault Ste. Marie Tribe of Chippewa Indians, wrote a letter asking for return of the scalps. Later in 2014, the Museum agreed to turn the scalps over to another institution for authentication. The Museum had not returned the scalps as of 2016, saying there were doubts about the original story of the provenance of the 17 scalps, although they did remove them from public display.\n\nThe director of the museum in Radebul from 1985 to 2014 was René Wagner; Christian Wacker was appointed director in 2018.\n\nThe museum received a donation of new artifacts in 2018.\n\n"}
{"id": "11710805", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11710805", "title": "Lamberto II da Polenta", "text": "Lamberto II da Polenta\n\nLamberto II da Polenta (died 1347) was briefly jointly lord of Ravenna and Cervia from 1346 until his death.\n\nHe was the son of Ostasio I da Polenta. In 1346 he inherited the family lordships together with his brothers Bernardino I and Pandolfo. Bernardino, however, had both Pandolfo and Lamberto imprisoned in Cervia after one year, where they died of starvation.\n\n"}
{"id": "12439103", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12439103", "title": "List of International Rehabilitation Council for Torture Victims members", "text": "List of International Rehabilitation Council for Torture Victims members\n\nThe following is a list of members of the International Rehabilitation Council for Torture Victims.\n\nAlbania\n\nArgentina\n\nArmenia\n\nAustralia\n\nAustria\n\nBangladesh\n\nBolivia\n\nBosnia and Herzegovina\n\nBrazil\n\nBulgaria\n\nCambodia\n\nCameroon\n\nCanada\n\nChile\n\nColombia\n\nCongo (Democratic Republic of the)\n\nCroatia\n\nDenmark\n\nEcuador\n\nEgypt\n\nEthiopia\n\nFinland\n\nFrance\n\nGeorgia\n\nGermany\n\nGreece\n\nGuatemala\n\nHonduras\n\nHungary\n\nIndia\n\nIndonesia\n\nIran (Islamic Republic of)\n\nIraq\n\nIreland\n\nItaly\n\nKenya\n\nKosovo\n\nKyrgyz Republic\n\nLebanon\n\nLiberia\n\nMexico\n\nMoldova (Republic of)\n\nMorocco\n\nNamibia\n\nNepal\n\nNetherlands\n\nNew Zealand\n\nNigeria\n\nPakistan\n\nPalestinian Territory (Occupied)\n\nParaguay\n\nPeru\n\nPhilippines\n\nPoland\n\nRomania\n\nRussian Federation\n\nRwanda\n\nSenegal\n\nSerbia\n\nSouth Africa\n\nSri Lanka\n\nSudan\n\nSweden\n\nSwitzerland\n\nTurkey\n\nUganda\n\nUkraine\n\nUnited Kingdom\n\nUnited States of America\n\nVenezuela\n\nZimbabwe\n"}
{"id": "33350084", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33350084", "title": "List of foodborne illness outbreaks by death toll", "text": "List of foodborne illness outbreaks by death toll\n\nThis is a list of foodborne illness outbreaks by death toll, caused by infectious disease, heavy metals, chemical contamination, or from natural toxins, such as those found in poisonous mushrooms.\n\n"}
{"id": "10593154", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10593154", "title": "List of popes who died violently", "text": "List of popes who died violently\n\nA collection of popes who have had violent deaths through the centuries. The circumstances have ranged from martyrdom (Pope Stephen I) to war (Lucius II), to a beating by a jealous husband (Pope John XII). A number of other popes have died under circumstances that some believe to be murder, but for which definitive evidence has not been found.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3016399", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3016399", "title": "List of recombinant proteins", "text": "List of recombinant proteins\n\nThe following is a list of notable proteins that are generated from recombinant DNA, using biomolecular engineering, focusing on those that are used in human and veterinary medicine. In many cases, recombinant human proteins have replaced the original animal-derived version used in medicine. The prefix \"rh\" for \"recombinant human\" appears less and less in the literature. \n\nA much larger number of recombinant proteins is used in the research laboratory. These include both commercially available proteins (for example most of the enzymes used in the molecular biology laboratory), and those that are generated in the course specific research projects.\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2173686", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2173686", "title": "Logical holism", "text": "Logical holism\n\nLogical holism is the belief that the world operates in such a way that no part can be known without the whole being known first. Bertrand Russell concluded that \"Hegel's dialectical logical holism should be dismissed in favour of the new logic of propositional analysis.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "3303412", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3303412", "title": "Mereological nihilism", "text": "Mereological nihilism\n\nMereological nihilism (also called compositional nihilism, or rarely simply nihilism) is the mereological position that objects with proper parts do not exist. Only mereological simples, those basic building blocks without proper parts, exist. Or, more succinctly, \"nothing is a proper part of anything\". Mereological simples can be both spatial and temporal. Mereological nihilism also asserts that objects existing in time do not have any temporal parts.\n\nThe concepts of parts and wholes are used to describe common objects. For example, a ball is made up of two halves, so the ball is a whole that is made up of two parts. Every single object we experience in the world outside of us and around us is a whole that has parts, and we never experience an object that does not have parts. For example, a tail is a part of a lion, a cloud is a part of a greater weather system or, in visual terms, the sky, and a nucleobase is a part of a DNA strand. The only things we know of that do not have parts are the smallest items known to exist, such as leptons and quarks. These fundamental particles cannot be 'seen' and are not directly experienced. They may, however, be experienced indirectly through emergent properties. Thus all objects we directly experience have parts. \n\nA number of philosophers have argued that objects that have parts do not exist. The basis of their argument consists in claiming that our senses give us only foggy information about reality and thus they cannot be trusted. For example, we fail to see the smallest building blocks that make up anything. These smallest building blocks are individual and separate items that do not ever unify or come together into being non-individual. Thus, they never compose anything. According to the concept of mereological nihilism, if the building blocks of reality never compose any wholes, then no composite objects exist.\n\nThis seems to devolve into an error theory. If there are no composite objects, how can we make sense of our ordinary understanding of reality which accepts the existence of composite objects? Are we all deceived? Ted Sider (2013) has argued that we should think of composition as arrangement. According to Sider, when we say \"there is a table\", we mean there are mereological simples arranged table-wise.\n\nMereological nihilism entails the denial of what is called classical mereology, which is succinctly defined by philosopher Achille Varzi: \n\nMereology (from the Greek μερος, 'part') is the theory of parthood relations: of the relations of part to whole and the relations of part to part within a whole. Its roots can be traced back to the early days of philosophy, beginning with the Presocratic atomists and continuing throughout the writings of Plato (especially the \"Parmenides\" and the \"Theaetetus\"), Aristotle (especially the \"Metaphysics\", but also the \"Physics\", the \"Topics\", and \"De partibus animalium\"), and Boethius (especially \"In Ciceronis Topica\").\n\nAs can be seen from Varzi's passage, classical mereology depends on the idea that there are metaphysical relations that connect part(s) to whole. Mereological nihilists maintain that such relations between part and whole do not exist, since \"wholes\" themselves only exist at the subatomic level.\n\nNihilists typically claim that our senses give us the (false) impression that there are composite material objects, and then attempt to explain why nonetheless our thought and talk about such objects is 'close enough' to the truth to be innocuous and reasonable in most conversational contexts. Sider's linguistic revision that reformulates the existence of composite objects as merely the existence of arrangements of mereological simples is an example of this. Tallant (2013) has argued against this maneuver. Tallant has argued that mereological nihilism is committed to answering the following question: when is it that a group of mereological simples is arranged in a particular way? What relations must maintain among a group of mereological simples such that they are arranged table-wise? It seems the nihilist can determine when a group of objects compose another object: for them, never. But the nihilist, if he is committed to Sider's view, is committed to answering how mereological simples can be arranged in particular ways. No compelling answer has been provided in the literature. Mereological nihilism seems to pose the same amount of questions as it purports to answer. In fact, they are the very same questions re-formed in terms of arrangement.\n\nThe obvious objection that can be raised against nihilism is that it seems to posit far fewer objects than we typically think exist. The nihilist's ontology has been criticized for being too sparse as it only includes mereological simples and denies the existence of composite objects that we intuitively take to exist, like tables, planets, and animals. Another challenge that nihilists face arises when composition is examined in the context of contemporary physics. According to findings in quantum physics, there are multiple kinds of decomposition in different physical contexts. For example, there is no single decomposition of light; light can be said to be either composed of particles or waves depending on the context. This empirical perspective poses a problem for nihilism because it does not look like material objects neatly decompose in the way nihilists imagine they do. In addition, some philosophers have speculated that there may not be a \"bottom level\" of reality. Atoms used to be understood as the most fundamental material objects, but were later discovered to be composed of subatomic particles and quarks. Perhaps what we take to be the most fundamental entities of current physics can actually be decomposed, and their parts can be further decomposed, on down the line. If matter is infinitely decomposable in this respect, then there are no mereological simples. This is a problem for nihilism because it then follows from their view that nothing exists, since they assert that only mereological simples exist.\n\nPhilosophers in favor of something close to pure mereological nihilism are Peter Unger, Cian Dorr, and Ross Cameron. There are a few philosophers who argue for what could be considered a partial nihilism, or what has been called quasi-nihilism, which is the position that only objects of a certain kind have parts. One such position is organicism: the view that living beings exist, but there are no other objects with parts, and all other objects that we believe to be composite—chairs, planets, etc.—therefore do not exist. Rather, other than living beings, which are composites (objects that have parts), there are only true atoms, or basic building blocks (which they call simples). The organicists include Trenton Merricks and Peter van Inwagen.\n\nPeter Van Inwagen maintains that all material objects are mereological simples with the exception of biological life such that the only composite objects are living things. Van Inwagen's view can be formulated like this: \"Necessarily, for any non-overlapping xs, there is an object composed of the xs iff either (i) the activities of the xs constitute a life or (ii) there is only one of the xs.\"In other words, Van Inwagen contends that mereological atoms form a composite object when they engage in a sort special, complex activity which amounts to a life. \n\nOne reason why Van Inwagen's solution to the Special Composition Question is so attractive is that it allows us to account a conscious subject as a composite object. Nihilists have to maintain that the subject of a single consciousness is somehow the product of many discrete mereological atoms. Van Inwagen's argument against nihilism can be characterized as such:\n\n\nIn addition to allowing for the existence of trees, cats, and human beings, Van Inwagen's view is attractive because it inherits nihilism's elegant solutions to traditional problems in mereology like the Ship of Theseus and the problem of the many. \n\nOne objection that can be offered against Van Inwagen's view is the vagueness of the category of life and the ambiguity of when something gets \"caught up\" in a life. For example, if a cat takes a breath and inhales a carbon atom, it is unclear at what point that atom becomes officially incorporated into the cat's body.\n\nEven though there are no tables or chairs, van Inwagen thinks that it is still permissible to assert sentences such as 'there are tables'. This is because such a sentence can be paraphrased as 'there are simples arranged tablewise'; it is appropriate to assert it when there are simples arranged a certain way. It is a common mistake to hold that van Inwagen's view is that tables are identical to simples arranged tablewise. This is not his view: van Inwagen would reject the claim that tables are identical to simples arranged tablewise because he rejects the claim that composition is identity. Nonetheless, he maintains that an ordinary speaker who asserts, for instance, \"There are four chairs in that room\" will speak truly if there are, indeed, simples in the room arranged in the appropriate way (so as to make up, in the ordinary view, four chairs). He claims that the statement and its paraphrase \"describe the same fact\". Van Inwagen suggests an analogy with the motion of the sun: an ordinary speaker who asserts that \"the sun has moved behind the elms\" will still speak truly, even though we accept the Copernican claim that this is not, strictly speaking, literally true. (For details, see his book \"Material Beings\".)\n\n\n"}
{"id": "33462899", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33462899", "title": "Minority stress", "text": "Minority stress\n\nMinority stress describes chronically high levels of stress faced by members of stigmatized minority groups. It may be caused by a number of factors, including poor social support and low socioeconomic status, but the most well understood causes of minority stress are interpersonal prejudice and discrimination. Indeed, numerous scientific studies have shown that minority individuals experience a high degree of prejudice, which causes stress responses (e.g., high blood pressure, anxiety) that accrue over time, eventually leading to poor mental and physical health. Minority stress theory summarizes these scientific studies to explain how difficult social situations lead to chronic stress and poor health among minority individuals. It is an important concept for psychologists and public health officials who seek to understand and reduce minority health disparities.\n\nOver the past three decades, social scientists have found that minority individuals suffer from mental and physical health disparities compared to their peers in majority groups. This research has focused primarily on racial and sexual minorities. For example, African Americans have been found to suffer elevated rates of hypertension compared to Whites. Lesbian, gay, and bisexual (LGB) individuals face higher rates of suicide, substance abuse, and cancer relative to heterosexuals. These health disparities impact day-to-day well-being as well as overall life expectancy, leading social scientists to ask: How can we reduce minority health disparities? In order to answer this question, it was first important to explore the underlying causes of the disparities.\n\nOne causal explanation for minority health disparities is the social selection hypothesis, which holds that there is something inherent to being in a minority group (e.g., genetics) that makes individuals susceptible to health problems. In general, this view has not been supported by empirical research. If minority individuals were genetically predisposed to poor health outcomes, the vast majority of them should face health disparities. However, large-scale empirical studies have shown that most of LGB individuals do not suffer psychopathology and that many African Americans do not have heart disease. Instead, research suggests that environmental factors explain minority health disparities better than do genetic factors. While the social selection hypothesis is still debated, it is clear that genetic and dispositional factors do not fully explain the health disparities observed in minority groups.\n\nA second hypothesis regarding the causes of minority health disparities suggests that minority group members face difficult social situations that lead to poor health. This hypothesis has received broad empirical support. Indeed, social psychologists have long recognized that minority individuals have different social experiences compared to majority individuals, including prejudice and discrimination, unequal socioeconomic status, and limited access to health care. According to the social causation hypothesis, such difficult social experiences explain health differences between minority and majority individuals.\n\nMinority stress theory extends the social causation hypothesis by suggesting that social situations do not lead directly to poor health for minority individuals, but that difficult social situations cause stress for minority individuals, which accrues over time, resulting in long-term health deficits. Furthermore, minority stress theory distinguishes between distal and proximal stress processes. Distal stress processes are external to the minority individual, including experiences with rejection, prejudice, and discrimination. Proximal stress processes are internal, and are often the byproduct of distal stressors; they include concealment of one’s minority identity, vigilance and anxiety about prejudice, and negative feelings about one’s own minority group. Together, distal and proximal stressors accrue over time, leading to chronically high levels of stress that cause poor health outcomes. Thus, minority stress theory has three primary tenets: \n\n\nThese three tenets of the minority stress theory have been tested in over 134 empirical studies, most of which examined racial and sexual minority populations. Generally, the studies have confirmed that difficult social situations are associated with stress among minority individuals, and that minority stress helps to explain health disparities.\n\nThe first tenet of minority stress theory holds that being in a minority group is associated with increased exposure to distal stressors, such as prejudice and discrimination. Indeed, despite significant improvement over the past several decades, numerous studies have confirmed that minority individuals continue to face high rates of distal stressors. For example, in large-scale national surveys, LGB individuals report high rates of prejudice and discrimination across the lifespan. One survey found that one-fourth of LGB adults have experienced victimization related to their sexual orientation, and another found that as many as 90% of LGBT youth report hearing prejudiced remarks at school. Similarly, up to 60% of African Americans report experiencing distal stressors throughout their lives, ranging from social rejection at school to housing discrimination and employment discrimination. In one study, 37 African American respondents recalled over 100 discrete experiences with racist prejudice in a two-year period. In another study, 98% of Black participants reported experiencing at least one incidence of prejudice in the past year. \n\nRates of exposure to distal stressors are much higher among racial and sexual minorities than among majority individuals. For example, LGB adults are twice as likely to recall experiencing prejudice throughout their lives compared to heterosexuals, and LGBT youth report significantly higher rates of prejudice and discrimination compared to their heterosexual peers. In one carefully controlled study, researchers compared rates of victimization among LGBT youth and their heterosexual siblings, and they found significantly higher rates of abuse among the LGB individuals. Comparing rates of perceived discrimination among African American and White individuals, researchers have found large differences in reports of discrimination: 30.9% of Whites reported experiencing \"major discrimination\" throughout their lives compared to 48.9% of African Americans. Similarly, 3.4% of Whites reported experiencing discrimination \"often\" in their lives, compared to 24.8% of African Americans. Thus, collectively, research suggests that minority individuals face frequent exposure to distal stressors compared to their majority group counterparts.\n\nProximal stressors are internal processes that are presumed to occur following exposure to distal stressors. Examples of proximal stressors include fear of rejection, rumination (psychology) on previous experiences with prejudice, and distaste for one’s own minority group following a prejudice event. Most research on this topic focuses on either sexual minorities or African Americans, and it is unclear whether the proximal stress processes are conceptually similar between these two groups. Thus, it is necessary to review proximal stress processes separately for sexual minority and African American populations.\n\nA growing body of research indicates that exposure to distal stressors leads to proximal stressors in sexual minority populations. While sexual minority stress and gender minority stress both use Meyer's Minority Stress Model as a framework, and share some characteristics with gender minority stress, some researchers have suggested that sexual minority stress is distinct from the minority stress experienced by transgender, gender non-conforming, and non-binary-gender individuals. For example, LGB youth and adults who have experienced prejudice about their sexual orientation sometimes choose to conceal their sexual identity from others. Concealing such personal information causes significant psychological distress, including intrusive thoughts about the secret, shame and guilt, anxiety, and isolation from other members of the minority group. Internalized homophobia is another proximal stressor prevalent among LGBT individuals. It refers to the internalization of negative social views about homosexuality, which leads to self-hatred and poor self-regard. As predicted by minority stress theory, internalized homophobia is associated with exposure to distal stressors, insofar as it only occurs because LGB individuals are exposed to negative societal attitudes toward same-sex attraction. Rejection sensitivity represents a third proximal stress among sexual minority individuals. Rejection sensitivity refers to chronic, anxious expectations of rejection based on one's stigmatized status. Among sexual minority individuals, rejection sensitivity emerges from experiences of rejection from parents and is associated with internalized homophobia, unassertiveness, depression, and anxiety. Thus, previous experiences with prejudice are associated with proximal stress among LGB individuals, including concealment of their sexual identity, internalized homophobia, and rejection sensitivity.\n\nAmong African Americans, proximal stressors were described by early social psychological theorists. For example, Erving Goffman observed that racial minorities approach social interactions with a high degree of anxiety, because they have been discriminated against in the past. Similarly, Gordon Allport asserted that African American individuals display vigilance after exposure to prejudice, actively scanning the social environment for potential threats. Such vigilance is presumed to be taxing, sapping emotional and cognitive energy from minority individuals and thus becoming stressful. Proximal stressors also have been demonstrated among African Americans in terms of stereotype threat. Researchers have shown that, when African Americans are reminded of their racial minority status in an academic context, they face a high degree of anxiety, causing their intellectual performance to suffer.\n\nThe proximal stress processes reviewed above are unique to specific minority groups; for example, internalized homophobia is a proximal stressor unique to LGBT individuals who experience prejudice about their sexual and or/gender orientation/expression, and vigilance against racism is unique to racial minorities who fear future experiences with race-based discrimination. It is also possible that more general psychological processes act as proximal stressors for minority individuals. For example, exposure to prejudice may lead to rumination, which is a common psychological phenomenon characterized by a maladaptive, repetitive, and obsessive focus on a past event that leads to depressive and anxious symptoms. Several recent studies have shown that distal stressors are associated with such general proximal stress processes among minority individuals. In one longitudinal study, researchers found that gay men who experienced distal stressors related to their sexual orientation had an increased tendency to ruminate, which was associated with increased depressive and anxious symptoms compared to gay men who did not experience distal stressors. In another study, LGBT youth reported higher rates of rumination on days when they experienced distal stressors; rumination in turn was associated with psychological distress. Because minority individuals have been shown to face high rates of distal stressors compared to majority individuals, and because experiencing distal stressors is associated with general psychological stress processes such as rumination and anxiety, these findings highlight the more general ways in which prejudice and discrimination may affect internal stress processes among minority individuals.\n\nThe bulk of minority stress research has examined the third tenet of the theory – namely, that distal and proximal stressors are associated with adverse health outcomes for minority individuals. These outcomes include both mental and physical health disparities, which differ across minority groups. Again, studies have yet to systematically determine whether minority stress is associated with different health outcomes among different minority groups. Thus, it is necessary to review associations between minority stress and health separately for LGB, African American, and immigrant groups, as social scientists do not know whether stress causes similar outcomes across groups. The immigrant paradox outlines health outcomes among immigrant populations.\n\nLGBT individuals face higher rates of psychopathology compared to their non-LGBT peers. For example, population-based studies have shown that LGBT people are at risk for increased rates of substance abuse, suicide attempts, depression, and anxiety across the lifespan. In fact, one meta analysis found that LGB individuals are 2.5 times more likely to have a lifetime history of mental disorder compared to heterosexuals, and 2 times more likely to have a current mental disorder. In terms of physical health, LGB individuals are at heightened risks for some types of cancer and immune dysfunction. \n\nSeveral studies have linked these negative health outcomes to distal stressors. For example, in a national survey, LGBT adults displayed higher rates of psychiatric morbidity and also reported significantly higher rates of prejudice and discrimination compared to their heterosexual peers; prejudice and discrimination fully explained the link between sexual orientation and psychiatric symptoms for LGBT respondents. In another study, level of peer victimization partially explained associations between sexual orientation and suicide risk. Perceived level of discrimination has also been shown to predict anxiety and substance abuse disorders among LGB individuals. \n\nProximal stressors have also been linked to negative health outcomes for sexual minorities. For example, internalized homophobia has been linked to self-harm and eating disorders as well as sexual risk-taking behavior. Internalized homophobia has also been linked to general psychological distress, which predicts long-term mental health outcomes. Thus, both distal and proximal social stressors are associated with negative mental health outcomes among sexual minorities. Recent evidence suggests similar links between proximal stressors and physical health disparities in LGB communities, including cardiovascular disease, asthma, diabetes, and some cancers.\n\nAfrican Americans have been shown to suffer notable health disparities compared to their White peers. For example, they suffer higher rates of morbidity due to stroke, perinatal disease, and diabetes mellitus compared to Whites. They also suffer high rates of colorectal, pancreatic, and stomach cancers. In terms of mental health, African Americans report lower rates of overall life satisfaction, as well as heightened depressive symptoms and substance abuse compared to Whites.\n\nDistal stressors have been linked to these health disparities among African Americans. For example, one study showed that perceived prejudice was associated with irregular blood pressure throughout the day, which has been linked to long-term cardiovascular disease. Exposure to racial prejudice has also been linked to negative health behaviors, such as smoking and substance abuse, which are associated with poor cardiovascular health. Indeed, a recent meta analysis of 36 empirical studies revealed consistent effects of prejudice and discrimination on physical health (e.g., cardiovascular disease, hypertension, diabetes) among racial minorities. That same review revealed that racial prejudice and discrimination were related to depressive symptoms and psychiatric distress in 110 empirical studies. Individual studies have shown that reports of discrimination are associated with lower reports of happiness and life satisfaction, higher psychiatric distress, and depressive symptoms. Thus, exposure to distal stressors has been linked to poor mental and physical health outcomes for African Americans. Poverty level affects mental health status. African Americans living below the poverty level, as compared to those over twice the poverty level, are 3 times more likely to report psychological distress. African Americans are 20% more likely to report having serious psychological distress than Non-Hispanic Whites.\n\nOther studies have linked proximal stressors and health outcomes for African Americans. For example, researchers have found that African Americans have a sense of inferiority and low self-worth due to experiences with prejudice, which are associated with emotional distress. Similarly, internalized racism has been linked to psychiatric symptoms, including high rates of alcohol consumption, low self-esteem, and depression. These findings corroborate the minority stress theory by demonstrating that proximal stressors are associated with health disparities among racial minorities. Non-Hispanic Whites are more than twice as likely to receive antidepressant prescription treatments as are Non-Hispanic Blacks. The death rate from suicide for African American men was almost four times that for African American women, in 2009. However, the suicide rate for African Americans is 60% lower than that of the Non-Hispanic White population. A report from the U.S. Surgeon General found that from 1980 - 1995, the suicide rate among African Americans ages 10 to 14 increased 233%, as compared to 120% of Non-Hispanic Whites.\n\nDespite multiple studies indicating that minority individuals face a high degree of stress related to their minority identity, and that minority stress is associated with poor health outcomes, there are several methodological limitations and ongoing debates on this topic.\n\nFirst, the minority stress concept has been criticized as focusing too narrowly on the negative experiences of minority individuals and ignoring the unique coping strategies and social support structures available to them. While theoretical writings about minority stress do note the importance of coping mechanisms for minority individuals, individual studies that use minority stress theory tend to focus on negative health outcomes rather than on coping mechanisms. In the future, it will be important for researchers to consider both positive and negative aspects of minority group membership, examining whether and why one of those aspects outweighs the other in determining minority health outcomes.\n\nAlso, few studies have been able to test minority stress theory in full. Most studies have examined one of the three links described above, demonstrating that minority individuals face heightened rates of prejudice, that minority individuals face health disparities, or that prejudice is related to health disparities. Together, findings from these three areas corroborate minority stress theory, but a stronger test would examine all three parts in the same study. While there have been a few such studies, further replication is necessary to support the presumed pathways underlying minority stress.\n\nMost studies of minority stress are correlational. While these studies have the advantage of using large, national datasets to establish links between minority status, stressors, and health, they cannot demonstrate causality. That is, most of the existing research cannot prove that prejudice \"causes\" stress, which \"causes\" poor health outcomes among minority individuals, because correlation does not imply causation. One way to remedy this limitation is to employ experimental and longitudinal research designs to test the impact of social stressors on health. Indeed, several recent studies have begun to use these more stringent tests of minority stress. Additional studies are needed to confidently state that prejudice causes poor health for minority individuals.\n\nFinally, it is unclear whether different minority groups face different types of minority stress and different health outcomes following prejudice. Minority stress theory was originally developed to explain associations between social situations, stress, and health for LGB individuals. Still, researchers have used the same general theory to examine stress processes among African Americans, and findings have generally converged with those from LGB populations. Thus, it is possible that minority stress applies broadly to members of diverse minority groups. However, studies have yet to directly compare experiences, stress responses, and health outcomes among individuals from diverse minority groups. Systematic comparisons are necessary to clarify whether minority stress applies to all minority individuals broadly, or whether different models are required for different groups.\n\nMinority stress research has demonstrated that several specific processes are associated with minority health disparities. For example, existing studies highlight the differences between distal and proximal stressors, drawing attention both to socio-cultural factors (e.g., high rates of prejudice against minority individuals) and internal processes (e.g., rumination) that affect minority well-being. By separating the socio-cultural and individual aspects of minority stress, the theory suggests that practical interventions must occur at both the individual and social levels.\n\nOn the societal level, minority stress research shows that prejudice and discrimination are common occurrences for minority individuals, and that they have damaging effects for individual well-being. This information has been used by law enforcement, policymakers, and social organizations to target and minimize the occurrence of distal stressors and, thus, to improve minority health on a large scale. For example, evidence that prejudice is associated with minority stress has been used in several amicus curiae briefs to settle important court cases regarding prejudice and discrimination against minority groups. Evidence that prejudice and discrimination are associated with minority stress that harms well-being for LGB individuals has also been invoked in the congressional debate about anti-harassment protection for LGB youth at the federal level. In the future, the minority stress concept can be used to advocate for federal funding for nationwide campaigns and interventions that aim to reduce intergroup prejudice. If successful, these programs may reduce the rate of distal stressors, significantly improving the mental and physical health of minority individuals.\n\nOn the individual level, minority stress research has uncovered differences in how minorities react to prejudice. For example, studies have shown that some individuals ruminate on experiences with prejudice, which is associated with anxiety and depression. Similarly, minority stress research has revealed that internalized stigma (i.e., distaste for one's own minority group) is associated with negative psychological outcomes. From these findings, clinicians have developed some interventions to decrease internalized stigma and improve well-being for minority individuals. When paired with structural interventions, these clinical applications for reducing minority stress may help to improve the pervasive health disparities observed in minority communities.\n\n"}
{"id": "12935391", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12935391", "title": "Mourning sickness", "text": "Mourning sickness\n\nMourning sickness is a collective emotional condition of \"recreational grieving\" by individuals in the wake of celebrity deaths and other public traumas. Such traumas may be linked to hyper-attentive, intrusive, and voyeuristic media coverage, which has been dubbed grief porn.\n\nThe history of mourning sickness in Great Britain can be traced to the public reaction to the Dunblane massacre in March 1996 when a lone assailant killed 16 schoolchildren and their teacher at the Dunblane Primary School in Scotland, injuring 14 others. The tragedy prompted a public reaction that brought a flood of flowers and sympathy cards from across Britain and even overseas from people unconnected to the victims of the tragedy or even the area where it happened.\n\nA worldwide exhibit of mourning sickness, centred on Britain once again, following the death of Diana, Princess of Wales in 1997 when the Princess was killed in a car crash in Paris. Almost immediately following word of her death, makeshift memorials to Diana, who had been a hugely popular figure worldwide since her marriage to Prince Charles in 1981, began to pop up, most notably at her residence at Kensington Palace. The memorials became a gathering place for public weeping and for people to bring flowers. Ian Jack, writing in \"The Guardian\", argued that this recreational grieving changed a simple observer of a news story into an active participant, changing people \"from audience to actor\".\n\nSimilar displays of public grief occurred following the death in April 1998 of Linda McCartney (wife of former Beatle Paul McCartney), the murder of BBC journalist Jill Dando in April 1999, the murder of seven-year-old Surrey girl Sarah Payne in West Sussex in July 2000, and the murder of two 10-year-old girls from Soham, Cambridgeshire, in August 2002.\n\nThe advent of the Internet added a new development in public mourning sickness that was displayed following the murder of American teenager Anna Svidersky in Vancouver, Washington. Svidersky was murdered while working at a McDonald's restaurant by schizophrenic sex offender David Barton Sullivan. News of her death quickly spread worldwide, initially through the website MySpace, where she had a personal page, and then through other similar sites. This created an effect of mass grief and mourning for her around the world mostly from people who had previously known nothing about her.\n\nIn Britain, \"The Guardian\" newspaper compared the widespread expression of grief by strangers to that seen after the death of Princess Diana. The paper cited the 2004 Civitas think-tank, which described such grief as \"mourning sickness\", related to people's own emotional needs, rather than any real rapport with the deceased.\n\nSome critics have described the public displays of mourning as \"phony\" and more for the benefit of the people grieving than for the victims, families or individuals that they are grieving for. The media plays a pivotal role in these displays, focusing attention on the public reaction to these events. \"Times\" journalist Patrick West said in his booklet \"Conspicuous Compassion\" that \"mourning sickness is a religion for the lonely crowd that no longer subscribes to orthodox churches. Its flowers and teddies are its rites, its collective minute's silences its liturgy and mass.\" In 2005, Journalist Rosie Boycott narrated an episode of Five's \"Don't Get Me Started\" about mourning sickness.\n\n\"Grief porn\" is a pejorative, neologistic expression usually used to describe the behavior of the news media in the wake of trauma. It is distinctly different from Schadenfreude in that it describes a forced or artificial commiseration in response to unfortunate events, whereas the latter refers to a joy at the misfortune of others. Commentators like Charlie Brooker have noted that the distinction can be blurred by the 24-hour news cycle and its need to produce news stories.\n\nRobert Yates, assistant editor for The Observer, described some media coverage of deaths as producing \"Gratification derived from a tenuous connection to the misfortunes of others; the gratuitous indulgence of tangential association with tragedy; getting off on really bad news\". Yates was remarking on the phenomenon he first noticed following the death of Princess Diana and the media frenzy that occurred afterwards. He reportedly observed an increase in activity during times of national mourning and international disaster, and commented dryly that it primarily affects people working in media.\n\nCarol Sarler, writing as a guest columnist for \"The Times\", noted that \"this new and peculiar pornography of grief\" is sometimes called a 'tribute', \"the cruder truth is that ersatz grief is now the new pornography; like the worst of hard-core, it is stimulus by proxy, voyeuristically piggy-backing upon that which might otherwise be deemed personal and private, for no better reason than frisson and the quickening of an otherwise jaded pulse.\n\nThe \"Times\" online's Daniel Finkelstein, called such coverage \"a rather tasteless fascination with other people's disasters and a sentimentalism that is out of place\". However, he did not think this explained people's fascination with all deaths; using the example of Madeleine McCann, a four-year-old child who went missing while on holiday with her parents, Finkelstein theorized that \"we don't follow the McCann case because we are grief junkies. Most of us follow it because we fancy ourselves as (Inspector) Morse.\"\n"}
{"id": "50071257", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50071257", "title": "Murder of Angela Wrightson", "text": "Murder of Angela Wrightson\n\nAngela Wrightson (1974/75 – 8 December 2014) was a British woman who lived in Hartlepool, England. She was murdered by two teenage girls, who cannot be named for legal reasons, in her home in December 2014.\n\nWrightson lived on Stephen Street in Hartlepool. She was an alcoholic.\n\nThe second trial found that two girls, aged 13 and 14 at the time of the attack, murdered Wrightson in her home in a \"sustained and brutal attack\" on the night of 8 December 2014. She was found dead by her landlord the next morning.\n\nBoth girls were in the care system at the time.\n\nThe first trial was held in July 2015. However, due to widespread commentary on the case on social media networks including Facebook, the judge Henry Globe ordered that the trial be abandoned as the case could be prejudiced. This led to reporting restrictions under the Children and Young Persons Act of 1933.\n\nBetween the first and second trials, media organisations challenged the reporting restrictions in the Court of Appeal.\n\nThe second trial was held from February to April 2016 at Leeds Crown Court. Two teenage girls were convicted of the murder and sentenced to a minimum of 15 years' imprisonment on 7 April.\n\nSentencing, the judge ruled that the anonymity of the two perpetrators should be maintained.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2111211", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2111211", "title": "National day of mourning", "text": "National day of mourning\n\nA national day of mourning is a day marked by mourning and memorial activities observed among the majority of a country's populace. They are designated by the national government. Such days include those marking the death or funeral of a renowned individual or individuals from that country or elsewhere, or the anniversary of such a death or deaths. Flying a flag of that country and/or military flag at half-staff is a common symbol.\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "36476698", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36476698", "title": "Outline of life forms", "text": "Outline of life forms\n\nThe following outline is provided as an overview of and topical guide to life forms:\n\nLife form (also, life-form and lifeform) – entity that is living, such as plants (flora) and animals (fauna). It is estimated that more than 99% of all species that ever existed on Earth, amounting to over five billion species, are extinct.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3547305", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3547305", "title": "Pain compliance", "text": "Pain compliance\n\nPain compliance is the use of painful stimulus to control or direct a person or animal. The stimulus can be manual (brute force, placing pressure on painful areas, or use of painful hyperextension or hyperflexion on joints), use tools such as a whip or electroshock weapon, or use chemicals such as tear gas or pepper spray.\n\nThe purpose of pain compliance is to direct the actions of the subject, and to this end, the pain is lessened or removed when compliance is achieved. This provides incentive to the subject to carry out the action required.\n\nThe most common use in humans is as a law enforcement technique to assist with taking a suspect in to custody, control a suspect in custody or encourage action on behalf of a person who is passively resisting. In disciplined law enforcement, the use of pain compliance forms part of a use of force continuum which will usually start with verbal warnings, before escalating measures.\n\nThe pain stimulus can be manual, using a pain compliance hold or can be through the use of weapons such as an electroshock weapon (Taser). Pain compliance as part of an escalation of force policy normally presumes a rational adversary, but some altered states such as mental illness, phencyclidine and amphetamine use, or extreme adrenaline may alter the subject's perception of pain or willingness to submit.\n\nLike other forms of non-lethal force, such pain compliance strategies are not perfect and may be abused as a form of torture, with plausible deniability. For this reason the use of pain compliance is often subject to explicit rules of engagement designed to prevent abuse and avoid conflict escalation.\n\nPain compliance is used as a training aid in animals, with physical aids including the use of whips and shock collars.\n\n"}
{"id": "47338150", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47338150", "title": "Paula Ann Gallant", "text": "Paula Ann Gallant\n\nPaula Anne Gallant (December 5, 1969 – December 27, 2005) was a Canadian school teacher who was murdered by asphyxiation due to strangulation On December 27, 2005, Gallant and her husband, Jason MacRae were in their basement arguing about a debt from online gambling. After MacRae walked back down to the basement where Gallant was sitting at the computer, he hit her in the back of her head with a two-by-four wood board. He then proceeded to strangle her to the floor until she stopped moving and then wrapped her head with Saran Wrap to make sure she was dead.\n\nGallant was a grade three teacher at Beechville Lakeside Timberlea School. Gallant was actively involved in her school and community, and art was one of her passions. She was pursuing her Certificate in Visual Arts at NSCAD.\n\nOn December 27, 2005, shortly after 7:00PM her husband had contacted his wife's sister Lana Kenny to see if she knew of her whereabouts. At their house 45 minutes later MacRae contacted the Halifax Regional Police reporting that Gallant had not returned from Costco, since 2:00PM.\n\nFamily and friends searched the community and called friends and neighbors trying to locate Gallant. At 12:30 a.m. on December 28, 2005, Gallant's car was located at the Beachville-Lakeside-Timberlea School where she teaches a Grade 3 art class. The car was locked and her body was found in the trunk of her green 1997 Chevrolet Cavalier. She was wrapped in a blanket in a fetal position.\n\nGallant's murder was covered locally and nationally throughout Canada. The family and MacRae were interviewed and profiled by \"The National\" and \"The Fifth Estate\", in 2006. Her death was one of Nova Scotia's most high-profile unsolved homicides.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "253786", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=253786", "title": "Price point", "text": "Price point\n\nPrice points are prices at which demand for a given product is supposed to stay relatively high.\n\nIntroductory microeconomics depicts a demand curve as downward-sloping to the right and either linear or gently convex to the origin. The downwards slope generally holds, but the model of the curve is only piecewise true, as price surveys indicate that demand for a product is not a linear function of its price and not even a smooth function. Demand curves resemble a series of waves rather than a straight line. \n\nThe diagram shows price points at the points labeled A, B, and C. When a vendor increases a price beyond a price point (say to a price slightly above \"price point B\"), sales volume decreases by an amount more than proportional to the price increase. This decrease in quantity-demanded more than offsets the additional revenue from the increased unit-price. As a result, total revenue (price multiplied by quantity-demanded) decreases when a firm raises its price beyond a price point. Technically, the price elasticity of demand is low (inelastic) at a price lower than the price point (steep section of the demand curve), and high (elastic) at a price higher than a price point (gently sloping part of the demand curve). Firms commonly set prices at existing price-points as a marketing strategy.\n\nThere are three main reasons for price points to appear:\n\n\nIn relation to customary price points, oligopolies can also generate price points. Such price points do not necessarily result from collusion, but as an emergent property of oligopolies: when all firms sell at the same price, any firm which attempts to raise its selling price will experience a decrease in sales and revenues (preventing firms from raising prices unilaterally); on the other hand, any firm in an oligopoly which lowers its prices will mostly likely be matched by competitors, resulting in small increases in sales but decreases in revenues (for all the firms in that market). This effect can potentially produce a kinked demand-curve where the kink lies at the point of the current price-level in the market.\nThese results depend on the elasticity of the demand curve and on the properties of each market.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "24811831", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24811831", "title": "Robert F. Kennedy assassination conspiracy theories", "text": "Robert F. Kennedy assassination conspiracy theories\n\nThe conspiracy theories relating to the assassination of Robert F. Kennedy, a United States Senator and brother of assassinated President John F. Kennedy, relate to non-standard accounts of the assassination that took place shortly after midnight on June 5, 1968, in Los Angeles, California. Robert F. Kennedy was assassinated during celebrations following his successful campaign in the Californian primary elections while seeking the Democratic nomination for U.S. President.\n\nThe perpetrator was a 24-year-old Palestinian immigrant named Sirhan Sirhan, who remains incarcerated for the crime. However, as with his brother's death, Robert Kennedy's assassination and the circumstances surrounding it have spawned various conspiracy theories, particularly regarding the existence of a second gunman. Such theories have also centered on a woman wearing a polka-dot dress claiming responsibility for the crime, and the involvement of the Central Intelligence Agency. Many of these theories were examined during an investigation ordered by the United States Senate and were judged to be erroneous by the Federal Bureau of Investigation, which investigated on the Senate's behalf.\n\nThe location of Kennedy's wounds suggested that his assailant had stood behind him, but witnesses said that Sirhan stood facing west, about a yard away from Kennedy, as he moved through the pantry facing east. This has led to the suggestion that a second gunman actually fired the fatal shot, a possibility supported by Chief Medical Examiner-Coroner for the County of Los Angeles Thomas Noguchi, who stated that the fatal shot was behind Kennedy's right ear and had been fired at a distance of approximately one inch. Other witnesses said that as Sirhan approached, Kennedy was turning to his left shaking hands, facing north and so exposing his right side. As recently as 2008, eyewitness John Pilger asserted that there must have been a second gunman. On August 14th, 1975, the Los Angeles County Board of Supervisors appointed Thomas F. Kranz as Special Counsel to the Los Angeles County District Attorney's Office to investigate the assassination. The conclusion of the experts was that there was little or no evidence to support this theory.\n\nSirhan's .22-caliber Iver-Johnson Cadet revolver contained eight rounds, which were all fired. Since the assassination took place in a tight, confined pantry, all bullets became embedded in the walls, the ceiling and the victims. Three bullets hit Kennedy; two stayed in his body and another tore through his arm. The five bullets that hit the other five victims stayed in their bodies, leaving two bullets that would have been lodged in the room itself. The LAPD found three bullet holes in the foam ceiling, and concluded that a bullet must have ricocheted through the ceiling before turning back and hitting a person. This explanation had a major flaw: there were two bullet holes in the door frame to the pantry. The LAPD does not acknowledge this, but the press took photos of the bullet holes showing police personnel pointing at them and measuring them. Martin Patrusky, a hotel waiter, remembered being told by officers that they had removed two bullets from the door frame. But the LAPD removed the door frame and the ceiling tiles and later incinerated them.\n\nIn 2007, analysis of an audio recording of the shooting made that night by freelance reporter Stanislaw Pruszynski appeared to indicate, according to forensic expert Philip van Praag, that at least 13 shots were fired. Van Praag also said the recording revealed at least two instances in which the time between shots was shorter than humanly possible. According to Van Praag, the firing of more than eight shots was independently corroborated by forensic audio specialists Wes Dooley and Paul Pegas of Audio Engineering Associates, forensic audio and ballistics expert Eddy B. Brixen, and audio specialist Phil Spencer Whitehead of the Georgia Institute of Technology. Some other acoustic experts, through their own independent analyses, have stated that no more than eight shots are recorded on the audio tape.\n\nOn November 26, 2011, Sirhan's defense attorneys William F. Pepper and Laurie Dusek filed a 62-page brief in federal court asserting that a bullet used as evidence to convict Sirhan was switched with another bullet at the crime scene. The brief claims that this was done because the bullet taken from Kennedy's neck did not match Sirhan's gun. Pepper and Dusek claim that the new evidence is sufficient to find Sirhan not guilty under the law.\n\nThane Eugene Cesar has frequently been cited as the most likely candidate for a second gunman. Cesar had been employed by Ace Guard Service to protect Kennedy at the Ambassador Hotel. This was not his full-time job; during the day he worked as a maintenance plumber at the Lockheed Aircraft plant in Burbank, a job that required security clearance from the Department of Defense. He worked there from 1966 until losing his job in 1971. Author Dan Moldea wrote that in 1973 Cesar began working at Hughes, a job he held for seven years and which Cesar said required the second-highest clearance level at the plant.\n\nWhen interviewed, Cesar stated that he did draw a gun at the scene of the shooting, but insisted the weapon was a Rohm .38, not a .22, the caliber of the bullets found in Kennedy. He also said he got knocked down after the first shot and was unable to fire his gun. The LAPD, which interviewed Cesar shortly after the shooting, did not regard him as a suspect and did not ask to see his gun.\nCesar stated that he did own a .22-caliber Harrington & Richardson pistol, and he showed it to LAPD sergeant P. E. O'Steen on June 24, 1968. But when the LAPD interviewed Cesar three years later, he claimed that he had sold the gun before the assassination to a man named Jim Yoder. William W. Turner tracked down Yoder in October 1972. Yoder still had the receipt for the H & R pistol, which was dated September 6, 1968, and bore Cesar's signature, indicating that Cesar had sold the pistol three months after Kennedy's assassination, contradicting his 1971 claim that he had sold the weapon months before it. Moldea wrote that Cesar submitted years later to a polygraph examination performed by Edward Gelb, former president and executive director of the American Polygraph Association, in which Cesar denied any involvement in the assassination, and passed with flying colors.\n\nAnother conspiracy theory relates to a Manchurian candidate hypothesis, that Sirhan was psychologically programmed by persons unknown to commit the murder, that he was not aware of his actions at the time and that his mind was \"wiped\" in the aftermath by the conspirators so that he would have no memory of the event or of the people who \"programmed\" him. This theory was supported by psychologist and hypnosis expert Dr. Eduard Simson-Kallas after 35 hours of work with Sirhan in San Quentin prison in 1969. Sirhan claimed then, and has continued to claim, to have no memory of the assassination or its aftermath.\n\nSome of the witnesses stated that they observed a woman in a polka-dot dress in various locations throughout the Ambassador Hotel before and after the assassination. One witness, Kennedy campaign worker Sandra Serrano, reported that around 11:30 p.m. she was sitting outside on a stairway that led to the Embassy Ballroom when a woman and two men, one of whom Serrano later stated was Sirhan, walked past her up the stairs. Serrano said that around 30 minutes later, she heard noises that sounded like the backfire of an automobile, then saw the woman and one of the men running from the scene. She stated that the woman exclaimed, \"We shot him, we shot him!\" According to Serrano, when she asked the woman to whom she referred, the woman said \"Senator Kennedy.\" A visibly frazzled Serrano related her account to NBC's Sander Vanocur soon after the shooting.\n\nAnother witness, Evan Freed, also saw the girl in the polka-dot dress. Another reported seeing a girl in a polka-dot dress with Sirhan at various times during the evening, including in the kitchen area where the assassination took place. Serrano stated that before her encounter with the polka-dot dress girl, she heard a series of shots that sounded like a car backfiring. LAPD criminologist DeWayne Wolfer conducted tests to determine if Serrano could have heard the shots from her location and found that the shots would have caused just a ½-decibel change in sound at Serrano's location, so she could not have heard the shots as she claimed. Additionally, Special Counsel Thomas F. Kranz commented in his report that Serrano admitted to fabricating the story after further interviews with investigating officers and that he was unable to find evidence to corroborate any aspect of the original account. Serrano maintained that she was worn down during relentless questioning by LAPD sergeant Hank Hernandez and coerced into a false retraction.\n\nIn 1974, retired LAPD officer Paul Sharaga told a newsman with KMPC in Los Angeles that as he was responding to the shooting in the hotel, an elderly couple reported to him that they saw a couple in their early 20s, one of whom was a woman in a polka-dot dress. The couple were smiling and shouting \"We shot him... we killed Kennedy... we shot him... we killed him\". Sharaga also stated that he filed official reports of the incident, but that they disappeared and were never investigated.\n\nIn November 2006, BBC Television's \"Newsnight\" aired a 12-minute screening of Shane O'Sullivan's documentary \"RFK Must Die\". O'Sullivan stated that while researching a screenplay based on the Manchurian candidate theory, he \"uncovered new video and photographic evidence suggesting that three senior CIA operatives were behind the killing of the Senator\". He claimed that three men seen in video and photographs at the Ambassador Hotel immediately before and after the assassination were positively identified as CIA operatives David Sánchez Morales, Gordon Campbell and George Joannides.\n\nSeveral people who had known Morales, including family members, were adamant that he was not the man whom O'Sullivan claimed was Morales. After O'Sullivan published his book, assassination researchers Jefferson Morley and David Talbot discovered that Campbell had died of a heart attack in 1962, six years before the assassination. In response, O'Sullivan stated that the man on the video may have used Campbell's name as an alias. He then took his identifications to the Los Angeles Police Department, whose files showed the men he identified as Campbell and Joannides to be Michael Roman and Frank Owens, two Bulova sales managers attending the company's convention at the Ambassador. O'Sullivan stood by his allegations, stating that the Bulova watch company was a \"well-known CIA cover\".\n\n"}
{"id": "1737582", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1737582", "title": "School violence", "text": "School violence\n\nSchool violence encompasses physical violence, including student-on-student fighting and corporal punishment; psychological violence, including verbal abuse; sexual violence, including rape and sexual harassment; many forms of bullying, including cyberbullying; and carrying weapons in school. It is widely held to have become a serious problem in recent decades in many countries, especially where weapons such as guns or knives are involved. It includes violence between school students as well as physical attacks by students on school staff.\n\nA distinction is made between internalizing and externalizing behavior. Internalizing behaviors reflect withdrawal, inhibition, anxiety, and/or depression. Internalizing behavior has been found in some cases of youth violence although in some youth, depression is associated with substance abuse. Because they rarely act out, students with internalizing problems are often overlooked by school personnel. Externalizing behaviors refer to delinquent activities, aggression, and hyperactivity. Unlike internalizing behaviors, externalizing behaviors include, or are directly linked to, violent episodes. Violent behaviors such as punching and kicking are often learned from observing others. Just as externalizing behaviors are observed outside of school, such behaviors also observed in schools.\n\nA number of other individual factors are associated with higher levels of aggressiveness. Compared to children whose antisocial conduct begins in adolescence, early starters have a worse prognosis in terms of future aggression and other antisocial activities. Lower IQ is related to higher levels of aggression. Other findings indicate that in boys early problematic motor skills, attentional difficulties, and reading problems predict later persistent antisocial conduct.\n\nThe home environment is thought to contribute to school violence. The Constitutional Rights Foundation suggests long-term exposure to gun violence, parental alcoholism, domestic violence, physical abuse of the child, and child sexual abuse teaches children that criminal and violent activities are acceptable. Harsh parental discipline is associated with higher levels of aggressiveness in youth. There is some evidence indicating that exposure to television violence and, to a lesser extent, violent video games is related to increased aggressiveness in children, which, in turn, may carry over into school.\n\nStraus adduced evidence for the view that exposure to parental corporal punishment increases the risk of aggressive conduct in children and adolescents. Straus's findings have been contested by Larzelere and Baumrind. A meta-analysis of the vast literature on corporal punishment, however, indicates that corporal punishment is related to poorer outcomes in children and youth. The methodologically soundest studies indicate \"positive, moderately sized associations between parental corporal punishment and children’s aggression.\" Gershoff found that the trajectory of mean effect sizes (the size of the effect of corporal punishment on children's problem behavior) was curvilinear with the largest mean effect size in middle school (\"M\" = 0.55; on average the mean of corporal punishment group was more than half a standard deviation higher than the mean of the non-punishment group) and slightly smaller effect sizes in grade school (\"M\" = 0.43) and high school (\"M\" = 0.45).\n\nGerald Patterson's social interactional model, which involves the mother's application and the child's counterapplication of \"coercive\" behaviors, also explains the development of aggressive conduct in the child. In this context, coercive behaviors include behaviors that are ordinarily punishing (e.g., whining, yelling, hitting, etc.). Abusive home environments can inhibit the growth of social cognitive skills needed, for example, to understand the intentions of others. Short-term longitudinal evidence is consistent with the view that a lack of social cognitive skills mediates the link between harsh parental discipline and aggressive conduct in kindergarten. Longer-term, follow-up research with the same children suggests that partial mediating effects last until third and fourth grade. Hirschi's (1969) control theory advances the view that children with weak affective ties to parents and school are at increased risk of engaging in delinquent and violent behavior in and out of school. Hirschi's cross-sectional data from northern California high-school students are largely consistent with this view. Findings from case-control and longitudinal studies are also consistent with this view.\n\nNeighbourhoods and communities provide the context for school violence. Communities with high rates of crime and drug use teach youth the violent behaviors that are carried into schools. Children in violent neighborhoods tend to perceive that their communities are risky, and that these feelings of vulnerability carry over to the school environment. Dilapidated housing in the neighbourhood of the school has been found to be associated with school violence. Teacher assault was more likely to occur in schools located in high-crime neighbourhoods. Exposure to deviant peers is a risk factor for high levels of aggressivity. Research has shown that poverty and high population densities are associated with higher rates of school violence. Well controlled longitudinal research indicates that children's exposure to community violence during the early elementary school years increases the risk of aggression later in elementary school, as reported by teachers and classmates. Other, well controlled longitudinal research that utilized propensity score matching indicates that exposure to gun violence in early adolescence is related to the initiation of serious physical violence in later adolescence. Neighbourhood gangs are thought to contribute to dangerous school environments. Gangs use the social environment of the school to recruit members and interact with opposing groups, with gang violence carrying over from neighbourhoods into some schools. Alternatively, many children who grow up in violent neighborhoods learn to deliberately find and make \"street-oriented\" friends as an instrumental tactic used to avoid being victimized. Without the threat of violence, children more commonly develop friendships based on homophily, or shared traits.\n\nRecent research has linked the school environment to school violence. Teacher assaults are associated with a higher percentage male faculty, a higher proportion of male students, and a higher proportion of students receiving free or reduced cost lunch (an indicator of poverty). In general, a large male population, higher grade levels, a history of high levels of disciplinary problems in the school, high student to teacher ratios, and an urban location are related to violence in schools. In students, academic performance is inversely related to antisocial conduct. The research by Hirschi and others, cited above in the section on the home environment, is also consistent with the view that lack of attachment to school is associated with increased risk of antisocial conduct.\n\nThe goal of prevention and intervention strategies is to stop school violence from occurring. According to the CDC, there are at least four levels at which violence-prevention programs can act: at the level of society in general, the school community, the family, and the individual.\n\n\n\nResearch on violence affecting children in schools is challenging for a variety of reasons.\n\nWhen trying to measure the scope of violence in schools and to find out about the types of violence experienced by students, some key issues include: from what categories of the school community to collect the data; what data should be collected from each categories; and using which methods. For example, should there be studies or surveys where researchers ask students directly about violence in school, through self-reports about the violence they experienced as targets or perpetrators? Or should they be asked about incidents of violence that they have witnessed as bystanders? Should any of these questions be asked via self-administered questionnaires or questionnaires administered by researchers in schools? Does it make more sense to collect this data outside of schools, for example, through household surveys? Or through online surveys where students have access to the internet? Or is it better to rely on mechanisms for reporting incidents of violence in educational institutions when they are available, either in the schools themselves or outside schools (governmental hotlines, internet-based reporting systems, police and justice sectors, etc.)? What questions can be asked of children, using terminology that is easy to understand, age-appropriate and culturally sensitive?\n\nIn most countries there are strict rules related to research involving children, as they are under the age of consent. Therefore, requesting informed consent from the children in a study involves their parents and guardians. Asking children about violence, and particularly violence they have experienced themselves, can be traumatic. Finally, researching issues related to sexual orientation and gender identity/orientation in education and in relation to children has additional challenges. In some contexts it is not legal to discuss these issues either in schools or even outside of schools. Where it is legal, it may be considered as a very sensitive topic to be discussed with children and young people. Asking children and young people questions related to their sexual orientation and gender identity in the school setting is ethically questionable, as it could embarrass them and expose them to stigma and discrimination, unless questions are asked in strict confidence and anonymity is granted by independent researchers external to schools.\n\n"}
{"id": "234273", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=234273", "title": "Separation of concerns", "text": "Separation of concerns\n\nIn computer science, separation of concerns (SoC) is a design principle for separating a computer program into distinct sections, such that each section addresses a separate concern. A concern is a set of information that affects the code of a computer program. A concern can be as general as the details of the hardware the code is being optimized for, or as specific as the name of a class to instantiate. A program that embodies SoC well is called a modular program. Modularity, and hence separation of concerns, is achieved by encapsulating information inside a section of code that has a well-defined interface. Encapsulation is a means of information hiding. Layered designs in information systems are another embodiment of separation of concerns (e.g., presentation layer, business logic layer, data access layer, persistence layer).\n\nThe value of separation of concerns is simplifying development and maintenance of computer programs. When concerns are well-separated, individual sections can be reused, as well as developed and updated independently. Of special value is the ability to later improve or modify one section of code without having to know the details of other sections, and without having to make corresponding changes to those sections.\n\nThe mechanisms for modular or object-oriented programming that are provided by a programming language are mechanisms that allow developers to provide SoC. For example, object-oriented programming languages such as C#, C++, Delphi, and Java can separate concerns into objects, and architectural design patterns like MVC or MVP can separate content from presentation and the data-processing (model) from content.\nService-oriented design can separate concerns into services. Procedural programming languages such as C and Pascal can separate concerns into procedures or functions. Aspect-oriented programming languages can separate concerns into aspects and objects.\n\nSeparation of concerns is an important design principle in many other areas as well, such as urban planning, architecture and information design. The goal is to more effectively understand, design, and manage complex interdependent systems, so that functions can be reused, optimized independently of other functions, and insulated from the potential failure of other functions.\n\nCommon examples include separating a space into rooms, so that activity in one room does not affect people in other rooms, and keeping the stove on one circuit and the lights on another, so that overload by the stove does not turn the lights off. The example with rooms shows encapsulation, where information inside one room, such as how messy it is, is not available to the other rooms, except through the interface, which is the door. The example with circuits demonstrates that activity inside one module, which is a circuit with consumers of electricity attached, does not affect activity in a different module, so each module is not concerned with what happens in the other.\n\nThe term \"separation of concerns\" was probably coined by Edsger W. Dijkstra in his 1974 paper \"On the role of scientific thought\".\nFifteen years later, it was evident the term Separation of Concerns was becoming an accepted idea. In 1989, Chris Reade wrote a book titled \"Elements of Functional Programming\" that describes separation of concerns:\n\nReade continues to say,\n\nSeparation of concerns is crucial to the design of the Internet. In the Internet Protocol Suite, great efforts have been made to separate concerns into well-defined layers. This allows protocol designers to focus on the concerns in one layer, and ignore the other layers. The Application Layer protocol SMTP, for example, is concerned about all the details of conducting an email session over a reliable transport service (usually TCP), but not in the least concerned about how the transport service makes that service reliable. Similarly, TCP is not concerned about the routing of data packets, which is handled at the Internet Layer.\n\nHyperText Markup Language (HTML), Cascading Style Sheets (CSS), and JavaScript (JS) are complementary languages used in the development of webpages and websites. HTML is mainly used for organization of webpage content, CSS is used for definition of content presentation style, and JS defines how the content interacts and behaves with the user. Historically, this was not the case: prior to the introduction of CSS, HTML performed both duties of defining semantics and style.\n\nSubject-oriented programming allows separate concerns to be addressed as separate software constructs, each on an equal footing with the others. Each concern provides its own class-structure into which the objects in common are organized, and contributes state and methods to the composite result where they cut across one another. Correspondence rules describe how the classes and methods in the various concerns are related to each other at points where they interact, allowing composite behavior for a method to be derived from several concerns. Multi-dimensional Separation of Concerns allows the analysis and composition of concerns to be manipulated as a multi-dimensional \"matrix\" in which each concern provides a dimension in which different points of choice are enumerated, with the cells of the matrix occupied by the appropriate software artifacts.\n\nAspect-oriented programming allows cross-cutting concerns to be addressed as primary concerns. For example, most programs require some form of security and logging. Security and logging are often secondary concerns, whereas the primary concern is often on accomplishing business goals. However, when designing a program, its security must be built into the design from the beginning instead of being treated as a secondary concern. Applying security afterwards often results in an insufficient security model that leaves too many gaps for future attacks. This may be solved with aspect-oriented programming. For example, an aspect may be written to enforce that calls to a certain API are always logged, or that errors are always logged when an exception is thrown, regardless of whether the program's procedural code handles the exception or propagates it.\n\nMost project organization tasks are seen as secondary tasks. For example, build automation is an approach to automating the process of compiling source code into binary code. The primary goals in build automation are reducing the risk of human error and saving time.\n\nIn cognitive science and artificial intelligence, it is common to refer to David Marr's levels of analysis. At any given time, a researcher may be focusing on (1) what some aspect of intelligence needs to compute, (2) what algorithm it employs, or (3) how that algorithm is implemented in hardware. This separation of concerns is similar to the interface/implementation distinction in software and hardware engineering.\n\nIn Normalized Systems separation of concerns is one of the four guiding principles. Adhering to this principle is one of the tools that helps reduce the combinatorial effects that, over time, get introduced in software that is being maintained. In Normalized Systems separation of concerns is actively supported by the tools.\n\nSeparation of concerns can be implemented and enforced via partial classes.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "10502929", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10502929", "title": "Shakhid Baysayev", "text": "Shakhid Baysayev\n\nShakhid Raduyevich Baysayev (; 1939–2000) was a Chechen civilian who was forcibly disappeared (and presumably summarily executed) after being detained by Russian special police forces on the outskirts of Grozny, Chechnya on 2 March 2000. His body was never found.\n\nShakhid Baysayev was born in 1939 in Podgornoye, a suburb of Grozny in the Chechen-Ingush Autonomous Soviet Socialist Republic. In 2000 he worked as an auto mechanic at a local company; he was married with five children.\n\nIn the morning of March 2, 2002, the Russian OMON paramilitary police forces, who just suffered significant casualties from a notorious friendly fire incident in this neighbourhood of Grozny, conducted a search operation for suspected rebel fighters who were blamed for the incident. Baysayev was detained on his way to work; a witness described him as being in pain and his appearance suggested that he had been beaten. Russian troops filmed the detention themselves and later sold the videotape to his wife, Asmart Baysayeva, for $1,000; the video showing Baysayev lying on the ground and being kicked by a soldier before being taken away. She was also given a sketched map purportedly showing where her husband was buried; at the site, she found a fragment of cloth that looked like it came from his coat.\n\nAfter the detention of her husband, Baysayeva immediately complained to the authorities. Despite her continued efforts and the existence of the footage of the detention, however, the Russian authorities failed to carry out an effective investigation, prompting Baysayeva to turn to the European Court of Human Rights (ECHR). On April 5, 2007, in the ruling in the case Baysayeva v. Russia, the European Court ruled that Baysayev's detention was unlawful and that he must be presumed dead. The Court also found it \"astonishing\" that the servicemen depicted in the video, who were unmasked, have still not been identified by the official investigation.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4374766", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4374766", "title": "Stambovsky v. Ackley", "text": "Stambovsky v. Ackley\n\nStambovsky v. Ackley, 169 A.D.2d 254 (N.Y. App. Div. 1991), commonly known as the \"Ghostbusters\" ruling, is a case in the New York Supreme Court, Appellate Division, that held that a house, which the owner had previously advertised to the public as haunted by ghosts, legally was haunted for the purpose of an action for rescission brought by a subsequent purchaser of the house. Because of its unique holding, the case has been frequently printed in textbooks on contracts and property law and widely taught in U.S. law school classes, and is often cited by other courts.\n\nDuring the course of her ownership of the property at issue, which was located in Nyack, New York, Helen Ackley and members of her family had reported the existence of numerous poltergeists in the house. Ackley had reported the existence of ghosts in the house to both \"Reader's Digest\" and a local newspaper on three occasions between 1977 and 1989, when the house was included on a five-home walking tour of the city. She recounted to the press several instances in which the poltergeists interacted directly with members of her family. She claimed that grandchildren received \"gifts\" of baby rings, all of which suddenly disappeared later. She also claimed that one ghost would wake her daughter, Cynthia each morning by shaking her bed. She claimed that when spring break arrived Cynthia proclaimed loudly that she did not have to wake up early and she would like to sleep in; her bed did not shake the next morning.\n\nNeither Ackley nor her real estate broker, Ellis Realty, revealed the haunting to Jeffrey Stambovsky before he entered a contract to purchase the house in 1989 or 1990. Stambovsky made a $32,500 downpayment on the agreed price of $650,000 for the house. Stambovsky was from New York City and was not aware of the folklore of Nyack, including the widely known haunting story.\n\nWhen Stambovsky learned of the haunting story, he filed an action requesting rescission of the contract of sale and for damages for fraudulent misrepresentation by Ackley and Ellis Realty. Stambovsky did not attend the closing which caused him to forfeit the downpayment (although he was then not obligated to buy the house). A New York Supreme Court (trial court) dismissed the action, and Stambovsky appealed.\n\nNear the beginning of the majority opinion (three out of five justices) appears its most well-known conclusion: \"having reported [the ghosts'] presence in both a national publication... and the local press... defendant is estopped to deny their existence and, as a matter of law, the house is haunted.\" The court noted that regardless of whether the house was truly haunted or not, the fact that the house had been widely reported as being haunted greatly affected its value.\n\nNotwithstanding these conclusions, the court affirmed the dismissal of the fraudulent misrepresentation action and stated that the realtor was under no duty to disclose the haunting to potential buyers. Thus, no damages were available to Stambovsky because New York, at the time, adhered to property law doctrine of \"caveat emptor\".\n\nThe appellate court reversed the trial court's decision regarding the rescission action, however, as it went on to note that \"haunting\" was not a condition that a buyer or potential buyer of real property can and should be able to ascertain upon reasonable inspection of the property. According to the court, though the doctrine of \"caveat emptor\" would normally operate to bar a rescission action, causing seller to have no duty to disclose information about the property to be sold (but also preventing the seller from affirmatively misrepresenting the condition of the property), the doctrine, in a merged law and equity system, can be modified to do justice to the parties. In this case, \"the most meticulous inspection and the search would not reveal the presence of poltergeists at the premises or unearth the property's ghoulish reputation in the community,\" thus equity would allow Stambovsky the remedy of contract rescission against the seller, Ackley. The court held:\n\nWhere, as here, the seller not only takes unfair advantage of the buyer's ignorance but has created and perpetuated a condition about which he is unlikely to even inquire, enforcement of the contract (in whole or in part) is offensive to the court's sense of equity. Application of the remedy of rescission, within the bounds of the narrow exception to the doctrine of caveat emptor set forth herein, is entirely appropriate to relieve the unwitting purchaser from the consequences of a most unnatural bargain.\n\nThe opinion makes reference to a number of popular books and films featuring ghosts, including Shakespeare's \"Hamlet\" and the 1984 movie \"Ghostbusters\" and uses supernatural idioms throughout (e.g., \"plaintiff hasn't a ghost of a chance\", \"I am moved by the spirit of equity\", and \"the notion [...] is a hobgoblin which should be exorcised from the body of legal precedent\").\n\nThe dissenting opinion argued that the doctrine of \"caveat emptor\" should be strictly applied and would affirm the trial court's dismissal of all of the actions. Displeased by the majority's basis for its holding, the dissent said, \"Finally, if the doctrine of caveat emptor is to be discarded, it should be for a reason more substantive than a poltergeist. The existence of a poltergeist is no more binding upon the defendants than it is upon this court.\"\n\nThe case generated considerable publicity and area real estate agents had between 25 and 50 potential buyers calling within a week of the court's decision. Among the prospective buyers to the house at 1 LaVeta Place on the Hudson River was Kreskin. Kreskin was a renowned mentalist interested in purchasing a haunted home in which to curate his collection of paranormal paraphernalia. Ackley sold the house to another buyer and moved to Florida in 1991. Helen Ackley died in 2003 and her son-in-law \"lays odds\" that her spirit has taken up residence back at 1 Ackley Place. There have not been public reports of hauntings in recent years.\n\nThe house had been vacant and was in disrepair when the Ackleys moved into the waterfront home in the 1960s. Local children purportedly warned them that the house was haunted, though no prior paranormal incidents appear to have been published. Helen Ackley claimed there were at least three ghosts in the residence. She described two as a married couple who lived in the 18th century, and the other as a Navy Lieutenant in the American Revolution. In 1993 she was contacted by paranormal researcher Bill Merrill, and medium Glenn Johnson who claimed to have already made contact with two of the spirits at 1 LaVeta Place. The pair met with Helen and disclosed that the couple were likely the poltergeists of Sir George and Lady Margaret who lived in the region in the 18th century. In 1995 Merrill and Johnson published a book about their findings entitled \"Sir George, The Ghost of Nyack\" (Deer Publishing, Beaverton, Oregon) – still available on Amazon.\n\nsitting in midair, watching me paint the ceiling in the living room, rocking back and forth... I was on an 8-foot stepladder. I asked if he approved of what we were doing to the house, if the colors were to his liking. He smiled and he nodded his head.\n\n\nCyn had already fallen asleep and I was drifting. Then I heard the bedroom door creak, and the floor boards squeak. My back was to the edge of the bed. Suddenly the edge of the bed by my mid-section depressed down, and I felt something lean against me. I went literally stone stiff! I was speechless and could hardly move. I was able to twist my neck around enough to see a womanly figure in a soft dress through the moonlight from the bay windows. I felt like she was looking straight at me. After about minute, the presence got up and walked back out of the room. I finally relaxed enough to shake my wife out of sound sleep acting like a toddler who just had a nightmare.\n\nAll but Kavanagh's accounts were written by Helen and submitted to \"Reader's Digest\" magazine and published in its May 1977 issue.\n\nDespite these somewhat unnerving tales, the Ackleys said they had a peaceful coexistence with the poltergeists, and the only account of any terrorizing events is Kavanagh's tale reproduced above. Kavanagh later reflected on the incidents that he experienced and came to the conclusion that the ghosts were evaluating him to make sure he was a good suitor for Cynthia.\n\nSince the Ackleys moved from the home in the beginning of the 1990s there have not been any more accounts of paranormal activity reported by any of the subsequent owners of which there have been three. However, Merrill and Johnson reported that Sir George and Lady Margaret expressed that the spirits were not as fond of the new owners and were thinking of moving on. It is also reported that after the judgment against Helen in the lawsuit she claimed that she was moving and taking the ghosts with her.\n\nThe imposing Victorian waterfront home was built in 1890 with 5 bedrooms, 3 ½ baths, and approximately 4,628 square feet. George and Helen Ackley purchased the home in the early 1960s and shared the home with their four children, Cynthia, George, Cara, and William. George died in 1978 at the age of 53, less than one year after the first accounts of paranormal activity appeared in \"Reader's Digest\". Though his death was not in the home, but at an area hospital after heart surgery, however there was a death in the home sometime after when a relatively young and otherwise healthy dinner guest died of a brain aneurysm. By 1990 the residents included Helen's grandchildren, daughter-in-law and future son-in-law, Mark Kavanagh. The \"Ghostbusters\" home sold on Jan 8, 2016 for more than $600,000 above comparable homes in Nyack according to Trulia, fetching $1,770,000.\n\nThe exterior of the home was red for some time, though it has now been painted light blue.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4236378", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4236378", "title": "Umibōzu", "text": "Umibōzu\n\nThe Umibōzu is said to live in the ocean and capsize the ship of anyone who dares speak to it. This spirit's name -- which combines the character for \"sea\" with the character for \"Buddhist monk\" -- is possibly related to the fact that the Umibōzu is said to have a large, round head resembling the shaven heads of Buddhist monks.\nAlternatively, it is a demonic Yōkai (spectres) that appear to shipwreck victims and fishermen. It is believed to be a drowned priest, exhibiting a shaven head and typically appears to be praying, along with having a perpetual smile. It is usually reported as having a grey, cloud-like torso and serpentine limbs.\n\nAccording to one story, if angered (commonly when seamen insult or disrespect them), it asks that the crews provide a barrel that it proceeds to fill with sea water to drown them. To avoid this disastrous fate, it is necessary to give him a bottomless barrel.\n\nThis folktale is likely related to another Japanese tradition, which says that the souls of people who have no one to look after their graves take refuge at sea.\n\nThe umibōzu is a very well known yōkai as it is also recognized in modern Japanese culture:\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "46727083", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46727083", "title": "Valentina Maureira", "text": "Valentina Maureira\n\nValentina Maureira Riquelme (2000/01 – May 14, 2015) was a Chilean teenager who gained international attention after using social media to ask Chilean President Michele Bachelet to allow her to die by euthanasia. Bachelet denied her request.\n\nMaureira was the daughter of Freddy Maureira and had a brother who died at the age of six of cystic fibrosis. She was herself diagnosed with the disease shortly afterwards.\n\nEarly in 2015, she used YouTube to post a video asking President Bachelet to allow her to be euthanised. Bachelet denied the request based on Chile's laws, citing the Catholicism in their country as a reason to enforce those laws. \n\nDays later, President Bachelet visited the stricken girl in the hospital. Up until 23 March, Maureira received public support for her wellbeing and met someone aged beyond 20 with similar disease, prompting her to change her mind about euthanasia.\n\nOn 14 May, Maureira died at age 14 in the hospital.\n"}
{"id": "46112", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46112", "title": "Violence", "text": "Violence\n\nViolence is defined by the World Health Organization as \"the intentional use of physical force or power, threatened or actual, against oneself, another person, or against a group or community, which either results in or has a high likelihood of resulting in injury, death, psychological harm, maldevelopment, or deprivation,\" although the group acknowledges that the inclusion of \"the use of power\" in its definition expands on the conventional understanding of the word.\nGlobally, violence resulted in the deaths of an estimated 1.28 million people in 2013 up from 1.13 million in 1990. Of the deaths in 2013, roughly 842,000 were attributed to self-harm (suicide), 405,000 to interpersonal violence, and 31,000 to collective violence (war) and legal intervention. In Africa, out of every 100,000 people, each year an estimated 60.9 die a violent death. Corlin, past president of the American Medical Association said: \"The United States leads the world—in the rate at which its children die from firearms.\" He concluded: \"Gun violence is a threat to the public health of our country.\" For each single death due to violence, there are dozens of hospitalizations, hundreds of emergency department visits, and thousands of doctors' appointments. Furthermore, violence often has lifelong consequences for physical and mental health and social functioning and can slow economic and social development.\nIn 2013, assault by firearm was the leading cause of death due to interpersonal violence, with 180,000 such deaths estimated to have occurred. The same year, assault by sharp object resulted in roughly 114,000 deaths, with a remaining 110,000 deaths from personal violence being attributed to other causes.\nViolence in many forms is preventable. There is a strong relationship between levels of violence and modifiable factors such as concentrated poverty, income and gender inequality, the harmful use of alcohol, and the absence of safe, stable, and nurturing relationships between children and parents. Strategies addressing the underlying causes of violence can be effective in preventing violence.\n\nViolence can be divided into three broad categories:\n\nViolent acts can be:\n\nThis initial categorization differentiates between violence a person inflicts upon himself or herself, violence inflicted by another individual or by a small group of individuals, and violence inflicted by larger groups such as states, organized political groups, militia groups and terrorist organizations. These three broad categories are each divided further to reflect more specific types of violence.\n\nViolence is primarily classified as either instrumental or reactive / hostile.\n\nSelf-directed violence is subdivided into suicidal behaviour and self-abuse. The former includes suicidal thoughts, attempted suicides – also called \"para suicide\" or \"deliberate self-injury\" in some countries – and completed suicides. Self-abuse, in contrast, includes acts such as self-mutilation.\n\nCollective violence is subdivided into structural violence and economic violence. Unlike the other two broad categories, the subcategories of collective violence suggest possible motives for violence committed by larger groups of individuals or by states. Collective violence that is committed to advance a particular social agenda includes, for example, crimes of hate committed by organized groups, terrorist acts and mob violence. Political violence includes war and related violent conflicts, state violence and similar acts carried out by larger groups. Economic violence includes attacks by larger groups motivated by economic gain – such as attacks carried out with the purpose of disrupting economic activity, denying access to essential services, or creating economic division and fragmentation. Clearly, acts committed by larger groups can have multiple motives.\n\nThis typology, while imperfect and far from being universally accepted, does provide a useful framework for understanding the complex patterns of violence taking place around the world, as well as violence in the everyday lives of individuals, families and communities. It also overcomes many of the limitations of other typologies by capturing the nature of violent acts, the relevance of the setting, the relationship between the perpetrator and the victim, and – in the case of collective violence – possible motivations for the violence. However, in both research and practice, the dividing lines between the different types of violence are not always so clear.. State violence also involves upholding, forms of violence of a structural nature, such as poverty, through dismantling welfare, creating strict policies such as 'welfare to work', in order to cause further stimulation and disadvantage Poverty as a form of violence may involve oppressive policies that specifically target minority or low socio-economic groups. The 'war on drugs', for example, rather than increasing the health and well-being of at risk demographics, most often results in violence committed against these vulnerable demographics through incarceration, stigmatization and police brutality\n\nWar is a state of prolonged violent large-scale conflict involving two or more groups of people, usually under the auspices of government. It is the most extreme form of collective violence.\nWar is fought as a means of resolving territorial and other conflicts, as war of aggression to conquer territory or loot resources, in national self-defence or liberation, or to suppress attempts of part of the nation to secede from it. We know also ideological, religious and revolutionary wars.\n\nSince the Industrial Revolution, the lethality of modern warfare has grown. World War I casualties were over 40 million and World War II casualties were over 70 million.\n\nViolence includes those acts that result from a power relationship, including threats and intimidation, neglect or acts of omission. Such non-physical violence has a broad range of outcomes – including psychological harm, deprivation and maldevelopment. Violence may not necessarily result in injury or death, but nonetheless poses a substantial burden on individuals, families, communities and health care systems worldwide. Many forms of violence can result in physical, psychological and social problems that do not necessarily lead to injury, disability or death. These consequences can be immediate, as well as latent, and can last for years after the initial abuse. Defining outcomes solely in terms of injury or death thus limits the understanding of the full impact of violence.\n\nInterpersonal violence is divided into two subcategories: Family and intimate partner violence – that is, violence largely between family members and intimate partners, usually, though not exclusively, taking place in the home. Community violence – violence between individuals who are unrelated, and who may or may not know each other, generally taking place outside the home. The former group includes forms of violence such as child abuse, intimate partner violence and abuse of the elderly. The latter includes youth violence, random acts of violence, rape or sexual assault by strangers, and violence in institutional settings such as schools, workplaces, prisons and nursing homes. When interpersonal violence occurs in families, its psychological consequences can affect parents, children, and their relationship in the short- and long-terms.\n\nChild maltreatment is the abuse and neglect that occurs to children under 18 years of age. It includes all types of physical and/or emotional ill-treatment, sexual abuse, neglect, negligence and commercial or other child exploitation, which results in actual or potential harm to the child’s health, survival, development or dignity in the context of a relationship of responsibility, trust, or power. Exposure to intimate partner violence is also sometimes included as a form of child maltreatment.\n\nChild maltreatment is a global problem with serious lifelong consequences, which is, however, complex and difficult to study.\n\nThere are no reliable global estimates for the prevalence of child maltreatment. Data for many countries, especially low- and middle-income countries, are lacking. Current estimates vary widely depending on the country and the method of research used. Approximately 20% of women and 5–10% of men report being sexually abused as children, while 25–50% of all children report being physically abused.\n\nConsequences of child maltreatment include impaired lifelong physical and mental health, and social and occupational functioning (e.g. school, job, and relationship difficulties). These can ultimately slow a country's economic and social development. Preventing child maltreatment before it starts is possible and requires a multisectoral approach. Effective prevention programmes support parents and teach positive parenting skills. Ongoing care of children and families can reduce the risk of maltreatment reoccurring and can minimize its consequences.\n\nFollowing the World Health Organization, youth are defined as people between the ages of 10 and 29 years. Youth violence refers to violence occurring between youths, and includes acts that range from bullying and physical fighting, through more severe sexual and physical assault to homicide.\n\nWorldwide some 250,000 homicides occur among youth 10–29 years of age each year, which is 41% of the total number of homicides globally each year (\"Global Burden of Disease\", World Health Organization, 2008). For each young person killed, 20-40 more sustain injuries requiring hospital treatment. Youth violence has a serious, often lifelong, impact on a person's psychological and social functioning. Youth violence greatly increases the costs of health, welfare and criminal justice services; reduces productivity; decreases the value of property; and generally undermines the fabric of society.\n\nPrevention programmes shown to be effective or to have promise in reducing youth violence include life skills and social development programmes designed to help children and adolescents manage anger, resolve conflict, and develop the necessary social skills to solve problems; schools-based anti-bullying prevention programmes; and programmes to reduce access to alcohol, illegal drugs and guns. Also, given significant neighbourhood effects on youth violence, interventions involving relocating families to less poor environments have shown promising results. Similarly, urban renewal projects such as business improvement districts have shown a reduction in youth violence.\n\nDifferent types of youth on youth violence include witnessing or being involved in physical, emotional and sexual abuse (e.g. physical attacks, bullying, rape) and violent acts like gang shootings and robberies. According to researchers in 2018, \"More than half of children and adolescents living in cities have experienced some form of community violence.\" The violence \"can also all take place under one roof, or in a given community or neighborhood and can happen at the same time or at different stages of life.\" It seems that youth violence is on the rise due to the growing number of legal and illegal guns on the streets especially in low income neighborhoods. Youth violence has immediate and long term adverse impact whether the individual was the recipient of the violence or a witness to it. Our knowledge about the impact of trauma on the brain, mind and body is growing every day as more research studies have been conducted and results are published. \"Youth violence is a leading cause of death for adolescents and young adults. Some forms of youth violence, such as bullying, slapping, or hitting, can cause severe emotional harm, nonfatal physical injuries, and long-lasting problems.\"\n\nThe cost to individuals, their families, and society in general is huge and rising. These people often have lifelong injuries which means ongoing doctor and hospital visits the cost of which quickly adds up. Since the victims of youth on youth violence may not be able to attend school or work because of their physical and/or mental injuries, it is often up to their family members to take care of them (including paying their daily living expenses and medical bills). Their caretakers may have to give up their jobs or work reduced hours to provide help to the victim of violence. This causes a further burden on society because the victim and maybe even their caretakers have to obtain government assistance to help pay their bills. Recent research has found that psychological trauma during childhood can change a child's brain. \"Trauma is known to physically affect the brain and the body which causes anxiety, rage, and the ability to concentrate. They can also have problems remembering, trusting, and forming relationships.\" Since the brain becomes used to violence it may stay continually in an alert state (similar to being stuck in the fight or flight mode). \"Researchers claim that the youth who are exposed to violence may have emotional, social, and cognitive problems. They may have trouble controlling emotions, paying attention in school, withdraw from friends, or show signs of post-traumatic stress disorder\". Youth who do not get help and get it under control may have more issues down the line.\n\nIt is important for youth exposed to violence to understand how their bodies may react so they can take positive steps to counteract any possible short and long term negative effects (e.g., poor concentration, feelings of depression, heightened levels of anxiety). By taking immediate steps to mitigate the effects of the trauma they’ve experienced negative repercussions can be reduced or eliminated. As an initial step, the kids need to understand why they may be feeling a certain way and to understand how the violence they have experienced may be causing negative feelings and making them behave differently. Pursuing a greater awareness of their feelings, perceptions, and negative emotions is the first step that should be taken as part of recovering from the trauma they have experienced. “Neuroscience research shows that the only way we can change the way we feel is by becoming aware of our inner experience and learning to befriend what is going on inside ourselves”. If this initial awareness step is not sufficiently completed the youth may then knowingly or unknowingly resort to bullying as a way to release their own anger, compulsive behaviors (eating, drinking, drugs), anger management problems; and avoidance of social interactions. These types of behaviors may put them at an even greater risk for future violence in their lives. \nSome of the ways to combat the adverse effects of exposure to youth violence would be to try various mindfulness and movement activities, deep breathing exercises and other actions that enable these kids to release their pent up emotions. Using these techniques will teach body awareness, reduce anxiety and nervousness, and reduce feelings of anger and annoyance. Over time these types of activities will help these younger victims of violence to have greater control over their feelings and behaviors and avoid unhealthy ways of coping. Another way to help trauma victims of youth violence is through the arts. This can be accomplished by giving them the opportunity to engage in drawing, painting, music, and singing which will give them an outlet to express themselves and their emotions in a positive way.\n\nIt’s been discovered that having youth who have experienced violence benefit from having a close relationship with one or more people. This is important because the trauma victims need to have people who are safe and trustworthy that they can relate and talk to about their horrible experiences. Some youth do not have adult figures at home or someone they can count on for guidance and comfort. Schools in bad neighborhoods where youth violence is prevalent should assign counselors to each student so that they receive regular guidance. In addition to counseling/therapy sessions and programs, schools should offer mentoring programs where the kids can interact with adults who can be a positive influence on them. Another way is to create more neighborhood programs to ensure that each child has a positive and stable place to go when school in not in session. It doesn’t have to be a formal organization just a place where the kids can have positive role models in their lives and engage in stress relieving activities (sports, yoga, and arts). Many kids have benefited from formal organizations now which aim to help mentor and provide a safe environment for the youth especially those living in neighborhoods with higher rates of violence. This includes organizations such as Becoming a Man, CeaseFire Illinois, Chicago Area Project, Little Black Pearl, and Rainbow House\". These programs are designed to help give the youth a safe place to go, stop the violence from occurring, offering counseling and mentoring to help stop the cycle of violence. For example, Derek grew up amongst the violence in Chicago in the 1980's and was even a former gang leader. It took him thirty years in a gang and time in jail to realize he was on the wrong path. He created a boxing program called \"Boxing Out Negativity\" which provides youth in high crime areas a safe place to get out their anger and energy. It helps them in a positive way and keeps them off the street. With the help of programs to help victims of youth violence there is a greater opportunity for these youth to turn their lives around.\n\nIntimate partner violence refers to behaviour in an intimate relationship that causes physical, sexual or psychological harm, including physical aggression, sexual coercion, psychological abuse and controlling behaviours.\n\nPopulation-level surveys based on reports from victims provide the most accurate estimates of the prevalence of intimate partner violence and sexual violence in non-conflict settings. A study conducted by WHO in 10 mainly developing countries found that, among women aged 15 to 49 years, between 15% (Japan) and 70% (Ethiopia and Peru) of women reported physical and/or sexual violence by an intimate partner.\n\nIntimate partner and sexual violence have serious short- and long-term physical, mental, sexual and reproductive health problems for victims and for their children, and lead to high social and economic costs. These include both fatal and non-fatal injuries, depression and post-traumatic stress disorder, unintended pregnancies, sexually transmitted infections, including HIV.\n\nFactors associated with the perpetration and experiencing of intimate partner violence are low levels of education, history of violence as a perpetrator, a victim or a witness of parental violence, harmful use of alcohol, attitudes that are accepting of violence as well as marital discord and dissatisfaction. Factors associated only with perpetration of intimate partner violence are having multiple partners, and antisocial personality disorder.\n\nA recent theory named \"The Criminal Spin\" suggests a mutual flywheel effect between partners that is manifested by an escalation in the violence. A violent spin may occur in any other forms of violence, but in Intimate partner violence the added value is the mutual spin, based on the unique situation and characteristics of intimate relationship.\n\nThe primary prevention strategy with the best evidence for effectiveness for intimate partner violence is school-based programming for adolescents to prevent violence within dating relationships. Evidence is emerging for the effectiveness of several other primary prevention strategies – those that: combine microfinance with gender equality training; promote communication and relationship skills within communities; reduce access to, and the harmful use of alcohol; and change cultural gender norms.\n\nSexual violence is any sexual act, attempt to obtain a sexual act, unwanted sexual comments or advances, or acts to traffic, or otherwise directed against a person’s sexuality using coercion, by any person regardless of their relationship to the victim, in any setting. It includes rape, defined as the physically forced or otherwise coerced penetration of the vulva or anus with a penis, other body part or object.\n\nPopulation-level surveys based on reports from victims estimate that between 0.3–11.5% of women reported experiencing sexual violence. Sexual violence has serious short- and long-term consequences on physical, mental, sexual and reproductive health for victims and for their children as described in the section on intimate partner violence. If perpetrated during childhood, sexual violence can lead to increased smoking, drug and alcohol misuse, and risky sexual behaviors in later life. It is also associated with perpetration of violence and being a victim of violence.\n\nMany of the risk factors for sexual violence are the same as for domestic violence. Risk factors specific to sexual violence perpetration include beliefs in family honor and sexual purity, ideologies of male sexual entitlement and weak legal sanctions for sexual violence.\n\nFew interventions to prevent sexual violence have been demonstrated to be effective. School-based programmes to prevent child sexual abuse by teaching children to recognize and avoid potentially sexually abusive situations are run in many parts of the world and appear promising, but require further research. To achieve lasting change, it is important to enact legislation and develop policies that protect women; address discrimination against women and promote gender equality; and help to move the culture away from violence.\n\nElder maltreatment is a single or repeated act, or lack of appropriate action, occurring within any relationship where there is an expectation of trust which causes harm or distress to an older person. This type of violence constitutes a violation of human rights and includes physical, sexual, psychological, emotional; financial and material abuse; abandonment; neglect; and serious loss of dignity and respect.\n\nWhile there is little information regarding the extent of maltreatment in elderly populations, especially in developing countries, it is estimated that 4–6% of elderly people in high-income countries have experienced some form of maltreatment at home However, older people are often afraid to report cases of maltreatment to family, friends, or to the authorities. Data on the extent of the problem in institutions such as hospitals, nursing homes and other long-term care facilities are scarce. Elder maltreatment can lead to serious physical injuries and long-term psychological consequences. Elder maltreatment is predicted to increase as many countries are experiencing rapidly ageing populations.\n\nMany strategies have been implemented to prevent elder maltreatment and to take action against it and mitigate its consequences including public and professional awareness campaigns, screening (of potential victims and abusers), caregiver support interventions (e.g. stress management, respite care), adult protective services and self-help groups. Their effectiveness has, however, not so far been well-established.\n\nSeveral rare but painful episodes of assassination, attempted assassination and school shootings at elementary, middle, high schools, as well as colleges and universities in the United States, led to a considerable body of research on ascertainable behaviors of persons who have planned or carried out such attacks. These studies (1995–2002) investigated what the authors called \"targeted violence,\" described the \"path to violence\" of those who planned or carried out attacks and laid out suggestions for law enforcement and educators. A major point from these research studies is that targeted violence does not just \"come out of the blue\".\n\nAs an anthropological concept, \"everyday violence\" may refer to the incorporation of different forms of violence (mainly political violence) into daily practices.\n\nViolence cannot be attributed to a single factor. Its causes are complex and occur at different levels. To represent this complexity, the ecological, or social ecological model is often used. The following four-level version of the ecological model is often used in the study of violence:\n\nThe first level identifies biological and personal factors that influence how individuals behave and increase their likelihood of becoming a victim or perpetrator of violence: demographic characteristics (age, education, income), genetics, brain lesions, personality disorders, substance abuse, and a history of experiencing, witnessing, or engaging in violent behaviour.\n\nThe second level focuses on close relationships, such as those with family and friends. In youth violence, for example, having friends who engage in or encourage violence can increase a young person’s risk of being a victim or perpetrator of violence. For intimate partner violence, a consistent marker at this level of the model is marital conflict or discord in the relationship. In elder abuse, important factors are stress due to the nature of the past relationship between the abused person and the care giver.\n\nThe third level explores the community context—i.e., schools, workplaces, and neighbourhoods. Risk at this level may be affected by factors such as the existence of a local drug trade, the absence of social networks, and concentrated poverty. All these factors have been shown to be important in several types of violence.\n\nFinally, the fourth level looks at the broad societal factors that help to create a climate in which violence is encouraged or inhibited: the responsiveness of the criminal justice system, social and cultural norms regarding gender roles or parent-child relationships, income inequality, the strength of the social welfare system, the social acceptability of violence, the availability of weapons, the exposure to violence in mass media, and political instability.\n\nCross-cultural studies have shown that greater prevalence of corporal punishment of children tends to predict higher levels of violence in societies. For instance, a 2005 analysis of 186 pre-industrial societies found that corporal punishment was more prevalent in societies which also had higher rates of homicide, assault, and war. In the United States, domestic corporal punishment has been linked to later violent acts against family members and spouses. While studies showing associations between physical punishment of children and later aggression cannot prove that physical punishment causes an increase in aggression, a number of longitudinal studies suggest that the experience of physical punishment has a direct causal effect on later aggressive behaviors. The American family violence researcher Murray A. Straus believes that disciplinary spanking forms \"the most prevalent and important form of violence in American families\", whose effects contribute to several major societal problems, including later domestic violence and crime.\n\nThe causes of violent behaviour in humans are often a topic of research in psychology. Neurobiologist Jan Volavka emphasizes that, for those purposes, \"violent behavior is defined as intentional physically aggressive behavior against another person.\"\n\nBased on the idea of human nature, scientists do agree violence is inherent in humans. Among prehistoric humans, there is archaeological evidence for both contentions of violence and peacefulness as primary characteristics.\n\nSince violence is a matter of perception as well as a measurable phenomenon, psychologists have found variability in whether people perceive certain physical acts as \"violent\". For example, in a state where execution is a legalized punishment we do not typically perceive the executioner as \"violent\", though we may talk, in a more metaphorical way, of the state acting violently. Likewise, understandings of violence are linked to a perceived aggressor-victim relationship: hence psychologists have shown that people may not recognise defensive use of force as violent, even in cases where the amount of force used is significantly greater than in the original aggression.\n\nThe \"violent male ape\" image is often brought up in discussions of human violence. Dale Peterson and Richard Wranghamin \"Demonic Males: Apes and the Origins of Human Violence\" write that violence is inherent in humans, though not inevitable.\nHowever, William L. Ury, editor of a book called \"Must We Fight? From the Battlefield to the Schoolyard—A New Perspective on Violent Conflict and Its Prevention\" criticizes the \"killer ape\" myth in his book which brings together discussions from two Harvard Law School symposiums. The conclusion is that \"we also have lots of natural mechanisms for cooperation, to keep conflict in check, to channel aggression, and to overcome conflict. These are just as natural to us as the aggressive tendencies.\"\n\nThe psychiatrist James Gilligan argues that most violent behavior represents an effort to eliminate feelings of shame and humiliation, which he calls \"the death of self\". The use of violence often is a source of pride and a defence of honor, especially among males who believe violence defines manhood.\n\nIn an article entitled \"The History of Violence\" in \"The New Republic\", Steven Pinker posits that, on average, the amount and cruelty of violence to humans and animals has decreased over the last few centuries.\n\nPinker's observation of the decline in interpersonal violence echoes the work of Norbert Elias, who attributes the decline to a \"civilizing process\", in which the state's monopolization of violence, the maintenance of socioeconomic interdependencies or \"figurations\", and the maintenance of behavioural codes in culture all contribute to the development of individual sensibilities, which increase the repugnance of individuals towards violent acts.\n\nSome scholars disagree with the argument that all violence is decreasing arguing that not all types of violent behaviour are lower now than in the past. They suggest that research typically focuses on lethal violence, often looks at homicide rates of death due to warfare, but ignore the less obvious forms of violence. However, non-lethal violence, such as assaults or bullying appear to be declining as well.\nIn his article \"The Coming Anarchy\", Robert D. Kaplan introduces the notion of liberating violence. According to Kaplan, we will observe more violent civil wars in the future, which will be fought due to economic inequalities around the world.\n\nThe concept of violence normalization, is known as socially sanctioned or structural violence, and is a topic of increasing interest to researchers trying to understand violent behavior. It has been discussed at length by researchers in sociology, medical anthropology, psychology, philosophy, and bioarchaeology.\n\nEvolutionary psychology offers several explanations for human violence in various contexts, such as sexual jealousy in humans, child abuse, and homicide. Goetz (2010) argues that humans are similar to most mammal species and use violence in specific situations. He writes that \"Buss and Shackelford (1997a) proposed seven adaptive problems our ancestors recurrently faced that might have been solved by aggression: co-opting the resources of others, defending against attack, inflicting costs on same-sex rivals, negotiating status and hierarchies, deterring rivals from future aggression, deterring mate from infidelity, and reducing resources expended on genetically unrelated children.\"\n\nGoetz writes that most homicides seem to start from relatively trivial disputes between unrelated men who then escalate to violence and death. He argues that such conflicts occur when there is a status dispute between men of relatively similar status. If there is a great initial status difference, then the lower status individual usually offers no challenge and if challenged the higher status individual usually ignores the lower status individual. At the same an environment of great inequalities between people may cause those at the bottom to use more violence in attempts to gain status.\n\nResearch into the media and violence examines whether links between consuming media violence and subsequent aggressive and violent behaviour exists. Although some scholars had claimed media violence may increase aggression, this view is coming increasingly in doubt both in the scholarly community and was rejected by the US Supreme Court in the Brown v EMA case, as well as in a review of video game violence by the Australian Government (2010) which concluded evidence for harmful effects were inconclusive at best and the rhetoric of some scholars was not matched by good data.\n\nThe threat and enforcement of physical punishment has been a tried and tested method of preventing some violence since civilisation began. It is used in various degrees in most countries.\n\nA review of scientific literature by the World Health Organization on the effectiveness of strategies to prevent interpersonal violence identified the seven strategies below as being supported by either strong or emerging evidence for effectiveness. These strategies target risk factors at all four levels of the ecological model.\n\nAmong the most effective such programmes to prevent child maltreatment and reduce childhood aggression are the Nurse Family Partnership home-visiting programme and the Triple P (Parenting Program). There is also emerging evidence that these programmes reduce convictions and violent acts in adolescence and early adulthood, and probably help decrease intimate partner violence and self-directed violence in later life.\n\nEvidence shows that the life skills acquired in social development programmes can reduce involvement in violence, improve social skills, boost educational achievement and improve job prospects. Life skills refer to social, emotional, and behavioural competencies which help children and adolescents effectively deal with the challenges of everyday life.\n\nEvaluation studies are beginning to support community interventions that aim to prevent violence against women by promoting gender equality. For instance, evidence suggests that programmes that combine microfinance with gender equity training can reduce intimate partner violence. School-based programmes such as Safe Dates programme in the United States of America and the Youth Relationship Project in Canada have been found to be effective for reducing dating violence.\n\nRules or expectations of behaviour – norms – within a cultural or social group can encourage violence. Interventions that challenge cultural and social norms supportive of violence can prevent acts of violence and have been widely used, but the evidence base for their effectiveness is currently weak. The effectiveness of interventions addressing dating violence and sexual abuse among teenagers and young adults by challenging social and cultural norms related to gender is supported by some evidence.\n\nInterventions to identify victims of interpersonal violence and provide effective care and support are critical for protecting health and breaking cycles of violence from one generation to the next. Examples for which evidence of effectiveness is emerging includes: screening tools to identify victims of intimate partner violence and refer them to appropriate services; psychosocial interventions – such as trauma-focused cognitive behavioural therapy – to reduce mental health problems associated with violence, including post-traumatic stress disorder; and protection orders, which prohibit a perpetrator from contacting the victim, to reduce repeat victimization among victims of intimate partner violence.\n\nNot surprisingly, scientific evidence about the effectiveness of interventions to prevent collective violence is lacking. However, policies that facilitate reductions in poverty, that make decision-making more accountable, that reduce inequalities between groups, as well as policies that reduce access to biological, chemical, nuclear and other weapons have been recommended. When planning responses to violent conflicts, recommended approaches include assessing at an early stage who is most vulnerable and what their needs are, co-ordination of activities between various players and working towards global, national and local capabilities so as to deliver effective health services during the various stages of an emergency.\n\nOne of the main functions of law is to regulate violence. Sociologist Max Weber stated that the state claims the monopoly of the legitimate use of force practised within the confines of a specific territory. Law enforcement is the main means of regulating nonmilitary violence in society. Governments regulate the use of violence through legal systems governing individuals and political authorities, including the police and military. Civil societies authorize some amount of violence, exercised through the police power, to maintain the status quo and enforce laws.\n\nHowever, German political theorist Hannah Arendt noted: \"Violence can be justifiable, but it never will be legitimate ... Its justification loses in plausibility the farther its intended end recedes into the future. No one questions the use of violence in self-defence, because the danger is not only clear but also present, and the end justifying the means is immediate\". Arendt made a clear distinction between violence and power. Most political theorists regarded violence as an extreme manifestation of power whereas Arendt regarded the two concepts as opposites.\nIn the 20th century in acts of democide governments may have killed more than 260 million of their own people through police brutality, execution, massacre, slave labour camps, and sometimes through intentional famine.\n\nViolent acts that are not carried out by the military or police and that are not in self-defense are usually classified as crimes, although not all crimes are violent crimes. Damage to property is classified as violent crime in some jurisdictions but not in all. The Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI) classifies violence resulting in homicide into criminal homicide and justifiable homicide (e.g. self-defense).\n\nThe criminal justice approach sees its main task as enforcing laws that proscribe violence and ensuring that \"justice is done\". The notions of individual blame, responsibility, guilt, and culpability are central to criminal justice's approach to violence and one of the criminal justice system's main tasks is to \"do justice\", i.e. to ensure that offenders are properly identified, that the degree of their guilt is as accurately ascertained as possible, and that they are punished appropriately. To prevent and respond to violence, the criminal justice approach relies primarily on deterrence, incarceration and the punishment and rehabilitation of perpetrators.\n\nThe criminal justice approach, beyond justice and punishment, has traditionally emphasized indicated interventions, aimed at those who have already been involved in violence, either as victims or as perpetrators. One of the main reasons offenders are arrested, prosecuted, and convicted is to prevent further crimes – through deterrence (threatening potential offenders with criminal sanctions if they commit crimes), incapacitation (physically preventing offenders from committing further crimes by locking them up) and through rehabilitation (using time spent under state supervision to develop skills or change one's psychological make-up to reduce the likelihood of future offences).\n\nIn recent decades in many countries in the world, the criminal justice system has taken an increasing interest in preventing violence before it occurs. For instance, much of community and problem-oriented policing aims to reduce crime and violence by altering the conditions that foster it – and not to increase the number of arrests. Indeed, some police leaders have gone so far as to say the police should primarily be a crime prevention agency. Juvenile justice systems – an important component of criminal justice systems – are largely based on the belief in rehabilitation and prevention. In the US, the criminal justice system has, for instance, funded school- and community-based initiatives to reduce children's access to guns and teach conflict resolution. In 1974, the US Department of Justice assumed primary responsibility for delinquency prevention programmes and created the Office of Juvenile Justice and Delinquency Prevention, which has supported the \"Blueprints for violence prevention\" programme at the University of Colorado Boulder.\n\nThe public health approach is a science-driven, population-based, interdisciplinary, intersectoral approach based on the ecological model which emphasizes primary prevention. Rather than focusing on individuals, the public health approach aims to provide the maximum benefit for the largest number of people, and to extend better care and safety to entire populations. The public health approach is interdisciplinary, drawing upon knowledge from many disciplines including medicine, epidemiology, sociology, psychology, criminology, education and economics. Because all forms of violence are multi-faceted problems, the public health approach emphasizes a multi-sectoral response. It has been proved time and again that cooperative efforts from such diverse sectors as health, education, social welfare, and criminal justice are often necessary to solve what are usually assumed to be purely \"criminal\" or \"medical\" problems. The public health approach considers that violence, rather than being the result of any single factor, is the outcome of multiple risk factors and causes, interacting at four levels of a nested hierarchy (individual, close relationship/family, community and wider society) of the Social ecological model.\n\nFrom a public health perspective, prevention strategies can be classified into three types:\n\nA public health approach emphasizes the primary prevention of violence, i.e. stopping them from occurring in the first place. Until recently, this approach has been relatively neglected in the field, with the majority of resources directed towards secondary or tertiary prevention. Perhaps the most critical element of a public health approach to prevention is the ability to identify underlying causes rather than focusing upon more visible \"symptoms\". This allows for the development and testing of effective approaches to address the underlying causes and so improve health.\n\nThe public health approach is an evidence-based and systematic process involving the following four steps:\n\nIn many countries, violence prevention is still a new or emerging field in public health. The public health community has started only recently to realize the contributions it can make to reducing violence and mitigating its consequences. In 1949, Gordon called for injury prevention efforts to be based on the understanding of causes, in a similar way to prevention efforts for communicable and other diseases. In 1962, Gomez, referring to the WHO definition of health, stated that it is obvious that violence does not contribute to \"extending life\" or to a \"complete state of well-being\". He defined violence as an issue that public health experts needed to address and stated that it should not be the primary domain of lawyers, military personnel, or politicians.\n\nHowever, it is only in the last 30 years that public health has begun to address violence, and only in the last fifteen has it done so at the global level. This is a much shorter period of time than public health has been tackling other health problems of comparable magnitude and with similarly severe lifelong consequences.\n\nThe global public health response to interpersonal violence began in earnest in the mid-1990s. In 1996, the World Health Assembly adopted Resolution WHA49.25 which declared violence \"a leading worldwide public health problem\" and requested that the World Health Organization (WHO) initiate public health activities to (1) document and characterize the burden of violence, (2) assess the effectiveness of programmes, with particular attention to women and children and community-based initiatives, and (3) promote activities to tackle the problem at the international and national levels. The World Health Organization's initial response to this resolution was to create the Department of Violence and Injury Prevention and Disability and to publish the World report on violence and health (2002).\n\nThe case for the public health sector addressing interpersonal violence rests on four main arguments. First, the significant amount of time health care professionals dedicate to caring for victims and perpetrators of violence has made them familiar with the problem and has led many, particularly in emergency departments, to mobilize to address it. The information, resources, and infrastructures the health care sector has at its disposal are an important asset for research and prevention work. Second, the magnitude of the problem and its potentially severe lifelong consequences and high costs to individuals and wider society call for population-level interventions typical of the public health approach. Third, the criminal justice approach, the other main approach to addressing violence (link to entry above), has traditionally been more geared towards violence that occurs between male youths and adults in the street and other public places – which makes up the bulk of homicides in most countries – than towards violence occurring in private settings such as child maltreatment, intimate partner violence and elder abuse – which makes up the largest share of non-fatal violence. Fourth, evidence is beginning to accumulate that a science-based public health approach is effective at preventing interpersonal violence.\n\nThe human rights approach is based on the obligations of states to respect, protect and fulfill human rights and therefore to prevent, eradicate and punish violence. It recognizes violence as a violation of many human rights: the rights to life, liberty, autonomy and security of the person; the rights to equality and non-discrimination; the rights to be free from torture and cruel, inhuman and degrading treatment or punishment; the right to privacy; and the right to the highest attainable standard of health. These human rights are enshrined in international and regional treaties and national constitutions and laws, which stipulate the obligations of states, and include mechanisms to hold states accountable. The Convention on the Elimination of All Forms of Discrimination Against Women, for example, requires that countries party to the Convention take all appropriate steps to end violence against women. The Convention on the Rights of the Child in its Article 19 states that States Parties shall take all appropriate legislative, administrative, social and educational measures to protect the child from all forms of physical or mental violence, injury or abuse, neglect or negligent treatment, maltreatment or exploitation, including sexual abuse, while in the care of parent(s), legal guardian(s) or any other person who has the care of the child.\n\nViolence, as defined in the dictionary of human geography, \"appears whenever power is in jeopardy\" and \"in and of itself stands emptied of strength and purpose: it is part of a larger matrix of socio-political power struggles\". Violence can be broadly divided into three broad categories – direct violence, structural violence and cultural violence. Thus defined and delineated, it is of note, as Hyndman says, that \"geography came late to theorizing violence\" in comparison to other social sciences. Social and human geography, rooted in the humanist, Marxist, and feminist subfields that emerged following the early positivist approaches and subsequent behavioral turn, have long been concerned with social and spatial justice.\nAlong with critical geographers and political geographers, it is these groupings of geographers that most often interact with violence. Keeping this idea of social/spatial justice via geography in mind, it is worthwhile to look at geographical approaches to violence in the context of politics.\n\nDerek Gregory and Alan Pred assembled the influential edited collection \"Violent Geographies: Fear, Terror, and Political Violence\", which demonstrates how place, space, and landscape are foremost factors in the real and imagined practices of organized violence both historically and in the present. Evidently, political violence often gives a part for the state to play. When \"modern states not only claim a monopoly of the legitimate means of violence; they also routinely use the threat of violence to enforce the rule of law\", the law not only becomes a form of violence but is violence. Philosopher Giorgio Agamben's concepts of state of exception and \"homo sacer\" are useful to consider within a geography of violence. The state, in the grip of a perceived, potential crisis (whether legitimate or not) takes preventative legal measures, such as a suspension of rights (it is in this climate, as Agamben demonstrates, that the formation of the Social Democratic and Nazi government's lager or concentration camp can occur). However, when this \"in limbo\" reality is designed to be in place \"until further notice…the state of exception thus ceases to be referred to as an external and provisional state of factual danger and comes to be confused with juridical rule itself\". For Agamben, the physical space of the camp \"is a piece of land placed outside the normal juridical order, but it is nevertheless not simply an external space\". At the scale of the body, in the state of exception, a person is so removed from their rights by \"juridical procedures and deployments of power\" that \"no act committed against them could appear any longer as a crime\"; in other words, people become only \"homo sacer\". Guantanamo Bay could also be said to represent the physicality of the state of exception in space, and can just as easily draw man as homo sacer.\n\nIn the 1970s, genocides in Cambodia under the Khmer Rouge and Pol Pot resulted in the deaths of over two million Cambodians (which was 25% of the Cambodian population), forming one of the many contemporary examples of state-sponsored violence. About fourteen thousand of these murders occurred at Choeung Ek, which is the best-known of the extermination camps referred to as the Killing Fields. The killings were arbitrary; for example, a person could be killed for wearing glasses, since that was seen as associating them with intellectuals and therefore as making them part of the enemy. People were murdered with impunity because it was no crime; Cambodians were made \"homo sacer\" in a condition of bare life. The Killing Fields—manifestations of Agamben's concept of camps beyond the normal rule of law—featured the state of exception. As part of Pol Pot's \"ideological intent…to create a purely agrarian society or cooperative\", he \"dismantled the country's existing economic infrastructure and depopulated every urban area\". Forced movement, such as this forced movement applied by Pol Pot, is a clear display of structural violence. When \"symbols of Cambodian society were equally disrupted, social institutions of every kind…were purged or torn down\", cultural violence (defined as when \"any aspect of culture such as language, religion, ideology, art, or cosmology is used to legitimize direct or structural violence\") is added to the structural violence of forced movement and to the direct violence, such as murder, at the Killing Fields. Vietnam eventually intervened and the genocide officially ended. However, ten million landmines left by opposing guerillas in the 1970s continue to create a violent landscape in Cambodia.\n\nHuman geography, though coming late to the theorizing table, has tackled violence through many lenses, including anarchist geography, feminist geography, Marxist geography, political geography, and critical geography. However, Adriana Cavarero notes that, \"as violence spreads and assumes unheard-of forms, it becomes difficult to name in contemporary language\". Cavarero proposes that, in facing such a truth, it is prudent to reconsider violence as \"horrorism\"; that is, \"as though ideally all the…victims, instead of their killers, ought to determine the name\". With geography often adding the forgotten spatial aspect to theories of social science, rather than creating them solely within the discipline, it seems that the self-reflexive contemporary geography of today may have an extremely important place in this current (re)imaging of violence, exemplified by Cavarero.\n\nAs of 2010, all forms of violence resulted in about 1.34 million deaths up from about 1 million in 1990. Suicide accounts for about 883,000, interpersonal violence for 456,000 and collective violence for 18,000. Deaths due to collective violence have decreased from 64,000 in 1990.\n\nBy way of comparison, the 1.5 millions deaths a year due to violence is greater than the number of deaths due to tuberculosis (1.34 million), road traffic injuries (1.21 million), and malaria (830'000), but slightly less than the number of people who die from HIV/AIDS (1.77 million).\n\nFor every death due to violence, there are numerous nonfatal injuries. In 2008, over 16 million cases of non-fatal violence-related injuries were severe enough to require medical attention. Beyond deaths and injuries, forms of violence such as child maltreatment, intimate partner violence, and elder maltreatment have been found to be highly prevalent.\n\nIn the last 45 years, suicide rates have increased by 60% worldwide. Suicide is among the three leading causes of death among those aged 15–44 years in some countries, and the second leading cause of death in the 10–24 years age group. These figures do not include suicide attempts which are up to 20 times more frequent than completed suicide. Suicide was the 16th leading cause of death worldwide in 2004 and is projected to increase to the 12th in 2030. Although suicide rates have traditionally been highest among the male elderly, rates among young people have been increasing to such an extent that they are now the group at highest risk in a third of countries, in both developed and developing countries.\n\nRates and patterns of violent death vary by country and region. In recent years, homicide rates have been highest in developing countries in Sub-Saharan Africa and Latin America and the Caribbean and lowest in East Asia, the western Pacific, and some countries in northern Africa. Studies show a strong, inverse relationship between homicide rates and both economic development and economic equality. Poorer countries, especially those with large gaps between the rich and the poor, tend to have higher rates of homicide than wealthier countries. Homicide rates differ markedly by age and sex. Gender differences are least marked for children. For the 15 to 29 age group, male rates were nearly six times those for female rates; for the remaining age groups, male rates were from two to four times those for females.\n\nStudies in a number of countries show that, for every homicide among young people age 10 to 24, 20 to 40 other young people receive hospital treatment for a violent injury.\n\nForms of violence such as child maltreatment and intimate partner violence are highly prevalent. Approximately 20% of women and 5–10% of men report being sexually abused as children, while 25–50% of all children report being physically abused. A WHO multi-country study found that between 15–71% of women reported experiencing physical and/or sexual violence by an intimate partner at some point in their lives.\n\nWars grab headlines, but the individual risk of dying violently in an armed conflict is today relatively low—much lower than the risk of violent death in many countries that are not suffering from an armed conflict. For example, between 1976 and 2008, African Americans were victims of 329,825 homicides. Although there is a widespread perception that war is the most dangerous form of armed violence in the world, the average person living in a conflict-affected country had a risk of dying violently in the conflict of about 2.0 per 100,000 population between 2004 and 2007. This can be compared to the average world homicide rate of 7.6 per 100,000 people. This illustration highlights the value of accounting for all forms of armed violence rather than an exclusive focus on conflict related violence. Certainly, there are huge variations in the risk of dying from armed conflict at the national and subnational level, and the risk of dying violently in a conflict in specific countries remains extremely high. In Iraq, for example, the direct conflict death rate for 2004–07 was 65 per 100,000 people per year and, in Somalia, 24 per 100,000 people. This rate even reached peaks of 91 per 100,000 in Iraq in 2006 and 74 per 100,000 in Somalia in 2007.\n\nOrganized, large-scale, militaristic, or regular human-on-human violence was absent for the vast majority of the human timeline, and is first documented to have started only relatively recently in the Holocene, an epoch that began about 11,700 years ago, probably with the advent of higher population densities due to sedentism. Social anthropologist Douglas P. Fry writes that scholars are divided on the origins of this greater degree of violence—in other words, war-like behavior: \n\nJared Diamond in his books \"Guns, Germs and Steel\" and \"The Third Chimpanzee\" posits that the rise of large-scale warfare is the result of advances in technology and city-states. For instance, the rise of agriculture provided a significant increase in the number of individuals that a region could sustain over hunter-gatherer societies, allowing for development of specialized classes such as soldiers, or weapons manufacturers.\n\nIn academia, the idea of the peaceful pre-history and non-violent tribal societies gained popularity with the post-colonial perspective. The trend, starting in archaeology and spreading to anthropology reached its height in the late half of the 20th century. However, some newer research in archaeology and bioarchaeology may provide evidence that violence within and among groups is not a recent phenomenon. According to the book \"The Bioarchaeology of Violence\" violence is a behavior that is found throughout human history.\n\nLawrence H. Keeley at the University of Illinois writes in \"War Before Civilization\" that 87% of tribal societies were at war more than once per year, and that 65% of them were fighting continuously. He writes that the attrition rate of numerous close-quarter clashes, which characterize endemic warfare, produces casualty rates of up to 60%, compared to 1% of the combatants as is typical in modern warfare. \"Primitive Warfare\" of these small groups or tribes was driven by the basic need for sustenance and violent competition.\n\nFry explores Keeley's argument in depth and counters that such sources erroneously focus on the ethnography of hunters and gatherers in the present, whose culture and values have been infiltrated externally by modern civilization, rather than the actual archaeological record spanning some two million years of human existence. Fry determines that all present ethnographically studied tribal societies, \"by the very fact of having been described and published by anthropologists, have been irrevocably impacted by history and modern colonial nation states\" and that \"many have been affected by state societies for at least 5000 years.\"\n\nSteven Pinker's 2011 book, \"The Better Angels of Our Nature\", roused both acclaim and controversy by asserting that modern society is less violent than in periods of the past, whether on the short scale of decades or long scale of centuries or millennia.\n\nSteven Pinker argues that by every possible measure, every type of violence has drastically decreased since ancient and medieval times. A few centuries ago, for example, genocide was a standard practice in all kinds of warfare and was so common that historians did not even bother to mention it. According to Pinker, rape, murder, warfare and animal cruelty have all seen drastic declines in the 20th century. However, Pinker's analyses have met with much criticism; for example, Pinker himself, on his FAQ page, states that he does not include catastrophic ecological violence (including violence against wild or domesticated non-human animals or plants, or against ecosystems) or the violence of economic inequality and of coercive working conditions in his definition; he controversially regards these forms of violence as \"metaphorical\". Some critics have therefore argued that Pinker suffers from \"a reductive vision of what it means to be violent.\"\n\nBeyond deaths and injuries, highly prevalent forms of violence (such as child maltreatment and intimate partner violence) have serious lifelong non-injury health consequences. Victims may engage in high-risk behaviours such as alcohol and substance misuse and smoking, which in turn can contribute to cardiovascular disorders, cancers, depression, diabetes and HIV/AIDS, resulting in premature death Violence may beget violence. The balances of prevention, mitigation, mediation and exacerbation are complex, and vary with the underpinnings of violence.\n\nIn countries with high levels of violence, economic growth can be slowed down, personal and collective security eroded, and social development impeded. Families edging out of poverty and investing in schooling their sons and daughters can be ruined through the violent death or severe disability of the main breadwinner. Communities can be caught in poverty traps where pervasive violence and deprivation form a vicious circle that stifles economic growth. For societies, meeting the direct costs of health, criminal justice, and social welfare responses to violence diverts many billions of dollars from more constructive societal spending. The much larger indirect costs of violence due to lost productivity and lost investment in education work together to slow economic development, increase socioeconomic inequality, and erode human and social capital.\n\nAdditionally, communities with high level of violence do not provide the level of stability and predictability vital for a prospering business economy. Individuals will be less likely to invest money and effort towards growth in such unstable and violent conditions.\n\nIn 2016, the Institute for Economics and Peace, released the Economic Value of Peace report, which estimates the economic impact of violence and conflict on the global economy, the total economic impact of violence on the world economy in 2015 was estimated to be $13.6 trillion in purchasing power parity terms.\n\nReligious and political ideologies have been the cause of interpersonal violence throughout history. Ideologues often falsely accuse others of violence, such as the ancient blood libel against Jews, the medieval accusations of casting witchcraft spells against women, and modern accusations of satanic ritual abuse against day care center owners and others.\n\nBoth supporters and opponents of the 21st-century War on Terrorism regard it largely as an ideological and religious war.\n\nVittorio Bufacchi describes two different modern concepts of violence, one the \"minimalist conception\" of violence as an intentional act of excessive or destructive force, the other the \"comprehensive conception\" which includes violations of rights, including a long list of human needs.\n\nAnti-capitalists assert that capitalism is violent. They believe private property and profit survive only because police violence defends them and that capitalist economies need war to expand. They may use the term \"structural violence\" to describe the systematic ways in which a given social structure or institution kills people slowly by preventing them from meeting their basic needs, for example the deaths caused by diseases because of lack of medicine.\n\nFrantz Fanon critiqued the violence of colonialism and wrote about the counter violence of the \"colonized victims.\"\n\nThroughout history, most religions and individuals like Mahatma Gandhi have preached that humans are capable of eliminating individual violence and organizing societies through purely nonviolent means. Gandhi himself once wrote: \"A society organized and run on the basis of complete non-violence would be the purest anarchy.\" Modern political ideologies which espouse similar views include pacifist varieties of voluntarism, mutualism, anarchism and libertarianism.\n\nTerence Fretheim writing about the Old Testament:\nFor many people, ... only physical violence truly qualifies as violence. But, certainly, violence is more than killing people, unless one includes all those words and actions that kill people slowly. The effect of limitation to a “killing fields” perspective is the widespread neglect of many other forms of violence. We must insist that violence also refers to that which is psychologically destructive, that which demeans, damages, or depersonalizes others. In view of these considerations, violence may be defined as follows: any action, verbal or nonverbal, oral or written, physical or psychical, active or passive, public or private, individual or institutional/societal, human or divine, in whatever degree of intensity, that abuses, violates, injures, or kills. Some of the most pervasive and most dangerous forms of violence are those that are often hidden from view (against women and children, especially); just beneath the surface in many of our homes, churches, and communities is abuse enough to freeze the\nblood. Moreover, many forms of systemic violence often slip past our attention because they are so much a part of the infrastructure of life (e.g., racism, sexism, ageism).\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3767538", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3767538", "title": "William Stark (loyalist)", "text": "William Stark (loyalist)\n\nWilliam Stark (April 1, 1724 – August 27, 1776) was a Revolutionary War era officer. He was the brother of celebrated Revolutionary war hero John Stark.\n\nStark was born in Londonderry, New Hampshire. \nHe was with his brother John Stark, David Stinson and Amos Eastman, hunting along the Baker River, a tributary of the Pemigewasset River, on 28 April 1752, when John Stark and Amos Eastman were captured and David Stinson was killed by Abenaki Indians. William escaped in his canoe after being warned by his brother.\n\nDuring the French and Indian War Stark commanded a company of Rogers' Rangers in northern New York and Nova Scotia where he served under James Rogers. He took part in the assaults on Fortress Louisbourg in 1758, the St. John River Campaign and Battle of the Plains of Abraham in 1759. Early in the American Revolution, Stark did not join the New Hampshire Militia forces in the Siege of Boston, but the sounds of the Battle of Bunker Hill could be heard at his home in Dunbarton, New Hampshire, and he left on his swiftest horse to fight, but he arrived too late and the battle had already ended.\n\nBoth General John Sullivan and Colonel Jonathan Moulton recommended Stark to command the new regiment being raised in New Hampshire for service with the Continental Army in the invasion of Canada, but the New Hampshire General Assembly gave the command to Timothy Bedel, a former subordinate of Stark's. Stark, feeling ill-used by his home state, left for New York City, which was occupied by the British Army, and offered his services to them. The British made him a lieutenant colonel of Loyalist troops.\n\nStark's property in New Hampshire was confiscated by the revolutionary government.\n\nStark died from injuries he received in falling from his horse in Long Island, New York during the Battle of Long Island on August 27, 1776.\n\nNotes from Debbie Carr record that: \"According to an \"Abstract of Graves of Revolutionary Patriots about William Stark\" he is buried in: Lyme Plain Cemeter in Lyme, Grafton County, New Hampshire 29I\".\n\nStark was the son of Archibald and Eleanor Nichols Stark and the older brother of General John Stark, the hero of the Battle of Bennington. He married Mary Stinson on February 22, 1754 and they had seven children: William JR., John, Archibald, Mary, Stephen, Thomas, and James.\n"}
