{"id": "7585429", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7585429", "title": "1969 Northern Ireland riots", "text": "1969 Northern Ireland riots\n\nDuring 12–17 August 1969, intense political and sectarian rioting took place in Northern Ireland. There had been sporadic violence throughout the year arising out of the civil rights campaign, which was demanding an end to discrimination against Irish Catholics. Civil rights marches were repeatedly attacked by both Ulster Protestant loyalists and by the Royal Ulster Constabulary (RUC), a unionist and largely Protestant police force.\n\nThe disorder led to the Battle of the Bogside in Derry, a three-day riot in the Bogside district between the RUC and the nationalist/Catholic residents. In support of the Bogsiders, nationalists and Catholics launched protests elsewhere in Northern Ireland. Some of these led to attacks by loyalists working alongside the police. The most bloody rioting was in Belfast, where seven people were killed and hundreds more wounded. Scores of houses, most of them owned by Catholics, as well as businesses and factories were burned out. In addition, thousands of mostly Catholic families were driven from their homes. In certain areas, the RUC helped the loyalists and failed to protect Catholic areas. Events in Belfast have been viewed by some as a pogrom against the Catholic and nationalist minority.\n\nThe British Army was deployed to restore order and state control, and peace lines began to be built to separate the two sides. The events of August 1969 are widely seen as the beginning of the thirty-year conflict known as the Troubles.\nNorthern Ireland was destabilised throughout 1968 by sporadic rioting arising out of the civil disobedience campaign of the Northern Ireland Civil Rights Association (NICRA) and the police and loyalist reaction to it. The Civil Rights campaign was demanding an end to discrimination against Catholics in voting rights, housing and employment. NICRA was opposed by Ian Paisley's Ulster Constitution Defence Committee (UCDC) and other loyalist groups.\n\nDuring the summer of 1969, before the riots broke out, the International Commission of Jurists (ICJ) published a highly critical report on the British government's policy in Northern Ireland. \"The Times\" wrote that this report \"criticised the Northern Ireland Government for police brutality, religious discrimination [against Catholics] and gerrymandering in politics\". The ICJ secretary general said that laws and conditions in Northern Ireland had been cited by the South African government \"to justify their own policies of discrimination\" (see South Africa under apartheid). \"The Times\" also reported that the Ulster Special Constabulary (USC), Northern Ireland's reserve police force, was \"regarded as the militant arm of the Protestant Orange Order\". The \"Belfast Telegraph\" reported that the ICJ had added Northern Ireland to the list of states/jurisdictions \"where the protection of human rights is inadequately assured\".\n\nThe first major confrontation between civil rights activists and the Royal Ulster Constabulary (RUC) occurred in Derry on 5 October 1968, when a NICRA march was baton-charged by the RUC. Disturbed by the prospect of major violence, the Prime Minister of Northern Ireland, Terence O'Neill, promised reforms in return for a \"truce\", whereby no further demonstrations would be held.\n\nIn spite of these promises, in January 1969 People's Democracy, a radical left-wing group, staged an anti-government march from Belfast to Derry. Ulster loyalists, including off-duty policemen, attacked the marchers a number of times, most determinedly at Burntollet Bridge (about five miles (8 km) outside Londonderry). The RUC were present but did not protect the marchers. This action, and the RUC's subsequent entry into the Bogside, led to serious rioting in Derry.\n\nIn March and April 1969, there were six bomb attacks on electricity and water infrastructure targets, causing blackouts and water shortages. At first the attacks were blamed on the Irish Republican Army (IRA), but it later emerged that members of the loyalist Ulster Protestant Volunteers (UPV) and Ulster Volunteer Force (UVF) had carried out the bombings in an attempt to implicate the IRA, destabilise the Northern Ireland Government and halt the reforms promised by Terence O'Neill.\n\nThere was some movement on reform in Northern Ireland in the first half of 1969. On 23 April UUP Stormont MPs voted by 28 to 22 to introduce universal adult suffrage in local government elections in Northern Ireland at their parliamentary party meeting. The call for \"one man, one vote\" had been one of the key demands of the civil rights movement. Five days later, Terence O'Neill resigned as UUP leader and Northern Ireland Prime Minister and was replaced in both roles by James Chichester-Clark. Chichester-Clark, despite having resigned in protest over the introduction of universal suffrage in local government, announced that he would continue the reforms begun by O'Neill.\n\nStreet violence, however, continued to escalate. On 19 April there was serious rioting in the Bogside area of Derry following clashes between NICRA marchers against loyalists and the RUC. A Catholic, Samuel Devenny, was severely beaten by the RUC and later died of his injuries. On 12 July, during the Orange Order's Twelfth of July marches, there was serious rioting in Derry, Belfast and Dungiven, causing many families in Belfast to flee from their homes. Another Catholic civilian, Francis McCloskey (67), died one day after being hit on the head with batons by RUC officers during disturbances in Dungiven.\n\nSporadic violence took place throughout the rest of the year between Catholic nationalists, Protestant loyalists and the RUC, and intensified over the summer, during the Orange Order's marching season. On 2 August, there was serious rioting in Belfast, when Protestant crowds from the Crumlin Road area tried to storm the Catholic Unity Flats. They were held back with difficulty by the police.\n\nThis unrest culminated in a pitched battle in Derry from 12–15 August. The Battle of the Bogside began when violence broke out around a loyalist Apprentice Boys of Derry parade on 12 August. The RUC, in trying to disperse the nationalist crowd, drove them back into the nationalist Bogside area and then tried to enter the area themselves. The Bogside's inhabitants mobilised en masse to prevent them entering the area and a huge riot ensued between hundreds of RUC personnel and thousands of Bogsiders. On the second day of this confrontation, 13 August, the Northern Ireland Civil Rights Association appealed for demonstrations across Northern Ireland in support of the Bogside, in an effort to draw off police resources from the conflict there. When nationalists elsewhere in Northern Ireland carried out these demonstrations, severe inter-communal violence erupted between Catholics, Protestants and the police.\n\nBelfast saw by far the most intense violence of the August 1969 riots. Unlike Derry, where Catholic nationalists were a majority, in Belfast they were a minority and were also geographically divided and surrounded by Protestants and loyalists. For this reason, whereas in Derry the fighting was largely between nationalists and the RUC, in Belfast it also involved fighting between Catholics and Protestants, including exchanges of gunfire and widespread burning of homes and businesses.\n\nOn the night of 12 August, bands of Apprentice Boys arrived back in Belfast after taking part in the Derry march. They were met by Protestant pipe bands and a large crowd of supporters. They then marched to the Shankill Road waving Union Flags and singing \"The Sash My Father Wore\" (a popular loyalist ballad).\n\nAccording to journalists Patrick Bishop and Eamonn Mallie, \"Both communities were in the grip of a mounting paranoia about the other's intentions. Catholics were convinced that they were about to become victims of a Protestant pogrom; Protestants that they were on the eve of an IRA insurrection\".\n\nThe first disturbances in Northern Ireland's capital took place on the night of 13 August. Derry activists Eamonn McCann and Sean Keenan contacted Frank Gogarty of the Northern Ireland Civil Rights Association to organise demonstrations in Belfast to draw off police from Derry. Independently, Belfast IRA leader Billy McMillen ordered republicans to organise demonstrations, \"in support of Derry\".\n\nIn protest at the RUC's actions in Derry, a group of 500 nationalists, including republicans, assembled at Divis flats and staged a rally outside Springfield Road RUC station, where they handed in a petition.\n\nAfter handing in the petition, the crowd of now 1,000–2,000 people, including IRA members such as Joe McCann, began a protest march along the Falls Road and Divis Street to the Hastings Street RUC base. When they arrived, about 50 youths broke away from the march and attacked the RUC base with stones and petrol bombs. The RUC responded by sending out riot police and by driving Shorland armoured cars at the crowd. Protesters pushed burning cars onto the road to stop the RUC from entering the nationalist area.\n\nAt Leeson Street, roughly halfway between the clashes at Springfield and Hastings Street RUC bases, an RUC Humber armoured car was attacked with a hand grenade and rifle fire. At the time, it was not known who had launched the attack, but it has since emerged that it was IRA members, acting under the orders of Billy McMillen. McMillen also authorised members of the Fianna (IRA youth wing) to petrol bomb the Springfield Road RUC base. Shots were exchanged there between the IRA and RUC.\n\nIn addition to the attacks on the RUC, the car dealership of Protestant Isaac Agnew, on the Falls Road, was destroyed. The nationalist crowd also burnt a Catholic-owned pub and betting shop. At this stage, loyalist crowds gathered on the Shankill Road but did not join in the fighting.\n\nThat night, barricades went up at the interface areas between Catholic and Protestant neighbourhoods.\n\nOn 14 August, many Catholics and Protestants living on the edge of their ghettos fled their homes for safety.\n\nThe loyalists viewed the nationalist attacks of Wednesday night as an organised attempt by the IRA \"to undermine the constitutional position of Northern Ireland within the United Kingdom\".\n\nThe IRA, contrary to loyalist belief, was responding to events rather than orchestrating them. Billy McMillen called up all available IRA members for \"defensive duties\" and sent parties out to Cupar Street, Divis Street and St Comgall's School on Dover Street. They amounted to 30 IRA volunteers, 12 women, 40 youths from the Fianna and 15–20 girls. Their arms consisted of one Thompson submachine gun, one Sten submachine gun, one Lee–Enfield rifle and six handguns. A \"wee factory\" was also set up in Leeson Street to make petrol bombs. Their orders at the outset were to, \"disperse people trying to burn houses, but under no circumstances to take life\".\n\nThat evening, a nationalist crowd marched to Hastings Street RUC station, which they began to attack with stones for a second night. Loyalist crowds (wielding petrol bombs, bricks, stones, sharpened poles and protective dustbin lids) gathered at neighbouring Dover and Percy Streets. They were confronted by nationalists, who had hastily blocked their streets with barricades. Fighting broke out between the rival factions at about 11:00 pm. The RUC concentrated their efforts on the nationalist rioters, who they scattered with armoured cars. Catholics claimed that USC officers had been seen giving guns to the loyalists, while journalists reported seeing pike-wielding loyalists standing among the RUC officers.\n\nFrom the nearby rooftop of Divis Tower flats, a group of nationalists would spend the rest of the night raining missiles on the RUC below. A chain of people were passing stones and petrol bombs from the ground to the roof.\n\nLoyalists began pushing into the Falls Road area along Percy Street, Beverly Street and Dover Street. The rioters contained a rowdy gang of loyalist football supporters who had returned from a match. On Dover Street, the loyalist crowd was led by Ulster Unionist Party MP John McQuade. On Percy Street, a loyalist opened fire with a shotgun, and USC officers helped the loyalists to push back the nationalists. As they entered the nationalist ghetto, loyalists began burning Catholic homes and businesses on Percy Street, Beverly Street and Dover Street.\n\nAt the intersection of Dover and Divis Street, an IRA unit opened fire on the crowd of RUC officers and loyalists, who were trying to enter the Catholic area. Protestant Herbert Roy (26) was killed and three officers were wounded. At this point, the RUC, believing they were facing an organised IRA uprising, deployed Shorland armoured cars mounted with Browning machine guns, whose .30 calibre bullets \"tore through walls as if they were cardboard\".\n\nIn response to the RUC coming under fire at Divis Street, three Shorland armoured cars were called to the scene. The Shorlands were immediately attacked with gunfire, an explosive device and petrol bombs. The RUC believed that the shots had come from nearby Divis Tower. Gunners inside the Shorlands returned fire with their heavy machine-guns. At least thirteen Divis Tower flats were hit by high-velocity gunfire. A nine-year-old boy, Patrick Rooney, was killed by machine-gun fire as he lay in bed in one of the flats. He was the first child to be killed in the violence.\n\nAt about 01:00, not long after the shooting of Patrick Rooney, the RUC again opened fire on Divis Tower. The shots killed Hugh McCabe (20), a Catholic soldier who was 'on leave'. He and another had been on the roof of the Whitehall building (which was part of the Divis complex) and were pulling a wounded man to safety. The RUC claimed he was armed at the time and that gunfire was coming from the roof, but this was denied by many witnesses.\n\nThe Republican Labour Party MP for Belfast Central, Paddy Kennedy, who was on the scene, phoned the RUC headquarters and appealed to Northern Ireland Minister for Home Affairs, Robert Porter, for the Shorlands to be withdrawn and the shooting to stop. Porter replied that this was impossible as, \"the whole town is in rebellion\". Porter told Kennedy that Donegall Street police station was under heavy machine-gun fire. In fact, it was undisturbed throughout the riots.\n\nSome time after the killing of Hugh McCabe, some 200 loyalists attacked Catholic Divis Street and began burning houses there. A unit of six IRA volunteers in St Comgall's School shot at them with a rifle, a thompson machine-gun and some pistols; keeping the attackers back and wounding eight of them. An RUC Shorland then arrived and opened fire on the school. The IRA gunmen returned fire and managed to escape.\n\nWest of St Comgall's, loyalists broke through the nationalist barricades on Conway Street and burned two-thirds of the houses. Catholics claimed that the RUC held them back so that the loyalists could burn their homes. The Scarman Report found that RUC officers were on Conway Street when its houses were set alight, but \"failed to take effective action\". Journalist Max Hastings wrote that loyalists on Conway Street had been begging the RUC to give them their guns.\n\nRioting in Ardoyne, north of the city centre, began in the evening near Holy Cross Catholic church. Loyalists crossed over to the Catholic/nationalist side of Crumlin Road to attack Brookfield Street, Herbert Street, Butler Street and Hooker Street. These had been hastily blocked by nationalist barricades. Loyalists reportedly threw petrol bombs at Catholics \"over the heads of RUC officers\", as RUC armoured cars were used to smash through the barricades.\n\nThe IRA had little presence in Ardoyne and its defence was organised by a group of ex-servicemen armed with shotguns.\n\nThe nationalist gunmen fired the first shots at the RUC, who responded by firing machine-guns down the streets, killing two Catholic civilians (Samuel McLarnon, 27, and Michael Lynch, 28) and wounding ten more.\n\nThe morning of 15 August saw many Catholic families in central Belfast flee to Andersonstown on the western fringes of the city, to escape the rioting. According to Bishop and Mallie, \"Each side's perceptions of the other's intentions had become so warped that the Protestants believed the Catholics were clearing the decks for a further attempt at insurrection in the evening\".\n\nAt 04:30 on Friday 15 August, the Police Commissioner for Belfast asked for military aid. From the early hours of Friday, the RUC had withdrawn to its bases to defend them. The interface areas were thus left unpoliced for half a day until the British Army arrived. The Deputy Police Commissioner had assumed that the British Army would be deployed by 10:00 or 11:00. At 12:25 that afternoon, the Northern Ireland cabinet finally sent a request for military aid to the Home Office in London. However, it would be another nine hours until the British Army arrived at the Falls/Shankill interface where it was needed. Many Catholics and nationalists felt that they had been left at the mercy of the loyalists by the forces of the state who were meant to protect them.\n\nThe IRA, which had limited manpower and weaponry at the start of the riots, was also exhausted and low on ammunition. Its Belfast commander, Billy McMillen, and 19 other republicans were arrested by the RUC early on 15 August under the Special Powers Act.\n\nOn 15 August, violence continued along the Falls/Shankill interface. Father PJ Egan of Clonard Monastery recalled that a large loyalist mob moved down Cupar Street at about 15:00 and was held back by nationalist youths. Shooting began at about 15:45. Egan claimed that himself and other priests at Clonard Monastery made at least four calls to the RUC for help, but none came.\n\nA small IRA party under Billy McKee was present and had two .22 rifles at their disposal. They exchanged shots with a loyalist sniper who was firing from a house on Cupar Street, but failed to dislodge him, or to halt the burning of Catholic houses in the area. Almost all of the houses on Bombay Street were burned by the loyalists, and many others were burned on Kashmir Road and Cupar Street – the most extensive destruction of property during the riots.\n\nA loyalist sniper shot dead Gerald McAuley (15), a member of the Fianna (IRA's youth wing), as he helped people flee their homes on Bombay Street.\n\nAt about 18:30 the British Army's The Royal Regiment of Wales was deployed on the Falls Road. where they were greeted with subdued applause and cheering. However, despite pleas from locals, they did not move into the streets that were being attacked. At about 21:35 that night, the soldiers finally took up positions at the blazing interface and blocked the streets with barbed-wire barricades. Father PJ Egan recalled that the soldiers called on the loyalists to surrender but they instead began shooting and throwing petrol bombs at the soldiers. The soldiers could only fire back on the orders of an officer when life was directly threatened. The loyalists continued shooting and burned more Catholic-owned houses on Bombay Street, but were stopped by soldiers using tear gas.\n\nSoldiers were not deployed in Ardoyne, and violence continued there on Friday night. Nationalists hijacked 50 buses from the local bus depot, set them on fire and used them as makeshift barricades to block access to Ardoyne. A Protestant civilian, David Linton (48), was shot dead by nationalist gunmen at the Palmer Street/Crumlin Road junction. Several Catholic-owned houses were set alight on Brookfield Street. The Scarman Report found that an RUC armoured vehicle was nearby when Brookfield Street was set alight, but made no move.\n\nOn the evening of 16 August the British Army was deployed on Crumlin Road. Thereafter, the violence died down into what the Scarman report called, \"the quiet of exhaustion\".\n\nIn aid of the Bogsiders, the NICRA executive decided to launch protests in towns across Northern Ireland. The Scarman Report concluded that the spread of the disturbances \"owed much to a deliberate decision by some minority groups to relieve police pressure on the rioters in Londonderry\". It included the NICRA among these groups.\n\nOn the evening of 11 August a riot erupted in Dungannon after a meeting of the NICRA. This was quelled after the RUC baton charged nationalist rioters down Irish Street. There were claims of police brutality.\n\nOn 12 August, protesters attacked the RUC bases in Coalisland, Strabane and Newry.\n\nOn 13 August there were further riots in Dungannon, Coalisland, Dungiven, Armagh and Newry. In Coalisland, USC officers opened fire on rioters without orders but were immediately ordered to stop.\n\nOn 14 August riots continued in Dungannon, Armagh and Newry. In Dungannon and Armagh, USC officers again opened fire on rioters. They fired 24 shots on Armagh's Cathedral Road, killing Catholic civilian John Gallagher and wounding two others. In Newry, nationalist rioters surrounded the RUC station and attacked it with petrol bombs. In Crossmaglen on 17 August, the RUC station was attacked with petrol bombs and three hand grenades.\n\n\nThe rioting petered out by Sunday, 17 August. By the end of the riots:\n\n\nDuring July, August and September 1969, 1,820+ families had been forced to flee their homes, including\n\nCatholics generally fled across the border into the Republic of Ireland, while Protestants generally fled to east Belfast. The Irish Defence Forces set up refugee camps in the Republic – at one point the Gormanston refugee camp held 6,000 refugees from Northern Ireland.\n\nThe August riots were the most sustained violence that Northern Ireland had seen since the early 1920s. Many Protestants, loyalists and unionists believed the violence showed the true face of the Northern Ireland Catholic civil rights movement – as a front for the IRA and armed insurrection. They had mixed feelings regarding the deployment of British Army troops into Northern Ireland. Eddie Kinner, a resident of Dover Street who would later join the Ulster Volunteer Force (UVF), vividly recalled the troops marching down his street with fixed bayonets and steel helmets. He and his neighbours had felt at the time as if they were being invaded by their \"own army\". Catholics and nationalists, on the other hand, saw the riots (particularly in Belfast) as an assault on their community by loyalists and the forces of the state. The disturbances, taken together with the Battle of the Bogside, are often cited as the beginning of the Troubles. Violence escalated sharply in Northern Ireland after these events, with the formation of new paramilitary groups on either side, most notably the Provisional Irish Republican Army in December of that year. On the loyalist side, the UVF (formed in 1966) were galvanised by the August riots and in 1971, another paramilitary group, the Ulster Defence Association was founded out of a coalition of loyalist militants who had been active since August 1969. The largest of these were the Woodvale Defence Association, led by Charles Harding Smith, and the Shankill Defence Association, led by John McKeague, which had been responsible for what organisation there was of loyalist violence in the riots of August 1969. While the thousands of British Army troops sent to Northern Ireland were initially seen as a neutral force, they quickly got dragged into the street violence and by 1971 were devoting most of their attention to combatting republican paramilitaries.\n\nThe role of the IRA in the riots has long been disputed. At the time, the organisation was blamed by the Northern Ireland authorities for the violence. However, it was very badly prepared to defend nationalist areas of Belfast, having few weapons or fighters on the ground.\n\nThe Scarman Inquiry, set up by the British government to investigate the causes of the riots, concluded:Undoubtedly there was an IRA influence at work in the DCDA (Derry Citizens' Defence Association) in Londonderry, in the Ardoyne and Falls Road areas of Belfast, and in Newry. But they did not start the riots, or plan them: indeed, the evidence is that the IRA was taken by surprise and did less than many of their supporters thought they should have done.\n\nIn nationalist areas, the IRA was reportedly blamed for having failed to protect areas like Bombay Street and Ardoyne from being burned out. A Catholic priest, Fr Gillespie, reported that in Ardoyne the IRA was being derided in graffiti as \"I Ran Away\". However, IRA veterans of the time, who spoke to authors Brian Hanley and Scott Millar disputed this interpretation. One, Sean O'Hare, said, \"I never saw it written on a wall. That wasn't the attitude. People fell in behind the IRA, stood behind them 100%. Another, Sean Curry recalled, \"some people were a bit angry but most praised the people who did defend the area. They knew that if the men weren't there, the area wouldn't have been defended.\"\n\nAt the time, the IRA released a statement on 18 August, saying, it had been, \"in action in Belfast and Derry\" and \"fully equipped units had been sent to the border\". It had been, \"reluctantly compelled into action by Orange murder gangs\" and warned the British Army that if it, \"was used to the legitimate demands of the people they will have to take the consequences\" and urged the Irish government to send the Irish Army over the border.\n\nCathal Goulding, the IRA Chief of Staff, sent small units from Dublin, Cork and Kerry to border counties of Donegal, Leitrim and Monaghan, with orders to attack RUC posts in Northern Ireland and draw off pressure from Belfast and Derry. A total of 96 weapons and 12,000 rounds of ammunition were also sent to the North.\n\nNevertheless, the poor state of IRA arms and military capability in August 1969 led to a bitter split in the IRA in Belfast. According to Hanley and Millar, \"dissensions that pre-dated August [1969] had been given a powerful emotional focus\". In September 1969, a group of IRA men led by Billy McKee and Joe Cahill stated that they would no longer be taking orders from the Dublin leadership of the IRA, or from Billy McMillen (their commander in Belfast) because they had not provided enough weapons or planning to defend nationalist areas. In December 1969, they broke away to form the Provisional IRA and vowed to defend areas from attack by loyalists and the RUC. The other wing of the IRA became known as the Official IRA. Shortly after its formation, the Provisional IRA launched an offensive campaign against the state of Northern Ireland.\n\nThe actions of the RUC in the August 1969 riots are perhaps the most contentious issue arising out of the disturbances. Nationalists argue that the RUC acted in a blatantly biased manner, helping loyalists who were assaulting Catholic neighbourhoods. There were also strong suggestions that police knew when loyalist attacks were to happen and seemed to disappear from some Catholic areas shortly before loyalist mobs attacked. This perception discredited the police in the eyes of many nationalists and later allowed the IRA to effectively take over policing in nationalist areas. In his study, \"From Civil Rights to Armalites\", nationalist author Niall Ó Dochartaigh argues that the actions of the RUC and USC were the key factor in the worsening of the conflict. He wrote:From the outset, the response of the state and its forces of law and order to Catholic mobilisation was an issue capable of arousing far more anger and activism than the issues around which mobilisation had begun. Police behaviour and their interaction with loyalist protesters probably did more to politically mobilise large sections of the Catholic community than did any of the other grievances.\n\nThe Scarman Inquiry found that the RUC were \"seriously at fault\" on at least six occasions during the rioting. Specifically, they criticised the RUC's use of Browning heavy machine-guns in built-up areas, their failure to stop Protestants from burning down Catholic homes, and their withdrawal from the streets long before the Army arrived. However, the Scarman Report concluded that, \"Undoubtedly mistakes were made and certain individual officers acted wrongly on occasions. But the general case of a partisan force co-operating with Protestant crowds to attack Catholic people is devoid of substance, and we reject it utterly\". The report argued that the RUC were under-strength, poorly led and that their conduct in the riots was explained by their perception that they were dealing with a co-ordinated IRA uprising. They pointed to the RUC's dispersal of loyalist rioters in Belfast on 2–4 August in support of the force's impartiality.\n\nOf the B-Specials (Ulster Special Constabulary or USC), the Scarman Report said:There were grave objections, well understood by those in authority, to the use of the USC in communal disturbances. In 1969 the USC contained no Catholics but was a force drawn from the Protestant section of the community. Totally distrusted by the Catholics, who saw them as the strong arm of the Protestant ascendancy, they could not show themselves in a Catholic area without heightening tension. Moreover they were neither trained nor equipped for riot control duty. The report found that the Specials had fired on Catholic demonstrators in Dungiven, Coalisland, Dungannon and Armagh, causing casualties, which, \"was a reckless and irresponsible thing to do\". It found that USC officers had, on occasion, sided with loyalist mobs. There were reports that USC officers were spotted hiding among loyalist mobs, using coats to hide their uniforms. Nevertheless, the Scarman Report concluded, \"there are no grounds for singling out mobilised USC as being guilty of misconduct\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "43421829", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43421829", "title": "Algorithmic regulation", "text": "Algorithmic regulation\n\nAlgorithmic regulation is an alternative form of government where the advantages and usages of computer algorithms are applied to regulations and law enforcement. Written laws are not replaced but stressed to test its efficiency. It was coined by Tim O'Reilly, Founder and CEO of O'Reilly Media Inc. \n\nSometimes the \"rules\" aren't really even rules. Gordon Bruce, the former CIO of the city of Honolulu, explained to me that when he entered government from the private sector and tried to make changes, he was told, \"That's against the law.\" His reply was \"OK. Show me the law.\" \"Well, it isn't really a law. It's a regulation.\" \"OK. Show me the regulation.\" \"Well, it isn't really a regulation. It's a policy that was put in place by Mr. Somebody twenty years ago.\" \"Great. We can change that!\"\" \n\nLaws should specify goals, rights, outcomes, authorities, and limits. If specified broadly, those laws can stand the test of time.\n\nRegulations, which specify how to execute those laws in much more detail, should be regarded in much the same way that programmers regard their code and algorithms, that is, as a constantly updated toolset to achieve the outcomes specified in the laws.\n\nIt's time for government to enter the age of big data. Algorithmic regulation is an idea whose time has come.\nAlgorithmic regulation is supposed to be a system of governance where more exact data collected from citizens via their smart devices and computers are used for more efficiency in organizing human life as a collective.\n"}
{"id": "32957781", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32957781", "title": "Anti-PowerPoint Party", "text": "Anti-PowerPoint Party\n\nThe Anti PowerPoint Party (APPP) is a Swiss political party dedicated to decreasing professional use of Microsoft PowerPoint and other presentation software, which the party claims \"causes national-economic damage amounting to 2.1 billion CHF\" and lowers the quality of a presentation in \"95 % of the cases\". The party advocates flip charts as an alternative to presentation software.\n\nAPPP was formed by former software engineer Matthias Poehm ahead of the 2011 federal elections in Switzerland. The party's goal is to become the fourth largest party in Switzerland in terms of membership, and to initiate a national \"referendum in order to seek for a prohibition of PowerPoint [and other presentation software] during presentations.\" APPP states that it does not support prohibition, but will use a referendum to raise awareness about the cause.\n"}
{"id": "10275480", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10275480", "title": "Arvid Gustavsson Sparre", "text": "Arvid Gustavsson Sparre\n\nArvid Gustavsson Sparre, born 1245 in Vik, Balingsta and died in 1317 (at Nyköping Banquet). He was Lord of Ekholmen in Veckholm, Uppland, Sweden. He had in his Coat of Arms, a spar, which has retrospectively dubbed all the family named in genealogies as Sparre of Vik. He was the councillor of Eric, Duke of Södermanland and Valdemar of Finland.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3383122", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3383122", "title": "Cherish Life Queensland", "text": "Cherish Life Queensland\n\nCherish Life Queensland (originally known as Queensland Right to Life) is a non-denominational, non-party political pro-life organisation founded in Brisbane in 1970, before the emergence of similar organisations in other Australian states. CLQ is the state affiliate for the Federation of Right to Life Associations. Another pro-life group with a name similar to CLQ's original name, Right to Life Australia also operates in Queensland, but is not a Federation of RTL groups' affiliate and prefers a direct action approach to opposing abortion and euthanasia.\n\nCherish Life Queensland Inc/Queensland Right to Life has been funded by donation only since its inception in 1970. The association was formed by a group of concerned conservative Christian women who saw what was happening in America in regards to the push for the legalisation of abortion and wanted to prevent its legalisation in their state. The Queensland Supreme Court decision \"R v Bayliss\" in 1986 ruled that health exceptions to the state's abortion ban were constitutional.\n\nAt the General Meeting on 21 June 2008, the members present voted for a change of name from \"Queensland Right to Life\" to \"Cherish Life Queensland\", which they believed would more accurately represent their opposition to embryonic stem cell research and to assisted suicide as well as to abortion.\n\n"}
{"id": "33924957", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33924957", "title": "Christmas in Scotland", "text": "Christmas in Scotland\n\nPrior to the Reformation of 1560, Christmas in Scotland, then called Yule (alternative spellings include Yhoill, Yuil, Ȝule and Ȝoull; see Yogh), was celebrated in a similar fashion to the rest of Catholic Europe. Calderwood recorded that in 1545, a few months before his murder, Cardinal Beaton had \"passed over the Christmasse dayes with games and feasting\". However, the Reformation transformed attitudes to traditional Christian feasting days, including Christmas, and led in practice to the abolition of festival days and other church holidays; the Kirk and the state being closely linked in Scotland during the Late Middle Ages and the Early Modern period.\n\nA 1640 Act of the Parliament of Scotland abolished the \"Yule vacation and all observation thereof in time coming\".\n\nTwo Acts of the Estates of Parliament—Act discharging the Yule vacance (2 June 1640) and Act dischargeing the Yule vacance (15 April 1690)— abolished the Yule Vacance (Christmas recess).\n\nThe first Act was partly repealed in 1686, when Episcopalianism was briefly in ascendancy within the Kirk.\n\nThe second Act was partly repealed in 1712, by the Yule Vacance Act 1711 of the Westminster parliament.\n\nThe 1640 Act stated (in Middle Scots):\n\n\nRobert Jamieson recorded the opinion of an English clergyman regarding the post-reformation suppression of Christmas:\n\"The ministers of Scotland, in contempt of the holy-day observed by England, cause their wives and servants to spin in open sight of the people upon Yule day, and their affectionate auditors constrain their servants to yoke their plough on Yule day, in contempt of Christ's nativity. Which our Lord has not left unpunished, for their oxen ran wud, and brak their necks and lamed some ploughmen, which is notoriously known in some parts of Scotland.\"\n\nChristmas in Scotland was traditionally observed very quietly, because the Church of Scotland – a Presbyterian church – for various reasons never placed much emphasis on the Christmas festival.\n\nChristmas Day only became a public holiday in 1958, and Boxing Day in 1974. The New Year's Eve festivity, Hogmanay, was by far the largest celebration in Scotland. The gift-giving, public holidays and feasting associated with mid-winter were traditionally held between 11 December and 6 January. However, since the 1980s, the fading of the Church's influence and the increased influences from the rest of the UK and elsewhere, Christmas and its related festivities are now nearly on a par with Hogmanay and \"Ne'erday\". Edinburgh, Glasgow and other cities now have traditional German Christmas market from late November until Christmas Eve.\n\n"}
{"id": "22760051", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22760051", "title": "Council for Maintaining the Occupations", "text": "Council for Maintaining the Occupations\n\nThe Council for Maintaining the Occupations (), or CMDO, was a revolutionary committee formed during the May 1968 events in France originating in the Sorbonne. The council favored the continuation of wildcat general strikes and factory occupations across France, maintaining them through directly democratic workers' councils. Within the revolutionary movement, it opposed the influence of major trade unions and the French Communist Party who intended to contain the revolt and compromise with General Charles de Gaulle.\n\nThe council implemented a policy of equal representation for its participants. It was described by Situationist René Viénet as \"essentially an uninterrupted general assembly, deliberating day and night. No faction or private meetings ever existed outside the common debate.\" It was formed on the evening of May 17, by supporters of the Sorbonne Occupation Committee.\n\n"}
{"id": "23451553", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23451553", "title": "David B. Rivkin", "text": "David B. Rivkin\n\nDavid B. Rivkin, Jr. (born 1956) is a conservative American attorney, political writer, and media commentator on matters of constitutional and international law, as well as foreign and defense policy. Rivkin has gained national recognition as a representative of conservative viewpoints, frequently testifying before congressional committees, and appearing as an analyst and commentator on a variety of television and radio stations. He is a Visiting Fellow at the Center for the National Interest, and a recipient of the U.S. Naval Proceedings Annual Alfred Thayer Mahan Award for the best maritime affairs article. He is a fellow at the Foundation for Defense of Democracies, and is a former member of the Sub-Commission on the Promotion and Protection of Human Rights of the United Nations Commission on Human Rights.\n\nRivkin is a former U.S. government official, having served under Presidents Ronald Reagan and George H. W. Bush. In 2010, Rivkin took on his highest-profile case to date when he agreed to represent a multi-state lawsuit—currently consisting of 26 state attorneys general against health care reform legislation signed into law by President Barack Obama in March. The lawsuit, filed in the Federal Court's Northern District of Florida, argues the legislation is an \"illegal expansion of Congress' regulation of interstate commerce and unfairly penalizes uninsured people who refuse to buy into the program\". Rivkin represented former Defense Secretary Donald Rumsfeld in a lawsuit by José Padilla, who said he was tortured while in custody; he also helped \"craft legal strategy for the State of Texas as it fights federal proposals on health care and environmental regulation\".\n\nIn May 2011, Rivkin was awarded a Burton Award for Legal Achievement for a \"Washington Post\" article he wrote with Lee A. Casey in February 2010 titled \"Why the 'Don't ask, don't tell' policy is doomed\".\n\nRivkin was born in the small village of Psov in the former Soviet Union, and lived there during the first decade of his life. In 2004, he stated that he knew what it must have been like to live under the rule of Saddam Hussein in Iraq:\n\nAfter moving to the United States with his family, Rivkin earned a Bachelor of Science degree from the Edmund A. Walsh School of Foreign Service at Georgetown University, and a Master of Arts degree in Soviet Affairs with high honors also from Georgetown University. In 1985, he received a Juris Doctor degree from Columbia Law School.\n\nRivkin held a variety of legal and policy positions throughout the administrations of Republican Presidents Ronald Reagan and George H. W. Bush. He served as Legal Advisor to the Counsel to then President Reagan and as Deputy Director of the Office of Policy Development (OPD) for the United States Department of Justice. While at OPD, he worked on a wide variety of constitutional, domestic, and international issues, including judicial selection, legal policy, immigration and asylum matters, and intelligence oversight. He also handled the development and implementation of President Bush's de-regulatory initiatives, carried out from 1991 to 1992, which focused on a review of existing federal structures in an attempt to make them more cost-effective.\n\nFrom 1990 to 1991, Rivkin was the Associate General Counsel of the United States Department of Energy. In this post he was responsible for developing and implementing national and international environmental and energy strategies. He also helped in the passing of the Clean Air Act (1990) and FERC Order 636, known as the Restructuring Rule, designed to allow more efficient use of the interstate natural gas transmission system by fundamentally changing the way pipeline companies conduct business. During his term, national energy markets were deregulated.\n\nAfter serving as a legal clerk and associate for several law firms, Rivkin joined Hunton & Williams and was promoted to partner. There his practice concentrated on international public law and litigation before the International Court of Justice and on policy advocacy on a wide range of international and domestic issues, including treaty implementation, multilateral and unilateral sanctions, corporate law, environmental policy, and energy issues. Rivkin left the firm in December 1999 to join Baker Hostetler, where he is a partner in the Washington, D.C. office. Rivkin represented foreign governments and corporate entities on legal, political, economic, military, and public relations matters and has worked on bilateral and multilateral foreign policy issues with Congress and various Executive Branch entities. Rivkin is also a member of the District of Columbia Bar and the Council on Foreign Relations.\n\nRivkin became lead outside counsel in the lawsuit filed by multiple state attorneys general seeking to nullify the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act. The lawsuit was filed on March 23, 2010, hours after the law was signed by President Barack Obama, in United States District Court for the Northern District of Florida in Pensacola. In a \"Wall Street journal\" article, Rivkin called the law \"in its design, the most profoundly unconstitutional statute in American history; in its execution, one of the most incompetent ones\".\n\nOn January 31, 2011, Federal Judge Roger Vinson ruled in favor of the 26 state plaintiffs in the case and found the individual mandate unconstitutional. But, unlike the December ruling from a federal judge in Virginia, Vinson ruled that because there was no severability clause in the original legislation, the entire law must be declared void; \"The act, like a defectively designed watch, needs to be redesigned and reconstructed by the watchmaker\", he wrote in the decision.\n\nRivkin immediately told media that the ruling meant the 26 states challenging the law must halt implementation of pieces that apply to the state plaintiffs and certain small businesses, since the National Federation of Independent Businesses was also involved in the suit; but the federal government said it would continue to implement the law and appeal the case.\n\nFollowing this success, Rivkin's representation sent out a press release claiming to be the victim of a denial of service \"cyberattack\".\n\nRivkin has testified numerous times in front of the U.S. Congress on such matters as the judicial nomination of Justice Sotomayor, the consequences of prolonged detention at Guantánamo Bay, and the clemency controversy surrounding Lewis (\"Scooter\") Libby's 2007 conviction on obstruction justice.\n\nHe appears as a guest analyst on TV and radio programs, including CNN, MSNBC, NBC, ABC, CBS, FOX News, NPR, PBS, \"The Laura Ingraham Show\", \"Al Jazeera\", the BBC, and others.\n\nRivkin has authored or co-authored more than 360 papers, articles, op-eds, book reviews, and book chapters on issues such as international relations, legal matters, constitutional debates, national defense, foreign policy, and environmental and energy policy. During the late 1980s, he addressed the Iran-Contra Affair. After the election of Bill Clinton, Rivkin wrote concerning healthcare reform and the Constitution.\n\nMedia and periodicals that have published Rivkin's works include the \"Wall Street Journal\", the \"National Review\", the \"Washington Post\", the \"New York Times\", the \"Washington Times\", the Heritage Foundation, and the \"Harvard Journal of Law and Public Policy\".\n\nDuring the War on Terrorism, which began after September 11, 2001, Rivkin wrote articles on the international law of armed conflict with which the issues of jus ad bellum, also known as the accepted laws of war for which the Geneva Convention are often associated. Other recent topics include the use of military commissions, presidential powers during wartime, civil litigation for Guantánamo Bay detainees, and global warming.\n\nRivkin and his frequent coauthor, Lee Casey, questioned the constitutionality of government-run healthcare. First raising the issue of privacy, Rivkin went on to question the constitutionality of Congressional legislation requiring all U.S. citizens to purchase health insurance. In December 2009, Rivkin and Casey raised the issues of federal aggrandizement and judicial aggrandizement as dangers to the vertical separation of powers in the U.S. Constitution, and suggested a limited constitutional convention to limit the incursion of federal and judicial powers into the powers of the states.\n\nIn a May 12, 2011 editorial in the\" Wall Street Journal\", Rivkin addressed the runaway national debt problem by calling on Congress to reclaim its responsibility for issuing new U.S. debt: \"Congress should promptly increase the debt ceiling, but with one key caveat: The increase can be used only for borrowing to service existing obligations\".\n\nRivkin has spoken out frequently against Attorney General Eric Holder and the Justice Department's handling of terrorist suspects such as José Padilla, arguing that \"trying them in federal civilian court is a mistake on many levels\" and that \"if the 'law of war' architecture is undermined here, U.S. forces and civilian officials will be exposed to criminal liability for their use of force [in other countries]\".\n\nIn March 2011, Rivkin wrote in several editorials that, according to the U.S. Constitution, President Barack Obama did not need approval from Congress to launch attacks in Libya, writing that these \"essentially punitive operations now underway against Muammar Gaddafi would not have required a declaration of war at the time the Constitution was adopted, and do not require such action today\".\n\n"}
{"id": "301477", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=301477", "title": "Department for Environment, Food and Rural Affairs", "text": "Department for Environment, Food and Rural Affairs\n\nThe Department for Environment, Food and Rural Affairs (or, as an acronym, DEFRA) is the government department responsible for environmental protection, food production and standards, agriculture, fisheries and rural communities in the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland. Concordats set out agreed frameworks for co operation, between it and the Scottish Government, Welsh Government and Northern Ireland Executive, which have devolved responsibilities for these matters in their respective nations. \n\nDefra also leads for Britain at the EU on agricultural, fisheries and environment matters and in other international negotiations on sustainable development and climate change, although a new Department of Energy and Climate Change was created on 3 October 2008 to take over the last responsibility.\n\nIt was formed in June 2001, under the leadership of Margaret Beckett, when the Ministry of Agriculture, Fisheries and Food (MAFF) was merged with part of the Department of Environment, Transport and the Regions (DETR) and with a small part of the Home Office. \n\nThe department was created after the perceived failure of MAFF, to deal adequately with an outbreak of Foot and Mouth disease. The department had about 9,000 core personnel, . The department's main building is Nobel House on Smith Square, SW1.\n\nIn October 2008, the climate team at Defra was merged with the energy team from the Department for Business Enterprise and Regulatory Reform (BERR), to create the Department of Energy and Climate Change, then headed by Ed Miliband.\n\nThe Defra Ministers are as follows:\n\nThe Permanent Secretary is Clare Moriarty.\n\nShadow ministers portfolios can differ from government departments therefore overlap.\n\nDefra is responsible for British Government policy in the following areas\n\n\nSome policies apply to England alone due to devolution, while others are not devolved and therefore apply to Britain as a whole.\n\nThe department's executive agencies are:\n\nThe department's key delivery partners are:\nA full list of departmental delivery and public bodies may be found on the Defra website.\n\nPolicies for environment, food and rural affairs are delivered in the regions by Defra's executive agencies and delivery bodies, in particular Natural England, the Rural Payments Agency, Animal Health and the Marine Management Organisation.\n\nDefra provides grant aid to the following flood and coastal erosion risk management operating authorities:\n\nDefra's overarching aim is sustainable development, which is defined as \"development which enables all people throughout the world to satisfy their basic needs and enjoy a better quality of life without compromising the quality of life of future generations.\" The Secretary of State wrote in a letter to the Prime Minister that he saw Defra’s mission as enabling a move toward what the World Wide Fund for Nature (WWF) has called \"one planet living\".\n\nUnder this overarching aim, Defra has five strategic priorities:\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "21603487", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21603487", "title": "Empire State Pride Agenda", "text": "Empire State Pride Agenda\n\nThe Empire State Pride Agenda (ESPA) was a statewide political advocacy organization in New York that advocated for lesbian, gay, bisexual, and transgender (LGBT) rights, including same-sex marriage. ESPA has since disbanded after an executive order was passed by Governor Andrew Cuomo which protects the rights of transgender citizens as long as future governors uphold the law. ESPA was founded in 1990 through the merger of the New York State Gay and Lesbian Lobby and the Friends and Advocates for Individual Rights. ESPA was considered the leading gay political organization in the State of New York before it disbanded. As of 2005, ESPA was the largest statewide lesbian and gay political advocacy and civil rights organization in the United States.\n\nESPA played a leading role in the late 1980s and early 1990s, along with groups representing other minorities, in surveying and consulting on a new districting process for the City Council of New York City; according to some, these efforts resulted in the most diverse City Council since the 1930s. Dick Dadey served as first executive director from 1991-1997.\n\nESPA has been the driving force in negotiating New York City's comprehensive domestic partnership law, passing a statewide hate crimes law, repealing a 150-year-old consensual sodomy statute, and enacting local non-discrimination laws and policies in Buffalo, Ithaca, Nassau County, and Westchester County. Each year, ESPA outlines legislative, electoral and organizing priorities for the state.\n\nIn 2012, ESPA received press attention when, approaching the end of Ross D. Levi's second year as executive director, it assigned his duties to his deputy Lynn Faria pending a long-term replacement.\n\nESPA was a member of the Equality Federation.\n\nIn June 1994, ESPA, along with the New York City chapter of the Gay and Lesbian Alliance Against Defamation, produced a full-page advertisement in \"The New York Times\" to counteract the \"religious right\" portrayal of us as \"a scary specter\"; more than 1,000 gay and lesbian New Yorkers came out about their non-heterosexuality.\n\nIn 1994, ESPA joined a network of liberal and progressive groups to counteract the \"right-wing\" Christian Right's \"stealth strategy\" to getting people elected to local school boards by \"hiding their opposition to critical thinking, bilingual programs, multicultural education, and ultimately to public schooling itself\". In 1996, ESPA joined the Freedom to Marry Coalition (Marriage Project). In 1997, ESPA helped educate advocates on how to push for hate-crimes legislation.\n\nIn 1998, ESPA launched \"Pride in the Pulpit,\" a program to combat the use of religion to advance anti-LGBT amendments and legislation; in 2005, more than 450 non-LGBT religious leaders participated.\n\nIn 1999, ESPA Co-Chair Jeff Soref was named a part of \"Out\" magazine's \"Out 100\" for his work with ESPA and his efforts to push for a rule change to provide gays and lesbians more representation at the 2000 convention of the Democratic National Committee. In the early 2000s, ESPA, together with a local Gay, Lesbian and Straight Education Network, convened the Dignity for All Students Coalition, bringing fifty community groups together to work on anti-bullying and anti-discrimination legislation.\n\nESPA was a strong advocate for a 2000 hate crimes law that provided enhanced criminal penalties for crimes motivated by hatred on the basis of sexual orientation.\n\nIn 2001 and 2002, ESPA worked to ensure that same-sex partners of September 11 attack victims received equal financial assistance, as many same-sex partners of those who perished in the attacks were initially denied any compensation. In October 2002, Governor George Pataki decreed that same-sex partners as well as unmarried partners of survivors would receive benefits equal to married partners, and on a national level, Senator Hillary Clinton called for coverage for those affected by the Pennsylvania and Washington D.C. attacks. Three bills that passed in 2002—each of which was advocated by ESPA—provided various benefits and protections to the surviving same-sex partners of individuals who perished in the September 11 attacks.\n\nIn December 2001, ESPA executive director Matt Foreman was recognized by U.S. Representative Jerrold Nadler for his work with ESPA since 1997. Foreman served as executive director of ESPA from 1997 to 2003, when he departed to become executive director of the National Gay and Lesbian Task Force. In 2002, the New York State legislature passed Sexual Orientation Non-Discrimination Act (SONDA) with ESPA being the \"major lobbying muscle\". SONDA was criticized for not covering transgender individuals, but observers felt that the inclusion of gender identity as a protected category would make it impossible to pass the bill (which had first been introduced in 1971). In April 2004 was named as the new executive director. SONDA was passed in December 2002, not covering transgender people but \"laying the foundation for winning full equality\" according to Foreman. In October 2003, Carmen Vázquez, formerly of LGBT Community Center of NYC, was appointed deputy executive director of ESPA.\n\nIn June 2004, the annual \"Equality at Work\" awards honoring companies and individuals that work to create an \"inclusive workspace that respects, welcomes and supports LGBT professionals\" were launched. The 2005 recipients were American Express, \"The Village Voice\", Michael Fishman, president of 32BJ SEIU, and James Berg, president of the Realty Advisory Board on Labor Relations. The 2006 recipients were Merrill Lynch, Kodak, and Kym Ward Gaffney at Price Waterhouse Coopers.\n\nESPA helped pass an August 2004 law guaranteeing same-sex partners hospital visitation rights identical to those enjoyed by spouses and next-of-kin when caring for loved ones in hospitals and other facilities.\n\nIn October 2004, ESPA held its 13th Annual Fall Dinner with keynote speaker San Francisco mayor Gavin Newsom; the Fall Dinner benefited the Empire State Pride Agenda Foundation, which is the non-partisan, 501(c)(3) research, education and advocacy arm of the organization. The ESPA Foundation, in partnership with the New York State Lesbian, Gay, Bisexual and Transgender Health and Human Services Network, \"developed and utilized education, advocacy and community organizing strategies to overcome the barriers of political and cultural opposition, inadequate knowledge about the health care needs of the community, and heterocentric models of healthcare\" to obtain governmental health and wellness funds targeted for LGBT health needs. The effort resulted in $10.7 million in state funding for non-HIV/AIDS LGBT service needs, including primary care, preventative health needs, crime victim assistance, and support services for the state and for youth, seniors and people of color.\n\nIn 2005, ESPA helped to pass legislation providing same-sex partners the same authority as spouses when making decisions regarding the burial of a deceased partner.\n\nIn October 2005, ESPA joined the Lambda Legal Defense Fund and a coalition of anti-censorship groups to oppose a new zoning law that would shut down an estimated 149 adult-oriented bookstores, theaters and clubs including all of the businesses on Christopher Street.\n\nIn 2007, same-sex marriage legislation passed the New York State Assembly by a vote of 85-61. ESPA has been a leading supporter of same-sex marriage legislation in New York.\n\nIn 2008, the ESPA-supported Gender Expression Nondiscrimination Act passed the New York State Assembly for the first time.\n\nOn December 2, 2009, ESPA-supported same-sex marriage legislation failed in the New York State Senate by a vote of 24-38.\n\nOn May 14, 2010, a \"The New York Times\" blog reported that ESPA was \"poised to select\" Brian Ellner as its next executive director. It was later reported that Ellner's past affiliation with Michael Bloomberg had been criticized by some ESPA supporters; for whatever reason, he withdrew his name from consideration, and on the 22nd ESPA instead announced appointing Ross D. Levi, an attorney, to the position. Levi had been a legislative assistant at the New York State Legislature starting in 1997 and part of ESPA's Albany staff since before 2000, and since 2006 had held its title as Director of Public Policy & Education.\n\nOn July 2, another reporter reported (on the same NYT blog) Ellner's appointment to head the \"Campaign for New York Marriage\", financed by Human Rights Campaign.\n\nOn April 20, 2011, New Yorkers United for Marriage was instituted as an alliance among ESPA, Marriage Equality New York, the Human Rights Campaign, and Freedom to Marry.\n\nA March 6, 2012, report stated that Levi had been \"fired\" the preceding day. The \"Times\" credited that as the first report, and suggested that ESPA board members felt Human Rights Campaign's work under Ellner had caught attention to the detriment of ESPA's role.\n\nAt the ESPA Fall Dinner held on October 22, 2009, then-Executive Director Alan Van Capelle publicly expressed great frustration that state senators supported by the group—some of whom Van Capelle mentioned by name—had not yet passed legislation on same-sex marriage. At a “couldn’t-be-higher stakes” November 2010 meeting with Governor David Paterson and other elected officials who supported the same-sex marriage bill, Senate Democratic Leader John Sampson and Senator Jeff Klein “did not mince words in letting Van Capelle know they were upset by” his critical comments at the Fall Dinner.\n\nESPA was regarded as the driving force behind a failed December 2009 Senate vote on same-sex marriage legislation. In late 2010, Governor David Paterson was asked what would have to occur in order for same-sex marriage to be legalized in New York. Paterson responded, \"Get rid of the lobbyists,\" and added that same-sex marriage lobbyists had “literally forced” a Senate vote prematurely in December 2009.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "38755621", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38755621", "title": "Feminine beauty ideal", "text": "Feminine beauty ideal\n\nThe feminine beauty ideal is \"the socially constructed notion that physical attractiveness is one of women's most important assets, and something all women should strive to achieve and maintain\". Feminine beauty ideals are rooted in heteronormative beliefs, and heavily influence women of all sexual orientations. The feminine beauty ideal, which also includes female body shape, varies from culture to culture. Pressure to conform to a certain definition of \"beautiful\" can have drastic psychological effects. These ideals have been correlated with depression, eating disorders, and low self-esteem, starting from an adolescent age and continuing into adulthood.\n\nThe feminine beauty ideal is portrayed in many children's fairy tales. It has been common in the Brothers Grimm fairy tales for physical attractiveness in female characters to be rewarded. In those fairy tales, \"beauty is often associated with being white, economically privileged, and virtuous.\"\n\nThe Brothers Grimm fairy tales usually involve a beautiful heroine. In the story \"Snow White\", the protagonist Snow White is described as being \"white as snow, as red as blood, and as black as ebony wood\" and \"as beautiful as the light of day.\" This fairy tale is defining beauty as being Caucasian with rosy cheeks and black hair. On the other hand, the antagonist of Brothers Grimm fairy tales is frequently described as ugly, relating beauty with goodness and ugliness with evil. Ultimately, this correlation puts an emphasis on the virtue of being beautiful, as defined by fairy tales.\n\nStarting almost 100 years after the Grimm Brothers wrote their fairy tales, the Walt Disney Animation Studios adapted these tales into animated feature films. About 40 percent of Disney films made from 1937-2000 had \"only dominant cultural themes portrayed.\" Because the majority of characters are white, \"the expectation [is] that all people are or should be like this.\" Other common traits of female Disney characters are thin bodies with impossible bodily proportions, long, flowing hair, and large round eyes. The constant emphasis on female beauty and what constitutes as being beautiful contributes to the overall feminine beauty ideal.\n\nMass media is one of the most powerful tools for young girls and women to learn and also understand feminine beauty ideals. As mass media develops, the way people see feminine beauty ideals changes, as does how females view themselves. \"The average teen girl gets about 180 minutes of media exposure daily and only about 10 minutes of parental interaction a day,\" says Renee Hobbs, EdD, associate professor of communications at Temple University. In most advertisements, female models are typically homogeneous in appearance. \"Girls today are swamped by [ultra-thin] ideals not only in the form of dolls but also in comics, cartoons, TV, and advertising along with all the associated merchandising.\" In addition to this, the feminine beauty ideal in the mass media is manipulated by technology. Images of women can be virtually manipulated creating an ideal that is not only rare but also nonexistent. The \"Encyclopedia of Gender in the Media\" states that \"the postproduction techniques of airbrushing and computer-generated modifications 'perfect' the beauty myth by removing any remaining blemishes or imperfections visible to the eye.\" Advertisements for products \"such as diets, cosmetics, and exercise gear [help] the media construct a dream world of hopes and high standards that incorporates the glorification of slenderness and weight loss.\"\n\nWith a focus on an ideal physical appearance, the feminine beauty ideal distracts from female competency by prioritizing and valuing superficial characteristics related to beauty and appearance. When physical beauty is idealized and featured in the media, it reduces women to sexualized objects. This creates the message across mass media that one's body is inadequate apart from sex appeal and connects concepts of beauty and sex.\n\nPerfection is achieved by celebrities through photoshopped images that hide every blemish or flaw while also editing body parts to create the \"ideal\" hourglass body type. \"The Dove Beauty and Confidence Report\" interviewed 10,500 females across thirteen countries and found that women's confidence in their body image is steadily declining - regardless of age or geographic location. Despite these findings, there is a strong desire to fight existing beauty ideals. In fact, 71% of women and 67% of girls want the media to do a better job of portraying different types of women. Studies done by Dove reveal low self esteem impacts women and girls' ability to release their true potential. 85% of women and 79% of girls admit they opt out of important life activities when they do not feel confident in the way they look. More than half of women (69%) and girls (65%) allude to pressure from the media and advertisements to become the world's version of beautiful, which is a driving force of appearance anxiety. Studies done by Dove have also revealed the following statistics: \"4% of women consider themselves beautiful, 11% of girls globally are comfortable with describing themselves as beautiful, 72% of girls feel pressure to be beautiful, 80% of women agree that every woman has something about her that is beautiful, but do not see their own beauty, and that 54% of women agree that when it comes to how they look, they are their own worst beauty critic.\"\n\nAn online space such as Instagram that is based on interactions through pictures creates a focus on one’s physical appearance. According to evidence gathered from a study focusing on general Instagram use in young women, researchers suggest Instagram usage was positively correlated with women’s self-objectification. This same study also considered the effect of Instagram on the internalization of the Western beauty ideal for women, and the evidence gathered in the study agrees with the idea that Instagram use encourages women to internalize the societal beauty ideal of Western culture. Because users have the opportunity to shape and edit their photographs before sharing them, they can force them to adhere to the beauty ideal. Viewing these carefully selected pictures shows the extent to which women internalize the Western beauty ideal. In addition to researching the effects of general Instagram use, the study also researched the effects of \"fitspiration\" Instagram pages on young women's body image. “Fitspiration” pages aim to motivate the viewer through images of healthy eating and exercising. Although these pages aim to be a positive way to promote a healthy lifestyle, they are also appearance-based and contain images of toned and skinny women. According to the study, there is a positive correlation to young women’s viewing \"fitspiration\" pages and a negative body image.\n\nA case study conducted about Instagram use and the Western feminine beauty ideal focused on the specific account @effyourbeautystandards, a body-positive Instagram page created by feminist plus-size model Tessa Holliday. Through her page, Holliday instructed women to share pictures of themselves on Instagram with the hashtag #effyourbeautystandards. Images posted with this hashtag would be selected by the account administrators and posted to the @effyourbeauutystandards page. The evidence gathered in this case study suggested that while these selected pictures attempt to take an intersectional approach to the content women view on social media, they may still have an effect on how women view their bodies.\n\nFeminine beauty ideals have shown correlations to many psychological disorders, including lowered self-esteem and eating disorders. Western cultural standards of beauty and attractiveness promote unhealthy and unattainable body ideals that motivate women to seek perfection. Since 1972, there has been a dramatic increase in the percentage of women in the United States who experience dissatisfaction with their bodies. Research indicates that women's exposure to television, even for a very short time, can experience decreased mood and self-esteem. It has been consistently found that perceived appearance is the single strongest predictor of global self-esteem among young adults. Awareness of the ideal female shape is linked to increasingly negative self-esteem. Through peer interaction and an environment of continual comparison to those portrayed in the media, women are often made to feel inadequate, and thus their self-esteem can decrease from their negative self-image. A negative body image can result in adverse psychosocial consequences, including depression, poor self-esteem, and diminished quality of life.\n\nThere is significant pressure for girls to conform to feminine beauty ideals, and, since thinness is prized as feminine, many women feel dissatisfied with their body shape. Body dissatisfaction has been found to be a precursor to serious psychological problems such as depression, social anxiety, and eating disorders. The feminine beauty ideal has influenced women, particularly younger women, to partake in extreme measures. Some of these extreme measures include limiting their food intake, and participating in excessive physical activity to try to achieve what is considered the \"ideal beauty standards\". One aspect of the feminine beauty ideal includes having a thin waist, which is causing women to participate in these alarming behaviors. When trying to achieve these impossible standards, these dangerous practices are put into place. These practices can eventually lead to the woman developing eating disorders such as anorexia and bulimia. As achieving the \"beauty ideal\" becomes a more popular phenomenon, these eating disorders are becoming more prevalent, especially in young women. Researchers have found that magazine advertisements promoting dieting and thinness are far more prevalent in women's magazine than in men's magazine, and that female television characters are far more likely to be thin than male characters. Eating disorders stem from individual body dysmorphia, or an excessive preoccupation with perceived flaws in appearance. Researchers suggest that this behavior strongly correlates with societal pressure for women to live up to the standards of beauty set by a culture obsessed with being thin. Research has shown that people have subconsciously associated heavier body sizes with negative personality characteristics such as laziness and lack of self-control. Fat-body prejudice appears as young as early childhood and continues into adult years. The problem of negative body-image worsens as females go through puberty; girls in adolescence frequently report being dissatisfied with their weight and fear future weight gain. According to the National Association of Anorexia Nervosa and Associated Disorders (ANAD), the age of the onset of eating disorders is getting younger. Girls as young as elementary-school age report body dissatisfaction and dieting in order to look like magazine models.\n\nThere have been many ideas over time and across different cultures of what the feminine beauty \"ideal\" is for a woman's body image. How well a woman follows these beauty ideals can also influence her social status within her culture. Physically altering the body has been a custom in many areas of the world for a long time. For example, decorating the body with tattoos is a symbol of attractiveness and status in the Japanese culture. The art of irezumi, or covering a woman's back with tattoos, is still practiced today in Japan. In Burma, Padung girls from the age of about five years, have metal rings put around their necks. Additional rings are added to the girl's neck every two years. This practice is done to produce a giraffe like effect in women. This practice is dying out, but these women would eventually carry up to 24 rings around their necks. A neck with many rings was considered the \"ideal\" image of physical beauty in this culture. In Europe, the corset has been used over time to create a tiny waistline. In Europe, a tiny waistline was considered \"ideal\" for beauty. A practice in China involved a girl's feet being bound at age six to create the \"ideal\" image of feet. The girl's feet were bound to become 1/3 the original size, which crippled the woman, but also gave her a very high social status and was much admired. After the revolution of 1911, this practice of foot binding was ended. The idea of what is considered the \"ideal\" of beauty for women varies across different cultural ideals and practices.\n\nThere have been multiple \"ideals for women\" in France as well as other various cultures. A more common ideal is for females to have the \"three white things\". These \"things\" or traits refer to skin, teeth, and hands. There are also the \"three black things\" including the color of the person's eyebrows and eyelashes. This leaves three other areas to embark on color including the cheeks, lips, and nails.\n\nIdeas of feminine beauty may have originated from features that correlate with fertility and health. These features include a figure where there is more fat distribution in the hip and thigh area, and vary between different cultures. Within Western cultures, having a smaller waist and bigger hips has a large influence. This differs in Eastern cultures.\n"}
{"id": "1849183", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1849183", "title": "Framework Convention for the Protection of National Minorities", "text": "Framework Convention for the Protection of National Minorities\n\nThe Framework Convention for the Protection of National Minorities (FCNM) is a multilateral treaty of the Council of Europe aimed at protecting the rights of minorities. It came into effect in 1998 and by 2009 it had been ratified by 39 member states.\n\nThe Council of Europe first discussed according specific protection for national minorities in 1949, but it was not until 1990 that the Council of Europe made a firm commitment to protect these minority groups. Recommendation 1134 (1990) contained a list of principles which the Assembly considered necessary for this purpose. The Parliamentary Assembly did in the beginning call for adoption of a protocol to the ECHR. The Framework was signed on February 1995 by 22 member States of the Council of Europe and became active in 1998. By mid-2005, 43 member states had signed and 39 ratified it.\n\nThe broad aims of the convention are to ensure that the signatory states respect the rights of national minorities, undertaking to combat discrimination, promote equality, preserve and develop the culture and identity of national minorities, guarantee certain freedoms in relation to access to the media, minority languages and education and encourage the participation of national minorities in public life. Article 25 of the Framework Convention binds the member states to submit a report to the Council of Europe containing \"full information on the legislative and other measures taken to give effect to the principles set out in this framework Convention\" (Council of Europe, 1994, 7).\n\nThe convention has come under some criticism. First of all, not all member states of the Council of Europe have signed and ratified it. France and Turkey have done neither. Iceland, Belgium, Luxembourg and Greece have signed and have yet to ratify. Also, the provisions offer little new on already existing international treaties. Furthermore, they are hedged around with many phrases including 'as far as possible' (Art 10.2). The convention does not define \"national minority\" and several countries set their own definition of the term when they ratified the treaty. For example, the United Kingdom ratified the convention on the understanding that it would be applied with reference to \"racial groups\" within the meaning of Section 3(1) of the Race Relations Act 1976. Since this excluded the Cornish people, this resulted in pressure, including from Cornwall Council, for the UK Government to recognise the Cornish as a national minority. In April 2014, it was announced by the Chief Secretary to the Treasury, Danny Alexander, that the UK Government would recognise the Cornish as a national minority under the FCNM.\n\nOverall however, Phillips (2002) has argued that because the FCNM is flexible it has allowed such a great number of states to ratify it so quickly. Therefore, it should not be considered a failure, but a start. Many authors agree with this arguing that it needs to be implemented in 'good faith' with the political will to support commitment to minority rights.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "20795480", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20795480", "title": "Freedom Defence Committee", "text": "Freedom Defence Committee\n\nThe Freedom Defence Committee was a UK-based organisation set up on 3 March 1945 to \"uphold the essential liberty of individuals and organisations, and to defend those who are persecuted for exercising their rights to freedom of speech, writing and action.\" Chaired by Herbert Read, with Fenner Brockway and Patrick Figgis as vice-chairmen, the Committee's secretary was Ethel Mannin. Later, George Orwell became a vice-chair and George Woodcock, secretary.\n\nThe Committee came into being as a result of Freedom Press and five private houses being raided by police on 12 December 1944, and three editors of \"War Commentary\", Vernon Richards, Philip Sansom and John Hewetson being prosecuted at the beginning of 1945 for conspiring \"to undermine the affections of members of His Majesty's Forces\" and because the National Council for Civil Liberties was considered a Communist front.\n\nThe three were convicted at the Central Criminal Court, \"Old Bailey\", on 27 April 1945, and sentenced to 9 months imprisonment.\n\nAn open letter requesting urgent funds was published in the 18 September 1948 issue of \"Socialist Leader\" and was signed by Benjamin Britten, E. M. Forster, Augustus John, Orwell, Read and Osbert Sitwell. \n\nIt was dissolved in 1949.\n"}
{"id": "38080928", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38080928", "title": "Gonzalo Queipo de Llano", "text": "Gonzalo Queipo de Llano\n\nGonzalo Queipo de Llano y Sierra, 1st Marquis of Queipo de Llano for one year, (5 February 1875 – 9 March 1951) was a Spanish military leader who rose to prominence during Francisco Franco's coup d'état and the subsequent Spanish Civil War and Spanish White Terror.\n\nA career Army man, de Llano was a brigadier general in 1923 when he began to speak out against the army and Miguel Primo de Rivera. Demoted, he served three years in prison but refused to stop criticizing even on his release, as a result of which he was dismissed altogether in 1928. In 1930, he became a revolutionary but on a failed attempt to overthrow King Alfonso XIII, he fled to Portugal. He returned to his native land in 1931 after the departure of Alfonso XIII and assumed command of the 1st Military District of the Spanish Republican Army. He was later appointed by Niceto Alcalá Zamora to the Chief of the military staff of the President (Queipo's daughter was married to a son of Alcalá Zamora). Even as he rose in prominence, he remained critical of the shifting governments, joining in on a plot to overthrow the Popular Front government in May, 1936.\n\nDuring the Spanish Civil War, de Llano secured the capture of Seville with a force of at least 4,000 troops. There, he ordered mass killings. Subsequently, he was appointed the commander of the Nationalist Army of the South. His influence began to decline in February 1938, when Francisco Franco named himself Sole Head of the New State and appointed his brother-in-law Ramón Serrano Súñer Minister of the Interior and Propaganda.\n\n"}
{"id": "19408917", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19408917", "title": "Granny Peace Brigade", "text": "Granny Peace Brigade\n\nThe Granny Peace Brigade [GPB] is an active anti-war demonstration group in New York City made up of older women dedicated to the goal of peace with justice domestically and globally. The GPB frequently collaborates with Code Pink, The Raging Grannies and Peace Action and is one of many local activist groups seeking a safe and peaceful world for all people, especially children.\n\nArrested on October 17, 2005 and later acquitted for attempting to enlist in the military at the recruitment center in Times Square, the GPB works on such initiatives as counter-recruitment (preventing military recruiters from entering public schools), opposition to militarization on a global scale, social networking for phone-a-thons(enabling the public to voice their opinions to elected officials by phone), Teach-Ins (discussing the problems created by U.S. military bases around the world),anti-Drone work(resolution sent to the City Council and street actions on the ban of surveillance and weaponized drones),No War Toys actions at holiday time, anti-Occupation actions(Palestine)and education on how we want our taxes used(Ms.Gizmo),and direct action at military bases, corporate and government offices.\n\nThe Grannies were initially formed when a group of women, members of seven groups [see below], approached military recruiters and demanded to be sent to Iraq in order to replace young people who were used as cannon fodder by the US military. The Granny Peace Brigade name was adopted for identification purposes after the women decided to continue working together as a group.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "12748135", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12748135", "title": "Hutu Power", "text": "Hutu Power\n\nHutu Power is a racist supremacist ideology propounded by Hutu extremists in Rwanda. It led to the 1994 Rwandan genocide against the Tutsi. Hutu Power political parties and movements included the \"Akazu\", the Coalition for the Defence of the Republic and its \"Impuzamugambi\" paramilitary militia, and the governing National Republican Movement for Democracy and Development and its \"Interahamwe\" paramilitary militia.\n\nHassan Ngeze in 1990 created the \"Hutu Ten Commandments\" that served as the basis of Hutu Power ideology. The \"Commandments\" called for the supremacy of Hutus in Rwanda, calling for exclusive Hutu leadership over Rwanda's public institutions and public life, complete segregation of Hutus from Tutsis, and complete exclusion of Tutsis from public institutions and public life. Hutu Power ideology reviled Tutsis as outsiders bent on restoring a Tutsi-dominated monarchy, and idealized all things Hutu.\n\nThe Commandments declared that any form of relationship between Hutus and Tutsi women was forbidden; and that any Hutu who \"marries a Tutsi woman\", \"befriends a Tutsi woman\", or \"employs a Tutsi woman as a secretary or a concubine\" was a traitor to the Hutu people. It denounced Tutsis as dishonest in business whose \"only aim is the supremacy of his ethnic group\"; and declared that any Hutu who did business with a Tutsi was a traitor to the Hutu people. The Commandments declared that \"The Hutu should stop having mercy on the Tutsi\" and referred to the Tutsis as \"common Tutsi enemy\".\n\nThe Rwandan kingdom was traditionally ruled by a Tutsi mwami, or king; Historical evidence suggests that Hutu and Twa were included in government, although the Twa significantly less so than Hutu, who were more numerous. The Tutsi/Hutu divide has been referred to as a caste system. A Hutu could gain Tutsi status through marriage or through success. Tutsis, being primarily pastoralists, had a more valuable place in Rwandan society than the agriculturalist Hutu, and the hunter-gatherer and potter Twa.\n\nThe society created conceptions of social status based on the groups' traditional pursuits: the Twa, working most directly with the earth (through pottery), were considered impure; the Hutu, still working with the ground but less so than the Twa, were in turn considered less pure than the above-ground Tutsi. When Germany, and later Belgium, colonized the kingdom, they interpreted the local division of races or ethnicity through the Hamitic hypothesis. European authors such as John Hanning Speke wrote of the Tutsi as being of Hamitic origin, having constituted a Hamitic invasion from modern Ethiopia, bringing civilization to the Negroid race. As a result, the colonial administration favored the Tutsi at the expense of Hutu and Twa. In addition, they imposed a system of identity cards and ethnic classification in censuses, which reinforced an artificial ethnic division and contributed to tensions between groups. In reality, the Tutsi, Hutu, and Twa possessed little cultural or genetic distinction.\n\nToward the end of Belgian rule, the government began to favor the Hutu, who were organizing for more influence. More significantly, the Belgian administration feared the rise of Communism and a Pan-African socialist regime led by Congo-Léopoldville's Patrice Lumumba. Then-Belgian High Resident Guy Logiest set up the first democratic elections in Rwanda to avoid more radical politics. As the majority population, the Hutu elected their candidates to most positions in the new government.\n\nThe first elected president Grégoire Kayibanda, an ethnic Hutu, used ethnic tensions to preserve his own power. Hutu radicals, working with his group (and later against it), adopted the Hamitic hypothesis, portraying the Tutsi as outsiders, invaders, and oppressors of Rwanda. Some Hutu radicals called for the Tutsi to be \"sent back to Abyssinia\", a reference to their supposed homeland. This early concept of Hutu Power idealized a \"pre-invasion\" Rwanda: an ethnically pure territory dominated by the Hutu.\n\nIn 1973, general and defense minister Juvénal Habyarimana, an ethnic Hutu supported by more radical northern Rwandans, overthrew Kayibanda and had him and his wife killed. Many of his supporters were from his district in the north, descendants of Hutu kingdoms that had been semi-autonomous before the colonial period. The resulting administration proved better for Tutsis, as government-sponsored violence was more sporadic than under Kayibanda.\n\nWith economic conditions difficult, and threatened by the Rwandan Patriotic Front (RPF) invasion, Habyarimana turned to inflaming ethnic tensions.\n\nHutu Power acquired a variety of spokesmen. Hassan Ngeze, an entrepreneur recruited by the government to combat the Tutsi publication \"Kanguka\", created and edited \"Kangura\", a radical Hutu Power newsletter. He published the \"Hutu Ten Commandments\", which included the following:\n\n\"Radio Télévision Libre des Mille Collines\" broadcast radio shows suggesting the end to toleration of the Tutsi, repeating the Hutu Ten Commandments, and building support for the Hutu Power ideology. Two main voices of RTLM were announcers Valérie Bemeriki and Georges Ruggiu. The repetition of Hutu Ten Commandments was an attempt to incite and mobilize the population to commit genocide against the Tutsi, who were portrayed as threatening the social and political order achieved since independence, and as envisioned by the \"Akazu\". Politician Léon Mugesera gave a speech in November, 1992, allegedly stating, \"Do not be afraid, know that anyone whose neck you do not cut is the one who will cut your neck...Let them pack their bags, let them get going, so that no one will return here to talk and no one will bring scraps claiming to be flags!\" The radio programs frequently referred to the Tutsi as \"inyenzi\", a Kinyarwanda word meaning 'cockroach', though the term had also been a self-description by members of the Tutsi Rwanda Patriotic Front.\n\nDuring the attempted negotiations (Arusha Accords) between the Rwandan government and the RPF, radical Hutus began alleging that Habyarimana was being manipulated by Tutsis and non-radical Hutus. They maligned then-Prime Minister Agathe Uwilingiyimana. Following Habyarimana's assassination, an act that at the time people speculated was done by Tutsi extremists, Hutu Power forces mobilized militia, most notably \"Interahamwe\", and mobs to carry out the mass killings of the Rwandan genocide. The Presidential Guard of the army killed Prime Minister Uwilingiyimana and several other leading moderate government officials.\n\nThe defeat of the government by the RPF ended the genocide, and the Hutu Power movement was defeated and suppressed.\nMany Hutu Power spokesmen were arrested after the genocide, charged and put on trial. Ngeze was convicted and sentenced to 35 years imprisonment. In 2005, Mugesera was deported from Canada to Rwanda to stand trial for his role in the killings.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "21310607", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21310607", "title": "Internment camps in Sweden during World War II", "text": "Internment camps in Sweden during World War II\n\nA number of internment camps were operated by Sweden during World War II. These camps were used for internment of, among others, suspected criminals, German refugees, anarchists and Swedish communists.\n\nMilitary personnel from both sides in the war, if they entered Sweden without prior agreement, were also often subject to internment.\n\nThe camps were claimed to have been a decision necessary in the ambition to keep Sweden out of the war. It was made by the then-ruling grand coalition government under social democrat prime minister Per Albin Hansson, which all included all parties in the Parliament of Sweden, with the notable exception of the Communist Party of Sweden.\n\nIn February 1940, the decision was made to build several internment camps, which are believed to have held around 3,000 inmates between the years 1940-1948.\n\n- Axmar, Gävle Municipality, Gävleborg County (1945)\n\n- Ede, Krokom Municipality, Jämtland County (1943–1948)\n\n- Florsberg, Söderhamn Municipality, Gävleborg County (1943–1948)\n\n- Grytan, Östersund Municipality, Jämtland County (January–September 1942)\n\n- Hälsingmo, Söderhamn Municipality, Gävleborg County (1943–1948)\n\n- Ingels, Rättvik Municipality, Dalarna County (1942–1946)\n\n- Kusfors, Norsjö Municipality, Västerbotten County (1944–1945)\n\n- Långmora, Hedemora Municipality, Dalarna County (March 1940-1945)\n\n- Lövnäsvallen, Härjedalen Municipality, Jämtland County (September 1941–January 1942)\n\n- Naartijärvi, Haparanda Municipality, Norrbotten County (January–March 1940)\n\n- Norra Bredåker, Boden Municipality, Norrbotten County (December 1939–January 1940) (Merged with Storsien internment camp in January 1940)\n\n- Rengsjö, Bollnäs Municipality, Gävleborg County (1942–1945)\n\n- Smedsbo, Falun Municipality, Dalarna County (March 1940-1945)\n\n- Stensele, Storuman Municipality, Västerbotten County (August–October 1943)\n\n- Storsien, Kalix Municipality, Norrbotten County (December 1939–April 1940; May–July 1940)\n\n- Sunnerstaholm, Bollnäs Municipality, Gävleborg County (1945–1946)\n\n- Säter, Säter Municipality, Dalarna County (1943–1946)\n\n- Sörbyn, Boden Municipality, Norrbotten County (1944–1945)\n\n- Tjörnarp, Höör Municipality, Skåne County (1945–1946)\n\n- Vindeln, Vindeln Municipality, Västerbotten County (August–October 1943)\n\n- Vägershult, Uppvidinge Municipality, Kronoberg County (1942–1945)\n\n- Öxnered, Vänersborg Municipality, Västra Götaland County (September 1941–January 1942)\n\nInternees were commonly suspected criminals, German refugees, left-wing activists or anti-Nazis. They were imprisoned without trial and without being informed of the accusations made against them. Most of these were foreigners.\n\nWardens were instructed to ensure humane treatment of internees.\nAll internees were forced to wear certain uniform and submit daily routines.\nInternees in Smedsbo internment camp had a typical daily routine of being woken up at 7.15am, they were then escorted to the dining room where they were expected to have their breakfast in complete silence followed by working passes. They were not permitted to leave their working station at any time. Jobs like road building, repair duty and woodcutting were commonly adopted. With one break for lunch, work proceeded until 2.45pm, after which internees were more or less free for the rest of the day.\n\nA number of Western Allied servicemen, primarily crew members of the aircraft damaged during bombing missions over Germany, found themselves on Swedish soil, and were interned by the Swedish authorities. \n\nUnlike civilian refugees from Germany, who were kept in internment camps, Allied airmen were placed in hotels and bed and breakfast establishments in the Falun area, and enjoyed relative freedom. They received their regular military pay from their home countries, which allowed them to be much better off than the local Swedish residents.\n\nIn 2008, Swedish journalist Niclas Sennerteg and researcher Tobias Berglund published \"Swedish Concentration Camps in the Shadow of the Third Reich\" (Swedish title: “Svenska koncentrationsläger i tredje rikets skugga”), where they claim to be exposing what the government had kept secret regarding the presence of Swedish concentration camps. After the discovery was brought to media and thus public attention, the use of the term concentration camp has been highly debated.\n\nAfter the war the internment camps were used to store foreigners that the Swedish government deemed dubious. However, details regarding much of this have still not been uncovered.\n\n\"Den svenska staten använder sig av brutala tvångs- och våldsmetoder för att eftertryckligt trampa ned den utländska antifascisten som likt en vrakspillra efter den tyska demokratins skeppsbrott kastats upp på svensk strand\" \n\n\"Translation:\"\n\"The Swedish government is using brutal methods to forcefully crush the foreign antifascists who like remnants after the shipwreck of the German democracy was washed upon Swedish shores.”\n\n\"Det svenska folket får inte tolerera att oskyldiga människor kastas i fängelse och kvarhålles där på obestämd tid.”\n\"Translation:\"\n\n”The Swedish people must not tolerate the imprisonment of innocent people for an undetermined time.”\n\n"}
{"id": "8347501", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8347501", "title": "Islamic Legion", "text": "Islamic Legion\n\nThe Islamic Legion (Arabic: الفيلق الإسلامي \"al-Faylaq ul-'Islāmiyyu\") ( Islamic Pan-African Legion) was a Libyan-sponsored pan-Arabist paramilitary force, created in 1972. The Legion was part of Muammar Gaddafi's dream of creating the Great Islamic State of the Sahel.\n\nGaddafi, who had come to power in September 1969, was not only a Pan-Africanist, but an Arab cultural supremacist. His hostility to Chad's government of President François Tombalbaye was at least partly inspired by Tombalbaye's African and Christian background. It also led Gaddafi to drive the Toubou of Libya, who were considered 'black', from Fezzan and across the Chadian border. Gaddafi supported the Sudanese government of Gaafar Nimeiry, referring to it as an \"Arab Nationalist Revolutionary Movement\", and even offered to merge the two countries at a meeting in late 1971. Gaddafi's plans for the peaceful formation of an \"Arab Union\" were dashed when Nimeiry turned down his offer and negotiated the Addis Ababa Agreement ending the First Sudanese Civil War, fought with the Black, animist and Christian, South. Gaddafi's definition of \"Arab\" was broad, including the Tuareg of Mali and Niger, as well as the Zaghawa of Chad and Sudan.\n\nIn 1972, Gaddafi created the Islamic Legion as a tool to unify and Arabize the region. The priority of the Legion was first Chad, and then Sudan. In Darfur, a western province of Sudan, Gaddafi supported the creation of the Arab Gathering (Tajammu al-Arabi), which according to Gérard Prunier was \"a militantly racist and pan-Arabist organization which stressed the 'Arab' character of the province.\" The two organizations shared members and a source of support, and the distinction between the two is often ambiguous.\n\nThis Islamic Legion was mostly composed of immigrants from poorer Sahelian countries, but also, according to a source, thousands of Pakistanis and some Bangladeshis who had been recruited since 1981 with the false promise of civilian jobs once in Libya. Generally speaking, the Legion's members were immigrants who had gone to Libya with no thought of fighting wars, and had been provided with inadequate military training and had sparse commitment. A French journalist, speaking of the Legion's forces in Chad, observed that they were \"foreigners, Arabs or Africans, mercenaries in spite of themselves, wretches who had come to Libya hoping for a civilian job, but found themselves signed up more or less by force to go and fight in an unknown desert.\"\n\nAccording to the Military Balance published by the International Institute for Strategic Studies, the force was organized into one armored, one infantry, and one paratroop/commando brigade. It had been supplied with T-54 and T-55 tanks, armored personnel carriers, and EE-9 armored cars. The Legion was reported to have been committed during the fighting in Chad in 1980 and was praised by Gaddafi for its success there. However, it was believed that many of the troops who fled the Chadian attacks of March 1987 were members of the Legion.\n\nGaddafi dispatched legionnaires to Uganda, Palestine, Lebanon and Syria, but the Legion was to be mostly associated with the Chadian–Libyan conflict, where already in 1980 7,000 legionnaires participated to the second battle of N'Djamena, where its fighting record was most noted for its ineptitude. To this force Benin's Marxist regime is said to have provided legionnaires during the 1983 offensive in Chad. At the beginning of the 1987 Libyan offensive into Chad, it maintained a force of 2,000 in Darfur. The nearly continuous cross-border raids that resulted greatly contributed to a separate ethnic conflict within Darfur that killed about 9,000 people between 1985 and 1988.\n\nThe Legion was disbanded by Gaddafi following its defeats in Chad in 1987 and the Libyan retreat from that country. But its consequences in this region can still be felt. Some of the Janjaweed leaders were among those said to have been trained in Libya, as many Darfuri followers of the Umma Party were forced in exile in the 1970s and 1980s.\n\nThe Legion was also to leave a strong impact on the Tuareg living in Mali and Niger. A series of severe droughts had brought many young Tuareg to migrate to Libya, where a number of them were recruited into the Legion, receiving an indoctrination that told them to reject their hereditary chiefs and to fight those governments that excluded the Tuareg from power. After the disbandment of the Legion, these men were to return to their countries and to play an important role in the Tuareg rebellions that erupted in the two countries in 1989–90.\n\nImmediately prior to the overthrow of the Gaddafi regime, there were media reports that his hard-core of supporters included former members of the Islamic Legion who had been granted Libyan citizenship and remained in the country.\n\nIn an effort to realize Gaddafi's vision of a united Arab military force, plans for the creation of an Arab Legion have been announced from time to time. The goal, according to the Libyan press, would be to assemble an army of 1 million men and women fighters to prepare for the great Arab battle--\"the battle of liberating Palestine, of toppling the reactionary regimes, of annihilating the borders, gates, and barriers between the countries of the Arab homeland, and of creating the single Arab Jamahiriya from the ocean to the gulf.\" In March 1985, it was announced that the National Command of the Revolutionary Forces Command in the Arab Nation had been formed with Gaddafi at its head. A number of smaller radical Arab groups from Lebanon, Tunisia, Sudan, Iraq, the Persian Gulf states, and Jordan were represented at the inaugural meeting. Syrian Baath Party and radical Palestinian factions were also present. Each of these movements was expected to earmark 10 percent of its forces for service under the new command. As of April 1987, there was no information confirming the existence of such a militia.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "17473681", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17473681", "title": "Jewish Social Democratic Party", "text": "Jewish Social Democratic Party\n\nThe Jewish Social Democratic Party (in Yiddish, \"Yidishe sotsial-demokratishe partey\", , abbreviated ŻPS) was a political party in Galicia and later also Bukovina, established in a split from the Polish Social Democratic Party of Galicia (PPSD) in 1905. The party made its first public appearance on May 1, 1905, with separate May Day rallies in Kraków, Lemberg, Tarnów and Przemyśl. However, as the new party stressed that it was not a competitor of the existing Social Democratic parties, they later joined the PPSD celebrations.\n\nThe Party, often nicknamed the 'Galician Bund', was influenced by the Bund in Russia and was opposed to Zionism.\n\nŻPS held its founding congress in June 1905. The second congress was held in 1906.\n\nIts founding theoretician and secretary was Henryk Grossman. While the Party sought affiliation to the Social Democratic Workers Party of Austria, this was refused. The ŻPS became the largest organisation of Jewish workers in Galicia.\n\nIn the initial period of the existence of the party, it publish a monthtly titled \"Der yudisher sotsial-demokrat\". In October 1905 it was replaced by a weekly, \"Der sotsial-demokrat\". As of 1910, \"Der sotsial-demokrat\" had a circulation of 2000.\n\nIn 1911 the Jewish Social Democracy in Galicia, the Jewish affiliate section of the PPSD, merged into the ŻPS. The Jewish Social Democracy in Galicia had 377 members at the time of the merger. The strength of the party reached its peak when the Bukovina Bundists merged into the party the following year. The united party took the name Jewish Social Democratic Party in Galicia and Bukovina.\n\nIn 1913, several prominent leaders of the erstwhile Jewish Social Democracy began returning to the PPSD. More devastating for the ŻPS, though, was the outbreak of the First World War. Galicia and Bukovina became battlefield, and party activities ceased. The branch in Cracow was reconstructed in 1916, and in the fall of 1917 there was a conference of delegates from different local ŻPS branches. On 15, 1918 \"Der sotsial-demokrat\" reappeared.\n\nIn 1920, its organisation in Poland merged with the Polish Bund. In Bukovina, now part of Romania, the remnants of the party continued to operate under the name 'Bund', and in 1922 they founded (along with Jewish socialists from Old Romania and Bessarabia) the General Jewish Labour Bund in Romania.\n\nThe party had 2800 members in 1906, by 1908 the figure had risen to 3600 and by 1910 it claimed a membership of 4206. At the time, the party had 80 branches in 32 different localities. In 1911, after the merger with the Bukovina Bund, the party had 4500 members.\n\nExcept for its organization in Galicia and Bukovina, the party also had presence (at warying times) in Vienna, New York City, Antwerp and Bielsk.\n\n"}
{"id": "22173485", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22173485", "title": "Johan Bäckman", "text": "Johan Bäckman\n\nErkki Johan Bäckman (born 18 May 1971) is a Finnish political activist, author and legal sociologist. In Russia he is also considered a human rights activist. He has been active in relation to Russian citizens' child custody rights abroad, and is regularly interviewed by the Russian media as a child custody expert. Bäckman has contentious views about Estonia, Latvia and Ukraine, and has been declared persona non grata and denied entry into Estonia, and has been expelled from Moldova.\n\nBäckman's books have been the subject of intense debate about Finnish-Soviet relations during the Cold War, the war history of Finland and the Soviet Union, organized crime in Estonia and the Russian Mafia, terrorism, and the history of Estonia. As a spokesman for the Finnish Anti-Fascist Committee he is against the integration policies of Estonia and Latvia, claiming they are \"apartheid policies\". On the whole, he does not recognize them as states. Bäckman supported Russia during the Ukrainian crisis, and also claims to represent the separatist Donetsk People's Republic in Finland.\n\nBäckman has a title of a docent in sociology of law and in criminology, and has previously taught courses on the sociology of law, criminology, and Russian studies in several Finnish universities. He has a background in music and became a public figure in the late 1980s then participating in EBU Young Soloists Competition.\n\nBäckman is highly critical of the modern Finnish historiography of World War II and challenges the traditional Western account that Finland waged a separate Continuation War against the aggression of the USSR. According to Bäckman, the Finns participated in the Siege of Leningrad actively and asked Hitler to destroy the city. He speculates that Finland also planned an ethnic cleansing in Karelia in order to create a Finno-Ugric superpower, possibly stretching as far as the Urals, or even to the river Yenisei, which he claimed is proven by vast amounts of documents and in several Finnish history books by Helge Seppälä, Osmo Hyytiä and Nikolai Baryshnikov.\n\nBäckman accuses Finland of being the aggressor in World War II: that it allied with Hitler in attacking the USSR in 1941 (Continuation War)—omitting the original source conflict (Winter War); plotted territorial expansion and planned to conduct ethnic cleansing; and that, along with the Estonians and Germans, believed in its Aryan origins (a Nordic master race). He contends Finns are both anti-Semitic and Russophobic, Russophobia being a \"racist political ideology\"—both per \"several academic works by Finnish authors.\"\n\nIn 2002, Bäckman publicly accused the Foreign Ministry of Finland of Russophobia and racism. He claimed that the ministry was preparing a campaign to smear Russia and return the territories lost in the Paris Peace Treaty.\n\nBäckman has frequently travelled to Russia since 1993, and is fluent in Russian. In 2000, he established a publishing institution named the \"Johan Beckman Institute\" in Saint Petersburg.\n\nIn March 2002, during a military historical festival in Suojärvi in the Republic of Karelia which was dedicated to the 62nd anniversary of the end of the Winter War, Bäckman made a sensational claim that the modern authorities of Finland propagated the idea that the Russian people are genetically inferior and expected Russia to collapse in about twenty years. The other participants at the festival considered that he unreasonably overestimated the extent of anti-Russian sentiment in Finland. According to Bäckman's article \"Finland without a mask\" (the title alludes to a 1943 proclamation by Otto Wille Kuusinen), published in Russian in May 2002, the Finns in general consider themselves a superior nation, all Russian women prostitutes, and all Russian men thieves and bandits. During 2002, Bäckman gained an odious reputation both in Russia and among his Finnish colleagues.\n\nIn 2003, Johan Beckman Institute published the book \"Finland and the Siege of Leningrad 1941-1944\" by the Russian historian Nikolai Baryshnikov. The Saint Petersburg legislature awarded Bäckman their \"Marshal Govorov Literature Prize\" (2003) for the book. Historian Timo Vihavainen, a historian at the University of Helsinki described it as \"a book built on Stalinist propaganda stereotypes\". Vihavainen also said that Baryshnikov had misunderstood some of the language in Finnish archive documents. Bäckman and Baryshnikov threatened to sue Vihavainen.\n\nAccording to Finnish newspaper \"Helsingin Sanomat\", Johan Bäckman was a talented researcher in Russian studies in the early 2000s, who has since \"marginalized\" himself in Finland.\n\nBäckman serves Russian Institute for Strategic Studies (RISS) as representative in Northern Europe. RISS is a Russian state funded research group led by a former Soviet intelligence officer.\n\nIn his 2007 book \"Finland washed with Anna Politkovskaya's blood\" (, Literally: \"Satan Arrives in Helsinki\", which alludes to \"Saatana saapuu Moskovaan\", the Finnish language title for \"The Master and Margarita\" by Bulgakov) he supported the conspiracy theory that Anna Politkovskaya assassination was organized by as an attempt to smear the Russian president Vladimir Putin. Bäckman has hinted that Politkovskaya was depressed and ordered her own murder. According to Bäckman, Politkovskaya, a Russian writer and human rights activist, was an American agent. He also criticizes Finns' reaction to the murder. Bäckman accused Finnish Green League politician Heidi Hautala and the Finnish media of inciting hatred towards Russia and Vladimir Putin. Hautala, depicted on the book cover (\"pictured\"), saw this as a smear campaign, but refused to take legal action, preferring to allow the book to speak for itself.\n\nBäckman admires Vladmir Putin, crediting all recent successes of Russia to Putin's personality and health. He has compared Putin to Cold War-era Finnish president Urho Kekkonen, and claimed he wishes Putin would likewise rule Russia for 26 years. He stated that Finland also needs organizations such as the pro-Kremlin Nashi and Walking Together. According to Bäckman, the freedom of the press in Russia is considerably higher than in Finland, and Estonia is not free at all.\n\nAccording to Finnish Academy chairman Arto Mustajoki, Dr. Bäckman is five times more visible in the Russian media than previous Finnish premier Jyrki Katainen or previous president Tarja Halonen. According to Mustajoki, Russians treat Bäckman as \"hero\" because he defends Russian minorities in the Baltic States.\n\nBäckman's work has been published in Finland and Estonia. Many of his published opinions are provocative and some have been regarded as pro-Putin and anti-Estonian by commentators in the Estonian press. Bäckman has stated that Estonia \"does not exist\" as a sovereign state.\n\nAccording to Bäckman, the Estonians and Finns are actually one nation and the Republic of Estonia should be united with Finland where it could still have an autonomy.\n\nIn his highly controversial book about the Estonian Bronze Soldier \"Pronssisoturi: Viron patsaskiistan tausta ja sisältö\", published in Finnish in 2008, Bäckman disagrees with the integration policies of Estonia. In his opinion, Estonian integration policies that have seen some 147,000 Russian speakers receiving Estonian citizenship in the past decade are \"apartheid\" and represent a \"criminal discrimination of Russians\". In the \"Bronze Soldier\" he dismissed the Soviet occupation of Estonia as a \"Nazi myth\". Bäckman has gained publicity in Estonia for denying the Soviet occupation during 1940-1941 and 1944-1991: \"\"In my opinion speaking or writing of Soviet \"occupation\" should be criminalised as a form of racist propaganda.\n\nIn connection to the publication of the book in September 2008, Bäckman gave several interviews, including one in which he claimed Estonia will join Russia within a decade. Bäckman also claimed that the \"destruction\" of the Bronze Soldier grave site and monument in April 2007 by the Estonian government was \"the end of history of Estonia\". He speculated that most of the Russian youth all over Russia, including children, hate Estonia and deny her the right to exist. Bäckman went on to predict that in ten years at most, the Nashi would come to power in Russia, leading to an end of the Estonian statehood shortly afterwards.\n\nAfter the publication of the book, Finnish and Estonian cultural figures, scholars, journalists and politicians, including Henrik Lax, Lasse Lehtinen and Sofi Oksanen, addressed the University of Helsinki in an open letter of protest, partly in relation to Bäckman teaching a course on \"specialities of Estonian legal policy\" in the Spring 2009 semester. Bäckman immediately threatened to sue the letter's authors for libel and later filed a criminal complaint, but the Helsinki Police refused to open investigation. The former minister of foreign affairs of Finland Dr. Erkki Tuomioja called Bäckman's book as \"deliberate provocation\", but condemned the open letter for violating the principles of freedom of speech. The University of Helsinki distanced itself in a statement holding that Bäckman's political views are his own and do not represent the University's.\n\nIn March 2009 Bäckman, as part of the Finnish Anti-Fascist Committee, arranged a series of protests in Helsinki attended by activists of the Russian Nashi, and Night Watch organizations, against what they called the \"opening [of] a new anti-Russian front of information warfare on the territory of Finland by [the] Estonian embassy.\" In addition, Abdullah Tammi and his followers from the prospective Finnish Islamic Party participated. The protests were aimed against seminars, against a book about the Soviet occupation of Estonia, and against films presented by the Estonian embassy in Finland, especially the film \"Soviet Story\" by Edvins Snore. In media commentaries for Swedish, Finnish and Russian press, television and radio, Bäckman claimed that the Soviet Union did not occupy Estonia, and belittled the significance of the Soviet deportations from Estonia.\n\nThe Estonian Internal Security Service (Kaitsepolitseiamet) official Andres Kahar said in the Estonian press that Bäckman is \"a Russian propagandist\" spreading disinformation similar to claims made in Moscow.\n\nIn March 2009, the newspaper \"Eesti Ekspress\" reported a link between Bäckman and the Finnish neo-nazi Risto Teinonen, alleging both of them are connected to the reputed former KGB agent Vladimir Ilyashevich residing in Estonia, all of whom are linked to the Russian historian Alexander Dyukov. In the assessment by Kaitsepolitseiamet, Bäckman, Teinonen and Ilyashevich are working as a team with support from Moscow, attempting to undermine the names of many good people, the relations between Finland and Estonia, and the Republic of Estonia itself.\n\nFinnish counter-intelligence has not commented on Bäckman publicly. Regarding Nashi-demonstrations organised by Bäckman in Helsinki in March 2009, the Finnish security police spokesman replied they heard \"rumours\" about the demonstrations but would not comment on issues regarding free democratic activism.\n\nOn 26 April 2009, Bäckman was detained after his disembarkation from a ferry in the Tallinn Passenger Port and expelled from the country under an entry prohibition. The Estonian Ministry of Internal Affairs confirmed that Johan Bäckman has been declared \"persona non grata\" in Estonia. Among reasons for expulsion, the Estonian Minister of Internal Affairs listed the first of all twelve statements by Bäckman in the Estonian press and in his blog, claiming Estonia is an \"apartheid\" regime that \"falsifies\" history. Helsingin Sanomat pointed out such prohibition against entry into Estonia by Finnish citizens is extremely rare. Previously such entry bans have been issued to some Finns suspected of connections with racist movements. In December 2010, Tallinn regional court declared entry prohibitions against Bäckman illegal and ordered the Ministry of Internal Affairs to compensate his legal fees in sum of 16,600 Estonian kroons.\n\nOn 29 July 2011, Bäckman was again denied entry into Estonia and sent back to Finland.\n\nBäckman has been a commentator of Finnish-Russian child custody and \"grandmother cases\". The Finnish Broadcasting Company Yle, quoting Timo Vihavainen, a professor of Russian history, speculated that this has happened due to fact that Bäckman's opinions match the interests of the Kremlin.\n\nBäckman was a commentator for Russian press during the Anton incident in 2009. Later, Bäckman apologized for his behaviour, and promised not to further intervene in the incident. However, he later deleted his apology, continuing to comment on the case. He was also an active commentator for Russian press during the Rantala incident in 2010. Bäckman also received media time with grandmother and similar child custody cases in 2010.\n\nBäckman claims that children that are being taken care of by Finnish child protection authorities are living in \"concentration camps\", and explains that \"this is a certain system of political terror\". To explain why the rest of the world has not noticed this, he claims that \"Children who get into these camps have special prohibitions for communications, they cannot tell us what is happening there.\" He states that \"I think that the juvenile justice system, the system of a mass removal of children, is genocide of children.\". He has not provided numbers for how many children are supposed to have been killed in this alleged \"genocide\", and has not revealed any sources for his information.\n\nBäckman has criticized Yle journalist Jessikka Aro, who investigated pro-Russian Internet trolls, accusing her in “Russo-phobic” tendencies and claiming that she was \"well-known assistant of American and Baltic special services.\" Prosecutors have formally charged Bäckman for harassment and aggravated defamation of Aro. In October 2018 Bäckman received a 12-month suspended jail sentence for aggravated defamation and stalking. Bäckman said he would appeal the verdict.\n\nBäckman has a background in music. According to Helsingin Sanomat he became a public figure in the late 1980s when playing the bassoon in the EBU Young Soloists Competition on national television. Bäckman also played the bassoon in the Finnish Radio Symphony Orchestra.\n\nIn March 2014 Bäckman was invited to participate as observer by the Eurasian Observatory for Democracy & Elections (EODE), a far-right Russia-based self-proclaimed election monitoring organization, in disputed Crimean status referendum which resulted annexation of Crimea by Russia. Bäckman stated that he saw no violations and considered the referendum to be within the framework of international law.\n\nIn May he announced that separatist Donetsk People's Republic will open a representative office in Helsinki. Bäckman claims that Malaysia Airlines Flight 17 shootdown was a United States provocation to justify a NATO intervention in Donbass conflict, and describes Ukrainian government as \"the Kiev junta\".\n\nIn May 2014 Bäckman was expelled from Moldova and received five-year entry ban, as his activities were regarded as undermining Moldova's statehood.\n\nBäckman regards the Taistoists movement of the 1970s, the hardline pro-Soviet faction in the Communist Party of Finland, as \"the best thing that happened in the history of Finland\". He has said: \"We can thank the Taistoists for high-quality science, art and culture we enjoy today\". Bäckman was an independent candidate for European Parliament election in 2009 on the Workers Party of Finland list. He got 554 votes and was not allocated a seat.\n\nIn March 2011, Bäckman announced that he is a candidate for the 2011 Finnish parliamentary election on the Workers Party of Finland list. He gained only 36 votes and was not allocated a seat.\n\nIn October 2012 he was a candidate in municipal elections in Espoo, getting 43 votes, insufficient to gain a seat.\n\nHe received his training in sociology at the University of Helsinki, where he defended his Ph.D. in 2006, and has a title of a docent (not an indication of a teaching position or employment) of the sociology of law. He also has a title of a docent in criminology at the University of Turku and the University of Eastern Finland. He has previously taught courses on the sociology of law, criminology, and Russian studies in several Finnish universities.\n\nJohan Bäckman is a son of \"Erkki Bäckman\" who was a Managing Director of Hartwall beverage company. Johan Bäckman has litigated over child custody against his Soviet-born ex-wife for years in which both parties have received sentences for libel. Bäckman's current family consists of a girl and two boys. His wife is a Russian language and literature teacher. According to Helsingin Sanomat, Bäckman had been treated with caution in the Finnish public media because he is sensitive to what he considers to be journalistic libels. According to the newspaper he has won a court case two times, but equally self-convicted of libel in July 2009.\nBäckman wrote a letter to the editor saying he had won seven libel cases during past couple of years, not two, as the paper claimed. Bäckman wrote he won the cases against five persons, all of whom are female citizens of Finland.\n\nBäckman has a child from the previous relationship with Jaana Niemi. Niemi was born in the Soviet Union with Finnish origins, but was brought up in Russian culture. The family also spoke Finnish. In 1990, Niemi, then age of 15, moved from the Soviet Union to Finland. Bäckman and Niemi's relationship lasted six months and ended in a confrontational way. A daughter was born in 2004. Soon after, Bäckman sued Jaana Niemi, her parents and friends dozens of times. Most of cases ended in pretrial investigations, but Bäckman run a few cases by himself in a court. The Finnish court Hovioikeus convicted Niemi once, and Bäckman was convicted twice. Niemi lives now in Milan, Italy.\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "45444697", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45444697", "title": "Khalifa Islamiyah Mindanao", "text": "Khalifa Islamiyah Mindanao\n\nKhalifa Islamiyah Mindanao (KIM) was a dedicated organization that sought to establish an independent state in Mindanao, Philippines. The group was led by an Afghan-trained cleric known as Humam Abdul Najid. It was sometimes described as an umbrella organization composed of the Jemaah Islamiyah, the Abu Sayyaf, and members of other armed groups. According to the Philippine Institute for Peace, Violence and Terrorism Research, the KIM had five founders; Zulkifli Abdhir, who was killed on January 25, 2015 by Special Action Force officers during the raid that culminated in the Mamasapano clash, Amir M, Amir Abtol Rahman, Amir Kuptu and Amir Humam Abdul Najid. The group has reportedly adopted the flag of the Islamic State of Iraq and the Levant.\n\nArmed Forces of the Philippines chief, Emmanuel Bautista confirmed the existence of the group in August 2013, although reports about the group were made as early as two years before.\n\n"}
{"id": "12218756", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12218756", "title": "Khao-I-Dang", "text": "Khao-I-Dang\n\nKhao-I-Dang Holding Center was a Cambodian refugee camp located 20 km north of Aranyaprathet in Prachinburi (now Sa Kaeo) Province of Thailand. The most enduring refugee camp on the Thai-Cambodian border, it was established in late 1979 and administered by the Thai Ministry of the Interior and the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees (UNHCR) -- unlike other camps on the border, which were administered by a coalition made up of UNICEF, the World Food Program, International Committee of the Red Cross (ICRC) (briefly) and, after 1982, the United Nations Border Relief Operation (UNBRO).\n\nSituated on the sparsely wooded plains in eastern Thailand a few miles from the Cambodian border, the huge compound of bamboo and thatch houses was opened on November 21, 1979 after the fall of the Khmer Rouge. Following the establishment of an emergency camp for refugees at Sa Kaeo, the Thai Ministry of the Interior authorized Mark Malloch Brown of the UNHCR to build a second camp at the foot of Khao-I-Dang Mountain.\n\nAccording to Martin Barber, Chief of UNHCR's Kampuchean Unit, \"The site, covering an area of 2.3 square kilometers on a gently sloping hill, had good drainage. It opened...after just four days of preparatory work spent in establishing the overall design of the camp and developing the basic infrastructure (roads, water tanks, and latrines) of the first \"chunk\". The camp was divided into sections of 10,000-12,000 people. Each section had space allocated for reasonable housing and for necessary services including supplementary feeding.\n\nOn October 19, 1979 Thai Prime Minister Kriangsak Chomanan enacted an \"open door\" policy which permitted Cambodian refugees to cross the border safely and to reside in specific locations. Khao-I-Dang (known to aid agencies as KID) was intended to serve as a temporary holding center for refugees who would either be repatriated to Cambodia or expatriated to third countries. On the first day 4,800 people arrived and by December 31 there were 84,800. Between November 1979 and the end of January 1980 an average of 1,600 refugees arrived in the camp each day. Thailand's open door policy was abruptly ended on January 24, 1980 and KID was \"closed\" to new arrivals.\n\nOriginally planned to hold 300,000 refugees, the population eventually reached 160,000 in March 1980. Later, as KID became the main holding center for refugees awaiting third country visas, illegal entry to the camp became highly sought after by refugees desperate to escape from Cambodia, and smuggling, theft and violence spiraled out of control. In July and August 1980 UNHCR began transferring large numbers of refugees out of KID to Phanat Nikhom, Sa Kaeo II, Mairut, and Kap Choeng. By December 1982 the population had dropped to 40,134 as refugees were forcibly repatriated, sent to third countries, or sent back to the border camps.\n\nThe presence at Khao-I-Dang of a large number of refugees with education and experience in administration, health, teaching, or technical skills reduced the language problems and allowed early involvement of refugees in all fields of activities.\n\nMany Cambodians recall spending some time at KID, including Dr Haing S. Ngor of The Killing Fields, who (as a refugee) was employed in 1979 in the 400-bed ICRC hospital. The final scene in the movie was filmed at KID in 1983, in the surgical ward where Dr. Ngor had worked. Former refugees who have described their experiences in Khao-I-Dang include Molyda Szymusiak, Chanrithy Him, Oni Vitandham and Mohm Phat.\n\nProvision of adequate food and water was a major logistical problem. Water was brought in each day by trucks from supply areas 1–2 hours away (l0-15 liters/person/day in the camp and 50-60 liters/hospitalized patient/day).\n\nEducational and medical services were provided by Thai and international relief organizations. KID soon became the most serviced camp on the Thai-Cambodian border; indeed, it was probably the most elaborately serviced refugee camp in the world. By early 1980, 37 voluntary agencies were working in the camp. Most health services were provided by ICRC, Doctors Without Borders, the Thai Red Cross, CARE, Irish Concern, Catholic Relief Services, the International Rescue Committee, the American Refugee Committee, Christian and Missionary Alliance, OXFAM, Handicap International, Malteser International, and YWAM.\n\nICRC chose KID for their first border surgical hospital where acute trauma patients were cared for, at first mainly war wounded but later large numbers of landmine victims. Surgical equipment was donated from the French hospital ship \"L'Île de Lumière\". Initially two hospitals (A and B) were constructed with 900 beds each in 17 wards: four pediatric wards, including one intensive feeding center; two wards for gynecology and obstetrics; two surgical wards, including an admission and emergency center; one tuberculosis center; and eight general medicine wards, In addition, there was a surgical unit with two operating rooms containing four operating tables, and a post-operative unit. There also were two hospital kitchens, a warehouse, a laboratory, and an x-ray room. Each ward housed 70-120 patients, and the maximal capacity of the entire facility was about 1,800 patients.\n\nThe ICRC hospital began treating patients on November 27, 1979 and during its first 54 days of operation 521 surgeries were performed, 162 of these related to war injuries, including 22 amputations. Overall, 80% of operations were emergency surgery related to trauma, with the remainder performed to alleviate severe pain or bleeding. During the first two months an average of 9.5 operations per day were performed with a maximum of 16.\n\nBy late 1980 Hospital B fell into disuse and was converted into smaller buildings for other purposes, some of which were destroyed in a fire in 1981.\n\nAs of June 1984, the medical teams working at KID ICRC Hospital consisted of four surgeons, four anaesthetists and 13 nurses sent by nine National Red Cross Societies (Belgium, Finland, France, Iceland, Japan, Norway, Sweden, Switzerland and the United Kingdom). The medical co-ordinator and the administrator of the hospital were sent by the New Zealand and the Canadian Red Cross Societies respectively. Moreover, 120 Thai and Khmer medical staff assisted these teams in their work.\n\nThe UN Secretary General Kurt Waldheim visited Khao-I-Dang Hospital on August 6, 1980, and Perez de Cuellar visited on January 27, 1985. Former President Jimmy Carter and First Lady Rosalynn Carter visited on June 6, 1985.\n\nKhao-I-Dang's size steadily declined as its population was resettled in other countries. It eventually became a camp made up of persons who had been rejected for resettlement; many had been rejected by more than one country. With the prospects of further resettlement diminishing, Thailand declared the camp closed at the end of December 1986. Relocations to border camps of the illegal camp residents began in March 1987. In response to international pressure, selection for resettlement of the residual population was extended again in 1988, after which Thai authorities officially decreed that all remaining refugees would be transferred to the border for repatriation to Cambodia. The residents of KID were vocal in opposition to what they felt was a forced repatriation and held numerous demonstrations. By December 1989 camp population was 11,600.\n\nThe camp finally closed on 3 March 1993 during the UNTAC operation when all remaining residents were moved to Site Two Refugee Camp to await repatriation to Cambodia. At the closing ceremony, then UNHCR Special Envoy Sérgio Vieira de Mello called KID a \"powerful and tragic symbol\" of the Cambodian exodus and the international humanitarian response.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "41985887", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41985887", "title": "Land reform in Zambia", "text": "Land reform in Zambia\n\nLand reform in Zambia refers to the process of land reform in Zambia.\n\nIn 2001, neighbouring Zimbabwe's government undertook aggressive land reform policies which included invasions of farms owned by White Zimbabweans. Many of those farmers moved to Zambia and took up farming again. They produced maize and tobacco on large farms.\n\n"}
{"id": "53873787", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53873787", "title": "Marcus Garvey Prize for Human Rights", "text": "Marcus Garvey Prize for Human Rights\n\nThe Marcus Garvey Prize for Human Rights is an award in the name of civil rights activist and founder of the Universal Negro Improvement Association and African Communities League (UNIA-ACL), Marcus Garvey, which has been given to distinguished individuals and human right leaders. The Rev. Dr. Martin Luther King Junior, for example, was posthumously awarded the honor on December 10, 1968. \n\nGarvey was a Jamaican political leader, publisher, journalist, entrepreneur, and orator who was a proponent of the Pan-Africanism movement, to which end he founded the UNIA-ACL. He also founded the Black Star Line, a shipping and passenger line which promoted the return of the African diaspora to their ancestral lands.\n"}
{"id": "24593127", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24593127", "title": "Maurice Wyckaert", "text": "Maurice Wyckaert\n\nMaurice Wyckaert (1923–1996) was a Belgian artist, born in 1923, in the city of Brussels. He is a neo-expressionistic, lyrical abstract painter, gouache designer and printmaker. He was educated at the Academy of Brussels (1940-47 and 1949-50) and in Sint-Joost-ten-Node and the Vrije Atelier of Sint-Lambrechts-Woluwe. He debuted with wonderful expressionistic still life, reminiscent of Jean Brusselmans. Much early work dealt with stills of vegetables. Later Wyckaert became interested by William Turner and James Ensor and their ideas of luminism.\n\nIn 1955 Wyckaert started to lyrically abstract interpret his environment, which contained noticeable influences of Eastern calligraphy. From this, he evolved to a dynamic abstract combination of attractive colors, which harmoniously shape a free interpretation of landscape. Although Wyckaert was already critically acclaimed, by receiving several honors such as the Jules Raeymaekers of the Royal Academy Award, an honorable mention by JPB (1957) and an honorable mention by Sao Paulo Art Biennial (1961), his true breakthrough began at the beginning of the 1970s. Around this time he started experimenting with gouache, printmaking and lithography.\n\nWyckaert was known for his pro-active involvement in several art movements such as being the Co-founder of Belgian art magazine \"De Meridiaan\" and \"Taptoe Brussels\" (1955). Also he was a member of Présence (1949), the Situationist International (SI) and the International Movement for an Imaginist Bauhaus and well known for his influence and intimate friendship with several CoBrA-members.\n\nHe was honored by the SI to read the \"Declaration in the Name of the Fourth SI Conference to the Institute of Contemporary Arts,\" at the Institute of Contemporary Arts on 28 September 1960. After the city of Brussels started with art projects to enhance their underground, Wyckaert was appointed to decorate the Jacques Brel metro station. He has exhibited his work in several renowned museums from Rome to Sao Paulo.\n\n\"De Meridiaan\", later published as De kunst-meridiaan, was a Flemish literary magazine that published bimonthly in Belgium and the Netherlands from 1951 until 1960. It was founded by Belgian artist Maurice Wyckaert, poet Clara Haesaert and her husband Gentil Haesaert. De Meridiaan was the main competitor of \"Tijd en Mens\", another literary magazine. Because of its success the magazine evolved from a basic regional magazine to a well-known international art magazine. In 1955 De Meridiaan founded \"Galerie Taptoe\", an artistic centrum, exhibition room and literary café in Brussels.\n"}
{"id": "14207617", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14207617", "title": "Ministry of Commerce (Myanmar)", "text": "Ministry of Commerce (Myanmar)\n\nThe Ministry of Commerce (MOC) is the Burmese government agency plays a vital role in transformation process of the implementation of market oriented economic system. Its Headquarters is located at Building 3 and 52, Nay Pyi Taw, in Myanmar.\n\n\nSince the time of independence in 1948 up to 1962, the foreign trade had been conducted by the following boards and corporations.\n\nIn 1964, the wholesales shops, broker houses, companies, departmental stores and warehouses all over the country were nationalised. In 1965, the Trade Council was established and the following trade organisations had been set up under the Ministry of Trade.\n\nIn 1976, in accordance with the economic policy of the Burma Socialist Programme Party the trade organisations had been reformed as follows,\n\nIn 1989 to be in line with the changing economic system the Department of Trade was changed as the Directorate of Trade with extended functions and responsibilities.\nIn 1989–90 the following domestic and foreign joint ventures were set up and operated.\n\n\n\nIn 1992, the Hotel and Tourism Corporation was upgraded to Ministry level and the relevant organisations, the Foodstuff and Beverages Enterprise and Hotel and Tourism Services have been transferred to the Ministry of Hotel and Tourism.\nIn 1993 Company Registration Office, Companies Control Department and the international Organisation Sections (GATT/WTO) under the Directorate of Trade were transferred to the newly established Ministry, the Ministry of National Planning and Economic Development.\nIn 1996 the Ministry of Trade was transformed as the Ministry of Commerce with a view to implement the economic activitiew for the development of national economy.\nIn 1996 the Ministry of Commerce has established the Department of Border Trade and now it is with 10 branch offices at the relevant borders of the neighbouring countries.\nIn 1997 the International Organisation Section including WTO has been retransferred from the Ministry of National Planning and Economic Development to the Ministry of Commerce.\n\nSince 1998, six trading organisations and two service enterprises under the Ministry of Commerce have been abolished. The domestic and foreign joint ventures were also abolished except Myanmar Citizens' Bank Ltd. and Myanmar Inspection and Testing Services Ltd..\nThe Ministry of Commerce laid down the motto of Advance Forward Through Commerce and it has been conducting various activities for the development of the national economy. The Ministry of Commerce has also restructured the following departments to be in line with the adopted market oriented economy since 1 April 1998.\n\nThere were the following departments\n\nDepartment of Consumer Affairs was established on 1 April 2016. There were the following divisions,\n\n\n\nMyanma Agricultural Produce Trading (MAPT) is a government organisation under the Ministry of Commerce.\n\nMAPT has laid down the following six main objectives:-\n\nManaging Director is the head of MAPT.\nUnder Myanmar Agricultural Produce Trading (MAPT), there were the following department\nWithin the organisational set-up of MAPT, there are 4 functional departments as follow:-\n\nWarehousing, Handling and Export Department\nGrain Department\nMilling, Engineering & Bran Oil Mills Department\nAdministration Department\nPost-harvest Technology Application Centre (PTAC) under MAPT undertakes the post-harvest activities, research, development and extension (RDX) works especially food grain, fruits and vegetables and issuance of certificate relating to quality of crops and analytical results of Chemical compositions, pesticides residues, Aflatoxins etc.\n\nWhat does MAPT do?\nMAPT is rendering its assistance to private sector in the following activities.\n\nExtends its fullest co-operations relating to exports of grains and imports of commodity from abroad.\nAssists to obtain the quick result relating to various laboratory test.\nProvides necessary assistance for rice milling industry and oil processing industry.\n\nOperations\nMAPT assists the following steps relating to export business that is allowed by the State to private sector especially grains exports, export of new commodities and import business as well:-\n\nundertakes the various steps of exporting business commencing from searching the markets for export commodities to final negotiation stage of the shipping documents.\nrenders its services to be smooth flow of the every processing step relating to import business.\nundertakes all necessary steps relating to shipment of export commodities.\nCarry out the rental services for warehouses if it is necessary.\nundertakes pest control services for storage of grains.\nassists necessary works to producers to become successful exporters.\nMAPT undertakes the following activities relating to the inspection services of exported goods and imported goods.\n\nconducts the preshipment inspection of commodities for export and inspection of imported commodities relating to quality / specifications, quantity, weight, measurement, packing and marking etc.\nissues the certificate of laboratory analysis and testing.\nconducts inspection and surveying services for exporters and importers with reasonable service charges for mutual benefits.\nMAPT undertakes laboratory analysis and testing of soil and water, quality of food grains and extends technical assistance on post-harvest technology.\n\nconducts services relating to analysis and testing of soil and water.\nundertakes analysis works relating to physical quality of the food grains, milling quality, fibre contents, contents of dust, husk, sand and other admixture, contents of discoloured grains etc.\nundertakes analysis and testing of qualities of foodgrains such as moisture content, composition of ash, protein, starch / carbohydrate, fibre and other chemical composition etc.\nundertakes analysis and testing on contamination of aflatoxin.\nundertakes analysis and testing of quality of oil and oil crops, colour condition, specific gravity, oil colour test, cloud point, moisture content, fat, acidity etc.\nextends technical assistance on pest control services.\nMAPT undertakes the following services relating to milling of the rice, construction and maintenance of rice mills.\n\nconducts following rice milling activities for effective improvement in quality with reasonable affordable charger.\nmilling paddy to white rice\nmilling brown rice to white rice\nremilling of rice\nrecleaning of rice and broken rice\nmilling paddy to brown rice\nassists private entrepreneurs who wish to construct new rice mills, improving develop the exifay rice mill and maintenance of existing rice mill.\nmanufactures and sales the mobile and low-cost small rice mills.\nassists privade sector in rice milling technology.\nMAPT undertakes the following services relating to edible rice bran oil mills.\nthere are other companies Such as M/s. Sundex Process Engineers Pvt. Ltd., Mumbai, Helping to set up the complete projects for rice Bran Oil Processing On turnkey basis along with consultancy for production of Refined Rice Bran oil.\n\nconducts nrocorry of edible rice bran oil with reasonable charges.\nconducts services of removing the colour, odour from various types of edible oil and purity of oil.\nconducts services of extracting oil from soyabeans, purifying raw palm oil & oil extracting from expelled cakes (groundnut cake, sesame cake) by using the chemical solvent extraction method.\nMAPT undertakes the following machinery installation services to upgrade the quality of food\ngrains : –\n\ncleaning machines of paddy and beans\ndrying machines of paddy and other grain.\nMAPT also renders the following engineering services : –\n\nconverts system of diesel engine cars, petrol engine cars and LPG cars to CNG system.\nconducts services on design modern or concentrated warehouses designs.\nconducts consultancy services relating to drawing of building design, estimating the cost for construction of rice mills, bran oil mills.\n\n"}
{"id": "17522632", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17522632", "title": "Moritz von Cohn", "text": "Moritz von Cohn\n\nBaron Moritz von Cohn (19 September 1812, Wörlitz - 29 April 1900, Dessau) was a German-Jewish private banker.\n\nAs the proprietor of a private bank in Dessau, he advanced to be court-banker to the dukes of Anhalt and also over several decades administered the private fortune of the Prussian crown prince and later emperor Wilhelm I. He thus also made himself a strong financier of the capital for railroad construction, then developing in Germany. \n\n"}
{"id": "208101", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=208101", "title": "Motion of no confidence", "text": "Motion of no confidence\n\nA motion of no-confidence, alternatively vote of no confidence, or (unsuccessful) confidence motion, is a statement or vote which states that a person(s) in a position of responsibility (government, managerial, etc.) is no longer deemed fit to hold that position, perhaps because they are inadequate in some respect, are failing to carry out obligations, or are making decisions that other members feel detrimental. As a parliamentary motion, it demonstrates to the head of state that the elected parliament no longer has confidence in (one or more members of) the appointed government.\n\nA censure motion is different from a no-confidence motion. Depending on the constitution of the body concerned, \"No Confidence\" may lead to dismissal of the Council of Ministers or other position-holder(s), whereas \"Censure\" is meant to show disapproval and does not result in the resignation of ministers. The censure motion can be against an individual minister or a group of ministers, but the no-confidence motion is directed against the entire cabinet. Again, depending on the applicable rules, censure motions may need to state the reasons for the motion while no-confidence motions may not require reasons to be specified.\n\nThere are a number of variations in this procedure in parliaments. In some countries a motion of no confidence can be directed at the government collectively or at any individual member, including the prime minister. In Spain it is presented by the prime minister after consultation. Sometimes motions of no confidence are proposed even though they have no likelihood of passage, simply to pressure a government or to embarrass its own critics, who may for political reasons decide not to vote against it.\n\nIn many parliamentary democracies, there are strict time limits for no confidence motions: they may only be allowed once every three, four or six months. Thus the timing of a motion of no confidence is a matter of political judgement; a motion of no confidence on a relatively trivial matter may prove counterproductive if a more important issue suddenly arises which actually warrants a motion of no confidence, because it cannot be proposed if one had been voted on recently. Sometimes, the government will choose to declare that one of its bills is a \"motion of confidence\" in order to prevent dissident members of their own party voting against it.\n\nTraditionally, in the Westminster system, the defeat of a supply bill (one that concerns the spending of money) is seen to automatically require the government to either resign or ask for a new election, much like a non-confidence vote. A government in a Westminster system that cannot spend money is hamstrung, also called loss of supply. When the upper house of a Westminster system country has the right to refuse supply, such as in Australia during the events of 1975, the convention is in a grey area, as Westminster governments are not normally expected to maintain the confidence of the upper house.\n\nPrior to 2011, in the British Parliament, a no-confidence motion generally first appeared as an early day motion, although the vote on the Speech from the Throne also constituted a confidence motion. However, under the Fixed-term Parliaments Act 2011, only a motion explicitly resolving \"That this House has no confidence in Her Majesty's Government\" is treated as a motion of no confidence.\n\nIn India, a motion of no confidence can be introduced only in the Lok Sabha (the lower house of the Parliament of India). The motion is admitted for discussion when a minimum of 50 members of the house support the motion. If the motion carries, the House debates and votes on the motion. If a majority of the members of the house vote in favour of the motion, the motion is passed and the Government is bound to vacate the office. Acharya Kripalani moved the first-ever no confidence motion on the floor of the Lok Sabha in August 1963, immediately after the disastrous India–China War. As of July 2018, 27 no-confidence motions have been moved. Prime Minister Indira Gandhi faced the most number of no-confidence motions – 15 times, followed by Lal Bahadur Shastri and P._V._Narasimha_Rao (thrice each), Morarji Desai (twice) and Jawahar Lal Nehru, Rajiv Gandhi, Atal Bihari Vajpayee and Narendra Modi (once each). All the no-confidence motions have been defeated except when Prime Minister Morarji Desai resigned during the discussions on 12 July 1979 and most recently no-confidence motion against Narendra Modi's (BJP) government was accepted by the lok sabha speaker, but was defeated..\n\nWith the anti-defection law, the vote of no-confidence has no relevance left in case the majority party has an absolute majority in the House. If the majority party (with an absolute majority in the House) issues a whip to party members to vote in favor of the Government, then it is impossible to remove the Government by a no-confidence motion. Hence the no-confidence exercise of House merely becomes the no-confidence exercise of the Party.\n\nIn Italy, the government requires the support of both houses of Parliament. A vote of no confidence may be proposed if one tenth of the members of a single house sign the proposition and starting from three days before the appointed date, said vote can be brought into discussion. Following the case of Filippo Mancuso in 1995 and the subsequent Constitutional Court sentence in 1996, it is possible to propose an individual vote of no confidence against a single minister instead of the whole government.\n\nIn Germany, a vote of no confidence in the Federal Chancellor requires that the opposition, on the same ballot, propose a candidate of their own whom they want to be appointed as successor by the Federal President. Thus, a motion of no confidence can only be brought forward if there is a positive majority for the new candidate (this variation is called a constructive vote of no confidence). The idea was to prevent crises of the state such as those found near the end of the German Weimar Republic. Frequently, Chancellors were turned out of office without their successors having enough parliamentary support to govern. Unlike the British system, the Chancellor does not have to resign in response to the failure of a vote of confidence, provided it has been initiated by them and not by the parliamentary opposition, but rather may ask the President to call general elections – a request the President may or may not fulfill.\n\nArticle 69 of the 1947 Constitution of Japan provides that \"if the House of Representatives passes a non-confidence resolution, or rejects a confidence resolution, the Cabinet shall resign en masse, unless the House of Representatives is dissolved within ten (10) days.\"\n\nIn federal politics, a vote of no confidence takes down the government, and votes of no confidence may be asserted automatically if the House of Commons rejects the government's budget. Provincial governments may also fall if a motion of no confidence is passed by the legislature or if the legislature fails to pass a confidence measure (e.g. the provincial budget).\n\nIn the consensus government system of the Northwest Territories and Nunavut, in which the premier is chosen among and by a vote of the members of the non-partisan legislature, a vote of no confidence removes the premier and cabinet from office and permits the members to elect a new premier.\n\nIn the Australian Parliament, a motion of no-confidence requires a majority of the members present in the House of Representatives to agree to it. The House of Representatives currently consists of 150 members; requiring 76 votes in favour of the motion when all members of the House are present. A straight vote of no confidence in a government, or a motion or amendment censuring a government, has never been successful in the House of Representatives. Despite this, on eight occasions governments have either resigned or advised a dissolution following their defeat on other questions before the House. The last time a government resigned after being defeated in the House came in October 1941, when the House rejected the budget of Arthur Fadden's minority government.\n\nSpecific motions of no confidence or censure motions against the Prime Minister, ministers, the Leader of the Opposition, Senators and leaders of political parties have been moved and have been successful on some occasions. Motions of no confidence against the government may be passed in the Senate, yet may have little or no impact in the House.\n\nOn 7 August 2017, Speaker Baleka Mbete announced that she would permit a motion of no confidence in Jacob Zuma's government to proceed in the National Assembly via secret ballot. It was the eighth motion to be brought against Zuma in his presidency and the first to be held via secret ballot. After the vote was held the next day, the motion was defeated 198–177, with 25 abstentions. Around 20 ANC MPs voted in favor of the measure.\n\nThe Constitution of Pakistan has provision for a no-confidence motion in all constituents of the Electoral College of the state. The motions can target speakers and deputy speakers of provincial and national assemblies, the Prime Minister, chief ministers of provinces, as well as the Chairman and Deputy Chairman of Senate. Before it can be put for vote on the pertinent house's floor, it needs to have the backing of at least 20% of the elected members in all cases except those moved against speakers or deputy speakers, in which case there is no minimum support limit. After being put to vote, the motion is only deemed successful once passed by a majority.\n\nIn terms of history, the no-confidence has mostly been used in removing speakers and deputy speakers. Of the 11 times the motion has been invoked in the country's parliamentary history, 9 motions targeted these posts with 4 being effective. An incumbent Prime Minister of Pakistan has only been subject to a no-confidence vote once, in November 1989, when Benazir Bhutto faced an ultimately unsuccessful motion moved by Ghulam Mustafa Jatoi. The same is the case for a provincial chief minister, as the only instance of its use is the one moved against Chief Minister of Balochistan, Sanaullah Zehri in January 2018, which was successful as Zehri resigned before the vote could take place.\n\nIn semi-presidential systems, the legislature may occasionally pass motions of no confidence, which removes only the cabinet and prime minister, the legislature may also have the power to impeach an executive or judicial officer, with another institution or the legislature removing the officer from their office.\n\nIn the Russian Federation, the lower house of parliament (the State Duma) may by a simple majority (i.e. at least 226 votes out of 450) pass a motion of no confidence against the Government of Russia as a whole. In this case, the matter goes for consideration of the President, who may choose to dismiss the cabinet (which the President can do at any moment in time at his own discretion anyway) or just to ignore the Duma's decision. Should the Duma pass a second motion of no confidence against the same composition of the cabinet within three months, the President will be forced to make a concrete decision – to dismiss the government or to dissolve the Duma itself and call for new general elections. The State Duma may not be dissolved on these grounds if it was elected less than a year earlier, if it has already initiated impeachment proceedings against the President himself by bringing respective accusations, if less than six months is left until elections of the President, or if there is a state of emergency or martial law throughout the whole territory of Russian Federation. In the above-mentioned cases, the President would therefore be effectively forced to dismiss the Government.\n\nThe first motion of no confidence occurred in March 1782 when, following news of the British defeat at Yorktown in the American Revolutionary War the previous October, the Parliament of Great Britain voted that they \"can no longer repose confidence in the present ministers\". Prime Minister Lord North responded by asking King George III to accept his resignation. This did not immediately create a constitutional convention. During the early 19th century, however, attempts by prime ministers such as Robert Peel to govern in the absence of a parliamentary majority proved unsuccessful, and by the mid-19th century, the power of a motion of no confidence to break a government was firmly established in the UK.\n\nIn the United Kingdom, 11 prime ministers have been defeated through a no-confidence motion. There has been only one (against James Callaghan) since 1925.\n\nIn modern times, passage of a motion of no confidence is a relatively rare event in two-party democracies. In almost all cases, party discipline is sufficient to allow a majority party to defeat a motion of no confidence, and if faced with possible defections in the government party, the government is likely to change its policies rather than lose a vote of no confidence. The cases in which a motion of no confidence has passed are generally those in which the government party's slim majority has been eliminated by either by-elections or defections, such as the 1979 vote of no confidence in the Callaghan ministry in the UK which was carried by one vote, forcing a general election which was won by Margaret Thatcher's Conservative Party.\n\nMotions of no confidence are far more common in multi-party systems in which a minority party must form a coalition government. This can mean that there have been many short-lived governments because the party structure allows small parties to defeat a government without means to create a government. This has widely been regarded as the cause of instability for the French Fourth Republic and the German Weimar Republic. More recent examples have been in Italy between the 1950s and 1990s, Israel, and Japan.\n\nTo deal with this situation, the French placed a greater degree of executive power in the office of its President, who is immune from motions of no confidence, along with a two-round plurality voting system that makes easier the formation of stable majority governments.\n\nIn 2008, Canadian Prime Minister Stephen Harper, of the re-appointed minority government of Canada, requested that Governor-General Michaëlle Jean prorogue Parliament. The request was granted, and it allowed the Prime Minister to delay a potential vote on the non-confidence motion presented by the opposition. (See 2008–2009 Canadian parliamentary dispute.) Three years later, in 2011, Harper's minority government was defeated by a motion of non-confidence declaring the government to be in contempt of Parliament, leading to the election that year.\n\nIn 2013, during the Euromaidan pro-EU riots, the opposition in Ukraine called for a motion of no confidence against the Cabinet of Ministers and pro-Russian, Euroskeptic Prime Minister Mykola Azarov. At least 226 votes were needed to gain a majority in the Verkhovna Rada, Ukraine's parliament. However, it fell 40 votes short, and Azarov's government prevailed.\n\nOn 1 June 2018, the Government of Mariano Rajoy was ousted after a motion of no confidence passed 180–169 following the sentence of the Gürtel corruption scandal which involved the ruling party. Pedro Sánchez of the PSOE was sworn in as the new Prime Minister. This is the first time in Spanish history that a vote of no confidence has resulted in a change of government.\n\n"}
{"id": "2117165", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2117165", "title": "Motives for spying", "text": "Motives for spying\n\nThere are many motives for spying. Espionage usually carries heavy penalties, with spies often being regarded as traitors, so motivating factors for it must usually be quite strong.\n\nThere have been various attempts to explain why people become spies. One common theory is summed up by the acronym MICE: Money, Ideology, Compromise or Coercion (depending on source), and Ego or Extortion (depending on source). Another is the RASCLS framework:\n\nFor many spies, the primary motivation is the prospect of financial gain. Spies may seek to supplement their existing income, or to remedy financial difficulties. Sometimes these spies are detected due to extravagant spending of the money they receive. John Anthony Walker is an example of a spy who worked for money.\n\nSome people become spies because of their beliefs. These can include political opinions, national allegiances, and cultural or religious beliefs. This was particularly true during the Cold War, when many spies were motivated by their support for the ideologies of either the Western world or the Communist bloc. Examples of spies with ideological motivations include Kim Philby and Klaus Fuchs (communist), Fritz Kolbe and Juan Pujol (anti-Nazi), Nathan Hale (pro-American independence), Harriet Tubman (anti-slavery), and Ana Montes (pro-Cuban).\n\nNot all spies enter into service willingly; sometimes they are threatened into providing secret information.\n\nThreats of injury or death are the most direct forms of coercion. For example, Mathilde Carré, a member of the French Resistance, was captured by the Nazis and threatened with torture unless she became a double agent. Threats may also be made against the target's family or friends—Svetlana Tumanova was told by the KGB that her family in the Soviet Union would be harmed if she did not cooperate; and Ronald Humphrey said that he had helped North Vietnam in order to obtain the release of his Vietnamese wife.\n\nA more subtle form of coercion is blackmail, where someone threatens to release compromising information about a person unless they provide them with secret information. A wide range of material can be used for blackmail, including evidence of extramarital affairs, homosexuality, and undiscovered crimes. The spies John Vassall and Colonel Alfred Redl were threatened with revelations about their homosexuality. Sometimes, traps of this sort may be laid to collect blackmail material; Vassall was almost certainly set up, as was Clayton Lonetree, who was blackmailed after an affair with a Soviet agent. William Sebold, a German-born American, was threatened by the Nazis with revelations that he lied in order to immigrate. Sebold, however, quickly betrayed the Nazis, indicating a major problem with the use of coercion: The target, with no loyalty to their blackmailers, will turn on them when possible.\n\nThe roles of ego and pride in motivating spies has occasionally been observed, but is often hard to demonstrate. In some situations, a person can be enticed to spy by the sense of importance or significance it gives them—they cease being a minor functionary, and have a substantial, albeit covert, effect. The target often gains a sense of superiority over his or her colleagues, whom he or she is outwitting. Robert Hanssen is an example of someone who, though paid handsomely, decided to spy due to arrogance.\n\nIn rare cases a spy may be motivated by the excitement of tradecraft alone. It is possible, although hard to observe and demonstrate, that excitement and thrills play a part in some spies' decisions, and seems particularly likely if they are bored with their life. Excitement is seldom a spy's primary motivation, but may be a contributing factor. One notable example is Christopher Cooke, who claimed to be fascinated with espionage, and who told investigators he specifically sought to involve himself in spycraft for that reason.\n\nSome spies are motivated largely by personal, non-ideological hostility towards the country or organisation they are spying on. This may stem from some real or imagined wrong—a person may, for example, betray secrets to the enemy if they feel they have not received sufficient recognition or compensation, or that they have been treated badly. Liu Liankun, a general in the People's Republic of China, is believed to have begun spying for Taiwan after he was falsely accused of corruption and denied a promotion. Another case is that of Earl Edwin Pitts, who, in defence of his espionage, cited various instances of alleged poor treatment by his employer, the FBI.\n\nA spy may be motivated by personal connections and relationships. In some cases, secret information may be passed on due to a family connection, friendship, romantic link or sexual relationship. The spouses and friends of active spies may be drawn into the spy's activities; an example is Rosario Ames, wife of Aldrich Ames.\n\nSexual seduction is a well-established means of spy recruitment. For example, Katrina Leung was accused of using this method to gain access to secret FBI counterintelligence documents.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "32358912", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32358912", "title": "Municipal clerk", "text": "Municipal clerk\n\nA clerk is a senior official of many municipal governments in the English-speaking world. In some communities, including most in the United States, the position is elected, but in many others, the clerk is appointed to their post. In almost all cases, the actual title of the clerk reflects the type of municipality he or she works for, thus, instead of simply being known as the \"clerk\", the position is generally referred to as the town clerk, township clerk, city clerk, village clerk, borough clerk, board secretary, or county clerk. Other titles also exist, such as recorder. The office has existed for centuries, though in some places it is now being merged with other positions.\n\nThe duties of a municipal clerk vary even more than their titles. Particularly in the United States, it is difficult to fully describe a clerk's duties, because there are hundreds of different jobs a clerk may fulfill. In some U.S. states, there \"are\" provisions in the state constitutions delineating the clerk's duties, but in other states, each municipality decides for itself what role the clerk plays, or even, if there need be a clerk at all.\n\nThe origins of the position of \"clerk\" are unclear. In ancient Greece there were secretaries for each polis who read official documents publicly and at the opening of a meeting read public curses. The early keepers of the archives were often called remembrancers, and before writing came into use, their memory was public record. When the early colonists came to America, one of the first offices established was that of clerk. The colony at Plymouth appointed a person to act as a recorder.\n\nIn New South Wales state, for over a century, the chief administrative officer of a city or borough was also legally designated the Town Clerk. This continued until 1993, when the NSW Local Government Act 1993 was passed and the Officer became called the 'General Manager of the Local Council/Shire'.\n\nMajor Canadian city councils will have a city clerk as chief administrative officer:\n\n\nIn New Zealand, for over a century, the chief administrative officer of a city or borough was also legally designated the Town Clerk. This continued until the 1970s, when the city and county administrative procedures were largely merged and the Local Government Act 1974 declared that every such person (along with his or her rural counterpart, the county clerk) should henceforth be styled the \"Chief Administrative Officer\".\n\nThe Local Government Act 2002 changed the title again, this time to Chief Executive.\n\nIn the United Kingdom, the town clerk is the senior administrative officer of the city, borough or town, usually the most senior salaried employee of the council. In most unitary authorities the town clerk has now been renamed the chief executive, although the original name is retained in most smaller towns. The town clerks of the larger county boroughs frequently received knighthoods, and the chief executives of large authorities sometimes still do. The equivalent officer in counties and districts was the clerk to the council (now also designated chief executive) and in (non-town) parishes is the parish clerk, usually part-time, but still a paid official, whose main responsibility is the administration and minuting of parish council meetings and parish council finance. The Town Clerk of London is an important executive position with a staff and significant budget.\n\nOn ceremonial occasions, the town clerk wears a gown of black silk ottoman/grosgrain of the lay pattern with panel sleeves and a flap collar. The gown is trimmed with rows of braid and tassels. This gown is similar to the gown of undergraduate fellow and gentleman-commoners in the ancient universities of Oxford and Cambridge. The town clerk also wears a wig similar to that of barristers.\n\nIn the United States, the clerk often serves as the official keeper of the municipal records, and as such, is sometimes described as the \"historian\" of the community. Sometimes the Clerk's Office is limited to just presenting the agenda and minutes for the legislative and committee meetings. Official meetings of municipalities can become a serious chore as the activity in the town increases with a larger population. The task of assembling the agenda packets with supporting documents can take several days for a single meeting. It becomes more complicated due to the input and iterative modification by numerous departments and agencies, both within and external to the organization. Software applications that can easily assemble agendas, minutes, and even automatically transcribe the meetings are now becoming more common. Often, these agendas and meeting minutes are downloadable by interested citizens by accessing the organization's website.\n\nThere are over 3,200 County Clerks and county equivalent court clerks in the United States. County Clerks can help genealogists and family researchers locate various physical documents including marriage (licenses), divorce, arrest, public, jail, judicial, probate, criminal, and court records.\n\nClerks may also be responsible for issuing licenses, overseeing local elections, maintaining financial records, serving as registrar of vital statistics, and increasingly, for assuring the transparency of the municipality's conduct of business.\n\nIn California, the City Clerk is the local official who administers democratic processes such as elections, access to city records, and all legislative actions ensuring transparency to the public. The City Clerk acts as a compliance officer for federal, state, and local statutes including the Political Reform Act, the Brown Act, and the Public Records Act. The City Clerk manages public inquiries and relationships and arranges for ceremonial and official functions.\n\nIn Illinois, clerks may also exist on the \"township\" level, which is a subdivision of the county. Such clerks are sometimes required to serve more than one governmental unit, due to the often overlapping jurisdictions that exist in Illinois.\n\nIn Massachusetts, the Town Clerk is the chief election official of a town and the keeper of permanent and vital records. The duties of Town Clerks vary slightly in each community. Massachusetts clerks who have been in office five or more years may be elected by special ballot initiative to a lifetime term with mandatory retirement at age 70, after which they may remain in office if they run for successive terms.\n\nNew York state law provides for elected Town and County Clerks who have separately defined responsibilities. (Under Article XIII, §13(a) of the New York Constitution, the County Clerks within New York City are not elected, but instead \"shall be appointed, and be subject to removal, by the appellate division of the supreme court in the judicial department in which the county is located.\") For example, marriage licenses and dog licenses are issued by town clerks while business certificates and real property deeds are maintained by county clerks. Appointed historians are also required at each level. City clerks may administer elections but, outside cities, county election commissioners head the election apparatus.\n\nWest Virginia Code provides for an elected recorder in Class IV towns (those with fewer than 2,000 people) and in some larger municipalities. By default, recorders act as mayor pro tem of the municipal government in the absence of the actual mayor. Recorders also serve as members of and secretary to the city or town council, as well as recorder of deeds, archivist, and municipal supervisor of elections. In some smaller towns' governments, recorders additionally fill the role of financial officer. Many municipalities delegate some or all of these duties to an employee with the title of city or town clerk, while others may divide them between the recorder and the clerk. The recorder or clerk may even have authority by ordinance to issue warrants for arrest, although this power normally resides in a municipal judge.\n\n"}
{"id": "19162414", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19162414", "title": "New York State Restaurant Association v. New York City Board of Health", "text": "New York State Restaurant Association v. New York City Board of Health\n\nNew York State Restaurant Association v. New York City Board of Health is a case decided by the Second Circuit United States Court of Appeals. The case arose after New York City passed a law in January 2007 to become the first American city to require restaurant chains to state the number of calories in everything on their menus. The New York State Restaurant Association (NYSRA) sued, arguing infringement of commercial freedom of speech under the First Amendment. The NYSRA also argued that the Nutrition Labeling and Education Act (NLEA) of 1990 and FDA regulations New York's calorie posting regulation. The Second Circuit rejected all of the Restaurant Association's claims and upheld the New York City law. Congressman Henry Waxman, who was the NLEA's chief sponsor, joined an amicus brief in support of New York City's position and was represented by Public Citizen Litigation Group.\n"}
{"id": "5362538", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5362538", "title": "PIK loan", "text": "PIK loan\n\nA PIK, or payment in kind, is a type of high-risk loan or bond that allows borrowers to pay interest with additional debt, rather than cash. That makes it an expensive, high-risk financing instrument since the size of the debt may increase quickly, leaving lenders with big losses if the borrower is unable to pay back the loan.\n\nThere are three types of PIKs, which are characterized by differences in interest repayment.\n\nTrue PIKs, also known as \"mandatory\" PIKs, establish the interest payment structure at the time of issuance. That is to say, there is \"no variation from period to period other than as scheduled at the time of issuance\". Interest is required to be paid solely in kind or through a combination of cash and in kind interest, and may shift to all cash at a given point in time, but all of this is predetermined and agreed upon at issuance.\n\nPIK toggles, also known as \"pay if you want\", are slightly less risky than PIKs, as borrowers pay interest in cash and may \"toggle\" to payment in kind at the discretion of the borrower (\"pay if you want\"). Sometimes, the borrower may also be able to PIK some portion of the interest (usually half) while paying the rest in cash; at times, only some of the interest may be paid in kind and the rest is cash-only. This also benefits borrowers, as they may opt for early payment of interest in cash, thereby minimizing the compounded payout at maturity. The documentation often provides that if the PIK feature is activated, the interest rate is increased by 25, 50, or 75 basis points.\n\nThe first company to try a PIK toggle was Neiman Marcus in late 2005.\n\nThis is a different type of PIK toggle, also known as \"contingent cash pay\" or \"pay if you can\", where borrowers pay interest in cash and only \"toggle\" to payment in kind under certain conditions; for example, if there is insufficient cash, usually determined by a cash flow trigger.\n\nPIKs are primarily used for leveraged buyouts, dividend recapitalizations, and, more rarely, to finance acquisitions.\n\nIn leveraged buyouts, PIKs is used if the purchase price of the target exceeds leverage levels up to which lenders are willing to provide a senior loan, a second lien loan, or a mezzanine loan, or if there is no cash flow available to service a loan (i.e., due to dividend or merger restrictions). It is typically provided to the acquisition vehicle, either another company or a special purpose entity (SPE), and not to the target itself.\n\nPIKs in leveraged buyouts typically carry a substantially higher interest and fee burden compared to senior loans, second lien loans, and mezzanine loans of the same transaction. With yield exceeding 20% per annum, the acquirer has to be very diligent in assessing whether the cost of a PIK does not exceed the internal rate of return of equity investment.\n\nBefore the credit crunch of 2008, several leveraged buyouts have seen some secured second-lien term bank loans coming with PIK or, more frequently, PIK toggle features, in order to support the firm's ability to cover cash interest during the initial period after the leveraged buyouts. If the acquired company performs well, the PIK toggle feature allows the equity sponsor to avoid giving extraordinary returns to the PIK debt, which might happen if the debt were strictly PIK. The PIK toggle largely disappeared in the wake of the credit crunch, though in early 2013 there were signs of a tentative comeback. Towards mid-2013, PIK toggle loans returned in force as the high-yield bond market in the United States and, to some degree, Europe shifted into high gear.\n\nOne high-profile use of PIKs involved the controversial takeover of Manchester United Football Club by Malcolm Glazer in 2005. Glazer used PIK loans, which were sold to hedge funds, to fund the takeover, much to the displeasure of many of the club’s supporters, because the burden of the debt was placed on the club itself, not the Glazers.\n\nIn January 2018, Irish entrepreneur Paul Coulson used a $350 million PIK bond to pay a dividend to a group of shareholders at the Ardagh Group, for which Coulson is the largest shareholder and chairman. The \"Financial Times\" interpreted the use of a high-risk PIK bond to be indicative of \"the level of risk that debt investors are willing to tolerate as they seek higher yields in hot credit markets\". This was unusual because the PIK was raised by a newly formed holding company, with analysts and investors referring to the novel structure as a \"SuperHoldCo PIK note\" or \"super PIK\".\n\nPIKs are typically unsecured (i.e., not backed by a pledge of assets as collateral) and/or are characterized by a deeply subordinated security structure (e.g., third lien). Maturities usually exceed five years and the PIK usually carries a detachable warrant—the right to purchase a certain number of shares of stock or bonds at a given price for a certain period of time—or another mechanism that allow the lender to share in the future success of the business. This makes it a hybrid security.\n\nPIK lenders, typically special funds, look for a certain minimum internal rate of return, which can come from three major sources: arrangement fees, PIKs, and warrants (there are also minor sources, like ticking fees). The arrangement fee, which is usually payable up-front, contributes the least return and serves to cover administrative costs. PIKs accrue interest period after period, thus increasing the underlying principal (i.e., compound interest). The achieved selling price of the shares acquired under the warrant is also a part of the total return of the lender. Typically, refinancing PIK loans in the first years is either completely restricted or comes at a high premium (i.e. prepayment protection) to meet the internal requirements of investing funds.\n\nInterest on PIKs is substantially higher than debt of higher priority, thus making the compound interest the dominating part of the repayable principal. In addition, PIK loans typically carry substantial refinancing risk, meaning that the cash flow of the borrower in the repayment period will usually not suffice to repay all monies owed if the company does not perform excellently. By that definition, PIK lenders prefer borrowers with strong growth potential. Because of the flexibility of the loan, there are basically no limits to structures and borrowers. Plus, in most jurisdictions the accruing interest is tax deductible, providing the borrower with a substantial tax shield.\n\n"}
{"id": "9057046", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9057046", "title": "Pocket listing", "text": "Pocket listing\n\nA pocket listing or hip pocket listing is a real estate industry term used in United States which denotes a property where a broker holds a signed listing agreement (or contract) with the seller, whether that be an \"Exclusive Right to Sell\" or \"Exclusive Agency\" agreement or contract, but where it is never advertised nor entered into a multiple listing system (MLS), or where advertising is limited for an agreed-upon period of time. In Canada, this is referred to as an Exclusive Listing.\n\nThe reasons for a pocket listing may vary from the need for privacy or secrecy to discrimination, and some sellers may have their own reasons for not advertising a listing in conventional ways, including wanting to sell only to certain types of people. Several legitimate marketing strategies can also lead sellers to choose pocket listings. Pocket listings can be very appealing to buyers who seek exclusive opportunities. Other legitimate reasons for a seller to decide to do a pocket listing include the potential for a faster, smoother transaction when the listing agent has buyer clients who may be interested in the property. It can reduce the need for many showings to strangers.\n\nMany full-time agents have knowledge of pocket listings in their own office or in other offices of their own company. While many MLS systems may try to limit this type of listing by requiring execution of a written notice relative to the benefits of MLS publicity, they may encourage members to refrain from taking pocket listings. There are some companies which list property as pocket listings for a short time before entering it into their MLS. With the written agreement of the seller, this would allow the company to try to obtain both the listing side and the \"selling\" side of the commission, an industry term known as \"both sides of the transaction\". The L.A. Loft Blog reports that up to 45% of transactions in Downtown Los Angeles since 2011 have been off-market, private listings such as pocket listings.\n\nA real estate company which is not a member of any MLS may have pocket listings, but may still be willing to cooperate with other real estate professionals in the sale of their listings.\n\nA broker or agent having a Pocket Listing can sometimes imply that the property will be sold directly to a buyer by the seller's agent.\n\nSome brokerages are starting to provide private pocket listing services for the public and investors that allow them to act as a dual-agent in the transaction. Most notably, Pocket Deed has recently opened to the public from Beta testing in the Portland, OR area that allows brokers to promote their pocket listings in a centralized location. They secure Pocket Listings by keeping the exact property address hidden and display the property location within a 1/2 mile radius of where the property is located. \n\nPocket listings may be used for properties of any price. Pocket listings are not restricted to the most exclusive high-end homes.\n\nPocket listings are not \"Open Listings\". An open listing is an Agreement between a seller and a broker whereby the property is available for sale by any real estate professional who can advertise, show, or negotiate the sale, and whoever brings an acceptable offer would receive compensation. \n\nReal estate companies will typically require that a written agreement for an open listing be signed by the seller to ensure the payment of a commission. \"For Sale By Owners\" (FSBOs) often also offer open listings by signing an agreement to pay a broker who brings them an acceptable offer, but these will usually not be pocket listings.\n\nIn an \"Exclusive Right to Sell Agreement\", the broker normally agrees to cooperate with other brokers and to share a portion of the total real estate commission paid by the seller. However, in a pocket listing situation, it is stated that the property shall not be placed in an MLS, and thus there is no agreement to work cooperatively with other brokers. \n\nAn alternative form of Agreement might be \"Exclusive Agency\" where only the broker is given the right to sell the property, and no offer of compensation is ever made to another broker. In that case, the property will never be entered into an MLS.\n\n"}
{"id": "46388962", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46388962", "title": "Puyalón de Cuchas", "text": "Puyalón de Cuchas\n\nPuyalón de Cuchas (or simply Puyalón) is an Aragonese left-wing nationalist political party formed in 2008, after a split from the Chunta Aragonesista.\n\nThe main objectives of Puyalón are achieving full national sovereignty for Aragón and building a socialist society. The party also supports the minority languages of Aragón: Catalan and Aragonese, feminism, ecologism and the integration of immigrants.\n\nThe first participation by Puyalón in elections was in the local elections of 2011, when the party gained a town councillor in Artieda. In the European elections of 2014 Puyalón supported (and participated in) The Peoples Decide, gaining 1,241 votes (0.27% of the vote in Aragón). In the municipal elections of 2015 Puyalón gained 2 town councillors, 1 in Artieda (Raúl Ramón Iguácel) and another in Pastriz (Rubén Ramos, elected in the list Ganar Pastriz).\n"}
{"id": "25476464", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25476464", "title": "Quebec-Israel Committee", "text": "Quebec-Israel Committee\n\nThe Quebec-Israel Committee \"(French: Comité Québec-Israël)\" is an organization in the Canadian province of Quebec. Devoted to pro-Israel advocacy, it is a member of the Canadian Council for Israel and Jewish Advocacy (CIJA) and an affiliate of the Canada-Israel Committee (CIC).\n\nThe committee's activities include missions to Israel and media monitoring. It also organizes a yearly rally in downtown Montreal to commemorate Israel's independence day.\n\n"}
{"id": "3929903", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3929903", "title": "Queensland Tertiary Admissions Centre", "text": "Queensland Tertiary Admissions Centre\n\nThe Queensland Tertiary Admissions Centre (QTAC) provides a centralised tertiary study application system and publishes entry requirements and course information for prospective applicants. Established in 1990, QTAC is a non profit, public company.\n\nQTAC currently processes tertiary study applications for universities in Queensland, Tasmania and northern New South Wales, TAFE Queensland and various tertiary colleges. The institutions that participate in QTAC have complete autonomy in determining their own admission requirements. Once these are determined, QTAC's role is to ensure that the admission rules are correctly administered on behalf of these institutions.\n\nQTAC operates a year-round application system with tertiary offers being made throughout the year for courses commencing in first, second, third and summer semesters.\n\nQTAC currently acts on behalf of the following 16 institutions:\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "41956836", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41956836", "title": "Ranger Uranium Environmental Inquiry", "text": "Ranger Uranium Environmental Inquiry\n\nRanger Uranium Environmental Inquiry (RUEI) (also known as the Fox Report) was a committee established by the Whitlam Government in Australia, which sought to explore the environmental concerns surrounding uranium mining.\n\nAccording to the National Archives of Australia:\nThe Inquiry found that if uranium mining was properly regulated and controlled, its hazards were not sufficient to prevent the development of the mines. The Inquiry recommended the establishment of a comprehensive system of environmental monitoring and research, overseen by a coordinating committee representing all the agencies involved, and chaired by a supervising scientist. It also recommended the granting of Aboriginal title to a substantial part of the region and the creation of a national park.\n"}
{"id": "591969", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=591969", "title": "Rhythms of Resistance", "text": "Rhythms of Resistance\n\nRhythms of Resistance, sometimes abbreviated to RoR, is a network of percussion bands that play at demonstrations and direct actions that fall within the broad definition of 'anti-capitalist'. Since RoR London was formed in 2000, similar groups have arisen around the world; while not all such bands use the Rhythms of Resistance name, they generally share the same ideology, described on the RoR website:\n\nThe RoR bands are often referred to as the \"samba bands\", although many bands incorporate instruments and rhythms from outside of the samba genre.\n\nRoR has similarities to the Afro Bloc parading drum bands that emerged in the mid 1970s in Salvador da Bahia in Brazil. Bands such as Ilê Aiyê and Olodum formed as a political expression of black awareness, resisting economic exclusion. Coming out of some impoverished urban communities, Afro blocs became a mobilising focus on picket lines and marches.\n\nRhythms of Resistance formed as part of the UK Earth First action against the International Monetary Fund/World Bank meeting in Prague in September 2000. A Pink and Silver carnival bloc, focused around a fifty-five piece band, detached itself from a march of 67,000 and outmaneuvered police resources defending the IMF annual summit. The protests also included a black bloc and a group from the Italian Ya Basta movement, and led to the shutting down of the summit.\n\nFollowing this event, similar groups formed elsewhere making use of the same tactics. The Amsterdam band formed in for the Rising Tide Actions against the Cop6 Climate Conference in November 2000 and joined together with ten drummers from Rhythms of Resistance to form a sixty-five piece band. Rhythms of Resistance groups can now be found across Europe and in North America.\n\n"}
{"id": "4276139", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4276139", "title": "Roefie Hueting", "text": "Roefie Hueting\n\nRoelof (Roefie) Hueting (born December 16, 1929) is a Dutch economist, former Head of the Department for Environmental Statistics of Statistics Netherlands, pianist and leader of the Down Town Jazz Band, known for the developed of the concept of Sustainable National Income (SNI).\n\nHueting was born in The Hague, son of Bernardus Hueting and Elisabeth Hueting-Steinvoorte. In 1949 he founded the Down Town Jazz Band, and earned his living as musician during his studies at the University of Amsterdam. Started in 1951, he received his MA in Economics in 1959. In 1974 he obtained his Ph.D. in economics (cum laude) at the University of Groningen with the thesis \"New scarcity and economic growth: More welfare through less production?\" under supervision of Jan Pen.\n\nIn 1959 he started as assistant public accountant. From 1962 till 1969 he was labour market researcher at the Ministry of Social Affairs, and from 1965 till 1968 at the Ministry of Housing and Physical Planning. After joining the Statistics Netherlands in 1969 he founded its Department of Environmental Statistics. Until his retirement in 1994 he chaired the Department for Environmental Statistics.\n\nIn 1991 he was decorated Officer of the Order of Orange-Nassau, and in 1994 awarded the United Nation Global 500 award.\n\nHueting developed the theoretical and practical framework of the Sustainable national income (SNI). Already in 1970 he published a collection of articles over the years 1967-1970 titled: “What is nature worth to us?”. He has analyzed the environment from the neoclassical point of view of scarcity and developed the concept of Sustainable National Income (SNI). The implication of the SNI is that the statistical measure of economic growth is revised.\n\nThe concept of sustainability was presented for the first time at The World Conservation Strategy, IUCN, 1980: \"This is the kind of development that provides real improvements in the quality of human life and at the same time conserves the vitality and diversity of the Earth. The goal is development that will be sustainable. Today it may seem visionary but it is attainable. To more and more people it also appears our only rational option\". (UNEP, IUCN, WWF)\n\nThere are various possible descriptions of this area of research but a good one is provided as follows:\n\nExamples of ecological suicide are given by Jared Diamond in his book \"Collapse\".\n\nNeoclassical economics finds opposition from ecological economics, while that opposition would be less needed due to Hueting's more neoclassical analysis of the environment. The neoclassical SNI has different results than e.g. Robert Costanza et al. (1997). This suggests that more discipline is required in this discipline.\n\nHueting has authored and co-authored numerous published. Books, a selection\n\nArticles, a selection:\n\n"}
{"id": "9455709", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9455709", "title": "Root Force", "text": "Root Force\n\nRoot Force is a biocentric, decentralized, international direct-action campaign devoted to \"[dismantling] the system that is killing and enslaving [the] planet and its people.\" Its slogan is \"Demolishing Colonialism At Its Foundations.\"\n\nRoot Force describes itself as \"a strategic campaign designed to exploit weak points in the global economy and hasten the system’s collapse. Root Force ... promotes anti-infrastructure analysis and action, based on the recognition that infrastructure expansion is a weak point of the system.\" \n\nThe Root Force campaign incorporates analysis characteristic of the Latin American solidarity, radical environmental and anti-globalization movements. According to campaign literature, ills such as environmental destruction, war, and genocide against indigenous peoples are caused by a global system and cannot be eliminated without eliminating that system. As examples of the names given to this system, Root Force cites \"'neoliberalism,' 'capitalism,' 'the state' or 'civilization.'\"\n\nThe campaign strategy is founded on the premise that the US economy depends upon imports from Latin America to continue functioning, and that these imports depend upon \"transportation, energy, and communications infrastructure.\". For this reason, Root Force opposes infrastructure expansion projects such as the Plan Puebla Panama and the Initiative for the Integration of South American Infrastructure.\n\nLike other segments of the anti-globalization movement, it also directs criticism and encourages action against international financial institutions, including the Inter-American Development Bank and the Central American Bank for Economic Integration.\n\nAn eight-page spread about Root Force was published in the September–October 2006 issue of the Earth First! Journal. At this time, the campaign sought to interfere with the expansion of global trade infrastructure in Latin America by targeting the corporations involved in specific infrastructure projects: La Parota dam in Guerrero, Mexico and the Anillo Periférico highway in San Salvador, El Salvador.\n\nIn October 2006, a \"Root Force Road Show\" traveled the eastern US to publicize the campaign. This was followed by a western road show in 2007.\n\nIn January 2007, Root Force, along with Rising Tide North America, Arizona Earth First! and a Florida group called Justicia Global, called for boycotts and protests of CompUSA, Kmart and Sears due to links between those companies and plans for La Parota dam.\n\nIn February 2008, Root Force issued a statement titled \"A Revised Strategy,\" saying that because the campaign had failed to generate direct action against La Parota dam or the Anillo Periférico to date, the group would be changing its focus to promoting anti-infrastructure analysis and action, providing resources for those fighting infrastructure, and facilitating connections between people and groups fighting infrastructure.\n\n"}
{"id": "66505", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=66505", "title": "Secrecy", "text": "Secrecy\n\nSecrecy (also called clandestinity or furtiveness) is the practice of hiding information from certain individuals or groups who do not have the \"need to know\", perhaps while sharing it with other individuals. That which is kept hidden is known as the secret.\n\nSecrecy is often controversial, depending on the content or nature of the secret, the group or people keeping the secret, and the motivation for secrecy. Secrecy by government entities is often decried as excessive or in promotion of poor operation; excessive revelation of information on individuals can conflict with virtues of privacy and confidentiality. It is often contrasted with social transparency.\n\nSecrecy can exist in a number of different ways, such as through obfuscation, where secrets are hidden in plain sight behind for example complex idiosyncratic language or steganography; encoding or encryption where mathematical and technical strategies are used to hide messages; and true secrecy, where restrictions are put upon those who take part of the message, such as through government security classification.\n\nAnother classification proposed by Claude Shannon in 1948 reads there are three systems of secrecy within communication:\n\nAnimals conceal the location of their den or nest from predators. Squirrels bury nuts, hiding them, and they try to remember their locations later.\n\nHumans attempt to consciously conceal aspects of themselves from others due to shame, or from fear of violence, rejection, harassment, loss of acceptance, or loss of employment. Humans may also attempt to conceal aspects of their own self which they are not capable of incorporating psychologically into their conscious being. Families sometimes maintain \"family secrets\", obliging family members never to discuss disagreeable issues concerning the family with outsiders or sometimes even within the family. Many \"family secrets\" are maintained by using a mutually agreed-upon construct (an official family story) when speaking with outside members. Agreement to maintain the secret is often coerced through \"shaming\" and reference to family honor. The information may even be something as trivial as a recipe.\n\nSecrets are sometimes kept to provide the pleasure of surprise. This includes keeping secret about a surprise party, not telling spoilers of a story, and avoiding exposure of a magic trick.\n\nKeeping one's strategy secret is important in many aspects of game theory.\n\nIn anthropology \"secret sharing\" is one way for men and women to establish traditional relations with other men and women. A commonly used narrative that describes this kind of behavior is Joseph Conrad's short story \"The Secret Sharer\".\n\nGovernments often attempt to conceal information from other governments and the public. These state secrets can include weapon designs, military plans, diplomatic negotiation tactics, and secrets obtained illicitly from others (\"intelligence\"). Most nations have some form of Official Secrets Act (the Espionage Act in the U.S.) and classify material according to the level of protection needed (hence the term \"classified information\"). An individual needs a security clearance for access and other protection methods, such as keeping documents in a safe, are stipulated.\n\nFew people dispute the desirability of keeping Critical Nuclear Weapon Design Information secret, but many believe government secrecy to be excessive and too often employed for political purposes. Many countries have laws that attempt to limit government secrecy, such as the U.S. Freedom of Information Act and sunshine laws. Government officials sometimes leak information they are supposed to keep secret. (\"For a recent (2005) example, see Plame affair.\")\n\nSecrecy in elections is a growing issue, particularly secrecy of vote counts on computerized vote counting machines. While voting, citizens are acting in a unique sovereign or \"owner\" capacity (instead of being a subject of the laws, as is true outside of elections) in selecting their government servants. It is argued that secrecy is impermissible as against the public in the area of elections where the government gets all of its power and taxing authority. In any event, permissible secrecy varies significantly with the context involved.\n\nOrganizations, ranging from multi-national for profit corporations to nonprofit charities, keep secrets for competitive advantage, to meet legal requirements, or, in some cases, to conceal nefarious behavior. New products under development, unique manufacturing techniques, or simply lists of customers are types of information protected by trade secret laws. The patent system encourages inventors to publish information in exchange for a limited time monopoly on its use, though patent applications are initially secret. Secret societies use secrecy as a way to attract members by creating a sense of importance.\n\nShell companies may be used to launder money from criminal activity, to finance terrorism, or to evade taxes. Registers of beneficial ownership aim at fighting corporate secrecy in that sense.\n\nOther laws \"require\" organizations to keep certain information secret, such as medical records (HIPAA in the U.S.), or financial reports that are under preparation (to limit insider trading). Europe has particularly strict laws about database privacy.\n\nIn many countries, neoliberal reforms of government have included expanding the outsourcing of government tasks and functions to private businesses with the aim of improving efficiency and effectiveness in government administration. However, among the criticisms of these reforms is the claim that the pervasive use of \"Commercial-in-confidence\" (or secrecy) clauses in contracts between government and private providers further limits public accountability of governments and prevents proper public scrutiny of the performance and probity of the private companies. Concerns have been raised that 'commercial-in-confidence' is open to abuse because it can be deliberately used to hide corporate or government maladministration and even corruption.\n\nPreservation of secrets is one of the goals of information security. Techniques used include physical security and cryptography. The latter depends on the secrecy of cryptographic keys. Many believe that security technology can be more effective if it itself is not kept secret.\n\nInformation hiding is a design principle in much software engineering. It is considered easier to verify software reliability if one can be sure that different parts of the program can only access (and therefore depend on) a known limited amount of information.\n\nA military secret is information about martial affairs that is purposely not made available to the general public and hence to any enemy, in order to gain an advantage or to not reveal a weakness, to avoid embarrassment, or to help in propaganda efforts. Most military secrets are tactical in nature, such as the strengths and weaknesses of weapon systems, tactics, training methods, plans, and the number and location of specific weapons. Some secrets involve information in broader areas, such as secure communications, cryptography, intelligence operations, and cooperation with third parties.\n\nExcessive secrecy is often cited as a source of much human conflict. One may have to lie in order to hold a secret, which might lead to psychological repercussions. The alternative, declining to answer when asked something, may suggest the answer and may therefore not always be suitable for keeping a secret. Also, the other may insist that one answer the question. Nearly 2500 years ago, Sophocles wrote, \"Do nothing secretly; for Time sees and hears all things, and discloses all.\" And Gautama Siddhartha, the Buddha, once said \"Three things cannot long stay hidden: the sun, the moon and the truth\". The Bible addresses this: \"Be sure your sin will find you out.\" Numbers 32:23\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4105208", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4105208", "title": "South African general election, 1970", "text": "South African general election, 1970\n\nThe 1970 South African general election was held on 22 April for the 166-seat House of Assembly. Parliament was dissolved on 2 March and the deadline for the submission of candidates was 13 March. This was the first time in South African history that the House elected was responsible entirely to white people, as the seats of the four MPs elected separately by \"qualified\" Cape Coloured expired in the same year.\n\nThe National Party (NP) won another election, for the first time under the leadership of John Vorster. Several new representatives were elected, including Chris Heunis, future Acting President and Pik Botha, future Minister of Foreign Affairs for 17 years, who made his maiden speech demanding that the government sign the UN Declaration of Human Rights.\n\nHowever, the NP lost some support in parliament for the first time since the 1948 election, its number of seats being reduced by eight. This could be attributed to losing votes to the right-wing splinter Herstigte Nasionale Party (Reconstituted National Party). While it did not win any seats, the split in the nationalist voter base benefitted the main opposition United Party (UP) in some constituencies.\n\nHelen Suzman, member of parliament for Houghton, retained her seat as the sole representative of the liberal Progressive Party.\n\nElections were held in 155 of the 166 constituencies (11 members elected unopposed). There were 2 028 487 registered voters and 1 508 248 votes were cast (74.7% of voters in contested constituencies).\n\n<nowiki>*</nowiki> one seat was filled in a subsequent by-election\n"}
{"id": "31256", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31256", "title": "Tax law", "text": "Tax law\n\nTax law or revenue law is an area of legal study which deals with the constitutional, common-law, statutory, tax treaty, and regulatory rules that constitute the law applicable to taxation.\n\nPrimary taxation issues facing the governments world over include;\n\nIn law schools, \"tax law\" is a sub-discipline and area of specialist study. U.S. law schools require 30 semester credit hours of required courses, 60 hours or more of electives and a combined total of at least 90 credit hours completed. Law students must choose available courses on which to focus before graduation with the J.D. degree in the United States. This freedom allows law students to take many tax courses such as federal taxation, estate and gift tax, and estates and successions before completing the Juris Doctor and taking the bar exam in a particular U.S. state.\n\nMaster of Laws (LL.M) programs are offered in Canada, United States, United Kingdom, Australia, Netherlands and an increasing number of countries. Many of these programs focus on domestic and international taxation. In the United States, most LL.M. programs require that the candidate be a graduate of an American Bar Association-accredited law school. In other countries a graduate law degree is sufficient for admission to LL.M. in Taxation law programs.\n\nThe Master of Laws (LL.M) program is an advanced legal study.\n\nGeneral Requirements\n\nThe Juris Doctor (JD) program is offered by only a number of countries. These include, United States, Australia, Canada, Hong Kong, Japan, Philippines, Singapore and the United Kingdom. The courses vary in duration of years, curriculum and whether or not further training is required, depending on which country the program is in.\n\nGeneral Requirements\nA list of tax faculty ranked by publication downloads is maintained by Paul Caron at TaxProf Blog.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "54158834", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54158834", "title": "Ukrainian Women's Union", "text": "Ukrainian Women's Union\n\nThe Ukrainian Women's Union (UWU) was founded in 1920 by Milena Rudnytska along with , Iryna Sichynska, and others, to organize women's journals, conferences, and cooperatives. At the time, Ukrainians in the former province of Galicia, which had been part of the Austro-Hungarian Empire were under Polish rule. Though formed in what was technically Poland, the organization strove to unite all Ukrainian women who were not living in Soviet Ukraine. Unlike Western-style feminist organizations, the UWU was not primarily made up of elites, nor did it focus on attainment of political agency for women. Instead, the focus was on modernizing society through community initiatives and self-improvement programs. Between 1921 and 1930, their goal was to establish economic and cultural structures which could be used to improve the quality of life of all Ukrainians and bring their nationalist cause to the attention of international organizations. In December 1921, the UWU hosted a formal congress to formalize its organization and by 1930 had between 50,000 and 100,000 members. Specific numbers are difficult to attain because Polish authorities at the time prohibited Ukrainians from consolidating their membership into one organization. Some 80 regional branches representing around 1,100 local organizations were formed. From 1931 to 1938, the goals turned more toward political feminism and economics rights-based advocacy.\n\nLeadership of the group understood feminist principals, but they did not pursue a feminist agenda until they had increased their membership and initiated economic and social reforms to improve the lives of Ukrainian families. Many of the leaders were from women's clubs such as the temperance clubs and from the intelligentsia, such as teachers. Most of the membership was from the peasant class and the entire organization based its direction on work rather than theory. Leadership stressed the need for organized social activity to improve lives. The UWU carried out activities like sponsoring art cooperatives which encouraged peasants to create goods, and then collected their handicrafts, exhibited and sold them, fostering a market for their products.\n\nPolitically, the group served as a nationalist organ, encouraging political unity for the betterment of all Ukrainians. Because Ukrainian women lived in a non-sovereign state, it was imperative for them to forge their gender identity along the lines of national identity. The UWU of Lviv's leadership were actively involved with the Ukrainian National Democratic Alliance, an organization designed to coordinate Ukrainian political responses in Poland. Rudnytska, as a member of the Polish Sejm worked to overcome issues such as suppression of Ukrainian language schools. To bring the case of Ukrainian nationalism to the international arena, the UWU joined such organizations as the International Council of Women, the International Woman Suffrage Alliance and the Women's International League for Peace and Freedom. Speaking out against the 1932–1933 famine and Nazi antifeminist policies, the UWU attempted to expand women's spheres in the 1930s.\n\nIn 1934, the UWU in Galicia hosted another congress, ostensively to bolster Ukrainian native culture. The four-day event was attended by around 10,000 delegates and the focus was on active participation of women and their importance in the community affairs of Ukrainian society. In 1935, the UWU founded a journal, \"Zhinka\" (Woman) which was edited by Shaparovych and which spoke on education, equality, economic opportunity and training, motherhood, and other women's issues. They also produce articles on exercise and nutrition and public involvement to encourage women to develop a modern sensibility of citizenship. Though the UWU was criticized by Catholic intellectuals, liberals and radicals, the organization managed to maintain its autonomy and the support of peasant population until the outbreak of World War II. On 5 May 1938, the Polish police arrested all of the leadership in all branches of the UWU, thus ending the operations of the most influential Ukrainian women's organization.\n\n"}
{"id": "1607216", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1607216", "title": "Western Block Party", "text": "Western Block Party\n\nThe Western Block Party (WBP) was a political party in Canada founded in 2005 by Doug Christie. The party was registered on December 29, 2005, and deregistered on January 31, 2014.\n\nThe aim of the party was to promote the independence of Western Canada (British Columbia, Alberta, Saskatchewan, and Manitoba) from the rest of Canada.\n\nThe party's founding convention was held on November 20, 2005, in Sidney, British Columbia. Christie was unanimously confirmed as leader. A constitution was adopted and a full slate of officers were elected.\n\nWestern independence movements typically attract support from westerners who believe that western Canada does not get a fair deal within the Canadian confederation. The Western Block Party claim attracts members of differing economic views who are opposed to what they view as a corrupt federal government.\n\nThe party had four candidates in the 2006 federal election, including its leader, Doug Christie, who ran in the riding of Esquimalt—Juan de Fuca in British Columbia; none were elected. In the 2008 election, the party unsuccessfully ran one candidate, Patricia O'Brien, in Saanich—Gulf Islands. In both these elections the party's total vote count was second fewest of all parties. The party ran four candidates in the 2011 federal election, improving its standing only to third fewest due to a new party taking the second fewest standing.\n\nChristie was also the leader of the Western Canada Concept Party of British Columbia, a political party that promotes separation at the provincial political level in British Columbia.\n\nChristie was a lawyer in Canada who is well known for representing Ernst Zündel, among others. The Western Canada Concept (WCC) and WBP are not affiliated with the Separation Party of Alberta (SPA) or the Western Independence Party of Saskatchewan (WIPS). Officials in these parties have distanced themselves from Christie. The WIPS is currently attempting to establish a separate federal party, which would be called the Western Canada Party. Christie died March 11, 2013; Paul St. Laurent was subsequently appointed interim leader.\n\nThe party was deregistered by Elections Canada in January 2014 for failing to declare at least 250 members.\n\nIn the 2006 election, the party ran four candidates, received 1,094 votes, which is 0.0074% of the total votes cast, or 0.46% of the votes in those four electoral districts. The four candidates, their total votes, and percentages were:\nThe party ran a sole candidate, Patricia O'Brien, in 2008 and four candidates in 2011 including far right anti-immigration activist Paul Fromm, an Ontario resident, who ran in Calgary Southeast.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "20200632", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20200632", "title": "World Charter for Prostitutes' Rights", "text": "World Charter for Prostitutes' Rights\n\nThe World Charter for Prostitutes' Rights is a declaration of rights adopted in 1985 to protect the rights of prostitutes worldwide. It was adopted by the International Committee for Prostitutes’ Rights (ICPR).\n\nThe distinction between voluntary and forced prostitution was developed by the prostitutes' rights movement in response to feminists and others who saw all prostitution as abusive. The World Charter for Prostitutes' Rights calls for the decriminalisation of \"all aspects of adult prostitution resulting from individual decisions.\" The World Charter also states that prostitutes should be guaranteed \"all human rights and civil liberties,\" including the freedom of speech, travel, immigration, work, marriage, and motherhood, and the right to unemployment insurance, health insurance and housing. Furthermore the World Charter calls for protection of \"work standards,\" including the abolition of laws which impose any systematic zoning of prostitution, and calls for prostitutes having the freedom to choose their place of work and residence, and to \"provide their services under the conditions that are absolutely determined by themselves and no one else.\" The World Charter also calls for prostitutes to pay regular taxes \"on the same basis as other independent contractors and employees,\" and to receive the same benefits for their taxes.\n\nIn an article announcing the adoption of the World Charter, the United Press International reported: \"Women from the world's oldest profession, some wearing exotic masks to protect their identity, appealed Friday at the world's first international prostitutes' convention for society to stop treating them like criminals.\"\n\nLaws\n\nHuman Rights\n\nWorking Conditions\n\nHealth\n\nServices\n\nTaxes\n\nPublic Opinion\n\nOrganization\n\nThe World Charter emerged from the prostitutes' rights movement starting in the mid-1970s. It was established through the two World Whores Congresses held in Amsterdam (1985) and Brussels (1986) which epitomised a worldwide prostitutes' rights movement and politics. The Charter established a human rights based approach which has subsequently been further elaborated by the prostitutes' rights movement.\n\nIn 1999, the \"Santa Monica Mirror\" commented on the popularization of the term \"sex worker\" as an alternative to \"whore\" or \"prostitute\" and credited the World Charter, among others, for having \"articulated a global political movement seeking recognition and social change.\"\n\nIn 2000, the Carnegie Council published a report commenting on the results of the World Charter, fifteen years after its adoption. The report concluded that the human rights approach embodied in the World Charter had proved \"extremely useful for advocates seeking to reduce discrimination against sex workers.\" For example, human rights advocates in Australia utilized the language of human rights to resist “mandatory health tests” for sex workers and to require that information regarding health be kept confidential. However, the report also found that efforts to define prostitution as a human rights abuse had led some governments to take action to abolish the sex industry.\n\nAnd in 2003, a writer in the journal \"Humanist\" noted that the World Charter had become \"a template used by human rights groups all over the world.\"\n\nThe World Charter was initially met with scepticism and ridicule. \"Time\" reported: \"Just what were all those hookers doing in the hallowed halls of the European Parliament in Brussels last week? The moral outrage echoing in the corridors may have suggested that a re-creation of Sodom and Gomorrah was being staged. Reason: about 125 prostitutes, including three men, were attending the Second World Whores Congress.\" The \"Philadelphia Daily News\" asked, \"Does it contain a layoff clause?\" Another writer referred to it derisively as \"a Magna Carta for whores\".\n\nThe Charter remains controversial, as some feminists consider prostitution to be one of the most serious problems facing women, particularly in developing countries. In Jessica Spector's 2006 book \"Prostitution and Pornography\", Vednita Carter and Evelina Giobbe offer the following critique of the Charter:\"Pretending prostitution is a job like any other job would be laughable if it weren't so serious. Leading marginalized prostituted women to believe that decriminalization would materially change anything substantive in their lives as prostitutes is dangerous and irresponsible. There are no liberating clauses in the World Charter. Pimps are not 'third party managers.'\"\n\n"}
{"id": "4030083", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4030083", "title": "World Passport", "text": "World Passport\n\nThe World Passport is a fantasy travel document sold by the World Service Authority, a non-profit organization founded by Garry Davis in 1954.\n\nThe World Passport is similar in appearance to a genuine national passport or other such authentic travel document. In 1979 the World Passport was a 42-page document, with a dark blue cover, and text in English, French, Spanish, Russian, Arabic, Chinese, and Esperanto. It contained a five-page section for medical history and a six-page section for listing organisational affiliation. The fee charged at that time was US$32 plus postage for a three-year World Passport that could be renewed for a further two years.\n\nThe version of the World Passport current was produced in January 2007. It has an embedded \"ghost\" photo for security, covered with a plastic film. Its data page is in the format of a machine-readable passport, with an alphanumeric code bar in the machine-readable zone (MRZ) enabling it to be scanned by an optical reader. However, in place of a valid ISO 3166-1 alpha-3 code in the MRZ \"issuer\" and \"nationality\" fields, it uses the non-standard code \"WSA\".\n\nAccording to the WSA website, the fee is $55 for a three-year World Passport, $75 for five years, and $100 for ten years. A \"World Donor Passport\" valid for fifteen years with a special cover is issued gratis to donors of at least $400 which, according to the WSA, is used to provide free documents to refugees and stateless persons. In addition, the customer can choose between two World Passport covers: \"World Passport\" or \"World Government Passport\". The WSA recommends their customers to purchase the second option. \n\nA potential customer must provide as proof of identity a notarized certification of the details on the form, a copy of their national identity papers, or a fingerprint from their right index finger. People have been known to obtain World Passports in names other than their legal names; see the relevant section below.\n\nThe appearance is so similar to a genuine passport that in 1974 a criminal case was lodged against Garry Davis in France regarding his issuance of World Passports.\nAccording to the WSA, the version of the document introduced in 2007 was filed as a Machine Readable Travel Document (MRTD) with the International Civil Aviation Organization (ICAO). However, ICAO documents on MRTDs cite the World Service Authority and its World Passport as an example of \"Fantasy Documents\".\n\nSuccess in crossing a border using a World Passport is generally attributable to the whim or ignorance of individual immigration officers, not official recognition of the document. The World Service Authority website has scans of letters dating from many decades ago from six countries (Burkina Faso, Ecuador, Mauritania, Tanzania, Togo and Zambia) which the WSA claims is legal recognition of the World Passports. These letters of recognition are several decades old (i.e., 1954 for Ecuador, 1972 for Burkina Faso, 1975 for Mauritania, 1995 for Tanzania, 1983 for Togo, 1973 for Zambia) and reasonable doubt exists about today's effective acceptance.\n\nAccording to the World Service Authority website, some World Passports have reportedly been accepted on a case-by-case basis by over 180 countries (i.e., they have been stamped with a national visa or entry or exit stamp), and according to the World Service Authority some countries in the past accorded the document legal recognition.\n\nThe World Passport came under increased international scrutiny in 1996, after the hijacking of the MS \"Achille Lauro\". In the aftermath of the incident, one of the captured hijackers, Youssef Majed al-Molqi, escaped imprisonment in Italy and used a World Passport which he had purchased in 1988 to leave the country and travel to Spain before he was recaptured.\n\nMany countries and territories say they do not recognize the World Passport because it is not issued by a competent government authority, and thus does not meet the definition of a passport. By 1975, Garry Davis had already been detained twenty times for his attempts to cross international borders with a World Passport.\n\nThe Russian government states that it does not recognise the World Passport. In a 1995 interview with \"Kommersant\", a spokesman for the Russian Ministry of Foreign Affairs' Department of Consular Services stated that the World Passport is not an acceptable document for proving identity or citizenship status at Russian border crossings; only a diplomatic passport, official passport, seaman's passport, or general civil passport are accepted. However, one Russian media report claims that some members of the House of Romanov, travelling to Saint Petersburg for the reburial of the remains of one of their ancestors, were permitted by Russian authorities to obtain visas in their World Passports, in light of the special situation.\n\nIn December 2008, a man claiming to be a Russian citizen attempted to cross the border from Latvia into Belarus at the Urbany checkpoint using a World Passport; he stated he lost his Russian documents while in Sweden. He was arrested by the Belarusian border guards. A spokesman for Belarus' State Border Committee in an interview with a local newspaper stated that Belarus does not accept the World Passport at border crossings. He also claimed it was the first known case of its kind in the country.\n\nThe United States Department of State's official position on the World Passport is that it is a booklet produced by a private organisation upon payment of a fee, and not a passport. As early as 1991, the US Air Transport Association specifically included the World Passport in a training film as an example of unacceptable travel papers. In 2012, a Belizean man attempted to enter the U.S. through the Veterans International Bridge at Los Tomates using a World Passport. The man in question had prior felony convictions for drug trafficking and immigration offences, and had previously been deported from the United States multiple times. He claimed that he wanted to speak with President Obama about genocide in Belize. In a bench trial, Judge Andrew S. Hanen found the man guilty of felony attempted re-entry after deportation.\n\nPeace activist Kenneth O'Keefe tried to travel to Iraq using a World Passport in 2003, but was rejected transit rights by Turkey, and had to apply for an American passport to continue his journey.\n\nIn 2004, two men from China on board Cathay Pacific Flight 302 from Hong Kong to Guangzhou attempted to pass through immigration at Guangzhou Baiyun International Airport using World Passports. The officers at the airport arrested them for illegal entry.\n\nAlso, though Garry Davis claims to have traveled to India using a World Passport and to have given one personally to Jawaharlal Nehru, in May 2007 an Indian citizen was arrested for attempting to \"leave\" India at Begumpet Airport using a World Passport. The man, intending to travel to the United States, had purchased what he believed was a genuine passport and visa. His travel agency and Air India staff both accepted his World Passport, but Indian immigration did not. The Times of India called it a clear case of \"internet fraud\" and stated that the man had been \"duped\".\n\nThe Council of the European Union has a table of travel documents entitling the holder to cross external borders of Schengen states and which may be endorsed with a visa; the World Passport is listed as a fantasy passport to which a visa may not be affixed.\n\nIn February 2013, both Panama and Costa Rica rejected the use of the World Passport by Sage Million, a fugitive from Hawaii.\n\nHip-hop artist and actor Yasiin Bey (Mos Def) was arrested in South Africa on January 15, 2016 for attempting to leave the country using a World passport. He had entered the country using an American passport and had lived in Cape Town since May 2013. South Africa's Department of Home Affairs released a statement saying that Mr. Bey would be allowed to appeal the immigration action and possibly seek permanent residency.\n\nThe World Service Authority sells World Passports to refugees and other people who are unable to obtain valid, authentic travel documents. According to the WSA, refugees in camps are given free World Passports. WSA reports that it \"has [given out] more than 10,000 free World Passports to refugees residing in camps throughout the world\" and that it \"has documentary evidence that the issuance of such passports may permit refugees to leave such camps to seek asylum elsewhere or to claim other rights often denied to refugees\". However, many of those refugees have found World Passports to be useless. According to statements by Garry Davis in the mid-1970s, major users of World Passports at the time included persons in Southeast Asia fleeing from wars, as well as holders of Rhodesian passports who were otherwise unable to travel internationally as no other country accepted their documents besides South Africa. \n\nMany East African refugees arriving in Nordic countries in the early 1990s had World Passports. In July 2011, a Georgian citizen attempted to pass through Latvian border control with a World Passport, though he also had a valid Georgian passport in his possession; after presenting his World Passport, he requested asylum in Latvia.\n\nAnother category of users of World Passports are stowaways on ships. Vessel owners are legally responsible for the stowaways until they can find a country to let them ashore, but countries are often reluctant due to questions over the validity of the stowaways' documents. From 1992 to 2006 the WSA sold their document to such individuals on five occasions.\n\nThe World Service Authority promotes the World Passport not just as a document for international travel, but a \"neutral, apolitical document of identity\". Investor Doug Casey, himself a World Passport customer, has suggested that a World Passport is useful at hotels and other non-governmental institutions where security is uncertain; if one is asked to hand over one's real passport in such situations, one can provide the World Passport instead of a genuine national passport. Governmental authorities do not share this assessment.\n\nThe Criminal Records Bureau of the United Kingdom Home Office states that registered bodies should not accept the World Passport as a proof of identity, warning that \"a fake 'World Passport' can be purchased online by members of the public and should not be confused with a genuine passport\". The Isle of Man's Financial Supervision Commission, which regulates the isle's banks and company formation agents, states that the World Passport is not an acceptable document to prove either the nationality or identity of the bearer. Specifically, it classifies it as a spurious or fantasy passport, a term which it defines to mean as documents which \"have the appearance of a passport, but are issued by organisations with no authority and to which no official recognition has been given\".\n\nThe United States Social Security Administration will also not accept any World Service Authority document (including the World Passport and World Donor Passport) as evidence of identity, age, citizenship, alien status, or marital status for either claims or enumeration purposes. The Virginia Department of Social Services explicitly classifies all World Service Authority documents as \"unacceptable documents\" for verification of identity. The United States Department of State instructs all U.S. embassies and consulates not to provide any notarial, apostille, or other authentication services in respect of World Passports, whether regarding the World Passport itself or documents relating to the purchase of a World Passport. They warn that such documents could be used for fraudulent or criminal purposes. In 1996 a man was able to buy a World Passport in a name that was not his own, but was detected after repeated attempts to use it to prove his identity when opening accounts at various banks in Indiana, without providing a verifiable address or telephone number. He was convicted of fraud on a financial institution.\n\nRegardless of its almost universal lack of acceptance, an individual may also seek to obtain a World Passport as part of a political statement. A number of Russian citizens have obtained the World Passport as a form of protest against the \"red tape\" imposed by the Russian government on their own citizens aiming to travel abroad. In 1977, two mayors of West Bank towns bought World Passports during a visit by Garry Davis.\n\nDespite its limited acceptance, other entities have also sought to manufacture and sell the fantasy travel document, without the consent of the WSA. The Isle of Man's Financial Supervision Commission reports that they have identified counterfeit World Passports. Also, the first cross-jurisdictional fake passport case ever found in Guangzhou, Guangdong, China involved counterfeit World Passports. In February 1981, the local Public Security Bureau identified some Hong Kong criminals who were charging World Passport customers more than ¥18,000 (more than US$10,000 at the official exchange rate at that time) in processing fees, and misrepresenting to them that World Passport customers could settle in any country in the world.\n\nAs mentioned above, Russia does not accept World Passports, but in the 1990s, many company formation agents in Russia sold the World Passport together in a package-deal with the setup of an offshore company (international business company), and falsely claimed that all countries of the world accept it as an identity document. In some cases, such companies charged up to US$1,000 for the document alone.\n\nIn Malaysia in 1994, a Nigerian man was arrested at the Central Market, Kuala Lumpur by tourist police during an identity check, after he showed a World Passport. A search of his belongings showed that he carried a total of five World Passports, as well as a real Nigerian passport that had been used by another person to travel to Malaysia and Hong Kong. Authorities suspected he might have been trying to sell the fantasy travel documents to other foreign nationals lacking valid travel documents.\n\nMany notable people have owned World Passports. Although some may have purchased them, the WSA typically gives them to prominent people. \n\nGarry Davis, the WSA founder, owned World Passport No. 1, originally manufactured in 1954. Others who have been given what the WSA refers to as \"honorary World Passports\" include heads of state such as Indian prime minister Jawaharlal Nehru, Dwight D. Eisenhower, the 34th president of the United States, and Václav Havel, last president of Czechoslovakia and first president of the Czech Republic.\n\nOthers include activists such as Edward Snowden, NSA whistleblower, and Julian Assange, founder of WikiLeaks.\n\nEntertainers have also been given or purchased World Passports, including Yehudi Menuhin, Patrick Stewart, actor, of Star Trek and X-Men fame, and LeVar Burton, of Star Trek and Roots fame. \n\nCriminals and terrorists who have owned World Passports include Triston Jay Amero, an American man charged with hotel bombings in Bolivia, and Youssef Majed al-Molqi, one of the hijackers of the MS \"Achille Lauro\" in 1985.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "54008984", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54008984", "title": "Young ANO", "text": "Young ANO\n\nYoung ANO () is a political youth organisation in the Czech Republic. It is the youth wing of ANO 2011. It was established in 2015.\n\nYoung ANO was founded on 1 May 2015 on a Steamboat \"Šumava\" during 1 May celbration of ANO 2011. It had 120 membersand Kateřina Reiblová became the first leader. She resigned in July 2015. Leader of ANO 2011 Andrej Babiš stated that she was disgusted by media. She was replaced by Tomáš Krátký who was elected new Chairman during the first Convention of Young ANO.\n\n"}
