{"id": "56099711", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56099711", "title": "Airwars", "text": "Airwars\n\nAirwars is a London, UK-based not-for-profit company that tracks and archives the international air war against Islamic State and other groups in Iraq, Syria and Libya, and assesses and follows up on credible allegations of civilian casualties from coalition and Russian airstrikes.\n\nAirwars was founded by investigative journalist Chris Woods in the fall of 2014. It was registered in England and Wales as a private company limited by guarantee in August 2016.\n\nAirwars draws on a number of information sources including NGOs, monitoring groups such as the United Nations Assistance Mission in Iraq (UNAMI), international and local news agencies, social media sites including local residents’ groups, in-country researchers, Facebook pages, YouTube footage of incidents, tweets relating to specific events and from military and other government sources.\n\nSources of funding include Joseph Rowntree Charitable Trust, Open Society Foundations and .\n\n"}
{"id": "651934", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=651934", "title": "Anti-incumbency", "text": "Anti-incumbency\n\nAn anti-incumbent vote is one exercised against elected officials currently in power. It allows the voters to register their discontent with sitting government officials, particularly when protesting against certain actions taken by the government or the elected officials in question.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "6710240", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6710240", "title": "Arab lobby in the United States", "text": "Arab lobby in the United States\n\nThe Arab lobby in the United States is a collection of formal and informal groups and professional lobbyists paid directly by Arab governments or Arab Citizens in the United States that lobby the public and government of the United States on behalf of Arab interests and/or on behalf of Arab American rights in the United States.\n\nAccording to Mitchell Bard in an article for the Jewish Virtual Library, Isaiah L. Kenen, the founder of American Zionist Committee for Public Affairs or \"AZCPA\" (which became American Israel Public Affairs Committee or \"AIPAC\"), wrote of the Arab lobby's roots in the 1950s \"petro-diplomatic complex\" that comprised the \"oil industry, missionaries, and diplomats.\" Bard states that in 1951 King Saud of Saudi Arabia asked U.S. diplomats to finance a pro-Arab lobby to counter AZCPA. Bard in his book \"\", states that the approach has not changed since the days of King Saud; the basic message, according to Bard, is that the Saudis and other Arab States of the Persian Gulf have the oil and will supply it to America and its allies on the condition that America keeps the Arab ruling families in power. Bard further states that the subsidiary clause is that the Arab oil states will also purchase arms ($100 billion worth over the last 50 years) to keep themselves in power and able to produce oil.\n\nBard also alleges \"blackmail\" . He claims that from time to time the United States criticized the oil states for denying human rights to their own citizens, sponsoring militants who attack Israel, spreading extremist forms of Islam around the world, and supporting terrorism in many countries, but this criticism in rapidly reined in by threatening to cut off the oil supply.\n\nThe National Association of Arab-Americans (\"NAAA\"), founded in 1972, was a political advocacy group whose goals were \"to strengthen U.S. relations with Arab countries and to promote an evenhanded American policy based on justice and peace for all parties in the Middle East.\" In the early 1970s there was growing anti-Arab sentiment related to the Arab–Israeli conflict and the 1973 oil embargo, leading to government investigations, executive orders, and legislative provisions to combat terrorism. These especially impacted on Arab American rights and activism. The response was the creation of groups like the Association of Arab-American University Graduates, the American-Arab Anti-Discrimination Committee and the Arab American Institute.\n\nAccording to Michael Lewis, Director of Policy Analysis for the American Israel Public Affairs Committee, for many years these groups worked together on the Palestinian issue, including through newspaper, direct mail and advertising campaigns against U.S. loan guarantees to Israel and states' purchase of Israel bonds, condemnation of Israeli human rights and calls for the U.S. government to pressure Israel, as well pro-Palestinian protests and letter-writing campaigns. Lewis states that they also offered testimony to congress and criticized Israel's congressional and organizational supporters, sought to pass pro-Palestinian resolutions in state and national party platforms; offering pro-Palestinian testimony before Congress and attempted to sue Israel in U.S. courts. According to Lewis after the Palestine Liberation Organization had reached an agreement with Israel, there was some division among the groups, however they continue to lobby for Palestinians.\n\nMany of the players in the Arab lobby are paid directly by Arab governments. \"The New York Times\" describes them as an \"elite band of former members of Congress, former diplomats and power brokers who have helped Middle Eastern nations navigate diplomatic waters here on delicate issues like arms deals, terrorism, oil and trade restrictions.\" Powerful lobbyists working on behalf of the Arab lobby include Bob Livingston, Tony Podesta, and Toby Moffett. Arab governments have paid \"tens of millions of dollars\" to \"top\" lobbying firms that work to influence the American government. This includes the Saudi Arabia lobby, Egypt lobby and the Libya lobby.\n\nIn the wake of 9/11, Saudi Arabia hired the lobbying firms Patton Boggs and Qorvis, paying $14 million a year.\n\nLobby fees paid by Arab governments to individual firms \"commonly\" reach levels of $50,000 and above. In 2009 alone the United Arab Emirates spent $5.3 million, as the Emirates were seeking nuclear technology. In 2009 Morocco spent $3 million and Algeria spent $600,000 on Washington, D.C. lobbyists, and Turkey spent $1.7 million. According to Howard Marlowe, president of the American League of Lobbyists, \"These kinds of regimes have a lot of money at their disposal, and that'’s a great attraction.\"\n\nAccording to ProPublica, 4 of the top 10 governments lobbying in Washington are Arab, in terms of spending. The United Arab Emirates places first, having spent $10,914,002 in 2007 and 2008. Iraq, Morocco and Saudi Arabia also each spent over $3 million, and the non-Arab, Middle Eastern nation of Turkey also spent over $3 million.\n\nIn June 2017, Qatar began a \"massive lobbying campaign\" in the U.S. after President Donald Trump sided with Saudi Arabia, the United Arab Emirates, and other Arab countries in imposing a blockade against Qatar. Through August 2018, \"Qatar has hired 35 US lobbying firms and paid them a total of at least $19.5 million.\" According to disclosure filings, \"The lobbyists contacted hundreds of members of the US Congress and dozens of journalists and Trump administration officials while spending millions of dollars on advertising that promotes Qatar as a US ally.\" Lobbyists hired by Qatar include Trump fundraiser Brian Ballard of Ballard Partners and former attorney general John Ashcroft. Mohammed bin Hamad bin Khalifa Al Thani, brother of the Emir of Qatar, is alleged to be directing the U.S. lobbying campaign.\n\nThe American-Arab Anti-Discrimination Committee (ADC) was started in 1980 by United States Senator James Abourezk. It is the largest Arab American grassroots civil rights organization in the United States. Former US Congresswoman Mary Rose Oakar is the current president. ADC is at the forefront in addressing anti-Arabism - discrimination and bias against Arab Americans. It also advocates what it calls a more balanced US policy towards the Middle East.\n\nThe Arab American Institute (\"AAI\"), founded in 1985 by James Zogby, is a non-profit, membership organization and advocacy group based in Washington D.C. that focuses on the issues and interests of Arab American nationwide. The organization seeks to increase the visibility of Arab American involvement as voters and candidates in the American political system. It issues \"Action Alerts\" and encourages individual lobbying and participation in an annual national lobby day. It has promoted actively professors John Mearsheimer and Stephen Walt's book The Israel Lobby and U.S. Foreign Policy.\n\nAccording to Bard, author of 2010 book \"The Arab Lobby: The Invisible Alliance That Undermines America's Interests in the Middle East\", the informal Arab lobby includes tens of millions of dollars donated to American Universities for Islamic studies, because these funds flow only to universities that teach courses and hire scholars whose work meets with the approval of the oil states, courses are not offered and research is not pursued on the ideology or structure radical Islam, Arab anti-Americanism, or Arab anti-Semitism, instead, courses are taught and studies pursued on such themes as Zionism as an illegitimate political movement, or form of European imperialism, and Jewishness is a largely mythological and invented history.\n\nBard, author of 2010 book \"The Arab Lobby\" and a former editor of the \"Near East Report\", a weekly newsletter published by the American Israel Public Affairs Committee, writes that \"from the beginning, the Arab lobby has faced not only a disadvantage in electoral politics but also in organization.\" Academics Ali A. Mazrui and Nabeel A. Khoury have also written about the virtual non-existence of an Arab lobby in America.\n\nIn a 2007 State Department Foreign Press Center Briefing James Zogby of the Arab American Institute denied Arab Americans lobby for Arab governments. He told an audience: \"There are many Arab lobbies. Each Arab government hires lobbyists to do their work for them. And we Arab Americans are not an Arab lobby. I think that the thing in the Jewish community that's interesting is that the Jewish community is supportive of Israel and the Israeli Government works very closely with elements in the American Jewish community around a convergence of ideas and issues and interests, and that has created the sense of an Israel lobby.\" Zogby also said \"The reality about Arab Americans is that we are emerging as a political group.\"\n\nResearchers Sherri Replogle and Khalil Marrar write: \"While pro-Arab lobbying pales in comparison to those of the pro-Israel lobby, the end of the Cold-War, the current war on terrorism, and clear American and international support for the two-state solution as manifested by public opinion polls, policymakers' statements, and United Nations Security Council Resolutions 1397 and 1515, provide the pro-Arab lobby with a crucial opportunity to realize its vision of Palestinian statehood.\"\n\nIn 2010 lobbyists paid by the government of Egypt succeeded in preventing the Senate from passing a bill calling on Egypt to curtail human rights abuses.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "13435705", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13435705", "title": "Arbitrary arrest and detention", "text": "Arbitrary arrest and detention\n\nArbitrary arrest and arbitrary detention are the arrest or detention of an individual in a case in which there is no likelihood or evidence that they committed a crime against legal statute, or in which there has been no proper due process of law or order.\n\nVirtually all individuals who are arbitrarily arrested are given no explanation as to why they are being arrested, and they are not shown any arrest warrant. Depending on the social context, many or the vast majority of arbitrarily arrested individuals may be held and their whereabouts can be concealed from their family, associates, the public population and open trial courts. Many individuals who are arbitrarily arrested and detained suffer physical or psychological torture during interrogation, as well as extrajudicial punishment and other abuses in the hands of those detaining them.\n\nArbitrarily depriving an individual of their liberty is prohibited by the United Nations' division for human rights. Article 9 of the 1948 Universal Declaration of Human Rights decrees that \"no one shall be subjected to arbitrary arrest, detention or exile\"; that is, no individual, regardless of circumstances, is to be deprived of their liberty or exiled from their country without having first committed an actual criminal offense against a legal statute, and the government cannot deprive an individual of their liberty without proper due process of law. As well, the International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights specifies the protection from arbitrary arrest and detention by the Article 9.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "9104064", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9104064", "title": "Association of Manitoba Municipalities", "text": "Association of Manitoba Municipalities\n\nThe Association of Manitoba Municipalities (AMM) is an organization of municipal governments in the province of Manitoba, Canada. All municipalities in Manitoba are members.\n\nThe AMM was founded in 1999, by a merger of the Union of Manitoba Municipalities (UMM) and the Manitoba Association of Urban Municipalities (MAUM). Its stated purpose is to identify and address \"the needs and concerns of its members in order to achieve strong and effective municipal government\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "10084738", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10084738", "title": "Boundaries in landscape history", "text": "Boundaries in landscape history\n\nBoundaries—particularly field boundaries—are among the oldest features in an English rural landscape. Although a boundary itself is an abstract concept, the boundary can often be seen by differences in land use on either side. \n\nBoundaries- a real or imagined line that marks the limit of something. Many field boundaries in the central region of England originated with the enclosure of the previous open fields in the 18th or 19th centuries. In a few instances, current field boundaries (particularly in the west country) have been shown to have originated in the Bronze Age or Iron Age. With a few exceptions, however, the attempt to establish pre-Saxon boundaries has been \"largely fruitless\". Areas that were never formally enclosed might yet prove a more fruitful area of research.\n\nThe presence of bluebells in a hedge is often an indicator of an early hedge. It has been proposed that boundary hedges can be dated by hedgerow dating. This involves counting the number of species in a 27-metre section of hedge. In its simplest form each separate species suggests an age of 100 years. A variety of additional complexities have been suggested, but results have been mixed and the technique remains controversial.\n\nParish boundaries are of particular interest to landscape historians, since they are often inherited from land holdings that date back to the middle Saxon period or earlier. The coincidence of another landscape feature with a parish boundary can be used to date that feature—for example in the \"Time Team\" episode screened on 11 March 2007, a mill leat was determined to pre-date the Norman conquest because it coincided with a parish boundary.\n\nThe boundaries of a few Anglo-Saxon estates were described in the boundary clauses of Anglo-Saxon Charters. These boundary clauses can sometimes be used to characterise the landscape at the time. In some cases, it has been possible to show that the boundaries of these Anglo-Saxon estates correspond to the boundaries of the subsequent parish.\n\nParish boundaries are shown on the old \"1 inch\" Ordnance Survey maps, although these are the boundaries of the civil parish which may be different. Parish boundaries are not shown on the modern \"Landranger\" maps. Tithe maps, from the early 19th century, usually show the parish boundary at the time they were drawn.\n\nIn Scotland a march dyke is the boundary between farms or previously baronies.\n\nThe boundaries of medieval deer parks are often marked by pronounced earthworks and for early parks, they can coincide with parish boundaries.\n\nBoundaries that have fallen out of use, may still be traceable by using geophysics or as a result of earthworks (lumps and bumps) or cropmarks. Cropmarks and earthworks are often visible in aerial photographs. Earthworks are more easily seen on photographs taken when the sun is low in the sky and as a result, shadows are more pronounced. They can also become more easily seen when the ground has a slight dusting of snow.\n"}
{"id": "41066691", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41066691", "title": "Britannica Party", "text": "Britannica Party\n\nBritannica is a far-right political party in the United Kingdom, led by Charles Baillie, the former organiser of the British National Party's Glasgow branch. It was first registered in August 2011.\n\nThe party was formed by Baillie when he, along with other leading members of the BNP in Scotland, was expelled for plotting against the then party leader, Nick Griffin. It is, in essence, the core of the BNP Glasgow branch, including Max Dunbar (treasurer and former treasurer of BNP Glasgow), Jean Douglas and Martin Clark. John Robertson, the BNP \"security officer\" for the Highlands & Islands, is also a member.\n\nThe party stood four candidates at the Glasgow City Council election, 2012, receiving a total of 73 votes. It also stood at three council by-elections in Glasgow, in Hillhead (17 November 2011, 11 votes), Govan (10 October 2013, 19 votes) and Shettleston (5 December 2013, 31 votes).\n\nIt registered with the Electoral Commission as campaigning for a \"No\" vote in the Scottish independence referendum, 2014.\n\nThe party does not appear to have grown, but its accounts have been regularly filed with the Electoral Commission, showing income for 2015 and 2016 respectively of 4p and 3p, with the only expenditure in both years being the annual £50 registration fee to the Commission.\n"}
{"id": "30763510", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30763510", "title": "Cairo fire", "text": "Cairo fire\n\nThe Cairo fire (), also known as Black Saturday, was a series of riots that took place on 26 January 1952, marked by the burning and looting of some 750 buildings—retail shops, cafes, cinemas, hotels, restaurants, theatres, nightclubs, and the city's Opera House—in downtown Cairo. The direct trigger of the riots was the killing by British occupation troops of 50 Egyptian auxiliary policemen in the city of Ismaïlia in a one-sided battle a day earlier. The spontaneous anti-British protests that followed these deaths were quickly seized upon by organized elements in the crowd, who burned and ransacked large sectors of Cairo amidst the unexplained absence of security forces. The fire is thought by some to have signalled the end of the Kingdom of Egypt. The perpetrators of the Cairo Fire remain unknown to this day, and the truth about this important event in modern Egyptian history has yet to be established. The disorder that befell Cairo during the 1952 fire has recently been compared to the chaos that followed the anti-government protests of 28 January 2011, which saw demonstrations take place amidst massive arson and looting, an inexplicable withdrawal of the police and organized prison-breaking.\n\nIn 1952, the British occupation of Egypt was entering its 70th year, but was limited to the Suez Canal zone. On the morning of 25 January 1952, Brigadier Kenneth Exham, the British commander, issued a warning to Egyptian policemen in Ismaïlia, demanding that they surrender their weapons and leave the canal zone entirely. By doing so, the British aimed to get rid of the only manifestation of Egyptian governmental authority in the canal zone. They also wanted to end the aid the police force was providing to anti-British \"fedayeen\" groups. The Ismailia Governorate refused the British request, a refusal that was reiterated by interior minister Fouad Serageddin. As a result, 7,000 British soldiers equipped with machine guns, tanks and armour surrounded the governorate building and its barracks, containing nearly 700 Egyptian officers and soldiers. Armed only with rifles, the Egyptians refused to surrender their weapons. The British commander thus ordered his troops to bombard the buildings. Vastly outnumbered, the Egyptians continued to fight until they ran out of ammunition. The confrontation, which lasted two hours, left 50 Egyptians dead and 80 others injured. The rest were taken captive.\n\nThe following day, news of the attack in Ismaïlia reached Cairo, provoking the ire of Egyptians. The unrest began at Almaza Airport, when workers there refused to provide services to four British airplanes. It was followed by the rebellion of policemen in the Abbaseya barracks, who wished to express their solidarity with their dead and captured colleagues in Ismaïlia. Protesters then headed towards the university building, where they were joined by students. Together they marched towards the prime minister's office to demand that Egypt break its diplomatic relations with the United Kingdom and declare war on it. Abdul Fattah Hassan, the Minister of Social Affairs, told them that the Wafdist government wished to do so, but faced opposition from King Farouk I. As a result, protesters went to Abdeen Palace where they were joined by students from Al-Azhar. The crowd expressed its discontent towards the king, his partisans and the British.\n\nThe first act of arson took place in Opera Square, with the burning of Casino Opera. The fire spread to Shepheard's Hotel, the Automobile Club, Barclays Bank, as well as other shops, corporate offices, movie theaters, hotels and banks. Fueled by anti-British and anti-Western sentiment, the mob concentrated on British property and establishments with foreign connections, as well as buildings popularly associated with Western influence. Nightclubs and other establishments frequented by King Farouk I were equally targeted. The fires also reached the neighbourhoods of Faggala, Daher, Citadel, as well as Tahrir Square and Cairo Train Station Square. Due to the prevailing chaos, theft and looting occurred, until the Egyptian Army arrived shortly before sunset and managed to restore order. The Army was alerted belatedly, after most of the damage had already occurred.\n\nMost of the destruction, the extent of which was unforeseen by everyone, occurred between 12:30 pm and 11 pm. A total of £3.4 million damage was done to British and foreign property. Nearly 300 shops were destroyed, including some of Egypt's most famous department stores, such as Cicurel, Omar Effendi and the Salon Vert. The damage tally also included 30 corporate offices, 13 hotels (among which Shepheard's, Metropolitan and Victoria), 40 movie theaters (among which Rivoli, Radio, Metro, Diana and Miami), eight auto shows, 10 firearms shops, 73 coffeehouses and restaurants (including Groppi's), 92 bars and 16 social clubs. As for the human casualties, 26 people died and 552 suffered injuries such as burns and bone fractures. Thousands of workers were displaced due to the destruction of these establishments.\n\nThe events were seen at the time as evidence of the Egyptian government's inability to maintain order. They almost caused another British military occupation, although this outcome was averted by the Egyptian Army's restoration of order. Prime Minister Mustafa el-Nahhas initially presented his resignation, which was refused by King Farouk I. The Wafdist government of el-Nahhas and the king blamed each other for the failure to call in troops earlier. The Council of Ministers imposed martial law throughout the country, and ordered the closure of schools and universities. El-Nahhas was appointed military commander-in-chief, and proclaimed a curfew in Cairo and Giza from 6 pm to 6 am. He also issued an order banning public gatherings of five or more persons, with offenders facing imprisonment.\n\nThe king was holding a banquet at Abdeen Palace for nearly 2,000 military officers when the disturbances took place. The banquet had been organized to celebrate the birth of his son Ahmad Fuad. The following day, the king dismissed the Wafdist government, a decision which slightly eased tensions with the British. However, the series of short-lived cabinets he appointed afterward failed to restore public confidence in the monarchy. The resultant political and domestic instability throughout the ensuing six months was among the factors that paved the way for the Free Officers coup. The Cairo Fire pushed the Free Officers to advance the date of their planned coup, which took place on 23 July 1952. The coup resulted in the forced abdication of Farouk I and the abolition of the monarchy a year later. It also reignited anti-British hostilities, which led to the signing of the Anglo-Egyptian Evacuation Agreement in 1954. The last British soldier stationed in Egypt left the country on 18 June 1956.\n\nNo one was arrested during the disorder. It appears that there were organized elements in the crowd, both left-wing and right-wing. According to official sources as well as eyewitnesses, the disturbances had been masterminded beforehand, and the groups responsible for it were highly skilled and trained. This was evidenced by the speed and precision with which the fires were ignited. The perpetrators held tools to force open closed doors, and used acetylene stoves to melt steel barriers placed on windows and doors. They executed their plan in record time through the use of nearly 30 cars. The timing was also another clear indication of the careful planning behind the arson. Saturday afternoon was chosen due to the weekend closure of offices and department stores, as well as the post-matinée closure of movie theaters.\n\nAlthough some of the country's politicians may have been implicated in the initial outbreak of violence, it has never been fully determined who started the Cairo Fire. Historians still disagree about the identity of the initiators of the disturbances, leading to several conspiracy theories. Some believe King Farouk I masterminded the disorder to get rid of the government of el-Nahhas. Others support the idea that the British instigated the chaos to punish the government of el-Nahhas for its unilateral abrogation of the Anglo-Egyptian Treaty in 1951. Alternative theories put the blame on the Muslim Brotherhood or the Egyptian Socialist Party, formerly known as \"Misr al-Fatat\". Nevertheless, no material evidence has ever appeared to incriminate a specific group. Following the 23 July 1952 coup, an inquiry was opened to investigate the circumstances surrounding the Cairo Fire, but failed to identify the real perpetrators. The Cairo Fire thus remains an unsolved mystery.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "19740997", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19740997", "title": "Central Bureau of Statistics (Syria)", "text": "Central Bureau of Statistics (Syria)\n\nThe Central Bureau of Statistics (CBS) () is the statistical agency responsible for the gathering of \"information relating to economic, social and general activities and conditions\" in the Syrian Arab Republic. The office is answerable to the office of the Prime Minister and has its main offices in Damascus. The CBS was established in 2005 and is administered by an administrative council headed by the deputy prime minister for economic affairs.\n"}
{"id": "1375001", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1375001", "title": "Civilian Irregular Defense Group program", "text": "Civilian Irregular Defense Group program\n\nCivilian Irregular Defense Group program (CIDG, pronounced \"sid-gee\") was a program developed by the U.S. government in the Vietnam War to develop South Vietnamese irregular military units from minority populations.\n\nThe Civilian Irregular Defense Group program was formed for two reasons:\n\nThe CIDG program was devised by the CIA in early 1961 to counter expanding Viet Cong influence in South Vietnam's Central Highlands. Beginning in the village of Buon Enao, small A Teams from the U.S. Army Special Forces (Green Berets) moved into villages and set up Area Development Centers. Focusing on local defense and civic action, the Special Forces teams did the majority of the training. Villagers were trained and armed for village defense for two weeks, while localized Strike Forces would receive better training and weapons and served as a quick reaction force to react to Viet Cong attacks. The vast majority of the CIDG camps were initially manned by inhabitants of ethnic minority regions in the country (especially Montagnard), who disliked both the North and South Vietnamese and therefore quickly took to the American advisers. The program was widely successful, as once one village was pacified, it served as a training camp for other local villages. \n\nBy 1963, the military felt that the program was a great success, but also that the CIDG units and Special Forces units were not being employed properly, and ordered Operation Switchback, which transferred control of the CIDG program from the CIA over to Military Assistance Command, Vietnam. The CIDG Program was rapidly expanded, as the entire 5th Special Forces Group, U.S. Army Special Forces, moved into Vietnam, and the CIDG units stopped focusing on village defense and instead took part in more conventional operations, most notably border surveillance. Most of these were converted to Vietnam Army Ranger units in 1970.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4252697", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4252697", "title": "Closed-circuit television camera", "text": "Closed-circuit television camera\n\nA closed-circuit television camera (CCTV camera) can produce images or recordings for surveillance or other private purposes. Cameras can be either video cameras, or digital stills cameras. Walter Bruch was the inventor of the CCTV camera.\n\nVideo cameras are either analogue or digital, which means that they work on the basis of sending analogue or digital signals to a storage device such as a video tape recorder or desktop computer or laptop computer.\nCan record straight to a video tape recorder which are able to record analogue signals as pictures. If the analogue signals are recorded to tape, then the tape must run at a very slow speed in order to operate continuously. This is because in order to allow a three-hour tape to run for 24 hours, it must be set to run on a slow time lapse basis, usually about four frames per second. In one second, the camera scene can change dramatically. A person for example can have walked a distance of 1 meter, and therefore if the distance is divided into four parts, i.e. four frames or \"snapshots\" in time, then each frame invariably looks like a blur, unless the subject keeps relatively still.\n\nAnalogue signals can also be converted into a digital signal to enable the recordings to be stored on a PC as digital recordings. In that case the analogue video camera must be plugged directly into a video capture card in the computer, and the card then converts the analogue signal to digital. These cards are relatively cheap, but inevitably the resulting digital signals are compressed 5:1 (MPEG compression) in order for the video recordings to be saved on a continuous basis.\n\nAnother way to store recordings on a non-analogue media is through the use of a digital video recorder (DVR). Such a device is similar in functionality to a PC with a capture card and appropriate video recording software. Unlike PCs, most DVRs designed for CCTV purposes are embedded devices that require less maintenance and simpler setup than a PC-based solution, for a medium to large number of analogue cameras.\n\nSome DVRs also allow digital broadcasting of the video signal, thus acting like a network camera. If a device does allow broadcasting of the video, but does not record it, then it's called a video server. These devices effectively turn any analogue camera (or any analogue video signal) into a network TV.\n\nThese cameras do not require a video capture card because they work using a digital signal which can be saved directly to a computer. The signal is compressed 5:1, but DVD quality can be achieved with more compression (MPEG-2 is standard for DVD-video, and has a higher compression ratio than 5:1, with a slightly lower video quality than 5:1 at best, and is adjustable for the amount of space to be taken up versus the quality of picture needed or desired). The highest picture quality of DVD is only slightly lower than the quality of basic 5:1-compression DV.\n\nSaving uncompressed digital recordings takes up an enormous amount of hard drive space, and a few hours of uncompressed video could quickly fill up a hard drive. Holiday uncompressed recordings may look fine but one could not run uncompressed quality recordings on a continuous basis. Motion detection is therefore sometimes used as a work around solution to record in uncompressed quality.\n\nHowever, in any situation where standard-definition video cameras are used, the quality is going to be poor because the maximum pixel resolution of the image chips in most of these devices is 320,000 pixels (analogue quality is measured in TV lines but the results are the same); they generally capture horizontal and vertical fields of lines and blend them together to make a single frame; the maximum frame rate is normally 30 frames per second.\n\nNevertheless, multi-megapixel IP-CCTV cameras are coming on the market. Still quite expensive, but they can capture video images at resolutions of 1, 2, 3, 5 and even up to 11 Mpix. Unlike with analogue cameras, details such as number plates are easily readable. At 11 Mpix, forensic quality images are made where each hand on a person can be distinguished. Because of the much higher resolutions available with these types of cameras, they can be set up to cover a wide area where normally several analogue cameras would have been needed.\n\nThe worlds largest digital CCTV camera is a scaled up ST 205 CCTV camera unveiled by TelView on the 10th of July 2011. It measures 1.7 metres x 4.56m x 1.6m and has a sensitivity of 0.01 lux. \n\nIP cameras or network cameras are analogue or digital video cameras, plus an embedded video server having an IP address, capable of streaming the video (and sometimes, even audio).\n\nBecause network cameras are embedded devices, and do not need to output an analogue signal, resolutions higher than closed-circuit television 'CCTV' analogue cameras are possible. A typical analogue CCTV camera has a PAL (768×576 pixels) or NTSC (720×480 pixels), whereas network cameras may have VGA (640×480 pixels), SVGA (800×600 pixels) or quad-VGA (1280×960 pixels, also referred to as \"megapixel\") resolutions.\n\nAn analogue or digital camera connected to a video server acts as a network camera, but the image size is restricted to that of the video standard of the camera. However, optics (lenses and image sensors), not video resolution, are the components that determine the image quality.\n\nNetwork cameras can be used for very cheap surveillance solutions (requiring one network camera, some Ethernet cabling, and one PC), or to replace entire CCTV installations (cameras become network cameras, tape recorders become DVRs, and CCTV monitors become computers with TFT screens and specialised software. Digital video manufacturers claim that turning CCTV installations into digital video installations is inherently better).\n\nThere continues to be much debate over the merits and price-for-performance of Network cameras as compared to analog cameras. Many in the CCTV industry claim that many analog cameras can outperform network cameras at a lower price.\n\nThe pixel resolution of the current models have easily reached 10 million pixels. Some point and shoot models like those produced by Canon or Nikon boast resolutions in excess of 20 million pixels. \n\nAt these resolutions, and with high shutter speeds like 1/125th of a second, it is possible to take jpg pictures on a continuous or motion detection basis that will capture not only anyone running past the camera scene, but even the faces of those driving past.\n\nThese cameras can be plugged into the USB port of any computer (most of them now have USB capability) and pictures can be taken of any camera scene. All that is necessary is for the camera to be mounted on a wall bracket and pointed in the desired direction.\n\nModern digital still cameras can take 500 kb snapshots in the space of 1 second, and these snapshots are then automatically downloaded by the camera software straight to the computer for storage as timed and dated JPEG files. The images themselves don't need to stay on the computer for long. If the computer is connected to the Internet, then the images can automatically be uploaded to any other computer anywhere in the world, as and when the pictures are taken.\n\nThe user does not need to lift a finger except to simply plug the camera in and point it in the desired direction. The direction could just as easily be the street outside a house, or the entrance to a bank or underground station.\n\nDigital still cameras are now being made with in-built wireless connectivity, so that no USB cable is required; images are simply transmitted wirelessly through walls or ceilings to the computer.\n\n"}
{"id": "27517444", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27517444", "title": "Council of State of Geneva", "text": "Council of State of Geneva\n\nThe Council of State of Geneva () is the executive organ of the canton of Geneva, in Switzerland. Geneva has a seven-member \"Conseil d'État\".\n\nThe last elections were held on 15 April and 6 May 2018.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "29003801", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29003801", "title": "Countermeasure (computer)", "text": "Countermeasure (computer)\n\nIn computer security a countermeasure is an action, device, procedure, or technique that reduces a threat, a vulnerability, or an attack by eliminating or preventing it, by minimizing the harm it can cause, or by discovering and reporting it so that corrective action can be taken.\n\nThe definition is as IETF RFC 2828 that is the same as CNSS Instruction No. 4009 dated 26 April 2010 by Committee on National Security Systems of United States of America.\n\nAccording to the Glossary by InfosecToday, the meaning of countermeasure is:\n\nA synonym is security control.\nIn telecommunications, communication countermeasures are defined as security services as part of OSI Reference model by ITU-T X.800 Recommendation.\nX.800 and ISO ISO 7498-2 (Information processing systems – Open systems interconnection – Basic Reference Model – Part 2: Security architecture are technically aligned.\n\nThe following picture explain the relationships between these concepts and terms:\n\nA resource (both physical or logical) can have one or more vulnerabilities that can be exploited by a threat agent in a threat action. The result can potentially compromises the confidentiality, integrity or availability properties of resources (potentially different that the vulnerable one) of the organization and others involved parties (customers, suppliers).\nThe so-called CIA triad is the basis of information security.\n\nThe attack can be active when it attempts to alter system resources or affect their operation: so it compromises integrity or availability. A \"passive attack\" attempts to learn or make use of information from the system but does not affect system resources, compromising confidentiality.\n\nA threat is a potential for violation of security, which exists when there is a circumstance, capability, action, or event that could breach security and cause harm. That is, a threat is a possible danger enabling the exploitation of a vulnerability. A threat can be either \"intentional\" (i.e., intelligent; e.g., an individual cracker or a criminal organization) or \"accidental\" (e.g., the possibility of a computer malfunctioning, or the possibility of an \"act of God\" such as an earthquake, a fire, or a tornado).\n\nA set of policies concerned with information security management, the information security management systems (ISMS), has been developed to manage, according to risk management principles, the countermeasures in order to accomplish to a security strategy set up following rules and regulations applicable in a country.\n\nIf a potential malicious actor has physical access to a computer system, they have a greater chance of inflicting harm upon it.\n\nDevices such as a USB Killer may be used to damage or render completely unusable anything with a connection to the motherboard of a computer, such as a USB port, video port, Ethernet port, or serial port. Without proper protection, these devices may result in the destruction of ports, adapter cards, storage devices, RAM, motherboards, CPUs, or anything physically connected to the device attacked, such as monitors, flash drives, or wired switches. These types of devices can even be used to damage smartphones and cars, as well.\n\nThis threat can be mitigated by not installing or restricting physical access to easily accessible ports in situations where they are not necessary. A port-closing lock which permanently disables access to a port short of the actual port being disassembled. When it is necessary for a port to be accessible, an optocoupler can allow for a port to send and receive data to a computer or device without a direct electrical connection, preventing the computer or device from receiving any dangerous voltage from an external device.\n\nIn an unsecured scenario, a malicious actor may steal or destroy storage devices such as hard drives or SSDs, resulting in the destruction or theft of valuable data.\n\nIf the data of a storage device is no longer necessary, data theft is best prevented against by physically destroying or shredding the storage device.\n\nIf the data of a storage device is in use and must be secured, one can use encryption to encrypt the contents of a storage device, or even encrypt the whole storage device save for the master boot record. The device can then be unlocked with a password, biometric authentication, a physical dongle, a network interchange, a one-time password, or any combination thereof. If this device is a boot drive, however, it must be unencrypted in a pre-boot environment so the operating system can be accessed. Striping, or breaking data into chunks stored upon multiple drives which must be assemble in order to access the data, is a possible solution to physical drive theft, provided that the drives are stored in multiple, individually secured locations, and are enough in number that no one drive can be used to piece together meaningful information.\n\nNot the be neglected is the process of adding physical barriers to the storage devices themselves. Locked cases or physically hidden drives, with a limited amount of personnel with knowledge and access to the keys or locations, may prove to be a good first line against physical theft.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "15324586", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15324586", "title": "Dana Larsen", "text": "Dana Larsen\n\nDana Albert Larsen (born April 14, 1971) is a Canadian author, politician and cannabis rights activist.\n\nLarsen was the editor of \"Cannabis Culture\" magazine from its creation in 1994 until 2005, producing 54 issues with publisher Marc Emery, who now also serves as editor.\n\nLarsen was a founding member of both the Marijuana Party of Canada and the BC Marijuana Party. In the 2000 Canadian federal election, Larsen ran as the Marijuana Party candidate for the riding of West Vancouver-Sunshine Coast, receiving 3% of the vote. In the 2001 British Columbia provincial election, Larsen ran as a BC Marijuana Party candidate in the Powell River-Sunshine Coast riding, receiving 3.5% of the vote.\n\nAfter the 2001 election, Larsen became the Leader of the BC Marijuana Party. In 2003, Larsen resigned from both Marijuana parties and joined the New Democratic Party.\n\nIn 2005, Larsen founded a group called \"End Prohibition, NDP Against the Drug War.\" Larsen has since claimed that End Prohibition has been instrumental in passing drug-policy resolutions through the provincial NDP in British Columbia, Saskatchewan and Ontario.\n\nIn 2006, Larsen co-founded the Vancouver Seed Bank, a business which sells many seed varieties from their storefront and also across Canada by mail-order, including those for banned and controversial psychoactive plants such as marijuana, poppies, peyote and coca.\n\nIn 2007, Larsen released a book called \"Hairy Pothead and the Marijuana Stone\", a pot-laden Harry Potter parody published and distributed across North America by Cannabis Culture Magazine.\n\nIn 2008, he was the federal New Democratic Party candidate for the riding of West Vancouver—Sunshine Coast—Sea to Sky Country for the 2008 election, however, he resigned on September 17, after videos he had filmed for Pot-TV in 1999 were released to the media, which showed him taking LSD and smoking marijuana.\n\nIn November 2008, Larsen announced the opening of the Vancouver Medicinal Cannabis Dispensary, located almost next door to the Vancouver Seed Bank. The cannabis dispensary is operated by a non-profit society of which Larsen is a Director. In July 2010, the cannabis dispensary opened a second location, located in Vancouver's West End.\n\nLarsen also serves as a Director of The Always Growing Green Society, which in May 2010 opened the TAGGS medicinal cannabis dispensary in Maple Ridge, BC.\n\nOn December 29, 2010, Larsen announced his candidacy for the leadership of the British Columbia NDP. He came in fourth with 2.7% of the vote.\n\nIn September 2012, Larsen launched the Sensible BC campaign to decriminalize cannabis possession in BC through a referendum. The campaign had 4000 volunteers gather 202,085 signatures in 90 days, from September 9 to December 9, 2013. Although not enough to qualify for a referendum, it was the second-highest total ever gathered for a BC referendum effort.\n"}
{"id": "55785985", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55785985", "title": "El Viejo Clásico", "text": "El Viejo Clásico\n\nEl Viejo Clásico (\"The Old Classic\") also known as \"El Otro Clásico\" (\"The Other Classic\") is the name given to any football match between Athletic Bilbao and Real Madrid. Until 10 December 2011, this fixture was the most played in the history of Spanish football, when it was surpassed by El Clásico. However, it remains the most played game in the Copa del Rey.\n\nThese two clubs and Barcelona are the only three teams to have participated in all editions of La Liga, the national league championship. Both are owned by their \"socios\" (members) who elect a club president to oversee its affairs.\n\nTheir first meeting occurred in the final of the first edition of the Copa del Rey, played on 8 April 1903; Athletic won 3–2. That match has been identified as a catalyst for the establishment a few weeks later of what would eventually become Club Atlético de Madrid, after some Madrid-based Basque students among the spectators were inspired by the comeback victory by Athletic Bilbao and decided to form a local branch of the club.\n\nTheir first match at the original San Mamés took place in that competition in 1920. Meetings became common as Athletic Bilbao and Real Madrid dominated the regional tournaments (Biscay Championship and Madrid Regional Championship respectively), the winning of which granted access to the Copa del Rey.\n\nThe Basques and Castilians met in nine Cup finals between 1903 and 1958; Athletic won six of these matches.\n\nOn 21 April 1929, Athletic Bilbao and Real Madrid met for the first time in La Liga; Real Madrid won the match at Chamartín 5–1. The 1929 Copa del Rey semi-final second leg in Bilbao became known as the 'frog match', after a local company distributed toys which made frog-like noises to increase the noise level in the stadium to distract the visitors, who were 3–1 up from the first leg. The ploy failed resoundingly, with Real Madrid recording a 4–1 win to progress 7–2; however they would lose the final. The two clubs would share ten of the first 25 championships (Athletic six, Madrid four) either side of the Spanish Civil War up to 1956, but from that point \"Los Blancos\" became the dominant club in the country, winning 16 titles from 26 available (plus six European Cups).\nIn that era, the \"caudillo\" General Franco used the success of the club (based in the capital city, the seat of power) as a vehicle to promote Francoist Spain to foreigners, whereas Athletic Bilbao – the largest club in the peripheral Basque region whose customs and language were repressed by the central government – won no titles in the same period, only even finishing runners-up once.\n\nThe Basques and other regions regained more self-control in the years following Franco's death in 1975, symbolised by the joint display of the banned Basque flag by the captains of Athletic and local rivals Real Sociedad at a match between them a year later. However, many of the supporters of Athletic and Real Madrid, including their Ultras groups (\"\" and \"\" respectively), still adhere to opposing views in terms of their national identity. In this regard, the relationship has similarities with the more famous and intense \"El Clásico\" rivalry between Real Madrid and Barcelona (representing Catalonia).\n\nOn the field, a competitive edge was briefly restored in the early 1980s when Athletic built a strong combative team that won the league twice, finishing ahead of Real Madrid by one point in 1983 with the top spot changing hands on the last day; the season was nothing short of a disaster for the \"Meringues\", who also lost in the finals of the Supercopa, the Copa del Rey (to a last-minute goal), the European Cup Winners' Cup (in extra time), and the Copa de la Liga. In the following campaign, Athletic pipped Madrid by a single goal and better head-to-head record, but their league and cup double that year was the last time they lifted either trophy; Real Madrid soon responded with a run of five-in-a-row, led by their group of homegrown talent, La Quinta del Buitre.\n\nDuring a hotly-contested fixture in Bilbao in March 1990, the referee awarded a dubious penalty to the away side and had to halt the game for 12 minutes after objects were thrown at the linesman and Madrid goalkeeper Paco Buyo. The match finished as normal, but as a consequence the San Mamés stadium was closed for one match, with Athletic playing Real Valladolid at the Atotxa Stadium in San Sebastián.\n\nEntering the 21st century, other clubs offered significant challenges to Real Madrid, such as Atlético Madrid (their city rivals who were originally formed as an offshoot of Athletic Bilbao and thus have a similar name, crest and kit), Valencia and Barcelona. Athletic Bilbao were not among this group, now hampered by their self-imposed restrictive Basque-only player policy in an age of worldwide recruitment, exemplified by Madrid's \"Galácticos\" who won seven further Champions Leagues between 1998 and 2018.\n\nReal Madrid have a global fanbase and are one of the world's richest, most decorated and best-attended clubs. Athletic have a much lower profile and have occasionally flirted with relegation, although they have consistently ranked among the top half-dozen clubs in Spain for performance, matchday attendance and popularity. Nevertheless, despite the disparities in stature between the two clubs, the fixtures remain keenly fought due to their historical and cultural significance.\n\nThere is no doubt who has the upper hand in recent meetings: in 2004–05 Athletic won home and away against Real Madrid, but since then they won just two of their home matches in the dozen seasons up to 2016–17, and took no points at all from the 12 matches at the Bernabéu with Real Madrid registering four or five goals on several occasions; the \"Merengues\" also won both legs of the most recent cup tie between the sides in 2006.\n\nIn April 2011, Real Madrid registered a 3–0 away win over Athletic despite resting several players for important upcoming games, and in the same fixture in May 2012 they achieved the same result and scoreline to clinch their 32nd title in Bilbao, becoming the first visiting team to win the league in the city. Cristiano Ronaldo scored in both matches, and he is Real Madrid's top goalscorer in the fixture having overtaken Raúl's tally of 15 in 2016. Both Ronaldo and Athletic's Zarra have 17 league goals in the fixture, but Zarra is still some way ahead overall with 24.\n\n9 goals:\n8 goals:\n7 goals:\n\n7 goal margin:\n6 goal margin:\n5 goal margin:\n\nOver their long histories, only ten players have played for both clubs in \"La Liga\" (all Basques, due to Athletic's policy): \n\n\nThe careers of Alkorta and Karanka closely mirrored one another: both central defenders, each started at Athletic then had a successful spell at Real Madrid before returning to Bilbao, with Karanka - five years younger - actually replacing Alkorta at every turn.\n\nIsmael Urzaiz, who played over 400 times for Athletic, started his career at Real Madrid's \"La Fabrica\" academy but did not make a league appearance for the club.\n\nFive coaches have been at the helm of both clubs:\n\nThe early Madrid player and manager Arthur Johnson is also named by some sources as being manager of Athletic Bilbao, but the club does not include him in the list on their website.\n\n\n \n"}
{"id": "2181863", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2181863", "title": "European Climate Exchange", "text": "European Climate Exchange\n\nThe European Climate Exchange (ECX) managed the product development and marketing for ECX Carbon Financial Instruments (ECX CFIs), listed and admitted for trading on the ICE Futures Europe electronic platform. For a time it was a subsidiary of the Chicago Climate Exchange but eventually became a sister company. Both companies were owned by Climate Exchange Plc a holding company listed on the London Stock Exchange's AIM market. While products are listed on the London Stock Exchange, the sales and marketing team was initially based in Amsterdam, the Netherlands under its first CEO, Peter Koster, before moving to London, UK in October 2007.\n\nECX financial products, now fully owned by ICE Futures, provide the most liquid, pan-European platform for carbon emissions trading, with its futures contract based on the underlying EU Allowances (EUAs) and Certified Emissions Allowances (CERs) attracting over 80% of the exchange-traded volume in the European market. ECX contracts (EUA and CER Futures, options and spot contracts) are standardised exchange-traded products and all trades are cleared by ICE Clear Europe (LCH.Clearnet was the designated clearing house prior to November 2008).\n\nMore than 100 leading businesses, including global companies such as Barclays, BP, Newedge, E.ON UK, Endesa, Fortis, Goldman Sachs, Morgan Stanley and Shell have signed up for membership to trade ECX products. In addition, several hundred clients can access the market daily via banks and brokers in a process called 'order-routing' without having to be a member themselves.\n\nECX was a member of the Climate Exchange Plc group of companies, founded by Richard Sandor. Other member companies include the Chicago Climate Exchange (“CCX”) and IFEX. Climate Exchange Plc is listed on AIM (Alternative Investment Market) on the London Stock Exchange, and was bought in April 2010 by Intercontinental Exchange (ICE).\n\nThe last Chief Executive was Patrick Birley, son of archaeologist Robin Birley.\n\nOn 1 April 2009, Camp for Climate Action protesters set up a campsite and farmers' market outside the European Climate Exchange in Hasilwood House in Bishopsgate, City of London, to protest against carbon trading as a \"false solution\" to the problem of climate change.\n\nOn 23 July 2010, European Climate Exchange's website was targeted by hacktivists operating under the name of decocidio #ϴ. The website showed a spoof homepage for around 22 hours in an effort to promote the contention that carbon trading is a false solution to the climate crisis.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3924468", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3924468", "title": "Fairshare", "text": "Fairshare\n\nFairshare Voting Reform is a cross-party and non-party organisation set up in February 2001 to campaign for the introduction of the Single Transferable Vote system of Proportional Representation (STV-PR) for local government elections in Scotland. In January 2005 Fairshare extended its objectives to promote reform of the voting systems used for all public elections in Scotland and, specifically, to reform the voting system for elections to the Scottish Parliament through the adoption of STV-PR. The campaign maintains a network of Registered Supporters.\n\nFairshare was constituted as a not-for-profit company limited by guarantee (SC216224) when it employed staff and rented office premises, but the company was dissolved in June 2012 to minimise costs.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "29540053", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29540053", "title": "Family Fund", "text": "Family Fund\n\nFamily Fund is a UK based registered charity for disabled children and their families. The Chief Executive of this charity is Cheryl Ward.\n\nFormed in 1973 by the UK Government to give practical help to families with severely disabled and seriously ill children under the age of 18. For over 20 years the Family Fund operated under the wing of the Joseph Rowntree Foundation but in 1996 became an independent charity.\n\nThe charity aims to help families with disabled or seriously ill children and young people aged 17 and under to have choices and the opportunity to enjoy ordinary life by giving grants to families on the lowest of incomes to help relieve the stress of everyday life.\n\nThe charity operates under its own definition of severe disability and income criteria. The charity aims to help eligible families once every year with grants for things that make life easier and more enjoyable for the disabled child, young person and their family - items such as white goods, outdoor play equipment, computers and holidays.\n\nThe national governments of England, Northern Ireland, Scotland and Wales provide grants to the charity, as part of their commitment to disabled children and young people. The charity is the UK's largest grant giving organisation and currently helps around 66,000 families in the UK with around £33 million in grants a year.\n\n"}
{"id": "334322", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=334322", "title": "Greater Albania", "text": "Greater Albania\n\nGreater Albania is an irredentist concept of lands that are considered to form the national homeland by many Albanians, based on claims on the present-day or historical presence of Albanian populations in those areas. In addition to the existing Republic of Albania, the term incorporates claims to regions in the neighbouring states, the areas include Kosovo and the Preševo Valley of Serbia, territories in southern Montenegro, northwestern Greece (the Greek regional units of Thesprotia and Preveza, referred by Albanians as Chameria, and other territories that were part of the Vilayet of Yanina during the Ottoman Empire), and a part of western Republic of Macedonia.\n\nThe unification of an even larger area into a unique territory under Albanian authority had been theoretically conceived by the League of Prizren, an organization of the 19th century whose goal was to unify the Albanian inhabited lands (and other regions, mostly from the region of Macedonia, Epirus and Montenegro) into a single autonomous Albanian Vilayet within the Ottoman Empire. However, the concept of a Greater Albania, as in greater than Albania within its 1913 borders, was implemented only under the Italian and Nazi German occupation of the Balkans during World War II. The idea of unification, has roots in the events of the Treaty of London in 1913, when roughly half of the predominantly Albanian territories and 40% of the population were left outside the new country's borders, something that Albanians have tended to regard as an injustice imposed by the Great Powers.\n\nAccording to the \"Gallup Balkan Monitor\" 2010 report, the idea of a Greater Albania is supported by the majority of Albanians in Albania (63%), Kosovo (81%) and the Republic of Macedonia (53%), although the same report noted that most Albanians thought this unlikely to happen.\n\nIn a survey carried out by United Nations Development Programme (UNDP), published in March 2007, only 2.5% of the Albanians in Kosovo thought unification with Albania is the best solution for Kosovo. Ninety-six percent said they wanted Kosovo to become independent within its present borders.\n\nGreater Albania is a term used mainly by the Western scholars, politicians, etc. Albanian nationalists dislike the expression \"Greater Albania\" and prefer to use the term \"Ethnic Albania\". Ethnic Albania () is a term used primarily by Albanian nationalists to denote the territories claimed as the traditional homeland of ethnic Albanians, despite these lands also being inhabited by many non-Albanians. Those that use the second term refer to an area which is smaller than the four Ottoman vilayets, while still encompassing Albania, Kosovo, western Macedonia, Albanian populated areas of Southern Serbia and parts of Northern Greece (Chameria) that had a historic native Albanian population. Albanian nationalists ignore that within these regions there are also sizable numbers of non-Albanians. Another term used by Albanians, is \"Albanian national reunification\" ().\n\nPrior to the Balkan wars of the beginning of the 20th century, Albanians were subjects of the Ottoman Empire.\nThe Albanian independence movement emerged in 1878 with the League of Prizren (a council based in Kosovo) whose goal was cultural and political autonomy for ethnic Albanians inside the framework of the Ottoman Empire. However, the Ottomans were not prepared to grant The League's demands. Ottoman opposition to the League's cultural goals eventually helped transform it into an Albanian national movement.\n\nAlbanian nationalism overall was a reaction to the gradual breakup of the Ottoman Empire and a response to Balkan and Christian national movements that posed a threat to an Albanian population that was mainly Muslim. Efforts were devoted to including vilayets with an Albanian population into a larger unitary Albanian autonomous province within the Ottoman state while Greater Albania was not considered a priority. Albanian nationalism during the late Ottoman era was not imbued with separatism that aimed to create an Albanian nation-state, though Albanian nationalists did envisage an independent Greater Albania. Albanian nationalists were mainly focused on defending rights that were sociocultural, historic and linguistic within existing countries without being connected to a particular polity.\n\nThe imminence of collapsing Ottoman rule through military defeat during the Balkan wars pushed Albanians represented by Ismail Qemali to declare independence (28 November 1912) in Vlorë from the Ottoman Empire. The main motivation for independence was to prevent Balkan Albanian inhabited lands from being annexed by Greece and Serbia. Italy and Austria-Hungary supported Albanian independence due to their concerns that Serbia with an Albanian coast would be a rival power in the Adriatic Sea and open to influence from its ally Russia. Apart from geopolitical interests, some Great powers were reluctant to include more Ottoman Balkan Albanian inhabited lands into Albania due to concerns that it would be the only Muslim dominated state in Europe. Russo-French proposals were for a truncated Albania based on central Albania with a mainly Muslim population, which was also supported by Serbia and Greece who considered that only Muslims could only be Albanians. As more Albanians became part of the Serbian and Greek states, Albanian scholars with nationalistic perspectives interpret the declaration of independence as a partial victory for the Albanian nationalist movement.\n\nOn 7 April 1939, Italy headed by Benito Mussolini after prolonged interest and overarching sphere of influence during the interwar period invaded Albania. Italian fascist regime members such as Count Galeazzo Ciano pursued Albanian irredentism with the view that it would earn Italians support among Albanians while also coinciding with Italian war aims of Balkan conquest. The Italian annexation of Kosovo to Albania was considered a popular action by Albanians of both areas.\nWestern Macedonia was also annexed by Italy to their protectorate of Albania. In newly acquired territories, non-Albanians had to attend Albanian schools that taught a curriculum containing nationalism alongside fascism and were made to adopt Albanian forms for their names and surnames. Members from the landowning elite, liberal nationalists opposed to communism with other sectors of society in Albania came to form the Balli Kombëtar organisation and the collaborationist government under the Italians which all as nationalists sought to preserve Greater Albania. \n\nMany Kosovo Albanians were preoccupied with driving out the Serb minority, particularly the post-1919 Serbian and Montenegrin colonists, often settled on confiscated Albanian land (although the Albanians themselves had confiscated land and brutally abused during the last Ottoman years, as is well-documented). Albanians saw Serbian and Yugoslav rule as foreign, and according to Ramet they felt that anything would be better than the chauvinism, corruption, administrative hegemonism and exploitation they had experienced under the Serbian authorities. Albanians collaborated broadly with the Axis occupiers, who had promised them a Greater Albania. Collapse of Yugoslav rule resulted in actions of revenge being undertaken by Albanians, some joining the local \"Vulnetari\" militia that burned Serbian settlements and killed Serbs while interwar Serbian and Montenegrin colonists were expelled into Serbia proper. The aim of these actions were to create a homogeneous Greater Albanian state. Italian authorities in Kosovo allowed the use of the Albanian language in schools, university education and administration. The same nationalist sentiments among Albanians which welcomed the addition of Kosovo and its Albanians within an enlarged state also worked against the Italians as foreign occupation became increasingly rejected in Albania. An attempt to get Kosovan Albanians to join the resistance, a meeting in Bujan (1943-1944), northern Albania was convened between Balli Kombëtar members and Albanian communists that agreed to common struggle and maintenance of the newly expanded boundaries. The deal was opposed by Yugoslav partisans and later rescinded resulting in limited Kosovan Albanian recruits. Some Balli Kombëtar members such as Shaban Polluzha became partisans with the view that Kosovo would become part of Albania. With the end of the war, some of those Kosovan Albanians felt betrayed by the return of Yugoslav rule and for several years Albanian nationalists in Kosovo resisted both the partisans and later the new Yugoslav army. Albanian nationalists viewed their inclusion within Yugoslavia as an occupation.\n\nThe Albanian Fascist Party became the ruling party of the Italian Protectorate of Albania in 1939 and the prime minister Shefqet Verlaci approved the possible administrative union of Albania and Italy, because he wanted the Italian support in order to get the union of Kosovo, Chameria and other \"Albanian irredentism\" into \"Greater Albania\". Indeed, this unification was realized after the Axis occupation of Yugoslavia and Greece from spring 1941. The Albanian fascists claimed in May 1941 that nearly all the Albanian populated territories were united to Albania.\n\nBetween May 1941 and September 1943, Benito Mussolini placed nearly all the land inhabited by ethnic Albanians under the jurisdiction of an Albanian quisling government. That included the region of Kosovo, parts of the Republic of Macedonia and some small border areas of Montenegro. In Chameria an Albanian high commissioner, Xhemil Dino, was appointed by the Italians; but the area remained under the control of the Italian military command in Athens and so technically remained a region of Greece.\n\nWhen the Germans occupied the area and substituted the Italians, they maintained the borders created by Mussolini, but after World War II the Albanian borders were returned by the Allies to the pre-war status.\n\nThe Kosovo Liberation Army (KLA) was an ethnic-Albanian paramilitary organisation which sought the separation of Kosovo from Yugoslavia during the 1990s and the eventual creation of a \"Greater Albania\", encompassing Kosovo, Albania, and the ethnic Albanian minority of neighbouring Republic of Macedonia. The KLA found great moral and financial support among the Albanian diaspora.\n\nKLA Commander Sylejman Selimi insisted:\nBy 1998 the KLA’s operations had evolved into a significant armed insurrection. According to the report of the USCRI, the \"Kosovo Liberation Army ... attacks aimed at trying to 'cleanse' Kosovo of its ethnic Serb population.\" The UNHCR estimated the figure at 55,000 refugees who had fled to Montenegro and Central Serbia, most of whom were Kosovo Serbs. \n\nIts campaign against Yugoslav security forces, police, government officers and ethnic Serb villages precipitated a major Yugoslav military crackdown which led to the Kosovo War of 1998–1999. Military intervention by Yugoslav security forces led by Slobodan Milošević and Serb paramilitaries within Kosovo prompted an exodus of Kosovar Albanians and a refugee crisis that eventually caused NATO to intervene militarily in order to stop what was widely identified as an ongoing campaign of ethnic cleansing.\n\nThe war ended with the Kumanovo Treaty, with Yugoslav forces agreeing to withdraw from Kosovo to make way for an international presence. The Kosovo Liberation Army disbanded soon after this, with some of its members going on to fight for the UÇPMB in the Preševo Valley and others joining the National Liberation Army (NLA) and Albanian National Army (ANA) during the armed ethnic conflict in Macedonia.\n\nPolitical parties advocating and willing to fight for a Greater Albania emerged in Albania during the 2000s. They were the National Liberation Front of Albanians (KKCMTSH) and Party of National Unity (PUK) that both merged in 2002 to form the United National Albanian Front (FBKSh) which acted as the political organisation for the Albanian National Army (AKSh) militant group and consisted of some disaffected KLA and NLA members. Regarded internationally as terrorist both have gone underground and its members have been involved in various violent incidents in Kosovo, Serbia and Macedonia during the 2000s. In the early 2000s, the Liberation Army of Chameria (UCC) was a reported paramilitary formation that intended to be active in northern Greek region of Epirus. Political parties active only in the political scene exist that have a nationalist outlook are the monarchist Legality Movement Party (PLL), the National Unity Party (PBKSh) alongside the Balli Kombëtar, a party to have passed the electoral threshold and enter parliament. These political parties, some of whom advocate for a Greater Albania have been mainly insignificant and remained at the margins of the Albanian political scene. The Kosovo question has limited appeal among Albanian voters and are not interested in electing parties advocating redrawn borders creating a Greater Albania. Centenary Albanian independence celebrations in 2012 generated nationalistic commentary among the political elite of whom prime-minister Sali Berisha referred to Albanian lands as extending to Preveza, northern Greece and Preševo, southern Serbia angering Albania's neighbors. In Kosovo, a prominent left wing nationalist movement turned political party Vetëvendosje (Self Determination) has emerged who advocates for closer Kosovo-Albania relations and pan-Albanian self determination in the Balkans. Another smaller nationalist party, the Balli Kombetar Kosovë (BKK) sees itself as an heir to the original Second World War organisation that supports Kosovan independence and pan-Albanian unification. Greater Albania remains mainly in the sphere of political rhetoric and overall Balkan Albanians view EU integration as the solution to combat crime, weak governance, civil society and bringing different Albanian populations together.\n\nThe Albanian question in the Balkan peninsula is in part the consequence of the decisions made by Western powers in late 19th and early 20th century. The Treaty of San Stefano and the 1878 Treaty of Berlin assigned Albanian inhabited territories to other States, hence the reaction of the League of Prizren. One theory posits that the United Kingdom, France, Germany, and Austro-Hungary wanted to maintain a brittle balance in Europe in the late 19th century.\n\nThe degree to which different groups are working towards.and what efforts such groups are undertaking in order to achieve a Greater Albania is disputed. There seems no evidence that anything more than a few unrepresentative extremist groups are working towards this cause; the vast majority of Albanians want to live in peace with their neighbors. However, they also want the human rights of the Albanian ethnic populations in Republic of Macedonia, Serbia, Greece to be respected. An excellent example is the friendly relationship between the Republic of Montenegro and the support towards the integration of the Albanian population in Republic of Macedonia. There is Albanian representation in government, the national parliament, local government, and the business sector, and no evidence of systematic discrimination on an ethnic or religious basis against the Albanian (or indeed any other minority) population.\n\nIn 2000, the then-US Secretary of State Madeleine Albright said that the international community would not tolerate any efforts towards the creation of a Greater Albania.\n\nIn 2004, the Vetëvendosje movement was formed in Kosovo, which opposes foreign involvement in Kosovan affairs and campaigns instead for the sovereignty the people, as part of the right of self-determination. Vetëvendosje obtained 12.66% of the votes in an election in December 2010, and the party manifesto calls for a referendum on union with Albania.\n\nIn 2012, the Red and Black Alliance () was established as a political party in Albania, the core of its program is national unification of all Albanians in their native lands.\n\nIn 2012, as part of the celebrations for 100th Anniversary of the Independence of Albania, Prime Minister Sali Berisha spoke of \"Albanian lands\" stretching from Preveza in Greece to Presevo in Serbia, and from the Macedonian capital of Skopje to the Montenegrin capital of Podgorica, angering Albania's neighbors. The comments were also inscribed on a parchment that will be displayed at a museum in the city of Vlore, where the country’s independence from the Ottoman Empire was declared in 1912.\n\nKosovo has an overwhelmingly Albanian majority, estimated to be around 92%.\n\nThe irredentist claims in Montenegro are in the border areas, including Kraja, Ulcinj, Tuzi (Malësia), Plav and Gusinje, and Rožaje (Sandžak). According to the 2011 census, the Albanian proportion in those municipalities are following: Ulcinj–14,076 (70%), Tuzi–2,383 (50%), Plav–(19%), Rožaje–188 (2%). The claim on the Sandžak area, where the Albanian community is small and the Bosniak community is the majority, is based on the Albanian state borders in World War II and presence in the late Ottoman period.\n\nThe western part of the Republic of Macedonia is an area with a large ethnic Albanian minority. The Albanian population in Republic of Macedonia make up 25% of the population, numbering 509,083 in the 2002 census. Cities with Albanian majorities or large minorities include Tetovo (Tetova), Gostivar (Gostivari), Struga (Struga) and Debar (Diber).\n\nIn the 1980s, Albanian irredentist organizations appeared in Macedonia, particularly Vinica, Kicevo, Tetovo and Gostivar. In 1992, Albanian activists in Struga proclaimed also the founding of the Republic of Ilirida () with the intention of autonomy or federalization inside the Republic of Macedonia. The declaration had only a symbolic meaning and the idea of an autonomous State of Ilirida is not officially accepted by the ethnic Albanian politicians in the Republic of Macedonia.\n\nThe irredentist claims in Serbia proper (excluding Kosovo) are in the southern Preševo Valley, including municipalities of Preševo (), Bujanovac () and partially Medveđa (), where there is an Albanian community. In 2001, the Albanians were estimated to have numbered 70,000 in the area. According to the 2002 census, the Albanian proportion in those municipalities were following: Preševo–31,098 (89%), Bujanovac–23,681 (55%), Medveđa–2,816 (26%).\n\nFollowing the Kosovo War (1998–99), the Albanian separatist Liberation Army of Preševo, Medveđa and Bujanovac (, UÇPMB), fought an insurgency against the Serbian government, aiming to seceding the Preševo Valley into Kosovo.\n\nThe irredentist claim in Greece are Chameria, parts of Epirus, the historical Vilayet of Janina.\n\nThe coastal region of Thesprotia in northwestern Greece referred to by Albanians as \"Çamëria\" is sometimes included in Greater Albania. According to the 1928 census held by the Greek state, there were around 20,000 Muslim Cams in Thesprotia prefecture. They were forced to seek refuge in Albania at the end of World War II after a large part of them collaborated and committed a number of crimes together with the Nazis during the 1941–1944 period. In the first post-war census (1951), only 123 Muslim Çams were left in the area. Descendants of the exiled Muslim Chams (they claim that they are now up to 170,000 now living in Albania) claim that up to 35,000 Muslim Çams were living in southern Epirus before World War II. Many of them are currently trying to pursue legal ways to claim compensation for the properties seized by Greece. For Greece the issue \"does not exist\".\n\nInternational Crisis Group researched the issue of Pan-Albanianism and published a report titled \"Pan-Albanianism: How Big a Threat to Balkan Stability?\" on February 2004.\n\nThe International Crisis Group advised in the report the Albanian and Greek governments to endeavour and settle the longstanding issue of the Chams displaced from Greece in 1945, before it gets hijacked and exploited by extreme nationalists, and the Chams' legitimate grievances get lost in the struggle to further other national causes. Moreover, the ICG findings suggest that Albania is more interested in developing cultural and economic ties with Kosovo and maintaining separate statehood.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "5334596", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5334596", "title": "Half-foot", "text": "Half-foot\n\nHalf-foot (, ) was a kind of land tenure peculiar to northern and western Scotland. \n\nThe possessor, generally impoverished, or without facilities for working the land, often furnished the land and seed corn, and the tenant cultivated it, the produce being equally divided between them. There have been instances of it in the 20th century.\n\nOther uses: \n\n\n"}
{"id": "10713035", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10713035", "title": "Harry Schwarz", "text": "Harry Schwarz\n\nHarry Heinz Schwarz (13 May 1924 – 5 February 2010) was a South African lawyer, statesman and long-time political opposition leader against apartheid in South Africa, who eventually served as the South African Ambassador to the United States during the country's transition to majority rule.\n\nSchwarz rose from the childhood poverty he experienced as a German-Jewish refugee to become a lawyer and a member of the Transvaal Provincial Council, where from 1963 to 1974, he was Leader of the Opposition. In the 1964 Rivonia Trial he was a defence lawyer. Advocating a more aggressive political opposition to the National Party's racial policies in the 1960s and 1970s, as Leader of the United Party in Transvaal and leader of the liberal \"Young Turks\", he clashed with the United Party establishment. He pioneered the call in white politics for a negotiated end to apartheid and in 1974 signed the Mahlabatini Declaration of Faith with Mangosuthu Buthelezi for a non-racial democratic society in South Africa. He was in the opposition for over 40 years and was a founding member of the Democratic Party. In light of his record, his appointment as South African Ambassador to the United States in 1990 was widely heralded as symbolic of the government's commitment to ending apartheid, and played a significant role in renewing the nation's image as the new democratic South Africa.\n\nAs a South African Air Force World War II veteran during the 1950s, Schwarz co-founded the Torch Commando, an ex-soldiers' movement to protest against the disenfranchisement of coloured people in South Africa. Described as South Africa's \"most feisty politician\" and a political \"maverick\", he was known for his parliamentary clashes with the apartheid government over its racial and economic policies. In his political career spanning 43 years, in which he gained respect from across the political spectrum, he never lost an election. In 1988 he received the Order for Meritorious Service and received several Honorary Doctorates. He was also one of the South African Jewish community's foremost leaders and spoke out strongly against anti-semitism.\n\nSchwarz was described by the University of Stellenbosch as \"one of the conceptual and moral fathers of the new South Africa\" in the sense that he had not only been one of apartheid's most prominent opponents, but his ideas and the initiatives he had taken had played a key role in the development of the concept of a negotiated democracy in South Africa, based on the principles of freedom and justice. Nelson Mandela, a friend of his whom he visited while in prison, described him as a \"champion of the poor\".\n\nHarry Schwarz was born Heinz Schwarz to Fritz (1897–1969) and Alma Schwarz (1901–1999) in Cologne, Germany. His family belonged to the Glockengasse Synagogue. He arrived in South Africa as a Jewish refugee from Germany in 1934 with his mother and younger brother Kurt. His father Fritz, a Social Democratic Party activist, left for South Africa the night the Nazis came to power. They boarded the SS Giulio Cesare in Genoa, Italy which took them to South Africa. When they arrived in Cape Town they stayed in one room in a house in Kloof Street. Schwarz described how he was \"lucky\" as eventually he was able to sleep in a bathroom in a rusty bath. He spoke no Afrikaans or English at first and had strong memories of being taunted on the schoolyard for being different. Schwarz stated in an interview in 1991 that \"I know what the word discrimination means, not because I've read it in a book, but because I've been the subject of it. And I know what it means to be hungry.\" The discrimination and financial difficulties of his family left a strong impression on Schwarz and helped shape his political philosophy with its emphasis on social justice and the rule of law.\n\nHe attended Tamboerskloof School and South African College Schools in Cape Town and then Jeppe High School for Boys in Johannesburg.\n\nFollowing his graduation from school in 1943, he was offered a job working for a stockbroker, as well as a university scholarship. However, Schwarz instead joined the South African Air Force during World War II in order to defeat Nazism. He served as a navigator and fought in North Africa, Crete and Italy. It was in the air force that he adopted the name Harry, as his Colonel said Heinz would not stand him in good stead if he were captured by Germans. He was in 15 Squadron and seconded to the RAF. In 1984 he was made an Honorary Colonel of the 15th Squadron.\nIn 1946 he went to University of the Witwatersrand (more commonly known as Wits University) in Johannesburg with the help of a Government loan and grant, where he first befriended fellow students and future anti-apartheid political activists Nelson Mandela and Joe Slovo. He joined the United Party and assisted in the 1948 election. However, as a result of the National Party victory, he was determined to become more active and was elected Chairman of the United Party branch at the university. He argued that the National Party's victory in 1948 was reversible and anyone who opposed them should concentrate on defeating them. In an interview in 1991, Schwarz said on the National Party victory that \"To me, they were the people who had supported Germany during the war. As a young man, it was very objectionable to me that the very people I had been fighting against were the people that the National Party had supported.\" He was also president of the university's ex-servicemen's league and chair of the Law Students Council. He stood as a candidate for treasurer of the Students Representative Council and refrained from voting for himself which he considered to be unethical. When the votes were counted, it was announced that Schwarz had lost by one vote.\n\nHe was awarded a BA, with distinctions in both history and economic history, and later an LLB. In 1949 he was admitted as a solicitor and, later, as a barrister (Member of Middle Temple) in London, United Kingdom. In 1953, he became advocate at the South African Bar.\n\nIn 1963, Nelson Mandela and many other political opponents were arrested and brought to court in the famous Rivonia Trial. Harry Schwarz was one of the defence barristers in the trial defending Accused No. 8 Jimmy Kantor, who was a close friend of his. Kantor was Mandela's lawyer in the trial until he too was arrested and charged with the same crimes as Mandela. After being the subject of vicious taunting and many attempts to place him as a vital cog of MK by Percy Yutar, finally Judge Quartus de Wet discharged him, stating Accused No 8 has no case to answer. Kantor along with Rusty Bernstein were the only accused who were acquitted. Kantor noted in his autobiography, A Healthy Grave, that Schwarz refused payment. Schwarz was refused access to Mandela while he was imprisoned on Robben Island, however he was granted access to visit him after 1988 when he was transferred to Victor Verster Prison. After the trial he left the Bar and became a solicitor so that he could concentrate on fighting apartheid.\n\nDuring the trial he presented the case for Kantor as follows, \"My Lord, it is difficult to reply in a restrained fashion. My learned friend must not use words such as 'Communist' lightly, when he refers to Kantor. Kantor is not a Communist. My learned friend has used the tactics of McCarthyism in an endeavour to smear him. I think, with respect, my learned friend is allowing himself to run away with facts that are not there. His complaint in count one is not that they found files with evidence. Oh not, he says that 'we found files with nothing in them', not in Kantor's office, but in the office of Wolpe. Then my learned friend [held] that the practice had been ruined and liquidated Kantor's practice. My lord, it is not Kantor. It is not Kantor! Why I say it is so difficult to be restrained, is that my learned friend has thrown in everything that concerns every accused in this case, and says 'that is why I don't want Kantor to get bail.\n\nHarry Schwarz's political career started with his election to the Johannesburg City Council in 1951 for Booysens, which had been said to be an unwinnable seat against the National Party. Schwarz won the seat by 954 votes. Despite being the youngest person in the city council, he became chairman of the council's management committee - the most influential committee on the council. While in the council, Schwarz focused on challenging forced evictions of black and coloured people in Johannesburg, and attempted to improve housing and education. Booysens had once been occupied by Labour Party politician Jimmy Green, who was his wife's uncle, who was first elected in 1920 to the City Council.\n\nIn 1958 during a by-election Schwarz was elected into the Transvaal provincial council for the Hospital constituency. The constituency eventually was renamed Hillbrow. In 1963 he became Leader of the Opposition in the Transvaal Provincial Council, a post he would hold until 1974. He continued to practice law whilst serving in the Provincial Council and throughout his political career. However, he briefly withdrew from law between 1969 and 1974 to take up the position of Chief Executive of Merchant Bank.\n\nSchwarz's vision for the post-apartheid South Africa was embodied in a document named the \"Act of Dedication\", of which he presented to the provincial council in 1973. The document, written by him, called for the Transvaal and the rest of South Africa to adopt and subscribe to the principles of a non-discriminatory society. While the UP Transvaal caucus unanimously adopted the initiative, the National Party refused to allow it to be debated in the council and parliament. Schwarz pushed for the adoption of the act in the 1973 National UP Congress, in which he succeeded.\n\nIn 1959, Schwarz remained in the United Party after 11 liberal United Party members broke away from the party to form the Progressive Party in 1959, opting instead to change the UP from within. By the early 1970s Schwarz had become known as the leader of the liberal faction of the party, dubbed the \"Young Turks\", who wanted the UP to adopt a more aggressive approach to the National Party and its policy of apartheid. Schwarz and his Young Turks faced fierce opposition and resistance from the party's national leader Sir De Villiers Graaff and other members of the UP's \"Old Guard\". Schwarz achieved prominence as a race relations and economic reformist in the party. In 1971 he became deputy leader of the UP in the Transvaal, a post specially created for him. However, internal divisions in the party between liberals and conservatives came to a head in August 1973 when Schwarz ousted Marais Steyn as the leader of the United Party in the Transvaal. Steyn had been a MP for almost 25 years and for 15 years had been a close adviser to De Villiers Graaff. After Steyn lost the election he defected to the National Party. Schwarz's victory was a visible sign of strength from the liberals within the party.\n\nOn 4 January 1974, Harry Schwarz met and had discussions with Gatsha (later Mangosuthu) Buthelezi, Chief Executive Councillor of the black homeland of KwaZulu. They agreed on a five-point plan for racial peace in South Africa that became known as the Mahlabatini Declaration of Faith. The declaration's purpose was to provide a blueprint for government of South Africa for racial peace in South Africa. It called for negotiations involving all peoples, in order to draw up constitutional proposals stressing opportunity for all with a Bill of Rights to safeguard these rights. It suggested that the federal concept was the appropriate framework for such changes to take place. It also first affirmed that political change must take place though non-violent means. The concept of a non-discriminatory society had been outlined in the 'Act of Dedication' of 1973 that Schwarz had written, while Leader of the Opposition in the Transvaal. Schwarz had called for the Transvaal and South Africa to adopt and subscribe to the act. While the United Party Transvaal caucus unanimously adopted the initiative, the National Party refused for it to come to debate. The principles of the act were adopted at the 1973 National United Party Congress.\n\nThe declaration was the first of such agreements by acknowledged black and white leaders in South Africa that affirmed to these principles. The commitment to the peaceful pursuit of political change was declared at a time when neither the National Party or African National Congress were looking for peaceful solutions or dialogue. The declaration was heralded by the English speaking press as a breakthrough in race relations in South Africa. The declaration was endorsed by several chief ministers of the black homelands, including Cedric Phatudi (Lebowa), Lucas Mangope (Bophuthatswana) and Hudson Nisanwisi (Gazankulu). The declaration also received praise from liberal figures such as Alan Paton.\n\nThe declaration drew much media interest from both inside and outside South Africa. However, the declaration provoked an angry response from the UP's 'Old Guard', including the party's leader De Villiers Graaff and led to Schwarz and other liberals being expelled from the United Party the following year.\n\nIn March 1974 Chief Phatudi, Harry Schwarz and M. I. Mitchell (United Party MP), had discussions at Seshego. They issued a joint statement, endorsing the principles embodied in the Mahlabatini Declaration. It also stated that all South Africans must be united to meet any external threats, subversion, or terrorism, and that the best way of uniting the people to meet such threats was to give them a real stake in society which they were asked to defend.\n\nHarry Schwarz played a key role in the realignment of the opposition in South Africa. In the 1974 general election, Schwarz was elected into Parliament for Yeoville, along with other liberal members of Schwarz's Young Turks. In February 1975, Dick Enthoven MP was expelled from the United Party by Sir de Villiers Graaff for \"disloyalty\". On 11 February 1975, when asked in Parliament by a National Party MP if he supported Enthoven's liberal positions, Schwarz replied \"I make no secret of it. I am my brother's keeper\". For not following the party line, Schwarz was expelled from the party. This led to the resignation of four other MP's, Senator Brian Bramford, ten members of the Transvaal Provincial Council, which made it the official opposition party in the Transvaal Provincial Council, 14 out of the 36 Johannesburg City Councillors and four Randburg City Councillors. On the night of the expulsion, the Reform Party was launched, of which Schwarz as elected leader. The party's charter mainly incorporated the Mahlabatini Declaration's principles and called for universal franchise and for equality to be extended to all.\n\nOn 25 July 1975, the Reform Party merged with the Progressive Party to form the Progressive Reform Party. Schwarz became the party's spokesman on finance, education and Chairman of the Federal Executive, while Colin Eglin, the former leader of the Progressives was elected leader of the newly merged party. In 1977 the party was renamed the Progressive Federal Party, when additional defectors from the United Party joined. This served to finally realign opposition politics in South Africa, as the PFP became the official opposition party in South Africa, following the 1977 General Election.\n\nSchwarz, as one of his party's co-founders, finance spokesman (1975–91), defence spokesman (1975–84) and Chairman of the Federal Executive (1975–79), was one of its foremost leaders and a prominent leader of the opposition. He was regarded the PFP's \"star performer\" in parliament. Along with others such as Colin Eglin, he was an iconic opposition figure. He was known nationwide for his sharp attacks on the National Party. According to veteran progressive MP Helen Suzman, Schwarz carried out his role so effectively as Shadow Finance Minister that National Party Finance Ministers lived in terror of him, particularly when the time came for delivering the annual budget speech. He served as deputy chairman of the Parliamentary Standing Committee on Finance and was on the Parliamentary Public Accounts Committee. During his 17 years in parliament Schwarz, along with other opposition leaders like Colin Eglin, Zach de Beer and Frederik van Zyl Slabbert forcefully denounced the government's racial policies, as well as its press restrictions and economic policies. Schwarz also played a key role exposing the Muldergate Scandal of 1979, that led to the resignation of Prime Minister B. J. Vorster, acting as the PFP's representative to the investigation commission. On several occasions, Schwarz received behind-the-scenes offers to take up a Cabinet position under a National Party government, which he refused every time.\n\nSchwarz was often involved in heated clashes in parliament with government figures. In June 1980, Prime Minister P.W. Botha said to Schwarz, \"You're the last person who will dictate to me\", who was responding to Schwarz's accusation that the PM would be failing in his duty to South Africa unless he publicly repudiated the Minister of Posts, Hennie Smit, for his 'slow-thinking' remarks on Schwarz. In August 1989, Schwarz debated with Minister of the Budget Kent Durr live on Television in the House of Assembly. Schwarz slammed the NP economic policies and was regarded to have won the debate.\n\nIn 1979, Schwarz appealed to the National Party and its leader to reconsider a bill that would, in the PFP's view, heavily restrict press freedom. He urged the Prime Minister: \"I make this appeal to Mr Botha: Show this statesmanship, show that at this time you will not allow our unity of purpose to overcome the real problems to be threatened.\" In 1980, the National Party introduced the National Key Points Act that made those responsible for unauthorised reporting of incidents of sabotage or other attacks on declared national strategic targets a criminal. Schwarz slammed the attempts to restrict press freedoms, and stated that \"Society as a whole is not condemned because individuals transgress, and nor should the press as a whole be judges by the actions of individuals.\" Stating that press restrictions marked a \"turning point\" in South African politics, he also argued that press freedom was a \"precious treasure\" and a free and courageous press was a major weapon in South Africa's defence against external threats.\n\nIn August 1983 during the Constitutional Reform Debate Harry Schwarz submitted a motion calling for a 'Bill of Rights' to be incorporated in the new constitution of South Africa, the first motion of its kind ever brought before Parliament. He stated that the Bill should guarantee freedom from discrimination on the ground of race, colour, sex or creed, freedom of conscience and religion, of thought, belief, opinion and expression, including freedom of the press, of association, peaceful assembly and movement, and freedom to pursue the gaining of a livelihood. It also included freedom from deprivation of life, liberty, security and property, except in accordance with the principles of fundamental justice. It would also guarantee equality before the law and equal protection and benefit of law.\n\nSchwarz argued that if included in the constitution of the republic, it would act as a \"protector of rights many people had struggled to achieve in South Africa\" as well as to \"act as an inspiration\" to the people of South Africa and would \"be a unifying factor in a country in which unity of people is essential for survival\". While virtually all MPs of the Progressive Federal Party supported the bill, no other party in Parliament supported it. Rejecting Schwarz's proposal, Daan van der Merwe of the Conservative Party stated that the bill, based on a \"leftist-liberal political philosophy\", would jeopardise the freedom of the white man. New Republic Party leader Vause Raw said Schwarz \"a master at platitudes\" was seeking idealistic freedoms that did not exist anywhere in the world. Following the rejection of Schwarz's bill, fellow PFP MPs' Helen Suzman, Colin Eglin, Ray Swart and Dave Dalling attempted a further four times to introduce a Bill of Rights. The Bills' were effectively blocked by the National Party by placing them at the end of the order paper. The constitution of the new South Africa, signed into law in 1996, includes a Bill of Rights, which includes the same principles of the 1983 motion.\nWhile distinctly on the left of South African politics, he was perceived to be on the right-wing of the PFP mainly due to his favouring strong military defence and his insistence that political change must take place without the disruption of law and order, which earned him the nickname \"Harry the Hawk Schwarz\". He often found himself in dispute with some members of the original Progressive Party, particularly Helen Suzman. Colleagues would often refer the clashes they had in the parliamentary caucus meetings as \"the Helen and Harry show\". Suzman wrote of her relations with Schwarz in her autobiography, \"In No Uncertain Terms: A South African Memoir\": following the merger between the PP and Schwarz's Reform Party \"I stayed in the party, but relations between Harry Schwarz and myself were very strained for some time thereafter. They improved only in 1986 when Frederik van Zyl Slabbert resigned from Parliament and the Progressive Federal Party. Harry Schwarz and I were the two most outraged members of the caucus, and our other differences faded into insignificance as a result. We developed a mutual respect for one another. Schwarz was an extremely able MP with a good financial brain, and a hard worker who could devastate National Party members in Parliament, especially Ministers of Finance, who feared his vigorous attacks. Like me, he could be unpleasant both in and out of the House. The differences we had were not on racial policy, but on his hawkish support of the South African Defence Force.\"\n\nSchwarz was one of the founding members of the Democratic Party. During the late 1980s and early 1990s, as its Spokesman on Finance, formulated its social market policy. Given South Africa's complex character, Mr Schwarz supported a federal system similar to that of the United States, as well as a justiciable Bill of Rights to protect the rights of minorities as well as the majority. This was also longstanding policy of the former Progressive Party dating back to the report of their Molteno Commission of the early 1960s. His economic philosophy was summed up in a phrase he often used: \"Freedom is incomplete if it is exercised in poverty\".\n\nOn 6 February 1991, he ended his career in parliament following his appointment as the South African ambassador to the United States. His farewell speech to parliament was entitled \"Look after my people while I'm gone\".\n\nAfter the 1964 Rivonia Trial, where Schwarz had been on the defence team and where his university friend Nelson Mandela was imprisoned, Schwarz was barred from gaining access to Mandela. However, after Mandela was moved to Victor Verster Prison, various restrictions were lifted upon Mandela, including more lenient visitation rights. On 23 November 1989, Schwarz, following a request from Mandela, visited him in prison. After his visit, Schwarz called for the \"immediate and unconditional\" release of Mandela, stating that this was \"in the interest of all South Africans - black and white - that this should happen as soon as possible\".\n\nHarry Schwarz was the first serving politician from the parliamentary opposition ranks to be appointed to a senior ambassadorial post in South African history as well as the first Jewish ambassador. He was also accredited as the first South African High Commissioner to Barbados in 1993 when diplomatic relations opened. Schwarz had previously received behind-the-scenes offers to accept a Cabinet position, by President P.W. Botha and Prime Minister B.J. Vorster, but refused every time due to his opposition to apartheid. He agreed to the appointment of ambassador because of the government's commitment to the fundamental reforms that he had fought for, as well as on the terms that the National Party would not try to take his seat in Yeoville.\n\nIn an interview with the New York Times Schwarz said that \"He hasn't asked me to change my political convictions,\" speaking of President de Klerk. \"He knows that I'm implacably opposed to apartheid. Otherwise, there's no logic in asking me to do this job.\" Nor, Mr. Schwarz added, was he bound for Washington to represent South Africa's five million whites. \"I've made it clear that I want to be ambassador for 37 million people.\" A comment in the \"Boston Herald\", typified the reaction among much of the US press: \"When a man who has devoted most of his life to the struggle for a new South Africa tells you that apartheid is dead and that sanctions are holding up its burial, he speaks with a moral authority that is difficult to assail.\" The fact that Schwarz, a well known and respected anti-apartheid leader was willing to accept the post was widely acknowledged in South Africa as a further demonstration of President F. W de Klerk's determination to introduce a new democratic system.\n\nSchwarz has been credited as having played one of the leading roles in the renewal of relations between the two nations. The Cape Times described Schwarz as having \"engineered a state of US/South Africa relations better than it has ever been\". The fact that Schwarz, for decades a well known anti-apartheid figurehead, was willing to accept the position was widely acknowledged as a highly symbolic demonstration of President F. W de Klerk's determination to introduce a new democratic system. During Schwarz's tenure, he negotiated the lifting of US sanctions against South Africa, secured a $600 million aid package from President Bill Clinton, signed the Nuclear Non-Proliferation Treaty in 1991 and hosted President Mandela's state visit to the US in October 1994.\n\nAfter the African National Congress victory in the 1994 General election, President Nelson Mandela requested Schwarz remain as ambassador until after his state visit in October of that year, of which Schwarz agreed. Schwarz resigned his post as ambassador and returned to South Africa in November 1994, following his three and-a-half-year tenure as South African ambassador to the United States. At an event sponsored by the South African Jewish Board of Deputies in his honour, Schwarz urged the Jewish community to make the best of the changes taking place in South Africa and to contribute actively to the success of the country.\n\nBeginning in the mid-seventies, Schwarz emerged as one of the South African Jewish community's foremost leaders. Schwarz often led the opposition to anti-semitic comments and movements by prominent public figures, and was often involved in heated clashes in parliament. In April 1982, Schwarz was ordered out of the parliamentary chamber after he described Nationalist MP Andre Fourie as \"vuilgoed' (rubbish), in response to Fourie saying that he was \"enough to make a Jew anti-Semitic\". In August 1986, he took up the issue of anti-semitism within the far-right Conservative Party after its leader Clive Derby-Lewis responded to a question of whether Jews were \"money and power grabbers\" by asking \"Is that anti-semitic or fact?\". He also slammed the CP's supporters use of Nazi symbols and banners, and for burning the Israeli flags. While affirming that \"the days of the Jews walking into the gas chambers are over\", Schwarz also warned that the Jewish community should \"not paint everybody with a broad brush\", and that impulsive reactions should be avoided before \"waging war\". Furthermore, Schwarz would often use his access and relations with government ministers, police and the military establishment to investigate incidents of anti-semitism.\n\nIn 1987, Schwarz was involved in a heated clash with Eugène Terre'Blanche, Leader of the far-right paramilitary Afrikaner Weerstandsbeweging, after Schwarz confronted him during a speech over the organisation's racial policy towards non-Afrikaans and non-Christian citizens of South Africa. Following the confrontation Schwarz received a huge standing ovation from both English and Afrikaans members of the audience.\n\nIn relation to apartheid, Schwarz argued that Judaism was fundamentally opposed to segregation, and that \"If we rationalise or condone discrimination against one group, we have compromised our principles and we are then not true to our beliefs or our history\". He also argued that violent change could ultimately lead to a nondemocratic government, incompatible with Jewish ethics and with the interests of the Jewish community. He emphasized that Jews needed not only a democratic society for all, but also \"The right to follow [their] own religion and love for Israel freely.\" He was assured in private meetings by Israeli Prime Minister's Shimon Peres and Yitzhak Shamir that Jews in South Africa would not become isolated and links with Israel would be maintained. He played an increasingly important role on the Jewish Board of Deputies from the 1970s, serving as chairman of its committee on international relations and often acting as spokesman for the board to Jewish agencies abroad. In 2005, he was made an honorary vice-president of the board, and remained active until his death.\n\nSchwarz's lifelong friendship with Nelson Mandela also helped to ensure Jews in South Africa did not feel isolated with the unbanning of the African National Congress, and the subsequent election of Mandela as president.\n\nWhile serving as a senior politician as well as practicing law, Harry Schwarz was also a prominent and respected business figure in South Africa. He held directorships of multiple companies, notably serving as Chief Executive of Merchant Bank between 1969 and 1974.\n\nHarry Schwarz retired from politics upon returning from Washington, and returned to law to practice in Schwarz-North in Johannesburg and continued to work until he died. His areas of legal practice were primarily corporate and commercial with special interests in banking, insurance, diplomacy and advocacy. He was highly critical of the Democratic Party's decision to merge with the New National Party in 2000 and in 2008 stated that the DP \"should have sought an alliance with black political groups\". He remained active in the Jewish community, notably serving as president of the South Africa-Israel Chamber of Commerce between 1999 and 2010 and vice-president of the South African Jewish Board of Deputies. Schwarz delivered his final public speech at the South African Parliament in November 2009 at a celebration of the fiftieth anniversary of the formation of the Progressive Party, in which he stated that \"freedom is incomplete if it is exercised in poverty\". Upon returning to South Africa, Schwarz and his wife set up a charity trust called the Schwarz Upliftment Trust. He lived in Johannesburg with his wife Annette, who is an accomplished artist and ran all of his election campaigns. They were married for 57 years with three children and four grandchildren.\n\nOn the morning of 5 February 2010, the South African Jewish Board of Deputies announced that Schwarz had died, following a short illness, at the age of 85. He was buried on Sunday 7 February in the section of honor in the West Park Cemetery in Johannesburg; the funeral was attended by hundreds of guests and family members.\n\nDemocratic Alliance leader and Leader of the Opposition Helen Zille led tributes to Schwarz. She said\n\nHarry Schwarz will be remembered for his signal contribution to the development of our democracy. His piercing intellect, and long professional experience in banking, made him the most astute analyst in Parliament on economic and financial matters during his terms in office. He had strong leadership qualities and could inspire people to great achievements. He was an outstanding debater, both inside and outside Parliament. He could stand his ground against all-comers. His principled and steadfast resistance to racial nationalism was rooted in the key role he played in fighting Nazism during World War 2. He continued his resistance to racial nationalism through his long and distinguished career in South African opposition politics. He has engraved his place in South Africa's political history. We will always remember him.\n\nSouth African President Jacob Zuma paid tribute to Schwarz in the introduction of his State of the Nation address to Parliament on 11 February 2010, the 20th anniversary of Nelson Mandela's release from prison and the 35th anniversary of the founding of Schwarz's Reform Party.\n\nIn a statement the Jewish Board of Deputies said of Schwarz: \"One of the last of a generation of German Jewish refugees from Nazism who came to South Africa in the 1930s, he rendered sterling service to his adopted country, whether in the political, diplomatic, human rights, legal or Jewish communal fields.\" It stated that he was \"amongst the most forthright and effective campaigners against apartheid\" and said how he \"remained actively involved in Jewish communal work to the very end.\" Zev Krengel, chairman of the South African Jewish Board of Deputies, said that \"He was a man of formidable intellect and absolute integrity and was throughout his life a brave, unyielding fighter for justice.\" Rabbi Mendel Rabinowitz, who conducted the funeral said \"Those like Harry, who contribute to society in so many capacities for so many years never die. Their bodies are laid to rest but the memory of them continues to live on.\"\n\nOthers such as former Leader of the Opposition Frederik van Zyl Slabbert, former Foreign Minister Pik Botha and the African Christian Democratic Party paid tribute to Schwarz for his record as an anti-apartheid campaigner and for his contribution to democracy and human rights in South Africa.\n\n\nSir John Adamson High's School's hall was named, and remains to be, after Schwarz who served as the first chairperson of the school's governing body.\n\nFreedom is incomplete if it is exercised in poverty.\n\nTo risk making predictions is rather presumptuous and unwise. If I'm wrong, it will never be forgotten. If I'm right, no one will remember.\n\nMorality is cheap when someone else is paying.\n\nLaws alone is not enough to ensure that freedom is safeguarded. What is required is a spirit of freedom among the people concerned. There must be an atmosphere of respect, a feeling of belonging together, an atmosphere of harmony with fellow beings.\n\nWe are a country with a people who are removing the shackles of apartheid and will create a just economic system and a true democracy.\n\nIt is important that in the process of change, existing institutions of value and means of production are not destroyed. The fabric of society, however critical one may be of its present structures, should be adopted and modified where required, but not destroyed.\n\n"}
{"id": "174102", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=174102", "title": "Home rule", "text": "Home rule\n\nHome rule is government of a colony, dependent country, or region by its own citizens. It is thus the power of a \"constituent\" part (administrative division) of a state to exercise such of the state's powers of governance within its own administrative area that have been decentralized to it by the central government.\n\nIn the British Isles, it traditionally referred to self-government, devolution or independence of its constituent nations—initially Ireland, and later Scotland, Wales, and Northern Ireland. In the United States and other countries organised as federations of states, the term usually refers to the process and mechanisms of self-government as exercised by municipalities, counties, or other units of local government at the level below that of a federal state (e.g., US state, in which context see special legislation). It can also refer to the similar system under which Greenland and the Faroe Islands are associated with Denmark.\n\nHome rule is not, however, comparable with federalism. Whereas states in a federal system of government (e.g., Canada, Federal Republic of Germany, Switzerland, Brazil, Ethiopia and the United States) have a guaranteed constitutional existence, a devolved home rule system of government is created by ordinary legislation and can be reformed, or even abolished, by repeal or amendment of that ordinary legislation.\n\nA legislature may, for example, create home rule for an administrative division, such as a province, a county, or a department, so that a local county council, county commission, parish council, or Board of supervisors may have jurisdiction over its unincorporated areas, including important issues like zoning. Without this, the division is simply an extension of the higher government. The legislature can also establish or eliminate municipal corporations, which have home rule within town or city limits through the city council. The higher government could also abolish counties/townships, redefine their boundaries, or dissolve their home-rule governments, according to the relevant laws.\n\nThe issue of Irish home rule was the dominant political question of British and Irish politics at the end of the 19th and beginning of the 20th centuries.\n\nFrom the late nineteenth century, Irish leaders of the Home Rule League, the predecessor of the Irish Parliamentary Party, under Isaac Butt, William Shaw, and Charles Stewart Parnell demanded a form of home rule, with the creation of an Irish parliament within the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Ireland. This demand led to the eventual introduction of four Home Rule Bills, of which two were passed, the Third Home Rule Act won by John Redmond and most notably the Government of Ireland Act 1920 (which created the home rule parliaments of Northern Ireland and Southern Ireland – the latter state did not in reality function and was replaced by the Irish Free State).\n\nThe home rule demands of the late nineteenth and early twentieth century differed from earlier demands for Repeal by Daniel O'Connell in the first half of the nineteenth century. Whereas home rule meant a constitutional movement towards a national All-Ireland parliament in part under Westminster, \"repeal\" meant the repeal of the 1801 Act of Union (if need be, by physical force) and the creation of an entirely independent Irish state, separated from the United Kingdom, with only a shared monarch joining them.\n\n\nLiberal leader Joseph Chamberlain led the battle against Home Rule in Parliament. He broke with the Liberal leader William Ewart Gladstone who insisted on Home Rule, and in 1886 formed a new party, the Liberal Unionist Party. It helped defeat Home Rule and eventually merged with the Conservative party. Chamberlain used anti-Catholicism to built a base for the new party among \"Orange\" Nonconformist Protestant elements in Britain and Ireland. Liberal Unionist John Bright coined the party's catchy slogan, \"Home rule means Rome rule.\"\n\nSeveral nationalist leaders banded together in 1916 under the leadership of Annie Besant to voice a demand for self-government, and to obtain the status of a Dominion within the British Empire as enjoyed by Australia, Canada, South Africa, New Zealand and Newfoundland at the time.\n\nWhile enjoying considerable popularity for some years, its growth and activity were stalled by the rise of Mohandas Gandhi and his \"satyagraha\" art of revolution: non-violent, but mass-based civil disobedience, aimed at complete independence.\n\nIn a similar fashion to Ireland, supporters of home rule in Scotland have historically desired greater levels of devolved governance within the United Kingdom. Although the term 'home rule' has been largely superseded by 'devolution', the home rule movement can be seen as the forerunner to the creation of the current devolved Scottish Parliament.\n\nAdministrative devolution was granted to Scotland, with the creation of the Scottish Office, in 1885. In the mid-20th century, the home rule movement became significant, campaigning for a Scottish assembly. Between 1947 and 1950, the Scottish Covenant, a petition requesting a Scottish legislature within the UK, received over two million signatures. It was not until 1979 that devolution entered the political sphere – the Scottish devolution referendum, 1979 was held. Despite a vote of 51.6% in favour of devolution, the Scotland Act 1978 was not put into effect due to a requirement that the 'Yes' vote receive the support of 40% of the electorate, which was not met on 63.8% turnout. In 1999, due to the success of a second referendum, the Scottish Parliament was created.\n\nEnglish home rule has been discussed in relation to proposals for constitutional changes regarding England following the 2014 Scottish independence referendum.\n\nIn the United States, some states constitutionally or legislatively grant home rule to cities, counties, and municipalities within their borders. These are called \"home rule states.\" Local governments in home rule states are free to pass laws and ordinances as they see fit to further their operations, within the bounds of the state and federal constitutions. In other states, local governments have only the authority expressly granted to them by state legislatures, typically in accordance with the legal principle known as Dillon's Rule.\n\nThe US Constitution gives jurisdiction over the capital city (District of Columbia or Washington, D.C.) to the United States Congress in \"all cases whatsoever\". This arrangement is due to the fact that the District is neither a state, nor part of a state. At certain times, and presently since 1973, Congress has provided for D.C. government to be carried out primarily by locally elected officials. However, congressional oversight of this local government still exists, and locally elected officials' powers could theoretically be revoked at any time.\n\nThe United States federal government provides limited self-rule to some federally recognised Native American tribes over their lands on reservations. Tribal lands are recognised as \"dependent domestic nations\" and operate a parallel system of governance and law independent of the state which the reservation lies within, sometimes including separate police forces. For instance, some tribes are permitted to operate gambling establishments and produce narcotics which may be illegal in the surrounding state or states. Reservations are not states and have no direct representation in Congress, and the citizens vote as citizens of the state the reservation lies within. Furthermore, unlike the sovereignty of state legislatures, tribal sovereignty and land ownership are not guaranteed by the Constitution and is granted only by an act of Congress, which can be repealed or altered at any time.\n\nThe Faroe Islands is a self-governing country in the Danish Realm. Home rule was granted by the Parliament of Denmark in 1948, with further autonomy granted in 2005. Denmark's monarch is the Faroese head of state. The Faroe Islands are not part of the European Union, even though Denmark is.\n\nGreenland is a self-governing country in the Danish Realm. Following a referendum in Greenland where the majority favored a higher degree of autonomy, home rule was granted by the Parliament of Denmark in 1979. After another referendum, further autonomy was granted in 2009. Denmark's monarch is Greenland's head of state. Greenland is not part of the European Union, even though Denmark is.\n\n"}
{"id": "15919284", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15919284", "title": "Improved water source", "text": "Improved water source\n\nAn improved water source (or improved drinking-water source or improved water supply) is a term used to categorize certain types or levels of water supply for monitoring purposes. It is defined as a type of water source that, by nature of its construction or through active intervention, is likely to be protected from outside contamination, in particular from contamination with fecal matter. \n\nThe term was coined by the Joint Monitoring Program (JMP) for Water Supply and Sanitation of UNICEF and WHO in 2002 to help monitor the progress towards Goal Number 7 of the Millennium Development Goals (MDGs). The opposite of \"improved water source\" has been termed \"unimproved water source\" in the JMP definitions. \n\nIn 2017, JMP defined a new term: \"basic water service\". This is defined as the drinking water coming from an improved source, and provided the collection time is not more than 30 minutes for a round trip. A lower level of service is now called \"limited water service\" which is the same as basic service but the collection time is longer than 30 minutes.\n\nTo allow for international comparability of estimates for monitoring the Millennium Development Goals (MDGs), the World Health Organization/UNICEF Joint Monitoring Program (JMP) for Water Supply and Sanitation defines \"improved\" drinking water sources as follows: \n\n\nWater sources that are not considered as \"improved\" are:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "65662", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=65662", "title": "Institute for Historical Review", "text": "Institute for Historical Review\n\nThe Institute for Historical Review (IHR), founded in 1978, is an American organization best known for publishing articles and books promoting Holocaust denial, a practice which attracted notoriety to the IHR. It is considered by many scholars to be central to the international Holocaust denial movement. IHR is widely regarded as antisemitic and as having links to neo-Nazi organizations. The Institute published the \"Journal of Historical Review\" until 2002, but now disseminates its materials through its website and via email. The Institute is affiliated with the Legion for the Survival of Freedom and Noontide Press.\n\nIn 2009, Institute director Mark Weber published an article questioning the relevance of \"Holocaust revisionism\" in general, triggering infighting in the movement.\n\nThe IHR was founded in 1978 by David McCalden, also known as Lewis Brandon, a former member of the British National Front, and Willis Carto, the head of the now-defunct Liberty Lobby. Liberty Lobby was an antisemitic organization best known for publishing \"The Spotlight\", now reorganized as the \"American Free Press\". Austin App, a La Salle University professor credited for being the first major American holocaust denier, inspired the creation of the IHR. Dave McCalden left the IHR in 1981. Tom Marcellus became its director, and Carto lost control of it in 1993, in an internal power struggle. Since 1995, the director of the IHR has been Mark Weber, who previously worked with the white supremacist National Alliance. Since taking over, Weber has continued to publish writing on the Holocaust and on World War II and has pushed to broaden the institute's mandate. He has been editor of the IHR's \"Journal of Historical Review\" for nine years. Its main form of spreading its message is through its website \"IHR Update\" and e-mail list. The website that Weber has built features such articles as \"The Jewish Role in the Bolshevik Revolution\" and \"Israel at 60: A Grim Balance Sheet.\"\n\nAt the IHR's first conference in 1979, IHR publicly offered a reward of $50,000 for verifiable \"proof that gas chambers for the purpose of killing human beings existed at or in Auschwitz.\" This money (and an additional $40,000) was eventually paid in 1985 to Auschwitz survivor Mel Mermelstein, who, represented by public-interest lawyer William John Cox, sued the IHR for breach of contract for initially ignoring his evidence (a signed testimony of his experiences in Auschwitz). On October 9, 1981, both parties in the Mermelstein case filed motions for summary judgment in consideration of which Judge Thomas T. Johnson of the Superior Court of Los Angeles County took \"judicial notice of the fact that Jews were gassed to death at the Auschwitz Concentration Camp in occupied Poland during the summer of 1944.\" On August 5, 1985, Judge Robert A. Wenke entered a judgment based upon the Stipulation for Entry of Judgment agreed upon by the parties on July 22, 1985. The judgment required IHR and other defendants to pay $90,000 to Mermelstein and to issue a letter of apology to \"Mr. Mel Mermelstein, a survivor of Auschwitz-Birkenau and Buchenwald, and all other survivors of Auschwitz\" for \"pain, anguish and suffering\" caused to them.\n\nOn July 4, 1984, a firebomb destroyed the Institute's offices and warehouse. Thousands of books, cassette tapes, and pamphlets, 90% of their inventory, were lost. Carto had not insured the facilities or the stock.\n\nIn 1996, IHR won a $6,430,000 judgment in a lawsuit against Carto in which IHR alleged that Carto embezzled $7.5 million that had been left to IHR from the estate of Jean Edison Farrel.\n\nIn 2001, Eric Owens, a former employee, alleged that Mark Weber and Greg Raven from the IHR's staff had been planning to sell their mailing lists to either the Anti-Defamation League or the Church of Scientology.\n\nIn January 2009, Weber, the IHR's director, released an essay titled, \"How Relevant Is Holocaust Revisionism?\" In it, he acknowledged the death of millions of Jews but did not wholly reject Holocaust denial. He noted that Holocaust denial had attracted little support over the years: \"It's gotten some support in Iran, or places like that, but as far as I know, there is no history department supporting writing by these folks.\" Accordingly, he recommended that emphasis be placed instead on opposing \"Jewish-Zionist power\", which some commentators claim is a shift to a directly antisemitic position.\n\nThe Institute for Historical Review describes itself as on its website a \"public-interest educational, research and publishing center dedicated to promoting greater public awareness of history.\"\n\nAlthough the Institute for Historical Review comments on a variety of subjects, it is most noted and criticized for its Holocaust denial. IHR is widely regarded as antisemitic and as having links to neo-Nazi organizations. Multiple writers have stated that its primary focus is denying key facts of Nazism and the genocide of Jews.\n\nWhen the Institute devoted itself to publishing Holocaust-denial material, it insisted that its work in this regard was \"revisionism\" rather than denial:\n\nThe Institute does not \"deny the Holocaust.\" Every responsible scholar of twentieth century history acknowledges the great catastrophe that befell European Jewry during World War II. All the same, the IHR has over the years published detailed books and numerous probing essays that call into question aspects of the orthodox, Holocaust-extermination story, and highlight specific Holocaust exaggerations and falsehoods.\n\nOn the IHR website, Barbara Kulaszka defends the distinction between \"denial\" and \"revisionism\" by arguing that considerable revisions to History have been made over the years by historians and concludes:\n\nFor purposes of their own, powerful, special-interest groups desperately seek to keep substantive discussion of the Holocaust story taboo. One of the ways they do this is by purposely mischaracterizing revisionist scholars as \"deniers.\"\n\nAmerican environmentalist Paul Rauber wrote:\n\nThe question [of whether the IHR denies the Holocaust] appears to turn on IHR's Humpty-Dumpty word game with the word Holocaust. According to Mark Weber, associate editor of the IHR's Journal of Historical Review [now Director of the IHR], \"If by the 'Holocaust' you mean the political persecution of Jews, some scattered killings, if you mean a cruel thing that happened, no one denies that. But if one says that the 'Holocaust' means the systematic extermination of six to eight million Jews in concentration camps, that's what we think there's not evidence for.\" That is, IHR doesn't deny that the Holocaust happened; they just deny that the word 'Holocaust' means what people customarily use it for.\n\nAccording to British historian of Germany Richard J. Evans:\n\nLike many individual Holocaust deniers, the Institute as a body denied that it was involved in Holocaust denial. It called this a 'smear' which was 'completely at variance with the facts' because 'revisionist scholars' such as Faurisson, Butz 'and bestselling British historian David Irving acknowledge that hundreds of thousands of Jews were killed and otherwise perished during the Second World War as a direct and indirect result of the harsh anti-Jewish policies of Germany and its allies'. But the concession that a relatively small number of Jews were killed [has been] routinely used by Holocaust deniers to distract attention from the far more important fact of their refusal to admit that the figure ran into the millions, and that a large proportion of these victims were systematically murdered by gassing as well as by shooting.\n\nIn 2007, the United Kingdom's Channel 4 described the IHR as a \"pseudo-academic body based in the United States which is dedicated to denying that the Holocaust happened,\" while the \"Pittsburgh Post-Gazette\" called the IHR a \"blatantly anti-Semitic assortment of pseudo-scholars\".\n\nIn an article published in \"Hit list Magazine\" in 2002, author Kevin Coogan claimed there had been attempts to forge ties between Western Holocaust-denial groups such as the IHR and \"radical Middle Eastern extremists.\" According to Coogan, Ahmed Rami, a former Moroccan military officer who \"founded Radio Islam to disseminate antisemitic, Holocaust denying, and often pro-Nazi propaganda,\" tried to organize, with the IHR, a conference in a Hezbollah-controlled section of Beirut, Lebanon.\n\nThe \"Daily Star\", the leading English-language paper in Lebanon, in response to a planned IHR meeting in the country, called its members \"loathsome pseudo-historians\" and the Institute itself an \"international hate group.\" The paper reported \"one former PLO official [stating], 'with friends like that, we don't need enemies'.\"\n\nThe Southern Poverty Law Center lists the IHR as a hate group. British journalist and writer Oliver Kamm, writing for \"The Jewish Chronicle\", called IHR \"a pseudo-scholarly body\".\n\nThe \"Holocaust revisionist\" arguments published by the IHR are not regarded as serious historical research by mainstream historians and academics; rather, they are regarded as works of pseudo-science aimed at proving that the Holocaust did not happen. The editorial board of one of the leading historical journals, \"The Journal of American History\", wrote, \"We all abhor, on both moral and scholarly grounds, the substantive arguments of the Institute for Historical Review. We reject their claims to be taken seriously as historians.\" In response, IHR printed Weber's letter disputing the claims.\n\nIn April 2004, following a complaint by the David S. Wyman Institute for Holocaust Studies, \"The Nation\" magazine refused to accept advertising from the IHR, stating \"[T]here is a strong presumption against censoring any advertisement, especially if we disagree with its politics. This case, however, is different. Their arguments are 'patently fraudulent. Weber responded with critical commentary in a letter to Leigh Novog of the advertising department of \"The Nation\".\n\nThe IHR published the \"Journal of Historical Review\", which its critics – including the ADL, the Danish Center for Holocaust and Genocide studies, and other scholars, such as Robert Hanyok, a National Security Agency historian – accused of being pseudo-scientific. Hanyok referred to the IHR as a \"scholarly organisation\", but denounced them because \"in its content, the JHR carries a heavy emphasis on articles pressing a revisionist or denial viewpoint about the holocaust.\"\n\nThe journal, \"History Teacher\", wrote of the \"Journal of Historical Review\" that the \"magazine is shockingly racist and antisemitic: articles on 'America's Failed Racial Policy' and anti-Israel pieces accompany those about gas chambers ... They clearly have no business claiming to be a continuation of the revisionist tradition, and should be referred to as 'Holocaust Deniers'.\"\n\nThe journal commenced publication in the spring of 1980 as a quarterly periodical. Publication was suspended in 1986-87, and thereafter continued until 2002. Publication of the journal was halted in 2002 due to \"lack of staff and funding\", according to the organization's website.\n\n"}
{"id": "28098423", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28098423", "title": "Jewish Council on Urban Affairs", "text": "Jewish Council on Urban Affairs\n\nJewish Council on Urban Affairs (JCUA) is a not-for-profit organization based in Chicago, Ill., that works with diverse neighborhoods and community groups to battle discrimination, antisemitism, poverty and other forms of oppression. Judy Levey is the current executive director.\n\nAccording to Slingshot, a Resource Guide to Jewish Innovation, \"For 45 years, the Jewish Council on Urban Affairs (JCUA) has been perceived by many as the social consciousness of the Chicago-area Jewish community\". According to Sojourners magazine, JCUA is the preeminent model for today's Jewish social justice organizations. As a Chicago-based organization, JCUA pioneered the American Jewish community's participation in social justice work. Since 1964, JCUA has been working with neighborhoods targeted by social and economic depression and collaborates actively with immigrant communities to promote human rights and social justice. Working with other community-based organizations, JCUA focuses on issues that affect urban communities, such as \"poverty, education, employment, housing, transportation and crime\". JCUA mobilizes the Chicago-area Jewish community in an effort to build partnerships and to advocate on behalf of disenfranchised Chicago residents.\n\nJCUA was founded in 1964 by Rabbi Robert Marx, who at the time was the Midwest Director of the Union of American Hebrew Congregations (now the Union for Reform Judaism) and a committed civil rights activist.\n\nJCUA's origins can be traced to the civil rights movement of the 1960s when Rabbi Robert Marx marched alongside Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. in his Open Housing March in Marquette Park. JCUA was established as a Jewish voice promoting human rights and social justice for Chicago's neighborhoods. In its early years, JCUA worked with the Contract Buyers League to fight unfair real estate practices in Westside homes that were causing excessive fines and evictions of black homeowners.\n\nThe first staff member of JCUA was Lewis Kreinberg, a young graduate student of the University of Wisconsin. Kreinberg's first assignment was to work with the Northwest Community Organization (NCO) to counter slum landlords who were exploiting tenants.\n\nJCUA continued its extensive work on affordable housing. The organization supported non-profit community based developers, advocated for improved tenant living conditions, assisted in organizing tenant unions, and aided in the formation and staffing of the Public Welfare Coalition.\n\nJCUA focused on intergroup collaboration, working with Chicago's diverse racial, ethnic, and religious communities. The organization engaged in dialogue with the African American community, and together created a service cooperative to focus on the needs of small local businesses. JCUA joined a coalition with African American and Latino communities to address job discrimination in Chicago-area corporations and to protest the Nazi march in Marquette Park. Working with local organizations in West Town, JCUA rallied in opposition to the post office, which at the time was practicing employment discrimination against Latino.\n\nThe Union of American Hebrew Congregations (now the Union for Reform Judaism) and JCUA created a summer youth program called the Youth Mitzvah Corps, empowering young people to volunteer in the inner city.\n\nJane Ramsey was the organization's executive director from 1980 - 2012. As the [American] public was awakening to South Africa's system of institutionalized racism, JCUA passed a resolution that condemned South Africa's apartheid policies and called upon the organization's membership to divest from companies engaged in business with South Africa.\n\nAs in the previous decade, JCUA continued its focus on local social services, assisting in the formation and staffing of the Chicago Coalition for Voter Registration, a group organized to educate about widespread homelessness in Chicago. Continuing its struggle for increased affordable housing, JCUA developed strategies to provide more low-income rental properties for the Latino community in Humboldt Park and for homeless women in Uptown, Edgewater, and Rogers Park. Working in several coalitions, JCUA continued the struggle for the preservation and rehabilitation of low-income and public housing. The Community Ventures Program allowed JCUA members to provide no-interest loans to non-profit developers.\n\nOther JCUA campaigns focused on hunger and workers rights. Working with ICARE, JCUA organized statements for City Council which advocated for increased city funding and resources for hunger alleviation. With the Living Wage Campaign, JCUA fought for the Living Wage Ordinance which demanded employers with city contracts or city subsidies to pay employees a living wage.\n\nJCUA helped initiate Progress Illinois, a group of Illinois-based organizations that supported a graduated state income tax which would alleviate the tax burden for middle and low-income families, also allowing for additional state revenue to fund education and human service programs.\n\nJCUA developed several Jewish initiatives that worked to organize the American Jewish community around issues of social justice. The Judaism and Urban Poverty (JUP) curriculum was developed to be used in synagogue religious schools in order to teach Jewish youth about the institutional and structural causes of poverty. The JUP curriculum instructed children about the social responsibility, informed by Jewish perspectives, to improve the living conditions of those most in need. JCUA also assisted in the creation of a national organization called AMOS. The mission of AMOS was to make social justice a top concern of American Jewry. The Urban Mitzvah Corp was initiated as a program for Jewish college students over their winter breaks. Program participants rehabilitated housing with Habitat for Humanity and learned about poverty from community experts and local rabbinic leaders. To strengthen relationships between black and white Jews, JCUA created an educational and social program called Shalem (Hebrew for \"Making Whole\"). The program developed strategies to raise public awareness of African American Jews.\n\nMarking the fifth anniversary of the Congress Hotel strike, JCUA mobilized more than 70 members of the Jewish community, including several rabbis, to support the strikers who are seeking workers' rights, such as living wages and basic benefits. JCUA members and participants have continued to picket along with striking workers at the hotel through the seventh anniversary of the strike in 2010.\n\nDemanding political accountability, JCUA along with several other community organizations created a comprehensive agenda to hold local government officials accountable. This campaign is known as \"Developing Government Accountability to the People\" or DGAP. In 2010, DGAP published updated information on the records of Chicago aldermen and asked local citizens to grade their alderman on the DGAP website.\n\nJCUA has worked to ensure broad healthcare access in Illinois. JCUA won an increased 2008 budget for the Cook County Bureau of Health along with the creation of an independent board of directors that would take control of managing Cook County's public health care system, the second largest of such programs in the country. JCUA continued its work to preserve affordable housing in the city of Chicago. The organization assisted residents of housing projects in filing a law suit, claiming that orders for the residents to relocate violated their human rights.\n\nAfter 9/11, in the wake of increased prejudice against Muslims, JCUA created the Jewish-Muslim Community-Building Initiative (JMCBI), a program that brings together members from both faith groups through cultural and educational opportunities. JMCBI mobilizes Jews and Muslims to advocate collaboratively around several social justice campaigns.\n\nTogether with the Community Renewal Society, JCUA convened the Justice Coalition of Greater Chicago (JCGC), which brought together 100 faith-based, civil rights, other types of organizations to battle police and criminal prosecutorial misconduct. In a landmark success, JCUA and JCGC won a moratorium on the death penalty in Illinois, postponing all lethal injections until investigations could conclude why more Illinois executions had been overturned rather than carried out. JCUA initiated Or Tzedek, the Teen Institute for Social Justice. Or Tzedek is an urban-immersion program aimed at strengthening teens' Jewish identities though social justice education and direct activism.\n\nAfter the 2008 Immigration and Customs Enforcement (ICE) raid and the subsequent bankruptcy of Agriprocessors, Inc. kosher meatpacking plant in Postville, Iowa, JCUA and Jewish Community Action of St. Paul, Minnesota were invited to join the Postville Community Benefits Alliance (PCBA). PCBA is a coalition of organizations that is working to ensure that the new owners of the plant (now called Agri Star) continue to distribute kosher meat products and that the company is held accountable to provide employees with safe working conditions and fair treatment\n\nJCUA has been active in advocating for federal comprehensive immigration reform, and has \"often been the public face of the Jewish community's response to the immigration debate in Chicago.\" JCUA supports legislation that would provide illegal immigrants with an avenue to achieve citizenship and advocates a ban on deportations.\n\nJCUA works on several campaigns and projects concurrently. Some of the organization's current activities are outlined below:\n\nJCUA organizes Jewish-Muslim dialogue programs, such as \"Iftar in the Sukkah\" or \"Iftar in the Synagogue\", events that bring local Jews and Muslims together to break the fast of Ramadan and to celebrate a coinciding Jewish holiday. In 2007, when the end of Ramadan overlapped with Sukkot, a Jewish festival marking the traditional time of harvest, about 150 Muslims and Jews congregated in Anshe Sholom B'nai Israel, an Orthodox synagogue in Chicago, to socialize, eat, and experience each other's rituals. The \"Iftar\" programs have continued yearly.\n\nFrom JCUA's inception until today, the organization has focused on preserving affordable housing opportunities for low-income Chicagoans. In reaction to citywide gentrification, JCUA is working with community groups to ensure affordable housing for displaced residents. JCUA provides seed money to real estate developers to encourage development of affordable housing. July 11, 2007. JCUA works with the Coalition for the Protection of Public Housing on the \"Housing is a Human Right\" campaign. The campaign opposes the unjust treatment of Chicago public housing residents by challenging forced evictions.\n\nJCUA runs a teen urban-immersion program called Or Tzedek (Hebrew for \"Light of Justice\"). The week-long program gives high school students the opportunity to engage with urban issues such as affordable housing, health-care, immigration, poverty, and homelessness. Participants learn about these social justice issues through a Jewish lens while meeting and volunteering with community leaders and experts.\n\nIn the aftermath of the Immigration and Customs Enforcement (ICE) raid in May 2008 of the Agriprocessors kosher meatpacking plant, JCUA has helped organize an alliance of community groups and concerned individuals in Postville, Iowa. The group aims to reach a Community Benefits Agreement (CBA) with the new owners of the Agriprocessors plant. Since the 2008 raid, JCUA has raised money and supported the affected Postville community. The goals of the Postville Community Benefits Alliance are to ensure that the meatpacking plant is a responsible corporation and that it treats its workers fairly while providing a safe working environment.\n\nJCUA has been at the forefront of the battle for comprehensive immigration reform. JCUA seeks to be a \"strong Jewish presence\" as it works with other faith communities, supporting the passage of federal legislation that treats immigrants fairly. JCUA, Jewish Community Action (St. Paul, Minn.) and Hebrew Immigrant Aid Society co-convened \"We Were Strangers, Too: the Jewish Campaign for Immigration Reform.\" The campaign aims to pass \"comprehensive immigration reform which should include family reunification, a path to citizenship, enforcement that reflects our values while bolstering national security, legal channels for future immigrants and resources that empower immigrants to integrate into our society\".\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "9264241", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9264241", "title": "Jules Boykoff", "text": "Jules Boykoff\n\nJules Boykoff (born September 11, 1970) is an American academic, author, and former athlete. He is a former professional soccer player. His research focuses on the politics of the Olympic games, social movements, the suppression of dissent, and the role of the mass media in US politics, especially regarding coverage of climate change issues.\n\nAt the college level, Boykoff played two years for the University of Wisconsin before crossing to the University of Portland. After graduating he was drafted in 1993 by indoor soccer team Portland Pride of the National Professional Soccer League (NPSL). He later joined rival NPSL team Milwaukee Wave. In all he played four seasons of indoor professional soccer.\n\nAt the age of 19, he played for the United States men's national under-23 soccer team in the 1990 Toulon Tournament. The United States Soccer Federation entered the 1990, 1991 and 1992 editions in preparation for the 1992 Summer Olympics football tournament.\n\nBoykoff is currently a professor of Politics and Government at Pacific University, Oregon. In 2007 and 2009, students selected him as recipient of the Trombley Award for teaching excellence. He also held a visiting professor position at Whitman College in Walla Walla, Washington during the 2004-2005 school year.\n\nBoykoff has been called “one of the biggest names in international Olympic Games academia.\" He is the author of \"Power Games: A Political History of the Olympics\" (Verso, 2016), \"Activism and the Olympics: Dissent at the Games in Vancouver and London\" (Rutgers University Press, 2014) and \"Celebration Capitalism and the Olympic Games\" (Routledge, 2013). He has written op-eds on Olympic politics for the \"Guardian,\" the \"New York Times\", the \"San Francisco Chronicle\", and elsewhere. He has also appeared on the \"BBC\", \"Democracy Now!\", and NHK TV in Japan to discuss the Olympic Games.\n\nBoykoff has appeared on various radio shows, including \"Democracy Now!\", \"Alternative Radio\", \"Living on Earth\", \"CounterSpin\", \"The Thom Hartmann Program\", and \"Media Matters with Bob McChesney\" to discuss the intersection of politics, the media, and global warming. He is the author of two books on the suppression of dissent: \"Beyond Bullets: The Suppression of Dissent in the United States\" (AK Press, 2007 ) and \"The Suppression of Dissent: How the State and Mass Media Squelch USAmerican Social Movements\" (Routledge, 2006 ).\n\nBoykoff is also a published poet. He is the author of \"Once upon a Neoliberal Rocket Badge\" (Edge Books, 2006) and his poem “Commandment #8” was named 2006 Sexiest Poem of the Year by Philadelphia poet CA Conrad. With his longtime partner/wife Kaia Sand, who is also a poet, Boykoff runs The Tangent Reading Series in Portland, Oregon.\n\nCommon course topics taught by Boykoff include US politics, the politics of surveillance, mass-media and politics, and the politics of literature and poetry. In November 2006, he spoke at the United Nations Climate Change Conference in Nairobi, Kenya, \"COP 12\". In \"An Inconvenient Truth\", Al Gore mentioned work Boykoff co-authored with his brother Maxwell Boykoff (Oxford University, Environmental Change Institute) on US media coverage of global warming.\n\nBoykoff is also co-editor of \"The Tangent\", a politics and art zine.\n\nJules is married to the poet Kaia Sand. They live in Portland, Oregon with their daughter Jessi Wahnetah.\n\nBooks\n\n\nRecent Scholarly Publications\n\n\n"}
{"id": "17049", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17049", "title": "Khmer Rouge", "text": "Khmer Rouge\n\nThe Khmer Rouge (, , Red Khmers; \"Khmer Kror-Horm\") was the name popularly given to the followers of the Communist Party of Kampuchea and by extension to the regime through which the CPK ruled in Cambodia between 1975 and 1979. The name had originally been used in the 1950s by Norodom Sihanouk as a blanket term for the Cambodian left.\n\nThe Khmer Rouge army was slowly built up in the jungles of Eastern Cambodia during the late 1960s, supported by the North Vietnamese army, the Viet Cong and the Pathet Lao. The Khmer Rouge won the Cambodian Civil War when in 1975 they captured the Cambodian capital and overthrew the government of the Khmer Republic. Following their victory, the Khmer Rouge led by Pol Pot, Nuon Chea, Ieng Sary, Son Sen and Khieu Samphan renamed the country as Democratic Kampuchea and immediately set about forcibly evacuating the country's major cities. The regime would go on to murder hundreds of thousands of their perceived political opponents. Ultimately, the Cambodian genocide would lead to the deaths of 1.5 to 3 million people, around 25% of Cambodia's population.\n\nThe Khmer Rouge regime was highly autocratic, xenophobic, paranoid and repressive. The genocide was in part the result of the regime's social engineering policies. Its attempts at agricultural reform through collectivisation led to widespread famine while its insistence on absolute self-sufficiency, even in the supply of medicine, led to the death of many thousands from treatable diseases such as malaria. The Khmer Rouge's racist emphasis on national purity included several genocides of Cambodian minorities. Arbitrary executions and torture were carried out by its cadres against perceived subversive elements, or during genocidal purges of its own ranks between 1975 and 1978.\n\nThe regime was removed from power in 1979 when Vietnam invaded Cambodia and quickly destroyed most of the Khmer Rouge's army. The Khmer Rouge then fled to Thailand whose government saw them as a buffer force against the Communist Vietnamese. The Khmer Rouge continued to fight the Vietnamese and the new People's Republic of Kampuchea government during the Cambodian–Vietnamese War which ended in 1989. \nThe Cambodian governments-in-exile (including the Khmer Rouge) held onto Cambodia's United Nations seat (with considerable international support) until 1993, when the monarchy was restored and the country's name was changed to the Kingdom of Cambodia. A year later, thousands of Khmer Rouge guerrillas surrendered themselves in a government amnesty.\n\nIn 1996, a new political party called the Democratic National Union Movement was formed by Ieng Sary, who was granted amnesty for his role as the deputy leader of the Khmer Rouge. The organization was largely dissolved by the mid-1990s and finally surrendered completely in 1999. In 2014, two Khmer Rouge leaders, Nuon Chea and Khieu Samphan, were jailed for life by a United Nations-backed court, which found them guilty of crimes against humanity for their roles in the Khmer Rouge's genocidal campaign. The Khmer Rouge dissolved sometime in December 1999.\n\nThe term \"Khmers rouges\", French for \"Red Khmers\", was coined by Cambodian head of state Norodom Sihanouk and later adopted by English speakers (in the form of the corrupted version Khmer Rouge). It was used to refer to a succession of communist parties in Cambodia which evolved into the Communist Party of Kampuchea (CPK) and later the Party of Democratic Kampuchea. Its military was known successively as the Kampuchean Revolutionary Army and the National Army of Democratic Kampuchea.\n\nIn power, the movement's ideology was shaped by a power struggle during 1976 in which the so-called Party Centre led by Pol Pot defeated other regional elements of the leadership. The Party Centre's ideology combined elements of Marxism with a strongly xenophobic form of Khmer nationalism. Due in part to secrecy and changes in the regime's presentation of itself, academic interpretations of its political position within Marxist thought vary widely, ranging from interpreting it as the \"purest\" Marxist-Leninist movement to characterising it as an anti-Marxist \"peasant revolution\". \n\nIts leaders and theorists, most of whom had been exposed to the heavily Stalinist outlook of the French Communist Party during the 1950s, developed a distinctive and eclectic \"post-Leninist\" ideology that drew on elements of Stalinism, Maoism and the postcolonial theory of Frantz Fanon. In the early 1970s, the Khmer Rouge looked to the model of Enver Hoxha's Albania, which they assessed as the then most advanced communist state. Many of the regime's characteristics, such as its focus on the rural peasantry rather than the urban proletariat as the bulwark of revolution, its emphasis on Great Leap Forward-type initiatives, its desire to abolish personal interest in human behaviour, its promotion of communal living and eating and its focus on perceived common sense over technical knowledge appear to have been heavily influenced by Maoist ideology in particular. However, the Khmer Rouge displayed these characteristics in a more extreme form. \n\nWhile the CPK described itself as the \"number 1 Communist state\" once it was in power, some communist regimes such as Vietnam saw it as a Maoist deviation from orthodox Marxism. The Maoist and Khmer Rouge belief that human willpower could overcome material and historical conditions was strongly at odds with mainstream Marxism, which emphasised materialism and the idea of history as inevitable progression.\n\nKhmer ultranationalism was a defining characteristic of the regime, which combined an idealization of the Angkor Empire (802–1431) with an existential fear for the existence of the Cambodian state, which had historically been liquidated during periods of Vietnamese and Siamese intervention. The spillover of Vietnamese fighters from the Vietnam War further aggravated anti-Vietnamese sentiments as the 1960s went on: the Khmer Republic under Lon Nol, overthrown by the Khmer Rouge, had itself promoted Mon-Khmer nationalism and was responsible for several anti-Vietnamese pogroms during the 1970s. Some historians such as Ben Kiernan have stated that the importance the regime gave to race overshadowed its conceptions of class.\n\nOnce in power, the Khmer Rouge explicitly targeted the Chinese, the Vietnamese, the Cham minority and even their partially Khmer offspring. The same attitude extended to the party's own ranks as senior CPK figures of non-Khmer ethnicity were removed from the leadership despite extensive revolutionary experience and were often killed.\n\nKhmer Rouge economic policy, based largely on the plans of Khieu Samphan, focused on the achievement of national self-reliance through an initial phase of agricultural collectivism. This would then be used as a route to achieve rapid social transformation and industrial and technological development without assistance from foreign powers, a process which the party characterised as a \"Super Great Leap Forward\". The strong emphasis on autarky in Khmer Rouge planning was probably influenced by the early writing of Samir Amin, who was cited in Khieu Samphan's PhD thesis. \n\nThe party's General Secretary Pol Pot strongly influenced the propagation of this policy. He was reportedly impressed with the self-sufficient manner in which the mountain tribes of Cambodia lived, which the party interpreted as a form of primitive communism. Khmer Rouge theory developed the concept that the nation should take \"agriculture as the basic factor and use the fruits of agriculture to build industry\". Pol Pot's belief was that collectivisation of agriculture was capable of \"[creating] a complete Communist society without wasting time on the intermediate steps\" as the Khmer Rouge said to China in 1975.<ref name=\"Fletcher, Dan. A BRIEF HISTORY OF The Khmer Rouge. TIMEWORLD. 2/17/2009: n. page. Web. Nov 1, 2011.\"> </ref> Society was accordingly classified into peasant \"base people\", who would be the bulwark of the transformation; and urban \"new people\", who were to be reeducated or liquidated. The focus of the Khmer Rouge leadership on the peasantry as the base of the revolution was according to Michael Vickery a product of their status as \"petty-bourgeois radicals overcome by peasantist romanticism\". The opposition of the peasantry and the urban population in Khmer Rouge ideology was heightened by the structure of the Cambodian rural economy, where small farmers and peasants had historically suffered through indebtedness to urban money-lenders rather than through oppression by landlords. The policy of evacuating major towns as well as providing a reserve of easily exploitable agricultural labour was likely viewed positively by the Khmer Rouge's peasant supporters as removal of the source of their debt.\n\nThe Khmer Rouge officially renounced communism in 1981 following the Cambodian–Vietnamese War in which they saw support from the United States.\n\nDemocratic Kampuchea is sometimes described as an atheist state, though this is not strictly accurate as its constitution in fact stated that everyone had freedom of religion, or not to hold a religion, although it specified that what it termed \"reactionary religion\" would not be permitted. The relationship of the CPK to the majority Cambodian Theravada Buddhism was complex as several key figures in its history such as Tou Samouth and Ta Mok were former monks. Though there was extreme harassment of Buddhist institutions, there was a tendency for the CPK regime to internalise and reconfigure the symbolism and language of Cambodian Buddhism so that many revolutionary slogans mimicked the formulae learned by young monks during their training. The repression of Islam practised by the country's Cham minority, and adherents of Christianity, was extensive. Islamic religious leaders were executed, although some Cham Muslims appear to have been told they could continue devotions in private as long as it could not interfere with work quotas. Nevertheless, Mat Ly, a Cham who served as the deputy minister of agriculture under the People's Republic of Kampuchea, stated that Khmer Rouge troops had perpetrated a number of massacres in Cham villages in the Central and Eastern zones where the residents had refused to give up Islamic customs.\n\nBuddhist laity seem not to have been singled out for persecution although traditional belief in the tutelary spirits or \"neak ta\", rapidly eroded as people were forcibly moved from their home areas. The position with Buddhist monks was more complicated: as with Islam many religious leaders were killed whereas many ordinary monks were sent to remote monasteries where they were subjected to hard physical labour. The same division between rural and urban population was seen in the regime's treatment of monks as those from urban monasteries were classified as \"new monks\" and sent to rural areas to live alongside \"base monks\" of peasant background, who were classified as \"proper and revolutionary\". Monks were not ordered to defrock until as late as 1977 in Kratié Province and many monks found that as the agricultural work they were allocated to involved regular breaches of monastic rules, they reverted to the status of lay peasantry. While there is evidence of widespread vandalism of Buddhist monasteries, many more than were initially supposed survived the Khmer Rouge years in fair condition as did most Khmer historical monuments and it is possible that stories of their near total destruction were propaganda issued by the successor People's Republic of Kampuchea. Nevertheless, it has been estimated that nearly 25,000 Buddhist monks were killed by the regime. \n\nWhile François Ponchaud stated that Christians were invariably taken away and killed with the accusation of having links with the CIA, at least some cadres appear to have regarded it as preferable to the \"feudal\" class-based Buddhism. Nevertheless, it remained deeply suspect to the regime thanks to its close links to the French colonial power as Phnom Penh cathedral was razed along with other places of worship.\nThe history of the communist movement in Cambodia can be divided into six phases, namely the emergence before World War II of the Indochinese Communist Party (ICP), whose members were almost exclusively Vietnamese; the 10-year struggle for independence from the French, when a separate Cambodian communist party, the Kampuchean (or Khmer) People's Revolutionary Party (KPRP), was established under Vietnamese auspices; the period following the Second Party Congress of the KPRP in 1960, when Saloth Sar (Pol Pot after 1976) and other future Khmer Rouge leaders gained control of its apparatus; the revolutionary struggle from the initiation of the Khmer Rouge insurgency in 1967–1968 to the fall of the Lon Nol government in April 1975; the Democratic Kampuchea regime from April 1975 to January 1979; and the period following the Third Party Congress of the KPRP in January 1979, when Hanoi effectively assumed control over Cambodia's government and communist party.\n\nIn 1930, Ho Chi Minh founded the Communist Party of Vietnam by unifying three smaller communist movements that had emerged in northern, central and southern Vietnam during the late 1920s. Almost immediately, the party was renamed the Indochinese Communist Party, ostensibly so it could include revolutionaries from Cambodia and Laos. Almost without exception, all of the earliest party members were Vietnamese. By the end of World War II, a handful of Cambodians had joined its ranks, but their influence on the Indochinese communist movement as well as their influence on developments within Cambodia was negligible.\n\nViet Minh units occasionally made forays into Cambodian bases during their war against the French and in conjunction with the leftist government that ruled Thailand until 1947 the Viet Minh encouraged the formation of armed, left-wing Khmer Issarak bands. On April 17, 1950 (25 years to the day before the Khmer Rouge captured Phnom Penh), the first nationwide congress of the Khmer Issarak groups convened and the United Issarak Front was established. Its leader was Son Ngoc Minh and a third of its leadership consisted of members of the ICP. According to the historian David P. Chandler, the leftist Issarak groups aided by the Viet Minh occupied a sixth of Cambodia's territory by 1952 and on the eve of the Geneva Conference controlled as much as one half of the country.\n\nIn 1951, the ICP was reorganized into three national units—the Vietnam Workers' Party (VWP), the Lao Issara and the Kampuchean (or Khmer) People's Revolutionary Party (KPRP). According to a document issued after the reorganization, the VWP would continue to \"supervise\" the smaller Laotian and Cambodian movements. Most KPRP leaders and rank-and-file seem to have been either Khmer Krom, or ethnic Vietnamese living in Cambodia. The party's appeal to indigenous Khmers appears to have been minimal.\n\nAccording to Democratic Kampuchea's perspective of party history, the Viet Minh's failure to negotiate a political role for the KPRP at the 1954 Geneva Conference represented a betrayal of the Cambodian movement, which still controlled large areas of the countryside and which commanded at least 5,000 armed men. Following the conference, about 1,000 members of the KPRP, including Son Ngoc Minh, made a Long March into North Vietnam, where they remained in exile. In late 1954, those who stayed in Cambodia founded a legal political party, the Pracheachon Party, which participated in the 1955 and the 1958 National Assembly elections. In the September 1955 election, it won about four percent of the vote, but did not secure a seat in the legislature. Members of the Pracheachon were subject to constant harassment and to arrests because the party remained outside Sihanouk's political organization, Sangkum. Government attacks prevented it from participating in the 1962 election and drove it underground. Sihanouk habitually labelled local leftists the Khmer Rouge, a term that later came to signify the party and the state headed by Pol Pot, Ieng Sary, Khieu Samphan and their associates.\n\nDuring the mid-1950s, KPRP factions, the \"urban committee\" (headed by Tou Samouth) and the \"rural committee\" (headed by Sieu Heng), emerged. In very general terms, these groups espoused divergent revolutionary lines. The prevalent \"urban\" line endorsed by North Vietnam recognized that Sihanouk by virtue of his success in winning independence from the French was a genuine national leader whose neutralism and deep distrust of the United States made him a valuable asset in Hanoi's struggle to \"liberate\" South Vietnam. Advocates of this line hoped that the prince could be persuaded to distance himself from the right-wing and to adopt leftist policies. The other line, supported for the most part by rural cadres who were familiar with the harsh realities of the countryside, advocated an immediate struggle to overthrow the \"feudalist\" Sihanouk.\n\nDuring the 1950s, Khmer students in Paris organized their own communist movement which had little, if any, connection to the hard-pressed party in their homeland. From their ranks came the men and women who returned home and took command of the party apparatus during the 1960s, led an effective insurgency against Lon Nol from 1968 until 1975 and established the regime of Democratic Kampuchea.\n\nPol Pot, who rose to the leadership of the communist movement in the 1960s, was born in 1928 (some sources say 1925) in Kampong Thum Province, northeast of Phnom Penh. He attended a technical high school in the capital and then went to Paris in 1949 to study radio electronics (other sources say he attended a school for printers and typesetters and also studied civil engineering). Described by one source as a \"determined, rather plodding organizer\", he failed to obtain a degree, but according to Jesuit priest Father François Ponchaud he acquired a taste for the classics of French literature as well as an interest in the writings of Karl Marx.\nAnother member of the Paris student group was Ieng Sary, a Chinese-Khmer born in 1925 in South Vietnam. He attended the elite Lycée Sisowath in Phnom Penh before beginning courses in commerce and politics at the Paris Institute of Political Science (more widely known as Sciences Po) in France. Khieu Samphan was born in 1931 and specialized in economics and politics during his time in Paris. Hou Yuon (born in 1930) studied economics and law, Son Sen (born in 1930) studied education and literature and Hu Nim (born in 1932) studied law.\n\nTwo members of the group, Khieu Samphan and Hou Yuon, earned doctorates from the University of Paris while Hu Nim obtained his degree from the University of Phnom Penh in 1965. Most came from landowner or civil servant families. Pol Pot and Hou Yuon may have been related to the royal family as an older sister of Pol Pot had been a concubine at the court of King Monivong. Pol Pot and Ieng Sary married Khieu Ponnary and Khieu Thirith, also known as Ieng Thirith), purportedly relatives of Khieu Samphan. These two well-educated women also played a central role in the regime of Democratic Kampuchea.\n\nA number turned to orthodox Marxism–Leninism. At some time between 1949 and 1951, Pol Pot and Ieng Sary joined the French Communist Party. In 1951, the two men went to East Berlin to participate in a youth festival. This experience is considered to have been a turning point in their ideological development. Meeting with Khmers who were fighting with the Viet Minh (and whom they subsequently judged to be too subservient to the Vietnamese), they became convinced that only a tightly disciplined party organization and a readiness for armed struggle could achieve revolution. They transformed the Khmer Students Association (KSA), to which most of the 200 or so Khmer students in Paris belonged, into an organization for nationalist and leftist ideas.\n\nInside the KSA and its successor organizations, there was a secret organization known as the Cercle Marxiste (Marxist circle). The organization was composed of cells of three to six members with most members knowing nothing about the overall structure of the organization. In 1952, Pol Pot, Hou Yuon, Ieng Sary and other leftists gained notoriety by sending an open letter to Sihanouk calling him the \"strangler of infant democracy\". A year later, the French authorities closed down the KSA, but Hou Yuon and Khieu Samphan helped to establish in 1956 a new group, the Khmer Students Union. Inside, the group was still run by the Cercle Marxiste.\n\nThe doctoral dissertations written by Hou Yuon and Khieu Samphan express basic themes that were later to become the cornerstones of the policy adopted by Democratic Kampuchea. The central role of the peasants in national development was espoused by Hou Yuon in his 1955 thesis, \"The Cambodian Peasants and Their Prospects for Modernization\", which challenged the conventional view that urbanization and industrialization are necessary precursors of development.\n\nThe major argument in Khieu Samphan's 1959 thesis, \"Cambodia's Economy and Industrial Development\", was that the country had to become self-reliant and end its economic dependency on the developed world. In its general contours, Samphan's work reflected the influence of a branch of the \"dependency theory\" school, which blamed lack of development in the Third World on the economic domination of the industrialized nations.\n\nAfter returning to Cambodia in 1953, Pol Pot threw himself into party work. At first, he went to join with forces allied to the Viet Minh operating in the rural areas of Kampong Cham Province (Kompong Cham). After the end of the war, he moved to Phnom Penh under Tou Samouth's \"urban committee\", where he became an important point of contact between above-ground parties of the left and the underground secret communist movement.\n\nHis comrades Ieng Sary and Hou Yuon became teachers at a new private high school, the Lycée Kambuboth, which Hou Yuon helped to establish. Khieu Samphan returned from Paris in 1959, taught as a member of the law faculty of the University of Phnom Penh and started a left-wing French-language publication, \"L'Observateur\". The paper soon acquired a reputation in Phnom Penh's small academic circle. The following year, the government closed the paper and Sihanouk's police publicly humiliated Samphan by beating, undressing and photographing him in public—as Shawcross notes, \"not the sort of humiliation that men forgive or forget\".\n\nYet the experience did not prevent Samphan from advocating cooperation with Sihanouk in order to promote a united front against United States activities in South Vietnam. Khieu Samphan, Hou Yuon and Hu Nim were forced to \"work through the system\" by joining the Sangkum and by accepting posts in the prince's government.\n\nIn late September 1960, twenty-one leaders of the KPRP held a secret congress in a vacant room of the Phnom Penh railroad station. This pivotal event remains shrouded in mystery because its outcome has become an object of contention (and considerable historical rewriting) between pro-Vietnamese and anti-Vietnamese Khmer communist factions.\n\nThe question of cooperation with, or resistance to, Sihanouk was thoroughly discussed. Tou Samouth, who advocated a policy of cooperation, was elected general secretary of the KPRP that was renamed the Workers' Party of Kampuchea (WPK). His ally Nuon Chea, also known as Long Reth, became deputy general secretary, but Pol Pot and Ieng Sary were named to the Political Bureau to occupy the third and the fifth highest positions in the renamed party's hierarchy. The name change is significant. By calling itself a workers' party, the Cambodian movement claimed equal status with the Vietnam Workers' Party. The pro-Vietnamese regime of the People's Republic of Kampuchea (PRK) implied in the 1980s that the September 1960 meeting was nothing more than the second congress of the KPRP.\n\nOn July 20, 1962, Tou Samouth was murdered by the Cambodian government. At the WPK's second congress in February 1963, Pol Pot was chosen to succeed Tou Samouth as the party's general secretary. Samouth's allies Nuon Chea and Keo Meas were removed from the Central Committee and replaced by Son Sen and Vorn Vet. From then on, Pol Pot and loyal comrades from his Paris student days controlled the party centre, edging out older veterans whom they considered excessively pro-Vietnamese.\n\nIn July 1963, Pol Pot and most of the central committee left Phnom Penh to establish an insurgent base in Ratanakiri Province in the northeast. Pol Pot had shortly before been put on a list of 34 leftists who were summoned by Sihanouk to join the government and sign statements saying Sihanouk was the only possible leader for the country. Pol Pot and Chou Chet were the only people on the list who escaped. All the others agreed to cooperate with the government and were afterward under 24-hour watch by the police.\n\nThe region where Pol Pot and the others moved to was inhabited by tribal minorities, the Khmer Loeu, whose rough treatment (including resettlement and forced assimilation) at the hands of the central government made them willing recruits for a guerrilla struggle. In 1965, Pol Pot made a visit of several months to North Vietnam and China.\n\nPol Pot received some training in China, which had enhanced his prestige when he returned to the WPK's \"liberated areas\". Despite friendly relations between Norodom Sihanouk and the Chinese, the latter kept Pol Pot's visit a secret from Sihanouk. In September 1966, the party changed its name to the Communist Party of Kampuchea (CPK).\n\nThe change in the name of the party was a closely guarded secret. Lower ranking members of the party and even the Vietnamese were not told of it and neither was the membership until many years later. The party leadership endorsed armed struggle against the government, then led by Sihanouk. In 1967, several small-scale attempts at insurgency were made by the CPK but they had little success.\n\nIn 1968, the Khmer Rouge was officially formed and its forces launched a national insurgency across Cambodia. Though North Vietnam had not been informed of the decision, its forces provided shelter and weapons to the Khmer Rouge after the insurgency started. Vietnamese support for the insurgency made it impossible for the Cambodian military to effectively counter it. For the next two years, the insurgency grew as Sihanouk did very little to stop it. As the insurgency grew stronger, the party finally openly declared itself to be the Communist Party of Kampuchea.\n\nThe political appeal of the Khmer Rouge was increased as a result of the situation created by the removal of Sihanouk as head of state in 1970. Premier Lon Nol, with the support of the National Assembly, deposed Sihanouk. Sihanouk, in exile in Beijing, made an alliance with the Khmer Rouge and became the nominal head of a Khmer Rouge–dominated government-in-exile (known by its French acronym GRUNK) backed by China. The Nixon administration, although thoroughly aware of the weakness of Lon Nol's forces and loath to commit American military force to the new conflict in any form other than air power, announced its support for the newly proclaimed Khmer Republic.\n\nOn 29 March 1970, the North Vietnamese launched an offensive against the Cambodian army. Documents uncovered from the Soviet archives revealed that the invasion was launched at the explicit request of the Khmer Rouge following negotiations with Nuon Chea. A force of North Vietnamese quickly overran large parts of eastern Cambodia reaching to within of Phnom Penh before being pushed back. By June, three months after the removal of Sihanouk, they had swept government forces from the entire northeastern third of the country. After defeating those forces, the North Vietnamese turned the newly won territories over to the local insurgents. The Khmer Rouge also established \"liberated\" areas in the south and the southwestern parts of the country, where they operated independently of the North Vietnamese.\n\nAfter Sihanouk showed his support for the Khmer Rouge by visiting them in the field, their ranks swelled from 6,000 to 50,000 fighters. Many of the new recruits for the Khmer Rouge were apolitical peasants who fought in support of the King, not for communism, of which they had little understanding. Sihanouk's popular support in rural Cambodia allowed the Khmer Rouge to extend its power and influence to the point that by 1973 it exercised \"de facto\" control over the majority of Cambodian territory, although only a minority of its population. Many people in Cambodia who helped the Khmer Rouge against the Lon Nol government thought they were fighting for the restoration of Sihanouk.\n\nBy 1975, with the Lon Nol government running out of ammunition, it was clear that it was only a matter of time before the government would collapse. On 17 April 1975, the Khmer Rouge captured Phnom Penh.\n\nThe relationship between the massive carpet bombing of Cambodia by the United States and the growth of the Khmer Rouge, in terms of recruitment and popular support, has been a matter of interest to historians. Some historians have cited the United States intervention and bombing campaign (spanning 1965–1973) as a significant factor leading to increased support of the Khmer Rouge among the Cambodian peasantry. However, Pol Pot biographer David P. Chandler argues that the bombing \"had the effect the Americans wanted – it broke the Communist encirclement of Phnom Penh\". Peter Rodman and Eric Lind claimed that the United States intervention saved the Lon Nol regime from collapse in 1970 and 1973. Craig Etcheson agreed that it was \"untenable\" to assert that United States intervention caused the Khmer Rouge victory while acknowledging that it may have played a small role in boosting recruitment for the insurgents. However, William Shawcross wrote that the United States bombing and ground incursion plunged Cambodia into the chaos that Sihanouk had worked for years to avoid.\n\nThe North Vietnamese invasion of Cambodia, launched at the request of the Khmer Rouge, has also been cited as a major factor in their eventual victory, including by Shawcross. Communist Vietnam later admitted that it played \"a decisive role\" in their seizure of power. By 1973, Vietnamese support of the Khmer Rouge had largely disappeared. China \"armed and trained\" the Khmer Rouge both during the civil war and the years afterward.\n\nThe United Nations sided with the Coalition Government of Democratic Kampuchea, which included the Khmer Rouge, against the Vietnamese-backed People's Republic of Kampuchea.\n\nThe governing structure of Democratic Kampuchea was split between the state presidium headed by Khieu Samphan, the cabinet led by Pol Pot as prime minister and the party's own Politburo and Central Committee. All were complicated by a number of political factions existing in 1975. The leadership of the Party Centre, the faction headed by Pol Pot, remained largely unchanged from the early 1960s to the mid-1990s. Its leaders were mostly from middle-class families and had been educated at French universities. The second significant faction was made up of men active in the pre-1960 party and who therefore had stronger Vietnamese links. However, government documents show that there were several major shifts in power between factions during the period in which the regime was in control. \n\nIn 1975–1976, there were several powerful zonal Khmer Rouge leaders who maintained their own armies and who came from a different party background to the Pol Pot clique, particularly So Phim and Nhim Ros, both vice presidents of the state presidium and members of the Politburo and Central Committee respectively. There was a possible military coup attempt in May 1976, led by a senior Eastern Zone cadre called Chan Chakrey, who had been made deputy secretary of the army's General Staff. A reorganisation of September 1976, which demoted Pol Pot in the state presidium, was later presented by the Party Centre as an attempted pro-Vietnamese coup. Over the next two years, So Phim, Nhim Ros, Vorn Vet and many other figures associated with the pre-1960 party would be arrested and executed. So Phim's execution would be followed by that of the majority of the cadres and much of the population of the Eastern Zone that he had controlled. The Party Centre, lacking much in the way of their own military resources, accomplished their seizure of power by forming an alliance with Southwestern Zone leader Ta Mok and Pok, head of the North Zone's troops. Both men were of a purely peasant background and were therefore natural allies of the strongly peasantist ideology of the Pol Pot faction.\n\nThe Standing Committee of the Khmer Rouge's Central Committee during its period of power consisted of the following:\n\nIn power, the Khmer Rouge carried out a radical program that included isolating the country from all foreign influences, closing schools, hospitals and some factories, abolishing banking, finance and currency, and collectivising agriculture. Khmer Rouge theorists, developing the ideas of Hou Yuon and Khieu Samphan, believed that an initial period of self-imposed economic isolation and national self-sufficiency would stimulate the rebirth of the crafts and the country's latent industrial capability.\n\nIn Phnom Penh and other cities, the Khmer Rouge told residents that they would be moved only about \"two or three kilometers\" outside the city and would return in \"two or three days\". Some witnesses said they were told that the evacuation was because of the \"threat of American bombing\" and that they did not have to lock their houses since the Khmer Rouge would \"take care of everything\" until they returned. People who refused to evacuate would have their homes burned to the ground and would be killed immediately. The evacuees were sent on long marches to the countryside, which killed thousands of children, elderly people and sick people. These were not the first evacuations of civilian populations by the Khmer Rouge as similar evacuations of populations without possessions had been occurring on a smaller scale since the early 1970s.\n\nOn arrival at the villages to which they had been assigned, evacuees were required to write brief autobiographical essays. The essay's content, particularly with regard to the subject's activity during the Khmer Republic regime, was used to determine their fate. Military officers and those occupying elite professional roles were usually sent for reeducation, which in practice meant immediate execution or confinement in a labour camp. Those with specialist technical skills often found themselves sent back to cities to restart production in factories interrupted by the takeover. The remaining displaced urban population (\"new people\"), as part of the regime's drive to increase food production were placed into agricultural communes alongside the peasant \"base people\" or \"old people\". The latter's holdings were collectivised. Cambodians were expected to produce three tons of rice per hectare as before the Khmer Rouge era the average was only one ton per hectare. The total lack of agricultural knowledge on the part of the former city dwellers made famine inevitable. The rural peasantry were often unsympathetic, or were too frightened to assist them. Such acts as picking wild fruit or berries were seen as \"private enterprise\" and punished by death. Labourers were forced to work long shifts without adequate rest or food, resulting in a large number of deaths through exhaustion, illness and starvation. Workers would be executed for attempting to escape from the communes, for breaching minor rules, or after being denounced by colleagues. If caught, offenders were taken quietly off to a distant forest or field after sunset and killed. Unwilling to import Western medicines, the regime turned to traditional medicine instead and placed medical care in the hands of cadres given only rudimentary training. Because of the famine, forced labour and the lack of access to appropriate services there was a high number of human losses.\n\nKhmer Rouge economic policies took a similarly extreme course. Trade was officially restricted only to bartering between communes, a policy which the regime developed in order to enforce self-reliance. Banks were raided and all currency and records were destroyed by fire thus eliminating any claim to funds. After 1976, the regime reinstated discussion of export in the period after the disastrous effects of its planning began to become apparent.\n\nCommercial fishing was said to have been banned by the Khmer Rouge in 1976.\n\nThe regulations made by the Angkar also had effects on the traditional Cambodian family unit. The regime was primarily interested in increasing the young population and one of the strictest regulations prohibited sex outside marriage, which was punishable by execution. In this as in some other respects, the Khmer Rouge followed a morality based on an idealised conception of the attitudes of prewar rural Cambodia. Marriage required permission from the authorities and the Khmer Rouge were strict in only giving permission for people of the same class and level of education to marry. Such rules were applied even more strictly to party cadres. While some refugees spoke of families being deliberately broken up, this appears to have referred mainly to the traditional Cambodian extended family unit, which the regime actively sought to destroy in favour of small nuclear units of parents and children.\n\nThe regime promoted arranged marriages, particularly between party cadres. While some academics such as Michael Vickery have noted that arranged marriages were also feature of rural Cambodia prior to 1975, those conducted by the Khmer Rouge regime often involved people unfamiliar to each other. As well as reflecting the Khmer Rouge obsession with production and reproduction, such marriages were designed to increase people's dependency on the regime by undermining existing family and other loyalties.\n\nIt is often concluded that the Khmer Rouge regime promoted illiteracy. This statement is not completely incorrect, but quite inaccurate. The Khmer Rouge wanted to \"eliminate all traces of Cambodia's imperialist past\", and previous culture was one of those. The Khmer Rouge didn't want their people to be completely ignorant, and primary education was provided. Nevertheless, their policies dramatically reduced the cultural inflow as well as Cambodian knowledge and creativity. Their goal was to gain full control on all the information that people received, and spread revolutionary culture among the masses.\n\nIt is also true that education in Democratic Kampuchea came to a \"virtual standstill\". Irrespective of central policies, most local cadres considered higher education useless and were suspicious of those who had received it. The regime abolished all literary schooling above primary grades, ostensibly focusing on basic literacy instead. In practice, primary schools in many areas were not set up due to the extreme disruption caused by the regime takeover and most ordinary people, especially \"new people\", felt their children were taught nothing worthwhile in those that did exist. The exception was the Eastern Zone, run until 1976 by cadres who were closely connected with Vietnam rather than the Party Centre, where a more organised system seems to have existed as children were taught by teachers drawn from the \"base people\" from a limited number of official textbooks and were given extra rations.\n\nBeyond primary education there were a number of technical courses taught in factories to students drawn from the favoured \"base people\". However, there was a general reluctance to get involved with further education in Democratic Kampuchea as in some districts cadres were known to kill people who boasted of educational accomplishments and it was considered bad form to allude to any special technical training. Based on a speech made in 1978, it appears that Pol Pot may have ultimately envisaged that students from the approved poor peasant background could go from illiteracy to being trained engineers within ten years based on targeted study and a large proportion of practical work.\n\nThe Khmer language has a complex system of usages to define speakers' rank and social status. During the rule of the Khmer Rouge, these usages were abolished. People were encouraged to call each other \"friend\" (មិត្ត; \"mitt\") and to avoid traditional signs of deference such as bowing or folding the hands in salutation, known as \"samphea\".\n\nLanguage was also transformed in other ways. The Khmer Rouge invented new terms. In keeping with the regime's theories on Khmer identity, the majority of new words were coined with reference to Pali or Sanskrit terms while Chinese and Vietnamese-language borrowings were discouraged. People were told to \"forge\" (\"lot dam\") a new revolutionary character, that they were the \"instruments\" (ឧបករណ៍; \"opokar\") of the ruling body known as Angkar (អង្គការ, The Organization) and that nostalgia for pre-revolutionary times (\"chheu satek arom\", or \"memory sickness\") could result in execution. Rural terms like \"Mae\" (ម៉ែ; mother) replaced urban terms like \"Mak\" (ម៉ាក់; mother).\n\nMany Cambodians crossed the border into Thailand to seek asylum. From there, they were transported to refugee camps such as Sa Kaeo or Khao-I-Dang, the only camp allowing resettlement in countries such as the United States, France, Canada and Australia. In some refugee camps, such as Site 8, Phnom Chat, or Ta Prik, the Khmer Rouge cadres controlled food distribution and restricted the activities of international aid agencies.\n\nThe Khmer Rouge government arrested, tortured and eventually executed anyone suspected of belonging to several categories of supposed \"enemies\", including the following:\n\nThe Khmer Rouge established over 150 prisons for political opponents, of which Tuol Sleng, a prison holding purged Party cadres and their families, is the best known. According to Ben Kiernan, \"all but seven of the twenty thousand Tuol Sleng prisoners\" were executed. Examples of the Khmer Rouge torture methods can be seen at the Tuol Sleng Genocide Museum. The museum occupies the former grounds of a high school turned prison camp that was operated by Khang Khek Ieu, more commonly known as Comrade Duch, together with his subordinates Mam Nai and Tang Sin Hean. The buildings of Tuol Sleng have been preserved as they were left when the Khmer Rouge were driven out in 1979. Several of the rooms are now lined with thousands of black-and-white photographs of prisoners that were taken by the Khmer Rouge.\n\nOn 7 August 2014, when announcing convictions and handing down life sentences for two former Khmer Rouge leaders, Cambodian judge Nil Nonn said there were evidences of \"a widespread and systematic attack against the civilian population of Cambodia\". He said the leaders, Nuon Chea, the regime's chief ideologue and former deputy to late leader Pol Pot and Khieu Samphan, the former head of state, together in a \"joint criminal enterprise\" were involved in murder, extermination, political persecution and other inhumane acts related to the mass eviction of city-dwellers, and executions of enemy soldiers.\n\nModern research has located 20,000 mass graves from the Khmer Rouge era all over Cambodia. Various studies have estimated the death toll at between 740,000 and 3,000,000, most commonly between 1.4 million and 2.2 million, with perhaps half of those deaths being due to executions, and the rest from starvation and disease.\n\nThe Cambodian Genocide Program at Yale University estimates the number of deaths at approximately 1.7 million (21% of the population of the country). A United Nations investigation reported 2–3 million dead while UNICEF estimates that 3 million had been killed. Demographic analysis by Patrick Heuveline suggests that between 1.17 and 3.42 million Cambodians were killed while Marek Sliwinski estimates that 1.8 million is a conservative figure. Researcher Craig Etcheson of the Documentation Center of Cambodia suggests that the death toll was between 2 and 2.5 million, with a \"most likely\" figure of 2.2 million. After five years of researching grave sites, he concluded that \"these mass graves contain the remains of 1,386,734 victims of execution\".\n\nAn additional 300,000 Cambodians starved to death between 1979 and 1980, largely as a result of the after-effects of Khmer Rouge policy.\n\nFearing a Vietnamese attack, Pol Pot ordered a pre-emptive invasion of Vietnam on 18 April 1978. His Cambodian forces crossed the border and looted nearby villages, mostly in the border town of Ba Chúc. Of the 3,157 civilians who had lived in Ba Chúc, only two survived the massacre. These Cambodian forces were repelled by the Vietnamese.\n\nDue to several years of border conflict and the flood of refugees fleeing Kampuchea, relations between Cambodia and Vietnam collapsed by December 1978. On 25 December 1978, the Vietnamese armed forces along with the Kampuchean United Front for National Salvation, an organization that included many dissatisfied former Khmer Rouge members, invaded Cambodia and captured Phnom Penh on 7 January 1979. Despite a traditional Cambodian fear of Vietnamese domination, defecting Khmer Rouge activists assisted the Vietnamese and with Vietnam's approval became the core of the new People's Republic of Kampuchea. The new government was quickly dismissed by the Khmer Rouge and China as a \"puppet government\".\n\nAt the same time, the Khmer Rouge retreated west and it continued to control certain areas near the Thai border for the next decade. These included Phnom Malai, the mountainous areas near Pailin in the Cardamom Mountains and Anlong Veng in the Dângrêk Mountains.\n\nThese Khmer Rouge bases were not self-sufficient and were funded by diamond and timber smuggling, by military assistance from China channeled by means of the Thai military and by food smuggled from markets across the border in Thailand.\n\nDespite its deposal, the Khmer Rouge retained its United Nations seat, which was occupied by Thiounn Prasith, an old compatriot of Pol Pot and Ieng Sary from their student days in Paris and one of the 21 attendees at the 1960 KPRP Second Congress. The seat was retained under the name Democratic Kampuchea until 1982 and then under the name Coalition Government of Democratic Kampuchea. Western governments voted in favor of the Coalition Government of Democratic Kampuchea retaining Cambodia's seat in the organization over the newly installed Vietnamese-backed People's Republic of Kampuchea, even though it included the Khmer Rouge. In 1988. Margaret Thatcher stated: \"So, you'll find that the more reasonable ones of the Khmer Rouge will have to play some part in the future government, but only a minority part. I share your utter horror that these terrible things went on in Kampuchea\". On the contrary, Sweden changed its vote in the United Nations and withdrew its support for the Khmer Rouge after a large number of Swedish citizens wrote letters to their elected representatives demanding a policy change towards Pol Pot's regime.\n\nVietnam's victory was supported by the Soviet Union and it had significant ramifications for the region while the People's Republic of China launched a punitive invasion of northern Vietnam and retreated (with both sides claiming victory). China, the United States and the ASEAN countries sponsored the creation and the military operations of a Cambodian government-in-exile known as the Coalition Government of Democratic Kampuchea which included besides the Khmer Rouge also republican KPNLF and royalist ANS.\n\nEastern and central Cambodia were firmly under the control of Vietnam and its Cambodian allies by 1980 while the western part of the country continued to be a battlefield throughout the 1980s and millions of landmines were sown across the countryside. The Khmer Rouge still led by Pol Pot was the strongest of the three rebel groups in the Coalition Government of Democratic Kampuchea which received extensive military aid from China, Britain and the United States and intelligence from the Thai military. Britain and the United States in particular gave aid to the two non-Khmer Rouge members of the coalition.\nIn an attempt to broaden its support base, the Khmer Rouge formed the Patriotic and Democratic Front of the Great National Union of Kampuchea in 1979. In 1981, the Khmer Rouge went as far as to officially renounce communism and somewhat moved their ideological emphasis to nationalism and anti-Vietnamese rhetoric instead. However, some analysts argue that this change meant little in practice because as historian Kelvin Rowley puts it \"CPK propaganda had always relied on nationalist rather than revolutionary appeals\".\n\nAlthough Pol Pot relinquished the Khmer Rouge leadership to Khieu Samphan in 1985, he continued to be the driving force behind the Khmer Rouge insurgency, giving speeches to his followers. Journalists such as Nate Thayer who spent some time with the Khmer Rouge during that period commented that despite the international community's near-universal condemnation of the Khmer Rouge's brutal rule a considerable number of Cambodians in Khmer Rouge-controlled areas seemed genuinely to support Pol Pot.\n\nWhile Vietnam proposed to withdraw from Cambodia in return for a political settlement that would exclude the Khmer Rouge from power, the rebel coalition government as well as ASEAN, China and the United States, insisted that such a condition was unacceptable. Nevertheless, Vietnam declared in 1985 that it would complete the withdrawal of its forces from Cambodia by 1990 and it did so in 1989, having allowed the government that it had installed there to consolidate its rule and gain sufficient military strength.\n\nAfter a decade of inconclusive conflict, the pro-Vietnamese Cambodian government and the rebel coalition signed a treaty in 1991 calling for elections and disarmament. However, the Khmer Rouge resumed fighting in 1992, boycotted the election and in the following year rejected its results. It now fought the new Cambodian coalition government which included the former Vietnamese-backed communists (headed by Hun Sen) as well as the Khmer Rouge's former non-communist and monarchist allies (notably Prince Rannaridh). A \"Provisional Government of National Union and National Salvation of Cambodia\" was established by Khmer Rouge authorities in July 1994. \n\nThere was a mass defection from the Khmer Rouge in 1996, when around half of its remaining soldiers (about 4,000) left. A conflict between the two main participants in the ruling coalition caused in 1997 Prince Rannaridh to seek support from some of the Khmer Rouge leaders while refusing to have any dealings with Pol Pot. This resulted in bloody factional fighting among the Khmer Rouge leaders, ultimately leading to Pol Pot's trial and imprisonment by the Khmer Rouge. Pol Pot died in April 1998. Khieu Samphan surrendered in December. \n\nOn 29 December 1998, the remaining leaders of the Khmer Rouge apologized for the 1970s genocide. By 1999, most members had surrendered or been captured. In December 1999, Ta Mok and the remaining leaders surrendered and the Khmer Rouge effectively ceased to exist. Most of the surviving Khmer Rouge leaders live in the Pailin area or are hiding in Phnom Penh.\n\nCambodia has gradually recovered demographically and economically from the Khmer Rouge regime, although the psychological scars affect many Cambodian families and émigré communities. It is noteworthy that Cambodia has a very young population and by 2003 three-quarters of Cambodians were too young to remember the Khmer Rouge era. Nonetheless, their generation is affected by the traumas of the past.\n\nMembers of this younger generation may know of the Khmer Rouge only through word of mouth from parents and elders. In part, this is because the government does not require that educators teach children about Khmer Rouge atrocities in the schools. However, Cambodia's Education Ministry started to teach Khmer Rouge history in high schools beginning in 2009. China has defended its ties with the Khmer Rouge. Chinese Foreign Ministry spokeswoman Jiang Yu said that \"the government of Democratic Kampuchea had a legal seat at the United Nations, and had established broad foreign relations with more than 70 countries\".\n\nThe Extraordinary Chambers in the Courts of Cambodia (ECCC) was established as a Cambodian court with international participation and assistance to bring to trial senior leaders and those most responsible for crimes committed during the Khmer Rouge regime. It has been handling four cases since 2007. ECCC's efforts for outreach toward both national and international audience include public trial hearings, study tours, video screenings, school lectures and video archives on the web site. As of May 2018, cases against the former leadership of the Khmer Rouge regime for crimes including genocide and crimes against humanity remain ongoing.\n\nAfter claiming to feel great remorse for his part in Khmer Rouge atrocities, Kaing Guek Eav (alias Duch), head of a torture centre from which 16,000 men, women and children were sent to their deaths, surprised the court in his genocide trial on 27 November 2009 with a plea for his freedom. His Cambodian lawyer Kar Savuth stunned the tribunal further by issuing the trial's first call for an acquittal of his client even after his French lawyer denied seeking such a verdict. On 26 July 2010, he was convicted and sentenced to thirty years. Many condemned the sentence as too lenient. Theary Seng responded: \"We hoped this tribunal would strike hard at impunity, but if you can kill 14,000 people and serve only 19 years – 11 hours per life taken – what is that? It's a joke\", voicing concerns about political interference. In February 2012, Duch's sentence was increased to life imprisonment following appeals by both the prosecution and defence. In dismissing the defence's appeal, Judge Kong Srim stated that \"Duch's crimes were \"undoubtedly among the worst in recorded human history\" and deserved \"the highest penalty available\".\n\nPublic trial hearings in Phnom Penh are open to the people of Cambodia over the age of 18 including foreigners. In order to assist people's will to participate in the public hearings, the court provides free bus transportation for groups of Cambodians who want to visit the court. Since the commencement of Case 001 trial in 2009 through the end of 2011, 53,287 people have participated in the public hearings. ECCC also has hosted Study Tour Program to help villagers in rural areas understand the history of the Khmer Rouge regime. The court provides free transport for them to come to visit the court and meet with court officials to learn about its work, in addition to visits to the genocide museum and the killing fields. ECCC also has visited village to village to provide video screenings and school lectures to promote their understanding of the trial proceedings. Furthermore, trials and transcripts are partially available with English translation on the ECCC's website.\n\nThe Tuol Sleng Museum of Genocide and Choeng Ek Killing Fields are two major museums to learn the history of the Khmer Rouge.\n\nThe Tuol Sleng Museum of Genocide is a former high school building, which was transformed into a torture, interrogation and execution center between 1976 and 1979. The Khmer Rouge called the center S-21. Of the estimated 15,000 to 30,000 prisoners, only seven prisoners survived. The Khmer Rouge photographed the vast majority of the inmates and left a photographic archive, which enables visitors to see almost 6,000 S-21 portraits on the walls. Visitors can also learn how the inmates were tortured from the equipment and facilities exhibited in the buildings. In addition, one of the seven survivors shares his story with visitors at the museum.\n\nThe Choeng Ek killing fields are located about 15 kilometers outside of Phnom Penh. Most of the prisoners who were held captive at S-21 were taken to the fields to be executed and deposited in one of the approximately 129 mass graves. It is estimated that the graves contain the remains of over 20,000 victims. After the discovery of the site in 1979, the Vietnamese transformed the site into a memorial and stored skulls and bones in an open-walled wooden memorial pavilion. Eventually, these remains were showcased in the memorial's centerpiece stupa, or Buddhist shrine.\n\nThe Documentation Center of Cambodia (DC-Cam), an independent research institute, published \"A History of Democratic Kampuchea 1975-1979\", the nation's first textbook on the history of the Khmer Rouge. The 74-page textbook was approved by the government as a supplementary text in 2007. The textbook is aiming at standardising and improving the information students receive about the Khmer Rouge years because the government-issued social studies textbook devotes eight or nine pages to the period. The publication was a part of their genocide education project that includes leading the design of a national genocide studies curriculum with the Ministry of Education, training thousands of teachers and 1,700 high schools on how to teach about genocide and working with universities across Cambodia.\n\nYouth for Peace, a Cambodian non-governmental organization (NGO) that offers education in peace, leadership, conflict resolution and reconciliation to Cambodian's youth, published a book titled \"Behind the Darkness:Taking Responsibility or Acting Under Orders?\" in 2011. The book is unique in that instead of focusing on the victims as most books do, it collects the stories of former Khmer Rouge, giving insights into the functioning of the regime and approaching the question of how such a regime could take place.\n\nWhile the tribunal contributes to the memorialization process at national level, some civil society groups promote memorialization at community level. The International Center for Conciliation (ICfC) began working in Cambodia in 2004 as a branch of the ICfC in Boston. ICfC launched the Justice and History Outreach (JHO) project in 2007 and has worked in villages in rural Cambodia with the goal of creating mutual understanding and empathy between victims and former members of the Khmer Rouge. Following the dialogues, villagers identify their own ways of memorialization such as collecting stories to be transmitted to the younger generations or building a memorial. Through the process, some villagers are beginning to accept the possibility of an alternative viewpoint to the traditional notions of evil associated with anyone who worked for the Khmer Rouge regime.\n\nRadio National Kampuchea (RNK) as well as private and NGO radio stations broadcast programmes on the Khmer Rouge and trials. ECCC has its own weekly radio program on RNK, which provides an opportunity for the public to interact with court officials and deepen their understanding of Cases.\n\nYouth for Peace, a Cambodian NGO that offers education in peace, leadership, conflict resolution and reconciliation to Cambodian's youth, has broadcast the weekly radio program \"You Also Have A Chance\" since 2009. Aiming at preventing the passing on of hatred and violence to future generations, the program allows former Khmer Rouge to talk anonymously about their past experience.\n\nAll Cambodian television stations include regular coverage of the progress of the trials. The following stations feature special programming:\n\nInternational television stations such as the BBC, Al Jazeera, CNN, NHK and Channel News Asia also cover the development of trials.\n\nECCC also uses various social media to update the development of the tribunal.\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "53025858", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53025858", "title": "List of protests against Executive Order 13769", "text": "List of protests against Executive Order 13769\n\nFrom January 28 through February 4, 2017, a large number of protests at international airports and other locations were held across the United States and abroad, in opposition to Donald Trump's Executive Order 13769, known as \"Protecting the Nation from Foreign Terrorist Entry into the United States\".\n\n"}
{"id": "49632961", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49632961", "title": "List of security assessment tools", "text": "List of security assessment tools\n\nThis is a list of available software and hardware tools that are designed for or are particularly suited to various kinds of security assessment and security testing.\n\nSeveral operating systems and tool suites provide bundles of tools useful for various types of security assessment.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "39401368", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39401368", "title": "Marketing of war", "text": "Marketing of war\n\nThe marketing of war is a concept introduced by Professor Kostas Gouliamos (European University Cyprus) and Dr. Antonis L. Theocharous (Cyprus University of Technology) in 2008. In their paper \"Harming Democracy in Mediolatry Societies: Decoding the Marketing of War and Animosities through Photo Images\", the authors consider consumption of war through utilization of marketing and, in particular, of social marketing.\n\nThe marketing of war has been described as a key element of the form of militarism known as neomilitarism. Neomilitarism has been defined as a form of militarism that is distinguished by the reliance on a relatively small number of volunteer fighters; heavy reliance on complex technologies; and the rationalization and expansion of government advertising and recruitment programs designed to promote military service.\n\nThe concept has been further developed in the book \"The Marketing of War in the Age of Neo-Militarism\", co-edited the same authors. For Gouliamos and Kassimeris, the marketing of war is shaped by the mechanisms of manufacturing decision-making of the lobbying industry on both sides of Atlantic. As a result of the intensification and escalation of the 'marketing of war', the whole civil society is heavily militarized while the LifeWorld is colonized by the apparatus of stratocracy.\n\nMoreover, the book assesses the inherent meaning of such militarization from a critical, interdisciplinary perspective. Against the background of democracy and capitalism, \"The Marketing of War in the Age of Neo-Militarism\" challenges prevailing accounts of the \"military–industrial complex\" as it explores significant interrelated themes denoting the accelerating process of militarization of society.\n"}
{"id": "43573751", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43573751", "title": "Mauritanian National Union", "text": "Mauritanian National Union\n\nThe Mauritanian National Union (, abbreviated UNM) was a political party in Mauritania. The party was founded in April 1959, as a merger between a dissident group in the Mauritanian Regroupment Party (PRM) and the Union of Natives of Southern Mauritania (UOMS). The foundation of the party took place in the run-up to the May 1959 legislative elections. Members of the party bureau of UNM included Hadrami Ould Khatrri (political secretary), Moussa Sall, Yacoub Ould Boumediana (chairman) and Ba Abdoul Aziz (administrative secretary). The UNM favoured unity with the neighbouring states in the Mali Federation.\n\nThe party had most of its support from the Black populations of southern Mauritania. The party could not contest the May 17, 1959 legislative elections, having been formed too soon before the polls. The party held its founding conference in July 1959, in Aïoun. At the conference, the party declared itself as 'the Mauritanian section of the Party of the African Federation' (PFA), a move reciprocated in a greeting from the PFA bureau two months later.\n\nIn February 1960 Hadrami, Yacoubi and Ba were arrested, charged with conspiring against the integrity of the state.\nOnce the Mali Federation collapsed, the jailed UNM leaders were released. Subsequently the party moved closed to Moktar Ould Daddah. The party was pressured to align with PRM and on October 10, 1960 the two parties formed a united front. At a meeting held on June 30, 1961 leaders of PRM, UNM and the former Nahda agreed to merge their parties. Subsequently, the Mauritanian People's Party (PPM) was formed as the sole legal party in the country.\n"}
{"id": "3011508", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3011508", "title": "Moses Israel Fürst", "text": "Moses Israel Fürst\n\nMoses Israel Fürst (died circa 1692) was a merchant and financier of Hamburg, Germany. He was also active as a Court Jew, a term describing the role of historical Jewish bankers or businessmen who lent money and managed finances of some of the European noble houses. From 1688 onwards, Fürst held the tobacco monopoly in the state of Mecklenburg-Schwerin together with fellow merchant Michael Hinrichsen.\n"}
{"id": "574414", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=574414", "title": "National Audit Office (United Kingdom)", "text": "National Audit Office (United Kingdom)\n\nThe National Audit Office (NAO) is an independent Parliamentary body in the United Kingdom which is responsible for auditing central government departments, government agencies and non-departmental public bodies. The NAO also carries out Value for Money (VFM) audit into the administration of public policy.\n\nThe NAO is the auditor of bodies funded directly by the Parliament of the United Kingdom.\n\nThe NAO reports to the Comptroller and Auditor General who is an officer of the House of Commons of the Parliament of the United Kingdom and in turn reports to the Public Accounts Committee, a select committee of the House of Commons. The reports produced by the NAO are reviewed by PAC and in some cases investigated further.\n\nThe NAO has two main streams of work: Financial Audits and Value For Money (VFM) audits.\n\nThe NAO’s financial audits give assurance over three aspects of government expenditure: the truth and fairness of financial statements; the regularity (or statutory validity) of the expenditure, and; the propriety of the audited body’s conduct in accordance with parliamentary, statutory and public expectations. Financial audits are carried out in much the same way as private auditing bodies and the NAO voluntarily applies the International Standards of Auditing (ISAs). The NAO is subject to inspection by the Audit Quality Review team of the Financial Reporting Council.\n\nValue for Money (VFM) audits are non-financial audits to measure the effectiveness, economy and efficiency of government spending. Roughly sixty of these reports are produced each year, the most notable from recent years being the reports on MRSA, which led to an increase in public interest in the topic, the report on the rescue of British Energy and the report in the Public Private Partnership to maintain the London Underground. The remits of the NAO and the Public Accounts Committee do not allow them to question the policy itself and so VFM reports only examine the implementation of policy. The responsibility for questioning policy is left for other select committees and debating chambers of Parliament, but this has not prevented the PAC being named committee of the year in 2006.\n\n\"Good Governance\", an output somewhere between financial and VFM audits, was previously a strand of NAO work, but is no longer a focus of activity. The NAO does, however, publish best practice guidance for public sector organisations. An example includes the fact sheet on governance statements. In addition, the NAO undertakes fast-paced and more narrowly focused work called investigations.\n\nThe NAO received new powers under the Local Audit and Accountability Act 2014 to provide an end-to-end view of policy implementation, and produce reports aimed at the local government sector.\n\nThe Comptroller Function is administered by the small, but important, Exchequer Section within the NAO.\n\nIts work centres on recording all transactions to and from the Consolidated and National Loans funds. Money cannot be paid from either of these without the C&AG's prior approval. This approval is granted every banking day through a mechanism known as 'the credit'. The Exchequer Section is also responsible for agreeing payments from the Consolidated Fund directly to certain bodies, including the Queen (through the civil list), judicial salaries, MEPs salaries and the European Commission.\n\nThe NAO produces a number of briefings for select committees, but its key audience is the Public Accounts Committee. It also has a strong relationship with the Public Accounts Commission that oversees the work of the NAO and approves its budgets.\n\nThe NAO and Public Accounts Committee (PAC) form the key links of the Public Audit Circle which has the following sequence:\n\nThe Public Accounts Commission (TPAC) annually approves the NAO's corporate plans and budgets. It also receives value for money reports on the operation of the NAO. These are written by private sector audit firms in much the same manner as the NAO reports on Central Government.\n\nThe National Audit Office is a member of the International Organisation of Supreme Audit Institutions (INTOSAI). The NAO shares knowledge and experience with other Supreme Audit Institutions (SAIs) around the world and undertakes the audit of some international bodies. For example, between 2010–2016 the C&AG was one of three members of the United Nations Board of Auditors, responsible for auditing the United Nations itself, including peacekeeping operations and related organisations such as UNICEF and the UN High Commissioner for Refugees (UNHCR).\n\nThe earliest known mention of a public official responsible for auditing government expenditure is a reference made in 1314 to the \"Auditor of the Exchequer\". In 1559 an office was set up, with responsibility for auditing Exchequer payments, called the \"Auditors of the Imprest\". In 1780 \"Commissioners for Auditing the Public Accounts\" were appointed by statute (the former arrangement having fallen into abeyance). The Commissioners worked closely with the Comptroller of the Exchequer (who was charged with controlling the issue of funds to the government) following the establishment of that office in 1834. Then, under the terms of the Exchequer and Audit Departments Act 1866, there was a formal merger between the office of the Comptroller and that of the Commissioners to create a new office of the Comptroller and Auditor General.\n\nThe NAO developed from the former Exchequer and Audit Department (founded in 1866) in 1983 as the auditor for central government (including most of the externalised agencies and public bodies) as part of an \"appropriate mechanism\" to check and reinforce departmental balance and matching of quantitative allocation with qualitative purpose (as set out by public policy). The existence and work of the NAO are underpinned by three fundamental principles of public audit:\n\n\nThe basic need for the NAO arises from these three fundamental principles, in that, as Parliament votes on public expenditure of various activities by public bodies, they need auditors that are independent of the body in question, the government and/or opposing political parties; while auditing for compliance and legal spending by departments on the activities voted for by Parliament, in a transparent and public forum.\n\nThe NAO is based in London and Newcastle and has a staff of 800.\n\nThe NAO is structured into Directorates, each with a responsibility for a government department (for instance, the Home Office or Department for Culture, Media and Sport). Each Directorate contains 20–30 staff, many of whom are qualified accountants or in training for qualification with the Institute of Chartered Accountants in England and Wales (ICAEW). Within Directorates, staff will be split between Financial Audit and Value for Money work and include staff of the following grades:\n\n\nDirectorates are arranged into clusters of government departments of similar characteristics. This enables the NAO to undertake comparative work between departments.\n\nAbove director grade, Directors General have responsibility for specific cross NAO functions (such as Audit Practice and Quality, and Finance and Commerce) and Executive Leaders (previously \"Assistant Auditors General\") support the Board.\n\nThe NAO has finance, human resource and ICT functions to support its operations.\n\nPart of the NAO's London Office is a listed building, originally built for Imperial Airways as their \"Empire Terminal\". The building underwent a £60m restoration and refurbishment, completed in 2009. The NAO rents part of its offices to tenants, generating income of c£1.3mn in 2012–13\n\nThe building is a modern, open plan office and the refurbishment enabled the NAO to introduce many environmentally friendly features, such as rain-water harvesting.\n\nThe NAO has a separate office in Newcastle employing c90 staff.\n\nFollowing the controversy over a previous C&AG’s expenses —see the criticisms— the governance arrangements of the NAO were overhauled and a Board was put in place to oversee the running of the organisation. The Board is made up of\n\n\nSome of the criticisms that have been levelled at the NAO include the following:\n\nThere are several other public sector auditing bodies in the United Kingdom:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "37866434", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37866434", "title": "Partido ng Manggagawa at Magsasaka", "text": "Partido ng Manggagawa at Magsasaka\n\nThe Partido ng Manggagawa at Magsasaka (lit. Workers' and Farmers' Party, PMM), formerly Lapiang Manggagawa (, LM), is a political party in the Philippines.\n\nThe Philippine Trade Union Center split into different groups, which included the Labor Party of the Philippines. Led by Cipriano Cid, Roberto Oca, Ignacio Lacsina and Felixberto Olalia, the Labor Party failed to win an election. Some members reorganized themselves into the Katipunang Manggagawang Pilipino (Association of Filipino Workers) at April 25, 1959 at the Manila Hotel with Oca as party president but other groups soon disassociated themselves from the party.\n\nFounded in February 3, 1963 as the Lapiang Manggagawa (LM), Cipriano Cid, the founder, complained that the \"party leaders were already being closely watched.\" The party broke up in August 1963, and its candidate for the Manila mayoralty, Roberto Oca, was recruited by the Nacionalista Party. Other members coalesced into the Liberal Party. \n\nHowever, some founders from that Lyceum of the Philippines meeting persisted and carried on the \"Lapiang Manggagawa\" name. It was also known, abit briefly in 1965, as the Socialist Party of the Philippines. The party registered with the Commission on Elections in 1983. The party supported the Corazon Aquino-Salvador Laurel ticket in the 1986 presidential election. In the 1992 elections, the party merged with the Lakas-NUCD. For the 1998 elections, the party merged with the Partido ng Demokratikong Reporma (Party for Democratic Reform).\n\nFor the 2010 presidential election, the party announced its nomination of Secretary of Public Works and Highways Hermogenes Ebdane for president. Ebdane accepted the nomination on November 2009, but withdrew from the presidential race in December 2009. Ebdane ran instead for the governorship of Zambales; he won, defeating Governor Amor Deloso. In 2012 Zambales' 2nd district special election, Ebdane's son Jun Omar successfully defended the district's seat in the House of Representatives of the Philippines against Deloso's daughter and from deceased Antonio M. Diaz's daughter, who ran under the Nacionalista Party.\n\n"}
{"id": "2721559", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2721559", "title": "Peace of Nikolsburg", "text": "Peace of Nikolsburg\n\nThe Peace of Nikolsburg or Peace of Mikulov, signed on 31 December 1621 in Nikolsburg, Moravia (now Mikulov in the Czech Republic), was the treaty which ended the war between Prince Gabriel Bethlen of Transylvania and Emperor Ferdinand II of the Holy Roman Empire. Nikolaus Esterházy de Galántha was one of the treaty's chief negotiators.\n\nTo take advantage of Ferdinand's preoccupation with the Bohemian Revolt at the beginning of the Thirty Years' War, Bethlen invaded Habsburg-controlled Royal Hungary in 1618 and fully conquered it until 1620. Although a peace was settled in January 1620 giving Bethlen 13 counties in eastern Royal Hungary, the prince resumed the war in September. Ferdinand's defeat of the Bohemians at the Battle of White Mountain in November allowed him to focus his forces on Bethlen, and the emperor was able to reconquer most of Royal Hungary by 1621. Because Bethlen did not distribute the confiscated property of Catholic noblemen to his Protestant noblemen as he had promised, they rescinded their support. These setbacks, as well as Bethlen's lack of support from the Ottoman Empire, led Bethlen and Ferdinand to seek terms in Nikolsburg.\n\nIn return for Bethlen's renunciation of any claims to the throne of the Kingdom of Hungary, Ferdinand agreed to observe the conditions of the Treaty of Vienna of 1606, which had granted full freedom of worship to Protestants in Transylvania and agreed on the summoning of a general diet within six months. In addition, Bethlen secured the (purely formal) title of \"Imperial Prince\" (of Transylvania), seven counties around the Upper Tisza River (in present-day Slovakia, Ukraine, Hungary, and Romania), the fortresses of Tokaj, Munkács, and Ecsed, and a duchy in Silesia. The treaty gave Ferdinand peace in the east and allowed him to focus his forces on subduing the Rhenish Palatinate.\n\nThe Peace of Nikolsburg was confirmed by the Treaty of Vienna in 1624 and the Third Peace of Pressburg in 1626.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "44294801", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44294801", "title": "Proterra (Brazil)", "text": "Proterra (Brazil)\n\nPROTERRA, or Programme for Land Redistribution and Stimulation of Agroindustry in the North and Northeast, was a Brazilian government programme of the 1970s to address rural poverty founded following the approval of the Land Statute in 1964. In the Amazon basin it was supported by the World Bank.\n"}
{"id": "647092", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=647092", "title": "Pursuivant", "text": "Pursuivant\n\nA pursuivant or, more correctly, pursuivant of arms, is a junior officer of arms. Most pursuivants are attached to official heraldic authorities, such as the College of Arms in London or the Court of the Lord Lyon in Edinburgh. In the mediaeval era, many great nobles employed their own officers of arms. Today, there still exist some private pursuivants that are not employed by a government authority. In Scotland, for example, several pursuivants of arms have been appointed by Clan Chiefs. These pursuivants of arms look after matters of heraldic and genealogical importance for clan members.\n\nSome Masonic Grand Lodges have an office known as the Grand Pursuivant. It is the Grand Pursuivant's duty to announce all applicants for admission into the Grand Lodge by their names and Masonic titles; to take charge of the jewels and regalia of the Grand Lodge; to attend all meetings of the Grand Lodge, and to perform such other duties as may be required by the Grand Master or presiding officer. The office is also at the local Masonic lodge level in the jurisdiction of the Grand Lodge of Pennsylvania. In that jurisdiction it is the Pursuivant's duty to guard the door of the lodge, and announce and escort applicants for admission into the lodge. The office is generally unknown at the local level in Masonic jurisdictions outside Pennsylvania, where the equivalent role is named the Inner Guard.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "285084", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=285084", "title": "Raoul Vaneigem", "text": "Raoul Vaneigem\n\nRaoul Vaneigem (; born 21 March 1934) is a Belgian writer known for his 1967 book \"The Revolution of Everyday Life\".\n\nHe was born in Lessines (Hainaut, Belgium) and studied romance philology at the Free University of Brussels (now split into the Université Libre de Bruxelles and the Vrije Universiteit Brussel) from 1952 to 1956. He was a member of the Situationist International from 1961 to 1970. He currently resides in Belgium and is the father of four children.\n\nVaneigem and Guy Debord were two of the principal theorists of the Situationist movement. Vaneigem's slogans frequently made it onto the walls of Paris during the May 1968 uprisings. His most famous book, and the one that contains the most famous slogans, is \"The Revolution of Everyday Life\" (in French \"Traité de savoir-vivre à l'usage des jeunes générations\"). In it, he challenged what he called \"passive nihilism\", a passive acceptance of the absurdities of modernism which he considered \"an overture to conformism\".\n\nAccording to the website \"nothingness.org\",\n\nThe voice of Raoul Vaneigem was one of the strongest of the Situationists. Counterpoised to Guy Debord's political and polemic style, Vaneigem offered a more poetic and spirited prose. \"The Revolution of Everyday Life\" (\"Traité de savoir-vivre à l'usage des jeunes générations\"), published in the same year as [Debord's] \"The Society of the Spectacle\", helped broaden and balance the presentation of the SI's theories and practices. One of the longest SI members, and frequent editor of the journal \"Internationale Situationniste\", Vaneigem finally left the SI in November 1970, citing their failures as well as his own in his letter of resignation. Soon after, Debord issued a typically scathing response denouncing both Vaneigem and his critique of the Situationist International.\n\nAfter leaving the Situationist International, Vaneigem wrote a series of polemical books defending the idea of a free and self-regulating social order. He frequently made use of pseudonyms, including \"Julienne de Cherisy,\" \"Robert Desessarts,\" \"Jules-François Dupuis,\" \"Tristan Hannaniel,\" \"Anne de Launay,\" and \"Michel Thorgal.\" Recently he has been an advocate of a new type of strike, in which service and transportation workers provide services for free and refuse to collect payment or fares.\n\nIn 2009 Vaneigem was interviewed by Hans Ulrich Obrist for e-flux.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "28075004", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28075004", "title": "Royal Association for Disability Rights", "text": "Royal Association for Disability Rights\n\nRoyal Association for Disability Rights (RADAR) was a UK pan-disability charity which was set up with the aim of representing the needs and expectations of disabled people in the UK. It was formed in 1977 as the Royal Association for Disability and Rehabilitation and later renamed.\n\nRADAR (Royal Association for Disability Rights) was an umbrella organisation which sought to work with and for disabled people in the UK. Its aim was to remove structural, economic and attitudinal barriers. It campaigned and produced policy statements and briefings on related issues and provided support services for its member organisations.\nDisability Rights UK was formed through a unification of Disability Alliance, Radar and National Centre for Independent Living on 1 January 2012.\n\n"}
{"id": "13625540", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13625540", "title": "Security deposit", "text": "Security deposit\n\nA security deposit is a sum of money held in trust either as an initial part-payment in a purchasing process (often used to prevent the seller selling an item to someone else during an agreed period of time while the buyer verifies the suitability of the item, or arranges finance) - also known as an earnest payment, or else, in the course of a rental agreement to ensure the property owner against default by the tenant and for the cost of repair in relation to any damage explicitly specified in the lease and that did in fact occur.\n\nIn certain taxation regimes a deposit need not be declared as part of the gross income of the receiving party (person or corporation) until either the depositing party or an arbitrator agrees the funds may be used for the intended purpose.\n\nA 1990 ruling of the United States Supreme Court provides that a deposit differs from an advance payment because the depositing party has dominion over the funds and retains the right to insist upon repayment in cash. On the other hand, the party making an advance payment retains no right to insist upon the return of the funds as long as the recipient fulfills the contractual agreement.\n\nThe rationale behind the court’s decision is that the recipient of the deposit does not enjoy “complete dominion” over the funds and is subject to an express obligation to repay so long as the customer fulfills his or her legal obligations. Additionally, both the timing and the method of refund are largely within the control of the depositing party, as he or she can choose to insist upon repayment in cash or apply the deposit to purchase services. The recipient’s right to retain the funds of the deposit is contingent upon events that are outside of his or her control.\n\nAlthough the recipient may receive an economic benefit from the deposits – i.e. interest – the prospect that income will be generated provides no ground for taxing the principal. However, any income that the recipient may earn through the use of the deposit money will be taxable.\n\nSecurity deposits are required most often by lessors of automobiles, apartments, and commercial real estate.\n\nThe security deposits required by many residential landlords of their tenants are the source of much dispute and litigation. Many states and municipalities have enacted laws that specifically regulate the landlord's ability to withhold tenant security deposits after a tenant moves out. Some states and cities require that interest be paid to the tenant as it is earned on the security deposit.\n\nA landlord's deductions from a tenant's security deposit must be reasonable. The landlord may make deductions for missing rent payments and for damages beyond ordinary wear and tear, which is the subject matter's depreciation or deterioration in value by reasonable and ordinary use by the tenant. Examples of non-deductible wear and tear include: paint retouching, minor cleaning, small tack holes, and nicks and scratches. Examples of deductible damages include large or excessive holes in the wall, carpet stains, and broken doors and windows.\n\nIf a landlord wrongfully withholds a tenant's security deposit, the tenant may be entitled to additional damages beyond the amount of the security deposit. These may include statutory damages for local consumer collection practices act violations, damages that may total two or three times the value of the deposit (depending on the state), consequential (resulting) damages, interest, and in more rare instances punitive damages.\n\nIn some legal regimes the deposit has to be placed with an independent escrow agent or licensed deposit taker such as a bank so that the risk of fraud is reduced and the funds earn interest at a fair market rate.\n\nOften car rental and car leasing companies will require deposit to protect itself against possible damage to the car. Once the car is returned it is checked for any possible damage and if needed funds are deducted from deposit to cover the loss of value and repairs.\n\nIn the United States of America, Washington DC, Alaska, Illinois, and Wisconsin have notably more tenant-friendly legislation in place than states like Indiana or Michigan, for example. The cities of Madison, Wisconsin and Chicago, Illinois have in place substantially greater protection of tenants' security deposit rights than the surrounding areas.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "14287628", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14287628", "title": "Sheriffs in the United States", "text": "Sheriffs in the United States\n\nIn the United States, a sheriff is an official in a county or independent city responsible for keeping the peace and enforcing the law. Unlike most officials in law enforcement in the United States, sheriffs are usually elected, although many states (such as California) have state laws requiring that a person possess certain law enforcement qualifications before being able to run for the office. Elected sheriffs are accountable directly to the constitution of their state, the United States Constitution, statutes, and the citizens of their county.\n\nThe responsibilities of sheriffs and their agencies vary considerably by county. Many sheriffs have the role of a police chief, though some lead agencies with limited law enforcement duties. Sheriffs are also often responsible for managing county jails and security at local government buildings.\n\nThe law enforcement agency headed by a sheriff is most commonly referred to as the \"Sheriff's Office\", while some are instead called the \"Sheriff's Department.\" According to the National Sheriffs' Association, an American sheriff's advocacy group, there were 3,081 sheriff's offices . These range in size from very small (one- or two-member) forces in sparsely populated rural areas to large, full-service law enforcement agencies, such as the Los Angeles County Sheriff's Department, which is the largest sheriff's office and the seventh largest law enforcement agency in the United States, with 16,400 members and 400 reserve deputies.\n\nA regular officer of a sheriff's office is typically known as a deputy sheriff, sheriff's deputy or informally as a deputy. In a small sheriff's office, the deputies are supervised directly by the sheriff. Large sheriffs offices have several ranks in a similar manner to a police department. The Los Angeles County Sheriff's Department has thousands of regular deputies, who are 8 ranks below the sheriff. The actual second-in-command of the sheriff typically holds the title of chief deputy or undersheriff. In some counties, the undersheriff is the warden of the county jail.\n\nOf the 50 U.S. states, 48 have sheriffs. The two exceptions are Alaska, which does not have counties, and Connecticut, which has no county governments. The federal district and the 5 populated territories also do not have county governments.\n\nSheriffs are elected to four-year terms in 42 states, two-year terms in Arkansas and New Hampshire, three-year terms in New Jersey, and six-year terms in Massachusetts.\n\nIn many rural areas of the United States, particularly in the South and West, the sheriff has traditionally been viewed as one of a given county's most influential political office-holder.\n\nThe role of a sheriff's offices varies considerably from state to state and even from county to county. Sheriffs and their deputies (in all states except Delaware, where the sheriff's defined role is going through arbitration) tend to be sworn peace officers with the power to make arrests and serve before a magistrate or judge, serve warrants for arrest or order for arrest, and give a ticket/citation. Some states extend this authority to adjacent counties or to the entire state. In a small sheriff's office, the sheriff is likely to carry out law enforcement duties just like a regular deputy or police officer. In medium-sized or large sheriff's office, this is rare.\n\nMany sheriff's offices also perform other functions such as traffic control, animal enforcement, accident investigations, homicide investigation, narcotics investigation, transportation of prisoners, school resource officers, and courthouse security. Larger departments may perform other criminal investigations or engage in other specialized law enforcement activities. Some larger sheriff's departments may have aviation (including fixed-wing aircraft or helicopters), motorcycle unit, K9 units, tactical units, mounted details, or water patrols at their disposal.\n\nIn some areas of the country, such as in California's San Bernardino, Riverside, Orange, Sierra, Tulare and Ventura counties, the sheriff's office also has the responsibility of a coroner's office, and is charged with recovering deceased persons within their county and conducting autopsies. The official in charge of such sheriff's departments is typically titled sheriff-coroner or sheriff/coroner, and officers who perform this function for such departments are typically titled deputy sheriff-coroner or deputy coroner.\n\nMany sheriff's departments enlist the aid of local neighborhoods, using a community policing strategy, in working to prevent crime. The National Neighborhood Watch Program, sponsored by the National Sheriffs' Association, allows civilians and law enforcement officers to cooperate in keeping communities safe.\n\nAs the trends of sheriff's law enforcement duties becoming more extensive and complex continues, new career opportunities for people with specialized skills are opening up in sheriff's offices around the country. Among the specialties now in demand are underwater diving, piloting, boating, snow skiing, radar technology, communications, computer technology, accounting, emergency medicine, and foreign languages.\n\nSheriff's offices may coexist with other county level law enforcement agencies such as county police, county park police, etc.\n\nSheriffs in the United States generally fall into three broad categories:\n\n\nNote: There are two federal equivalents of the sheriff; the first is the United States Marshals Service, an agency of the Department of Justice. There are 94 United States Marshals, one for each federal judicial district. The U.S. Marshal and his or her Deputy Marshals are responsible for the transport of prisoners and security for the United States district courts, and also issue and enforce certain civil processes.\n\nThe other is the Marshal of the United States Supreme Court who performs all court related duties for the Supreme Court of the United States.\n\nIn Alabama, a sheriff is an elected official and the chief law enforcement officer in any given county. There is one sheriff for each of Alabama's 67 counties, with a varying number of deputies and various staff members (usually dependent on the population). A sheriff's office generally provides law-enforcement services to unincorporated towns and cities within the boundaries of the counties.\n\nThe office of sheriff does not exist in Alaska by the State's Constitution. Instead the functions that would be performed by lower-48 sheriffs and their deputies (such as civil process, court security, and prisoner transport) are performed by Alaska State Troopers and Alaska DPS Judicial Services Officers, who are the equivalent of \"bailiffs\" in lower-48 jurisdictions. AJS officers wear uniforms similar to troopers and staff district court facilities statewide but not magistrate's courts. Their peace officer status is limited to courthouses and when transporting prisoners in custody. Additionally, with no county jails, Alaska Dept. Of Corrections runs regional prisons which have separate male and female inmate \"pretrial wings\", which keep pretrial inmates who are legally innocent, separate from convicted prisoners who are serving a court imposed sentence following a criminal conviction. Pretrial wing units are the AK equivalent of lower-48 county jails. This uniquely makes Ak DOC officers both correctional officers and jailers. Pretrial units house persons charged who are formally charged with crimes and remanded to pretrial custody, vs. traditional prisons for persons convicted and sentenced to a term of incarceration.\n\nIn Arizona, a sheriff is the chief law enforcement officer of one of the 15 counties of the state, with a varying number of deputies and assorted staff (usually dependent on population). A constitutional officer specifically established by the Arizona Constitution, a sheriff, who heads a sheriff's office (Pima County uses the term \"sheriff's department\" instead), generally provides law enforcement services to unincorporated towns and cities within the boundaries of their county, maintains the county jail, and conducts all service of process for the Superior Court division for that county. In addition, many sheriff's offices have agreements with the Arizona Department of Corrections (ADC) and local police agencies to provide for the transport and detention of prisoners. After sentencing, many convicted persons are remanded over to the ADC to serve their sentence, but this has not always been the case.\n\nArizona is unique in that many sheriff's offices have formed semi-permanent posse units which can be operated as a reserve to the main deputized force under a variety of circumstances, as opposed to solely for fugitive retrieval as is historically associated with the term.\n\nThe Maricopa County Sheriff's Office (MCSO) is the largest sheriff's office in Arizona and the third-largest in the United States, with a total of 575 sworn officers and 2,735 civilian and detention employees . MCSO is headed by Sheriff Paul Penzone.\n\nIn Arkansas, sheriffs and their deputies are fully empowered peace officers with county-wide jurisdiction and thus, may legally exercise their authority in unincorporated and incorporated areas of a county. All peace officers in Arkansas—whether sheriffs, city police, state troopers, or constables—have statewide arrest powers for any felony criminal offense committed within their presence or view. Under state law, sheriffs and their deputies, as well as all other law enforcement and peace officers, are \"on-duty\" 24 hours a day, meaning they can make arrests with or without a warrant (provided the warrant-less arrest is a result of a violation of law committed in their presence or view).\n\nThe duties of an Arkansas sheriff generally include providing law enforcement services to residents, managing county jail(s), and providing bailiffs for the county, district, circuit, and other courts within the county. By the Arkansas Constitution, the sheriff is not the highest ranking law enforcement officer in a county—that power falls with the county coroner. The county coroner can conduct investigations into deaths within their county, have subpoena powers, and can conduct \"coroner's inquests\" (much like a grand jury) into certain deaths. The sheriff, on the other hand, has no such powers (other than investigative powers), although counties have the option to make sheriffs the highest ranking law officer, relegating the county coroner to the 2nd highest ranking law officer, although this is rarely done and doesn't change the official powers of the county sheriff. There are 75 county sheriffs in Arkansas, one for each county, regardless of its population size.\n\nWith very limited exceptions, sheriffs and their deputies may exercise their official authority only within the geographical boundaries of their specific county.\n\nThe office of sheriff was created by the state constitution and the office has not been substantially changed in 100 years.\n\nSheriffs in Arkansas are elected in even numbered years by citizens of their county to serve a term of two (2) years in office in accordance with the state constitution. Sheriffs rely upon the county's legislative body, known as the \"Quorum Court\", to appropriate funding and approve the yearly operating budget. However, in all other circumstances, the sheriff is entirely independent in the management of his elected office and is not subservient to or accountable to any other elected county official or body.\n\nIn some counties of Arkansas, a sheriff cannot campaign for reelection while wearing a county owned badge.\n\nIn California, a sheriff is an elected official and the chief law enforcement officer in any given county. The sheriff's department of each county polices unincorporated areas (areas of the county that do not lie within the jurisdiction of a police department of an incorporated municipality). As such, the sheriff and his or her deputies in rural areas and unincorporated municipalities are equivalent to police officers in the cities. The sheriff's department may also provide policing services to incorporated cities by contract (see contract city). Sheriff's departments in California are also responsible for enforcing criminal law on Native American tribal land, as prescribed by Public Law 280, which was enacted in 1953. The law transferred the responsibility of criminal law enforcement on tribal land from the federal government to state governments in specified states.\n\nAll peace officers in California are able to exercise their police powers anywhere in the state, on or off duty, regardless of county or municipal boundaries, thus California sheriffs and their deputies have full police powers in incorporated and unincorporated municipalities, outside their own counties, and on state freeways and interstates.\n\nBefore 2000, there was a constable or marshal in most (but not all) of California's 58 counties. The constable or marshal was responsible for providing bailiffs to the Municipal and Justice Courts and for serving criminal and civil process. During a reorganization of the state judicial system early in the first decade of the 21st century, the roles of constable, marshal, and sheriff were merged, so that California sheriffs assumed the duties of most marshals, and the position of constable was eliminated entirely. The marshals offices continued to exist in only three counties—Shasta, Trinity, and San Benito—where they perform all court-security and warrant-service functions.\n\nThe Los Angeles County Sheriff's Department (LASD) serves Los Angeles County, California. With over 10,000,000 people, it is the largest Sheriff department in the United States and provides general-service law enforcement to unincorporated areas of Los Angeles County, serving as the equivalent of the city police for unincorporated areas of the county as well as incorporated cities within the county who have contracted with the agency for law-enforcement services (known as \"contract cities\" in local jargon). It also holds primary jurisdiction over facilities operated by Los Angeles County, such as local parks, marinas and government buildings; provides marshal service for the Superior Court of California - County of Los Angeles; operates the county jail system; and provides services such as laboratories and academy training to smaller law enforcement agencies within the county.\n\nBecause the City and County of San Francisco are consolidated and coterminous—the only consolidated city and county in California—the San Francisco Sheriff historically possessed law enforcement authority. However, as the San Francisco Police Department provides general police service for the city, the Sheriff's Department handles judicial duties, staffs the jail, and provides law enforcement services for city facilities such as San Francisco City Hall and San Francisco General Hospital. San Francisco Sheriff's deputies back up the San Francisco Police as needed, as well as make arrests for criminal and vehicle-code violations while performing their duties.\n\nThe Denver Sheriff Department maintains the county correctional facilities as well as court functions. Law enforcement and investigations are the responsibility of the Denver Police Department. Denver's sheriff is appointed by the mayor, and serves as the sworn head of the sheriff department. Denver has had deputy sheriffs since the creation of the City & County of Denver in 1902, however the Denver Sheriff Department current organization was not established until 1969, consolidating all of the sheriff's functions under one management structure.\n\nThe Denver Sheriff is, along with Broomfield's, an anomaly within the state. In every other county, the Sheriff is an elected official and is the chief law enforcement officer of his county.\n\nConnecticut abolished county sheriffs in 2000 by Public Act 00-01. All civil-process-serving deputies were sworn in as state marshals, and criminal special deputies were sworn in as judicial marshals. Constables remain municipal officers governed by their respective town or city. A few towns have local sheriffs that primarily perform process serving duties and may act as a sergeant at arms for town meetings.\n\nPrior to the abolition of county sheriffs in 2000, duties of sheriffs in Connecticut were limited to process serving, court bailiffs, and executing search and arrest warrants. Other law enforcement duties, such as emergency response, highway patrol and traffic enforcement, and maintaining public order were left to municipal police departments or constables or the Connecticut State Police in places where no local police agency exists.\n\nThe first Constitution of Delaware in 1776 made the sheriff a conservator of the peace within the county in which he resides, either New Castle, Kent, or Sussex. The sheriff was, and still is, chosen by the citizens of each county at the general elections to serve a four-year term. Per Title 10, Chapter 21 of the Delaware Code, the Sheriff is an officer of the court. Responsibilities include processing orders of the court system; summoning inquests, jurors, and witnesses for the courts; and, conducting execution sales against personal and real estate property. County Sheriffs and their regular appointed deputies also take into custody unincarcerated persons immediately upon conviction of an imprisonable offense and convey them to the appropriate correctional facility to serve their terms. The County Sheriffs and their deputies do not engage in typical law enforcement; their primary role is to provide enforcement services for the courts. Typical law enforcement, such as the enforcement of motor vehicle laws, investigation of crimes and routine policing patrols are performed by state, county, and municipal (town or city) police forces.\n\nThere is no appointed or elected Sheriff in the District of Columbia because, as a Federal City, it is in a unique and complicated position compared to other jurisdictions in the United States. As the District Government is both an agency of the Federal Government and a duly-elected Local Government under the D.C. Home Rule Act of 1973, there are many functions which would normally be reserved for the Office of the Sheriff, which are instead delegated to various other agencies. The United States Marshal Service, as an agent of the Federal Government officially handles most court and civil processes in the District of Columbia, while the District of Columbia Protective Services Police Department (PSPD) handles many other functions normally reserved for the Office of the Sheriff on behalf of the elected local government.\n\nFlorida sheriffs are one of a handful of \"constitutional\" Florida offices; that is, the position was established as part of the Florida State constitution, which specifies their powers and that they be elected in the general ballot. They serve as the chief law enforcement officer in their respective counties. The sheriff's office is responsible for law enforcement, corrections, and court services within the county. Although each county sheriff's office is an independent agency, they all wear the \"Florida's sheriff green\" uniform with similar badges and patches, and drive vehicles with green and gold designs, as prescribed in Florida State Statutes, with the exception of Duval and Miami-Dade.\nCollier County also does not wear green, they wear a grey uniform with green accents.\n\nMiami-Dade County (formerly Dade County) has two directors appointed by its county commission. In Miami-Dade County, the duties of the two appointed directors are split as follows:\n\nUpon the consolidation of Duval County and the City of Jacksonville governments in 1968, the Duval County Sheriff's Department and the Jacksonville Police Department were merged into a single unified law enforcement agency styled the Jacksonville Sheriff's Office (JSO). Commanded by the elected Sheriff of Duval County, and an appointed senior staff, its 1675 sworn members are referred to as \"police officers\" rather than deputies. All JSO police officers are also deputy sheriffs, in order to perform those duties Florida solely permits \"sheriffs and their deputies\" to perform, such as serving warrants. Similarly, the 800 members of the JSO's Department of Corrections are \"Correctional Officers\". Michael Williams is the current Sheriff.\n\nJSO police and corrections uniforms are dark navy blue, with silver devices for police and corrections officers and gold for supervisory and command personnel. Marked JSO vehicles are white with a broad gold stripe on each side with the word \"SHERIFF\" displayed in navy blue on each rear quarter-panel and \"POLICE\" in navy blue on the rear of the vehicle. In 2007, in terms of sworn officers, JSO was the 25th largest local police agency in the US, and the second largest in the state of Florida.\n\nThe Broward Sheriff's Office is currently under the direction of Sheriff Scott Israel and is a full-service law enforcement agency. The sheriff has an undersheriff and several district chiefs, also called district commanders. These individuals generally hold the title of \"captain.\" The Broward Sheriff's Office (BSO) also directs and oversees the fire/rescue/EMS operations for the county, referred to Broward County Fire Rescue (BSO or County Fire Rescue). Overseeing the operation of the Fire/Rescue/EMS Division is a fire chief and several deputy chiefs. BSO Fire Rescue serves unincorporated parts of the county as well as municipalities under contract for fire/rescue/EMS. BSO also operates several helicopters that serve a dual purpose. Each helicopter is suited for law enforcement duties as well as medical evacuation (MEDEVAC); the helicopters are staffed both by sworn deputies as well as a flight nurse or flight medic. BSO also has a professional Marine Patrol, motor (cycle) patrol and mounted (horse) patrol. The Broward Sheriff's office also contracts its law enforcement duties to municipalities that either have no local police department or have disbanded the local police department to be incorporated to BSO.\n\nSheriffs and his or her deputies and any other state certified peace officer may make an arrest on or off duty only after stating that they are peace officers in the state of Georgia. One of five county officials listed in the state constitution, sheriffs in Georgia are full-service county officers. Article IX, Section I of the constitution specifies that sheriffs \"shall be elected by the qualified voters of their respective counties for a term of four years and shall have such qualifications, powers and duties as provided by general law.\" However, several metropolitan counties have opted to form a county police to perform law enforcement functions leaving the sheriff to court functions. Others also have a county marshal who provide civil law enforcement. Even with other agencies in the same county, such as county police, the Sheriff is the Chief Law Enforcement Officer of each county. All law enforcement officers in Georgia have statewide jurisdiction if the crime happens in their immediate presence, but sheriffs have statewide jurisdiction also if the crime originated in their county. This means if someone breaks the law in one county and flees to another the sheriff can go anywhere inside the state to investigate the crime, make the arrest, and transport the accused back to the original county.\n\nMost of the qualifications, powers and duties of a sheriff in Georgia are detailed in Title 15, Chapter 16 of state law. Among other things, the law states that \"the sheriff is the basic law enforcement officer of the several counties of this state.\" Section 10 makes it clear that the sheriff has as much authority within municipalities as he does in unincorporated areas of his county, although many sheriffs refrain from performing standard law-enforcement functions within municipalities that have their own police department unless specifically requested to do so, or are required to do so in order to fulfill other provisions in state law.\n\nIn addition to law enforcement, sheriffs or their deputies execute and return all processes and orders of the courts; receive, transport, and maintain custody of incarcerated individuals for court; attend the place or places of holding elections; keep all courthouses, jails, public grounds, and other county property; maintain a register of all precious-metal dealers; enforce the collection of taxes that may be due to the state; as well as numerous other duties.\n\nThe office of Sheriff in Georgia existed in colonial times, and was included in the first official constitution of Georgia in 1777. There is no limit to how many terms a sheriff may serve. Title 15, Chapter 16, Section 40 of Georgia law specifies that, upon reaching 75 years of age, a sheriff who has held that office for 45 or more years automatically holds the honorary office of sheriff emeritus of the State of Georgia.\n\nIn metropolitan counties the sheriff's responsibilities have changed from that of being the sole law enforcement official for their counties, to performing only traditional court-related functions but with wide-ranging duties in coordination with a county police department in the suburbs of the state capital and major cities. When these county police departments were formed they assumed patrol, investigative, crime fighting, and transportation safety responsibilities.\n\nThere are two Georgia counties where the police department in the county seat and the local sheriff's office have merged most of their general operations: the Macon-Bibb County Sheriffs Office and the Augusta-Richmond County Sheriff's Office.\n\nHawaii has two sheriffs:\n\nThe state of Idaho consists of 44 counties. Each county in Idaho has an elected position for the Office of Sheriff which is the supreme law enforcement of a county. The Office of Sheriff is elected in 4 year terms.\n\nIn Illinois, the sheriff is the highest law enforcement authority in each county; however, incorporated municipalities, regardless of their sizes, are responsible for primary law enforcement within their jurisdiction. Therefore, the sheriffs' offices generally concentrate their police functions on unincorporated areas. In addition, many small municipalities pay the sheriff's office a portion of their law enforcement funds for the sheriff to act as their primary law enforcement: usually either overnight, which allows the local police department to operate with local officers during the day; or full-time, relieving the village of needing its own police department.\n\nIn addition to providing policing, the sheriff's office controls the county jail, guards the courthouse, acts as the process server for court documents such as summonses, and oversees evictions, even inside municipalities with their own police forces.\n\nThe Cook County Sheriff's Office is the second largest in the United States, with over 6,900 members. Due to its size, the Cook County Sheriff's Office divides its operations by task into 8 departments, the most recognizable of which is the Cook County Sheriff's Court Services Department. The much smaller Cook County Sheriff 's Police Department provides traditional police services in Unincorporated Cook County while the Department of Corrections operates the Cook County Department of Corrections.\n\nAll Cook County Sheriff's Deputies are Sworn and State certified Peace Officers with Police Powers regardless of their particular job function or title. Like other sheriffs' departments in Illinois, the Sheriff can provide all traditional law-enforcement functions, including county-wide patrol and investigations irrespective of municipal boundaries, even in the city of Chicago, but has traditionally limited its police patrol functions to unincorporated areas of the county because unincorporated areas are the primary jurisdiction of a Sheriff's Department in Illinois.\n\nThe Sheriff's Police patrol services are often not required in incorporated cities because the cities such as Chicago have established their own police departments. The 500-600 member Sheriff's Police Department would not have the personnel necessary to supply full police services to all incorporated areas in Cook County especially in a municipality such as Chicago.\n\nSheriff's deputies, outside the Sheriff's Police, provide the other services of the sheriff, such as guarding the various courthouses in Cook County, running and guarding the 9,800-detainee Cook County Jail, and overseeing other offender rehabilitation programs.\n\nIn Indiana, county sheriffs are elected to office and limited by the state constitution to serving no more than two four-year terms consecutively. Indiana sheriffs are empowered to make the arrest of persons who commit an offense within the sheriff's view, and take them before a court of the county having jurisdiction, and detain them in custody until the cause of the arrest has been investigated. They possess a general power to suppress breaches of the peace, calling the power of the county to the sheriff's aid if necessary; pursue and jail felons; serve and execute judicial process; attend and preserve order in all courts of the county; take care of the county jail and the prisoners there; take photographs, fingerprints, and other identification data as the sheriff shall prescribe of persons taken into custody for felonies or misdemeanors. They are required to provide an accounting to the state department of correction concerning the costs of incarcerating prisoners in the county.\n\nSomewhat unusual among the states, Indiana sheriffs are paid a salary out of which they must feed the prisoners in the county jails in their charge. They must account for the money they spend on prisoner's food; many counties' agreement with the sheriff's department allows the elected sheriff to keep the remaining funds allocated, which is contrary to state law. As a result, in many Indiana counties, the position of sheriff is one of the more lucrative of the elected officials, and the elections for sheriff are frequently hotly contested and draw larger numbers of candidates than most other county elective positions.\n\nIndiana Sheriffs may also appoint Special Deputies to act as private security police for businesses. These Special Deputies are only empowered during the course of their employment hours and do not have any police authority when not actively working. Special Deputies appointed who work for the Sheriff's Department or other municipal or governmental agencies are limited only by any written limitations and specific requirements imposed by the sheriff and signed by the Special Deputy\n\nAdditionally, the Indiana Supreme Court appoints a sheriff to maintain the safety of the judiciary and court facilities. The Supreme Court Sheriff also serves the papers and orders of the court.\n\nThe Elkhart County Sheriff's Department was the first Sheriff's office in the nation to receive accreditation through CALEA. (Commission on Accreditation for Law Enforcement Agencies)\n\nUnder an agreement between Indianapolis Mayor Bart Peterson and Marion County Sheriff Frank J. Anderson, the Sheriff was responsible for overseeing the Indianapolis Metropolitan Police Department following the Department's creation in January, 2007, until the agreement was rescinded by Peterson's successor as Mayor, Greg Ballard effective on February 29, 2008.\n\nThere are 99 Sheriffs in the State of Iowa; one for each county. Sheriffs are elected to four-year terms in office with no term limits. \nSheriff's Offices within Iowa have many functions: Patrol – which is the most visible and provides public safety activities and traffic enforcement duties; Jail – according to Iowa law, the Sheriff is responsible for the operation of the county jail. This responsibility includes the transportation of prisoners, the guarding of jail facilities, and in some counties, the securing of the county courthouse; Civil – according to Iowa law, the Sheriff is responsible for the civil process, which includes serving legal documents from the court and conducting evictions, sales and other civil related duties; and Detective – which investigates crimes and conducts follow up activities on cases.\n\nAlthough a primary responsibility of the Sheriff's Office is to provide law enforcement protection to the unincorporated and rural areas of the county, most Sheriff's Offices contract to provide law enforcement services to smaller incorporated communities that do not have their own police department. \nA Sheriff must be a certified peace officer through the Iowa Law Enforcement Academy as required under the Code of Iowa chapter 80B or must complete the basic training course within one year of taking office. Iowa deputy sheriffs are covered by civil service law which ensures that after their probationary periods they are only removed from office for just cause. Deputy Sheriffs must complete the state law enforcement academy within their first year of employment.\n\nIn accordance with state law, the Iowa State Sheriffs' and Deputies' Association establishes the uniform and vehicle standards for all 99 counties. As such, all uniforms and patrol vehicle graphics are the same for each of the 99 Sheriff's Offices throughout Iowa with the exception of the respective County's name appearing on their badges, uniform patches, and vehicle markings. Badge numbers for Sheriffs and Deputies consist of a prefix number, which represents the county number, followed by a one to three digit number, which represents the Sheriff's or Deputy's number within that specific office. The Sheriff's badge number in each county is always #1. So the Sheriff from Bremer County would have an ID number of 9-1 (9 is the county number for Bremer County and 1 is the number for the Sheriff).\n\nSheriffs are elected officials in their counties. They serve four-year terms between elections. There are 105 counties in Kansas but only 104 sheriffs. In the 1970s, Riley County merged the police departments within the county and created the Riley County Police Department. The RCPD is head by a Director who is hired by a police board. In Riley county, any duties that a county sheriff would perform are carried out by the RCPD. A small number of sheriffs in Kansas contract their police services to cities within their county boundaries that do not wish to manage their own police departments.\n\nSheriffs in Kentucky are elected for four-year terms and are not term limited. Sheriffs and deputies in Kentucky have the authority to patrol as well as power of arrest in all areas of their particular county, including incorporated cities. Most sheriffs, however, choose to patrol incorporated cities either only on the request of city officials or in the case of a major emergency. Sheriff's deputies will jointly patrol unincorporated areas of their county with the Kentucky State Police. In addition, sheriffs in Kentucky are responsible for court security, serving court papers and transporting prisoners. They are also responsible for collecting taxes on real estate and tangible property. Also, Kentucky law states that only the county coroner, also an elected peace officer, can serve the sitting sheriff with a state criminal court process or place him/her under arrest (any peace officer, however, can arrest the coroner).\n\nOne of the main differences between Kentucky sheriffs and sheriffs in other states is that Kentucky sheriffs do not run the county jails. County jails are run by a separate elected official called a jailer who has the authority to employ deputy jailers. The sheriff's office, however, may be asked by the jailer to assist with jail security in the event of an emergency. The only exception is in counties containing first class cities or counties with consolidated city/county governments which may merge their offices of sheriff and jailer and retain the office of sheriff to fill both roles. In these cases the sheriff can then relinquish responsibility for the jail back to the county or consolidated government to operate. This is the case in both Jefferson County and Fayette County, which are both the only counties with first class cities (Louisville & Lexington respectively) and are the only counties with merged city/county governments.\n\nDeputy sheriffs, like municipal police officers, must be trained and certified as peace officers through the Kentucky Justice and Public Safety Cabinet Law Enforcement Training Center at Eastern Kentucky University in Richmond, unless they have previously completed another recognized police academy. To maintain certification, all certified peace officers must complete forty hours of in-service training annually. Sheriffs themselves, however, are not mandated to be trained and certified as the job requirements for sheriff are described in the Kentucky Constitution, rather than the Kentucky Revised Statutes. Many sheriffs, however, do choose to receive this training if they had not received it as a law enforcement officer prior to their election.\n\nThe Louisiana constitution establishes the office of sheriff in each parish, each elected to a term of four years (Const. Art. V, §27). The sheriff is the chief law enforcement officer in the parish and has both criminal and civil jurisdiction. The sheriff is in charge of all criminal investigations and is responsible for executing court orders and process. The sheriff is the collector of ad valorem taxes and other taxes and license fees as provided by law and is the keeper of the public jail in the parish. Article V, Section 32 provides for the offices of civil sheriff and criminal sheriff in Orleans Parish. \"State & Local Government in Louisiana,\" Chapter 3 \"Local Government,\" Part. II. Constitutional Offices. The office is so powerful that Harry Lee—elected seven times as sheriff of Jefferson Parish, and head of a powerful southern Louisiana political machine—said, \"Why would I want to be governor when I can be king?\"\n\nOrleans Parish now has one sheriff Marlin N. Gusman, with the new Orleans Parish Sheriff's Office combining the following two offices into one office in accordance with Louisiana Revised Statute 33:1500. This statute required the Orleans Parish criminal and civil sheriffs' offices to be merged into one office by 2010 as a result of legislation passed to merge the Criminal and Civil Courts into one consolidated district court, as in all other Louisiana parishes.\n\nThe duties of the office of the sheriff are corrections, service of process and Patrol. The Sheriff operates the county jails and transports prisoners. The Sheriffs Office provides police patrol, responds to calls for assistance and provides investigative services to towns not large enough to maintain their own police departments. Some towns may contract with a Sheriff's Department for additional or more intensive coverage than would normally be allocated. The Sheriff's Department and Maine State Police share patrol and investigative duties in towns without police departments. The Sheriff and their deputies have full police powers within their respective counties.\nIn Maryland, per the State Constitution, each county shall have an elected sheriff that serves a term of four years with all deputy sheriffs required to be sworn law enforcement officials with full arrest authority by the state's governing agency, the Maryland Police and Correctional Training Commission. In all counties (except for Anne Arundel, Baltimore, Baltimore City, Howard, Montgomery, and Prince George's), the County Sheriff is the primary law enforcement agency charged with investigating crimes, enforcing traffic laws, enforcing orders of the court, and transporting, housing, and controlling the county jail inmate population.\n\nIn Anne Arundel County, Baltimore County, Baltimore City, Howard County, and Montgomery County the Sheriff's Office still retains its law enforcement authority in all areas, however, their duties are strictly limited to enforcing orders of the court except in rare instances where called upon by the County Police or other law enforcement to assist. In Prince George's County, the Sheriff's Office and the County Police share the responsibility of county law enforcement. The Prince George's County Police still enforce the vast majority of crimes and traffic laws. Along with the traditional duties of enforcing all orders of the court, the Prince George's County Sheriff's Office responds to all domestic calls for service within the county's District III, is a part of the Homeland Security Task Force, US Marshal Taskforce, and the FBI Task Force. Within Maryland, the size of each county's Sheriff's Office varies greatly from forces of approximately 30 sworn to well over 500 in the more populated counties.\n\nMost Massachusetts counties currently exist only as geographic regions and have little county government. Most former county functions were assumed by state agencies in the late 1990s-early 2000. Each county still elects their own sheriff to a six-year term.\n\nThe duties of the office of the sheriff in Massachusetts are to primarily maintain custody of a county jail and house of correction, to serve civil process, and to transport inmates to and from courts and other facilities. Although they have police powers, their duties are to generally support local law enforcement, and they do not usually patrol. The 14 sheriffs in MA are considered to be the chief law enforcement officers in their counties. In some counties, such as Plymouth, Norfolk, and Barnstable, the sheriffs maintain law enforcement services such as K-9, Criminal Investigation, and Tactical Response, Gang Enforcement, and Warrant Teams. Deputies are often seen supporting local police in traffic control and at large events like county fairs and sports events.\n\nIn Michigan, sheriffs are constitutionally mandated, elected county officials. All sheriff's offices have general law enforcement powers throughout their entire county, as well as traditional judicial-process, court-protection (bailiff) and jail-operation powers. Sheriff's offices may primarily patrol areas of their county without municipal police services; however, they are free to patrol anywhere in their county, including cities, villages and charter townships that have their own police services. Occasionally, this results in conflict over jurisdiction between municipal police agencies and sheriff's offices.\n\nIn some counties (primarily urban counties such as Oakland, Macomb, Wayne, Kent, Genesee, Saginaw, Bay, Midland and Washtenaw), sheriff's offices provide dedicated police services under contract to some municipalities, in lieu of those municipalities providing their own police services. (Michigan law provides for or requires municipalities, depending upon their structure, to provide dedicated police services.)\n\nThe sheriffs of all 83 Michigan counties are members of the Michigan Sheriffs' Association. This professional organization, formed in 1877, promulgates standardized insignias that are used, to varying degrees, by all Michigan sheriff's offices on their uniforms and vehicles.\n\nNotably, the Michigan State Police have general law-enforcement powers throughout the entire state. Thus, all Michigan residents have at least two levels of general police services (state police and sheriff's offices), while residents of a municipality that has its own police service have a third level of general police service.\n\nMichigan law mandates the county sheriff be responsible for execution of all civil judgments by the circuit court, be primary law enforcement of all inland lakes via a marine division and run the county jail. The law also mandates the sheriff's \"office\" be established in the county seat.\n\nCurrently the Oakland County Sheriff's Office is the largest full service sheriff's office in the state.\n\nIn order to be elected to the office of County Sheriff, the candidate must be actively employed in a law enforcement vocation. The Hennepin County Sheriff's Office is the largest Sheriff's office in Minnesota, serving roughly one million residents. \n\nSheriffs in the State of Mississippi are elected to four (4) year terms, with no limits on the number of terms that may be served. The Sheriff's office works to prevent crime and build community safety through education, investigation and enforcement. The sheriff's duties generally fall into two broad categories:\n\nThere are 114 counties and one independent city (City of St. Louis) in Missouri. Sheriffs in Missouri are elected to a four (4) year term. The sheriff and his deputies may conduct a variety of duties within their respective jurisdictions. Section 57.100 of the Missouri Revised Statutes states that \"Every sheriff shall quell and suppress assaults and batteries, riots, routs, affrays and insurrections; shall apprehend and commit to jail all felons and traitors, and execute all process directed to him by legal authority, including writs of replevin, attachments and final process issued by circuit and associate circuit judges.\"\n\nGenerally, the sheriff is responsible for police patrol in unincorporated areas of the county, but retains full jurisdiction within the entire county. Generally, city or village police handle general law enforcement duties in incorporated areas. In addition, the sheriff is responsible for court security, serving court documents, operating the jail (some jurisdictions have separate county correctional departments), executing warrants, issuing concealed weapon carry permits, and other duties. In the Independent City of St. Louis, the sheriff's duties include court security for the Circuit Court, transporting prisoners between the Courts and detention facilities, serving court papers and eviction notices, and issuing concealed carry permits. Patrol duties are handled by the City of St. Louis Police Department.\n\nSome sheriff's departments provide School Resource Deputies to public school districts under contract with the local school board. These deputies not only perform law enforcement duties, but act as mentors and instructors in safety and security related matters.\n\nIn addition, sheriffs may utilize SWAT or STAR teams, consisting of specially trained deputies who may handle hostage situations, security details, or special events. K-9 units, boat patrols, air patrols, traffic units, reserve units, and Emergency Management Division units are just some of the other specialized divisions that may be formed by the sheriff.\n\nSince January 1, 2010, Missouri Revised Statutes 57.010 states that county sheriffs must have a Missouri Peace Officer's License before they may perform any law enforcement functions. Deputy Sheriffs are considered law enforcement officers, and must be certified by The Department of Public Safety's Peace Officer Standards and Training (POST) Program.\n\nAll 56 Montana counties have sheriff's offices responsible for general law-enforcement functions in areas other than those covered by local city police departments. In larger cities sheriff's offices perform mainly judicial duties such as serving warrants and providing courtroom security.The Sheriff, as the county's chief law enforcement officer, has jurisdiction anywhere in the county, including municipalities, where the Sheriff's Office provides assistance and support to local law enforcement agencies. Sheriff's deputies in Montana are certified by The Department of Public Safety's Peace Officer Standards and Training (POST) Program. Sheriff's deputies have the full powers of arrest and can enforce all of state laws more than any other law enforcement officer in the state. Examples include fish and game violations, department of transportation regulations, department of livestock.\n\nAll Nebraska counties have sheriff's offices responsible for general law-enforcement functions in areas other than those covered by local city police departments. Sheriff's deputies in Nebraska are certified by the state law-enforcement commission and have full arrest powers.\n\nThere are 16 sheriff's departments in Nevada, and two of them are unique, as the Carson City Sheriff's Office is a result of the 1967 merger of the old Carson City Police Department and the Ormsby County Sheriff's Department, as well as the Las Vegas Metropolitan Police Department which is the result of the 1973 merger of the Clark County Sheriff's Office and the old Las Vegas Police Department.\n\nThe New Hampshire position of High Sheriff dates back to pre-Revolutionary War days. Today, there are 10 counties and 10 High Sheriffs in New Hampshire. The ten sheriffs and their deputies are the highest ranking and most powerful uniformed law-enforcement officers in the state. The state constitution gives the sheriff of each county full law-enforcement authority throughout the county. In 1911, this authority was expanded by the state legislature to include the entire state. Sheriffs are elected to two-year terms without term limits. The sheriff is responsible for patrol duties, civil process, transport of prisoners, and criminal and civil warrants. Most county sheriff's offices provide dispatch service for many of the county's communities. Sheriffs are also responsible for the security in all the county courthouses throughout the state. Finally, sheriffs are responsible for the prisoners in the local district courts throughout the state.\n\nSheriffs in New Jersey are sworn law-enforcement officers with full arrest powers. They also serve writs and other legal process and perform court-security functions. In some counties, responsibility for the county jail rests with the sheriff's office; in other counties, this responsibility rests with a separate corrections department. In most counties, the police functions provided by the sheriff's office are limited to patrolling county property such as parks, courts, county facilities, and roads; plus, providing specialized units and support to local police, e.g., bomb squads, emergency response (SWAT) and investigative units. Essex County Sheriff's Bureau of Narcotics is featured in the film \"American Gangster\" which stars Denzel Washington and Russell Crowe. The Essex County Sheriff and the Hudson County Sheriff, also holds the unique title of the Office of Emergency Management and serves a highly populated urban area including Newark, in Essex County, which is New Jersey's largest city and Jersey City, in Hudson County, which is New Jersey's second largest city.\n\nNote: Union County also has a separate county-wide police force, which fulfills many of the police functions provided by sheriff's offices in other counties.\n\nEssentially, all areas of New Jersey are incorporated municipalities and the vast majority have their own local police agencies that provide general law enforcement. The New Jersey State Police provides primary law enforcement in only a few rural areas in Southern and North Western NJ that lack local police.\n\nNew Mexico County Sheriffs are regular law enforcement officials and have the authority to perform law enforcement duties at any location within their county of jurisdiction, but they primarily focus on unincorporated rural areas, while leaving law enforcement functions within the limits of incorporated municipalities to town or city police departments. Sheriffs occasionally assist local police departments with law enforcement in incorporated cities and towns, particularly when such assistance is requested by local police.\n\nLike most other states, sheriffs and deputy sheriffs in the State of New York are regular law-enforcement officers with full police powers and duties such as patrol work, prisoner transport, civil process, and court security.\n\nMany sheriff's offices in New York State also have canine, marine, aviation and SWAT units, as well as various other specialized units. In several sheriff's offices throughout the state, an undersheriff is often the warden of the county jail or second-in-command of the entire agency.\n\nUntil recently, most sheriff's officers wore a standardized uniform (black pants and shirt with dark gray straw Stetson hat in the summer and a black felt Stetson hat in the winter with a black Class A jacket for the dress uniform and a black leather jacket for the winter) and all patrol vehicles were marked in the same manner (white with red stripes, etc.). Several counties have moved away from these practices. Patrol cars in these counties have different vehicle markings, and deputy sheriffs wear different uniforms. Some examples are Ulster County, which has dark gray uniforms similar to the New York State Police; and Warren County, whose deputy sheriffs wear tan shirts with dark brown pants. Dutchess County Deputy Sheriffs wear tactical Class B uniforms consisting of black shirts and black pants and a Class A uniform with light blue shirts with darker blue pants. In Suffolk County, the sheriff vehicles are black and white (similar to the police/sheriff vehicle scheme used in California). In New York City, deputy sheriffs wear a uniform very similar to sworn NYPD personnel. Ontario County Sheriff's deputies wear the traditional uniform; black pants, black shirt with brass buttons, and a black stetson.\n\nCurrently there are 57 county sheriff's offices, and one city sheriff's office (see below) which covers the five boroughs (counties) of New York City. The largest sheriff's office in New York State is the Erie County Sheriff's Office, followed by the Suffolk County Sheriff's Department with around 275 deputies and 900 correction officers.\n\nSheriffs in New York State (outside of New York City, Nassau and Westchester Counties) are elected for three or four-year terms, depending on the vote of the county government, specifically the county legislature. The Sheriff of New York City is appointed by the mayor (see below) and the Sheriffs of Nassau County and Westchester County are appointed by the county executives of those respective counties.\n\nThe City of New York, although it comprises five counties, currently has a single Sheriff's Office, part of the New York City Department of Finance. The Sheriff's Office is headed by a sheriff, appointed by the mayor.\n\nAs the primary civil law enforcement agency of the City of New York, the Sheriff's Office typically acts as the enforcer of civil judgments won by the city against individuals and businesses. The agency also enforces judgments on behalf of private petitioners' as well. Though the sheriff and his/her deputies retain their status as peace officers/law enforcement officers, traditional patrol and other law enforcement functions are handled by other departments - the NYPD oversees law enforcement; the Department of Corrections manages the city's jails; the Office of the Medical Examiner handles the coroner functions; and Court Officers handle security for the courts themselves and in lock-ups within court buildings. The New York City Sheriff's Office does provide criminal investigation services in cases involving city tax and deed fraud, as well as illegal tobacco distribution and smuggling.\n\nThe sheriff or his/her deputies serve processes and writs; seize property and handle evictions pursuant to court orders; execute mental hygiene and family court arrest warrants, along with any other type of arrest ordered by the courts and directed to the sheriff; enforce traffic and parking laws, and perform other law enforcement/peacekeeping functions necessary to maintain public order. \nThe Sheriff's Office has five county/borough field offices and several citywide units. The agency has five undersheriffs, each in charge of a county/borough. Approximately 150 deputy sheriffs of various ranks are employed by the agency, along with an assortment of civilian support staff.\n\nThe sheriff, undersheriffs, and deputy sheriffs of the City of New York have peace officer powers and are authorized to carry firearms both on and off duty (as per the New York State Criminal Procedure Law).\n\nThe Sheriff's Office is not to be confused with New York City Marshals, who are private businessmen licensed by the city and authorized by the courts as independent public officers to be hired by individuals and businesses to enforce civil judgments. New York City Marshals are not city employees; they keep a portion of what they seize as profit instead of collecting a salary from the city. New York City Marshals are not peace officers.\n\nThe office of sheriff is constitutionally mandated in North Carolina. It is an elected law enforcement office.\n\nThe sheriff has duties in all three branches of law enforcement: Policing, Courts/Criminal Justice and Corrections/Jail. The Office of the Sheriff is the primary law enforcement agency for the unincorporated areas of North Carolina's counties. The Sheriff, as the county's chief law enforcement officer, has jurisdiction anywhere in the county, including municipalities, where the Sheriff's Office provides assistance and support to local law enforcement agencies.\n\nLaw enforcement duties of this Office include patrolling the counties, preventing crime, investigating violations of the law, and apprehending law violators. In addition, support services, such as communications, evidence, and property control services are provided. The Sheriff is also responsible for keeping and maintaining the common jail of the county, which currently consists of separate detention facilities at the County Public Safety Centers and the Detention Annex if required by the counties. The Office is responsible for transporting prisoners for court appearances.\n\nIn the area of judicial services, the Office of the Sheriff serves as the enforcement arm of the North Carolina General Court of Justice. The Office serves civil and criminal processes issued by the courts, which often includes arresting persons and bringing them before the courts, as well as the seizure and sale of personal and real property to satisfy court judgments. The Sheriff is responsible for courtroom security in the District and Superior courtrooms in the county.\n\nOther miscellaneous duties of the Office mandated by the State include pistol purchase permits, concealed handgun permits, parade and picketing permits, and maintaining registries of sexual offenders and domestic violators.\n\nIn North Carolina, the sheriff is elected to a 4-year term, and may not be a felon. A county sheriff is responsible not to county authorities but to the citizens of the county. County governments are responsible for providing funding to the Sheriff's Office.\n\nThe Sheriff of the NC county is the highest ranking law enforcement officer in each of the state's 100 counties and has complete at-will power to hire and terminate personnel at his-her will and pleasure. Deputies and jailers serve a term concurrent with the sheriff, not to exceed 4 years and must be re-sworn every 4 years. Jailers are custodial officers and must complete a 160-hour jailer training course, though some are also dually trained and sworn as deputies. Deputies must complete the state mandated 600+ hour Basic Law Enforcement Training (BLET) course, or do a \"re-entry\" or reentry syllabus for former or lateral (out of state officers). Other than the reentry option, the training for deputies is the same as for police officers, and other peace officers to be certified. The sheriff however, can hire deputies and has one year to get them trained and certified. This allows a sheriff who comes in office to, if he-she chooses, to replace an entire or partial department with untrained appointees and there is then one year to get the new deputies trained and certified. Deputies are a political extension of the sheriff and have no independent statutory power and when an arrest or action is made in an official capacity, it is done in the name of the sheriff as a de facto power of attorney. This is why legally, a sheriff, unlike a police chief, can dismiss arrests and charges filed by deputies for any or no reason, and this is done frequently for political purposes, Police chiefs cannot do so, as the officers are a separate and distinct legal entity named in legislation,\n\nExceptions to the County Sheriff in North Carolina are that of two of North Carolina's Counties, Gaston and Mecklenburg. These Counties have police forces for the whole county, as well as a Sheriff Department that is responsible for the jails, courts and civil process, in addition to gun permits, sex offender database and other specific sheriff duties.\n\nIn Gaston County, the Gaston County Police is responsible for county-wide police services for the incorporated and unincorporated areas of the county, while overlapping with City and Township police. The Gaston County Sheriffs Department is responsible for the jails and the court system in Gastonia, the county seat.\n\nIn Charlotte, the Charlotte-Mecklenburg Police Department is responsible for the incorporated areas of Charlotte, and the unincorporated areas of the county, while the Mecklenberg County Sheriff's Office is responsible for the jails, courts, and warrant service.\n\nSheriffs in North Dakota are the chief law enforcement officers in the 53 counties. They are elected to four year terms. Officers for the department have full arrest powers and general enforcement, including enforcing all state and local laws, maintaining jail facilities, transporting prisoners and mentally ill patients, serving legal papers, holding public sales of property under court orders and attending district court.\n\nOfficers service rural areas. In recent years, the decreasing tax base has led many small towns to contract with the counties for law enforcement service.\n\nUntil Ohio achieved statehood in 1803, the position of Sheriff was filled through appointments made at the pleasure of the Territorial Governor, Arthur St. Clair. The first Sheriff on the record in Ohio and the Northwest Territory was Colonel Ebenezer Sproat, who served fourteen years. At the time he was appointed in 1788, Colonel Sproat's jurisdiction covered all of Washington County; this enormous area of land then included all of eastern Ohio from the Ohio River to Lake Erie. The \"First to Serve Since 1788\" motto on Ohio sheriff vehicles refers to Sheriff Sproat's service.\n\nAfter statehood, only three public offices in Ohio were filled via the electoral-process system. The position of Sheriff was one of them. Through this new system, William Skinner became the first elected Sheriff in the Buckeye State. Since the early 19th century, Ohio sheriffs have been elected at the county level by the people they serve. The term of office for county sheriffs in Ohio is four years.\n\nIn each of the 88 counties of Ohio, the sheriff is the chief law-enforcement officer. His primary duties are to provide common pleas court services and corrections on a countywide basis, and full police protection to the unincorporated areas of the county. However, he also maintains full police jurisdiction in all municipalities, townships, and villages. In an effort to become consistent on a statewide level, Ohio sheriffs and deputies wear a standardized uniform, and all patrol vehicles are marked in the same manner.\n\nWithin Ohio, sheriff's offices have probably one of the most extensive sets of responsibilities to those they serve. By statute they must provide the following: line law enforcement; court security and service of papers; jail operations; extradition process; and transportation of prisoners.\n\nOklahoma's Sheriffs, whose primary role is as an officer of the court, provide full services, that is, providing traditional law-enforcement functions such as countywide patrol and investigations. As the chief peace officer of each of Oklahoma's 77 counties, the Sheriffs serve and execute all process, writs, precepts and orders issued or made by lawful authorities, namely the courts. The Sheriff's office also provides security for judges and courthouses. The Sheriffs are in charge of and have custody over the jail of their county, and all the prisoners in the jail are under the Sheriff's supervision, with the Sheriff serving as the county's jailer.\n\nUnder their law-enforcement responsibilities, the Sheriffs are responsible for ensuring that the peace is preserved, riots are suppressed, and that unlawful assemblies and insurrections are controlled throughout their county. To ensure justice is administered, the Sheriff is empowered to apprehend any person charged with a felony or breach of the peace and may attend any court within the county. The Sheriffs are also empowered to conscript any person or persons of their county that they may deem necessary to fulfill their duties.\n\nGeneral duties of sheriff\n\nThe sheriff is the chief executive officer and conservator of the peace of the county. In the execution of the office of sheriff, it is the sheriff's duty to:\n\n(1) Arrest and commit to prison all persons who break the peace, or attempt to break it, and all persons guilty of public offenses.\n\n(2) Defend the county against those who, by riot or otherwise, endanger the public peace or safety.\n\n(3) Execute the process and orders of the courts of justice or of judicial officers, when delivered to the sheriff for that purpose, according to law.\n\n(4) Execute all warrants delivered to the sheriff for that purpose by other public officers, according to law.\n\n(5) Attend, upon call, the Supreme Court, Court of Appeals, Oregon Tax Court, circuit court, justice court or county court held within the county, and to obey its lawful orders or directions. [Amended by 1985 c.339 §1]\n\nThere are 36 counties in Oregon with 36 elected sheriffs, each holding a four-year term of office. Sheriffs in Oregon provide full-service law enforcement, enforcing all state and local laws, maintaining active traffic safety and enforcement units, managing the county jail, providing marine boating safety patrols, being responsible for county Search and Rescue, and providing law enforcement services for the courts. Many Oregon sheriffs have dedicated specialized teams that include traffic safety, SWAT, interagency drug teams, K9, and rescue.\n\nPennsylvania sheriffs legally have all traditional law enforcement powers. But, since the establishment of the Pennsylvania State Police in 1905, in practice most of the 67 counties' sheriff's offices perform traditional court-related functions, transporting prisoners to and from court, etc.\n\nThe status of Pennsylvania's county sheriffs was in a legal gray area for many years. While sheriffs routinely provided court security, prisoner transport, civil process services and bench warrant arrests, it was unclear whether they had law-enforcement powers. From the 1970s through the early 1990s, a number of defendants charged by deputy sheriffs with crimes attempted to suppress the results of their arrests, on the basis that the deputies were not \"bona fide\" law-enforcement officers.\n\nIn \"Commonwealth of Pennsylvania vs. Leet\", a 1991 decision by the Pennsylvania Superior Court, a 2–1 majority of the Court held that deputy sheriffs had no law-enforcement powers. That decision was reversed by the Pennsylvania Supreme Court in a 1994 decision by Justice John P. Flaherty. He held that sheriffs have the power to enforce motor-vehicle laws (at issue in this case) for violations committed in their presence. In his majority opinion, Justice Flaherty explored the historical roots of the office of Sheriff in the United Kingdom and the United States and concluded that the powers developed as a matter of common law:\n\nSheriffs and their deputies in Pennsylvania can therefore make arrests for felonies and breaches of the peace committed in their presence. They are required by statute to be trained and certified by the Pennsylvania Commission on Crime and Delinquency.\n\nIn the early 21st century, every Pennsylvania county has a Sheriff's Office. Most are still elected, but Northampton and Luzerne counties have adopted home rule charters that stipulate the Sheriff will be an appointed position and no longer elected. This has led to some overlap in places such as Allegheny County, where the County Police are responsible for supporting local law-enforcement and patrolling county-owned property, including the Pittsburgh International Airport.\n\nSimilarly, the Delaware County Courthouse and Park Police Department provides security police functions. With the newly reestablished law enforcement powers of the County Sheriff, however, this has led to some power struggles.\n\nAs part of the government of the City of Philadelphia, which encompasses the county, the Sheriff is elected for a four-year term. The Sheriff provides basic court-related services such as transporting prisoners, providing courthouse security, and other duties with regard to service of process and summonses that are issued by county and state courts. The sheriff also often conducts auction sales of real property in foreclosure in many jurisdictions. The office is often also empowered to conduct seizures of personal property (chattel) to satisfy a judgment. The Philadelphia Sheriff's Department has indicated its intention to carry out community law-enforcement while continuing its statutory duties.\n\nThe Rhode Island Division of Sheriffs is a statewide law enforcement agency under the Department of Public Safety. Division personnel fall under the command of the Chief Sheriff, currently David M. DeCesare. The Division is responsible for \"courtroom security and cellblocks in all state courthouses, training of personnel, extradition and civil service, and transportation of individuals charged with crimes.\"\n\nIn the state of South Dakota, the Sheriff's duties, by law, are as follows: \"Sheriff to preserve the peace--Apprehension of felons--Execution of \nprocess. The sheriff shall keep and preserve the peace within his county, for which purpose he is empowered to call to his aid such persons or power of \nhis county as he may deem necessary. He must pursue and apprehend all felons, and must execute all writs, warrants, and other process from any court or \nmagistrate which shall be directed to him by legal authority.\" Every county in the state of South Dakota is required to hold an election for Sheriff every 4 (four) years. There is no limit to how many consecutive 4 (four) year terms an individual can serve as Sheriff. Sheriff Departments in South Dakota typically rely on the assistance of the South Dakota Highway Patrol for SWAT and high risk warrant services. The Sheriff in all counties has law enforcement powers, they also serve court documents both civil and criminal, provide courthouse security, conduct investigations, and usually operate a county jail. Some counties contract-out jail space for other counties to use. (Fees are usually determined by the number of inmates housed per day.) Sheriffs are required by state law to be paid a minimum annual salary. The law and guidelines are shown below.Sheriffs' salary schedule. The board of county commissioners shall establish, by resolution, the salary payable to the sheriff. The salary payable may not be less than the following schedule based upon the most recent decennial federal census of population of counties.\nThe board of county commissioners may not decrease the salary of the sheriff during consecutive terms of office of the sheriff. Any sheriff having responsibility for managing a full-time jail shall receive an additional ten percent added to the base salary listed in this section.\n\nThe Tennessee Constitution requires each county to elect a sheriff to a four-year term. In all Tennessee counties except one, the sheriff is an official with full police powers, county-wide, although Tennessee sheriffs and their deputies generally perform the patrol portion of their duties in unincorporated areas of their counties if the municipalities have their own police departments. The exception to the rule is Davidson County. In Davidson County, the sheriff has the primary responsibility of serving civil process and jail functions without the common law powers to keep the peace. Protection of the peace is instead the responsibility of the Metropolitan Nashville Police Department under the county's Metropolitan Charter. The Metropolitan Charter did not remove the Davidson County Sheriff's status as a Law Enforcement officer however. It is simply not his or her primary function as it was prior to the consolidation of the City of Nashville and Davidson County.\nThe Texas Constitution (Article 5, Section 23) provides for the election of a sheriff in each one of the 254 counties. Currently, the term of office for Texas sheriffs is four years. However, when vacancies arise, the commissioners court of the respective county may appoint a replacement to serve out the remaining term.\n\nIn Texas, sheriffs and their deputies are fully empowered peace officers with county-wide jurisdiction and thus, may legally exercise their authority in unincorporated and incorporated areas of a county. However, they primarily provide law enforcement services for only the unincorporated areas of a county and do not normally patrol in incorporated cities which have their own police agencies. Sheriffs and their deputies have statewide warrantless arrest powers for any criminal offense (except for certain traffic violations) committed within their presence or view. They may also serve arrest warrants anywhere in the state.\n\nThe duties of a Texas Sheriff generally include providing law enforcement services to residents, keeping the county jail, providing bailiffs for the county and district courts within the county, and in some cases serving process issued therefrom (the office of the constable is responsible for most civil process).\n\nThe Harris County Sheriff's Office is the largest sheriff's office in Texas and fourth largest in the country, with a sworn employee count of 2,537 in 2005. In 2000, 60% of deputies were assigned to jail operations, 26% to patrol, 12% to investigations, and 1% to process serving.\n\nThe smallest sheriff's office in Texas is in Borden County, with a sheriff and a deputy.\n\nThe oldest sheriff's office in Utah was the Salt Lake County Sheriff's Office, which dated back to shortly after the arrival of the Mormon pioneers in 1847. The department's patrol division was disbanded on midnight of Friday, January 1, 2010 and replaced by the Unified Police Department of Greater Salt Lake (UPD).\n\nSheriffs in Utah are still elected by all voting residents within their county. The sheriff must be a Utah State Certified Peace Officer when elected or must be certified shortly after the election. All peace officers in Utah are certified by the Utah Peace Officer's Academy, known as POST (Peace Officer Standardization and Training). The sheriff's are responsible to protect the courts, with bailiffs employed for that purpose. They also operate the jail within their county, with corrections officers. The sheriff's deputies provide routine law enforcement services to the unincorporated portions of the county and are considered police officers.\n\nA portion of the sheriff's office carries out civil process at the direction of the courts. All Utah State Certified Peace Officers have authority to arrest throughout the State of Utah. They may also arrest outside the state, for crimes committed within the state. Persons arrested by Utah Peace Officers outside of the State of Utah must turned over to local authorities for extradition. Utah Peace Officers may return arrestees without extradition, if they are arrested following a hot pursuit which exits the state.\n\nSheriff responsibilities in Vermont include furnishing security for fourteen county superior courts and two district courts, serving civil and criminal papers, transportation of prisoners, patrolling towns, motor vehicle and snowmobile enforcement, and furnishing security for special events.\n\nThe position of sheriff is established by the Virginia Constitution, with the sheriff and his deputies having both civil and concurrent criminal jurisdiction countywide. Sheriffs terms are for four years and are not term limited. Unlike other states, the Sheriff is not necessarily the chief law enforcement officer; in a city that has a police department, a Chief of Police has that distinction according to statute. However, a sheriff is chief law enforcement officer in any county. In such areas, the Chief of Police is the highest-ranking officer, such as in incorporated towns or cities.\n\nVirginia is unique in that all cities are independent jurisdictions and are completely separate from any county. Thus, most cities (with few exceptions such as Poquoson and Franklin) have elected sheriffs, most of which focus on court and jail operations. By law, sheriffs can enforce all the laws of the Commonwealth in the jurisdiction they serve. Some city sheriffs (such as Portsmouth and Newport News) also work alongside the city police in responding to calls and enforcing traffic violations.\n\nIn cities such as Poquoson and Franklin, these cities grew out of a county and still use that county's sheriff for civil process and court services. Those sheriff's offices still have concurrent jurisdiction in those cities but do not generally exercise them, allowing the city police to handle criminal/traffic matters.\n\nAll sheriffs are responsible for civil process, jails, serving levies and holding sheriff's sales to satisfy judgements.\n\nSince 1983, when the General Assembly passed legislation allowing counties to establish police departments by referendum, only seven counties have done so. In most of those counties, such as Henrico and Chesterfield, the sheriffs offices exercise criminal enforcement authority sharing it with the county police, but generally let the county police investigate most crime.\n\nThe city of Williamsburg incorporated as a city from James City County in 1699. Prior to 1983, the sheriff's office handled all police functions for James City County while a sheriff performed court/jail functions for Williamsburg. When James City County established its county police department, that department operated under the county sheriff for two years before becoming a separate agency. Williamsburg's sheriff's office comprised only 8 personnel, it eventually merged with the county's sheriff's office to form the Williamsburg-James City County Sheriff's office.\n\nIn the early 1990s the General Assembly mandated the uniforms for all sheriffs as being dark brown shirts with tan pants that have a brown stripe. Sheriff's Office vehicles were to be dark brown with a five-point star on the front doors and \"Sheriff's Office\" on the trunk. The five-point star must have the jurisdiction's name in a half circle on the star and \"Sheriff's Office\" in a half circle under that.\n\nIn the early first decade of the 21st century, legislation was passed to allow sheriffs to purchase white vehicles (if agreed to by the city or county), and allowing sheriffs' deputies to wear any color uniform the sheriff chose. Sheriffs' vehicles still must have the star on the front doors and markings on the trunk as before.\n\nThe Sheriff's Office, in conjunction with local police departments, assist with controlling traffic, issuing traffic summonses, and working with state and local law-enforcement agencies. Additionally, sheriff's deputies aid the county police, the United States Marshals Service, and the Federal Bureau of Investigation in a joint fugitive task force that provides apprehension and arrest of felons who face current warrants. Sheriffs are also solely responsible for executing detention orders for those who are ordered to receive mental health care.\n\nDeputy sheriffs are the only members of law enforcement that can be dual-certified in civil process/courts and basic law enforcement. There is no distinction made by title, all those who work for a sheriff are deputies. Police officers are prohibited from performing civil process or court duties. All deputies and police officers must meet state certification standards as set by DCJS (Department of Criminal Justice Services).\n\nBy law, sheriffs are not elected at the same time. County sheriffs are sworn into office on even-numbered years; city sheriffs are sworn into office on odd-numbered years. All deputies must be re-sworn after each election. Sheriffs have complete authority to hire and fire as they see fit; deputy sheriffs serve at the sole pleasure of the sheriff. Sheriff's offices are completely funded by the state, unless a county or city wishes to supplement with funding.\n\nIn Washington, each sheriff of the thirty-nine counties is an elected official serving a four-year term.\n\nThe voters of Pierce County voted to pass Charter Amendment 1 on November 7, 2006 to change the sheriff's position from appointed to elected. The first sheriff's election in 30 years was held in 2008.\n\nThe sheriff is the chief law-enforcement officer of a county and is empowered to enforce the criminal laws of the State of Washington and the county their office represents, as well as to serve or execute civil processes (such as court orders, evictions, property foreclosures, tax warrants); to maintain county jails; to provide courthouse security; and to provide general law enforcement in unincorporated areas. In many cities, police services are contracted to the sheriff's department in lieu of a city police department.\n\nThe King County Sheriff is the largest sheriff office in the state. The sheriff in this county, however, has no jurisdiction over the King County Jail as it was separated from his or her control.\n\nIn West Virginia, the sheriff of a given county performs two distinct duties. They are the chief law-enforcement officers in the county, although much of this duty is handled by their chief deputies. They are also responsible for the collection of any taxes due to the county. While many sheriffs have a background in professional law enforcement, others are politicians or other local notables. West Virginia sheriffs are limited to two consecutive four-year terms.\n\nIn Wisconsin, sheriff's departments are responsible for law enforcement in towns and villages not large enough to support their own police departments. A sheriff's department may also aid local departments when requested.\n\n\nMany Western movies feature sheriffs of frontier towns who are either corrupt weaklings or glorious heroes who eventually rid their towns of all their mean elements. See \"Destry Rides Again\" and \"Dodge City\" for two examples of the latter type. Fictional sheriffs include:\n\nOther important representations of fictional sheriffs have been Collie Entragian (\"Desperation\" and \"The Regulators\"), Alan Pangborn in \"The Dark Half\" and \"Needful Things\", and Edgler Vess in Dean Koontz's novel, \"Intensity\".\n\n"}
{"id": "901091", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=901091", "title": "Sodium triphosphate", "text": "Sodium triphosphate\n\nSodium triphosphate (STP), also sodium tripolyphosphate (STPP), or tripolyphosphate (TPP),) is an inorganic compound with formula NaPO. It is the sodium salt of the polyphosphate penta-anion, which is the conjugate base of triphosphoric acid. It is produced on a large scale as a component of many domestic and industrial products, especially detergents. Environmental problems associated with eutrophication are attributed to its widespread use.\n\nSodium tripolyphosphate is produced by heating a stoichiometric mixture of disodium phosphate, NaHPO, and monosodium phosphate, NaHPO, under carefully controlled conditions.\nIn this way, approximately 2 million tons are produced annually.\n\nSTPP is a colourless salt, which exists both in anhydrous form and as the hexahydrate. The anion can be described as the pentanionic chain [OPOP(O)OPO]. Many related di-, tri-, and polyphosphates are known including the cyclic triphosphate PO. It binds strongly to metal cations as both a bidentate and tridentate chelating agent.\n\nThe majority of STPP is consumed as a component of commercial detergents. It serves as a \"builder,\" industrial jargon for a water softener. In hard water (water that contains high concentrations of Mg and Ca), detergents are deactivated. Being a highly charged chelating agent, TPP binds to dications tightly and prevents them from interfering with the sulfonate detergent.\n\nSTPP is a preservative for seafood, meats, poultry, and animal feeds. It is common in food production as E number E451. In foods, STPP is used as an emulsifier and to retain moisture. Many governments regulate the quantities allowed in foods, as it can substantially increase the sale weight of seafood in particular. The United States Food and Drug Administration lists STPP as \"generally recognized as safe.\"\n\nOther uses (hundreds of thousands of tons/year) include ceramics (decrease the viscosity of glazes up to a certain limit), leather tanning (as masking agent and synthetic tanning agent - SYNTAN), anticaking, setting retarders, flame retardants, paper, anticorrosion pigments, textiles, rubber manufacture, fermentation, antifreeze.\" TPP is used as a polyanion crosslinker in polysaccharide based drug delivery., toothpaste/dentifrice Saxton C, Van der Ouderra FGJ. J Periodontal Res.1989;24:75. 2. Lobene RR. Clin Prev Dent. 1986;8(1):3. 3. Lobene RR. et al. Clin Prev Dent 1982;4:5-8. 4.Mankodi S. et al. J Clin Peridontal 2005:32;75–80. 5. Mankodi S. et al. Comp Contin Educ Dent 1997:18(Spec No.);10–15. 6. Mallatt M. et al. J Clin Periodontol 2007;34:762–767. 7. Lang NP. Arch Oral Biol 1990;35(Suppl):95–145.\n\nPolyphosphates are hydrolyzed into simpler phosphates, which in moderate amounts are nutritious. For example, ATP, a related derivative of triphosphate, is essential for life. Thus, the toxicity of polyphosphates is low, as the lowest LD after oral administration is >1,000 mg/kg body weight. Similarly, no mutagenic, carcinogenic, or reproductive effects have been noted. Salts of polyphosphate anions are moderately irritating to skin and mucous membranes because they are mildly alkaline.\n\nIn 2000, the worldwide consumption of STPP was estimated to be approximately 2,000,000 tonnes. Because it is very water-soluble, it is not significantly transferred to sewage sludge, and therefore to soil by sludge spreading. No environmental risk related to STPP use in detergents is indicated in soil or air. As an ingredient of household cleaning products, STPP present in domestic waste waters is mainly discharged to the aquatic compartment, directly, via waste water treatment plants, via septic tanks, infiltration or other autonomous waste water systems.\n\nAs STPP is an inorganic substance, biodegradation studies are not applicable. However, STPP can be hydrolysed, finally to orthophosphate, which can be assimilated by algae and/or by micro-organisms. STPP thus ends up being assimilated into the natural phosphorus cycle. Reliable published studies confirm biochemical understanding, showing that STPP is progressively hydrolysed by biochemical activity in contact with waste waters (in sewerage pipes and within sewage works) and also in the natural aquatic environment. This information enabled the calculation of “worst case” predicted environmental concentrations using the EUSES model and the HERA detergent scenario. A default regional release of 10% was applied instead of the 7% regional release indicated in the HERA detergent scenario. Reliable acute aquatic ecotoxicity studies are available which show that STPP is not toxic to aquatic organisms: all EC/LC50 values are above 100 mg/l (\"Daphnia\", fish, algae). Because of this, and because of the only temporary presence of STPP in the aquatic environment (due to hydrolysis), no studies have been carried out to date concerning the chronic effects of STPP on these aquatic organisms. Predicted no-effect concentrations were therefore calculated for the aquatic environment and sediments on the basis of the acute aquatic ecotoxicity results.\n\nDetergents containing phosphorus contribute, together with other sources of phosphorus, to the eutrophication of many fresh waters. Eutrophication is an increase in chemical nutrients—typically compounds containing nitrogen or phosphorus—in an ecosystem. It may occur on land or in water. The term is, however, often used to mean the resultant increase in the ecosystem's primary productivity (excessive plant growth and decay), and further effects including lack of oxygen and severe reductions in water quality and fish and other animal populations.\n\nPhosphorus can theoretically generate its weight 500 times in algae. Whereas the primary production in marine waters is mainly nitrogen-limited, fresh waters are considered to be phosphorus-limited. A large part of the sewage effluents in many countries is released untreated into freshwater recipients, and here the use of phosphorus as complexing agents is still an environmental concern.\n\n\n<br>\n"}
{"id": "522242", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=522242", "title": "Solovki prison camp", "text": "Solovki prison camp\n\nThe Solovki special camp (later the Solovki special prison), was set up in 1923 on the Solovetsky Islands in the White Sea as a remote and inaccessible place of detention, primarily intended for socialist opponents of Soviet Russia's new Bolshevik regime. At first, the Anarchists, Mensheviks and Socialist Revolutionaries enjoyed a special status there and were not made to work. Gradually, prisoners from the old regime (priests, gentry, and White Army officers) joined them and the guards and the ordinary criminals worked together to keep the \"politicals\" in order.\n\nThis was the nucleus from which the entire Gulag grew, thanks to its proximity to the first great construction project of the Five-Year Plans, the White Sea - Baltic Canal. Indeed, the phrase used to describe the group of islands, \"Solovetsky Archipelago\", seems to have suggested to Solzhenitsyn the title of his classic work.\n\nIn one way, Solovki and the White Sea Canal broke a basic rule of the Gulag: they were both far too close to the border. This facilitated a number of daring escapes in the 1920s; as war loomed in the late 1930s it led to the closure of the Solovki special prison. Its several thousand inmates were transferred elsewhere, or shot on the mainland and on Solovki.\n\nAleksandr Solzhenitsyn called Solovki the \"mother of the GULAG\". It was openly termed a concentration camp until the late 1920s when the euphemism \"corrective labour camp\" was applied throughout the system, now organised under the main directorate for corrective-labour camps or GULag (Главное Управление Лагерей). The Solovki \"special\" camp served as a testing ground where security measures were developed and tried out, as were innovations in \"living conditions\", work production norms, and other forms of repression.\n\nHistorically, the Solovetsky Islands were the location of the famous Russian Orthodox Solovetsky Monastery complex. It was a centre of economic activity with over three hundred monks, and also a forepost of Russian naval power in the North, repelling foreign attacks during the Time of Troubles, the Crimean War, and the Russian Civil War. In the autumn of 1922 the process of transitioning from a monastery to concentration camp began.\nAll wooden buildings were burnt and many of the monks were murdered, including the Igumen. The remaining monks were sent to forced labour camps in central Russia. \n\nThe unpublished decree of 3 November 1923 led to the conversion of the monastery buildings into the Solovki \"special\" camp: the Solovetsky Lager Osobogo Naznachenia or \"SLON\" in Russian (the acronym is a play on the Russian word for elephant). One of the first \"forced labor camps\", Solovki served as a prototype for the Gulag as a whole. In early 1924, it was sometimes given a double name, \"Severnye (Solovetskiye) Lagerya OGPU\" (Northern (Solovki) camps of OGPU).\n\nIts remote situation made escape almost impossible and in Tsarist times the monastery had been used, on occasion, as a political prison by the Russian imperial administration. The treatment of the prisoners in the Soviet-era camp attracted much criticism in Western Europe and the USA. After a thorough clean-up, the Soviet government sent the proletarian writer Maxim Gorky there in an attempt to counter this negative publicity. He wrote a very favourable essay, which praised the beauty of nature on the islands, but some authors believe he understood the real conditions he was witnessing.\n\nThe exact number of prisoners sent to Solovki from 1923 to the closure of its penitentiary facilities in 1939 is unknown. Estimates range between tens and hundreds of thousands.\n\nIn 1923, Soloviki contained \"no more than 3,000\" prisoners; by 1930, the number had jumped to \"about 50,000\", with another 30,000 held on the mainland at the nearest railhead of Kem. In the early 1930s, many of the prisoners from the camp worked on the notorious White Sea – Baltic Canal, one of a succession of grandiose schemes devised by Stalin.\n\nBetween 11 August 1937 to 24 December 1938, as part of Stalin's Great Purge, over 9,500 victims of Soviet political repressions were shot and buried on the mainland at Sandarmokh, not far from Medvezhyegorsk and the first two locks of the canal. Half of them were prisoners or \"special settlers\" working for the White Sea Canal and its enterprises. More than a thousand were transported to the mainland from Solovki late in 1937.\n\nIn 1936, the Solovki camp was renamed a \"special\" prison (STON, an acronym that reads \"Groan\" in Russian) and from then until its closure in 1939 it served as a holding area for many prisoners subsequently executed, there or on the mainland, during the Great Terror of 1937-1938.\n\nUntil documents confirming their execution were found in 1996, it was long thought that a transport of over one thousand prisoners, a quota for \"1st category arrests\" (executions), died from drowning after the barges on which they were travelling were deliberately sunk in the White Sea. It is now known that they were shot on the mainland in late October and early November 1937; subsequent quotas for execution came too late in the year to sail across the White Sea and were shot on the islands, near Sekirnaya Hill.\n\nAll but five of the 1,116 prisoners sent from Solovki across the White Sea on 27 October 1937 were executed by NKVD Captain and senior executioner Mikhail Matveyev at Sandarmokh between that date and 10 November 1937, when he reported his task complete. Among those killed were 289 members of the Ukrainian intelligentsia, the Executed Renaissance.\n\nA further transport was prepared to sail to the mainland for execution, but it was too late in the year to cross the frozen sea. Instead, between 200 and 300 prisoners were shot on Solovki itself, near the Sekirnaya Hill. One of the many victims was Yelizaveta Katz, an engineer, who was 8 months pregnant. She was due to be shot with the others on 17 February 1938, but was allowed to give birth, then shot three months later on 16 May, aged 28.\n\nIn 1939, the prison was closed. It was situated too close to the border with Finland, and the Second World War was imminent. The buildings were transformed into a naval base and a cadet corps was deployed there (one of its students was the future author Valentin Pikul).\n\nIn 1989, a permanent exhibition, \"The Solovki special camp\", was added to the museum on the islands, the first anywhere in the USSR to be devoted to the Gulag. In June of that year, the first Days of Remembrance for Victims of Political Repression were held on the islands; in subsequent years this event would take place in August.\n\nThe Orthodox Church reestablished the monastery in 1992, and that year the ensemble was added to UNESCO's World Heritage List.\n\nIn 2015, human rights activists expressed disquiet that the authorities were \"gradually removing all traces of the labor camp\". In January 2016 the Gulag section in the Solovki Museum was closed by its new director, Vladimir Shutov who, as Archimandrite Porfiry, was head of the monastery.\n\nIn August 2017, the local authorities asked police to investigate the 29th annual Days of Remembrance as an \"unauthorised\" gathering. Early in 2018, a court in the Arkhangelsk Region heard an unsuccessful plea by Archimandrite Porfiry to annul a contract concluded in 2011 with the head of the now disbanded Gulag section of the museum and evict its former head, Olga Bochkaryova, and her daughter from their two-room apartment.\n\nThe author of several books about Solovki, Yury Brodsky, was accused by an Orthodox website of displaying \"religious hatred\" in his latest publication.\n\nMembers of the intelligentsia, representing both Tsarist Russia and the post-revolutionary USSR, were prominent among the prisoners on Solovki.\n\nIn the 1920s many of those sent to Solovki were released, but often arrested and imprisoned (or exiled) a second time.\n\n\nNaftaly Frenkel was a prisoner on Solovki who became a leading cadre in the security services during the First Five-Year Plan.\n\nArrested by the OGPU in 1923, he was sentenced to ten years imprisonment and sent to Solovki. There his sentence was reduced and in 1927, he was released and appointed head of production at SLON before being sent as representative of the camp to Moscow in 1929. Soon he was in charge of production throughout the Gulag and oversaw work on the White Sea Canal. His activities in the Gulag paralleled the forced industrialisation and collectivisation of agriculture throughout the Soviet Union.\n\nThe mass shooting on Solovki in 1929 described by Dmitry Sergeyevich Likhachov (it forms a key episode in Marina Goldovskaya's 1987 film) was a sign of the harshening regime.\n\n\nMany of those on Solovki later in the 1930s fell victim to Stalin's Great Purge and were shot, either in autumn 1937 at Sandarmokh or on Solovki in February 1938.\n\n\nHamid bey Shahtakhtinski, Minister of Education and Religious Affairs of Azerbaijan Democratic Republic (1918-1920): imprisoned 1941-1944 when he died.\n\n\nThats just the place for him! I told him so that day at breakfast...[However] It is impossible to send him to Solovki for the simple reason that he has resided for the past hundred-odd years in places considerably more remote than Solovki, and, I assure you, it is quite impossible to get him out of there.\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "17213240", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17213240", "title": "Treaty rights", "text": "Treaty rights\n\nTreaty rights are certain rights that were reserved by indigenous peoples when they signed treaties with settler societies in the wake of European colonization. This applies to the rights of Alaska Natives and Native Americans in the United States and First Nations in Canada, as well as to a smaller number of Inuit and Metis in Canada who have entered into treaties.\n\nTreaty rights are not the only rights claimed by indigenous peoples. Indigenous people claim inherent rights to self-determination, which implies that they be recognized as rights-bearing groups (called \"tribes\", \"bands\", or \"nations\" depending on the place and time) capable of self-determination and cultural survival. Once the state recognizes that there is another body corporate with legal personality capable of making binding agreements on behalf of its members, then negotiations can begin for mutual exchange and aid: a treaty. The earliest of these agreements, between colonial powers such the French, British, and the Dutch and various indigenous peoples of the Atlantic coastal regions had the character of military alliances, as between peers. Later treaties, however, were generally about the cession of land from weakened Aboriginal peoples to expanding settler states. By the Royal Proclamation of 1763 the British Crown (i.e. the state) declared that individual British subjects could not buy land from native nations; only the Crown could obtain land from native nations through treaty, which it could then redistribute to individuals. This principle, which was adopted by both Canada and the United States upon gaining independence from Britain, became the legal impetus for all subsequent treaties in North America.\n\nBy signing treaties, indigenous peoples traded vast amounts of their land and resources in exchange for reserved areas of land (Indian reservations [US terminology] and Indian reserves [Canadian terminology]) and things like protection (from attacks on their lands), health care, , and religious freedom, protection of hunting and fishing rights, and sometimes some monies as well. Because Article Six of the United States Constitution declares treaties to be the supreme law of the land, treaties are just as valid today as they were the day they were signed, and treaty rights are still legally binding as well. Likewise treaty rights were enshrined in Canada under section 35 by the package of constitutional reforms of 1982.\n\nA common critique of the treaty relationship is that treaty rights are \"special\" rights given to indigenous people by the state because of their racial status. Defenders of the treaty system argue however, that the government does not \"give\" treaty rights to anyone – native people reserved them when they signed treaties in a government-to-government relationship.\n\nTreaty rights are frequently subject to public debate, particularly hunting and fishing rights. Many Native nations have reserved rights to hunt and fish in their accustomed places, which are often lands that was given up at the treaty signing, or \"ceded land\". This leads to conflict with sports and commercial hunters and fishers, who are competing for the same limited resource in the same place.\n\nAnother common source of conflict is management decisions about the land or rivers on which Native people have rights. Things like dams and logging have huge effects on fish and wildlife populations. In Canadian law, government how have a court-mandated \"duty to consult\" indigenous peoples regarding the management process of these lands and rivers. In the United States, no such mandate exists.\n\nBeginning in the 1980s and extending into the early 1990s, Northern Wisconsin was rife in protests against Ojibwe spearfishing. The Voigt decision in 1983 had reaffirmed that the treaties made in 1837 and 1842 still stood. These treaties gave the Ojibwe the rights to hunt, fish, and gather off-reservation, which was not subject to state regulation. This heralded a backlash of non-Natives, who believed the Ojibwe had been granted special rights. Spearheaded by groups like Stop Treaty Abuse (STA), often violent and racially discriminatory protests against spearfishing covered boat landings across northern Wisconsin. This led to the case \"Lac du Flambeau Band of Lake Superior Chippewa Indians v. Stop Treaty Abuse-Wisconsin\", which culminated with Judge Barbara Crabb upholding the Voigt decision and many members, donors, and politicians distancing themselves from the STA, which many believed was racist.\n\nThe right to hunt North Pacific Gray Whales has been a contentious issue for the Makah people in Washington state. The Makah people ceded much of their traditional lands in the Treaty of Neah Bay in 1855, but retained the right to whale. The tribe voluntarily gave up this practice in 1915 because of decimated Grey Whale populations, but once the species was taken off the Federal Endangered Species List in 1993, the tribe sought to continue whaling. In 1999, they killed one whale, but faced immediate backlash from environmental groups and animal rights groups. The International Whaling Commission (IWC) believed that the Makah tribe’s quota of harvesting up to five whales a year would not hurt the recovering population. Because of a number of new studies garnishing evidence for and against this practice, the issue has been tied up in court since 1999, with the tribe being unable to exercise the right given to them in the Treaty of Neah Bay.\n\nThroughout the nineteenth century, the United States made a number of treaties with the then Kingdom of Hawaii, the final being in 1887. These treaties recognized the Kingdom of Hawaii as being sovereign and independent. In 1893, John L. Stevens, US minister assigned to the Kingdom of Hawaii, led a group of non-indigenous people to overthrow Queen Lili‘uokalani, which was backed by United States naval forces. They established a Provisional government, which then declared itself the Republic of Hawaii. In 1899, the US annexed Hawaii. Many Hawaiian sovereignty activists feel that because of the aforementioned treaties, Hawaii should today be its own Nation instead of part of the United States.\n\nThe Indigenous people of Standing Rock reservation in North and South Dakota believe that the Dakota Access Pipeline, which runs near their main source of water, could contaminate that source of water should it leak. The also cite the Fort Laramie Treaties of 1851 and 1868, which promised the land that DAPL runs through to the Sioux Tribe. Lands were seized in 1877 (8) and 1887 with the Dawes Allotment Act that broke up reservations (9). Some call for these treaties to be reinstated and enforced today, which would put the course of the DAPT straight through Sioux lands.\n"}
{"id": "23156790", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23156790", "title": "United States House Judiciary Task Force on Judicial Impeachment", "text": "United States House Judiciary Task Force on Judicial Impeachment\n\nOn June 19, 2008, the Judicial Conference of the United States delivered to the House of Representatives notification certifying \"its determination that consideration of impeachment of United States District Judge Thomas Porteous (E.D. La.) may be warranted.\" After a number of months considering the matter, the House passed Resolution 1448, which authorized the House Judiciary committee to create a task force to investigate the matter. The task force's authority lapsed with the change of Congress, and on January 13, 2009, the House Passed Resolution 13, which renewed it. In May of that year, the Task Force's authority was expanded to include the Case of Samuel Kent, a judge of the United States District Court for the Southern District of Texas, leading to his impeachment by the House of Representatives on June 19, 2009.\n\nOn June 18, 2008 the Judicial Conference of the United States transmitted a certificate to the Speaker of the U.S. House of Representatives expressing the Conference's determination that consideration of impeachment of Judge Porteous might be warranted. The certificate stated that there was substantial evidence that Judge Porteous \"repeatedly committed perjury by signing false financial disclosure forms under oath,\"\nthus concealing \"cash and things of value that he solicited and received from lawyers appearing in litigation before him.\" In a specific case, \"he denied a motion to recuse based on his relationship with lawyers in the case . . . and failed to disclose that the lawyers in question had often provided him with cash. Thereafter, while a bench verdict (that is, a verdict by a judge sitting without a jury) was pending, he solicited and received from the lawyers appearing before him illegal gratuities in the form of cash and other things of value\"\" thus depriving \"the public of its right to his honest services\". The certificate concluded that this conduct \"constituted an abuse of his judicial office\" in violation of the Canons of the Code of Conduct for United States Judges\".\n\nThe certificate also stated that there was substantial evidence that Porteous had \"repeatedly committed perjury by signing false financial disclosure forms under oath\" in connection with his bankruptcy, allowing \"him to obtain a discharge of his debts while continuing his lifestyle at the expense of his creditors\", and that he had \"made false representations to gain the extension of a bank loan with the intent to defraud the bank\".\n\nOn September 18, 2008, the House Judiciary Committee voted unanimously to proceed with an investigation of the bribery and perjury allegations. On October 15, 2008 House Judiciary Chair John Conyers announced that Alan I. Barron had been hired as Special Counsel to lead an inquiry into Judge Porteous' impeachment. Representatives Adam Schiff (D-CA) and Bob Goodlatte (R-VA) were designated as Chair and Ranking Member, respectively to lead the task force conducting the inquiry.\n\nOn January 13, 2009, the U.S. House of Representatives passed H. Res. 15 by voice vote, authorizing and directing the Committee on the Judiciary to inquire whether the House should impeach Judge Porteous. The resolution was sponsored by Rep. John Conyers, Chairman of the Judiciary Committee and was proposed because the investigation ended with the previous Congress and a renewal was needed. In October 2009, Reps. Conyers and Lamar Smith introduced a resolution asking to access the judge's tax returns as part of the investigation. The resolution was referred to the Rules Committee and, at the same time, a timeframe was established which called for the investigation to end in November 2009; the Judicial Task force on Judicial Impeachment would decide by the end of the year if impeachment would be recommended to the Judiciary Committee. If the recommendation was for impeachment, the Committee would take up the matter in early 2010. The task force scheduled the first hearings on the case for November 17 and 18, with more meetings in December before a final recommendation was made. \n\nOn November 13 Porteous sued the task force, claiming that the panel was violating his Fifth Amendment rights by using testimony given under immunity in making the case against him. On January 21, 2010, the panel voted unanimously to recommend four articles of impeachment to the full Judiciary Committee, which, on January 27, voted to send the articles of impeachment to the full House.\n\nOn May 14, 2009, Judge Kent refused to resign after he was sentenced to prison. The House Judiciary Committee then voted to begin an impeachment investigation. Proceedings continued after the judge resigned in June 2009 but set an effective date for his resignation in 2010. Hearings were held on June 2.\n\nChaired by Rep Adam Schiff, it featured the powerful testimony by the emotional and sometimes halting testimony of Cathy McBroom and Donna Wilkerson. The two Texas women sat side by side at the witness table, never smiling, and recounted the horrible events that Kent's guilty plea acknowledged had occurred. Both women quoted Kent as frequently saying: \"I am the government.\" In an emotional moment, Wilkerson described trying to tell her teenage daughter to never endure any sexual misconduct, even if it meant harsh consequences such as losing her job.\n\nKent and his lawyer, Dick DeGuerin, refused to attend, calling it a \"circus.\" \n\nOn June 9, the Task Force reported four articles to the full House Judiciary Committee, which sent them to the full House the next day, After his formal impeachment June 19, Kent resigned for real as the Senate trial was being organized.\n\n"}
{"id": "17241067", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17241067", "title": "Vice President of Guatemala", "text": "Vice President of Guatemala\n\nVice President of Guatemala is a political position in Guatemala which is since 1966 elected concurrently with the position of President of Guatemala. The current Vice President is Jafeth Cabrera.\n\nHistorically there have been provisions for multiple Vice Presidents elected for one-year-term. The election was carried in Congress of Guatemala. A provision for First and Second Vice Presidents existed 1882-1921, 1921-1928 and 1956-1966. A provision for First, Second and Third Vice Presidents existed 1921 and 1928-1944.\n\nHistory of the office holders follows.\n\n"}
{"id": "16960665", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16960665", "title": "Water Resources Development Act of 1976", "text": "Water Resources Development Act of 1976\n\nWater Resources Development Act of 1976, (WRDA 1976), is a public law enacted on October 22, 1976 by the Congress of the United States of America concerning various water resources and projects.\n\nWRDA 1976 authorized the Secretary of the Army, acting through the Chief of Engineers, to carry out the phase I design memorandum stage of advanced engineering and design on 35 projects for flood control and other purposes in New Jersey, New York, Pennsylvania, Virginia, Georgia, South Carolina, Puerto Rico, Wisconsin, Indiana, Oregon, Nebraska, Missouri, Tennessee, Mississippi, Texas, New Mexico, Oregon, Washington, North Dakota, California, Connecticut, Illinois, Ohio, Alaska, Mississippi, Arkansas, and Louisiana.\n\nAuthorizes the Secretary of the Army, acting through the Chief of Engineers, to investigate and study the following: (1) the development of a river system management plan for the Upper Mississippi River ($9,100,000); (2) the advisability and feasibility of providing flood protection by dredging the Susquehana River, Wyoming County, Pennsylvania; (3) the feasibility of providing protection against tidal and fluvial flooding along the San Francisco Bay shoreline, California; (4) the development of land and water resources in American Samoa; (5) the development of land and water resources in the Hilo Bay Area, Hawaii and Kailua-Kona, Hawaii; (6) the identification of navigational hazards through hydrographic surveys of the Columbia River from Richland, Washington, to the Grand Coulee Dam ($500,000); (7) the improvement of waterway systems under the jurisdiction of the Secretary; (8) the water and surface transportation needs resulting from the expansion and development of San Pedro Bay ports, California and the feasibility of enlarging the Dominguez Channel, California, for flood control purposes; (9) the most efficient methods of utilizing the hydroelectric power resources at water resource development projects under the jurisdiction of the Secretary; (10) the development of water supplies in the High Plains Region, Colorado, Kansas, New Mexico, Oklahoma, Texas, and Nebraska; and (11) the feasibility and appropriateness of the removal and disposal of debris remaining as a result of military construction during World War II in the vicinity of Metlakatla and Annette Island, Alaska.\n\nAuthorized the prosecution of the following works of improvement for the benefit of navigation and the control of floods and for other purposes: (1) Chaska, Minnesota, on the Minnesota River flood control project ($10,498,000); (2) James River at Richmond, Virginia, filtration plant flood control project ($4,617,000); (3) Harris Fork Creek, Tennessee and Kentucky, flood control ($5,000,000); (4) Neches River at Beaumont, Texas salt water control project ($14,300,000); (5) Los Angeles-Long Beach harbors, California navigation project ($16,850,000); and (6) Lower Snake River, Washington and Idaho fish and wildlife compensation plan ($58,400,000).\n\nModified 37 existing projects in Texas, Arkansas, Connecticut, Iowa, Alabama, Virginia, Mississippi, Oklahoma, Pennsylvania, California, Illinois, Utah, Louisiana, North Carolina, South Carolina, Georgia, Minnesota, North Dakota, Kansas, New Mexico, Idaho, Washington, Oregon, Alaska, New York, and Pennsylvania.\n\nAuthorizes the Secretary of the Army, acting through the Chief of Engineers, to undertake the following: (1) the replacement of Vermillon Lock on the Gulf Intracoastal Waterway, Louisiana ($20,683,000); (2) the conveyance by quitclaim deed to C.B. Porter Scott and Dorothy Boren Scott of Randall county, Texas, of specified land acquired as part of the project for Belton Lake, Texas; (3) the removal of Shooters' Island, Arthur Kill, New York; (4) the planning and establishment of wetland areas as a part of authorized water resources development projects; (5) the participation in construction of a levee and protective seawall at Liberty Park, New Jersey ($12,600,000); (6) the assumption of maintenance of the Mermentau River and the Gulf of Mexico Navigation Channel, Louisiana (at an annual cost of $155,000); (7) the construction of the flood protection project at Bassett Creek Watershed, Minnesota ($7,593,000); (8) to survey the Navajo Nation, Arizona, New Mexico, and Utah for flood control purposes; (9) the relocation of specified water intakes located on a pier of the Lewis and Clark Bridge on the Missouri River threatened by siltration; (10) the construction of a flood control project on the Red River below Denison Dam, Texas, Arkansas, and Louisiana ($4,131,000); (11) the construction of a flood control project on Galveston Bay, Baytown, Texas ($15,680,000); (12) the construction of a flood control project on the Santa Fe River and Arroyo Mascaras, New Mexico with specified restrictions ($8,200,000); (13) the construction of the project for Pine Mountain Lake on Lee Creek, Arkansas and Oklahoma; (14) the construction of a highway bridge over the Snake River between Lewiston, Idaho and Clarkston, Washington ($21,000,000); and (15) carrying out of a five-year demonstration project to temporarily increase the diversion of water from Lake Michigan at Chicago, Illinois.\n\nDeclares the following bodies of water to be nonnavigable: (1) Lake Oswego (Oregon); (2) Lake Coeur d'Alene (Idaho) and (3) Lake George (New York).\n\nAuthorizes the filling in of the Hudson River in Hudson County, New Jersey and the erection of permanent pile-supported structures thereon if the Secretary of the Army, acting through the Chief of Engineers, finds that a declaration that this location is nonnavigible is in the public interest.\n\nTerminates the authorization of the Gaysville Dam and Lake project, Stockbridge, Chittenden, and Rochester, Vermont.\n\nPermits the Washington Suburban Sanitary Commission to construct a water diversion structure from the North Shore of the Potomac River at the Washington Suburban Sanitary Commission water filtration plant to the north shore of Watkins Island.\n\nAuthorizes the Secretary of the Army, acting through the Chief of Engineers, to undertake projects for the collection and removal of drift and debris from publicly maintained commercial boat harbors and from land and water areas immediately adjacent thereto. Provides that the Federal share of the cost of any project developed will be two-thirds and that the remainder shall be paid by the State, municipality, or other political subdivision in which the project is to be located.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "9444323", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9444323", "title": "Years of Lead (Morocco)", "text": "Years of Lead (Morocco)\n\nThe Years of Lead ( \"Sanawāt ar-Ruṣāṣ\", ) is the term used to describe a period of the rule of King Hassan II of Morocco, mainly the 1960s through the 1980s, marked by state violence against dissidents and democracy activists.\n\nHassan II was king from 1961 until his death in 1999. His reign was marked by political unrest and a heavy-handed government response to criticism and opposition. While some perceive the Years of Lead to have begun with Moroccan independence in 1956 under Mohammed V, political oppression plateaued in the 1960s and wound down only in the early 1990s.\n\nDuring the 1990s, Morocco experienced a slow but notable improvement in its political climate and human rights situation. The pace of reform accelerated with the accession to the throne of Mohammed VI in 1999.\n\nDuring the Years of Lead, dissidents were arrested, executed or \"disappeared\", newspapers were closed and books were banned. There are few reliable lists of victims for the time, but there were hundreds of political killings and forced disappearances. Arbitrary arrests and torture affected many, including some of those outside the usual opposition networks.\n\nSome examples of government repression include:\n\n\nAs the more liberal-minded Mohammed VI succeeded his father on the throne in 1999, the period was definitely over. While Morocco is still not considered a democracy in the western meaning of the term and human rights abuses still frequently occur according to rights groups (especially against suspected Islamists and Sahrawi independence seekers), important reforms have been instituted to examine past abuses. The press is considerably freer than before and debate on many subjects is intense, although the monarchy, political Islam and Western Sahara remain more or less untouchable. Parliament still holds no power over the King, but elections are semi-fair, whereas they were blatantly rigged or suspended for many years during the 1970s and 1980s. Several independent human rights organizations have formed to investigate the impact of state repression during the years of rule and to press claims for damages suffered.\n\nOne of the most significant developments was the setting up of the Equity and Reconciliation Commission (ERC, French acronym IER) in January 2004. The ERC is an official government human rights committee authorized to examine human rights abuses committed by the government and administer compensations for victims of unfair policies. While this is almost unprecedented in the Arab world, the ERC's actual independence from the current administration and its ability to reach culprits in the Moroccan elite, known as the \"makhzen\", has been seriously disputed. The ERC is not mandated to identify or prosecute discovered human rights offenders and there has been no trials against government employees for their actions during the Years of Lead. The situation in Western Sahara, a neighbouring territory that was controversially militarily annexed by Morocco in the 1970s, has been mentioned by rights groups as especially serious. There are complaints that the ERC either cannot or will not examine the cases of disappeared or killed Sahrawis with the same forcefulness as with Moroccans.\n\nOn January 6, 2006, King Mohammed VI expressed regret for the human rights abuses that had occurred during his father's reign and spoke of the need for lessons to be drawn from the past. \n\nThe commission's work, and the emotional legacy of the Years of Lead on four families, is also explored in the 2008 documentary film \"Our Forbidden Places\" (\"Nos lieux interdits\").\n\n\n\n"}
