{"id": "25524296", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25524296", "title": "Arthur Jacobs", "text": "Arthur Jacobs\n\nArthur David Jacobs (14 June 1922 – 13 December 1996) was an English musicologist, music critic, teacher, librettist and translator. Among his many books, two of the best known are his \"Penguin Dictionary of Music\", which was reprinted in several editions between 1958 and 1996, and his biography of Arthur Sullivan, which was praised by critics in Britain and America. As an academic, Jacobs taught at the Royal Academy of Music, at Huddersfield Polytechnic, and at universities in the US, Canada, and Australia.\n\nJacobs was born in Manchester, England, to Jewish parents, Alexander Susman Jacobs and his wife Estelle (\"née\" Isaacs). He was educated at Manchester Grammar School and Merton College, Oxford, taking an honours degree in 1946. In World War II he served in India and Burma with the British Army, reaching the rank of lieutenant. In 1953 he married the writer Betty Upton Hughes. They had two sons, Michael Jacobs and Julian Jacobs.\n\nJacobs was music critic of \"The Daily Express\" from 1947 to 1952, of \"The Sunday Citizen\" from 1959 to 1965, and of \"The Jewish Chronicle\" from 1963 to 1975. He reviewed records for \"Hi-Fi News and Record Review\" and \"The Sunday Times\" and wrote for the arts section of \"The Financial Times\". He was deputy editor of \"Opera\" magazine from 1961 to 1971 and served on its editorial board from 1971 until his death.\n\nFor \"The Musical Times\", between 1949 and 1996, Jacobs wrote on a wide variety of musical topics, including the New York Philharmonic Orchestra, the Three Choirs Festival, Russian song, \"The Gypsy Baron\", \"Thespis\", the Metropolitan Opera, Leonard Bernstein, \"Così fan tutte\", \"Trial by Jury\", Glyndebourne, Otto Klemperer, and composers from Handel to César Franck to Elgar to Janáček.\n\nFrom 1964 to 1979, Jacobs was a lecturer at the Royal Academy of Music, teaching the history of opera. He was head of the music department of Huddersfield Polytechnic (now the University of Huddersfield) 1979–84, where he was appointed to a personal professorship in 1984. Overseas, Jacobs was visiting professor at Temple University (Philadelphia) in 1970 and 1971, at McMaster University (Hamilton, Ontario) in 1975 and 1983, and at the University of Queensland (Brisbane) in 1985. After the Queensland post ended, he retired to Oxford, where he died at the age of 74.\n\nJacobs wrote the libretto for Nicholas Maw's 1964 opera, \"One Man Show\", based on a short story by Saki. His colleague Stanley Sadie said of him, \"Opera was always at the centre of his interests. He was a firm believer that it was meant to be fully understood, and that meant it should be presented in English to English-speaking audiences. He was a good linguist himself and translated more than 20 operas … in a fluent and direct style that sometimes betrayed (though not often inaptly) his early love of Gilbert and Sullivan.\" He made English translations of German, Italian, French and Russian opera libretti, including Berg's \"Lulu\", Berlioz's, \"Benvenuto Cellini\", Donizetti's, \"L'elisir d'amore\", Gluck's \"Iphigenie en Aulide\", Handel's \"Riccardo Primo\", Monteverdi's, \"L'Incoronazione di Poppea\", Richard Strauss's \"Die schweigsame Frau\", Rossini's \"La Cenerentola\", \"L'italiana in Algeri\", and \"Il Turco in Italia\", Schoenberg's \"Erwartung\", Tchaikovsky's \"The Queen of Spades\", and Verdi's \"Don Carlos\".\n\nWriting for \"The Musical Times\" in 1961, Jacobs gave examples of stilted translations and contrasted them with vital and natural-sounding ones. He instanced a line from \"Tosca\", \"Ah, finalmente! Nel terror mio stolto/ Vedea ceffi di birro in ogni volto!\", gave a literal translation (\"Ah! at last! In my stupid terror I saw those ugly police snouts in every face\") and contrasted it with the original early-20th-century English translation: \"Ah! I have baulked them! Dread imagination/ Made me quake with uncalled for perturbation.\"\n\n\nJacobs also contributed to:\n"}
{"id": "34057638", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34057638", "title": "Cause lawyer", "text": "Cause lawyer\n\nA cause lawyer, also known as a public interest lawyer or social lawyer, is a lawyer dedicated to the usage of law for the promotion of social change to address a cause. Cause lawyering is commonly described as a practice of \"lawyering for the good\" or using law to empower members of the weaker layers of society. It may or may not be performed pro bono. Cause lawyering is frequently practiced by individual lawyers or lawyers employed by associations that aim to supply a public service to complement state-provided legal aid.\n\nCause lawyering is performed by a lawyer or a firm that is \"most frequently directed at altering some aspect of the social, economic, and political status quo.\" The content of the issue is not particularly relevant, only the advocacy of an issue and the attempt to bring about social change through legal or even quasi-legal avenues. Cause lawyering can include dedicated advocacy by public interest firms, pro bono work by attorneys in private practice and other non-traditional forms of law practice that advocates a cause. Lawyers who work for the government, whether federal, state, or local, can also be cause lawyers; although the majority of cause lawyering tends to be adversarial towards the state.\n\nAs coined by experts Stuart Scheingold and Austin Sarat in their work \"Something to Believe In: Politics, Professionalism, and Cause Lawyering\", cause lawyering consists of \"using legal skills to pursue ends and ideals that transcend client service – be those ideals social, cultural, political, economic or indeed, legal\". There is no single \"correct\" way to define what Cause Lawyering is or who is a cause lawyer. Cause lawyering is particularly hard to put limits around because it encompasses so much in the legal world and almost any issue can be considered an issue or cause that is being advocated for, and thereby qualifying as cause lawyering. Cause lawyering does not require a particular political side, but does require a \"determination to take sides in political and moral struggle without making distinctions between worthy and unworthy causes\".\n\nCause lawyering is less about the client and more about the issue the client represents.  Cause lawyering is about the belief in a cause or issue and the will/desire to advance that cause.  Cause lawyers tend to choose clients on the basis of their own ideological grounds, no matter where they fall on the political, social, economic, and /or legal spectrum.  What ultimately separates the cause lawyer from other types of lawyers is the advancement of the cause through the client to transform the status quo in service to a cause that is just as important, or more important, than the client.\n\nIn a 2004 American Bar Foundation essay, Thomas M. Hilbink outlined the \"typolog[ies]\" of cause lawyering.  In this essay, cause lawyers are broken into three typologies: (1) Proceduralist Lawyering; (2) Elite-Vanguard Lawyering; and (3) Grassroots Lawyering.  Proceduralist lawyering is \"marked by a belief in the separation of law and politics, and a belief that the legal system is essentially fair and just\".  Elite-Vanguard lawyering focuses on law as a superior form of politics that uses the law to render substantive justice in a way that will change substantive law and thereby change society. Grassroots lawyering, however, approaches law as \"just\" another form of politics, a venue that is corrupt, unjust, or unfair, and aims to achieve substantive social justice through using the law in combination of other social movements, but refraining from using the law as a primary method for social change.\n\nWhat is now known as cause lawyering grew when the idea of \"legal science\", a 19th-century belief of legal objectivity in which law could be determined through the application of scientific principles and methodologies, was challenged. Until the late 19th century, the legal field worked to separate law and politics, precluding the idea that the law could be used as a force for political or social change.  The first organizations to break into cause lawyering and tear down the idea came into existence in the 20th century, the National Association for the Advancement of Colored People (NAACP) and the American Civil Liberties Union (ACLU).  Through intermixing political progressivism and the law, these two organizations paved the way for politically themed legal entities to use the law in a way that would advance the cause they represented.\n\nIn applying the broad encompassing cause lawyering definition from above, cause lawyering has existed as long as legal advocacy has existed.  As long as an advocate has advocated for a client and against a perceived social or legal wrong, although the term was not coined until 1998, cause lawyering has been active.  In the late 1800s it was slavery and state's rights, in the early 1900s it was women's suffrage and civil rights.  In the 1960s and the non-profit law firm was born.  The creation of non-profit law firms ushered in an era of progressive public interest firms modeled after already established like the NAACP and the ACLU to advance progressive causes from the environmental protection to consumer advocacy.  These beginning organizations of cause lawyering, and the ones that followed scored major legal victories that have lasting effects to this day; see \"Brown v. Board of Education\"\n\nIn the 1960s, the Ford Foundation began funding legal services programs as a component of anti-poverty programs helping fund some of the forerunners of legal services for indigent clients: Mobilization for Youth in New York, Action for Boston Community Development, the Legal Assistance Association in New Haven, and the United Planning Organization in Washington.  While not identified as cause lawyers at the time, these early programs explicitly fit the mold of using the legal system to advance their cause.\n\nOnce the newly minted non-profit law firms were established as charitable organizations eligible for IRS tax-deduction, they began to advocate on behalf of disadvantaged and underrepresented groups, advancing the civil rights and poverty legal work from decades earlier. During the 1970s, feminist law firms began to emerge with the growing Women's Movement and with each newly emerging social movement, new cause lawyering organizations sprung up to compliment them.  By the mid to late 1970s the explosion of progressive cause lawyering organization was being followed by the creation of more conservative cause lawyering firms.  The face of cause lawyering has ebbed and flowed just as political movements, social movements, and economic movements have from the 1970s through today.  Major events, like the establishment of the Legal Services Corporation and subsequent restriction; decisions in \"Loving v. Virginia\", \"Lawrence v. Texas\", \"Roe v. Wade\", \"District of Columbia v. Heller\", \"Citizens United v. Federal Election Commission\", \"National Federation of Independent Business v. Sebelius\", \"Shelby County v. Holder\", \"United States v. Windsor\", and \"Obergfel v. Hodges\"; along with everyday victories and defeats of cause lawyers all over the United States have shaped our last one hundred years and will continue to shape the legal landscape to come.  As Dean F. Michael Higginbotham said in his Keynote Speech at the University of La Verne Law Review Symposium in 2014:\n\n\"Make no mistake ... there is no better feeling in this life than to know that you have helped to improve the lives of those around you. Nice to make some money, nice to have material things, but there is nothing better than knowing that you have helped the impoverished, that you have helped the hungry, that you have helped the politically powerless, and that you have helped the undereducated to gain at least a semblance of dignity.\"\n\nPublic interest law is \"the legal practice that advances social justice or other causes for the public good\". In its most simple form, public interest is defined as \"(1) the general welfare of the public that warrants recognition and protection\" and \"(2) [s]omething in which the public has a stake ...\"\n\nThe public interest notation was first given to a group of lawyers in the 1960s who fought to address the social injustice that existed in American society. Throughout the late 20th century, many lawyers self-defined themselves as public interest lawyers in order to gain legitimacy and respect as they sought to change complex social, political, environmental, and educational problems. As a result of many attorney's desire to participate in public interest law, organizations, such as the ACLU and NAACP, were formed to develop a collaborative approach to addressing these societal problems. Today, public interest lawyering has expanded greatly to include free legal aid groups, liberal and conservative public interest organizations, partisan environmental groups, and individual lawyers who choose to represent the underrepresented.\n\nWith the increase in self-proclaimed public interest lawyers, the definition and categorization of public interest lawyering continues to be a debated topic.  In attempt to narrow the categorization of public interest lawyering, many scholars and researchers have attempted to create a more precise definition of \"public interest law\". The Ford Foundation was one of the first groups to attempt to define public interest law as an \"[a]ctivity that (1) is undertaken by an organization in the voluntary sector; (2) provides fuller representation of underrepresented interests (would produce external benefits if successful); and (3) involves the use of law instruments, primarily litigation.\" Looking at the role of public interest law groups, Laura Beth Nielsen and Catherine Albiston defined public interest law groups as \"organizations in the voluntary sector that employ at least one lawyer at least part time, and whose activities (1) seek to produce significant benefits for those who are external to the organization's participants, and (2) involve at least one adjudicatory strategy.\" Looking at public interest law as a more broad category, Scott Cummings suggests that public interest law is the legal means that advance the interest of disadvantaged people by way of challenging corporate or governmental policies and practices.\n\nOther scholars have defined public interest laws not by what a lawyer does but by a lawyer's financial self-sacrifice. When discussing young lawyers who are influencing change, Karen Dillon stated that public interest lawyers are those who \"have followed their hearts, not necessarily their wallets, into careers that they are convinced will make a difference in the world\". Pro bono work of lawyers has become synonymous with the public good, and there is no debate that a majority of pro bono attorneys do contribute to the public good.\n\nThere are multiple ideological groups that unite on specific issues and work towards advances the causes that they believe are in the public interest. The early successes of the public interest movements prompted the emergence of public interest law firms, advocating on divisive political issues. In their discussion of cause lawyering, Scheingold and Sarat suggest that cause lawyering, \"conveys a determination to take sides in political or moral struggle without making distinctions between worthy and unworthy cause\".  Today, public interest law firms are at the forefront of public interest groups and political advocacy organizations.\n\nWhen partisan public interest organizations first gained popularity in the 1960s and 1970s it was the liberal groups that bound together to promote significant social change. Drawing from the strategies developed by previous groups to advance specific causes, like the NAACP, ACLU and LDF, these public interest groups expanded their role to substantive law reform, litigation, and administrative and legislative advocacy. Because of this expansion in services offered, these groups began employing lawyers to create more lasting substantive change through legal reform.\n\nIn response to the success of liberal groups advancing their partisan agendas, conservatives began to adopt this type of organization and developed public interest groups of their own. Many of the first conservative public interest groups (the National Right to Work Committee, National Right to Life Committee, Catholic League for Religious and Civil Rights), were created to advance very specific policy goals.\n\nThese groups do not necessarily advance the public's interest but are intertwined with corporations and lobbying efforts to advance the interest that benefit their clients and result in financial gain for them. Since their inception, the role in public interest groups in politics has increased drastically, with many of them funding political action committee (PACs) with the purpose of advancing or inhibiting campaigns based on the candidate's stance on important issues. Public interest groups on both sides of the aisle have expanded their roles tremendously and can even be attributed to the divisive political arena that exist today. While their roles have expanded, their overall goals have not. Partisan public interest groups continue pursuing the causes that connect with their ideological beliefs and continue to have successes in advancing these interests.\n\nCommunity economic development work includes building coalitions of interested parties to create social policies that improve affordable housing opportunities, increases access to affordable financing options, develops workforce skills, and generally produces more economic production within suffering urban and rural communities. In order to serve their client, CED lawyers are required to be proficient in many areas of the law which include: business, finance, environmental studies, real estate, architecture, public policy, education, employment and human resources, community organizing, organizational development, and change theory among other subjects.\n\nCommunity economic development efforts have been traced back to the early 1900s to the Tuskegee Institute. During that time Booker  T. Washington believed that the best way to advance African Americans interests was through encouraging economic self-sufficiency through encouraging job training and entrepreneurship. He believed that through economic self-sufficiency, hard work, and property ownership, African American communities would, on their own, create greater levels of wealth accumulation within the African community. To achieve his vision, Washington created vocational training programs and presided over the National Business League with the goal of supporting African American business networks, products, and services.\n\nIn the 1960s, the Civil Rights movement brought about changes to Community Economic Developments advocacy by focusing on grassroots programs in order to achieve greater levels of equality in poor urban and rural communities. Groups like the Southern Christian Leadership Conference and Poor People's Movement began lobbying the Federal Government to create an economic bill of rights which demanded, among other things, improving the economic conditions within underrepresented urban and rural communities.In response, the Federal government created focused programs that targeted disadvantaged communities by providing increased education, job training, and family services.\n\nBeginning with the Omnibus Budget Reconciliation Act of 1981, both state and federal governments began to reinvest in struggling urban and rural communities through the creation of Enterprise Zones. The purpose of the newly created Enterprise Zones was to stimulate job creation within urban communities through tax breaks to relocating companies, job training and ultimately economic growth. Despite their good intentions, empirical studies have concluded that unless the underlying conditions are ready for economic development, the net benefit of the economic zone program is minimal. According to these studies, the underlying conditions needed to improve an economic zones chances of success are: low unemployment, high levels of investment and suburbs.\n\nAccording to Audrey G. McFarlane, CED lawyering efforts have fallen short of their intended goals of building economic development within a community. McFarlane asserts that the economic transformation within Economic Zones has failed in three ways. First, the structure of the economic stimulus has been designed to benefit large corporations that generally do not require high paying jobs. Second, the very fact that the programs are assigned to a geographical location further strengths the stigma associated with investing in \"ghettos\". Finally, simply providing a job does not address the entire problem facing a community and should include housing programs, workforce development, and food security among other things.\n\nA significant portion of cause lawyering is done through special interest groups or legal advocacy organizations. Cause lawyering groups are a type of public interest law organization (PILO). These organizations are generally structured as 501(c)(3) nonprofits. These organizations are generally tied to specific social movements. For example, there are legal advocacy organizations for a wide range of causes such as environmentalism, racial justice, feminism, Evangelical Christianity, consumers, the poor, and civil liberties. These organizations allow cause lawyers to pool time and resources to develop complex litigation strategies for their causes. They often employ staff, have formal members, rely on grant or foundation funding, and even operate on a national scale.\n\nThese groups may use \"test cases\" to change the law to reach the group's political goal. For example, the American Civil Liberties Union (ACLU) famously defended John Scopes in the Scopes Monkey Trial. In 1925, Tennessee passed the Butler Act which outlawed the teaching of evolution. The ACLU offered to defend anyone arrested for teaching evolution in violation of the Butler Act. High school biology teacher. Scopes urged students to testify against him and he was eventually arrested under the Butler Act. Clarence Darrow defended Scopes on behalf of the ACLU. Although Scopes lost at trial, the proceedings were heavily publicized and changed public opinion on the role of faith in public schools. Legal advocacy groups also educate the public and political leaders about their causes, sometimes through litigation.\n\nWhile the ACLU concerns itself with a broad array of civil rights issues, the National Association for the Advancement of Colored People (NAACP) and Southern Poverty Law Center (SPLC) share a narrower focus on racial justice issues. Spearheaded by lawyer and future Supreme Court justice Thurgood Marshall, the NAACP used planned litigation to reverse the \"separate but equal\" doctrine in \"Brown v. Board of Education\". Other prominent legal advocacy groups include the Animal Legal Defense Fund, Center for Constitutional Rights, Innocence Project, Lawyers' Committee for Civil Rights under Law, Legal Momentum, and the Sylvia Rivera Law Project.\n\nLegal advocacy organizations span the political spectrum. Originally, these groups tended to support politically liberal causes. Today, there are many politically conservative legal advocacy organizations, such as the Liberty Counsel. Many of such groups are called Christian conservative legal organizations (CCLOs). The Alliance Defending Freedom and American Center for Law and Justice are also prominent CCLOs. CCLOs tend to focus their litigation on religious freedom, opposing same-sex marriage, and the right to life movement.\n\nSome grassroots organizations criticize national legal advocacy groups for dominating social movements. Legal advocacy groups may set the political agendas of social movements because legal advocacy groups generally have significantly more resources than grassroots activist groups. Additionally, legal advocacy groups may use a \"top-down\" approach to identifying and solving social problems without considering the actual needs of groups at the grassroots level.\n\nIn 2004, Joel F. Handler conducted research that focused on how public interest law firms have changed over time. Citing a 1978 Weisbrod study, Handler surveyed other cause lawyers to determine how cause lawyering has changed over time. According to the study, cause lawyer organizations have become multi-issue driven as opposed to the single issue focus held in the past. In addition to expanding the scope of a public interest practice, Handler cites that this shift has also included the expansion into other non-legal advocacy which includes: researching, writing and, conducting education and outreach programs.\n\nDue to the diversification of public interest organizations, the focus of most public interest organizations has become more diluted. Handler found that since 1975, the historically liberal public interest topics have, for the most part, experienced a decline in the percent of effort expended. Offsetting this decrease, Handler notes that growth has primarily been experienced within conservative public interest issues and addressing housing issues.\n\nCause lawyering has recently taken on a more international emphasis with lawyers working to produce social change most notably within the People's Republic of China. Primarily focused on expanding the recognition of human rights, Chinese public interest lawyers have attempted to change the government by litigating high-profile cases and organizing public gatherings demanding government reform. In response, the Chinese government has attempted to silence the cause lawyers by limiting their efficacy  through \"law based\" restrictions and \"extra-legal\" measures. According to the Leitner Center, the Communist Party of China has been instrumental in passing laws that limit Chinese lawyers ability to effectively practice law by restricting access to clients, charging registration fees and coercing lawyers to drop unpopular cases in exchange for more favorable licensing treatment. In addition to these \"law based\" restrictions, the Leitner Center has documented cases where lawyers have been detained and even disappeared after refusing to drop unpopular cases.\n\nCause lawyers in South American countries have begun to advocate more effectively by forming cause-lawyering networks. Covering a wide range of issues, these networks primarily focus on issues surrounding human rights and the environment.\n\nCause  have played a pivotal role in changing societal problems by using the legal arena to influence significant change. Notable cause lawyers who have created this change include:\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "38978303", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38978303", "title": "Cheikh Bouamama", "text": "Cheikh Bouamama\n\nCheikh Bouamama or Shaykh Bu 'Amamah () led an insurrection in Algeria from 1881 to 1883.\n\nCheikh Bouamama was a leader of the Awlad Sidi Shaykh confederation.\nThe rebellion that he led in the southwest of Algeria from 1881 to 1883 fell apart due to disagreements among the tribes.\nWhen Cheikh Bouamama retreated to Morocco in 1882 the French conquest of the south of Algeria was complete.\n\nThe Algerian filmmaker Benamar Bakhti made the 1983 film \"L'Épopée de Cheikh Bouamama\" (\"The Epic of Cheikh Bouamama\").\n\n"}
{"id": "30555896", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30555896", "title": "Dennis the Menace and Gnasher", "text": "Dennis the Menace and Gnasher\n\nDennis and Gnasher (previously titled Dennis the Menace and Gnasher, and originally titled Dennis the Menace) is a long-running comic strip in the British children's comic \"The Beano\", published by DC Thomson, of Dundee, Scotland. The comic stars a boy named Dennis the Menace and his Abyssinian wire-haired tripe hound Gnasher.\n\nThe strip first appeared in issue 452, dated 17 March 1951 (on sale 12 March 1951), and is the longest-running strip in the comic. The idea and name of the character emerged when the comic's editor heard a British music hall song with the chorus \"I'm Dennis the Menace from Venice\". The creation of Dennis in the 1950s saw sales of \"The Beano\" soar. From issue 1678 onwards (dated 14 September 1974) Dennis the Menace replaced Biffo the Bear on the front cover, and has been there ever since. \n\nCoincidentally, on 12 March 1951, another comic strip named \"Dennis the Menace\" debuted in the US. As a result of this, the US series has initially been retitled \"Dennis\" for UK audiences, while the British character's appearances are often titled \"Dennis and Gnasher\" outside the UK.\n\nDennis is the archetypal badly behaved schoolboy. The main recurring storyline throughout the years features his campaign of terror against a gang of 'softies' (effeminate, well-behaved boys), particularly Walter. Walter finds himself in unfavourable circumstances on many occasions, although he sometimes gets the last laugh. Author Michael Rosen states, “In most children's books a bad child gets made good – but the great thing about Dennis is he never gets better.”\n\n\"Dennis the Menace and Gnasher\" was first drawn by David Law (1951–1970), then David Sutherland (1970–1998). David Parkins took over in 1998, but due to his other work commitments, Nigel Parkinson and Jimmy Hansen have drawn the lion's share of the strips for some years, and Parkins has not drawn Dennis since 2006. More recently, Tom Paterson has drawn some second Dennis strips for the comic's rear pages. Barrie Appleby did the artwork for the \"Beano Superstars\" series, which, towards the end of its run, resorted mostly to strips based on the TV series. In 2011, he took over as Dennis's main artist. Upon the November revamp of The Beano, Nigel Parkinson took over as Dennis artist as Barrie Appleby had moved back to drawing new episodes of Roger the Dodger. During this revamp, Dennis was returned to his previous appearance and personality – Nigel Auchterlounie began writing for Dennis a month after and made Dennis (and the other characters) have wider personalities. Nigel Auchterlounie has proven to be a very popular writer since taking over Dennis. Dennis and Gnasher have remained mascots of \"The Beano\".\n\nThe idea and name of the character emerged when \"The Beano\" editor George Moonie heard a British music hall song with the chorus \"I'm Dennis the Menace from Venice\". The character of Dennis was initially a struggle for artist Davey Law and then \"Beano\" chief sub Ian Chisholm to develop. Chisholm described the character to Law but was dissatisfied with every sketch the artist showed him. Out of frustration, Chisholm grabbed a pencil and quickly sketched out his creation to Law in the back of his cigarette packet. The drawing consisted of Dennis's trademark messy hair cut, knobbly knees and menacing scowl. Adapting Chisholm's doodle, Law set to work on the character in the strip which would appear in the 17 March 1951 issue of The Beano. Two months later, Law gave the mischievous boy his distinctive red and black striped jersey, outsized shoes and devilish grin.\n\nDennis's first comic strip appearance consisted of him walking into the park with his father and his dog where a sign is planted informing visitors that they should 'Keep Off The Grass'. Keeping in with his \"world's naughtiest boy\" tagline, Dennis makes many attempts to get onto the grass much to his father's annoyance. Losing his temper, he takes the lead off the dog and puts it on Dennis thus ending the menace's hijinks. This, like many succeeding it, only made up half a page. It wasn't until around 1954 that Dennis was deemed popular enough to gain a full page strip. Untouched by political correctness, many of Law's strips would end with Dennis being punished for his troublemaking with corporal punishment such as a slippering or use of a cane. Throughout the years, Law's Dennis became taller than his debut appearance. It is not known why Law chose to do this, but many believe it was due to Law's perfectionist nature. In 1954, Dennis replaced Big Eggo as the character next to The Beano title citing one of many changes of the comic during this period. The following year, Dennis became one of a few characters from DC Thomson comics to be featured in his own annual (the 1956 edition) which continued to up to 2011. \n\nDennis was also present in the first Dandy-Beano Summer Special, where he appeared in full colour. This strip featured Dennis begrudgingly selling flags in aid of the Dog's home. Bored, he chooses to make this a perfect aid to his menacing. Dennis continued to gain popularity solo as time moved on. It wasn't until 1968 that his trademark pet, Gnasher, was introduced, marking comic history.\n\nOn 31 August, a strip depicted Dennis being informed by his father that many pets look like their owners. Dennis dismisses this as being a load of 'rot!' and goes out. However, upon seeing many different owners looking just like their dogs he begins to consider that it may be true. Upon being informed of a dog-show, Dennis decides to enter but needs a dog to do so. This was when he found the Abyssinian wire-haired tripehound roaming the streets of Beanotown. Menacing the dog show rather than attempting to win it, the duo are eventually caught and punished. Gnasher returned the following week and became a comic favourite as well as the fictional Menace's best friend.\n\nIn 1970, Davey Law took ill and retired from the strip, leaving Dennis in need of a new artist. Dave Sutherland, who was already the artist of Biffo the Bear and The Bash Street Kids, was chosen. Dennis made a cameo in a Biffo the Bear story in 1972 citing his wish to be on the cover. This dialogue proved to be almost prophetic as he became the cover star of the comic in 1974, a position he still holds today. His first cover story consisted of him using the issue's free gift, the Happy Howler to torment people including his Dad and in an Opera House, who gives Dennis's Dad a free gift of his own, a slipper.\n\nDennis's popularity was emphasised in 1976 when he was awarded his own fan club. Members would get a membership card, a club wallet and two badges. This later became the foundation of The Beano Club years later. The club was well known for being popular amongst celebrities as well as Beano readers. Phil Lynott, Mark Hamill and Linford Christie were among many to join. A strip promoting an all new Dennis T-shirt for club members emerged in 1978. It featured a guest appearance from Minnie the Minx and consisted of the two fighting over who the red and black jersey image truly belongs to.\n\n1978 also saw The Beano at 40. To celebrate Dennis's weekly comic strip this week featured him celebrating his birthday and his menacing antics with his brand new cowboy outfit.\n\nIn 1980, The Beano reached a landmark 2000th issue. The front cover depicted Dennis offering to show readers the very first issue of the comic. Incidentally and fitting well with the character's menacing nature, the comic was at the bottom of the pile. The character was then featured in one of the very first Beano spin-off comics, \"The Beano Comic Libraries\". He was one of the first Beano characters to get a feature length story which in turn was called 'King Dennis'. Dennis was also a character present in the most successful Beano annual to date in 1983.\n\nIn 1986, one of Dennis's very first story arcs appeared. Gnasher, his faithful companion, had gone missing. Distraught, Dennis asked readers to join him on a 'Gnational Gnasher Search'. At first, Dennis's dad was far happier without the tripe hound but as the week wore on he found himself missing him. The story wore on for seven weeks before Gnasher returned, a father with his six daughters and son, Gnipper, who would later become a key character.\n\nOn The Beano's 50th Anniversary, Dennis's strip consisted of him saving The Beano's birthday cake which had begun to float away after the rope in which the sailor was pulling it along with was cut by a nearby crab.\n\nA landmark issue for Dennis appeared in 1991, as the Beano announced they were to change his image. The news received much media attention throughout the UK and it was later revealed to be a publicity stunt in the very strip the image was introduced. Dennis's new attire consisted of a blue tracksuit, sunglasses and headphones connected to a walkman. However, the tracksuit bottoms ripped due to Dennis's knobbly knees and he ditched the jacket as his father could catch him easier after he had menaced. The end of the strip showed Dennis returning in his trademark jersey and shorts and pea-shooting his nemesis Walter. Dennis also played a vital role in the storyline in which The Beano was turned into colour. The front cover of the famous 2674th issue of the comic depicted Dennis spraying other famous Beano characters with a hose of paint.\n\nIn 1993, Beano editor Euan Kerr was becoming concerned at the direction David Sutherland's depiction of the character was taking, with Dennis becoming ever stockier and larger. Kerr, feeling that Dennis was beginning to resemble a thuggish teenager rather than the naughty boy he was intended to be, told Sutherland to make Dennis look younger in appearance. As a result, Dennis was made shorter, with a smaller chin. He retained his familiar outfit, but started to wear trainers. These changes were also made with the intention of making the character easier to animate for the forthcoming \"Beano Video\".\n\nIn 1996, the first Dennis animated series was released on the UK station Fox Kids, with a second series following in 1998.\n\nAfter the Beano's 60th anniversary issue in 1998, David Sutherland stopped drawing the strip, and was replaced by former Billy Whizz and The Three Bears artist, David Parkins.\n\nParkins' first Dennis strips featured a storyline that formally introduced Dennis's younger sister Bea into the comic. The story lasted three issues and consisted of Dennis's fear that a younger sister would ruin his reputation as the toughest menace in Beanotown. However, as it turned out Bea was as much of a menace as her older brother and even gained her own spin-off strip, which Dennis would sometimes cameo in.\n\nDennis kicked off the new millennium with a strip of him charging 50 pence to access the Menace Dome, a more 'menacing' version of the Millennium Dome. He also starred as a villain in a feature length Bash Street Kids strip in which he, alongside Minnie the Minx and Roger the Dodger, raced against the Bash Street Kids to find the treasure which was apparently buried underneath the Millennium Dome. It ended with Danny, the Bash Street leader, outwitting Dennis and his cronies and Dennis angrily blaming it on Roger. Whilst a rivalry with The Bash Street Kids was touched on before in other strips, it was this story which made the rivalry far more well known. Several succeeding feature length strips after, usually drawn by Mike Pearse or Kev F. Sutherland, further depicted the rivalry even to the point it would get violent. He also made other appearances in the spin-off Bash Street Kids - Singled Out, where he would take on a similar role.\n\nIn the same year, Dennis became a major mascot for the Chessington World of Adventures section, Beanoland. He was featured prominently throughout the land including a large figure atop of the shop, a member of the squirting water fountain, a character on the dodgems, a silhouette on the entrance and a cast member in the live show located in his treehouse. Later in the park's history, \"Dennis's Madhouse\" was introduced which was a foam ball play area. In 2008, the land was changed into Wild Asia.\n\nIn 2001, Dennis turned 50 and celebrated with a house party in which several Beano characters were invited. Humorously, all his gifts consisted of the 2001 Beano Annual, apart from Les Pretend's which was simply a pretend annual. He later participated in several party games which he changed radically to be far more menacing but found that most of the games back-fired onto him. The party was then finalised with a large food fight and then the entrance of The Dandy characters and other celebrities who had brought over a cake as the party continued for several more hours. Dennis's parents then hid and Dennis was forced to tidy up the mess. The same issue also showed readers how Dennis received his trademark jersey which, it reveals, was initially owned by a boy called Tufty. After Tufty asks when someone would land on the moon, to which Dennis accurately predicts 20 July 1969, Dennis offers to give him the chance right then. He attaches his granny's homemade soda pop to Tufty, shakes him then removes each of the lids which causes Tufty to blast off and fall into a nearby lake. Dennis then grabs the jersey and puts it on remarking it 'feels right somehow!'.\n\nIn 2003, Dennis appeared as a playable character in the PC game Beanotown Racing. He was featured in several strips leading up to the games release depicting how he received his vehicle and races he got into prior to the games events. This includes a rivalry with Minnie the Minx who had gotten her vehicle before him. Dennis tuned up his Menace-Mobile to make a dune buggy.\n\nDavid Parkins' workload meant he was able to draw the strip on an increasingly less frequent basis throughout his time on the strip, and after 2003 he became too busy to continue as full-time artist. Nigel Parkinson, who had previously been drawing the strip as Parkins' understudy, continued as artist, along with Jimmy Hansen coming in to replace Parkins. The pair drew the vast majority of stories between 2004 and 2007, when Tom Paterson also started drawing the strip. In 2008, Dennis was given an extra strip towards the back of the comic, usually a continuing story across a few weeks. These strips were usually drawn by Tom Paterson. One such story featured the illness of Gnasher's young pup, Gnipper who had been bitten by a poisonous snake. Throughout this story, Dennis and Gnasher called upon help of various past characters of the strips history before finally contacting Gnipper's many sisters who successfully managed to get him out of his coma. Walter also changed in the strip as Dennis was given more reason to belittle and menace him. Instead of being camp and frilly, he was quite rude and obnoxious especially towards Dennis and his friends. However, Dennis seemed to be more of a bully than an anti-hero in this age.\n\nIn 2007, Dennis was featured on the front page of a new magazine BeanoMax and was the coverstar until 2008 where he was replaced by Max, an exclusive character. Another landmark issue was met in 2008 where The Beano turned 70. As a celebration, Dennis was seen on the cover sharing a cake with Wallace and Gromit, whose creator was featured heavily in the issue.\n\nWhen the strip was relaunched in 2009, Dennis faced several changes to his character and appearance. It was the first major revamp of the character since his debut over 50 years prior and proved vastly controversial. Parkinson, Hansen and Paterson continued to draw the strips, although . Dennis became slightly shorter with a boyish look to him as opposed to the brute, tough guy look the previous artists had established. His behind the nose grin was used far less frequently and most of his menacing was toned down. He also no longer used weapons such as a catapult or peashooter save for a few times, so he became more creative in his mischief. The strip's title was shortened to Dennis and Gnasher during these years, and Dennis rarely used the term 'menacing' to describe his actions. Dennis's idol was revealed to be 'Rat-Bucket' a fictional heavy metal singer introduced in the strip. He was also given more rivals as Athena and Sugar were both introduced to the strip. He was also given a new spin-off called \"Sixty Second Dennis\". This was a single page strip which featured Dennis in a short story, and was usually illustrated by Nigel Parkinson.\n\nThe reason behind the re-launch was to promote the new TV series which was just about to hit screens in Britain. It followed Dennis, Curly, Pie-Face and Gnasher as they attempt to brighten up the average day in Beanotown through new ideas, adventures and pranks.\n\nOn 27 November 2010, The Beano Club was relaunched into The Beano V.I.P. It was officially announced vis a Dennis strip where several British celebrities including Ant and Dec, Simon Cowell and Daniel Radcliffe visited Beanotown in an effort to join the club but all failed as they were not deemed tough enough. In the end, Dennis decides its only the reader who can become a Beano V.I.P. This was the first strip in which Dennis seemed to actually do his 'menacing' intentionally since his re-launch in 2009.\n\nIn early 2011, Dennis's re-launched character slowly and subtly began returning to his 'menacing' ways. He began using his weapons again and referring to his antics as menacing. He also began to do his menacing more intentionally as he did in all previous eras. Barrie Appleby, who had previously drawn Roger the Dodger, became the artist as the strip was extended to three pages rather than the usual two. Sixty Second Dennis was also dropped, being replaced by a Gnasher spin-off strip called Gnashional Treasure, which was later renamed as Gnasher's Bit(e).\nAlthough the strip continued to be known as \"Dennis and Gnasher\", Dennis was once again overtly referred to as 'the menace', and by his 60th Birthday, Dennis had returned to his original character although he still has the likeness of his 2009 TV series counterpart. Meanwhile, Nigel Parkinson continued with lengthier BeanoMAX stories which would often feature other Beano characters.\n\nBy August 2012, Dennis's 2009 re-launch was reverted following yet another re-launch of the comic. His illustrations were more in tone with David Parkins' era and he partook in genuine naughtiness and disruption again. Barrie Appleby returned to Roger the Dodger, whilst Nigel Parkinson began weekly strips. Like his 2009 re-launch, Dennis faced several new changes mainly due to a new editor. His old behind the nose grin returned and he began to once again refer to himself as a 'menace'. His parents had a make-over, so his traditionally balding father now shared his messy spiked hair and his mother was no longer neatly shaped. Gnasher also returned to normal. A new character called Angel Face was also introduced into the strip, in order to give Dennis more of a rival.\n\nIn honour of the 2012 London Olympic Games, gold medalist Jessica Ennis appeared in a strip, much to public attention. Paralympic runner Oscar Pistorius also appeared, with the current editor, Stirling citing that 'When people told Oscar he couldn't be an athlete due to his disability, he ignored them and, in that respect, he's just like Dennis, who never does as he is told.' Both strips were extremely well received amongst both the athletes and the public.\n\nDuring Series 12 of the BBC’s \"Mock the Week\", host Dara Ó Briain, and comedians Hugh Dennis, Andy Parsons and Chris Addison were drawn by Nick Parkinson in a one-off pic with Dennis, which was shown in the second episode, whilst they and guest comedians were discussing about the appearance of Charles, Prince of Wales and Camilla Parker Bowles in \"The Beano\". Each celebrity was drawn holding a weapon – Hugh had a peashooter, Chris had a watergun, Dara had a plunger and bow, and Andy had a catapult, and all four were drawn with Dennis's trademark red and black striped top, shorts, black socks, and brown shoes (except Andy, who had red trainers).\n\nStarting in November 2012, Dennis was written by former Dandy writer, Nigel Auchterlounie, who gave Dennis and the other characters wider personalities. Auchterlounie's strips have been very well received since taking over the strip. Dennis's younger years in Beanotown Preschool were chronicled in a strip called \"The BamBeanos\".\n\nDennis is an uncontrollable schoolboy who takes pride in causing chaos and mayhem to those around him due to his intolerance for rules and order. Such traits have caused some artists and writers to consider him a villain. In such strips, Dennis would often prove himself to be quite selfish and greedy, often disregarding his friends in favour for treasures. His misbehaviour stems from what The Beano explains as an attempt to add excitement to an otherwise dull day. Often equipped with a red and black jersey and an array of menacing weaponry (such as a catapult), Dennis is considered to be quite the loner, seeking no solace in anyone's company aside from his faithful pet dog Gnasher. Feature length strips in The Beano reveal that Dennis actually has a rivalling nature with The Bash Street Kids, often brawling and attempting to outwit them. Most notably, he seems to have a particular dislike for Danny, the leader. He has, however, been shown to have a fairly stable friendship with Minnie the Minx and Roger the Dodger, enough so that the three have been seen to work together often. Dennis has also been shown to be quite heroic, having saved his town on occasion from potential disaster. The Beano Annual 2001–2002, both exemplified this in their stories in which Dennis defeated a race of 'Beanobots'.\n\nEven though many strips depict Dennis as being fairly academically challenged, he is in fact extremely inventive and clever when it comes to mechanics. On occasion, it has been shown that Dennis can make from scratch his very own vehicles including a Menace Dune-Buggy, a working rocket and other such things.\n\nMarch 1951: Drawn by David Law, Dennis the Menace appeared for the first time, as well as his dad.\n\nMay 1951: Dennis got his trademark red-and-black striped jersey, knitted for him by his granny (aka Whentball). He also teamed up with fellow menaces Curly and Pie-Face. The strip appeared in two colours (red and black).\n\nMid-1953: Dennis got expanded to a full page, while earlier strips were only half a page long.\n\n8 August 1953: Walter appeared for the first time. He moved in as Dennis's next-door neighbor. \n\n1954: David Law's style of drawing Dennis changed dramatically, making the characters tall and thin. Dennis appeared on the back page in full colour for the first time.\n\n1955: The first Dennis Annual was published, using reprinted stories from previous years.\n\n1958: After four years of being drawn this way, characters become more or less back the way they were. Dennis returned inside the comic.\n\n1962: Dennis returned to the back of the comic.\n\n31 August 1968: Dennis found a dog on the street, Gnasher, on his way to the dog show at the local town hall. Gnasher became a regular from this point onwards.\n\n1969: Walter's dog, Foo-Foo, debuted.\n\n22 July 1970: David Law retired, and one comic was drawn by Pup Parade artist Gordon Bell.\n\n29 July 1970: Bash Street Kids artist Dave Sutherland started drawing Dennis, although drawing the strip almost identically to David Law. The strip was renamed \"Dennis the Menace & Gnasher\" when originally it was just called \"Dennis the Menace\" as Gnasher had been appearing every week on the strips.\n\n14 September 1974: Dennis took the front cover of \"The Beano\" replacing Biffo the Bear.\n\n1975: Walter joined \"the softies\", Bertie Blenkinsop and Algernon \"Spotty\" Perkins.\n\n21 May 1977: Gnasher got his own strip in the comic, called \"Gnasher's Tale\", also drawn by David Sutherland.\n\n5 May 1979: Dennis's pet pig \"Rasher\" debuted.\n\n22 September 1984: Rasher got his own strip in the comic, called simply \"Rasher\". Again, David Sutherland is the strip's artist.\n\nMarch 1986: Gnasher \"went missing\". Foo Foo's Fairy Story temporarily replaced Gnasher's Tale.\n\nMay 1986 Gnasher returned, introducing his pups; Gnatasha, Gnanette, Gnancy, Gnaomi, Gnorah and Gnipper. \"Gnasher and Gnipper\" replaced \"Gnasher's Tale\".\n\n1987: Dennis's spider, Dasher, appeared.\n\n1988: Rasher's strip ended, replaced by Ill Will and the Germs.\n\n1990: Granny's personality was changed drastically. Now, rather than a mean old woman, she became an elderly menace. The slipper was no longer used, partly due to changing attitudes towards child discipline at the time.\n\n1990: \"The Beano's Dennis the Menace and Gnasher Show\" appeared for the first time on ITV and TCC,\n\n1992: The Menace Car was seen for the first time.\n\nFebruary 1993: David Sutherland, Realising how stocky and bulky he became in recent years, started changing Dennis, making him look young and cute for a few years. The \"Gnasher and Gnipper\" strip was taken over by Barry Glennard in order to ease Sutherland's workload, though the style remains similar.\n\nEarly 1996: Dennis The Menace was looking like he did again, and for the first time ever, the story was drawn in the same style as the Bash Street Kids.\n\nApril 1996: The Dennis the Menace Animated TV series appeared for the first time on BBC and TCC. This year marked the first appearances of The Colonel, Dennis's neighbour, and Sergeant Slipper, the local constable, who had both previously appeared in the television series. From this point onwards the front cover page usually consists of just one frame of the strip rather than several.\n\n1998: Dasher re-appeared with a red mask as the mascot of the Beano site.\n\nAugust–September 1998: For the 60th anniversary for the Beano, David Parkins started drawing Dennis the Menace, creating Bea some issues later.\n\nOctober 1998: Bea got her own strip called Beaginnings drawn by Nigel Parkinson. She said her first word (Mud) in this strip.\n\n1999: Nigel Parkinson became Dennis artist for the first time.\n\nFebruary 2001 The Gnasher and Gnipper strip was revamped, now being drawn in Barry Glennard's own style.\n\nMarch 2001 Dennis celebrated his 50th Birthday. A special episode drawn by David Parkins (In the style of David Law) was released in the issue, telling the readers how he got his striped jersey.\n\nDecember 2001 Beaginnings got renamed Dennis's Little Sister Bea – the Mini-Menace.\n\n2002: Buster artist Jimmy Hansen drew his first Dennis strip. By this time, Nigel Parkinson was drawing Dennis as often as David Parkins, and effectively became main artist the following year.\n\n2004: David Parkins stopped drawing Dennis altogether, and Jimmy Hansen joined Nigel Parkinson as main artist. Over the next 5 years they each drew about half of the strips. Walter got revamped when drawn by Jimmy Hansen, and he now bears the appearance of an Elvis impersonator with much bigger glasses.\n\n2004: Dennis the Menace became the longest running strip in the Beano ever, beating Lord Snooty.\n\n2007: Tom Paterson started drawing Dennis occasionally.\n\n2008: Dennis got a comic strip at the back of the Beano as well as the front. The second strip was usually drawn by Tom Paterson. It is now clear that Walter has a new personality. Instead of being a gentle, well-behaved boy, he's become camp, considerably meaner, and almost certainly evil.\n\n2009: A brand new series was released, again on the BBC. For the new series, Dennis and Gnasher were revamped, not just for TV but also in the comic. The second Dennis strip was replaced by Sixty Second Dennis, which takes up just one page as opposed to two. The main Dennis strip is now mainly drawn by Hansen, with Sixty Second Dennis usually by Nigel Parkinson.\n\n2011: Barrie Appleby took over as full-time Dennis artist. The strip isn't as influenced by the 2009 series now, with Dennis behaving more menacingly, the series-style backgrounds being dropped, Dennis being referred to more often as 'the menace' and the return of several characters who disappeared around the time of the new series, such as Foo-Foo. Also around the same time, Sixty Second Dennis gets replaced by a new Gnasher strip, titled Gnasher's Bit(e), drawn by Jimmy Hansen.\n\nMarch 2011: Dennis celebrated his 60th birthday.\n\nAugust 2012: Changes made by previous relaunch were reverted. Nigel Parkinson begins regular weekly strips.\n\nJuly 2013: A second season to the 2009 series renamed \"Dennis the Menace and Gnasher\" and the \"Dennis the Menace and Gnasher Megazine\" have both been released to coincide with the 75th anniversary of The Beano.\n\nMarch 2014: The \"Dennis the Menace and Gnasher Megazine\" was renamed \"Dennis the Menace and Gnasher's EPIC Magazine\".\n\nDecember 2014: The \"Dennis the Menace\" Minecraft mod is launched.\n\nFebruary 2015: The \"Blast in Beanotown\" app for the iPad is launched.\n\nSeptember 2017: Since Curly moved, JJ and Rubi are introduced since they both moved in. Pie-Face has been redesigned.\n\nNovember 2017: was released on BBC.\n\nOver the years, a variety of subsidiary characters have arisen.\n\nDennis is the main character of the strip. Badly behaved and visually rebellious, Dennis uses a wide range of pranks and weaponry in order to cause chaos and mayhem to those around him. He is trademarked by his scruffy, black hair and red & black jersey.\n\nDad appeared in the first strip. His real name has never been given (although once it was cited as actually being \"Dennis's Dad\" in a letter by Dennis). He also appears in both \"Bea\" and \"Gnasher and Gnipper\". The real name of his wife, Mum, has also never been given (again in the same letter, it was stated that her actual name is \"Dennis's Mum\"). In the 2012 revamp, he was redrawn to look more like Dennis. This was explained in 2015 as Dad now being the grown up version of the 1980s Dennis the Menace, making the 1980s Dad a Granddad. \n\nBea is Dennis's little sister, born in issue 2931, dated 19 September 1998. She has her own strip (\"Bea\", originally \"Beaginnings\") and sometimes appears in \"Dennis the Menace and Gnasher\". Bea wears a stripy yellow and black vest, this is a pun on her name as the colours are the same as the colours on a Bumble bee.\n\nGranny is Dennis's and Bea's 80-year-old grandmother. In the late 1980s/early 1990s, she got her own strip \"Go, Granny, Go!\" drawn by Brian Walker. This transformed her from the indulgent Granny who used the Demon Whacker when necessary to a very active elderly lady who enjoyed motorbikes, similar to Cuddles and Dimples's granny, partly because, by this time, characters in The Beano were no longer punished with the slipper. She also appeared regularly in the 2009 TV series, where she is married to a man who is presumed to be Dennis's granddad.\n\nDenise is Dennis's cousin, who bears a striking resemblance to Beryl the Peril, although she also wears a red and black striped jumper. She appeared in just a few stories, visiting along with her cat Santa Claws. She generally managed to out-menace Dennis, showing considerable fortitude against the Softies, and at the local boxing club. Santa Claws also appeared in a Roger the Dodger strip in the 2008 Beano Annual.\n\nGnasher is a black dog (an \"Abyssinian wire-haired tripehound\") who first appeared in issue 1363, dated 31 August 1968. He has extremely strong teeth that can leave teethmarks in seemingly anything, and enjoys chasing postmen. His name comes from the British slang for teeth (gnashers), which in turn comes from the French \"ganache\" meaning \"jowl\", a word also used in chocolate manufacture. In the first ever Dennis the Menace strip, the family also had a pet chihuahua, who has not since appeared.\n\nSince 1986, Gnasher has had a son, Gnipper, who appears with him in the separate strip (\"Gnasher and Gnipper\"). Gnipper is owned by Dennis the Menace. He first appeared in issue 2286, dated 10 May 1986 after a story arc in which Gnasher went missing, this story arc was reprinted in the Dennis the Menace Annual 1990 as a 16-page story entitled \"Who's Gnicked Gnasher\". Gnipper's name is a pun since 'to nip' something means to give something a small bite, while 'nipper' is a slang term for a young child.\nGnasher also has several daughters: Gnatasha, Gnaomi, Gnanette, Gnorah and Gnancy, although these are rarely seen. Gnatasha had her own strip in \"The Beezer\" and \"Topper\", and appeared in the Beezer Book 1994. Gnasher also used to have another strip, \"Gnasher's Tale\", which began in 1977 and continued for nine years until the title was changed to Gnasher and Gnipper following Gnipper's introduction.\n\nRasher is a pig, first seen in issue 1920, dated 5 May 1979. He loves to eat swill and was rescued by Dennis. Rasher also has children: Oink, Snort, Grunt, Squeal, and Squeak. He used to have his own strip called \"Rasher\", which started in 1984 and appeared regularly for four years before making sporadic appearances until 1995, Rasher's strip also appeared for a few weeks in 2010. He was believed to have been dropped after the strip was revamped in 2009, but he made a surprise return to the strip in 2011. In the 2009 TV series, Rasher and Gnipper are owned by Dennis's Granny.\n\nDennis has been seen with his pet spider called Dasher. He first appeared in about 1987, as a tool to scare Walter, and was the mascot of the Beano website when it launched in 1997. Originally, the spider was all black, but when it reappeared in 1997, it was red and black, matching Dennis's jersey. He appeared a few times from 1997–2008, and than reappeared in the 2011 and 2016 Halloween issue.\n\nDennis has two main friends: Curly (real name Crispin Lee Shepherd), who has a lot of strawberry-blonde, curly hair, was the first to appear, debuting months after the strip started in 1951. Although Curly and Dennis get into many fights, they still remain the best of friends, and Pieface (real name Kevin Peter Shepherd), whose favourite food is pies. Dennis, Gnasher, Curly and Pieface are collectively called \"The Menaces\". They all are in a band called \"Dennis and the Dinmakers\". Pieface currently has his own strip in The Beano as well as his 'pet' Paul the Potato. They are both by Nigel Auchterlounie and Diego Jourdan. Since the 2017 revamp, however, Curly seems to have largely disappeared when he moved. In his place are two girls, Rubidium von Screwtop (from The Beano’s ‘Rubi’s Screwtop Science’ strip) and Jemima Jones (from the comic’s ‘JJ’s Jokes’ strip). Despite Dennis’s previous resentment towards most girls in earlier years, he accepts them as his friends. During the 1980s, a third boy known as \"Toadface McGurty\" was also one of Dennis' friends.\n\nThe rival gang to the Menaces is the Softies, a group of children who enjoy things such as teddy bears, dolls and flowers. The most famous, Dennis's greatest sworn enemy, is a character called Walter, sometimes called the \"Prince of Softies\". He has a pet poodle called Foo-Foo. The two most other frequently seen Softies are Algernon 'Spotty' Perkins and Bertie Blenkinsop. Other softies, seen less often, have included Bennie Benry, Sweet William, Dudley Nightshirt, Jeremy Snodgrass, Softy Matthew, Softy Pal Erasmus, Lisping Lester, Matilda (Walter's girlfriend introduced in the 1996 TV series), and Nervous Rex, a character who is scared of everything and everyone. For a brief time in the late 1970s/ early 1980s, Curly also appeared in the softies.\n\nThe Colonel is an old army colonel, who is often seen with toy soldiers and often makes references to being in battles which happened hundreds of years ago. In an episode of the animated TV series entitled 'Skull and Crossbones', his first name was revealed to be Godfrey.\n\nSergeant Slipper is the police sergeant who is always trying to catch Dennis for menacing. In the 1960s a well-known police officer was known as Slipper of the Yard, though \"slipper\" is also a nod to the instrument with which Dennis's father usually chastised him before corporal punishment was deemed politically incorrect.\n\nDennis's Teacher often appeared in \"Dennis the Menace\" strips from the early 1970s and has been replaced, although the character was absent for most of the intervening period, in the 2009 TV Series by another Teacher named Mrs Creecher.\n\nNasty Norman was a bully often seen as Dennis's rival.\n\nStanley Livingstone an explorer with a pet crocodile, who lived next door to Dennis. Seemingly replaced by the Colonel, though the character had disappeared a while before the Colonel first appeared. His name alludes to the explorers David Livingstone and H.M. Stanley.\n\n\n\n\n\n\nBBC News once called Dennis the 'definitive naughty boy'. Matthew Jarron of Dundee University, curator of a Beano exhibition, claimed that the strips 'blatant anti-establishment tone' is what keeps children entertained throughout the decades. Children's author and political columnist Michael Rosen said he enjoyed the prospect that 'In most children's books a bad child gets made good. But the great thing about Dennis is he never gets better'. Nick Newman cited his inspiration for a Private Eye strip based on the Menace due to the fact Dennis is 'relentless' and has 'no learning curve'. Jarron also argued that Dennis offers a sense of escapism in a modern cotton wool wrapped world stating 'Parents are so fearful of letting their children roam around. So Dennis can provide that vicarious pleasure of going out and doing anything. And it's menacing of a pretty benign kind'. Express called Dennis 'the child template for every post-war rebel without a cause'. John McShane, a comic historian further praised the strip calling Dennis 'an original looking character. In the early days it was not in full colour but had a red overlay, but Davy Law, the artist, made a virtue out of this necessity by having the red-and-black striped T-shirt. The mantra in design classes is: 'Black and Red will always be read.' And that spiky hair! Unforgettable. Then that cheeky expression. Cartoonists talk about drawings just 'coming right'; that expression is perfect. Dennis is not actually evil ... Dennis just wants fun and is prepared to accept the consequences'.\n\nAlongside praise from the press, Dennis encountered controversy amongst the media in the late 1990s and early 2000s for being 'homophobic' and a 'bully'. On the criticism, Maurice Heggie, a Dandy editor, stated 'I never saw him as a bully because the characters of the softies were so dreadful, they had no redeeming features either.' He went on to explain that 'if Dennis was bullying them, then there was a punishment. There was never a script out of DC Thomson where a bully succeeded – there was always a punishment – however horrible Dennis was with his water pistol, be sure that round the corner there was an elephant with a trunkful of water for him. He's changed over the years, but he's not changed ... He is essentially out for mischief all the time'. John McShane also defended the strip stating firmly that 'Dennis never got away with his pranks'. On whether the stories of Walter's homosexuality were true McShane affirmed that he didn't know but argued' He certainly needed to stand up for himself. Our sympathies were never with him because he didn't stand up to Dennis. Bullies have to be stood up to; another good lesson for any society.' In an article for the Guardian, Dennis is cited as 'Britain's longest surviving comic villain'.\n\nIn 2009, the strip gained negative media publicity after it was announced that new issues would draw inspiration from the TV series that aired the same year. In the series, Dennis did not use any weapons such as catapult, peashooter and water guns and his personality was re-established as naively troublesome rather than intentionally so. Gnasher was also forbidden to bite people. Their image was drastically revamped, in an attempt to make them more accessible to younger viewers. This was all to discourage violence and weaponry among children. Fans spoke out against The Beano's decision citing that 'Dennis is supposed to be a little bit edgy and a bit of a lovable rogue'. Kev F Sutherland, who wrote for The Beano in the early noughties, also spoke out against the makeover saying it was a 'bad idea' and argued 'if you pander too much to over-sensitive parents you will end with not very funny comedy'.\n\nDarts player Dennis Priestley is known as \"The Menace\" and wears a shirt with the familiar red and black horizontal bands. \nGrunge star Kurt Cobain occasionally wore a Dennis pullover (jumper/sweater), that Courtney Love bought from a Nirvana fan in Northern Ireland in 1992, on stage. In recent years, the satirical magazine Private Eye has carried comic strips featuring a character sometimes called Beano Boris or Boris the Menace, a blond-haired version of Dennis the Menace, parodying the politician Boris Johnson.\n\nIn The Feynman Lectures on Physics, Dennis the Menace appears as a character in the fourth chapter, Conservation of Energy.\n\nGuitarist Mike Campbell wears a shirt depicting Dennis and Gnasher in the music video for Tom Petty's song I Won't Back Down.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "39406779", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39406779", "title": "Disappearance of Martin Allen", "text": "Disappearance of Martin Allen\n\nMartin Allen (born 19 October 1964) is a British teenager who mysteriously disappeared on 5 November 1979. No trace of Allen has been found and his fate remains unknown.\n\nMartin Allen and his brothers grew up in a council flat in Hornsey, where their mother was a secretary at Tufnell Park Primary School. When Martin was 12 his father gained employment as a chauffeur to the Australian High Commissioner and the whole family moved to a cottage in the grounds of the Australian High Commission in Kensington, London. This was a significant change in circumstance and their new neighbours included the De Beers jewellery family. Margaret Thatcher and Ted Heath were regular visitors to the street and Thatcher had a passing acquaintance with Allen's father.\n\nMartin attended the Central Foundation Grammar School in Old Street and was described as intelligent, good at French, maths and drawing. Martin was a shy boy, young for his age, and not the type to run away from home.\n\nOn 5 November 1979, Allen travelled home from school on the London Underground. His intention was to go to see his older brother, Bob, who lived near Holloway Road, but he needed to go home first in order to collect some money. At around 3:50pm he said goodbye to some school friends on King's Cross station and set off in the direction of the Piccadilly line platform to travel home. Initial reports state that this was the last confirmed sighting of Martin. Later reports state that Martin came home around 5pm as witnessed by his brother Kevin but went straight out again. Allen failed to reach his brother Bob's home. The family were not alarmed that Martin did not come home that night as they knew that if it got too late Martin would stay at his brother Bob's house. The next day the family hadn't heard anything. At 7pm Mrs Allen rang Bob. The parents phoned Martin's best friend, Robert, who told them Martin had not been at school, the parents then called the police.\n\nWhen he was reported missing, a large-scale police operation was launched supported by a media campaign. This failed to locate Allen. The police searched Martin's bedroom in the family cottage for 9 hours but did not find any fingerprints not even any belonging to Martin himself.\n\nAfter a TV appeal 5 weeks after the disappearance a male witness came forward to report seeing a man accompanying a boy acting suspiciously at Gloucester Road Tube station at 4:15pm on the day of the disappearance. This was about half an hour after Martin disappeared. The witness reported that the man was standing with his arm around the shoulder of a boy resembling Martin. The boy appeared distressed and both parties appeared to be nervous as they got onto a Tube train. The witness saw the man prod the boy in the back and overheard him tell the boy not to try to run when the pair left the train at Earl's Court station. The witness described the man as 6 ft tall, in his 30s, well built, with very blonde hair and moustache and was wearing a denim jacket and trousers.\n\nThe investigation to find the identity of the man was described at the time as London's biggest ever house-to-house search. It included a visit to every property in Earls Court, the publication of an artist's impression and the wide circulation of Identikit pictures of the man. Investigators eliminated 200 possible suspects, spoke to 50,000 people and collected 600 statements during the inquiry. The identity of the man was never discovered.\n\nAllen's brother Jeffrey alleged that in the early stages of the police investigation the detective responsible for the original 1979 investigation had told the Allen family that there were “high-up people involved” and that they should stop talking and “not take it further because someone will get hurt”.\n\nIn 1984, a book on the case by writer Anton Gill was published by Corgi Books.\n\nIn 1998 it was reported that police in Liverpool, acting on an anonymous tip off, had discovered a ‘shrine’ dedicated to Martin at the home of an alleged paedophile. Officers reportedly visited the house of the 62-year-old man and found a makeshift shrine including newspaper cuttings, pictures and a headstone engraved \"In Memory of Martin Allen\". This bizarre development prompted a brief resurgence of interest in the case, but no new leads were forthcoming.\n\nIn 2009, police told Kevin and Jeffrey that the files on the investigation had been destroyed in a flood. In 2009 Allen's parents conceded they had no hope of seeing him alive again, believing him to have been abducted, they stated their wish simply to know what had happened and why.\n\nMartin's father, Tom, died in 2012. His mother has since also passed away.\n\nThe case was closed in the 1980s, but reopened in 2009 in light of new information. The officer leading the new police investigation admitted that police were baffled by the case and that, despite a massive initial inquiry and a good response from the public, they had few leads. The police interviewed serial killer Dennis Nilsen twice about Martin's disappearance. No evidence of a connection was found.\n\nIn 2012, British police initiated a number of new investigations into child abuse allegations dating back over the previous 20–30 years. This included a re-investigation of claims of child abuse at the Elm Guest House. Elm House was a London guest house where it was known that exploitation and abuse of children had taken place repeatedly over a prolonged period of time during the 1970s and 1980s. The location of Elm Guest House, along with the known predatory activities of the individuals involved there have led to media speculation that Martin and another boy, eight-year-old Vishal Mehotra could have been abducted (and later murdered) by paedophiles active at the guest house around that time.\n\nin 2015 Operation Midland officers told Kevin to “prepare for the worst” as they had “credible evidence” from a VIP gang survivor that Martin had been murdered. Operation Midland interviewed a man known only as 'Nick' who alleged that he saw three boys being murdered by the paedophile network, one was run over, another strangled by a Conservative MP and the third killed in front of a government minister. 'Nick' told police that former Tory MP Harvey Proctor had been responsible for two of the murders and had been implicated in the third. Proctor denied any and all allegations and did not recognise an E-FIT photograph of the boy when questioned. The allegations were proved false and 'Nick' was proved to be a fantasist. In April 2015 it was announced by the police that some of the lost evidence had been rediscovered.\n\nIn May 2016 Operation Malswick superseded Operation Midland and was formed specifically to re-investigate Martin Allen's case.\n\n"}
{"id": "58576947", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58576947", "title": "Dmitry and Natalia Baksheevy", "text": "Dmitry and Natalia Baksheevy\n\nDmitry Baksheev (born January 28, 1982) and Natalia Baksheeva (born January 25, 1975), are family from Krasnodar who were accused of killing a local woman. According to rumors, the Baksheevs are also responsible for a series of murders and cannibalistic acts. At the moment, the Investigative Committee of Russia is verifying the couple's involvement in other crimes that have occurred in the region.\n\nDmitry was born in 1982, and Natalia in 1975. Natalia worked for some time as a senior nurse in the sanitation department of the Krasnodar Higher Military Aviation School of AK Serov pilots, but was dismissed due to chronic alcoholism. Dmitry had been tried for robbery and car theft, but by the time of the murder, all of his convictions had been extinguished. He worked as an apartment repairman and a general worker. The Baksheevs had lived together since 2012 in a school dormitory, the room being inherited by Natalia from her previous husband. The couple led an antisocial lifestyle.\n\nThe Baksheevs' crimes were discovered by accident: Dmitry lost his mobile phone, on which there pictures of him with human remains, even holding a severed human hand in one of them. The phone was later found by road workers and immediately reported to the police. At the interrogation he claimed that he had found the remains in the bushes, but later confessed to killing a woman.\n\nAs the investigation later found out, the victim of the Baksheevs was a resident of Krasnodar, Elena Vakhrusheva (born March 5, 1982 in Omutninsk). The murder occurred on September 8 during a joint alcohol drinking session, when a sudden quarrel began between Natalia and Elena. Natalia then told her husband to kill her rival, also actively participating in the murder herself. Elena died as a result of multiple stab wounds. Then the Baksheevs dismembered the corpse, keeping some of the remains in their home, and throwing away others in the surrounding area.\n\nDuring the investigation into the activities in the Baksheev household, fragments of a human body in saline solution, food and frozen meat parts of unknown origin were found. In the basement of the house and the adjoining territory, the remains of the deceased's body were found and seized, while the food and frozen meat fragments were sent for examination.\n\nInitially, the criminal case was initiated with a murder charge, but the Baksheevs were later charged with group murder. The case was referred to the first department for investigation of special importance.\n\nOn September 28, Vadim Bugaenko, the head of the Investigative Department of the Russian Democratic Republic for the Krasnodar Krai, told reporters that the remains found in the Baksheevs' apartment belonged to one person.\n\nAlso, a procedural check was initiated on the fact of leaked photos from Dmitry's phone, which led to speculations about the family of serial killer-cannibals that operated in the city.\n\nThe story quickly overgrew with rumors, according to which the couple had started hunting people since 1999. The cannibals tortured their victims before killing them, and made various dishes from the corpses, keeping the remains canned. According to initial reports, Natalia allegedly supplied the canned food with human meat to the school where she worked at. Later it was suggested that the Baksheevs distributed such canned food to the Krasnodar catering establishments, but these rumors were quickly refuted. Also, the media published a rumor that Dmitry Baksheev allegedly confessed to a murder committed in 2012, and Natalia - to 30 murders. However, the Investigative Committee stated several times that they had no such data on a series of murders for cannibalism by a married couple, and that in the Baksheev case there was only one murder. Finally, it was also rumored that during the search of the Baksheevs' apartment, 19 pieces of human skin, 7 body parts, photos of eerie dishes, canned food with human meat, including mammary glands, and even cooking recipes for humans were seized.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "27727794", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27727794", "title": "Dzhambulat Khatokhov", "text": "Dzhambulat Khatokhov\n\nDzhambulat \"Dzhambik\" Khatokhov (born 24 September 1999) is the world's heaviest child since 2003, according to the Guinness Book of Records.\n\nAt the age of eight, Dzhambik and his mother visited Japan to be part of a television program, \"Impossible\", on Fuji Television. His mother, Nelya Kabardarkova, who lives comfortably because of her son's fame, has denied all accusations of fuelling his growth and says she is encouraging Dzhambik's wish to become a sumo wrestler. Dzhambik also attends sumo battles. In 2003, he wrestled Georgy Bibilauri, another large teenager in the Georgian capital Tbilisi. By the age of nine, Dzhambik weighted .\n\nDoctors are unsure of the cause of his fast growth. In 2008, the British doctor Ian Campbell, one of the world's leading experts in obesity, visited Dzhambik and performed a series of tests on him at a Moscow clinic where he is treated every year for his obesity. The tests showed that 9 year old Dzhambik's bones were the size of an average 13-year-old boy. He was also tested for anabolic steroids, which can cause abnormal bone growth, but the results were negative. As shown on an episode of \"Body Shock\", Campbell and other health care professionals urged Dzambik's mother to help the boy eat a better diet and lose weight to improve his health, but Nelya rejected their advice and insisted the boy was healthy and capable of becoming a sumo wrestler or other sportsman. In 2006, journalist Nick Patton Walsh wrote in \"The Guardian\" that Nelya demanded money in order for him to meet Dzambik; Walsh hestitated as such payments were against \"Guardian\" policy but eventually relented, paying £160 or about 8000 rubles.\n\nDzhambik's size has earned him the nickname Sosruko after an ancient hero from local mythology. Sosruko was a giant, a fierce warrior who protected his people and embodied qualities people in the Caucasus greatly respect: strength and size. According to Nelya Kabardarkova, her son's grandfather was also known as a Bogatyr, a Russian word for a sort of gentle giant.\n\nDzhambik has appeared on many Russian TV Shows, but gained world recognition through the UK Channel 4 series BodyShock in the episode \"World's Biggest Boy\" which aired on many TV channels around the world.\n"}
{"id": "9148703", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9148703", "title": "Fernando Lugo", "text": "Fernando Lugo\n\nFernando Armindo Lugo Méndez (; born 30 May 1951) is a Paraguayan politician who was President of Paraguay from 2008 to 2012. Previously he was a Roman Catholic priest and bishop, serving as Bishop of the Diocese of San Pedro from 1994 to 2005. He was elected as president in 2008, an election that ended 61 years of rule by the Colorado Party.\n\nIn 2012, he was removed from office through an impeachment process that neighboring countries deemed a coup d'état. He was elected to the Senate of Paraguay in the 2013 general elections.\n\nHe received his basic education at a religious school in Encarnación, and sold snacks on the streets.\n\nHis family was not particularly religious; by his own account, he never saw his father set foot in a church. However, they were active in Colorado Party politics. His maternal uncle, Epifanio Méndez Fleitas, was a co-conspirator in the 1954 Paraguayan coup d'etat that helped bring Alfredo Stroessner to power. However, he later fell out of favor with Stroessner and ultimately left the country. Fernando's father was imprisoned twenty times, and some of his elder siblings were sent into so-called exile.\n\nHis father wanted Lugo to become a lawyer, but at 18 Lugo entered a normal school, and began teaching in a rural community. He was well accepted by the community, which was very religious, but they had no priest. He said later that he was touched by that experience, and so discovered his vocation to the Roman Catholic priesthood. At age 19 he entered a seminary operated by the Society of the Divine Word. He was ordained a priest for the society on 15 August 1977. He was sent to Ecuador, where he served as a missionary for five years. In Ecuador he learned about liberation theology.\n\nLugo returned to Paraguay in 1982, and after a year, was sent to Rome for further academic studies. Lugo came back to Paraguay in 1987, two years before the Stroessner dictatorship's fall. Lugo was ordained a bishop on 17 April 1994, and received charge of the nation's poorest diocese, in the San Pedro diocese.\n\nLugo resigned his ordinary from the Diocese of San Pedro on 11 January 2005. He had requested laicization in order to run for office. However, the Holy See refused the request on the grounds that bishops could not undergo laicization, and also denied him the requested canonical permission to run for civil elected office. However, after Lugo won the presidential election, the Church granted his laicization.\n\nLugo jumped to the national arena by backing peasant claims for better land distribution. During 2006, opinion polls published by \"Diario ABC Color\" newspaper showed him as a possible choice for the opposition's presidential candidacy. Known as \"the bishop of the poor\", Lugo was seen in subsequent months as the most serious threat to the dominance of the Colorado Party on Paraguayan politics. Although he said he found the presidency of Hugo Chávez in Venezuela interesting, he made a point to distance himself from leftist leaders in Latin America, focusing more on social inequality in Paraguay.\nOn 23 February 2007, a \"Prensa Latina\" article noted that the Paraguayan Interior Ministry offered Lugo protection because of the death threats he received during the course of his political activities.\n\nAccording to a poll in February 2007, he was the leading contender in the April 2008 presidential election, with more than 37% of the voters' intention. On 29 October 2007, he registered as member of the small Christian Democratic Party of Paraguay (CDP), which allowed him to file as a candidate.\n\nThe CDP became the core of the Patriotic Alliance for Change, a coalition of more than a dozen opposition parties and social movements which backed Lugo for President. Federico Franco of the Authentic Radical Liberal Party, Paraguay's largest opposition party, was the candidate for Vice President.\n\nThe legality of Lugo's candidacy was questioned, because Article 235 of the Constitution forbids clerics of any religious denomination to hold elective office, and Pope Benedict XVI had rejected Lugo's resignation from the priesthood.\nHowever, on 16 November 2007, President Nicanor Duarte Frutos (also Chairman of the Colorado Party) announced that the Party would not object to Lugo's candidacy, In July 2008, the Pope laicized Lugo, which made the question moot.\n\nOn 20 April 2008, Lugo won the election by a margin of 10%, gaining a 42.3% vote share. The Colorado Party candidate, Blanca Ovelar, acknowledged that Lugo had an unassailable lead and conceded the race that same night at about 9 pm local time. Two hours later, President Duarte acknowledged that the Colorados had lost an election for the first time in 61 years. Lugo's swearing in marked the first time in Paraguay's history (the country gained independence in 1811) that a ruling party peacefully surrendered power to an elected member from the opposition. He became Paraguay's second leftist president (the first being Rafael Franco, who served from 1936 to 1937), and the first to be freely elected.\n\nLugo was sworn in as President on 15 August 2008, saying he would not accept the presidential salary because it \"belongs to more humble people\" and encouraged other politicians to refuse their salaries as well.\n\nHe initially named Alejandro Hamed as his foreign minister. During the campaign, Lugo had suggested that he would switch diplomatic relations from the Republic of China (Taiwan) to the People's Republic of China, thereby depriving the ROC of its last diplomatic ally in South America. However, after the inauguration, which had been attended by President Ma Ying-jeou from Taiwan, Lugo stated that he had no plans to switch recognition.\n\nOn 18 August 2008, Lugo named Margarita Mbywangi, a member of the Aché indigenous ethnic group, as secretary of indigenous affairs, the first indigenous person to hold such a position in Paraguay.\n\nTwo of the main promises of Lugo's presidential campaign were tackling corruption and encouraging land reform. A number of initiatives were introduced to improve the lives of Paraguay's poor, such as investments in low-income housing, the introduction of free treatment in public hospitals, and the introduction of cash transfers for Paraguay's most impoverished citizens.\n\n\nOn 15 June 2012, seventeen people were killed in a clash between landless farmers and the police who were trying to evict them; some sources consider that all this was taken as a pretext to expel Lugo. The Chamber of Deputies cited this event as well as insecurity, nepotism and a controversial land purchase to vote 76 to 1 to impeach Lugo on 21 June 2012. The Senate took up the case the next day. The impeachment was attended by a delegation of Foreign Affairs ministers from the other nations of the Union of South American Nations. The vote ended with 39 votes for Lugo's removal and four for his continuity, which ended his mandate and turned Federico Franco into the new president of Paraguay. Lugo announced that he would denounce the case to the Inter-American Court of Human Rights, stating that the time to prepare a legal defence, just two hours, may be unconstitutional. The removal of Lugo was followed by demonstrations by his supporters.\n\nThe presidents of Paraguay's neighbouring countries rejected Lugo's removal from office, and compared it to a coup d'état. Brazilian president Dilma Rousseff proposed suspending Paraguay's membership in Mercosur and the Union of South American Nations. Cristina Fernández de Kirchner of Argentina, Rafael Correa of Ecuador and Leonel Fernández of the Dominican Republic announced that they would not recognize Franco as president. Condemnation also came from more conservative governments in the region, such as Colombia and Chile. Lugo's removal has drawn comparisons to the ouster of Honduras' Manuel Zelaya in 2009; like the ouster of Lugo it was defended as legal and constitutional by its supporters while being denounced as a coup across the Latin American political spectrum.\n\nLugo himself accepted his ouster, saying that any legal and realistic chance of reinstating him ended when the Supreme Court of Paraguay declared his impeachment and confirmed his removal, and the electoral court recognized Franco as the new president. However, he denounced it as \"a congressional coup.\"\n\nIn the 2013 election to replace his interim presidential replacement Lugo ran as a senate candidate. He was elected as member of Paraguayan Senate representing left-wing coalition Frente Guasú.\n\nAs Lugo was unmarried during his presidency, he designated his elder sister, Mercedes Lugo, as First Lady of Paraguay.\n\nIn August 2010, Lugo was diagnosed with non-Hodgkin lymphoma. He continued his duties as president of Paraguay while undergoing treatment.\n\nHe also studied at Pontifical Gregorian University in Rome.\n\nLugo fathered several children out of wedlock including one that was allegedly the result of sexual assault. Additionally, he conceived one child with a sixteen-year-old girl (Paraguay's age of consent is 14) while he was a bishop.\n\n"}
{"id": "57391711", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57391711", "title": "Francisco Antonio Laureana", "text": "Francisco Antonio Laureana\n\nFrancisco Antonio Laureana (born 1952 in Corrientes - died in San Isidro on February 27, 1975) was a young Argentine killed by the Buenos Aires police, who believed him to be a rapist and serial killer called the \"Satyr of San Isidro\", who for a period of six months - from 1974 and 1975 - raped 15 women, of whom he murdered 13. He killed most of victims on Wednesdays and Thursdays near 6:00 P.M.\n\nThe police reconstructed the events based on what they believed to be a series of murders and the psychological profile of the murderer. Francisco Laureana, 22, had been an intern in a Catholic school in the city of Corrientes in northern Argentina.\nThe police claimed that Laureana had fled Corrientes because he had raped and hanged a nun from the stairs of the school. In July 1974, he moved to the city of San Isidro (in the north of the Greater Buenos Aires), where he worked as an artisan selling hoops, bracelets and necklaces. He married a woman who had three children.\n\nBefore going to work, he would say to his wife: \"Do not let the kids outside because there are many degenerates.\"\n\nAlmost every Wednesday and Thursday, about 6 o'clock in the evening, a woman or girl disappeared in the city. Their bodies were found shortly afterward in vacant lots, with signs of having been raped and killed savagely. Some victims were strangled and others shot with a .32 caliber revolver.\nThe victims were mainly women who sunbathed in nearby villas or who waited at bus stops. The \"satyr\" always stole something from his victims, such as rings, bracelets, chains, etc., which he kept as trophies in a boot at home. Sometimes he would return to the crime scene weeks later to relive the experience.\n\nDue to the repeated modus operandi, police and forensics expert Osvaldo Raffo believed that the deaths could be the work of a single individual.\n\nAfter committing one of his homicides, a witness saw the perpetrator fleeing on the roof of a house, but he was shot at with a gun. Said witness was unharmed and was key to making an identikit of the suspect that began to circulate around the city.\n\nOn Thursday, February 27, 1975, an eight-year-old girl saw Francisco Laureana and thought he looked like the serial killer. After telling her mother, the woman pretended to call her husband but notified the authorities. Laureana passed by, smiled, and continued on.\n\nThe police found him a few blocks away and because his characteristics were similar to the idenkit's, they approached the suspect, asking him to accompany them for an interrogation. According to the police report, Laureana then took a gun from his shoulder bag and started firing at the officers, initiating a shootout in which he was shot in the shoulder. The badly injured Laureana escaped, hiding from the police in a chicken coop near a mansion. However, a dog \"marked\" Laureana's hiding place to its owner, prompting the police to approach the coop and pepper Laureana with bullets.\n\nThe authorities regretted killing him, as they wanted to interrogate him about his motives for committing murders. Two hens were found dead in the coop (it is unknown if the police or Laureana with his violent urges killed them). When his wife was informed, she said that \"There must have been a mistake. My husband could not have done all that. He was a good father, a good husband, and a craftsman who loved what he did.\"\n\nAs the killer was a fetishist, many of his crimes were solved when the police found the boot in which the victims' items were stashed, along with firearms.\n\nThe case of Francisco Antonio Laureana, one of the most prolific murderers in Argentine history, went relatively unnoticed due to the complex political climate during the government of Isabel Perón.\n\n"}
{"id": "51378663", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51378663", "title": "Frederick Dello Russo", "text": "Frederick Dello Russo\n\nFrederick Dello Russo is an American politician and funeral director who served as a member of the Medford, Massachusetts city council, Mayor of Medford (a ceremonial position), and the Massachusetts House of Representatives.\n"}
{"id": "73682", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=73682", "title": "Geoffrey A. Landis", "text": "Geoffrey A. Landis\n\nGeoffrey Alan Landis (; born May 28, 1955) is an American scientist, working for the National Aeronautics and Space Administration (NASA) on planetary exploration, interstellar propulsion, solar power and photovoltaics. He holds nine patents, primarily in the field of improvements to solar cells and photovoltaic devices and has given presentations and commentary on the possibilities for interstellar travel and construction of bases on the Moon, Mars, and Venus.\n\nSupported by his scientific background Landis also writes hard science fiction.\nFor these writings he has won a Nebula Award, two Hugo Awards, and a Locus Award, as well as two Rhysling Awards for his poetry. He contributes science articles to various academic publications.\n\nLandis was born in Detroit, Michigan and lived in Virginia, Maryland, Philadelphia, and Illinois during his childhood. His senior education was at New Trier High School, Winnetka, Illinois. He holds undergraduate degrees in physics and electrical engineering from the Massachusetts Institute of Technology (MIT) and a PhD in solid-state physics from Brown University. He is married to science fiction writer Mary A. Turzillo and lives in Berea, Ohio!\n\nAfter receiving his doctorate at Brown University, Landis worked at the NASA Lewis Research Center (now NASA Glenn) and the Ohio Aerospace Institute before accepting a permanent position at the NASA John Glenn Research Center, where he does research on Mars missions, solar energy, and technology development for future space missions. He holds nine patents, and has authored or co-authored more than 300 published scientific papers in the fields of astronautics and photovoltaics.\n\nLandis has commented on the practicalities of generating oxygen and creating building materials for a future Moon base in \"New Scientist\", and on the possibilities of using readily available metallic iron to manufacture steel on Mars.\n\nHe is the recipient of numerous professional honors, including the American Institute of Aeronautics and Astronautics \"Aerospace Power Systems Award\", the NASA \"Space Flight Awareness award\" and the Rotary National Award for Space Achievement \"Stellar Award\" in 2016.\n\nMuch of Landis' technical work has been in the field of developing solar cells and arrays, both for terrestrial use and for spacecraft.\n\nLandis has worked on a number of projects related to developing technology of human and robotic exploration of Mars and scientific analysis of the Martian surface, including studies of the performance of photovoltaic cells in the Mars environment, the effect of Martian dust on performance, and technologies for dust removal from the arrays.\nHe was a member of the Rover team on the Mars Pathfinder mission, and named the Mars rock, \"Yogi\". He is a member of the science team on the 2003 Mars Exploration Rovers mission, where his work includes observations of Martian dust devils, atmospheric science measurements, and observation of frost on the equator of Mars. He was also a member of the Mars ISPP Propellant Precursor experiment team for the Mars Surveyor 2001 Lander mission, an experiment package to demonstrate manufacture of oxygen from the Martian atmosphere. (which was cancelled after the failure of the Mars Polar Lander).\n\nHe has also done work on analyzing concepts for future robotic and human mission to Mars. These include the Mars Geyser Hopper spacecraft, a Discovery-class mission concept that would investigate the springtime carbon dioxide Martian geysers found in regions around the south pole of Mars, the Human Exploration using Real-time Robotic\nOperations (\"HERRO\") concept for telerobotic Mars exploration, and concepts for use of In-situ resource utilization for a Mars Sample Return mission. In a 1993 paper, he suggested the use of a phased program of Mars exploration, with a series of incremental achievements leading up to human landings on Mars.\n\nLandis was a fellow of the NASA Institute for Advanced Concepts (\"NIAC\"), where he worked on a project investigating the use of laser- and particle-beam pushed sails for propulsion for interstellar flight. In 2002 Landis addressed the annual convention of the American Association for the Advancement of Science on the possibilities and challenges of interstellar travel in what was described as the \"first serious discussion of how mankind will one day set sail to the nearest star\". Dr. Landis said, \"This is the first meeting to really consider interstellar travel by humans. It is historic. We're going to the stars. There really isn't a choice in the long term.\" He went on to describe a star ship with a diamond sail, a few nanometres thick, powered by solar energy, which could achieve \"10 per cent of the speed of light\".\n\nHe was selected again as a NASA Innovative Advanced Concepts fellow in 2012, with an investigation of a Landsailing rover for Venus exploration, and in 2015 was the science lead on a NIAC study to design a mission to Neptune's moon Triton.\n\nIn 2017, Landis's work was the subject of the book \"Land-Sailing Venus Rover With NASA Inventor Geoffrey Landis\", published by World Book publishing as part of their \"Out of This World\" book series for ages 10–14+.\n\nIn 2005–2006, he was named the Ronald E. McNair Visiting Professor of Astronautics at MIT, and won the AIAA Abe M. Zarem Educator Award in 2007.\nLandis has also been a faculty member of the International Space University; in 1998 he was on the faculty of the Department of Mining, Manufacturing, and Robotics in the Space Studies Program, and in 1999 he was on the faculty of the 12th Space Studies Program at the Suranaree University of Technology in Nakhon Ratchasima, Thailand. and co-chair of the student project \"Out of the Cradle.\" He was also a guest lecturer at the ISU 13th Space Studies Program in Valparaíso, Chile, and the 2015 Space Studies Program in Athens, Ohio.\n\nAs a writer, he was an instructor at the Clarion Writers Workshop at Michigan State University in 2001. He was a guest instructor at the Launch Pad workshop for 2012.\n\nLandis' first science fiction story, \"Elemental\", appeared in \"Analog\" in December 1984, and was nominated for the 1985 Hugo Award for Best Novella. as well as earning him a nomination for the John W. Campbell Award for Best New Writer.\nIn the field of science fiction, Landis has published over 70 works of short fiction, and two books. He won the 1989 Nebula Award for best short story for \"Ripples in the Dirac Sea\" (\"Asimov's Science Fiction,\" October 1988), the 1992 Hugo Award for \"A Walk in the Sun\" (\"Asimov's Science Fiction,\" October 1991), and the 2003 Hugo for his short story \"Falling Onto Mars\" (\"Analog Science Fiction and Fact\", July/Aug 2002).\n\nHis first novel, \"Mars Crossing\", was published by Tor Books in 2000, winning a Locus Award. A short story collection, \"Impact Parameter (and Other Quantum Realities),\" was published by Golden Gryphon Press in 2001 and named as noteworthy by trade magazine \"Publishers Weekly\". He has also won the Analog Analytical Laboratory Award for the novelette \"The Man in the Mirror\" (2009). His 2010 novella \"The Sultan of the Clouds\" won the Sturgeon award for best short science fiction story, and was nominated for both the Nebula and Hugo awards.\n\nHe attended the Clarion Workshop in 1985, with other emerging SF writers such as Kristine Kathryn Rusch, Martha Soukup, William Shunn, Resa Nelson, Mary Turzillo and Robert J. Howe.\n\nLandis has also published a number of poems, much of it involving science fiction or science themes. He won the Rhysling Award twice, for his poems \"Christmas, after we all get time machines\" in 2000 (which also won the 2000 \"Asimov's Reader's Award\" for best poem), and for \"Search\" in 2009, and the Dwarf Stars Award in 2010, for the poem \"Fireflies\". He has won the Asimov's Reader's award for best poem three times, most recently in 2014, for his poem \"Rivers\". In 2009, he won 2nd place in the Hessler Street Fair poetry contest for his poem \"Five Pounds of Sunlight,\" and 1st place in 2010 for \"Human Potential.\"\n\nHis poetry collection \"Iron Angels\" was published in 2009.\n\nLandis has also written non-fiction and popular science articles, encyclopedia articles and columns for a large range of publications, including \"Analog Science Fiction and Fact\", \"Space Sciences\", \"Asimov's Science Fiction\", \"Spaceflight\", and \"Science Fiction Age\". His article \"The Demon Under Hawaii\" won the Analog Analytical Laboratory Award for best science article in 1993.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "16195668", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16195668", "title": "Gregorio Fernandez", "text": "Gregorio Fernandez\n\nDr. Gregorio Montenemayor-Fernández (May 25, 1904 – March 11, 1973) also known as Gregorio Fernandez was a film actor and director, and father of Rudy Fernandez.\n\nDr. Gregorio Montemayor-Fernández was born in Lubao, Pampanga on May 25, 1904 to Eugenio Fernández y Araneta and Maria Montemayor. Yoyong practically grew up in the town with a rich Zarzuela tradition that exposed him early to the performance arts.\n\nHis wife, Pilar is a member of the showbiz clan of Padilla whose relative include Rommel Padilla, Rustom Padilla, Robin Padilla. A physician. Grandfather of Mark Anthony Fernandez, Rap Fernandez and Renz Fernandez. Father-in-law of Lorna Tolentino. And father of Rudy Fernandez.\n\nHe spent his primary years at the Lubao Elementary School, then enrolled at the Pampanga High School (1921–25). Choosing to be a dental surgeon, he went to the Philippine Dental College. To help finance his studies, he worked at as a tax agent for the Bureau of Internal Revenue. He also started making the rounds of production companies and became an actor for Tomas Lichauco's Mayon Photoplay Corporation after auditioning in March 1928.\n\nThe movie with Mayon was never finished as Lichauco left for the United States. Undaunted, Yoyong auditioned next for Jose Nepomuceno and won a leading role in a 1928 film. The silent film, “Anak sa Ligaw” started his long and productive career in Philippine moviedom, both as a successful actor and an even more accomplished film director.\n\nYoyong still managed to make his parents happy by finishing his dentistry course in 1929 and passing the board that same year. After a short private practice in Lubao, he decided he could not resist the lure of the spotlight and went on to pursue a full-time career in acting. He did not find it difficult landing his next role given the resounding success of his first film. Yoyong's next assignment was a starring role in another silent-- “Yesterday, Today and Tomorrow” with Sofia Lotta, under the direction Faustino Lichauco of Mayon Photoplay. The picture was never released though, so Yoyong moved on to team up with Sofia yet again in the movie version of the popular Tagalog poem of Florentino Collantes, “Ang Lumang Simbahan”.\n\nThe newbie actor shared his good fortune with his kabalen and nephew, Rogelio Regidor, whom he introduced to Jose Nepomuceno when the “father of Philippine movies” was scouting for new talents. Nepomuceno took one look at the handsome 6-footer and cast him with another Kapampangan-American mestiza, Rosa Stagner. The couple was launched in the 1929 movie hit, “Ligaw ni Bulaklak” as Rogelio de la Rosa and Rosa del Rosario.\n\nYoyong was a much-sought after actor in the 1930s, appearing as a dandy in the film, “Collegian Love”. As a young sajonista influenced by American ways, he wore a blazer with a hanky sticking out of his pocket, and a white buntal hat that was to become his signature look. He appeared as the hero “Dimasalang” in 1930 and followed that up with “Moro Pirates” with Nena Linda. In the next two years, he was in “Ang Lihim ni Bathala” and “Taong Demonyo”, his first talking film.\n\nNot content with playing leading men and character roles in films, Gregorio transitioned to work behind the camera as a director. His first directorial debut was the movie, “Asahar at Kabaong” (Bridal Garland and Casket, 1937), starring Purita Santamaria, made under Philippine Films. His work was noticed by other film outfits and he steadily found freelance work, directing “Tatlong Pagkabirhen” for X’otic Films (1938), “Celia at Balagtas” and “Señorita” (1939), in which he directed his own nephew Rogelio de la Rosa, by then a big star. It was only shown shortly after World War II at the Life Theater in Quiapo.\n\nYoyong had an enduring and most productive career at LVN Studios, a film outfit began in 1938 by the legendary grand dame of Philippine movies, Dña. Narcisa de Leon. Dña. Sisang asked Yoyong to make a film out of the hit war drama play, “Garrison 13”, and the subsequent film version (in which he played a co-starring role to Linda Estrella) proved to be a blockbuster hit, earning an unprecedented P145,000 at Dalisay Theater alone. Yoyong became a favorite director of Dña. Sisang thereafter.\n\nHis LVN-produced films include “Dalawang Daigdig” ( as director-actor, 1946), “Miss Philippines\" (1947), “Puting Bantayog” (1948), “Kampanang Ginto”, “Capas” (1949), “Candaba” (“isang kapanapanabik na pelikula na tanging si G. Fernandez lamang ang maaaring mamahala!”), \"Kontrabando” (1950), “Bayan o Pag-ibig”, “Dugo sa Dugo” (1951), “Rodrigo de Villa” (a color film co-produced with Persari Films of Indonesia, 1952), “Iskwater”, “Philippine Navy”, “Dagohoy” (1953) and “Prinsipe Tiñoso”, “Singsing na Tanso” (1954).\n\n1955 was his best year ever, directing “Dalagang Taring” and the most acclaimed movie of the year, “Higit sa Lahat”, starring Rogelio de la Rosa and Emma Alegre. It garnered 6 awards at the FAMAS, including Best Picture, Best Actor and Best Director. As the Philippine entry to the 1956 Southeast Asian Film Festival, “Higit sa Lahat” won for Yoyong a “Best Director” trophy and another “Best Actor” award for Rogelio de la Rosa. The next year, he was kept busy with the 18th anniversary offering of LVN Pictures, “Medalyang Perlas” and the classic, “Luksang Tagumpay”, which won Best Picture honors at the FAMAS.\n\nThe close of the decade saw him megging “Hukom Roldan”, “P10,000 na Pag-ibig”(1957), “Ana Maria” and another critical hit “Malvarosa” (1958). The film won for Rebecca del Rio, a Best Supporting Actress trophy at the Asian Film Festival and a FAMAS International Prestige Award of Merit. He ended the 50s with “Ay , Pepita”, “Casa Grande” and “Panagimpan” (1959) and started the 60s with “Emily” and “Kung Ako’y Mahal Mo” and “Awit ng mga Dukha”.\n\nIn 1961, he retired in San Juan together with his family. He had eight children with his beautiful wife, Marie Paz, daughter of Bulacan governor Jose Padilla Sr. whom he married in 1936 in Lubao: Ma. Luisa (aka Merle Fernandez, bold star of the 70s), Maria Paz, Maria Isabel, Jose, Maria Teresita, Emmanuel, Rodolfo (aka the late Rudy “Daboy” Fernandez) and Mary Anne. But he came out of retirement in 1963 to direct “The Macapagal Story”, based on the life of his fellow Lubeño Pres. Diosdado P. Macapagal. He did two more movies (“Ang Nasasakdal”, 1963, “Daing” 1971) before he permanently called it quits, but not before being awarded the 1967 “Gantimpalang Gatpuno” (Mayor’s Award) as one of the 37 illustrious pioneers of Philippine Movies, on the occasion of Manila’s golden foundation day.\n\nDr. Gregorio M. Fernandez died in the late 1970s and left behind a legacy of classic and multi-awarded films, visual testaments to Kapampangan creativity at its best. His son Rudy continued that tradition until his death, but the torch has been passed on to Rudy's son (with Alma Moreno, also a Kapampangan), Mark Anthony Fernandez, himself a rising star of TV and Cinema. His grandfather Yoyong must be proud.\n\nDr. Gregorio Fernandez died on March 11, 1973 due to heart attack in Quezon City. He was buried to his hometown in Lubao, Pampanga. 35 years before his son Rudy Fernandez was buried at The Heritage Park in Taguig City on June 7, 2008.\n"}
{"id": "964022", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=964022", "title": "Handsome Lake", "text": "Handsome Lake\n\nHandsome Lake (Cayuga language: Sganyadái:yo, Seneca language: Sganyodaiyo) (Θkanyatararí•yau• in Tuscarora) (1735 – 10 August 1815) was a Seneca religious leader of the Iroquois people. He was a half-brother to Cornplanter, a Seneca war chief.\n\nHandsome Lake, a leader and prophet, played a major role in reviving traditional religion among the Haudenosaunee (People of the Longhouse), or Six Nations Iroquois Confederacy. He preached a message that combined traditional Haudenosaunee religious beliefs with a revised code meant to revive traditional consciousness to the Haudenosaunee after a long period of cultural disintegration following colonization. This message was eventually published as the \"Code of Handsome Lake\" and is still practiced today.\n\nHandsome Lake was born as Hadawa'ko (\"Shaking Snow\") around 1735 in the Seneca village of Canawaugus, on the Genesee River near present-day Avon, New York. Very little is known of his parents; his mother, Gahonnoneh, later had an affair with a Dutch fur trader and gunsmith, resulting in the birth of Handsome Lake's half-brother, Cornplanter. Handsome Lake was born into the Turtle clan of his mother, as the Iroquois have a matrilineal kinship system. He was eventually adopted and raised by the Wolf clan people. Born during a time when the Seneca nation was at its peak of prosperity through fur trading, Handsome Lake witnessed the gradual deterioration of his society. Other well-known relatives in Handsome Lake's family included Governor Blacksnake, Red Jacket and Half-Town.\n\nIn 1794 he signed the U.S. treaty with the Six Nations (known as the Pickering Treaty). He visited Washington, D.C. with Cornplanter in 1802.\n\nSeveral factors contributed to the erosion of morale and spiritual welfare of the Iroquois/Haudenosaunee. At its peak in the early 18th century, the Haudenosaunee controlled much of what is now the midwestern United States, which it had conquered through decades of warring against the tribes native to those areas in the Beaver Wars.\n\nAfter the American Revolution, the Haudenosaunee lost most of their land in New York and Pennsylvania and were forced to live on reservations, including in Canada, as punishment for taking the side of the British Crown in the revolution. Although these reservations included much of the prime real estate in Western New York, including several of the prominent creek and river valleys, the small and fragmented native lands were separated by wide swaths of land that was eventually earmarked for American settlement in what would be known as the Holland Purchase. This dislocation followed years of social disruption due to epidemics of infectious disease and major wars.\n\nAlcohol was introduced to the tribes in this time frame, a substance to which numerous Haudenosaunee (including Handsome Lake himself) began consuming in excess, exacerbating the erosion of the traditional family unit. This situation was a result of the cultural clash between the fledgling United States and the once equally powerful Six Nations people. The traditional religious rituals were no longer applicable to the environment in which the Haudenosaunee people found themselves.\n\nIn 1799, after a period of illness due to many years of excessive alcoholism, Handsome Lake had the visions that gave him the power to become a prophet. In his vision, he was warned by three spiritual messengers presented him with ideals that he must enforce among his people. They told him of concerns he must enforce, like learning the English language and preservation of their land. Shortly after Handsome Lake's first vision, he ceased drinking alcohol. When he regained his health, he began bringing a message of Gaiwiio (the \"Good Word\") to his people. He preached against drunkenness and other evil practices. His message outlined a moral code that was eventually referred to as the Code of Handsome Lake. Today it is called the Longhouse Religion.\n\nHandsome Lake abolished societal sins, attempting to cleanse the tribes of all immoral actions. He threatened his people in order to show them the error of their ways. He insisted that Iroquois people must refrain from drinking, marital abuse, abortion, spouse and child abandonment, selling of land, overconsumption, factory farms, and witchcraft.\n\nThe rise of Handsome Lake's religion was more successful than most religions during that time because his code combined traditional Iroquois religion with Quaker values. Despite the clear presence of Christian values in his teachings, it is unclear how much contact with Christianity Handsome Lake had previous to his visions. His religion stressed survival without the sacrifice of the Iroquois identity, and recognized the need to make adjustments in order to survive in their changing world. Handsome Lake's ideals were eye opening and majority of people agreed with him. Those who opposed the code had reasons to believe that Handsome Lake was giving up on their old ways by altering the character of their religion. They saw Handsome Lake's new ideals as abandoning their history and forfeiting to Quaker ideals because Handsome Lake did not believe that they could survive with the world evolving around them.\n\nThe Code of Handsome Lake was one of the most successful uprisings during the time. His Code combined traditional Iroquois religious values with Christian values, and then-President Thomas Jefferson gave his endorsement to Handsome Lake's code in 1803. With the help of Handsome Lake’s relatives, his visions were written down and published in 1850. The Code of Handsome Lake remains practiced among the Seneca and is considered to be a traditional Indian religion. Beginning in the 1820s, it became traditional for the Code to be recited every September at Tonawanda in the Seneca Nation.\n\nHow America Was Discovered is a story told by Handsome Lake, and documented by Arthur C. Parker, about a young minister who meets the one he perceives to be the Lord, who then asks him to go to a new land and bring with him cards, money, a fiddle, whiskey, and blood corruption. In return the young minister will become rich. The young minister sought out Christopher Columbus, and with the help of his crew, traveled to the Americas. They turned back to report what they had seen, which caused an immigration of people from Europe to the Americas. Along with the people came the five things that aided in destroying the natives. The end reveals that the \"Lord\" in the gold castle was actually the devil, and that even he knew what he had caused was wrong.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "43337455", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43337455", "title": "Harold Ritchie", "text": "Harold Ritchie\n\nHarold L. Ritchie (born May 24, 1949) is an American Democratic politician, who has been since 2004 a member of the Louisiana House of Representatives for District 75. He was term-limited and ineligible to seek a fourth term in the nonpartisan blanket primary held on October 24, 2015.\n\nRitchie is a funeral director in Bogalusa in Washington Parish in southeastern Louisiana. He graduated in 1967 from Bogalusa High School and attended Louisiana Tech University in Ruston and Mississippi College in Clinton, Mississippi. He graduated in 1971 from Commonwealth College, specific institution not available.\n\nRepresentative Ritchie served on these House committees: (1) Insurance, (2) Ways and Means, (3) Enrollment, and Joint Capital Outlay.\n"}
{"id": "1768998", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1768998", "title": "Harpal Brar", "text": "Harpal Brar\n\nHarpal Brar (born 5 October 1939) is an Indian communist politician, writer and businessman, based in Britain. He is the founder and current Chairman of the Communist Party of Great Britain (Marxist–Leninist).\n\nBorn in Muktsar, Punjab, British India, Brar has lived and worked in Britain since 1962, first as a student, then as a lecturer in law at Harrow College of Higher Education (later merged into the renamed University of Westminster), and later in the textile business. Brar owns buildings in West London which he uses for CPGB-ML party activity, and he part-owns an internet shop called \"Madeleine Trehearne and Harpal Brar\" which sells shawls.\n\nBrar is the editor of a far-left political newspaper called \"Lalkar\", which was a paper belonging to the Indian Workers' Association before Brar inherited it. Brar has written multiple books on subjects such as Communism, Indian republicanism, imperialism, anti-Zionism, anti-Colonialism, and the British General Strike. He is also a co-founder of the Hands off China Campaign.\n\nBrar joined the Maoist Revolutionary Marxist-Leninist League but soon left to become a founder member of a small group, the Association of Communist Workers, as well as being a member of the Association of Indian Communists.\n\nHe and his comrades officially dissolved the ACW in 1997 to join Arthur Scargill's Socialist Labour Party, a breakaway from the Labour Party after its abandonment of the original version of Clause IV. Brar and his comrades worked to bring what they described as an Anti-Revisionist Marxist-Leninist programme to the SLP, but were eventually expelled seven years later.\n\nScargill expelled the entire Yorkshire Regional Committee and five members of the National Executive Committee. From this, in July 2004, the Communist Party of Great Britain (Marxist-Leninist) was formed, and Brar was elected as its chairman.\n\nAdopting positions maintained by Brar and his comrades since the 1960s, the CPGB-ML has been vigorously opposed to all those who work with or in any way endorse the Labour Party since its inception. Its stated aim on formation was to oppose opportunism in the working-class movement, revive the \"class against class\" programme embodied by the Communist Party of Great Britain during the 1920s, and to work for the establishment of socialism in Britain.\n\nThe Communist Party of Great Britain (Marxist–Leninist) was registered with the Electoral Commission in 2008 under the name \"Proletarian\", which is the title of the bi-monthly newspaper of the CPBG-ML. The party was registered \"to prepare for standing in elections\".\n\nOn 19 July 2008, Harpal Brar was one of the people who founded the Hands off China campaign. The campaign is dedicated to defending China and \"is aimed to defend China's sovereignty and territorial integrity\" and \"the country's just stance on issues of its vital national interest such as Taiwan and Tibet.\"\n\nBrar heavily disagrees with the belief that the fight for Indian Independence was a peaceful and pacifist movement, led entirely by Gandhi. He wrote a book on Indian history called \"Inquilab Zindabad: India's Liberation Struggle\", in which he argues that the fight for Indian independence was a violent and bloody class struggle, and goes onto accuse Gandhi of supporting British imperialism. The back cover of the book says:\nThere is a widespread myth spread by bourgeois historians that Gandhi and the Indian National Congress were solely responsible for achieving India's independence from the much-hated British Raj, and that they did it using only the message of non-violence, peaceful non-co-operation and civil disobedience.\nThe truth is quite the reverse. The heroes of the 1857 revolt, the Ghadar patriots, and Bhagat Singh and his comrades inspired and led the Indian masses in armed struggle as the best means of liberating their country from British colonial occupation.\nMany thousands of ordinary people and many hundreds of revolutionary leaders made the ultimate sacrifice in the pursuit of this noble cause. Their struggle is summed up by Bhagat Singh's popular slogan, \"Inquilab zindabad!\" (Long live revolution!), which electrified the Indian masses.\nIt is an insult to their memory, and to their self-sacrificing heroism, to credit India's independence to the most compromising, cowardly and obscurantist representatives of the India bourgeoisie.\nAll progressives, workers and peasants have a duty to honour these heroes, to perpetuate their memory and to learn from them in the continuing struggle against imperialism and exploitation.\n\nBrar defends the governments and leaders of the USSR until the appearance of \"Khrushchevite revisionism\" during the 20th Congress of the Communist Party of the Soviet Union in 1956. \"Lalkar\", the newspaper edited by Brar, criticises \"The British Road to Socialism\" (the programme of the original Communist Party of Great Britain) from its earliest version in 1951 as \"un-Marxist\" and regards the claim that Stalin approved it as a \"fiction\". Brar is seen as an unapologetic admirer of Stalin and has been attacked as an \"anachronism\" in the \"Weekly Worker\" publication of the Communist Party of Great Britain (Provisional Central Committee), which Brar in turn regards as Trotskyite propaganda.\n\nHe, along with his daughter Joti Brar, is an active member of the Stalin Society, the website of which contains articles denying Soviet wrongdoing in the Katyn massacre, the Ukrainian Famine (Holodomor), and the Moscow Trials which they blame on the Nazis, dismiss as propaganda, or describe as fair process, respectively.\n\nFor many years, he was on the executive of the Indian Workers Association (GB) and was the editor of that organisation's journal \"Lalkar\". He continues to publish the journal, but the IWA cut its ties with the paper in 1992, when members of the Executive Committee with affiliations to the Communist Party of India (Marxist) objected to Brar's publishing of an article that was mildly critical of the adoption of market socialism in China.\n\nSince 1992, Brar has self-published fourteen books on various aspects of Marxism, imperialism and revisionism. These works are a combination of original material and articles previously published in Lalkar and have been translated and distributed internationally by a number of sympathetic communist parties around the world.\n\n\nUK Parliament elections\nEuropean Parliament elections\nLondon Assembly elections (Entire London city)\n\n"}
{"id": "41321463", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41321463", "title": "Holly Hoffman", "text": "Holly Hoffman\n\nHolly Hoffman (née Wanner; March 15, 1966), is an American author, motivational speaker, and television personality. She is best known for competing on the reality competition show \"Survivor\", and for her book \"Your Winner Within\".\n\nHolly Wanner was born in Eureka, South Dakota, the youngest of three children. Her parents owned a grocery store, and as Wanner got older, she would spend her after-school time helping out at the store. Her life at home was more turbulent, though; as an adult, she would come to describe her childhood home life as having been \"abusive.\" Her father, an alcoholic, left the family when Wanner was in sixth grade. After her parents' divorce, she and her two older brothers were forced to get jobs to support the family. Her father died in 1990 at the age of 46.\n\nWhen Wanner got to high school, she became a star athlete in track. In 1982, she set the Eureka High School record in the 300-meter hurdles; the following year, she set the school record in the 100-meter hurdles. In 1984, the South Dakota Sportswriters Association named her the state’s High School Girls Athlete of the Year.\n\nAfter graduating high school, Wanner enrolled at Northern State University in nearby Aberdeen. There, she met a fellow student named Charlie Hoffman. They married in 1985.\n\nAfter their wedding, Holly Hoffman, along with her husband Charlie, established a cattle ranch outside Eureka, which she would help to manage even while still attending college and raising a family. In 1993, she founded a swim team in Eureka, which she would coach for 17 years. She was named Coach of the Year twice during her tenure. In addition, she has also worked as a high school volleyball referee.\n\nHoffman’s husband Charlie is a former Majority Whip in the South Dakota House of Representatives. From 2009 to 2015, he served three terms (of two years each) as a Republican representative in South Dakota’s 23rd legislative district.\n\nHoffman’s oldest child and only son, Austin Hoffman, is a State's Attorney. Hoffman’s second child and oldest daughter is Alex Hoffman, a former beauty queen who has held the titles of Miss South Dakota Teen USA (2006) and Miss South Dakota (2008). As Miss South Dakota, Alex placed in the top 15 of the 2009 Miss America pageant. Alex, like her brother Austin, is also a broadcast journalist, best known for her work at KETV in Omaha.\n\nHoffman’s youngest child and youngest daughter, Elizabeth Hoffman, also won the Miss South Dakota Teen USA pageant (2008), two years after her sister Alex won.\n\nAfter Hoffman’s children had all gone off to college, she decided to pursue a new adventure in life, so she applied to be on the TV series \"Survivor\". In 2010, she was one of 20 people selected to compete on the show’s 21st season, known as \"\". That season, the tribes were initially divided according to age: the Espada tribe would consist of the ten older players in the game, and the La Flor tribe would be made up of the ten younger players. The then-44-year-old Hoffman was initially placed on the Espada tribe.\n\nHoffman’s first five days in the game were rough. When she caught her tribemate Dan Lembo saying nasty things about her behind her back, she responded by taking his alligator shoes, filling them with sand, and leaving them in the ocean to sink. Soon after, she became so distraught, that she seriously considered quitting the game, until fellow tribemate Jimmy Johnson convinced her to stay. Ironically, Hoffman would be one of the castaways to vote off Johnson three days later.\n\nOn Day 28, Hoffman was on the winning team at the reward challenge, but she decided to give up her share of the reward in exchange for the whole tribe receiving a tarp and a can of rice, to replace the food and supplies lost in a fire a few days earlier. That same day, two players, NaOnka Mixon and “Purple Kelly” Shinn, announced that were planning on quitting the game. Hoffman, who had almost quit the game herself on Day Five, was now one of the castaways instrumental in trying to convince Shinn and Mixon to stay in the game. The two of them would end up quitting anyway.\n\nAt the Final Four, Hoffman was aligned with Chase Rice and Matthew “Sash” Lenahan, and the three of them were planning on eliminating Jud “Fabio” Birza. But when Birza won immunity, the three men, all of whom were original members of La Flor, joined together in eliminating Hoffman. She would finish the game fourth place overall, as the ninth jury member, the last female standing, and the last original Espada member standing. At the Final Tribal Council, she cast her vote for Rice to win the game, although Birza would end up winning the title of Sole Survivor.\n\nAt the reunion show, Hoffman made amends with Lembo, by giving him a pair of ostrich boots to replace the shoes which she had destroyed in Nicaragua.\n\nAfter \"Survivor: Nicaragua\" aired, series host Jeff Probst commended Hoffman for her turnaround over the course of the game, saying that he had never seen anyone “do a 180” like that. He also told her directly that she would do well as a public speaker. Inspired, she started giving speeches in 2011, and soon after formed her own company, Inner Depth LLC, to market her motivational speaking skills. In 2012, she wrote a book about her life experiences, entitled \"Your Winner Within\". The foreword was penned by her former \"Survivor\" tribemate, Jimmy Johnson.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "20505698", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20505698", "title": "Hussein Quwaian Al-Mutairi", "text": "Hussein Quwaian Al-Mutairi\n\nHussein Quwaian Al-Mutairi is a member of the Kuwaiti National Assembly, representing the fourth district. Born in 1968, Hussein Al-Mutairi worked as a doctor before being elected to the National Assembly in 2008. While political parties are technically illegal in Kuwait, Al-Mutairi affiliates with the Islamist and tribal deputies. He is a member of the Al-Mutairi tribe.\n"}
{"id": "7029284", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7029284", "title": "Ilvala", "text": "Ilvala\n\nIlvala () and Vatapi were rakshasas, they ruled from Badami, formerly known as Vatapi, named after rakshasa king Vatapi. According to the Mahābhārata, Vatapi ruled the area along with his brother Ilvala. Legend has it that both rakshasa were vanquished by the sage Agastya. Once Ilvala invited a tapasvi Brahmin, played host to him with reverence and asked him to grant a boon. He desired to have a son equal to Indra. But the sage did not oblidge. Following this, his anger turned to hatred against all Brahmins and medicants. Ilvala and his brother Vatapi took a grudge against sages and hated them implacably.\n\nVatapi knew the art of transformation and had the power to change into any life form. Ilvala knew the ‘Mritasanjivani’ mantra to bring back the dead to life. They used these powers to loot and kill people. Ilvala would invite a brahman to a feast and Vatapi would turn himself into a Goat.\n\nOnce the sage Agastya was invited. Agastya came to Ilvala and the sage was received with reverence and great honour. Sage Agastya with his divne power knew the intention of the hosts and wanted to put an end to this. Agastya ate the food served to him. As soon as the sage finished eating, Ilvala called,\"Vatapi atragacha\"(Vatapi come here). Immediately, Agastya who knows what Ilvala was up to passed his right hand over his stomach and said,\"Vatapi Jeernobhava\"(Vatape get digested). Vatapi could not come out of Agastya's stomach and that was the end of the demon. Ilvala, was scared. He went on shouting \"Vatapi atragacha\" Agastya then he said, \"Oh, you wicked Ilvala, you wanted to kill me, but your brother Vatapi cannot come out and he is already digested\". Ilvala decided to take revenge on Agastya for killing his brother and attacked Agastya. With the power of his \"tapas\" (penance), Agastya reduced Ilvala to ashes.\n"}
{"id": "639232", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=639232", "title": "Jedediah Strutt", "text": "Jedediah Strutt\n\nJedediah Strutt (1726 – 7 May 1797) or Jedidiah Strutt – as he spelled it – was a hosier and cotton spinner from Belper, England.\n\nStrutt and his brother-in-law William Woollat developed an attachment to the stocking frame that allowed the production of ribbed stockings. Their machine became known as the Derby Rib machine, and the stockings it produced quickly became popular.\n\nHe was born in South Normanton near Alfreton in Derbyshire into a farming family in 1726.\n\nIn 1740 he became an apprentice wheelwright in Findern. In 1754 he inherited a small stock of animals from an uncle and married Elizabeth Woolatt in 1755 in Derbyshire. He moved to Blackwell where he had inherited a farm from one of his uncles and, in addition developed a business carrying coal from Denby to Belper and Derby.\n\nStrutt's brother-in-law, William Woolatt, employed one Mr. Roper of Locko who had produced an idea for an attachment to the stocking frame to knit ribbed stockings. He had made one or two specimens which he showed to his friends, though he lacked the interest (and the capital) to develop his idea. Woolatt conferred with Strutt, who sold a horse and paid Roper £5 for his invention. Strutt and Woolatt turned the device into a viable machine and took out a patent in 1759.\n\nTheir machine became known as the Derby Rib machine, and the stockings it produced quickly became popular. Cotton was cheaper than silk and more comfortable than wool but demand was far exceeding supply.\n\nStrutt and another spinner, Samuel Need, were introduced to Richard Arkwright who had arrived in Nottingham in about 1768, and set up his spinning frame there using horse-power to run the mill, but this was an unsatisfactory power source. In Derby, John Lombe had built a successful silk spinning mill using water power. Strutt and Need joined Arkwright in the building of a cotton mill at Cromford, using what was henceforth called Arkwright's water frame. This was the first of its kind in the world, marking the beginning of the Industrial Revolution.\n\nStrutt bought land in 1777 for his first mill in Belper, which at that time was a hamlet of framework knitters and nail makers. In 1781 he bought the old forge at Makeney by Milford Bridge from Walter Mather. Belper opened in 1778 and Milford in 1782. For each he built long rows of substantial worker's houses and both are now part of the Derwent Valley Mills World Heritage Site.\n\nIn time there would be eight Strutt mills at Belper which would grow to a population of 10,000 by the mid-nineteenth century and be the second largest town in the county.\nStrutt was the second son of William Strutt of South Normanton and Martha Statham of Handley near Shottle, Derbyshire, England. In 1755, he married Elizabeth Woollatt. They had five children before Elizabeth's death in London in 1774. In 1781, Strutt married again, to Ann Cantrell, the widow of George Daniels of Belper. There were no children from this marriage.\n\nJedediah and Elizabeth's children were:\n\nJedediah died in Derby in 1797 and is buried in the Unitarian Chapel in Field Row, Belper, which he had built in 1788/9. His final home, Friar Gate House, Derby, is marked with a blue plaque. The house was designed by his son, William Strutt.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "16477368", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16477368", "title": "Katy Perry", "text": "Katy Perry\n\nKatheryn Elizabeth Hudson (born October 25, 1984), known professionally as Katy Perry, is an American singer, songwriter, and television personality. After singing in church during her childhood, she pursued a career in gospel music as a teenager. Perry signed with Red Hill Records and released her debut studio album \"Katy Hudson\" under her birth name in 2001, which was commercially unsuccessful. She moved to Los Angeles the following year to venture into secular music after Red Hill ceased operations and she subsequently began working with producers Glen Ballard, Dr. Luke, and Max Martin. After adopting the stage name Katy Perry and being dropped by The Island Def Jam Music Group and Columbia Records, she signed a recording contract with Capitol Records in April 2007.\n\nPerry rose to fame in 2008 with the release of her second album, a pop rock record titled \"One of the Boys\", and its singles \"I Kissed a Girl\" and \"Hot n Cold\". The former track also sparked controversy for its sapphic themes. Her third album, \"Teenage Dream\" (2010), ventured into disco, and was her first album to top the U.S. \"Billboard\" 200. It topped the U.S. \"Billboard\" Hot 100 with the singles \"California Gurls\", \"Teenage Dream\", \"Firework\", \"E.T.\", and \"Last Friday Night (T.G.I.F.)\" while \"The One That Got Away\" reached number 3 on the chart. The album became the first by a female artist to produce five number-one songs in the U.S., and the second overall after Michael Jackson's album \"Bad\". In March 2012, she re-issued the album as \"\", which produced the songs \"Part of Me\" and \"Wide Awake\". Her fourth album, \"Prism\" (2013), was her second to peak atop the U.S. charts. It is influenced by pop and dance, and she became the first artist with multiple videos to reach one billion views on Vevo with the videos for its songs \"Roar\" and \"Dark Horse\". Her fifth album, \"Witness\" (2017), delved into electropop and became her third album to reach number one in the U.S. Its most successful single, \"Chained to the Rhythm\", broke the record for Spotify's most streamed track by a female artist within 24 hours upon its release.\n\nPerry has received many awards, including four Guinness World Records, five American Music Awards, a Brit Award, and a Juno Award, and has been included in the annual \"Forbes\" lists of highest-earning women in music from 2011–2018. Her estimated net worth as of 2016 is $125 million. She is one of the best-selling music artists of all time, having sold more than 40 million albums and over 100 million records globally throughout her career. In film, she released an autobiographical documentary titled \"\" in 2012, and voiced Smurfette in the 2011 film \"The Smurfs\" and its sequel in 2013. Perry also began serving as a judge on \"American Idol\" in 2018.\n\nKatheryn Elizabeth Hudson was born in Santa Barbara, California, to Pentecostal pastors Mary Christine (née Perry) and Maurice Keith Hudson. Her parents are born again Christians, each having turned to religion after a \"wild youth\". Perry has English, German, Irish, and Portuguese ancestry. Through her mother, she is a niece of film director Frank Perry. She has a younger brother named David, who is a singer, and an older sister, Angela. From ages 3 to 11, Perry often moved across the country as her parents set up churches before settling again in Santa Barbara. Growing up, she attended religious schools and camps, including Paradise Valley Christian School in Arizona and Santa Barbara Christian School in California during her elementary years. Her family struggled financially, sometimes using food stamps and eating from the food bank intended to feed the congregation at her parents' church.\n\nGrowing up, Perry and her siblings were not allowed to eat the cereal Lucky Charms as the term \"luck\" reminded their mother of Lucifer, and had to call deviled eggs \"angeled eggs\". Perry primarily listened to gospel music, as secular music was generally discouraged in the family's home. She discovered popular music through CDs she sneaked from her friends. While not strictly identifying as religious, Perry has stated, \"I pray all the time – for self-control, for humility.\" Wanting to be like Angela, Perry began singing by practicing with her sister's cassette tapes. She performed the tracks in front of their parents, who let her take vocal lessons as Angela was at the time. She began training at age 9, and was incorporated into her parents' ministry, singing in church from ages 9 to 17. At 13, Perry was given her first guitar for her birthday, and publicly performed songs she wrote. She tried to \"be a bit like the typical Californian girl\" while growing up, and started rollerskating, skateboarding, and surfing as a teenager. Perry's brother David described her as a tomboy during her adolescence. She took dancing lessons and learned how to swing, Lindy Hop, and jitterbug.\n\nPerry completed her General Educational Development (GED) requirements at age 15, during her freshman year of high school, and left Dos Pueblos High School to pursue a musical career. She briefly studied Italian opera at the Music Academy of the West in Santa Barbara. Her singing caught the attention of rock artists Steve Thomas and Jennifer Knapp from Nashville, Tennessee, who brought her there to improve her writing skills. In Nashville, she started recording demos and learned how to write songs and play guitar. After signing with Red Hill Records, Perry recorded her debut album, a gospel record titled \"Katy Hudson\". She released the album on March 6, 2001, and went on tour that year as part of Phil Joel's Strangely Normal Tour while also embarking on other performances of her own in the United States. \"Katy Hudson\" received positive reviews from critics, though was commercially unsuccessful and sold an estimated 200 copies before the label ceased operations in December. Transitioning from gospel music to secular music, Perry started writing songs with producer Glen Ballard, and moved to Los Angeles at age 17. In 2003, she briefly performed as Katheryn Perry to avoid confusion with actress Kate Hudson. She later adopted the stage name Katy Perry, using her mother's maiden name.\n\nIn 2004, Perry signed to Ballard's label, Java, which was then affiliated with The Island Def Jam Music Group. She began work on a solo record, but the record was shelved after Java was dropped. Ballard then introduced Perry to Tim Devine, an A&R executive at Columbia Records, and she was signed as a solo artist. Over the course of the next two years, Perry wrote and recorded material for her Columbia debut, and worked with songwriters including Desmond Child, Greg Wells, Butch Walker, Scott Cutler, Anne Preven, The Matrix, Kara DioGuardi, Max Martin and Dr. Luke. In addition, after Devine suggested that songwriting team The Matrix become a \"real group\", Perry recorded with them. Perry was dropped from Columbia in 2006 as her record neared completion. After the label dropped her, she worked at an independent A&R company called Taxi Music.\n\nPerry had minor success prior to her breakthrough. One of the songs she had recorded for her album with Ballard, \"Simple\", was featured on the soundtrack to the 2005 film \"The Sisterhood of the Traveling Pants\". She provided backing vocals on Mick Jagger's song \"Old Habits Die Hard\", which was included on the soundtrack to the 2004 film \"Alfie\". In September 2004, \"Blender\" named Perry \"The Next Big Thing\". She recorded background vocals on P.O.D.'s single \"Goodbye for Now\" and was featured at the end of its music video in 2006. That year, Perry also appeared in the music video for \"Learn to Fly\" by Carbon Leaf, and played the love interest of her then-boyfriend, Gym Class Heroes lead singer Travie McCoy, in the band's music video for \"Cupid's Chokehold\".\n\nAfter Columbia dropped Perry, Angelica Cob-Baehler, then a publicity executive at the label, brought Perry's demos to Virgin Records chairman Jason Flom. Flom was convinced that she could be a breakthrough star and she was signed to Capitol Records in April 2007. The label arranged for her to work with Dr. Luke in order to add an \"undeniable smash\" to her existing material. Perry and Dr. Luke co-wrote the songs \"I Kissed a Girl\" and \"Hot n Cold\" for her second album \"One of the Boys\". A campaign was started with the November 2007 release of the video to \"Ur So Gay\", aimed at introducing her to the music market. A digital EP of the same name was also released that month. Madonna helped publicize the song by praising it on the \"JohnJay & Rich\" radio show in April 2008, stating \"Ur So Gay\" was her \"favorite song\" at the time. In March 2008, Perry made a cameo appearance as a club singer in the \"Wildfire\" episode \"Life's Too Short\" and appeared as herself during a photo shoot that June on \"The Young and the Restless\" for the show's magazine \"Restless Style\".\nPerry released her first single with Capitol, \"I Kissed a Girl\", on April 28, 2008, as the lead single from \"One of the Boys\". The first station to pick up the song was WRVW in Nashville, who were inundated with enthusiastic calls the first three days they played it. The track reached number one on the US \"Billboard\" Hot 100. \"I Kissed a Girl\" created controversy among both religious and LGBT groups. The former criticized its homosexual themes while the latter accused her of using bi-curiosity to sell records. In response to speculation that her parents opposed her music and career, Perry told MTV that they had no problems with her success. \"One of the Boys\", released on June 17, 2008, garnered mixed critical reviews and reached number nine on the US \"Billboard\" 200. The album went on to sell 7 million copies worldwide. \"Hot n Cold\" was released the following September and became the album's second successful single, reaching number three on the \"Billboard\" Hot 100 while topping charts in Germany, Canada, the Netherlands and Austria. Later singles \"Thinking of You\" and \"Waking Up in Vegas\" were released in 2009 and reached the top 30 of the Hot 100. The Matrix's self-titled debut album, which Perry had recorded with the band in 2004, was released onto iTunes on January 27, 2009, as a result of her solo success.\n\nAfter finishing the 2008 Warped Tour, Perry hosted the 2008 MTV Europe Music Awards in November 2008, where she won the award for Best New Act. At the 2009 Brit Awards, she also won the award for International Female Solo Artist. Perry embarked on her first headlining world tour, the Hello Katy Tour, from January to November 2009 to support \"One of the Boys\". On August 4, 2009, she performed as opening act for one date of No Doubt's Summer Tour 2009. Perry also hosted the 2009 MTV Europe Music Awards in November 2009, becoming the first person to host two consecutive ceremonies of the European awards. On July 22, 2009, Perry recorded a live album titled \"MTV Unplugged\", which featured acoustic performances of five tracks from \"One of the Boys\" as well as one new song, \"Brick by Brick\", and a cover of Fountains of Wayne's \"Hackensack\". It was released on November 17, 2009. Perry also appeared on two singles with other artists; she was featured on a remix of Colorado-based band 3OH!3's song \"Starstrukk\" in September 2009, and on a duet with Timbaland entitled \"If We Ever Meet Again\", from his album \"Shock Value II\", in January 2010. The \"Guinness World Records\" recognized her in its 2010 edition as the \"Best Start on the U.S. Digital Chart by a Female Artist\", for digital single sales of over two million copies.\n\nAfter her relationship with Travis McCoy ended in December 2008, Perry met her future husband Russell Brand in the summer of 2009 while filming a cameo appearance for his film \"Get Him to the Greek\". Her scene, in which the two kiss, does not appear in the film. She began dating Brand after meeting him again that September at the 2009 MTV Video Music Awards. The couple became engaged on December 31, 2009, while vacationing in Rajasthan, India.\n\nAfter serving as a guest judge on \"American Idol\", Perry released \"California Gurls\" featuring Snoop Dogg on May 7, 2010. The song was the lead single from her third studio album, \"Teenage Dream\", and reached number one on the \"Billboard\" Hot 100 in June. She also served as a guest judge on \"The X Factor\" UK later that month before releasing the album's second single, \"Teenage Dream\", in July. \"Teenage Dream\" reached number one on the \"Billboard\" Hot 100 in September. Released on August 24, 2010, \"Teenage Dream\" debuted at number one on the \"Billboard\" 200, and received mixed reviews from music critics. It has since sold 6 million copies worldwide. \"Teenage Dream\" would go on to win the 2011 Juno Award for International Album of the Year. In October, \"Firework\" was released as the album's third single. It became the album's third consecutive number one on the \"Billboard\" Hot 100 on December 8, 2010.\n\n\"E.T.\" featuring Kanye West was released as the fourth single from \"Teenage Dream\" on February 16, 2011. It topped the \"Billboard\" Hot 100 for five non-consecutive weeks, making \"Teenage Dream\" the ninth album in history to produce four number one singles on the chart. \"Last Friday Night (T.G.I.F.)\" followed as the fifth single in June, and Perry became the first female artist to achieve five number-one \"Billboard\" Hot 100 songs from one album when the single topped that chart on August 17, and the second artist after Michael Jackson with his album \"Bad\". For this record, she received an honorary American Music Award in November 2011 and a 2013 Guinness World Record. On September 7, she set a new record by becoming the first artist to spend 69 consecutive weeks in the top ten of the Hot 100. In October, \"The One That Got Away\" was released as the album's sixth single. The song peaked at number three in the US and number two in Canada. On January 5, 2012, Perry was named the sixth best-selling digital artist in the United States, with sales of 37.6 million units according to Nielsen SoundScan. That month, she became the first artist to have four songs sell over 5 million digital units. On February 13, Capitol released the lead single from \"\", \"Part of Me\", which debuted at number one on the \"Billboard\" Hot 100 and became Perry's seventh single overall to top the chart. \"Teenage Dream: The Complete Confection\" was released on March 23. \"Wide Awake\" was released on May 22 as the re-release's second single, peaking at number two on the \"Billboard\" Hot 100 and number one in Canada and New Zealand.\nPerry embarked on her second tour, the California Dreams Tour, in support of \"Teenage Dream\" from February 2011 to January 2012. The tour grossed $59.5 million globally and won her the award for Best Live Act at the 2011 MTV Europe Music Awards. On September 23, 2011, she performed on the opening day of the 2011 Rock in Rio festival along with Elton John and Rihanna. In September 2010, Perry was scheduled to appear on the 41st-season premiere of \"Sesame Street\". After her scene was uploaded to YouTube, viewers criticized Perry's exposed cleavage. Four days before the scheduled airing, Sesame Workshop announced that the segment would not air on television, but would still be available to watch online. Perry subsequently mocked the controversy on \"Saturday Night Live\", where she was a musical guest and wore an Elmo-themed shirt showing large amounts of cleavage during one skit.\n\nIn December 2010, Perry played Moe Szyslak's girlfriend in the live-action segment from a Christmas episode of \"The Simpsons\" titled \"The Fight Before Christmas\". In February 2011, she made a guest appearance on the \"How I Met Your Mother\" episode \"Oh Honey\", playing a woman known as Honey. The role won her the People's Choice Award for Favorite TV Guest Star in January 2012. She made her film debut in the 3D family motion picture \"The Smurfs\" as Smurfette on July 29, 2011. The film was a financial success worldwide, while critics gave mostly negative reviews. She hosted \"Saturday Night Live\" on December 10, 2011, with Robyn as the episode's musical guest. Perry's work on the episode received generally positive reviews from critics, who praised her performance in the episode's digital short featuring her and Andy Samberg. In March 2012, she guest starred as a prison security guard named Rikki on the \"Raising Hope\" episode \"Single White Female Role Model\". On July 5, 2012, Perry's autobiographical documentary \"\" was released to theaters through Paramount Pictures. The film received positive reviews and grossed $32.7 million worldwide at the box office.\n\nPerry began to venture into business when she endorsed her first fragrance, Purr, in November 2010. Her second fragrance, Meow!, was released in December 2011. Both perfumes were released through Nordstrom department stores. Electronic Arts recruited her to promote their new expansion pack for \"\", before releasing a separate stuff pack featuring Perry-inspired furniture, outfits, and hairstyles, titled \"The Sims 3: Katy Perry's Sweet Treats\", in June 2012. The following month, she became the spokesperson and ambassador for Popchips and made an investment in the company. \"Billboard\" dubbed her as their \"Woman of the Year\" for 2012.\n\nShe married Russell Brand on October 23, 2010 in a traditional Hindu ceremony near the Ranthambhore tiger sanctuary in Rajasthan, India. Brand announced on December 30, 2011 that they were divorcing after 14 months of marriage. Perry later stated that conflicting career schedules and his desire to have children before she was ready led to the end of their marriage and that he never spoke to her again after sending a text message that he was divorcing her, while Brand asserted that he divorced her due to her commercial success and reluctance to engage in activism. She was initially distraught over their divorce, and said that she contemplated suicide. After the marriage ended in 2012, Perry began a relationship with singer John Mayer that August.\n\nIn November 2012, Perry began work on her fourth album, \"Prism\". She told \"Billboard\", \"I know exactly the record I want to make next. I know the artwork, the coloring and the tone\" and \"I even know what type of tour I'm doing next. I'll be very pleased if the vision I have in my head becomes a reality.\" Although she told \"L'Uomo Vogue\" in June 2012 that she planned to have \"darker elements\" in \"Prism\" following the end of her marriage, Perry revealed to MTV during the 2013 MTV Video Music Awards that she changed the album's direction after periods of self-reflection. She commented \"I felt very prismatic\", which inspired the album's name. \"Roar\" was released as the lead single from \"Prism\" on August 10, 2013. It was promoted at the MTV Video Music Awards and reached number one on the \"Billboard\" Hot 100. \"Unconditionally\" was released as the second single from \"Prism\" on October 16, 2013, and peaked at number 14 in the United States.\n\n\"Prism\" was released on October 18, 2013, and has sold 4 million copies as of August 2015. It received favorable reviews from critics and debuted at number one on the \"Billboard\" 200 chart. Four days later, Perry performed the songs from the album at the iHeartRadio Theater in Los Angeles. \"Dark Horse\" with Juicy J was released as the album's third single in December, and became her ninth U.S. number-one single the following month. In 2014, \"Birthday\" and \"This Is How We Do\" respectively followed as the album's fourth and fifth singles, and reached the top 25 on the Hot 100. Prior to ending her relationship with Mayer in February 2014, she recorded and co-wrote a duet with him titled \"Who You Love\" for his album \"Paradise Valley\". The song was released on August 12, 2013. Perry's third headlining tour, the Prismatic World Tour, began in May 2014 and concluded in October 2015. It sold almost 2 million tickets and grossed $204.3 million worldwide and won Perry the award for \"Top Package\" at the 2014 \"Billboard\" Touring Awards. She also performed at the 2015 Rock in Rio festival on September 27, 2015.\n\nOn November 23, 2014, the NFL announced that Perry would perform at the Super Bowl XLIX halftime show on February 1, 2015. Lenny Kravitz and Missy Elliott served as special guests for the show. Her performance was critically acclaimed, and the \"Guinness World Records\" announced two days after the singer's halftime show that it garnered 118.5 million viewers in the United States, becoming the most watched and highest rated show in Super Bowl history. The viewership was higher than the game itself, which was viewed by an audience of 114.4 million.\n\nThe International Federation of the Phonographic Industry (IFPI) ranked her fifth on the list of Top Global Recording Artists of 2013. On June 26, 2014, she was declared the Top Certified Digital Artist Ever by the Recording Industry Association of America (RIAA) for certified sales of 72 million digital singles in the United States. In May 2014, a portrait of Perry by painter Mark Ryden was featured in his exhibition \"The Gay 90s\", and shown at the Kohn Gallery in Los Angeles. Along with several other artists, she also recorded a cover version of the song \"Daisy Bell (Bicycle Built for Two)\" on a limited-edition concept album titled \"The Gay Nineties Old Tyme Music: Daisy Bell\" to accompany the exhibition. That month, a portrait of Perry by artist Will Cotton was included in the United States National Portrait Gallery. On November 23, 2015, Perry starred in H&M's holiday advertising campaign, for which she wrote and recorded a song titled \"Every Day Is a Holiday\".\n\nOn June 17, 2014, Perry announced that she had founded her own record label under Capitol Records, titled Metamorphosis Music. Ferras was the first artist to get signed to her label, and Perry served as an executive producer on his self-titled EP. She also recorded a duet with him on the EP, titled \"Legends Never Die\". The label was later renamed Unsub Records.\n\nOutside of her music career, Perry reprised her role as Smurfette in \"The Smurfs 2\", which was released in theaters on July 31, 2013. Like its predecessor, \"The Smurfs 2\" was a financial success but was panned by critics. In March 2014, she made a guest appearance playing herself in the episode \"Blisteritos Presents Dad Academy Graduation Congraduritos Red Carpet Viewing Party\" of the \"Kroll Show\". Killer Queen was released as her third fragrance in August 2013 through Coty, Inc. In January 2014, she became a guest curator of Madonna's Art for Freedom initiative. In March 2015, she appeared in \"\", a documentary following her ex-husband Russell Brand's transition from comedy work to activism, and released a concert film titled \"Katy Perry: The Prismatic World Tour\" through Epix, which took place during her tour of the same name. Perry also made a cameo appearance in the music video for Madonna's song \"Bitch I'm Madonna\" in June 2015. The following month, she released another fragrance with Coty, entitled Mad Potion. In September 2015, she appeared in the documentaries \"Katy Perry: Making of the Pepsi Super Bowl Halftime Show\", which followed Perry's preparation for her Super Bowl performance, and \"\", which followed the life and career of designer Jeremy Scott. Perry released a mobile app titled \"Katy Perry Pop\" in December 2015 through Glu Mobile where her character helps players become famous musicians. She described it as \"the most fun, colorful world that helps guide your musical dreams\".\n\nPerry has been in an on-off relationship with English actor Orlando Bloom since the beginning of 2016. She started writing songs for her new album that June, and recorded an anthem for NBC Sports's coverage of the 2016 Summer Olympics titled \"Rise\", which was released the following month. Perry chose to release it as a standalone track rather than save it for her album \"because now more than ever, there is a need for our world to unite\". NBC also felt its message spoke \"directly to the spirit of the Olympics and its athletes\" for its inspirational themes. The song reached number one in Australia and number eleven in the United States.\n\nIn August 2016, Perry stated that she aspired to create material \"that connects and relates and inspires\" and told Ryan Seacrest that she was \"not rushing\" her fifth album, adding \"I'm just having a lot of fun, but experimenting and trying different producers, and different collaborators, and different styles\". On February 10, 2017, Perry released the album's lead single \"Chained to the Rhythm\" featuring Skip Marley. It reached number one in Hungary and number four in the United States. The track was also streamed over three million times on Spotify within 24 hours, breaking the music streaming service's record for the highest first-day streaming for a single track by a female artist. The album's second single, \"Bon Appétit\" with Migos, was released that April. Its third single, \"Swish Swish\", featured Nicki Minaj and followed the next month. They respectively peaked at numbers 59 and 46 in the United States, and made the top 15 in Canada.\n\nThe album, titled \"Witness\", was released on June 9, 2017 to mixed reviews, and debuted at number one in the United States. To accompany the album's release, Perry broadcast herself on YouTube for four days with a live-stream titled , concluding with a live concert on June 12. The live-stream generated over 49 million views from 190 different countries. She also embarked on , which began in September 2017 and ended in August 2018. On June 15, 2017, Calvin Harris released a song titled \"Feels\" from his album \"Funk Wav Bounces Vol. 1\", which featured Perry, Big Sean, and Pharrell Williams. The song went to reach number one in the United Kingdom, becoming Perry's fifth chart-topper in the country.\n\nOutside of recording music, Perry appeared as herself in the film \"Zoolander 2\", which was released in February 2016. In February 2017, the singer launched a shoe line titled \"Katy Perry Collections\". The following August, she hosted the 2017 MTV Video Music Awards. Perry was signed for a $25-million salary to serve as a judge on ABC's revival of \"American Idol\", which premiered in March 2018. Perry recorded a cover of the \"Dear Evan Hansen\" song \"Waving Through a Window\" for the deluxe edition of the cast recording, released on November 2, 2018. The show's creators Benj Pasek and Justin Paul had requested Perry to cover the song to promote the musical's national tour and bring awareness to mental health. On November 15, Perry released \"Cozy Little Christmas\" exclusively with Amazon Music.\n\nDuring the early stages of her career, Perry's musical style gravitated towards gospel and she aspired to be as successful as Amy Grant. At the age of 15, she heard Queen's \"Killer Queen,\" which inspired her to pursue a career in music. She cites the band's frontman, Freddie Mercury, as her biggest influence and expressed how the \"combination of his sarcastic approach to writing lyrics and his 'I don't give a fuck' attitude\" inspired her music. She paid homage to the band by naming her third fragrance Killer Queen. Perry described The Beach Boys and their album \"Pet Sounds\" as having a considerable influence on her music: \"\"Pet Sounds\" is one of my favorite records and it influenced pretty much all of my songwriting. All of the melody choices that I make are because of \"Pet Sounds\".\" The singer also holds the Beatles' album \"The Beatles\" in high esteem, and described these two albums as \"the only things I listened to for probably two years straight.\"\n\nPerry cites Alanis Morissette and her 1995 album \"Jagged Little Pill\" as a significant musical inspiration, and opted to work with Morissette's frequent collaborator Ballard as a result. Perry stated, \"\"Jagged Little Pill\" was the most perfect female record ever made. There's a song for anyone on that record; I relate to all those songs. They're still so timeless.\" Additionally, Perry borrows influence from \"Flaming Red\" by Patty Griffin and \"10 Cent Wings\" by Jonatha Brooke. Perry intends to become \"more of a Joni Mitchell\", releasing folk and acoustic music. Perry's autobiographical documentary \"Katy Perry: Part of Me\" was largely influenced by \"\". She admires Madonna's ability to reinvent herself, saying \"I want to evolve like Madonna\", and has credited Madonna for inspiring her to make \"Prism\" \"darker\" than her previous material.\n\nPerry names Björk as an influence, particularly admiring her \"willingness to always be taking chances\". Other musicians who Perry has cited as influences include ABBA, The Cardigans, Cyndi Lauper, Ace of Base, 3OH!3, CeCe Peniston, C+C Music Factory, Black Box, Crystal Waters, Mariah Carey, Heart, Joni Mitchell, Paul Simon, Imogen Heap, Rufus Wainwright, Pink, and Gwen Stefani. \"Firework\" was inspired by a passage in the book \"On the Road\" by Jack Kerouac in which the author compares people who are full of life to fireworks that shoot across the sky and make people watch in awe. Her second concert tour, the California Dreams Tour, was reminiscent of \"Alice's Adventures in Wonderland\" and \"The Wonderful Wizard of Oz\". She also credits the 1996 movie \"The Craft\" for inspiring her song \"Dark Horse\", and Eckhart Tolle's book \"The Power of Now\" for influencing \"Prism\".\n\nWhile Perry's music incorporates pop, rock, and disco, \"Katy Hudson\" contains gospel. Her subsequent releases, \"One of the Boys\" and \"Teenage Dream\", involve themes of sex and love. \"One of the Boys\" is a pop rock record, while \"Teenage Dream\" features disco influences. Perry's fourth album, \"Prism\", is significantly influenced by dance and pop music. Lyrically, the album addresses relationships, self-reflection, and everyday life. The singer's fifth studio effort \"Witness\" is an electropop album that she described as a \"360-degree liberation\" record, with themes including political liberation, sexual liberation, and liberation from negativity. Many of her songs, particularly on \"Teenage Dream\", reflect on love between teenagers; \"W\" described the album's sexual innuendos as \"irresistible hook-laden melodies\". Self-empowerment is a common theme in Perry's music.\n\nPerry describes herself as a \"singer-songwriter masquerading as a pop star\" and maintains that honest songwriting is very important to her. She told \"Marie Claire\": \"I feel like my secret magic trick that separates me from a lot of my peers is the bravery to be vulnerable and truthful and honest. I think you become more relatable when you're vulnerable.\" Kristen Wiig commented that \"as easy, breezy, and infectious as Perry's songs can be, beneath the surface lurks a sea of mixed emotions, jumbled motives, and contradictory impulses complicated enough to fill a Carole King record.\" According to Greg Kot of the \"Chicago Tribune\", \"being taken seriously may be Perry's greatest challenge yet.\" \"The New York Times\" labeled her \"the most potent pop star of the day – her hits are relatable with just a hint of experimentation\". Randall Roberts of the \"Los Angeles Times\" criticized her use of idioms and metaphors in her lyrics and for frequent \"clichés\". Throughout her career, Perry has co-written songs recorded by other artists, including Selena Gomez & the Scene, Jessie James, Kelly Clarkson, Lesley Roy, Britney Spears, Iggy Azalea, Ariana Grande and Nicki Minaj.\n\nPerry has a contralto vocal range. Her singing has received both praise and criticism. Betty Clarke of \"The Guardian\" commented that her \"powerful voice is hard-edged\" while Rob Sheffield from \"Rolling Stone\" described Perry's vocals on \"Teenage Dream\" as \"processed staccato blips\". Darren Harvey of musicOMH compared Perry's vocals on \"One of the Boys\" to Alanis Morissette's, both possessing a \"perky voice shifting octaves mid-syllable\". Alex Miller from \"NME\" felt that \"Perry's problem is often her voice\" on \"One of the Boys\", stating that \"somewhere along the line someone convinced her she was like, well, a ballsy rock chick\". Conversely, Bernadette McNulty from \"The Daily Telegraph\" praised her \"rock chick voice\" in a review of a concert promoting \"Prism\".\n\nPerry is considered a sex symbol; \"GQ\" labelled her a \"full-on male fantasy\", while \"Elle\" described her body \"as though sketched by a teenage boy\". \"Vice\" described her as a \"'serious' popstar/woman/sex symbol\". She was placed at number one on the \"Maxim\" Hot 100 in 2010 as the \"most beautiful woman in the world\", with editor Joe Levy describing her as a \"triple – no quadruple – kind of hot\". \"Men's Health\" readers voted her the \"sexiest woman of 2013\". In November 2010, Perry told \"Harper's Bazaar\" that she was proud of and satisfied with her figure.\n\nPerry's fashion often incorporates humor, bright colors, and food-related themes such as her trademark spinning peppermint swirl dress. \"Vogue\" described her as \"never exactly one to shy away from the outrageous or the extreme in any realm\", while \"Glamour\" named her the \"queen of quirk\". In February 2009, Perry told \"Seventeen\" that her fashion style was \"a bit of a concoction of different things\" and stated she enjoyed humor in her clothing. She has also described herself as having \"multipersonality disorder\" for fashion. Perry lists Gwen Stefani, Shirley Manson, Chloë Sevigny, Daphne Guinness, Natalie Portman, and the fictional character Lolita as her style icons.\n\nOn social media, Perry surpassed Justin Bieber as the most followed person on Twitter in November 2013. She won the 2015 Guinness World Record for most Twitter followers, and became the first person to gain 100 million followers on the site in June 2017. Keith Caulfield of \"Billboard\" stated that the singer is \"the rare celebrity who seems to have enormous popularity but genuine ground-level interaction with her adoring KatyCats.\" With a combined total of over 246 million followers across Facebook, Instagram, and Twitter, she is the fourth most followed musician across social media. In June 2017, \"Time\" listed Perry among its \"25 Most Influential People on the Internet\" of the year, writing that her live-stream for \"Witness\" was \"blazing a trail\" for being \"the closest any major entertainer has come to giving fans the kind of 'real' intimacy that social media purports to provide\".\n\nIn 2011, \"Forbes\" ranked Perry third on their \"Top-Earning Women In Music\" list with earnings of $44 million and fifth on their 2012 list with $45 million. She subsequently ranked seventh on the 2013 \"Forbes\" list for \"Top-Earning Women In Music\" with $39 million earned, and fifth on their 2014 list with $40 million. With earnings of $135 million, \"Forbes\" also ranked Perry number one on their 2015 \"Top-Earning Women In Music\" list as well as the \"World's Highest-Paid Musicians\" and declared her the highest earning female celebrity in 2015, placing her at number 3 on the \"Forbes\" Celebrity 100 list. In 2016, the magazine estimated her net worth was $125 million, and ranked her number six on their list of \"Highest-Paid Women in Music\" with earnings of $41 million. The following year, she was ranked number nine on the list with $33 million. In 2018, she topped its \"Highest-Paid Women in Music\" listing and ranked at number four on the \"Highest-Paid Female Celebrities\" list with earnings of $83 million.\n\nPerry has supported various charitable organizations and causes during her career. She has contributed to organizations aimed at improving the lives and welfare of children in particular. In April 2013, she joined UNICEF to assist children in Madagascar with education and nutrition. On December 3, 2013, she was officially named a UNICEF Goodwill Ambassador, \"with a special focus on engaging young people in the agency's work to improve the lives of the world's most vulnerable children and adolescents.\" She arranged for a portion of the money generated from tickets to her Prismatic World Tour to go to UNICEF. In September 2010, she helped build and design the Boys Hope/Girls Hope foundation shelter for youth in Baltimore, Maryland along with Raven-Symoné, Shaquille O'Neal, and the cast of \"\".\n\nShe has also supported children's education and well-being. All profits from sales of the album \"The Gay Nineties Old Tyme Music: Daisy Bell\", which includes her rendition of \"Daisy Bell (Bicycle Built for Two)\", were donated to the charity Little Kids Rock, which supports musical education in underprivileged elementary schools. In June 2014, she teamed up with Staples Inc. for a project entitled \"Make Roar Happen\" which donated $1 million to DonorsChoose, an organization that supports teachers and funds classroom resources in public schools. In May 2016, she worked with UNICEF to improve child care quality in Vietnam, hoping to \"break the cycle of poverty and drastically improve children's health, education and well-being\". The following month, UNICEF announced that Perry would receive the Audrey Hepburn Humanitarian Award \"for her work as a UNICEF Goodwill Ambassador in support of the world's most vulnerable children\" at their annual Snowflake Ball in November.\n\nPerry has supported organizations aimed at aiding people suffering with diseases including cancer and HIV/AIDS. During the 2008 Warped Tour, she had a cast made of her breasts to raise money for the Keep A Breast Foundation. She hosted and performed at the We Can Survive concert along with Bonnie McKee, Kacey Musgraves, Sara Bareilles, Ellie Goulding, and duo Tegan and Sara at the Hollywood Bowl in Los Angeles, California, on October 23, 2013. The concert's profits were donated to Young Survival Coalition, an organization aiding breast cancer in young women. In June 2009, she designed an item of clothing for H&M's \"Fashion Against AIDS\" campaign, which raises money for HIV/AIDS awareness projects. On February 26, 2017, she served as a co-chair alongside various celebrities such as Beyoncé, Lea Michele, Jim Carrey, Jared Leto, and Kevin Spacey for the 25th Annual Elton John AIDS Foundation Academy Award Party, a fundraiser for HIV/AIDS healthcare.\n\nThe proceeds from Perry's single \"Part of Me\" were donated to the charity MusiCares, which helps musicians in times of need. During her California Dreams Tour, she raised over $175,000 for the Tickets-For-Charity fundraiser. The money was divided between three charities: the Children's Health Fund (CHF), Generosity Water, and The Humane Society of the United States. On her 27th birthday, Perry set up a donations page for the Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals Auckland, and set up a similar page benefiting the David Lynch Foundation for her 28th birthday. On March 29, 2014, she helped raise $2.4 million for the Museum of Contemporary Art in Los Angeles along with other celebrities such as Ryan Seacrest, Pharrell Williams, Tim Allen, Lisa Edelstein, and Riley Keough. In March 2018, Perry announced \"Witness: Coming Home\", a benefit concert that was held in her hometown of Santa Barbara, California on May 19, 2018. The concert benefited those recovering from the aftermath of the 2017 California wildfires and 2018 Southern California mudflows. Perry partnered with the Santa Barbara Foundation, the 93108 Fund and The 805 UndocuFund, organizations which help in assisting members of the community in the Santa Barbara area through grants and various philanthropic efforts.\n\nPerry performed at the One Love Manchester benefit concert for the victims of the 2017 Manchester Arena bombing amongst various other performers including its organizer Ariana Grande, which was broadcast live on June 4, 2017 through radio and various television stations throughout the world.\n\nPerry has publicly advocated for LGBT rights. She supported Stonewall during their \"It gets better... today\" campaign to prevent homophobic bullying, and dedicated the music video to her song \"Firework\" to the It Gets Better Project. Perry told Do Something in November 2008 she was proud to be a LGBT rights activist, saying \"I've always been a very open-minded person, but I definitely believe in equality.\" She confirmed that she voted against Proposition 8, an amendment (ultimately ruled unconstitutional) that legally defined marriage as a union solely between a man and a woman in California. In June 2012, Perry expressed her hopes for LGBT equality, commenting \"hopefully, we will look back at this moment and think like we do now concerning [other] civil rights issues. We'll just shake our heads in disbelief, saying, 'Thank God we've evolved.' That would be my prayer for the future.\" In December 2012, Perry was awarded the Trevor Hero Award by The Trevor Project for her work and activism on behalf of LGBT youth. On March 18, 2017, she received a Nation Equality Award from Human Rights Campaign for \"using her powerful voice and international platform to speak out for LGBTQ equality\", with the organization further stating that \"Katy's message of inclusion and equality continues to inspire us and the world\".\n\nPerry describes herself as a feminist, and appeared in April 2013 in a video clip for the \"Chime For Change\" campaign that aimed to spread female empowerment. She has also said that America's lack of free health care drove her \"absolutely crazy\". Following the shooting at the Pulse nightclub in Orlando in June 2016, Perry and nearly 200 other artists and executives in music signed an open letter organized by \"Billboard\" addressed to United States Congress demanding increased gun control in the United States.\n\nThrough Twitter and by performing at his rallies, Perry supported President Barack Obama in his run for re-election and praised his support for same-sex marriage and LGBT equality. She performed at three rallies for Obama, in Los Angeles, Las Vegas, and Wisconsin, singing a rendition of \"Let's Stay Together\" as well as a number of her songs. During her Las Vegas performance she wore a dress made to replicate a voting ballot, with Obama's box filled in. On Twitter, she encouraged her followers to vote for Obama.\n\nIn August 2013, Perry voiced criticism of Tony Abbott, then-leader of conservative Liberal Party of Australia and candidate for Prime Minister of Australia, due to his opposition to gay marriage and told Abbott, \"I love you as a human being but I can't give you my vote.\" In April 2014, she publicly supported Marianne Williamson in her campaign for California's 33rd congressional district by attending a political press event. She endorsed Kamala Harris in the United States Senate election in California, and organized a fundraiser for Harris at her home in Los Angeles in November 2016. Perry also publicly endorsed former Secretary of State Hillary Clinton for president in 2016. She performed alongside Elton John at a fundraising concert for Clinton in New York City in March 2016. Perry also spoke and performed at the 2016 Democratic National Convention in support of Clinton.\nThroughout her career, Perry has won five American Music Awards, fourteen People's Choice Awards, four Guinness World Records, a Brit Award, and a Juno Award. In September 2012, \"Billboard\" dubbed her the \"Woman of the Year\". From May 2010 to September 2011, the singer spent a record-breaking total of 69 consecutive weeks in the top ten of the \"Billboard\" Hot 100. \"Teenage Dream\" became the first album by a female artist to produce five number-one \"Billboard\" Hot 100 singles, and the second album overall after Michael Jackson's \"Bad\". In the United States, she has accumulated a total of nine number-one singles on the \"Billboard\" Hot 100, her most recent being \"Dark Horse\", and holds the record for having 18 consecutive number-one songs on the Dance Club Songs chart. \"Billboard\" also named her the 15th most successful dance club artist of all time. The magazine additionally ranked her 4th on its \"Greatest of All Time Pop Songs Artists\" list, included \"Teenage Dream\" and \"Prism\" among its \"Greatest of All Time \"Billboard 200\" Albums by Women\" list, and ranked \"Dark Horse\" at number 100 on its \"Greatest of All Time Hot 100 Songs\" as well as one of its \"Greatest of All Time Hot 100 Songs by Women\" along with \"E.T.\", \"Firework\", and \"California Gurls\". In June 2015, her music video for \"Dark Horse\" became the first video by a female artist to reach 1 billion views on Vevo. The following month, her music video for \"Roar\" reached 1 billion views on Vevo, making her the first artist to have multiple videos with 1 billion views.\n\nPerry was declared the Top Global Female Recording Artist of 2013 by the International Federation of the Phonographic Industry (IFPI). According to Recording Industry Association of America (RIAA), she is the fifth top digital singles artist in the United States, with 98 million certified song units in the country including on-demand streams and also has 6 million certified album units, totaling 104 million certified units in the nation. She also became the first artist to have three songs receive Diamond certifications from the RIAA with \"Dark Horse\", \"Firework\", and \"Roar\". All three of them and \"E.T.\", \"California Gurls\", and \"Hot n Cold\" have each sold over 5 million digital copies. Throughout her career, Perry has sold more than 40 million albums and over 100 million records globally, making her one of the best-selling music artists of all time.\n\n\nHeadlining\n\nCo-headlining\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "9626467", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9626467", "title": "Khavazhi Khatsigov", "text": "Khavazhi Khatsigov\n\nKhavazhi Khatsigov (born 17 April 1977 in Grozny) is a boxer from Belarus.\n\nHe was born in Russia, but after his failure to join the Russian national team (Raimkul Malakhbekov was the No.1 Russian bantamweight in that time), he moved to Belarus in 1999.\n\nKhatsigov won a gold medal at the 2002 European Amateur Boxing Championships in Perm, Russia.\n\nHe qualified for the 2004 Summer Olympics by ending up in second place at the 4th AIBA European 2004 Olympic Qualifying Tournament in Baku, Azerbaijan. In Athens, Greece he defeated Juan Manuel López (boxer) but lost in the second round of the Bantamweight (54 kg) division to Thailand's eventual runner-up Worapoj Petchkoom.\n\nHe also qualified for the 2008 Summer Olympics, but was edged out by Veaceslav Gojan in his first bout.\n\n<br>\n"}
{"id": "633110", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=633110", "title": "Kings and dukes of Brittany family tree", "text": "Kings and dukes of Brittany family tree\n\nThis is a family tree of the Dukes of Brittany from the 9th century, to the annexation of Brittany by France in 1532.\n\nSee also: Brittany - List of family trees\n"}
{"id": "23170807", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23170807", "title": "Lisa Johnson Billy", "text": "Lisa Johnson Billy\n\nLisa Johnson Billy (born February 21, 1967) is an American politician who represented Oklahoma House of Representatives District 42, which includes Cleveland, Garvin, Grady and McClain Counties, from 2004 to 2016. She served as Deputy Whip and Vice Chair of the Republican Caucus. Billy was \"termed out\" after completing her twelfth term in 2016.\n\nBilly was born on February 21, 1967, in Purcell, Oklahoma. She is the daughter of Frank and the late Beverly Jones Johnson. She has one brother, Frank Jr. Before beginning a career in the Oklahoma House of Representatives, she served two terms on the Chickasaw Tribal Legislature from 1996-2001. Billy served on the National Board for Girl Scouts of the USA, as well as on the Sooner Council Girl Scouts Board. Billy is married to Phillip Billy, they have three children.\n\nBilly earned a Bachelor of Arts and Business degree from Northeastern State University and a Master of Education degree from the University of Oklahoma. While a student at NSU, she was inducted into the NSU Hall of Fame, served on the Student Senate, and served as the President of the Native American Student Association. She also founded Peacemakers Inc., a small business designed to bring out leadership skills in youth.\n\nPrior to her election to the Oklahoma Legislature, Billy served six years as a legislator for the Chickasaw Nation. She is also a former educator in the Department of Continuing Education at the University of Oklahoma. She was the first Native American, the first woman, and the first Republican to represent her district.\n\nOn November 21, 2017, President Donald Trump nominated Billy to be a Member of the Board of Trustees of the Morris K. Udall and Stewart L. Udall Foundation for a term expiring August 25, 2024. On December 21, 2017, the United States Senate confirmed her nomination by voice vote. She officially took office on December 27, 2017.\n\n"}
{"id": "5074793", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5074793", "title": "List of British Virgin Islanders", "text": "List of British Virgin Islanders\n\nThis is a list of notable people from the British Virgin Islands\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3156161", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3156161", "title": "List of HIV-positive people", "text": "List of HIV-positive people\n\nThis is a categorized, alphabetical list of people who are known to have been infected with the human immunodeficiency virus (HIV), the pathogen that causes AIDS, including those who have died. AIDS is a pandemic. In 2007, an estimated 33.2 million people lived with the disease worldwide, and it killed an estimated 2.1 million people, including 330,000 children. Over three-quarters of these deaths occurred in sub-Saharan Africa.\n\nHIV is spread primarily by unprotected sex (including anal and oral sex), contaminated blood transfusions, hypodermic needles, and from mother to child during pregnancy, delivery, or breastfeeding. Because of lack of public acceptance, people living with HIV are frequently subjected to stigma and discrimination. Publicity campaigns around the world have aimed to counter HIV-related prejudices and misconceptions and to replace them with an accurate understanding that helps to prevent new infections. These efforts have been aided by various celebrities – including American basketball star Magic Johnson and South African judge Edwin Cameron – who have publicly announced that they are HIV-positive.\n\n"}
{"id": "30480279", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30480279", "title": "List of oldest and youngest TVB Anniversary Award winners and nominees", "text": "List of oldest and youngest TVB Anniversary Award winners and nominees\n\nThe following is a list of the oldest and youngest TVB Anniversary Award winners and nominees. The nominees considered are only those who entered the top final list.\n"}
{"id": "34630016", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34630016", "title": "Lists of women", "text": "Lists of women\n\nThis is an index of lists about women.\n\nBelow are lists related to women in fine art, dance and design.\n\n\n\n\n\nBelow are lists related to notable women in sororities and similar student organizations.\n\nBelow are lists related to notable women based on ethnic or national origin.\n\nBelow are lists related to notable women in film and television.\n\n\n\nWhile every woman on Wikipedia is history making, this section is for subjects that might not fit into other areas of this list.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nBelow are lists related to notable women in the music industry.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nAstronomical objects named on a female theme:\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "77352", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=77352", "title": "Louis Philippe I", "text": "Louis Philippe I\n\nLouis Philippe I (6 October 1773 – 26 August 1850) was King of the French from 1830 to 1848. Like his father, Louis Philippe II, Duke of Orléans, he initially supported the French Revolution. However following the deposition and execution of his cousin, King Louis XVI, Louis Philippe fled the country. His father, despite having denounced his son's actions and voted for the death of the King, was imprisoned and executed that same year. Louis Philippe spent the next 21 years in exile before returning during the Bourbon Restoration. He was proclaimed king in 1830 after his cousin Charles X was forced to abdicate by the July Revolution. The reign of Louis Philippe, known as the July Monarchy, was dominated by wealthy industrialists and bankers. He followed conservative policies, especially under the influence of the French statesman François Guizot during the period 1840–48. He also promoted friendship with Britain and sponsored colonial expansion, notably the French conquest of Algeria. His popularity faded as economic conditions in France deteriorated in 1847, and he was forced to abdicate after the outbreak of the French Revolution of 1848. He lived out his life in exile in the United Kingdom. His supporters were known as Orléanists, as opposed to Legitimists who supported the main line of the House of Bourbon.\n\nLouis Philippe was born in the Palais Royal, the residence of the Orléans family in Paris, to Louis Philippe, Duke of Chartres (who would become Louis Philippe II, Duke of Orléans, upon the death of his father Louis Philippe I), and Louise Marie Adélaïde de Bourbon. As a member of the reigning House of Bourbon, he was a Prince of the Blood, which entitled him the use of the style \"Serene Highness\". His mother was an extremely wealthy heiress who was descended from Louis XIV of France through a legitimized line.\n\nLouis Philippe was the eldest of three sons and a daughter, a family that was to have erratic fortunes from the beginning of the French Revolution to the Bourbon Restoration.\n\nThe elder branch of the House of Bourbon, to which the kings of France belonged, deeply distrusted the intentions of the cadet branch, which would succeed to the throne of France should the senior branch die out. Louis Philippe's father was exiled from the royal court, and the Orléans confined themselves to studies of the literature and sciences emerging from the Enlightenment.\n\nLouis Philippe was tutored by the Countess of Genlis, beginning in 1782. She instilled in him a fondness for liberal thought; it is probably during this period that Louis Philippe picked up his slightly Voltairean brand of Catholicism. When Louis Philippe's grandfather died in 1785, his father succeeded him as Duke of Orléans and Louis Philippe succeeded his father as Duke of Chartres.\n\nIn 1788, with the Revolution looming, the young Louis Philippe showed his liberal sympathies when he helped break down the door of a prison cell in Mont Saint-Michel, during a visit there with the Countess of Genlis. From October 1788 to October 1789, the \"Palais Royal\" was a meeting-place for the revolutionaries.\n\nLouis Philippe grew up in a period that changed Europe as a whole and, following his father's strong support for the Revolution, he involved himself completely in those changes. In his diary, he reports that he himself took the initiative to join the Jacobin Club, a move that his father supported.\n\nIn June 1791, Louis Philippe got his first opportunity to become involved in the affairs of France. In 1785, he had been given the hereditary appointment of Colonel of the 14th Regiment of Dragoons.\n\nWith war on the horizon in 1791, all proprietary colonels were ordered to join their regiments. Louis Philippe showed himself to be a model officer, and he demonstrated his personal bravery in two famous instances. First, three days after Louis XVI's flight to Varennes, a quarrel between two local priests and one of the new \"constitutional\" vicars became heated, and a crowd surrounded the inn where the priests were staying, demanding blood. The young colonel broke through the crowd and extricated the two priests, who then fled. At a river crossing on the same day, another crowd threatened to harm the priests. Louis Philippe put himself between a peasant armed with a carbine and the priests, saving their lives. The next day, Louis Philippe dove into a river to save a drowning local engineer. For this action, he received a civic crown from the local municipality. His regiment was moved north to Flanders at the end of 1791 after the August 27, 1791 Declaration of Pillnitz.\n\nLouis Philippe served under his father's crony, Armand Louis de Gontaut the Duke of Biron, along with several officers who later gained distinction in Napoleon's empire and afterwards. These included Colonel Berthier and Lieutenant Colonel Alexandre de Beauharnais (husband of the future Empress Joséphine).\n\nAfter war was declared by the Kingdom of France on the Habsburg Monarchy on April 20, 1792, Louis Philippe saw his first exchanges of fire of the French Revolutionary Wars within the invaded by France Austrian Netherlands at Boussu, Walloon, on about April 28, 1792, and then at Quaregnon, Walloon, on about April 29, 1792, and then at Quiévrain, Walloon, near Jemappes, Walloon, on about April 30, 1792, where he was instrumental in rallying a unit of retreating soldiers after the victorious Battle of Quiévrain (1792) only two days earlier on April 28th of 1792. Biron wrote to War Minister de Grave, praising the young colonel, who was then promoted to brigadier, commanding a brigade of cavalry in Lückner's Army of the North.\n\nIn the Army of the North, Louis Philippe served with four future Marshals of France: Macdonald, Mortier (who would later be killed in an assassination attempt on Louis Philippe), Davout and Oudinot. Dumouriez was appointed to command the Army of the North in August 1792. Louis Philippe commanded a division under him in the Valmy campaign.\n\nAt the September 20, 1792 Battle of Valmy, Louis Philippe was ordered to place a battery of artillery on the crest of the hill of Valmy. The battle was apparently inconclusive, but the Austrian-Prussian army, short of supplies, was forced back across the Rhine. Once again, Louis Philippe was praised in a letter by Dumouriez after the battle. Louis Philippe was then recalled to Paris to give an account of the Battle at Valmy to the French government. There he had a rather trying interview with Danton, the Minister of Justice, which he later fondly re-told to his children.\n\nWhile in Paris, he was promoted to the rank of lieutenant-general. In October he returned to the Army of the North, where Dumouriez had begun a march into 'Belgium', then the 1714-1794 Austrian Netherlands. Louis Philippe again commanded a division. On November 6, 1792, Dumouriez chose to attack an Austrian force in a strong position on the heights of Cuesmes and Jemappes to the west of Mons. Louis Philippe's division sustained heavy casualties as it attacked through a wood, retreating in disorder. Louis Philippe rallied a group of units, dubbing them \"the battalion of Mons\" and pushed forward along with other French units, finally overwhelming the outnumbered Austrians.\n\nEvents in Paris undermined the budding military career of Louis Philippe. The incompetence of Jean-Nicolas Pache, the new Girondist appointee of October 3, 1792, left the Army of the North almost without supplies. Soon thousands of troops were deserting the army. Louis Philippe was alienated by the more radical policies of the Republic. After the National Convention decided to put the deposed King to death, Louis Philippe's father – by then known as \"Philippe Égalité\" – voted in favour of that act, Louis Philippe began to consider leaving France.\n\nLouis Philippe was willing to stay in France to fulfill his duties in the army, but he was implicated in the plot Dumouriez had planned to ally with the Austrians, march his army on Paris, and restore the Constitution of 1791. Dumouriez had met with Louis Philippe on 22 March 1793 and urged his subordinate to join in the attempt.\n\nWith the French government falling into the Reign of Terror about the time of the creation of the Revolutionary Tribunal earlier in March 1793, he decided to leave France to save his life. On 4 April, Dumouriez and Louis Philippe left for the Austrian camp. They were intercepted by Lieutenant-Colonel Louis-Nicolas Davout, who had served at Jemappes with Louis Philippe. As Dumouriez ordered the Colonel back to the camp, some of his soldiers cried out against the General, now declared a traitor by the National Convention. Shots rang out as they fled towards the Austrian camp. The next day, Dumouriez again tried to rally soldiers against the Convention; however, he found that the artillery had declared for the Republic, leaving him and Louis Philippe with no choice but to go into exile.\n\nAt the age of nineteen, and already a Lieutenant General, Louis Philippe left France; it was some twenty-one years before he again set foot on French soil.\n\nThe reaction in Paris to Louis Philippe's involvement in Dumouriez's treason inevitably resulted in misfortunes for the Orléans family. Philippe Égalité spoke in the National Convention, condemning his son for his actions, asserting that he would not spare his son, much akin to the Roman consul Brutus and his sons. However, letters from Louis Philippe to his father were discovered in transit and were read out to the Convention. Philippe Égalité was then put under continuous surveillance. Shortly thereafter, the Girondists moved to arrest him and the two younger brothers of Louis Philippe, Louis-Charles and Antoine Philippe; the latter had been serving in the Army of Italy. The three were interned in Fort Saint-Jean in Marseille.\n\nMeanwhile, Louis Philippe was forced to live in the shadows, avoiding both pro-Republican revolutionaries and Legitimist French \"émigré\" centres in various parts of Europe and also in the Austrian army. He first moved to Switzerland under an assumed name, and met up with the Countess of Genlis and his sister Adélaïde at Schaffhausen. From there they went to Zürich, where the Swiss authorities decreed that to protect Swiss neutrality, Louis Philippe would have to leave the city. They went to Zug, where Louis Philippe was discovered by a group of \"émigrés\".\n\nIt became quite apparent that for the ladies to settle peacefully anywhere, they would have to separate from Louis Philippe. He then left with his faithful valet Baudouin for the heights of the Alps, and then to Basel, where he sold all but one of his horses. Now moving from town to town throughout Switzerland, he and Baudouin found themselves very much exposed to all the distresses of extended travelling. They were refused entry to a monastery by monks who believed them to be young vagabonds. Another time, he woke up after spending a night in a barn to find himself at the far end of a musket, confronted by a man attempting to keep away thieves.\n\nThroughout this period, he never stayed in one place more than 48 hours. Finally, in October 1793, Louis Philippe was appointed a teacher of geography, history, mathematics and modern languages, at a boys' boarding school. The school, owned by a Monsieur Jost, was in Reichenau, a village on the upper Rhine, across from Switzerland. His salary was 1,400 francs and he taught under the name \"Monsieur Chabos\". He had been at the school for a month when he heard the news from Paris: his father had been guillotined on 6 November 1793 after a trial before the Revolutionary Tribunal.\n\nAfter Louis Philippe left Reichenau, he separated the now sixteen-year-old Adélaïde from the Countess of Genlis, who had fallen out with Louis Philippe. Adélaïde went to live with her great-aunt the Princess of Conti at Fribourg, then to Bavaria and Hungary and, finally, to her mother who was exiled in Spain.\n\nLouis Philippe travelled extensively. He visited Scandinavia in 1795 and then moved on to Finland. For about a year, he stayed in Muonio, a remote village in the valley of the Tornio river in Lapland. He lived in the rectory under the name Müller, as a guest of the local Lutheran vicar. While visiting Muonio, he supposedly got a child with Beata Caisa Wahlborn (1766-1830) called Erik Kolstrøm (1796-1879).\n\nLouis Philippe also visited the United States for four years, staying in Philadelphia (where his brothers Antoine and Louis Charles were in exile), New York City (where he most likely stayed at the Somerindyck family estate on Broadway and 75th Street with other exiled princes), and Boston. In Boston, he taught French for a time and lived in lodgings over what is now the Union Oyster House, Boston's oldest restaurant. During his time in the United States, Louis Philippe met with American politicians and people of high society, including George Clinton, John Jay, Alexander Hamilton, and George Washington.\n\nHis visit to Cape Cod in 1797 coincided with the division of the town of Eastham into two towns, one of which took the name of Orleans, possibly in his honour. During their sojourn, the Orléans princes travelled throughout the country, as far south as Nashville and as far north as Maine. The brothers were even held in Philadelphia briefly during an outbreak of yellow fever. Louis Philippe is also thought to have met Isaac Snow of Orleans, Massachusetts, who had escaped to France from a British prison hulk during the American Revolutionary War. In 1839, while reflecting on his visit to the United States, Louis Philippe explained in a letter to Guizot that his three years there had a large influence on his political beliefs and judgments when he became king.\n\nIn Boston, Louis Philippe learned of the coup of 18 Fructidor (4 September 1797) and of the exile of his mother to Spain. He and his brothers then decided to return to Europe. They went to New Orleans, planning to sail to Havana and thence to Spain. This, however, was a troubled journey, as Spain and Great Britain were then at war. While in colonial Louisiana in 1798, they were entertained by Julien Poydras in the town of Pointe Coupée, as well as by the Marigny de Mandeville family in New Orleans.\n\nThey sailed for Havana in an American corvette, but the ship was stopped in the Gulf of Mexico by a British warship. The British seized the three brothers, but took them to Havana anyway. Unable to find passage to Europe, the three brothers spent a year in Cuba, until they were unexpectedly expelled by the Spanish authorities. They sailed via the Bahamas to Nova Scotia where they were received by the Duke of Kent, son of King George III and (later) father of Queen Victoria. Louis Philippe struck up a lasting friendship with the British royal. Eventually, the brothers sailed back to New York, and in January 1800, they arrived in England, where they stayed for the next fifteen years. During these years, Louis Philippe taught mathematics and geography at the now-defunct Great Ealing School, reckoned, in its nineteenth-century heyday, to be 'the best private school in England'.\n\nIn 1796, Louis Philippe supposedly fathered a child with Beata Caisa Wahlborn (1766-1830) named Erik Kolstrøm (1796-1879).\n\nIn 1808, Louis Philippe proposed to Princess Elizabeth, daughter of King George III of the United Kingdom. His Catholicism and the opposition of her mother Queen Charlotte meant the Princess reluctantly declined the offer.\n\nIn 1809, Louis Philippe married Princess Maria Amalia of Naples and Sicily, daughter of King Ferdinand IV of Naples and Maria Carolina of Austria. They had the following ten children:\n\nAfter the abdication of Napoleon, Louis Philippe, known as \"Louis Philippe, Duke of Orléans\", returned to France during the reign of his cousin Louis XVIII, at the time of the Bourbon Restoration. Louis Philippe had reconciled the Orléans family with Louis XVIII in exile, and was once more to be found in the elaborate royal court. However, his resentment at the treatment of his family, the cadet branch of the House of Bourbon under the \"Ancien Régime\", caused friction between him and Louis XVIII, and he openly sided with the liberal opposition.\n\nLouis Philippe was on far friendlier terms with Louis XVIII's brother and successor, Charles X, who acceded to the throne in 1824, and with whom he socialized. However, his opposition to the policies of Villèle and later of Jules de Polignac caused him to be viewed as a constant threat to the stability of Charles' government. This soon proved to be to his advantage.\n\nIn 1830, the July Revolution overthrew Charles X, who abdicated in favour of his 10-year-old grandson, Henri, Duke of Bordeaux, and, naming Louis Philippe \"Lieutenant général du royaume\", charged him to announce to the popularly elected Chamber of Deputies his desire to have his grandson succeed him. Louis Philippe did not do this, in order to increase his own chances of succession. As a consequence, because the chamber was aware of Louis Philippe's liberal policies and of his popularity with the masses, they proclaimed Louis Philippe, who for eleven days had been acting as the regent for his young cousin, as the new French king, displacing the senior branch of the House of Bourbon.\n\nCharles X and his family, including his grandson, went into exile in Britain. The young ex-king, the Duke of Bordeaux, who, in exile, took the title of \"comte de Chambord\", later became the pretender to the throne of France and was supported by the Legitimists.\n\nLouis-Philippe was sworn in as King Louis-Philippe I on 9 August 1830. Upon his accession to the throne, Louis Philippe assumed the title of \"King of the French\" – a title already adopted by Louis XVI in the short-lived Constitution of 1791. Linking the monarchy to a people instead of a territory (as the previous designation \"King of France and of Navarre\") was aimed at undercutting the legitimist claims of Charles X and his family.\n\nBy an ordinance he signed on 13 August 1830, the new king defined the manner in which his children, as well as his \"beloved\" sister, would continue to bear the surname \"d'Orléans\" and the arms of Orléans, declared that his eldest son, as \"Prince Royal\" (not \"Dauphin\"), would bear the title \"Duke of Orléans\", that the younger sons would continue to have their previous titles, and that his sister and daughters would only be styled \"Princesses of Orléans\", not \"of France\".\n\nIn 1832, his daughter, Princess Louise-Marie, married the first ruler of Belgium, Leopold I, King of the Belgians. Their children included Leopold II of Belgium and Empress Carlota of Mexico.\n\nLouis Phillippe survived seven assassination attempts.\n\nOn 28 July 1835, Louis Philippe survived an assassination attempt by Giuseppe Mario Fieschi and two other conspirators in Paris. During the king's annual review of the Paris National Guard commemorating the revolution, Louis-Philippe was passing along the Boulevard du Temple, which connected Place de la République to the Bastille, accompanied by three of his sons, Orleans, the Duke of Nemours and the Prince de Joinville, and numerous staff.\n\nFieschi, a Corsican ex-soldier, attacked the procession with a weapon he built himself, a volley gun that later became known as the \"Machine infernale\". This consisted of 25 gun barrels fastened to a wooden frame that could be fired simultaneously. The device was fired from the third level of n° 50 Boulevard du Temple (a commemorative plaque has since been engraved there), which had been rented by Fieschi.\nA ball only grazed the King's forehead. Eighteen people were killed, including Lieutenant Colonel of the 8th Legion together with eight other officers, Marshal Mortier, duc de Trévise, and Colonel Raffet, General Girard, Captain Villate, General La Chasse de Vérigny, a woman, a 14-year-old girl and two men. A further 22 people were injured. The King and the princes escaped essentially unharmed.\nHorace Vernet, the King's painter, was ordered to make a drawing of the event.\n\nSeveral of the gun barrels of Fieschi's weapon burst when it was fired; he was badly injured and was quickly captured. He was executed by guillotine together with his two co-conspirators the following year.\n\nLouis Philippe ruled in an unpretentious fashion, avoiding the pomp and lavish spending of his predecessors. Despite this outward appearance of simplicity, his support came from the wealthy \"bourgeoisie\". At first, he was much loved and called the \"Citizen King\" and the \"bourgeois monarch\", but his popularity suffered as his government was perceived as increasingly conservative and monarchical, despite his decision to have Napoleon's remains returned to France. Under his management, the conditions of the working classes deteriorated, and the income gap widened considerably.\n\nAn economic crisis in 1847 led to the 1848 Revolutions, and Louis Philippe's abdication.\n\nThe dissonance between his positive early reputation and his late unpopularity was epitomized by Victor Hugo in \"Les Misérables\" as an oxymoron describing his reign as \"Prince Equality\", in which Hugo states:\nOn 24 February 1848, during the February 1848 Revolution, King Louis Philippe abdicated in favour of his nine-year-old grandson, Philippe, comte de Paris. Fearful of what had happened to Louis XVI, Louis Philippe quickly left Paris under disguise. Riding in an ordinary cab under the name of \"Mr. Smith\", he fled to England. There he spent his final years incognito as the 'Comte de Neuilly'.\n\nThe National Assembly of France initially planned to accept young Philippe as king, but the strong current of public opinion rejected that. On 26 February, the Second Republic was proclaimed. Louis Napoléon Bonaparte was elected President on 10 December 1848; on 2 December 1851, he declared himself president for life and then Emperor Napoleon III in 1852.\n\nLouis Philippe and his family remained in exile in Great Britain in Claremont, Surrey, where he died on 26 August 1850. He was first buried at St. Charles Borromeo Chapel in Weybridge, Surrey. In 1876, his remains and those of his wife were taken to France and buried at the \"Chapelle royale de Dreux\", the Orléans family necropolis his mother had built in 1816, and which he had enlarged and embellished after her death.\n\nThe clashes of 1830 and 1848 between the Legitimists and the Orléanists over who was the rightful monarch were resumed in the 1870s. After the fall of the Second Empire, a monarchist-dominated National Assembly offered a throne to the Legitimist pretender, Henri de France, comte de Chambord, as \"Henri V\". As he was childless, his heir was (except to the most extreme Legitimists) Louis Philippe's grandson, Philippe d'Orléans, comte de Paris. Thus the comte de Chambord's death would have united the House of Bourbon and House of Orléans.\n\nHowever, the comte de Chambord refused to take the throne unless the Tricolor flag of the Revolution was replaced with the fleur-de-lis flag of the \"Ancien Régime\". This the National Assembly was unwilling to do. The Third Republic was established, though many intended for it to be temporary, and replaced by a constitutional monarchy after the death of the comte de Chambord. However, the comte de Chambord lived longer than expected. By the time of his death in 1883, support for the monarchy had declined, and public opinion sided with a continuation of the Third Republic, as the form of government that, according to Adolphe Thiers, \"divides us least\". Some suggested a monarchical restoration under a later comte de Paris after the fall of the Vichy regime but this did not occur.\n\nMany remaining French monarchists regard the descendants of Louis Philippe's grandson, who hold the title \"Count of Paris\", as the rightful pretenders to the French throne; others, the Legitimists, consider Don Luis-Alfonso de Borbón, Duke of Anjou (to his supporters, \"Louis XX\") to be the rightful heir. Head of the Royal House of Bourbon, Louis is descended in the male line from Philippe, Duke of Anjou, the second grandson of the Sun-King, Louis XIV. Philippe (King Philip V of Spain), however, had renounced his rights to the throne of France to prevent the much-feared union of France and Spain.\n\nThe two sides challenged each other in the French Republic's law courts in 1897 and again nearly a century later. In the latter case, \"Henri, comte de Paris, duc de France\", challenged the right of the Spanish-born pretender to use the title \"Duke of Anjou\". The French courts threw out his claim, arguing that the legal system had no jurisdiction over the matter.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "35942976", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35942976", "title": "Marika Mitsotakis", "text": "Marika Mitsotakis\n\nMarika Mitsotakis (née Giannoukou; November 29, 1930 – May 6, 2012) was the wife of the former Prime Minister of Greece Konstantinos Mitsotakis. She was regarded as a prominent political voice with the New Democracy political party, her husband's government, and Greek politics. She was nicknamed \"Mrs. Marika\" among Greeks.\n\nMitsotakis was born to a prominent Athenian family on November 29, 1930. She contracted poliomyelitis at a swimming pool when she was thirteen years old. She survived the illness, but lived with a walking disability for the rest of her life. In addition to her political activities, Mitsotakis became an activist for people with disabilities in Greece.\n\nShe married Konstantinos Mitsotakis, member of a political family from Crete, in 1953. The couple had four children: Dora, who served as the Minister of Foreign Affairs of Greece from 2006 to 2009 and Mayor of Athens from 2003 until 2006; Alexandra, a civil-society activist; Aikaterini and Kyriakos, a member of the Hellenic Parliament from the New Democracy party who on 19 January 2016 was elected President of this party. Konstantinos served as the head of the New Democracy political party from 1984 to 1993.\n\nMitsotakis served as the Spouse of the Prime Minister from 1990 to 1993 during her husband's tenure as head of government. She assumed the traditional role of the wife of a Prime Minister, being quoted in \"Time Magazine\" at the time of the 1990 election saying, \"Finally, my Kostas, we’ve made it.\" However, she was known for her political skills and outspokenness. In 1990, soon after taking office, Prime Minister Mitsotakis made his first appearance in the Greek parliament. A member of the Panhellenic Socialist Movement (PASOK) accused Marika of making \"insolent gestures\" towards socialist politicians during the session. Marika responded to the lawmaker's accusation, \"I'll get my stick and beat you with it.\" In 1991, Marika publicly criticized Minister of Industry Stavros Dimas. Dimas quickly resigned during an official trip to the Soviet Union as a result of Marika's criticism.\n\nMitsotakis often defended her husband against political opponents. She also likened his calm political style and persona to the calming effect of Valium, telling a reporter, \"If you chopped (him) into little pieces, you could sell him as Valium tablets.\"\n\nMitsotakis was widely regarded as an excellent cook in Greek political circles, leading to an urban legend that she used her culinary skills to influence politics. Political opponents of Konstantinos Mitsotakis accused her of using food to persuade two members of the Communist Party of Greece to join a 1989 coalition government with the conservatives with the purpose of pursuing corruption charges against Andreas Papandreou. Marika used the urban legend to write, publish and market her 2011 best-selling cookbook, \"Recipes With a Bit of History\" published in English in 2012 with the title \"Recipes of Love\".\n\nMitsotakis was hospitalized on April 17, 2012. She died at the Evgenidion Hospital in Athens on May 6, 2012, at the age of 81. She was survived by her husband and their four children, thirteen grandchildren and five great-grandchildren.\n"}
{"id": "3237941", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3237941", "title": "Matt Savage", "text": "Matt Savage\n\nMatthew \"Matt\" Savage (born May 12, 1992) is an American autistic savant musician. Born in Sudbury, Massachusetts, he is the son of Diane and Lawrence \"Larry\" Savage.\n\nSavage was a precocious infant who walked early and learned to read by the age of 18 months. He was diagnosed with pervasive developmental disorder, a form of autism, at age three. He did not like any noises or music during his early childhood.\n\nAt age six, Savage taught himself to read piano music. He studied classical piano for less than a year before discovering jazz, which became his main focus.\n\nHe and his younger sister, Kitty, were both home schooled. He began studying at the New England Conservatory of Music in Boston, Massachusetts in the fall of 1999. He continued his classical studies as well.\n\nAmong Savage's talents are hyperlexia and perfect pitch. Coupled with his extremely high intelligence, these abilities have allowed him to achieve other distinctions as well, such as winning a statewide geography bee.\n\nDespite his young age and his autism, and even without formal instruction in musical composition, Savage is an accomplished musician and composer. He has released twelve albums as a solo performer, as leader of the Matt Savage Trio and as leader of various sized ensembles. By the age of 14, he had also performed with Chaka Khan and other popular singers. His compositions are very approachable and often humorous.\n\nSavage has received many awards, including being signed in 2003 to Bösendorfer pianos. He is the only child to be so recognized in the company's 188-year history.\n\nSavage has toured the world, performing for heads of state and others, and appearing on numerous television and radio programs such as \"Late Show with David Letterman\", \"Late Night with Conan O'Brien,\" \"The Today Show,\" and \"All Things Considered\". In 2006, at age 14, he was featured on a CNN report about the human brain, in which he was defined as a prodigious savant, as opposed to the other types of savants. Savage has also appeared in several documentaries about savants.\n\nIn 2007, he played with Scottish folk songwriter/singer Al Stewart, on piano. \n\nIn 2009, Savage enrolled at Berklee to continue advancing his musical career. The following year, in November, he prepared to release his ninth CD. \n\nIn December 2012, Savage received his B.M. in Performance (Piano) from Berklee College of Music.\n\nIn 2014, he composed and recorded the score for a full-length documentary film, \"Sound of Redemption: The Frank Morgan Story\".\n\nIn May 2015, he received his M.M. in Jazz Performance (Piano) from the Manhattan School of Music.\n\nCurrently, Matt balances his professional music career with teaching.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "46453088", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46453088", "title": "Mickey Guillory", "text": "Mickey Guillory\n\nMickey James Guillory (born February 1940) is a retired Louisiana State Police officer from Eunice, Louisiana, who is a Democratic member of the Louisiana House of Representatives for District 41 in Acadia, Evangeline, and St. Landry parishes in the southern portion of his state. First elected in 2003, he is term-limited and ineligible to run again in the October 2015 nonpartisan blanket primary.\n\nGuillory attended Louisiana State University in Eunice and in Baton Rouge, both LSU and the Louisiana Police Academy. He has formerly resided in Glen Ellyn, near Chicago, Illinois, Richmond, Virginia, Cheyenne, Wyoming, New Orleans, and Baton Rouge, dates unavailable.\n\nHe is a former Eunice city marshal.\n\nOn October 4, 2003, with 7,938 votes (58.2 percent), Guillory unseated the Republican Representative Gregory L. Fruge, also of Eunice. Fruge trailed with 5,650 votes (41.6 percent). Fruge may have been damaged in his reelection bid when the chancellor of LSU at Eunice attended Guillory’s announcement of candidacy. Guillory faced no opposition in his 2007 and 2011 re-election bids.\nRepresentative Guillory is a member of the Louisiana Rural Caucus, the Acadiana delegations, and the Democratic Caucus. He serves on these committee: (1) Criminal Justice, (2) Labor and Industrial Relations, (3) Ways and Means, (4) Joint Capital Outlay, (5) House and Joint Homeland Security, and (6) Atchafalaya Basin Program Oversight.\n\nHis legislative ratings have ranged from 33 to 94 percent from the conservative Louisiana Association of Business and Industry. In 2013 and 2014, the Louisiana Family Forum scored him 67 and 88 percent, respectively. Since 2008, he has been rated all but one year as 100 percent by Louisiana Right to Life. In 2006 and 2007, he was rated 55 percent by the Humane Society.\n\nIn 2014, Guillory supported the requirement that abortion providers have hospital admitting privileges near their clinics. That same year, he voted to extend the time for implementation of the Common Core State Standards Initiative. He did not vote on the matter of forbidding the practice of transporting dogs in open truck beds on interstate highways.\nIn 2013, Guillory voted to increase judicial pay and co-sponsored lifetime concealed carry gun permits. In 2012, he voted to prohibit the use of cell phones while driving and opposed state tax incentives to recruit a National Basketball Association team to Louisiana. He did not vote on the matter of reducing the number of hours that polling locations remain open. Louisiana has traditionally had 14-hour polling days. In 2011, he did not vote on the requirement for drug testing of welfare recipients.\n"}
{"id": "5111157", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5111157", "title": "National Commander of the Civil Air Patrol", "text": "National Commander of the Civil Air Patrol\n\nSince 1975, the National Commander of the Civil Air Patrol is the senior official within the Civil Air Patrol. From 1941 until August 1975, the National Commander of CAP was an appointed active duty USAAF or USAF officer, typically a General Officer. In September 1975, this became a civilian position held by an active CAP member. Current and former National Commanders are the only members of the Civil Air Patrol who hold the CAP rank of Major General. The original name of this position was Chairman of the CAP Board. Colonel George A. Stone, Ohio Wing Commander, became the first Chairman, but later died in an aircraft accident. Since 2012, the National Commander also serves as the Chief Executive Officer of the CAP Corporation.\n\n\n\n\nhttp://www.capmembers.com/media/static/Castlepdf.pdf\n\nhttps://www.capmembers.com/media/cms/2016_Conference_Program_FINAL_Reduc_86DEEADA31A81.pdf\n"}
{"id": "42645878", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42645878", "title": "National Defense Battalions (Iraq)", "text": "National Defense Battalions (Iraq)\n\nThe National Defense Battalions ( \"Jahafel al-Difa' al-Watani\") were Iraqi Kurdish paramilitary units. Initially emerging from pro-government Kurdish militia raised by the regime of Abd al-Karim Qasim used against Kurdish insurgents in the 1960s, the Battalions were used quite prominent during the Iran-Iraq War, particularly during the Anfal Campaign. Following the war many units rebelled in 1991 and joined the Peshmerga, although the Battalions survived, albeit in a reduced capacity, until the Ba'athist government was toppled in 2003.\n\nThe units originated in the early 1960s during the Iraqi government's counterinsurgency operations against Kurdish guerrillas. In the 1970s the Ba'athist Iraqi government exploited tribal divisions amongst the Kurds, and recruited various tribal leaders, allowing them to form militias from their followers. These units were armed with light weapons and were tasked with policing Kurdish areas, as well as providing intelligence to the Iraqi Army.\n\nDuring the Iran-Iraq war the Battalions came under the operational command of the Directorate of Military Intelligence and the Army leadership in the Northern Command. The Northern Bureau of the Ba'ath party was responsible for operating and setting policies of the Battalions, as well as reporting on its leaders political activities, and maintaining control over the Battalion's Kurdish conscripts.\n\nThe Northern Bureau portrayed the Battalions as part of the Ba'ath party's plan to civilize and modernize the Kurdish population and turn them from tribesmen into Iraqi citizens. A Presidential decree therefore required military-aged men resident in the Autonomous Region to join the Battalions. In spite of official rhetoric the Battalions had been organised along tribal lines from the beginning, with Kurdish tribal leaders being responsible for both raising and maintaining the Battalions. The official title of the Kurdish tribal leaders was that of mutashar (consultant), in an attempt to hide the extent to which the leaders were subject to the power of the central government and government policy, with those deemed ineffective or potentially disloyal being replaced by other leaders within their clans or being forced to disband their units. Others, who chose to rebel, or defect, were summarily executed. One Battalion was disbanded because its leader was claiming he controlled 900 soldiers, when in fact he only had 90. Two other Battalions were disbanded, and their leaders executed, because one had failed to fight against the Iranians alongside the Iraqi Armed Forces, whereas the other had attempted to assassinate the commander of the 5th Army Corps. Meanwhile, the leader of the 24th Battalion was executed after rebelling in Mankish in Dohuk Province.\n\nIn predominantly Kurdish areas Battalion commanders came under the jurisdiction of the local Party branch, with Battalions being attached to the party offices for Ninewah, Ta'mim, Arbil, Sulaymaniyah, and Dohuk. The management of training camps, education sessions, the pursuit and capture of deserters, and the close surveillance of Battalion leaders and soldiers were central to the security operations of the Northern Bureau. By 1987 there were 147 Battalions, composing some 250,000 men, which made up nearly 10% of the total Kurdish population under the control of the Northern Bureau. Although 5 Battalions were disbanded in 1987 by the end of the Anfal campaign in August 1989 the force had grown to 321 Battalions made up of 412,636 soldiers. This increase was largely due to the forcible conscription of Kurds at the end of the Anfal campaign. The Battalions weren't only restricted to the North however, and some units even fought in the South in the defense of Basra during Operation Karbala-5.\n\nIn addition to their counterinsurgency role the Battalions were also seen as a means by which the government could absorb young Kurds, provide them with employment, and prevent or dissuade them from joining the insurgency. The government achieved only limited success however, with the units suffering high desertion rates. It was quite typical for men to continually shift between fighting in the insurgency and fighting in the Battalions. Both choices were problematic, with family members of insurgent being victim to forced deportations and imprisonment, whilst those in the Battalions became pariahs in wider Kurdish society. Desertion however was dangerous, with execution squads being commonplace on the frontlines. \n\nFollowing the 1991 Gulf War, and the ensuing uprisings, the 100,000 strong force was dissolved and reorganized. The Battalions survived until 2003, although in a diminished capacity. By 2002 the units were composed only 1 brigade, and ~1,000 men.\n\nThe units were derisively referred to as jash.\n\nThe Battalions, due to their prominence in the Anfal Campaign, have been the subject of controversy in Iraqi Kurdistan. During the 1990s discussion of the Jash remained very much a taboo subject, however this changed following the PUK-KDP peace agreement, as well as the 2006-2007 Tribunal, with the Kurdish press opening up discussion on the subject. Views on the jash remain divided, although there has been a somewhat growing perception of the jash as being victims of circumstance, and being forced into the Battalions in order to protect themselves.\n"}
{"id": "11162695", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11162695", "title": "Northey Brothers", "text": "Northey Brothers\n\nAccording to a ghost story by William T. Stead, George and Hart Northey were two brothers who lived in St. Eglos, Cornwall during the early 19th century. Stead writes that the account of one brother who experiences a clairvoyant vision of the other's murder was sent to him by an unnamed correspondent, adding that 'names and places are disguised'.\n"}
{"id": "54436765", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54436765", "title": "Paula Strautmane", "text": "Paula Strautmane\n\nPaula Strautmane (born March 23, 1997) is a Latvian basketball player for Quinnipiac Bobcats and the Latvian national team.\n\nShe participated at the EuroBasket Women 2017.\n"}
{"id": "25091193", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25091193", "title": "Peter Voss", "text": "Peter Voss\n\nPeter Voss, sometimes misspelled as Foss, Vost or Vast (December 18, 1897 – present), was an SS-\"Oberscharführer\", known for his role as a commander of the crematoria and gas chambers at Auschwitz-Birkenau, buildings which were used to gas and burn some 900,000 of the 1.1 million people that perished at Auschwitz-Birkenau, German Nazi concentration camp in Poland.\n\nVoss was born in Flensburg, Germany. During the spring and early summer of 1943, the four crematoria at Auschwitz-Birkenau became operational. It was this time that Voss became their commander, thus becoming the first of three people who would be in charge of all four Birkenau crematoria during the history of the camp. Subsequent commanders were SS-\"Oberscharführer\" Eric Muhsfeldt and SS-\"Hauptscharführer\" Otto Moll.\n\nVoss is frequently mentioned in the memoirs of Sonderkommando member Filip Müller. Müller described him as a stocky man of medium height, with a small, slightly hooked nose and a weakness for alcohol, stating that he displayed \"neither the fanaticism nor the zeal\" of Otto Moll. He stated that his SS training had turned him into an \"uncritical and willing tool rather than a fanatically cruel exterminator\", and offers the analogy that Voss has two personalities: one where he could be \"high-spirited, laughing and joking and talking about trivial things\", and another where he would be completely indifferent to \"shooting men, women and children one after the other\" when required of him.\n\nMüller disclosed that another of Voss' weaknesses was valuables such as gold, diamonds, and currency: these could be sewn into discreet places in his uniform under the pretence that if he left it with a tailor from the Sonderkommando while he was on leave, it would be repaired. According to Müller, Voss knew what was going on, but such behaviour was common among SS men: they were willing to turn a blind eye as long as there was no risk to themselves.\n\nVoss' tenure ended on May 9, 1944, when SS-\"Obersturmbannführer\" Rudolf Höss, beginning his second tour of duty as camp commandant, appointed Otto Moll as chief of the crematoria in preparation for the arrival and destruction of the Jews of Hungary. Voss was placed in charge of Crematoria IV and V.\n\nHe died in 1976.\n"}
{"id": "755515", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=755515", "title": "Preston Brooks", "text": "Preston Brooks\n\nPreston Smith Brooks (August 5, 1819 – January 27, 1857) was an American politician and Member of the U.S. House of Representatives from South Carolina, serving from 1853 until his resignation in July 1856 and again from August 1856 until his death.\n\nBrooks, a Democrat, was a strong advocate of slavery and states' rights. He is primarily remembered for his May 22, 1856, attack upon abolitionist and Republican Senator Charles Sumner, whom he beat nearly to death; Brooks beat Sumner with a cane on the floor of the United States Senate in retaliation for an anti-slavery speech in which Sumner verbally attacked Brooks' second cousin, South Carolina Senator Andrew Butler. Brooks' action received \"widespread adoration in South Carolina and other Southern states\"—the city of Brooksville, Florida named itself for him immediately afterwards—and abhorrence in the North. An attempt to oust him from the House of Representatives failed, and he received only token punishment in his criminal trial. He resigned his seat in July 1856 to give his constituents the opportunity to ratify his conduct in a special election, which they did by electing him in August to fill the vacancy created by his resignation. He was re-elected to a full term in November 1856, but died in January 1857, five weeks before the new term began in March.\n\nSumner was seriously injured by Brooks' beating, and was unable to resume his seat in the Senate for three years, though eventually he recovered and resumed his Senate career.\n\nBrooks' act and the polarizing national reaction to it are frequently cited as a major factor in the rising tensions leading up to the American Civil War.\n\nBorn in Roseland, Edgefield County, South Carolina, he was the son of Whitfield and Mary Parsons-Carroll Brooks. Brooks attended South Carolina College (now known as the University of South Carolina), but was expelled just before graduation for threatening local police officers with firearms. After leaving college, he studied law, attained admission to the bar, and practiced in Edgefield. Brooks also owned a plantation located in Cambridge, between Edgefield and Ninety-Six. In 1840, Brooks fought a duel with future Texas Senator Louis T. Wigfall, and was shot in the hip, forcing him to use a walking cane for the rest of his life. He was admitted to the Bar in 1845. Brooks served in the Mexican–American War with the Palmetto Regiment.\n\nCaroline Harper Means (1820–1843). Brooks was widowed upon her death.\nMartha Caroline Means (April 8, 1826 – March 23, 1901).\n\nHe was a member of the South Carolina state House of Representatives in 1844. Brooks was elected to the 33rd United States Congress in 1853 as a Democrat. Like his fellow South Carolina Representatives and Senators, Brooks took an extreme pro-slavery position, asserting that the enslavement of black people by whites was right and proper, that any attack or restriction on slavery was an attack on the rights and the social structure of the South.\n\nDuring Brooks' service as Representative, there was great controversy over slavery in Kansas Territory and whether Kansas would be admitted as a free or slave state. He supported actions by pro-slavery men from Missouri to make Kansas a slave territory. (See \"Bleeding Kansas\".) In March 1856, Brooks wrote: \"The fate of the South is to be decided with the Kansas issue. If Kansas becomes a hireling [i.e. free] State, slave property will decline to half its present value in Missouri ... [and] abolitionism will become the prevailing sentiment. So with Arkansas; so with upper Texas.\"\n\nOn May 20, 1856, Senator Charles Sumner made a speech denouncing \"The Crime Against Kansas\" and the Southern leaders whom he regarded as complicit, including Senator Andrew Butler. Sumner compared Butler with Don Quixote for embracing a prostitute (slavery) as his mistress, saying Butler \"believes himself a chivalrous knight\".\nSenator Stephen Douglas of Illinois, who was also a subject of criticism during the speech, suggested to a colleague while Sumner was orating that \"this damn fool [Sumner] is going to get himself shot by some other damn fool.\"\n\nSumner's language was intentionally inflammatory; Southerners often claimed that abolition would lead to intermarriage and miscegenation, arguing that abolitionists opposed slavery because they wanted to have sex with and marry black women. Abolitionists reversed the argument by accusing southerners of loving slavery so they could have slave mistresses at their disposal. As Hoffer (2010) says, \"It is also important to note the sexual imagery that recurred throughout the oration, which was neither accidental nor without precedent. Abolitionists routinely accused slaveholders of maintaining slavery so that they could engage in forcible sexual relations with their slaves.\"\nBrooks thought of challenging Sumner to a duel. He consulted with Representative Laurence M. Keitt (also a South Carolina Democrat) on dueling etiquette. Keitt said that dueling was for gentlemen of equal social standing. In his view, Sumner was no gentleman; no better than a drunkard, due to his supposedly coarse and insulting language toward Butler. Brooks then decided to \"punish\" Sumner with a public beating.\n\nOn May 22, two days after Sumner's speech, Brooks entered the Senate chamber in company with Keitt. Also with him was Representative Henry A. Edmundson (Democrat-Virginia), a personal friend with his own history of legislative violence. (Edmundson had been arrested by the House Sergeant at Arms after attempting to attack Representative Lewis D. Campbell of Ohio during a tense debate on the House floor in May 1854).\nBrooks confronted Sumner, who was seated at his desk, writing letters. He said, \"Mr. Sumner, I have read your speech twice over carefully. It is a libel on South Carolina, and Mr. Butler, who is a relative of mine.\" As Sumner began to stand up, Brooks hit Sumner over the head several times with his cane, made of thick gutta-percha with a gold head. Sumner was trapped under the heavy desk (which was bolted to the floor), but Brooks continued to strike Sumner until Sumner wrenched the desk from the floor in an attempt to escape. By this time, Sumner was blinded by his own blood. He staggered up the aisle and collapsed unconscious. Senator John J. Crittenden, Representative Ambrose Murray, and others attempted to restrain Brooks before he killed Sumner, but were blocked by Keitt, who brandished a pistol and shouted at the onlookers to leave Brooks and Sumner alone. Brooks continued beating Sumner until the cane broke, then quietly left the chamber with Keitt and Edmundson. Brooks required medical attention before leaving the Capitol, because he had hit himself above his right eye with one of his backswings.\n\nSumner suffered head trauma that would cause him chronic pain and symptoms consistent with what would now be called traumatic brain injury and post-traumatic stress disorder, and spent three years convalescing before returning to his Senate seat. He suffered chronic pain and debilitation for the rest of his life.\n\nThe national reaction to Brooks' attack was sharply divided along regional lines. In Congress, members in both houses armed themselves when they ventured onto the floor.\n\nBrooks was widely cheered across the South, where his attack on Sumner was seen as a legitimate and socially justifiable act, upholding the honor of his family (and the South as a whole) in the face of intolerable insults from a social inferior (and the North as a whole). South Carolinians sent Brooks dozens of new canes, with one bearing the phrase, \"Good job\". The \"Richmond Enquirer\" wrote: \"We consider the act good in conception, better in execution, and best of all in consequences. These vulgar abolitionists in the Senate must be lashed into submission.\" The University of Virginia's Jefferson Literary and Debating Society sent a new gold-headed cane to replace Brooks' broken one. Another cane was inscribed \"Hit him again\". Southern lawmakers made rings out of the original cane's remains, which they wore on neck chains to show their solidarity with Brooks.\n\nCongressman Anson Burlingame publicly humiliated Brooks in retaliation by goading Brooks into challenging him to a duel, accepting, then watching Brooks back out. Brooks challenged Burlingame to duel, stating he would gladly face him \"in any Yankee mudsill of his choosing\". Burlingame, a well-known marksman, eagerly accepted, choosing rifles as the weapons and the Navy Yards in the border town of Niagara Falls, Canada, as the location (in order to circumvent the U.S. ban on dueling). Brooks, reportedly dismayed by both Burlingame's unexpectedly enthusiastic acceptance and his reputation as a crack shot, refused to show up, instead citing unspecified risks to his safety if he was to cross \"hostile country\" (the Northern states) in order to reach Canada.\n\nIn the House, a motion to expel Brooks failed, but Brooks resigned his seat anyway on July 15. Brooks claimed that he \"meant no disrespect to the Senate of the United States\" by attacking Sumner, and also that he had not intended to kill Sumner, or he would have used a different weapon.\n\nBrooks was tried in a District of Columbia court for the attack. He was convicted of assault and was fined $300, though he was not incarcerated.\n\nHe was quickly returned to office in a special election on August 1, and elected to a new term of office in November 1856.\n\nIn contrast, Northerners, even moderates previously opposed to Sumner's extreme abolitionist invective, were universally shocked by Brooks' violence. Anti-slavery men cited it as evidence that the South had lost interest in national debate, and now relied on \"the bludgeon, the revolver, and the bowie-knife\" to display their feelings, and silence their opponents. J. L. Magee's political cartoon famously expressed the general Northern sentiment that the South's vaunted chivalry had degenerated into \"Argument versus Clubs\". \n\nBrooks died unexpectedly from a violent bout of croup in January 1857, a few weeks before the March 4 start of the new congressional term. He was buried in Edgefield, South Carolina. The official telegram announcing his death stated \"He died a horrid death, and suffered intensely. He endeavored to tear his own throat open to get breath.\" Despite terrible weather, thousands went to the Capitol to attend memorial services. After his body was transported back to Edgefield, another large crowd took part in funeral ceremonies before he was buried.\n\nThe city of Brooksville, Florida (previously known as Melendez), and Brooks County, Georgia, are named in Brooks' honor. They were named shortly after his caning of Sumner.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "49721161", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49721161", "title": "Ralph R. Frerichs", "text": "Ralph R. Frerichs\n\nRalph R. Frerichs is Professor Emeritus of Epidemiology at UCLA where he was active as a full-time faculty member in the School of Public Health for 31 years and as the Epidemiology department chair for 13 years, before retiring in late 2008. \nBoth at UCLA and in international workshops he taught epidemiologic methods, the use of rapid community-based surveys, epidemiologic simulation models for focused research, and screening and surveillance methods for HIV/AIDS and other diseases.\n\nIn addition, he consulted on epidemiological and management-related issues with many international agencies including the Albert Schweitzer Foundation, Population Council, UN, WHO, USAID and CDC in 16 countries:Colombia, Bolivia, Honduras, Brazil, Kenya, Bangladesh, Myanmar (formerly Burma), Thailand, Laos, Cambodia, Vietnam, Indonesia, Philippines, Mongolia, Federated States of Micronesia and the country of Georgia.\n\nSince retirement, he authored \"Deadly River: Cholera and Cover-up in Post-Earthquake Haiti\" (Cornell University Press, 2016), is engaged in panoramic photography, and continues to manage the popular John Snow website, which he created to honor the historical father of epidemiology, known for his insightful research on cholera.\n\nRalph Frerichs was born on October 3, 1942 in Berlin, Germany, the son of physicist Rudolf Frerichs known for development of the cadmium-sulfide photoconductive cell, and artist and writer Gisela Frerichs. The family moved to the United States in 1947-48, where his father joined the faculty of Northwestern University in Evanston, Illinois. Frerichs obtained his DVM in 1967 from the University of Illinois College of Veterinary Medicine at Urbana-Champaign. Following two years in Birmingham, Alabama as Captain in the US Army Veterinary Corp, he obtained the MPH and DrPH (epidemiology) in 1970 and 1973, respectively from Tulane University School of Public Health and Tropical Medicine in New Orleans. While working on his doctoral dissertation (development of a computer simulation model for the control of urban rabies) he was both a research associate with the International Center for Medical Research and Training in Cali, Colombia and an instructor at Tulane University. \nAfter graduation, Frerichs became Assistant Professor of Preventive Medicine at the LSU School of Medicine in New Orleans,\nand epidemiologist for the Bogalusa Heart Study, a longitudinal study of cardiovascular disease risk factors in children in the biracial community of Bogalusa, Louisiana. During his LSU years from 1973–77, his publication topics included pediatric levels of blood cholesterol and triglyceride levels, lipoproteins, blood pressure, hemoglobin. and obesity.\n\nIn early 1978, Frerichs joined the epidemiology faculty at UCLA, rising through the ranks from assistant to full professor, while expanding his research interests both domestically and internationally. Nationally, he focused on airport noise and mortality, mental depression, spatial patterns of cardiovascular disease mortality, and the health impact of recycled wastewater. Globally, his research included health status measures and costs of care in Bolivia, microcomputer applications in Bangladesh, Burma and elsewhere, and pediatric health indicators in Burma. While in Burma (later renamed Myanmar), he developed an approach for quickly conducting community-based surveys, which soon became a component of international surveillance systems. Several years later he introduced a more advanced form of the rapid survey method for use in the United States.\n\nBecoming increasing involved with HIV/AIDS, he realized the need for a simple saliva test to assist screening and surveillance activities. His 1994 call in The Lancet for personal HIV screening in developing countries invoked controversy during a time when detection was viewed as worse than the disease, as did his Epidemiology commentary on HIV winners and losers, and his AIDS article on the harm of not permitting personal HIV screening in developing countries. Controversy continued in his retirement years, when he wrote of the United Nations involvement in the origin of the world’s largest cholera epidemic in Haiti, later expanded in his book \"Deadly River\" featuring French epidemiologist Renaud Piarroux.\n\nHonors included the Delta Omega Public Health Honor Society (1970); the American Epidemiological Society (1982, an honorary society of epidemiologists since 1927); UC Berkeley's 1988 invitation as Ralph Sachs Visiting Scholar for his work in computer technology in developing countries; outstanding alumnus in 1992 of Tulane's School of Public Health and Tropical Medicine; and in 1997 the Prestigious Plaque for HIV/AIDS Education from Thailand's Ministry of Public Health and Bangkok's College of Public Health at Chulalongkorn University.\n\nFrerichs has two adult children, Peter and Christine, and is married to Rita Flynn, following the death of wife Marcy after 34 years of marriage. The couple resides in Southern California at the base of the San Gabriel Mountains.\n"}
{"id": "11371799", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11371799", "title": "Red Legs Greaves", "text": "Red Legs Greaves\n\n\"Red Legs\" Greaves was a Scottish buccaneer active in the Caribbean and the West Indies during the 1670s. His nickname came from the term \"Redlegs\" used to refer to the class of poor whites that lived on colonial Barbados.\n\nAlthough considered a successful pirate during his career, most notably his raid of Margarita Island in the mid-1670s, he is best known for his escape from prison during an earthquake. \n\nHis story does not appear in historical records of the era and he may have been fictional.\n\nGreaves’ story does not appear in period accounts of Margarita, pirate trials, or other documents. It first appears in 1924's \"The Pirate’s Who’s Who\" by Philip Gosse, in which Gosse cites no sources. Gosse’s work appeared only two years after Rafael Sabatini’s popular novel Captain Blood, and Gosse’s description of Greaves parallels Sabatini's Captain Blood closely.\n\nGreaves' parents had been tried for treason for their participation during the Wars of the Three Kingdoms and sold into slavery, as were many Royalists and Covenanters in Scotland. He is thought to have been born in 1649 in Barbados.\n\nBorn a short time after his parents' arrival in Barbados, Greaves became the servant of a kindly master. However, his parents and master died a short time after another, and the orphaned boy was sold to another man who was claimed to have been violent and to have often beaten Greaves as a teenager.\n\nDuring this time, concerned for his survival, he attempted to escape his servitude and successfully managed to swim across Carlisle Bay, stowing away on a ship preparing to leave Barbados. Although he assumed the vessel was a merchantship on its way to a far off port, the ship was actually a pirate ship commanded by a Captain Hawkins. Hawkins was known throughout the Caribbean as an unusually cruel pirate, often torturing captives, especially women, and rarely showing mercy to the crews of ships he attacked. Although feared by his crew, he was respected and very successful in capturing rich prizes.\n\nAfter being discovered on board, Greaves was given the option of signing with the crew \"offering the articles on a platter along with a pistol\". Although reluctant to join the crew under force, Greaves showed promise and quickly gained a reputation as a capable and efficient sailor.\n\nHowever, he soon grew to resent and hate Captain Hawkins, both for being forced into his crew as for his distaste for brutality towards captured prisoners. The two eventually fought a duel, often claimed to be over the torture of a prisoner, although it is more likely Hawkins attacked Greaves for failing to obey his orders. During the fight, Greaves killed Hawkins and was elected by the crew to succeed Hawkins as captain.\n\nAccepting their request, Greaves rewrote the Ship's Articles, specifically prohibiting the mistreatment of prisoners and allowing the surrender of merchant captains during battle. Throughout the decade, Greaves found great success as well as gaining a reputation as an honorable captain widely known for his humane treatment of prisoners and never participating in the raiding of poor coastal villages.\nAround 1675, he captured Margarita Island off the coast of Venezuela. After capturing the local Spanish fleet, he turned their guns against the island's coastal defences and successfully stormed the town. After taking a large amount of pearls and gold, he soon left without further looting the town or harming the inhabitants.\n\nAfter the raid, Greaves was able to retire from piracy and settled down to the life of a gentleman farmer in Nevis. However, after being recognized by one of his former victims, he was turned in to authorities to collect the reward offered for his capture.\n\nGreaves was found guilty of piracy and, despite his reputation, no leniency was shown towards him and he was sentenced to be hanged in chains. While imprisoned in the prison dungeon to await his execution, the town was submerged by an earthquake. Greaves was one of the few survivors and was eventually picked up by a whaling ship. Some stories of Greaves describe his escape from prison in Port Royal, Jamaica, which was damaged by an earthquake and tidal wave in 1692. Other accounts claim he had been imprisoned on Nevis, which is alternately describes as suffering its own earthquake and tidal wave in either 1680 or 1690.\n\nIn gratitude, he joined the crew of the whaling ship and later became a pirate hunter, eventually earning a royal pardon for his efforts in the capture of a pirate ship which had been raiding local whaling fleets. After his pardon, he again retired to a plantation and became known as a philanthropist in his later years, donating much of his wealth to various island charities and public works before his death of natural causes.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4601090", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4601090", "title": "Robert M. Price", "text": "Robert M. Price\n\nRobert McNair Price (born July 7, 1954) is an American theologian and writer, known for arguing against the existence of a historical Jesus (the Christ myth theory). He taught philosophy and religion at the Johnnie Colemon Theological Seminary. He is a professor of biblical criticism at the Center for Inquiry Institute, and the author of a number of books on theology and the historicity of Jesus.\n\nA former Baptist minister, he was the editor of the \"Journal of Higher Criticism\" from 1994 until it ceased publication in 2003. He has also written extensively about the Cthulhu Mythos, a \"shared universe\" created by the writer H. P. Lovecraft. He also co-wrote a book with his wife, Carol Selby Price, \"Mystic Rhythms: The Philosophical Vision of Rush\" (1999), on the rock band Rush.\n\nPrice is a fellow of the Jesus Seminar, a group of 150 writers and scholars who study the historicity of Jesus, the organizer of a Web community for those interested in the history of Christianity, and sits on the advisory board of the Secular Student Alliance. He is a religious skeptic, especially of orthodox Christian beliefs, occasionally describing himself as a Christian atheist.\n\nPrice was born in Jackson, Mississippi in 1954 and moved to New Jersey in 1964. He received a Master of Theological Studies in New Testament from Gordon–Conwell Theological Seminary in 1978. At Drew University he was awarded one Ph.D. in Systematic Theology in 1981 and another in New Testament in 1991. He was pastor of the First Baptist Church in Montclair, New Jersey. He has served as Professor of Religion at Mount Olive College, Professor of Theology and Scriptural Studies at Johnnie Colemon Theological Seminary and Professor of Biblical Criticism for the Center for Inquiry Institute in Amherst, New York.\n\nPrice believes that Christianity is a historicized synthesis of mainly Egyptian, Jewish, and Greek mythologies. Price questioned the historicity of Jesus in a series of books, including \"Deconstructing Jesus\" (2000), \"The Incredible Shrinking Son of Man\" (2003), \"Jesus Is Dead\" (2007), and \"The Christ-Myth Theory and Its Problems\" (2012), as well as in contributions to \"The Historical Jesus: Five Views\" (2009), in which he acknowledges that he stands against the majority view of scholars, but cautions against attempting to settle the issue by appeal to the majority. Price challenges biblical literalism and argues for a more sceptical and humanistic approach to Christianity.\n\nPrice argues that if critical methodology is applied with ruthless consistency, one is left in complete agnosticism regarding Jesus's historicity. Price is quoted saying, \"There might have been a historical Jesus, but unless someone discovers his diary or his skeleton, we'll never know.\" He also similarly declared in a 1997 public debate:\n\nIf there was a historical Jesus lying back of the gospel Christ, he can never be recovered. If there ever was a historical Jesus, there isn't one any more.\n\nCiting accounts that have Jesus being crucified under Alexander Jannaeus (83 BCE) or in his 50s by Herod Agrippa I under the rule of Claudius Caesar (41–54 CE), Price argues that these \"varying dates are the residue of various attempts to anchor an originally mythic or legendary Jesus in more or less recent history.\"\n\nPrice does not see in the Q document a reliable source for the historical Jesus, simply because Q shows everywhere a Cynic flavor, representing a school of thought rather than necessarily the teaching of a single person. Price acknowledges that outside the New Testament there are a small number of ancient sources (Tacitus, for example) who would testify that Jesus Christ was a person who really lived. However, Price points out that, even assuming the authenticity of these references, they relate more to the claims of the Christians who lived at that time on Jesus, and do not prove that Jesus was a contemporary of the writers of antiquity.\n\nPrice asserts that there was an almost complete fleshing out of the details of the gospels by a Midrash (haggadah) rewriting of the Septuagint, Homer, Euripides' Bacchae, and Josephus. As a fellow of the Jesus Project he also noted this in an article that he contributed, \"The Quest of the Mythical Jesus\", writing:\n\nHe views Jesus of Nazareth as an invented figure conforming to the Rank-Raglan mythotype. In the documentary \"The God Who Wasn't There\", Price supports a version of the Christ myth theory, suggesting that the early Christians adopted the model for the figure of Jesus from the popular Mediterranean dying-rising saviour myths of the time, such as that of Dionysus. He argues that the comparisons were known at the time, as early church father Justin Martyr had admitted the similarities. Price suggests that Christianity simply adopted themes from the dying-rising god stories of the day and supplemented them with themes (escaping crosses, empty tombs, children being persecuted by tyrants, etc.) from the popular stories of the day in order to come up with the narratives about Christ.\n\n[Per the Kyrios Christos Cult] The ancient Mediterranean world was hip-deep in religions centering on the death and resurrection of a savior god. [...] It is very hard not to see extensive and basic similarities between these religions and the Christian religion. But somehow Christian scholars have managed not to see it, and this, one must suspect, for dogmatic reasons. [...] But it seems to me that the definitive proof that the resurrection of the Mystery Religion saviors preceded Christianity is the fact that ancient Christian apologists did not deny it! [...] A Christ religion modeled after a Mystery cult \"is\" a Mystery cult, [and against Mack's Christ cult] a Christ cult worthy of the name. This is what we expect Burton Mack to be talking about when he talks about Christ cults.\n\nPrice notes that historians of classical antiquity approached mythical figures such as Heracles by rejecting supernatural tales while doggedly assuming that \"a genuine historical figure\" could be identified at the root of the legend. He describes this general approach as Euhemerism, and argues that most historical Jesus research today is also Euhemerist. Price argues that Jesus is like other ancient mythic figures, in that no mundane, secular information seems to have survived. Accordingly, Jesus also should be regarded as a mythic figure. But, Price admits to some uncertainty in this regard. He writes at the conclusion of his 2000 book \"Deconstructing Jesus\": \"There may have been a real figure there, but there is simply no longer any way of being sure.\"\n\nPrice gives three key points for the traditional Christ myth theory, which originated with Bruno Bauer and the Dutch Radical School:\n\nPrice maintains that the Christ myth theory is the most likely explanation for the origin of Christianity, writing:\n\nLet me summarize the major factors that lead me to accept the Christ Myth as the most likely hypothesis to explain the data.\nFirst, almost every story in the Gospels (and Acts) can be plausibly argued to be borrowed from the Greek Old Testament, Homer, or Euripides. Use Occam's razor: Which is more likely: that a man fed 5,000 with a handful of loaves and fish, or that a gospel writer rewrote an already ancient myth about Elisha doing the same darn thing?Second, every detail of the narrated life of Jesus fits the outlines of the Mythic Hero archetype present in all cultures: divine annunciation of the pregnancy, miraculous conception and birth, heralding of the birth by wise men, stellar phenomena marking the event, child prodigy behavior embarrassing the adults, temptation by a devil at the outset of his career, wonders and contests with evil forces, coronation as king, popular acclaim giving way to hostility, death on a hill top, uncertainty as to the place of burial, postmortem appearances, annunciations of a heavenly ascension. Sound familiar? Granted, many of these mythemes get stuck like barnacles to the bow of the biographies of real historical figures, like Caesar Augustus, but in those cases there remains considerable \"leftover,\" secular information tying the figure into contemporary history. All such links in the gospels, \"e.g.\", with Herod the Great, Joseph Caiaphas, and Pontius Pilate, are so problematical on internal grounds that most critical scholars, never meaning to espouse Mythicism, reject these features of the story as legendary.Third, the epistles, regardless of their dates as earlier or later than the gospels, seem to enshrine a different vein of early Christian faith which lacked an earthly Jesus, a Christianity that understood \"Jesus\" as an honorific throne-name bestowed on a spiritual savior who had been ambushed and killed by the Archons who rule the universe before he rose triumphant over them. Gnosticism, too, continued this tradition. But what we know as Christianity eventually rewrote Jesus into an historical incarnation who suffered at the hands of earthly institutions of religion and government.\n\nAs editor of the journal \"Crypt of Cthulhu\" (published by Necronomicon Press) and of a series of Cthulhu Mythos anthologies, Price has been a major figure in H. P. Lovecraft scholarship and fandom for many years. In essays that introduce the anthologies and the individual stories, Price traces the origins of Lovecraft's entities, motifs, and literary style. \"The Cthulhu Cycle\", for example, saw the origins of Cthulhu the octopoid entity in Alfred, Lord Tennyson's \"The Kraken\" (1830) and particular passages from Lord Dunsany, while \"The Dunwich Cycle\" points to the influence of Arthur Machen on Lovecraft's \"The Dunwich Horror.\"\n\nPrice's religious background often informs his Mythos criticism, seeing gnostic themes in Lovecraft's fictional god Azathoth and interpreting \"The Shadow Over Innsmouth\" as a kind of initiation ritual.\n\nMost of the early \"Cthulhu\" books by Chaosium were overseen by Price; his first book was \"The Hastur Cycle\" (1993), an anthology of short stories which traced the development of a single Lovecraftian element, and this was followed by \"Mysteries of the Worm\" (1993), a collection of Robert Bloch's Mythos fiction.\n\nPrice runs \"The Bible Geek\", a broadcast show where Price answers listeners' questions. In 2010 he became one of three new hosts on Point of Inquiry (the Center for Inquiry's podcast), following the retirement of host D. J. Grothe from the show. Having appeared on the show twice before as a guest (see external links below), he hosted until 2012.\n\nIn 2005, he appeared in Brian Flemming's documentary film \"The God Who Wasn't There\", is the subject of the documentary \"The Gospel According to Price\" by writer/director Joseph Nanni, and appears in the films of Jozef K. Richards in the documentary, \"Batman & Jesus\", and comedy series, \"Holy Shit\".\n\nIn 1999, he debated William Lane Craig, arguing against the historicity of Jesus' resurrection. In 2010, he debated James White, arguing against the reliability of the Bible. In 2010, he debated Douglas Jacoby, on Jesus: Man, Myth, or Messiah? In 2016, he debated New Testament scholar Bart Ehrman on the historicity of Jesus.\n\n\n\nNote: many of Price's Cthulhu Mythos anthologies have appeared in French and Spanish editions (some unauthorised).\nEditor of \"Midnight Shambler\" and \"Crypt of Cthulhu\".\n\n"}
{"id": "25494221", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25494221", "title": "Ronald Cramer", "text": "Ronald Cramer\n\nRonald John Fitzgerald Cramer (born 3 February 1968 in Haarlem) is a professor at the Centrum Wiskunde & Informatica (CWI) in Amsterdam and the University of Leiden. He obtained his PhD from the University of Amsterdam in 1997. Prior to returning to the Netherlands he was at the University of Aarhus.\n\nHe is best known for his work with Victor Shoup on chosen ciphertext secure encryption in the standard model, in particular the Cramer–Shoup encryption scheme.\n\nCramer became a member of the Royal Netherlands Academy of Arts and Sciences in 2013. He is member of the advisory board of the German Center for Advanced Security Research Darmstadt CASED.\n\n"}
{"id": "55530382", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55530382", "title": "Siddharth Desai", "text": "Siddharth Desai\n\nSiddharth Desai (born 16 August 2000) is an Indian cricketer. He made his first-class debut for Gujarat in the 2017–18 Ranji Trophy on 14 October 2017, taking his maiden five-wicket haul in the second innings, and being named man of the match.\n\nIn October 2018, he was the leading wicket-taker in the 2018 ACC Under-19 Asia Cup, with eighteen dismissals in five matches. The following month, he was named as one of eight players to watch ahead of the 2018–19 Ranji Trophy.\n\nIn December 2018, he was named in India's team for the 2018 ACC Emerging Teams Asia Cup.\n"}
{"id": "40047515", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40047515", "title": "Stella Young", "text": "Stella Young\n\nStella Jane Young (24 February 1982 – 6 December 2014) was an Australian comedian, journalist and disability rights activist.\n\nYoung was born in 1982 at Stawell, Victoria. She was born with osteogenesis imperfecta, and used a wheelchair for most of her life. At the age of 14 she audited the accessibility of the main street businesses of her hometown.\n\nShe held a Bachelor of Arts in Journalism and Public Relations from Deakin University, Geelong and a Graduate Diploma in Education from the University of Melbourne. After graduating in 2004, she worked for a time as a secondary school teacher.\n\nYoung served as the editor for the Australian Broadcasting Corporation's online magazine, \"Ramp Up\". Before joining the ABC, she had worked as an educator in public programs at Melbourne Museum, and hosted eight seasons of \"No Limits\", a disability culture program on community television station Channel 31.\n\nIn a \"Ramp Up\" editorial published in July 2012 she deconstructed society's habit of turning disabled people into what she called \"inspiration porn\". The concept was further popularized in her April 2014 TEDxSydney talk, entitled \"I'm not your inspiration, thank you very much\".\n\nHaving previously appeared in several comedy showcases and group shows, Stella made her festival debut as a solo performer at the 2014 Melbourne International Comedy Festival. Her show \"Tales from the Crip\", directed by Nelly Thomas, won her the award for best newcomer at the festival.\n\nShe was a member of the boards of the Ministerial Advisory Council for the Department of Victorian Communities, Victorian Disability Advisory Council, the Youth Disability Advocacy Service and Women with Disabilities Victoria.\n\nIn 2017 Young was inducted posthumously onto the Victorian Honour Roll of Women in recognition of her work as a \"journalist, comedian, feminist and fierce disability activist\".\n\n\nYoung died unexpectedly in Melbourne, on 6 December 2014 of a suspected aneurysm.\n\n\n \n"}
{"id": "56909395", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56909395", "title": "Talhig of Shali", "text": "Talhig of Shali\n\nIn August 1845 he was appointed the leader of Greater Chechnya.\n\nSeptember 27, 1851 Baryatinsky defeated Naib Talhig Shalinsky at the village of Churtogay.\n\nDecember 30, 1853 participated in the battle against the detachment of Major-General Baklanov in the village of Gordali.\n\nSeptember 28, 1854, together with Eski Mishchikovsky participated in the battle against the detachment Wrangel on the river Argun.\n\nIn 1859, he moved to the side of the Russian Empire. He wrote the chronicle in Arabic. Buried Talhig in the village of Shali.\n"}
{"id": "2273873", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2273873", "title": "Tuskaloosa", "text": "Tuskaloosa\n\nTuskaloosa (\"Tuskalusa\", \"Tastaluca\", \"Tuskaluza\") (died 1540) was a paramount chief of a Mississippian chiefdom in what is now the U.S. state of Alabama. His people were possibly ancestors to the several southern Native American confederacies (the Choctaw and Creek peoples) who later emerged in the region. The modern city of Tuscaloosa, Alabama is named for him.\n\nTuskaloosa is notable for leading the Battle of Mabila at his fortified village against the Spanish conquistador Hernando de Soto. After being taken hostage by the Spanish as they passed through his territory, Tuskaloosa organized a surprise attack on his captors at Mabila, but was ultimately defeated.\n\nContemporary records describe the paramount chief as being very tall and well built, with some of the chroniclers saying Tuaskaloosa stood a foot and a half taller than the Spaniards. His name, derived from the western Muskogean language elements \"taska\" and \"losa\", means \"Black Warrior\".\n\nTuskaloosa and his chiefdom are recorded in the chronicles of Hernando de Soto's expedition, which arrived in North America in 1539. De Soto had been appointed Governor of Cuba by King Carlos I of Spain, who directed him to conquer Florida, which was taken to comprise what is now the Southern United States, as \"adelantado\". In 1539, De Soto landed near Tampa, Florida with 600-1,000 men and 200 horses and began a circuitous exploration of modern-day Florida, Georgia, South Carolina and Alabama, often engaging in violent conflict with the indigenous peoples. As they traveled, the expedition kidnapped natives to act as bearers and interpreters of the many different language families (Muskogean, Yamasee, Iroquoian Cherokee, and others) of the Southeast. The conquistadors frequently took a local chief hostage to guarantee safe passage through his territory. By October 1540, the Expedition had reached the middle of modern-day Alabama.\n\nTuskaloosa's province consisted of a series of villages, mostly along the Coosa and Alabama Rivers. Each village had its own chief who was a vassal to Tuskaloosa, the paramount chief. After traveling through the Coosa Province, the De Soto expedition came to the village of Talisi on September 18, 1540, near the modern town of Childersburg, Alabama. The chief of Talisi and his vassals had fled the town before them, but de Soto sent messages to the chief, who returned on September 25.\n\nOnce Chief Talisi had shown his obedience by supplying the Spaniards with requested deerskins, food, bearers, and women, de Soto released the paramount chief of Coosa, whom they had held hostage while traveling through his territory. Chief Coosa was angry that he was taken so far from his home village and that de Soto still held his sister, who was probably the mother of his successor as chief according to the region's matrilineal system. De Soto evidently thought Talisi was subject to Coosa, although the village was closer to Tuskaloosa. As such the chief may have had dual allegiances to both chiefdoms and balanced between them.\n\nTuskaloosa sent an envoy led by his son and several head men to meet the Spanish in Talisi. The envoy intended to assess Spanish expedition in order to prepare a trap for them. The Spanish rested at Talisi for several weeks, then departed on October 5. During the next several days, they reached about one village of the Tuskaloosa province per day. These included Casiste, situated on a stream; and Caxa, another village on a stream, possibly Hatchett Creek, the boundary between the Coosa and the Tuskaloosa. The next day they camped on the Coosa River, across from the village of Humati, near the mouth of Shoal Creek. On October 8 they came to a newly built settlement named Uxapita, possibly near modern Wetumpka, Alabama. On October 9, de Soto crossed the Tallapoosa River, and by the end of the day, his party was within a few miles of Tuskalusa's village, Atahachi.\n\nDe Soto sent a messenger to tell the chief he and his army had arrived, and the chief responded that they could go to the court whenever de Soto liked. The next day de Soto sent Luis de Moscoso Alvarado to tell the chief that they were on their way. The paramount village was a large, recently built, fortified community with a platform mound and plaza. Upon entering the village, de Soto was taken to meet the chief under a portico on top of the mound.\n\nMoscoso and his men mounted their horses and galloped around the plaza, playing \"juego de cañas\", a dangerous sport involving jousting with lances. The men occasionally feinted toward Tuskaloosa, hoping to frighten him, a technique of manipulation de Soto had used against the Inca Atahualpa at Cajamarca. The chief sat as though unconcerned. Afterward the Indians served the Spaniards food, and the residents of Atahachi danced in the plaza, reminding the Spaniards of rural dances in their own country. When de Soto demanded porters and women from the chief, the chief said that he was accustomed to being served, and not vice versa. De Soto had Tuskaloosa taken hostage. The expedition began making plans to leave the next day, and Tuskaloosa relented, providing bearers for the Spaniards. He informed de Soto that they would have to go to his town of \"Mabila\" (or \"Mauvila\") to receive the women. De Soto gave the chief a pair of boots and a red cloak to reward him for his cooperation.\n\nThe expedition departed Atachaci on October 12, and the next day arrived in the village of Piachi, situated high on a cliff overlooking the Alabama River. Here the Spaniards began noticing signs of resistance from the native population. De Soto demanded canoes from the people of Piachi, but the chief claimed his people did not have any. The expedition was forced to wait two days as they built rafts to cross to the north side of the river. After crossing, they noticed that two Spaniards were missing, Juan de Villalobos (who liked to explore the countryside) and an unnamed man looking for a runaway Indian slave. De Soto ordered Tuskaloosa to have his people produced or he would be burned at the stake; the chief said only that the men would be returned at Mabila.\n\nOn October 18, de Soto and the expedition arrived at Mabila, a small, heavily fortified village situated on a plain. It had a wooden palisade encircling it, with bastions every so often for archers to shoot from. The Spaniards knew something was amiss: the population of the town was almost exclusively male, young warriors and men of status. There were several women, but no children. The Spaniards also noticed the palisade had been recently strengthened, and that all trees, bushes and even weeds had been cleared from outside the settlement for the length of a crossbow shot. Outside the palisade in the field, they saw an older warrior haranguing younger men, or leading them in mock skirmishes and military exercises. A small community in southeast Kentucky bears his name along with other towns and cities.\n\nAs de Soto approached the town, the chief of Mabila came out to greet him, bringing him three robes of marten skins as a gift. De Soto and several of his men dismounted and entered the town, as the native bearers placed the Spaniards' supplies next to the palisade. The Mabilians danced and sang to the Spaniards, seemingly to allay their fears and to distract them. While the spectacle unfolded, Tuskaloosa told de Soto he was tired of marching with the Spaniards, and wished to stay in Mabila. De Soto refused, and the chief asked to confer with some of his nobles in one of the large wattle and daub houses on the plaza. De Soto sent Juan Ortiz to retrieve him, but the Mabilians refused him entrance to the house. Tuskaloosa told de Soto and his expedition to leave in peace, or he and his allies would force him to leave.\n\nWhen de Soto sent men into the house to retrieve the chief, they discovered it was full of armed warriors prepared to protect their chief. De Soto asked the Chief of Mabila to demand the porters promised by Tuskaloosa, and the Spaniards would leave. The man refused, and a Spaniard grabbed him; in the ensuing scuffle, the chief had his arm cut off by the Spaniard's sword. With this, the Mabilians attacked the Spanish, who immediately ran for the gate and their horses. Natives came from all of the houses and attacked the Spaniards. The Mabilians grabbed the provisions and equipment left outside the palisade and brought the supplies into the town. After making it outside, the Spaniards regrouped and assaulted the village. After numerous assaults and many hours (the battle lasted eight or nine hours), the Spaniards were able to hack holes into the walls of the palisade and reenter the town.\n\nThe Spaniards burned down Mabila, and nearly all the Mabilians and their allies were killed, either in the battle, in the subsequent fires, or by suicide. Chief Tuskaloosa's son was found among the dead, although the chief was not. Biedma asserts that over five thousand were in the town, of which almost none was able to escape. For several weeks afterward, the Spanish made forays to neighboring villages for supplies of maize, deerskins, and other goods, finding many wounded and dead Mabilians in the houses. The natives had made two serious mistakes: they had not realized Spaniards' advantage when mounted on horses, and they had relied too heavily on their palisade. Once the Spanish breached the palisade, the Mabilians were too crowded in the village to mount a successful defense.\n\nOver the next few centuries, the Tuskaloosa, Coosa, Plaquemine Mississippian peoples from the Mississippi and Pearl River valleys, and other native peoples came together to form a confederacy that became the historic tribe known as the Choctaw.\n\n"}
{"id": "10788389", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10788389", "title": "William Arden, 2nd Baron Alvanley", "text": "William Arden, 2nd Baron Alvanley\n\nWilliam Arden, 2nd Baron Alvanley (8 January 1789 – 16 November 1849) was a British Army officer, peer and socialite, who was one of a close circle of young men surrounding the Prince Regent.\n\nAlvanley was the son of Richard Arden, 1st Baron Alvanley and Anne Wilbraham-Bootle. Initially pursuing a career as an officer in the British Army, purchased an ensigncy in the Coldstream Guards. He was promoted to captain in March 1809. He later transferred to the 50th (Queen's Own) Regiment of Foot, and exchanged to the half-pay of the 100th Regiment of Foot on 1 September 1812. Owing to his subsequent debts, he was forced to dispose of his half-pay on 10 June 1826. He later served in the Forest Troop, King's Regiment of Cheshire Yeomanry Cavalry, as a cornet, but resigned on 17 January 1840.\n\nLord Alvanley was a prominent Regency buck and member of the Prince Regent's circle, and was friends with Beau Brummell. He was popular in society and regarded as wittiest man of his day. He, Brummell, Henry Mildmay, and Henry Pierrepoint were considered the prime movers of Watier's club, dubbed \"the Dandy Club\" by Lord Byron. They were also the four hosts of the July 1813 masquerade ball at which the Prince Regent greeted Alvanley and Pierrepoint, but then \"cut\" Brummell and Mildmay by snubbing them, staring them in the face but not speaking to them. Brummell then said to Alvanley, \"Alvanley, who's your fat friend?\". The Prince Regent was not amused; this incident was the final and most public sign that Brummell was no longer favored by \"Prinny\".\n\nAlvanley continued to support Brummell, sending money to his friend during Brummell's exile in France. In 1835, Alvanley fought a duel with Morgan O'Connell. According to a near contemporary report, \"[Alvanley] went through the business with the most perfect \"sang froid\", but on his way to the field he whimsically intimated a singular alarm. Having descended a hollow, 'My Lord', said he to his second, 'you get me down well enough, but', alluding to his full size, 'should I fall, I do not know how the devil you will ever get me up again.'\"\n\nHe had an extremely lavish lifestyle, funded by income generated by the estates that his father had bought. His prominent position in society also allowed him to float a line of credit. However, his debts became untenable and eventually his family estates had to be sold to pay them off. Underbank Hall in Stockport was sold by auction in 1823 and most of the Bredbury estate was sold in lots in 1825. In 1827 he sold the Willington Estate to Waterloo veteran William Tomkinson, land that would become the site of Willington Hall. The Arden Hall mansion was sold in 1833. He eventually resigned his membership of White's. The death of George IV in 1830 saw Alvanley's society position deteriorate, which was furthered hampered by his limited income. He occasionally contributed to debates in the House of Lords. He did not marry and had no children. On his death, the title went to his only brother, the Hon. Colonel Richard Arden.\n\n"}
{"id": "38968926", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38968926", "title": "Yvonne Brill", "text": "Yvonne Brill\n\nYvonne Madelaine Brill (née Claeys; December 30, 1924 – March 27, 2013) was a Canadian-American rocket and jet propulsion engineer. During her career she was involved in a broad range of national space programs in the United States, including NASA and the International Maritime Satellite Organization.\n\nBrill was born in Winnipeg, Manitoba, Canada. Her parents were immigrants from Belgium. She attended the University of Manitoba, but was barred from studying engineering because of her gender, so she studied chemistry and mathematics.\n\nBrill's work in satellite propulsion systems resulted in a number of significant developments. She developed the concept for a new rocket engine, the hydrazine resistojet, and she proposed the use of a single propellant because of the value and simplicity that it would provide. Her invention resulted in not only higher engine performance but also increased reliability of the propulsion system. The reduction in propellant weight requirements enabled either increased payload capability or extended mission life.\n\nBrill invented the hydrazine resistojet propulsion system in 1967 for which she holds U.S. Patent No. 3,807,657. Her invention became a standard in the industry, and has translated into millions of dollars of increased revenue for commercial communications satellite owners.\n\nBrill contributed to the propulsion systems of TIROS, the first weather satellite; Nova, a series of rocket designs that were used in American moon missions; Explorer 32, the first upper-atmosphere satellite; and the Mars Observer, which in 1992 almost entered a Mars orbit before losing communication with Earth.\n\nBrill was awarded the AIAA Wyld Propulsion Award (2002) and the American Association of Engineering Societies John Fritz Medal (2009). In 1980, \"Harper's Bazaar\" and the DeBeers Corporation gave her their Diamond Superwoman award for returning to a successful career after starting a family. In 2001 she was awarded the NASA Distinguished Public Service Medal. In 2011 President Barack Obama presented her with the National Medal of Technology and Innovation.\n\nShe was elected to the National Academy of Engineering in 1987.\nShe was named fellow of The Society of Women Engineers (SWE) in 1985 and received its highest honor, the Achievement Award, the following year.\n\nThe Yvonne C. Brill Lectureship of the American Institute of Aeronautics and Astronautics (AIAA) is named in her honor and presented annually.\n\nA longtime resident of the Skillman section of Montgomery Township, New Jersey, United States, Brill died of complications of breast cancer in Princeton, New Jersey.\n\nAn obituary of Brill published in the March 30, 2013 issue of the \"New York Times\" originally began: \"She made a mean beef stroganoff, followed her husband from job to job and took eight years off from work to raise three children\". The obituary was heavily criticized for leading with and overemphasizing Brill's gender and family life, rather than her scientific and career accomplishments and was cited as an example of an article that failed the Finkbeiner test. The \"Times\" later dropped the reference to her cooking and changed the lead of the article.\n\n"}
{"id": "3798550", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3798550", "title": "Zaib-un-Nissa Hamidullah", "text": "Zaib-un-Nissa Hamidullah\n\nZaib-un-Nissa (Bengali: জেবুন্নেসা হামিদুল্লাহ) (transliterated Zeb-un-Nissa, Zaibunnissa, Zaibun Nisa, Zaibunisa, Zaib-un-Nisa, Zebunnissa, Zeb-un-Nisa) Hamidullah (; 25 December 1918 – 10 September 2000) was a Pakistani writer and journalist. She was a pioneer of Pakistani literature and journalism in English, and also a pioneer of feminism in Pakistan. She was Pakistan's first female columnist (in English), editor, publisher and political commentator. Zaibunnisa Street in Karachi was named after her.\n\nBefore independence in 1947, she wrote for many Indian newspapers, and was the first Muslim woman to write a column in an Indian newspaper. After independence, her column in the newspaper \"Dawn\" made her the first female political commentator in Pakistan. After she left \"Dawn\", she became the founder and editor-publisher of the \"Mirror\", the first social glossy magazine in Pakistan. Due to her status as Pakistan's first female editor, she became the first woman to be included in press delegations sent to other countries. On one of these delegations, in 1955, she became the first woman to speak at the ancient al-Azhar University in Cairo, Egypt.\n\nZeb-un-Nissa Ali was born in 1921 to a literary family in Calcutta. Her father, S. Wajid Ali, was the first person to translate the writings of the well-known Urdu poet Muhammad Iqbal into Bengali, and was an avid Bengali and Indian nationalist and writer. She had two brothers, and one half-brother from her mother's second marriage. She grew up in a tightly-knit Anglo-Indian household filled with Bengali thinkers and philosophers of the age, as her father's house at 48, Jhowtalla Road, was something of a meeting place for the Calcutta literary circle. She started to write at an early age, and received considerable support from both her English mother and Bengali father. A lonely child, Zeb-un-Nissa took to writing poetry as a means to express her thoughts and emotions. Her later writing was affected by her trips to rural areas of Bengal and the Punjab, including her father's birthplace, the Bengali village of Tajpur. She was educated at the Loreto House Convent.\n\nIn 1940, she married Khalifa Muhammad Hamidullah. Unlike most marriages of the time, hers was not an arranged marriage. She moved with him to the Punjab, Pakistan after their marriage. He worked there as an executive for the Bata shoe company. During independence in 1947, she and her husband helped refugees coming across the border from India.\n\nHer husband, belonged to a well-known Punjabi family. His father, Khalifa Mohammad Asadullah, was the librarian of the Imperial Library in Calcutta (now Kolkata). Hamidullah was the head of Bata's operations in Pakistan, and was sent to head Bata in Ireland in 1972.\n\nAll of her books were dedicated to him, proof of their devotion to one another. They had two children: Nilofar (b. 1943) and Yasmine (b. 1949).\n\nAfter moving to the Punjab in 1942, Begum Hamidullah was shocked. Raised in an Anglo-Indian household, she found it hard to adjust to the very different lifestyle of her husband's large Punjabi family. It took time for her to adjust, as she admitted in the foreword to \"The Young Wife\".\n\nBegum Hamidullah first came into prominence in 1936, when a poem of hers was accepted for publication by Bombay's \"Illustrated Weekly of India\". From then on, she was a regular contributor to that newspaper, until independence in 1947. In 1941, her first book of poetry, \"Indian Bouquet\", was published by her father's publishing house and proved to be very popular. All copies of the first edition were sold in three months. She followed up on her early success with \"Lotus Leaves\", another book of poetry.\n\nIn 1945, Begum Hamidullah and her husband were in Simla at the time of the Simla Conference. It was here that she met Fatima Jinnah. They became friends, and Jinnah soon managed to get her an exclusive interview with her brother, Muhammad Ali Jinnah. This was a landmark in the young Begum Hamidullah's career, and it brought her India-wide fame. Her stories, poems and articles also began to bring her more fame around this time.\n\nAfter independence in 1947, Begum Hamidullah decided to work in the field of journalism, and soon established herself as an outspoken writer in her column \"Thru a Woman's Eyes\", in the Karachi daily \"newspaper Dawn\". This column began in December 1948. After some time, she rebelled against the limited scope of the feature, declaring that women should have the right to comment on every subject, including politics. Altaf Husain, then editor of \"Dawn\", eventually agreed to give her a wider scope. He recognised the merit of her work by giving her a new assignment – that of a columnist appearing on the editorial page. Begum Hamidullah became the first female political commentator of Pakistan. Her column established her reputation as an honest columnist who was not afraid to voice her opinions. It was also a huge step for the women's rights movement in Pakistan.\n\nIn 1951, she left \"Dawn\", after editor Altaf Husain demanded that she focus her writing on \"issues relating to women,\" and not tackle political developments. Hamidullah founded a monthly magazine called the \"Mirror\", and became its editor and publisher in 1952. She became a businesswoman as well as the first female editor and publisher in the nation. Her glossy social pictorial, with its courageous and sincere editorials, was an instant success.\n\nThe \"Mirror\" became very popular, and Begum Hamidullah soon became quite famous as a journalist and editor. The Pakistani government included her in numerous press delegations during this period.\n\nShe was one of the founding members of the Pakistani Working Women's Association, as well as a close friend of Fatima Jinnah, sister of Mohammed Ali Jinnah, and Begum Ra'ana Liaquat Ali Khan, wife of Pakistan's first prime minister, Liaquat Ali Khan. Some of her other close friends were: Hakim Said, Salima Ahmed, Ardeshir Cowasjee, Syed Hashim Raza, Shaista Ikramullah, and Jahanara Habibullah.\n\nShe was a founder member of the Karachi branch of Business and Professional Women's Foundation, and served as its first chapter-president. She held this position for two consecutive terms. She was also the first president of the \"Women's International Club\" of Karachi, a member of the Horticultural Society, and first woman-president of the Flower Show Committee. Another organisation Hamidullah played an important role in was the All Pakistan Women's Association, founded by her friend Begum Raana Liaquat Ali Khan.\n\nIn 1955, as part of a press delegation to Cairo, she became the first woman to speak at the ancient Al-Azhar University. Her speech was controversial, as she discussed Pakistan's Kashmir issue. However, it was a great distinction for her.\n\nIn 1956, Begum Hamidullah wrote a travelogue entitled \"Sixty Days in America\", about her trip to the USA as part of a World Leaders Program, during which she befriended people like Marilyn Monroe and Jean Negulesco, and appeared on \"The Ed Sullivan Show\". This travelogue consisted of columns she had written for a newspaper, \"The Times of Karachi\", during her trip. The editor, ZA Suleri, gave her permission to reprint the columns in book form as a travelogue which she did.\n\nThe following year, she represented Pakistan at the United Nations sponsored seminar on Civic Responsibilities and Increased Participation of Asian Women in Public Life.\n\nIn 1957, her outspoken criticism of the harsh regime of Major-General Iskander Mirza, and the forced resignation of Huseyn Shaheed Suhrawardy, culminated in a six-month government ban on the \"Mirror\", issued on 9 November. This ban, she was privately informed, would be withdrawn if she publicly apologised. She refused to do this and, on the advice of the well-known lawyer A.K. Brohi, appealed to the Supreme Court of Pakistan.\n\nAfter Brohi's intervention on her behalf, the Supreme Court passed judgement in her favour. Holding the order of the Central Government illegal and unconstitutional, the government awarded her the costs of petition to Begum Hamidullah. This incident made journalistic history, and gave her the distinction of being the first woman journalist to have won a case in the Supreme Court.\n\nIn 1958, she published an anthology of her short stories, \"The Young Wife and Other Stories\", which was so popular that second and third editions were printed in 1971 and 1987 respectively. Eminent critics, from newspapers and periodicals both Pakistani and foreign, called some of the stories in it \"...the most significant literary productions of Pakistan\". It was during this period that her editorials started to become a major feature of the \"Mirror\", and this increased the popularity of both her and her magazine.\n\nIn April 1961, Begum Hamidullah opened her own publishing house: Mirror Press. Mirror Press, and its subsidiary, Mirror Publications, were charged with printing the Mirror from 1961 onwards. They also did other jobs, but the publishing house remained small.\n\nThe \"Mirror\" became a highly controversial magazine in the '60s, mainly due to Begum Hamidullah's editorials, which were highly critical of the government's authoritarian form of rule. As her magazine became and more and more risqué, Begum Hamidullah began to feel that she and her family could soon be in danger. Highly critical of Ayub Khan and his government, Begum Hamidullah dropped out of governmental favour. As such, the \"Mirror\" lost government advertisements and patronage.\n\nDuring this period, she wrote a series of very critical editorials about Ayub Khan's style of government, starting with \"Please, Mr. President!\", a very emotional open letter in which she pleaded with him to stop ordering the police to harm students taking part in demonstrations. After Khan replied to the first editorial with a letter in which he dismissed Begum Hamidullah as \"rashly emotional\", the tension steadily increased. The \"Mirror\" came close to being banned many times, and was actually banned twice. However, this period of her career came to a climax in the February 1969 edition of the \"Mirror\", in which she published both \"Please Mr. President!\" and a new editorial, \"No, thank you, Sir!\". She claimed that the situation had not improved and that \"Pakistanis from Peshawar to Chittagong are crying 'out with Ayub!'\".\n\nAyub Khan soon abdicated, ironically doing exactly what she had advised him to do. However, she continued to write critical editorials whenever she felt the government was in need of a rebuke.\n\nBegum Hamidullah was Deputy Leader of the Pakistani delegation to the United Nations General Assembly from 1970 to 1971. In 1971, after civil unrest and the subsequent independence of Bangladesh, Begum Hamidullah sent a telegram congratulating the new government but chose to remain in Pakistan.\n\nIn 1971, Begum Hamidullah's husband was transferred to Ireland, to head Bata operations there. As neither of her two daughters was willing to take over the magazine, she closed it down, and sold off her publishing house, Mirror Press.\n\nFor most of the 1970s, she and her husband lived in Dublin, Ireland, where he had been transferred. Zaib-un-Nissa put her career on hold to be with her husband, and visited Pakistan regularly. She returned near the end of the decade and began writing a column entitled \"Thinking Aloud\" for the Pakistani magazine \"MAG\", part of the large Jang Group.\n\nIn the early 1980s, she served as president of the All Pakistan Women's Association (APWA), an organisation she had played a major role in since its inception. Still writing columns for the \"Morning News\" of Karachi, she continued to comment on the socio-political aspects of Pakistani society. However, she was becoming increasingly reclusive.\n\nIn 1983, Begum Hamidullah husband had a heart attack, and he died the next year. On the day of his funeral, she wrote what was to become the most famous article of her later career. This introspective piece was published in the \"Morning News\" the day after her husband's death.\n\nShe was plunged into sadness following her husband's death, and soon retired from an active writing life. Disenchanted with the new generation of Pakistanis, Begum Hamidullah fell into seclusion and soon moved in with her daughter, choosing to spend her remaining years with her family. She retired from an active career, and only wrote occasional articles during the 1980s.\n\nIn 1987, however, she was plunged into the public eye once again, when her book of short stories, \"The Young Wife and Other Stories\", was republished due to popular demand. Yet this late fame did not last very long, and she soon went back into seclusion.\n\nBegum Hamidullah died on 10 September 2000, at the age of 81. She had been rushed to the hospital on the 9th, but died in the early hours of the 10th, due to water in her lungs.\n\nAn obituary in \"Dawn\" newspaper said \"even her detractors admired her for the courage of conviction and the strength of character she displayed throughout her life.\" Another newspaper obituary said \"She will be long remembered for her pioneering role in a certain genre of journalism in Pakistan, and as a powerful and courageous writer.\"\n\nIn the 1960s, the government named a major street in the Karachi city centre after her: Zaibunnisa Street.\n\nAfter Begum Hamidullah's death, her copyright passed to her younger daughter, Yasmine S. Ahmed. This included the right to all her pictures, works, etc. Due to popular demand, a fourth edition of \"The Young Wife and Other Stories\" was published by Oxford University Press, Pakistan in August 2008.\n\nThere has been much confusion about the correct spelling of Begum Hamidullah's name. She was originally named Zeb-un-Nissa after the Mughal Princess Zeb-un-Nissa, and kept this spelling of her name throughout most of her life. However, there was much confusion, as, due to the pronunciation, most people thought her name was spelt Zaib-un-Nissa. In 1970, when the government named Zaibunnisa Street in her honour, she changed the spelling of her name permanently to Zaib-un-Nissa Hamidullah. This has become the more common and accepted spelling of her name, and is the spelling most widely used today. However, most readers of the \"Mirror\" still remember her as Zeb-un-Nissa Hamidullah, as that was how she was credited in the magazine. In latter anthologies, like \"A Dragonfly in the Sun\" by Muneeza Shamsie, she was credited as Zaib-un-Nissa Hamidullah.\n\nEven though the first part of her name is now accepted as 'Zaib', there is still some confusion, with various transliterations popping up. Zaibunnisa, Zaibunnissa, Zaibunissa and Zaibunisa are the most common errors.\n\n\n\n"}
