{"id": "40963029", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40963029", "title": "AASRA", "text": "AASRA\n\nAASRA (stylized:\" आसRa\") is a Mumbai-based mental health NGO which is noted for operating a 24-hour Helpline to cater to suicidal and emotionally distressed individuals. The service is an offshoot of Befrienders Worldwide and Samaritans, whose India chapter was established in 1960.\n\n"}
{"id": "44450551", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44450551", "title": "African Americans and birth control", "text": "African Americans and birth control\n\nThe history of African American women and their participation in the birth control movement reflects a very conflicted set of ideals regarding African American women, the use of contraceptive practices and abortion. Prominent historical figures debated whether African American communities would benefit from birth control or if birth control was another methodical scheme put in place to suppress the African American community.\n\nDuring slavery times in the United States, black slave women were viewed as \"breeding slaves\" and \"child bearing women\"—simply vessels to meet the demands for labor in Southern agricultural areas. Through arranged marriages and forced mating with other slaves along with direct rape from slave owners, slave women were subject to frequent sexual exploitation. The women were even blamed for these phenomena as white male masters developed the \"Jezebel\" stereotype of black women as passionate, hypersexual beings who wanted to engage in sexual acts with anyone and everyone.\n\nIn resistance to slavery and specifically sexual oppression, black slave women often resorted to their own forms of abortion and contraception. Southern physician E. M. Pendleton reported that plantation owners frequently complained about \"the unnatural tendency in the African female population to destroy her offspring. Whole families of women ... fail to have any children.\" The women drew upon African folk remedies to concoct medicines that would be shared and spread throughout the slave women community.\n\nAfter the slavery era, black women mobilized in a variety of African American women's clubs across the nation to exercise their beliefs within a political platform. Prominent African American women leaders such as Harriet Tubman, Frances E.W. Harper, Ida Bell Wells-Barnett, and Mary Church Terrell led the founding of the National Association of Colored Women's Clubs. As issues of racism, segregation and discrimination perpetrated life for African Americans in post-slavery America, the NACWC and its 1,500 affiliate clubs worked to promote \"racial uplift with the motto of \"Lifting as We Climb,\" aspiring to show \"an ignorant and suspicious world that our aims and interests are identical with those of all good aspiring women.\" Along with fundraising to establish schools and community services, the NACWC endorsed the movement for birth control as part of its agenda to empower black women and help them achieve better lives.\n\nThe black community of Harlem was particularly interested in birth control for women, and in 1918, the Women's Political Association of Harlem was the first African American women's club to schedule lectures on birth control. Their efforts continued with the Harlem Community Forum inviting Margaret Sanger to speak in March 1923 and the Urban League asking the American Birth Control League to establish a birth control clinic in the city. In 1925, Sanger attempted to open a nearby clinic in the largely black Columbus Hill area, but the clinic only ran for three months before closing because of low attendance. Some reasons for the low patient turnout could have been because many African Americans were transitioning out of the neighborhood or because of lack of engagement with community leaders. Despite this initial failure, Sanger continued to push for more clinics in struggling areas. In 1932, she opened a successful clinic in Harlem with the support from black churches in Harlem as well as an all-black Advisory Council. Black ministers of Harlem churches spoke at public meetings and used the churches as spaces for educational lectures. The Harlem clinic's patient clientele was about half black and half white, and in the first year and a half, almost 3,000 people visited the clinics. As more black women's clubs were established and as more black women participated in these organized clubs, more black women became aware of birth control methods and information.\n\nIn July 1932, Margaret Sanger published a special issue of her magazine entitled the Birth Control Review. The issue was titled the \"Negro Number\" and called on prominent African Americans to display why birth control was beneficial to the African American community. Authors such as W.E.B Du Bois and George Schuyler contributed to the magazine stating different reasons why they believed contraception was an asset for Blacks\n\nDuBois addressed the issue of birth control as a means of empowerment for African Americans in the article \"Black Folk and Birth Control\". DuBois believed that voluntary birth control could serve as a way for Blacks to plan their families and secure their economic futures by not producing more children than the family could afford. He also addressed the issue of African Americans and the belief that in order to gain a substantial amount of power, Blacks need to produce more offspring. DuBois stated, \"They must learn that among human races and groups, as among vegetables, quality and not mere quantity counts.\"\n\nGeorge S. Schuyler based his entire article on the idea that the viability of Black offspring was more important than the overall number of children produced. Schuyler's article, Quantity or Quality, was a critique of the idea that sheer numbers, in terms of offspring, could bring African Americans the power and equality that they were working toward. Schuyler argued that the health of the Black family, and most specifically health of the black woman, should be the focus of the birth control debate. The article made it clear that if Black women were able to plan their pregnancies, then there would be a chance that the infant mortality rates would decrease. Schuyler observed, \"If twenty-five percent of the brown children born die at birth or in infancy because of the unhealthful and poverty-stricken conditions of the mothers and twenty-five percent more die in youth or vegetate in jails and asylums, there is instead of a gain a distinct loss.\"\n\nContraception was not unilaterally accepted in the African American community during the early 20th century. Birth control to some seemed like a method of population control that could be administered by the government to suppress the Black population. Marcus Garvey and Julian Lewis were both against birth control for African Americans for this reason though the approach differed. Garvey, as a Black Nationalist, believed in the \"power in numbers\" theory when it came to how Blacks would obtain power in the U.S. Garvey was also a Roman Catholic. Lewis took a more \"scientific\" approach to denouncing contraception.\n\nIn the African American community, abortion has been a highly contested topic, arguably for slightly different reasons than the reasons argued by mainstream society. Abortion and other forms of birth control have been stigmatized among African Americans because of the historical involuntary sterilizations that were performed on many African American women during the 20th century. \"If ever women would enjoy the right to plan their pregnancies, legal and accessible birth control measures and abortions would have to be complemented by an end to sterilization abuse.\" Scholar and activist Angela Davis argued that African American women are not pro-abortion but believe in abortion rights. The impact of slavery has influenced this ideology that abortions are not morally right, but performed in acts of desperation. \"Abortions and infanticides were acts of desperation, motivated not by the biological birth process but by the oppressive conditions of slavery.\" Impoverished African American women were another example provided by Davis for the experience of desperate conditions that could lead her to abort.\n\nShirley Chisholm spoke to the debate from a political perspective in 1970. Chisholm described the decriminalization of abortions as a necessary step toward the safety of women. \"Experience shows that pregnant women who feel that they have compelling reasons for not having a baby, or another baby, will break the law and even worse, risk injury or death if they must get one. Abortions will not be stopped.\"\n\nBlack nationalist parties in the late 1960s and early 1970s tended to view the use of contraceptives in black populations was at best, an ill-conceived public health measure, and at worst a front for a conspiracy of black genocide. For the most part, male-dominated black nationalists were opposed to the promotion of personal fertility control and protested against government funded family planners who they viewed to be putting forth an agenda of black population control.\n\nMuch of the opposition to fertility control was sparked by the sterilization of Minnie Lee and Mary Alice in 1973. The sisters received federally funded birth control grants from the Office of Economic Opportunity (OEO). At the Montgomery Family Planning Clinic, Minnie Lee and Mary Alice, fourteen and seventeen years old at the time respectively, both underwent surgical sterilization without informed consent. Mrs. Relf, their mother was unable to read and was coerced into signing parental consent forms without being able to understand the documents. Additionally, both sisters were forced by clinic staff to sign false documents indicating that they were over twenty-one. The family later filed a complaint through the Southern Poverty Law Center citing that the treatment of the sisters at the clinic was abusive and coercive because 1) neither the mother nor her daughters gave any indication of wanting to undergo surgical sterilization, 2) neither mother nor daughters met with the physician who would perform the operation before the fact, and 3) neither mother nor daughters received information about the consequences of tubal sterilization from a physician or member of the clinic staff. The Relf case prompted many other African American, Native American, and Latina women to come forth with similar stories of coercion. In light of this case, many black nationalist groups came to conflate any birth control movement with a larger conspiracy of black population control.\n\nThe most vocal of these black nationalist groups were the Black Panthers and the Nation of Islam. These two organizations argued that white government family planners posed a threat to the black population by offering them birth control without other health care measures, namely, preventive medicine and hospitals, pre- and postnatal care, nutritional advice, and dentistry. They argued that birth control services remained harmful without adequate solutions to health care problems related to poverty.\n\nAdditionally, other black groups and black scholars vocally criticized the targeting of poor black communities as centers for population control. Ron Walters, chairman of the department of political science at Howard University, a historically black university, was one of the most outspoken critics of population control aimed at black families. He advocated that black communities ought to be responsible for defining their own fertility programs and birth control policies. Members of the Urban League, NAACP, and the Southern Christian Leadership Conference, likewise criticized birth control programs throughout the 1960s. A particular point of contention was the lack of minority representation in Planned Parenthood.\n\nHowever, as the feminist message of the right to abortion and birth control began to become more widespread and as black feminists became more vocal in advocating for birth control access, the views of many Black Nationalist parties began to adapt. By the mid-1970s, the federal government had reduced funding for fertility control and family planning programs were viewed as less favorable after Roe v. Wade, the landmark Supreme Court abortion case. Additionally, vocal criticism of federal family planning programs lead the government to refashion their rhetoric to be less targeted towards poor black communities. Given this context, groups such as the Black Panther's expanded their emphasis on total health care to include birth control and abortion when voluntarily chosen.\n\nThe Black Panther Party was founded in Oakland in 1966 as a black power group with a revolutionary black nationalist and socialist agenda. Upon its inception, the Black Panthers as an organization rejected all forms of reproductive control claiming that governmentally regulated reproductive control was genocidal for blacks. The Black Panthers, and the Black Liberation Army, the military wing of the party, believed that an armed black revolution against white supremacy was possible. They were quick to believe that targeted birth control was part of a governmental plot to reduce the number of blacks in America in order to prevent an armed revolt.\n\nThis suspicious view of birth control was to change throughout the 1970s. In 1971, women in the party vocally pushed back against an anti-birth control position on the basis that large families are difficult to support. They argued that it would be difficult for both men and women to participate politically due to the burden of supporting large families. In 1974, Elaine Brown took over leadership of the party following the exile of founding member Huey Newton. With a woman in power, women's voices gained prominence in the party. Women also came to be more of a presence in the party as a result of the FBI's crackdown in the Black Power movement in the 1970s which resulted in the arrests and deaths of many male party leaders.\n\nBrown actively placed other female members in leadership positions despite push back from male members of the party. However, masculine leadership was reasserted in the party upon Newton's return to the United States in 1976. That being said, Brown's tenure as leader of the party from 1974 to 1976 significantly changed the party's stance on birth control policies and other feminist causes. In particular, the party educated black women on the dangers of forced sterilization and published articles on documented cases of coerced sterilization by the state. In an article published by the Committee to End Sterilization Abuse, the Black Panthers asserted that as high as 20% of black women in the United States had been sterilized. Additionally, the party shifted their rhetoric to emphasize the importance of health care and legal abortion in black communities. Despite their anti-birth control views in the 1960s, in later decades, the party adopted birth control and abortion rhetoric that later played into the reproductive rights movement.\n\nThe Nation of Islam, a black political and religious movement founded in the 1930s were among the first to claim fertility control as a form of genocide in the black community in the 1960s. The group was quick to draw parallels between what they saw as genocidal population control in the United States to population control policies in third world countries. By and large, the rhetoric put forth by the Nation of Islam was viewed by many as alienating and excessively conspiratorial. While the Nation of Islam maintained a more hardline approach to birth control and abortion, they too shifted their rhetoric to push for expanded health care for black communities and greater structural solutions to health problems linked to poverty.\n\nWidespread practices of female sterilization began in the early 1900s. Throughout the 20th century, a majority of states passed laws allowing sterilization, and even requiring it in prescribed circumstances. The first sterilization statutes were passed in Indiana in 1907, and the last was passed in Georgia in 1970. The first sterilization law passed the state of Indiana in 1907 allowed the \"prevention of the procreation of, confirmed criminals, idiots, imbeciles, and rapists.\" The Supreme Court of Indiana declared this statute unconstitutional for a short time in 1921; however but a similar law passed in 1927 was ruled constitutional. In the next fifty years, laws resembling Indiana's sterilization statute were passed in 30 different states. These policies legalized forced sterilization for certain groups, based on race and class lines, many of which were already marginalized.\n\nAs early scientific genetic theories were emerging, eugenics (and thus sterilization) became an accepted way of protecting society from the offspring of those individuals deemed lesser than or dangerous to society – the poor, the disabled, the mentally ill, and particularly, people of color. Several states, most notably North Carolina, even went so far as to set up Eugenics Boards during this time period. These boards reviewed petitions from government and private agencies to perform sterilizations on poor, unwed, disabled women. The most popular form of female sterilization was tubal ligation, a surgical procedure that severs or seals a woman's fallopian tubes, permanently preventing her from conceiving a child. In most cases, medical providers did not have to ask for the women's consent before performing the procedure.\n\nThe Supreme Court case Buck v. Bell (1927) was a landmark case that upheld a state's right to forcibly sterilize a person considered unfit to procreate. The plaintiff, a young woman named Carrie Bell, was the first person to have been sterilized without consent under Virginia's new sterilization statute. Bell had been sterilized because her mother had been involuntarily institutionalized for being \"feebleminded\" and \"promiscuous.\" Upon learning her family history, doctors assumed that Bell had inherited those same traits and saw her as unfit to procreate. After giving birth to her first child, Bell was forcibly sterilized. Ever since the Supreme Court decided in the state's favor, the case has never been overturned. Although Bell was not a woman of color, the same types of preconceived notions that led to her sterilization would justify the sterilizations of countless black women in the decades to come.\n\nSterilization abuse of African American women inflicted by the American government and white medical establishments reached its height in the 1960s and 1970s. Coinciding with the Civil Rights Movement, a time period in which the black community was beginning to gain political autonomy, the government tried restrict blacks' freedom through another channel—preventing black women from becoming mothers.\n\nIn 1970, black women were sterilized at over twice the rate of white women: 9 per 1,000 for black women as compared to 4.1 per 1,000 for white women. A second survey taken in 1973 indicated that 43% of women who underwent sterilization in federally financed family planning programs were also black. The intersection between race and low-income status made black women even more vulnerable to forced sterilization. Many of these black women were poor and could only rely on federally subsidized clinics or Medicaid for health care. Some women had experienced sterilization without consent after a doctor had agreed to perform an illegal abortion; others were pressured into allowing sterilization after receiving a legal hospital abortion. The patterns were even worse for non-married black women; in 1978, the tubal sterilization rate for never-married black women was 529 percent greater than that of their white counterparts.\n\nDuring the 1960s and 1970s, punitive sterilization laws were proposed in California, Connecticut, Delaware, Georgia, Illinois, Iowa, Louisiana, Maryland, Mississippi, Ohio, South Carolina, Tennessee, and Virginia. The purpose of such laws was to reduce the number of children born to poor, unmarried mothers. Many of these laws contained statutes that withheld welfare benefits from women with illegitimate children. As intended, these laws disproportionately affected women of color, particularly African American mothers. According to the ACLU, the Eugenics Board of North Carolina approved 1,620 sterilizations between the years 1960 and 1968. Of that number, 1023 were performed on black women and nearly 56 percent of those were performed on black women under 20 years of age.\n\nAside from government actions, abuses of power also took place in the American medical establishment. One of the most infamous examples of such abuses was the actions of South Carolina physician, Dr. Clovis Pierce. After accepting federal money to perform the sterilizations of 18 Medicaid patients in his clinic, he told women that he would only deliver their third pregnancy on the condition that they would submit to sterilization immediately afterwards. Pierce was able to defend himself against all lawsuits that were brought against him. Furthermore, the South Carolina State branch of the American Medical Association (AMA) unanimously supported Pierce's actions against all of the women.\n\nIn 1973, one particular case brought attention to the issue of forced sterilization. Twelve-year-old Minnie Lee Relf was sterilized without her consent or consent of a parent in a federally funded Health, Education, and Welfare (HEW) health clinic—the Montgomery Family Planning Clinic—in Montgomery, Alabama. The official plaintiff was Katie Relf, the sister of Minnie Lee, and the defendant was Caspar Weinberger, Secretary of the U.S. Department of Health, Education and Welfare.\n\nThe crux of the case challenged a state eugenics statute that authorized the procedure for \"mentally incompetent\" individuals without requiring the girl's consent or that of a guardian. Caseworkers had diagnosed Minnie Lee as mentally retarded and thus were able to apply the statute, although the basis for their diagnosis was extremely questionable. As a result both Minnie Lee and her sister Mary Alice received tubal ligations without their consent. Their mother (who was illiterate) unknowingly authorized the procedure by signing an \"X\", under the false impression that her daughters were being receiving routine birth control injections.\n\nThe District Court initially decided in favor of the Relf sisters; its decision declared certain HEW regulations covering sterilizations to be \"arbitrary and unreasonable\" and prohibited HEW from providing federal funds to be used for the sterilization of \"certain incompetent persons\". The District Court also ordered HEW to amend its overall regulations. During the course of the litigation, HEW was able to withdraw the challenged regulations. Upon appeal, the Court of Appeals held that the case was now rendered inconsequential by HEW's revisionary actions and remanded the case back to the District Court for dismissal.\n\nThe issue of forced sterilization came to the forefront of activists' and scholars' minds in the 1960s and '70s when evidence of widespread sterilization abuse on women of color was uncovered. Disproportionate numbers of black women, among other minority groups like Puerto Ricans and Native Americans, were receiving sterilizations, and many were completed in federally-funded clinics. In the 20th century, 32 states had federally-funded sterilization programs in place.\n\nAnti-sterilization efforts in the 1970s came as the result of several high-profile sterilization abuse scandals. In 1972, President Nixon failed to enact a \"set of Health, Education, and Welfare (HEW) sterilization guidelines\" that would have prevented women from undergoing \"forced or coerced sterilization in federally subsidized clinics.\" This failure was exposed in 1973, when it became known that Mary Alice and Minnie Lee Relf, of Relf v. Weinberger, had undergone sterilizations without their consent at a federally-funded clinic in Alabama. It was later revealed that between 100,000 and 150,000 poor women, mostly of color, had been sterilized using federal dollars. Regulations were quickly put in place after the National Welfare Rights Organization sued HEW in 1974. These regulations \"prohibited the sterilization of anyone less than 21 years of age, required a 72-hour waiting period, and protected a woman from losing her Aid to Families with Dependent Children (AFDC) support if she did not agree to sterilization.\" HEW, however, then created a program through which states were reimbursed for sterilizations of poor women.\n\nThe Committee to End Sterilization Abuse (CESA) was founded in 1974 to combat the abuse of sterilization on women of color. It had a strong \"anti-imperialist orientation\" that attracted a multiracial membership, including white, Puerto Rican, and black women. In 1975, a coalition of groups formed \"an umbrella anti-sterilization abuse organization\" called the Advisory Committee on Sterilization. Members of the coalition included CESA and the National Black Feminist Organization, a group committed to addressing the double burden of racism and sexism faced by black women. The coalition formed to advise the New York City Health and Hospital's Corporation (HHC) on how to prevent forced or coerced sterilization within municipal hospitals.\n\nThe Advisory Committee created a set of guidelines that mandated a 30-day waiting period and required \"that consent not be given at the time of abortion or childbirth; that there be counseling on other fertility control options; that information on sterilization be given in the patient's native language; that the idea for sterilization must originate with the patient; that women could bring a patient advocate and another person of their choosing to accompany them through the process; and that the patient present written understanding of sterilization with an emphasis on its permanence.\" In 1975, these guidelines were passed by HHC and enforced within municipal New York City hospitals, and in a 1977 City Council vote they were extended to all NYC hospitals. Finally, in 1978, the Nadler bill, named for state assemblyman Jerrold Nadler, was passed in the New York state legislature which outlined a set of sterilization regulations similar to the original ones passed by the HHC.\n\nCESA disbanded after the passage of the Nadler bill, and with the HEW sterilization regulations in place, anti-sterilization efforts took the back burner for many feminist activists. In 2013, North Carolina became the first state to compensate its victims of forced sterilization with a payment of $50,000. In North Carolina, 7,600 people were sterilized between 1929 and 1974, 85% of them female and 40% of them nonwhite. Virginia became the second state to provide payments in 2015, giving each living victim $25,000.\n\nContemporary groups that continue to address sterilization within the black community include Incite! and SisterSong. Incite! is a \"national, activist organization of radical feminists of color…[dedicated to] end[ing] all forms of violence against women, gender non-conforming, and trans people of color and our communities. They believe that women, transgender, and gender nonconforming individuals live at \"dangerous intersections\" and are subjected to institutional violence, including sterilization abuse. SisterSong is committed to \"Reproductive Justice,\" which they define as \"the human right to maintain personal bodily autonomy, have children, not have children, and parent the children we have in safe and sustainable communities.\"\n\nWomen of color, frustrated by not having their issues heard by the mainstream white-led reproductive rights organizations, founded their own organizations such as the National Black Women's Health Project and African American Women Evolving directly addressing their specific needs.\n\nThe first National Conference on Black Women's Health Issues was held at Spelman College in 1983 and gave birth to the National Black Women's Health Project (NBWHP) with the intent of bringing African American women's voices on health and reproductive rights to national and international attention.\n\nFounded by health care activist Byllye Avery and incorporated as a nonprofit organization in 1984, the NBWHP was the first women of color reproductive justice organization. The organization later changed its name in 2003 to Black Women's Health Imperative \"to reinforce the need to move beyond merely documenting the health inequities that exist for Black women and to focus on actionable steps to eliminate them.\"\n\nByllye Avery worked in children's and women's health care in a hospital in Gainesville, Florida and joined the board of directors of the National Women's Health Network (NWHN) which informed her organizing the 1983 National Conference on Black Women's Health Issues.\n\nLillie Allen, a health educator concerned with reproductive health education and internalized racism, co-founded the NBWHP. She was the Rockefeller Fellow in Population at Morehouse School of Medicine in Atlanta in 1983 and part of the planning committee for the 1983 National Conference on Black Women's Health Issues.\n\nBased in Atlanta, Georgia, the NBWHP had established chapters in 22 states by the end of 1989 and popularized its message through a network of conferences and workshops, and by publishing a magazine, manuals and educational videos. The NBWHP participated in the 1985 United Nations World Conference for Women in Nairobi, Kenya. In 1990, NBWHP opened a public policy-based office in Washington, D.C. to more actively promote public policies to improve black women's health, such as advising President Clinton's pro-choice administration's health policies and regulation. By then, the NBWHP had moved from being a grassroots organization to advertising black women's health through public policy on a national stage.\n\nAfrican American Women Evolving (AAWE) started as a project within the Chicago Abortion Fund, a predominantly white pro-choice organization, in Chicago in 1996. AAWE was committed to holistic community health education and promoting a black women's health agenda within a primarily white-led organization. After organizing Chicago's first conference on black women's health, AAWE became an independent organization in 1999 incorporating under the National Network of Abortion Funds. The organization later changed its name to Black Women for Reproductive Justice (BWRJ). BWRJ conducted several surveys gathering data on African American women's reproductive health and making that data publicly available. As a predominantly grassroots and pro-choice organization, BWRJ emphasized making health care information and options available to African American women in the Chicago area and Illinois. The organization also worked on policy recommendations, and advised, inter alia, the National Abortion Reproductive Rights Action League (NARAL).\n\n"}
{"id": "5301559", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5301559", "title": "American College of Radiology", "text": "American College of Radiology\n\nThe American College of Radiology (ACR), founded in 1923, is a professional medical society representing more than 38,000 diagnostic radiologists, radiation oncologists, interventional radiologists, nuclear medicine physicians and medical physicists. The ACR is centered on six core functional areas: membership value, quality and safety, advocacy, economics, research, and education.\n\nThe ACR currently has 54 chapters — one from all 50 states, DC, Canada, Puerto Rico and the Council of Affiliated Regional Radiation Oncology Societies (CARROS).\n\nSince 1987, the College has accredited more than 39,000 medical imaging facilities in 10 imaging modalities, including:\n\n\nThe ACR Appropriateness Criteria® (ACR AC) are evidence-based guidelines that assist referring physicians and other providers in making the most appropriate imaging or treatment decision for a specific clinical condition. The guidelines were created to help providers enhance quality of care and contribute to the most efficacious use of radiology. The ACR AC includes 178 diagnostic imaging and interventional radiology topics with 912 clinical variants and over 1,550 clinical scenarios.\n\nACR AC are freely available to all physicians via ACR Select, a module contained within CareSelect Imaging.\n\nIn creating the ACR AC, the ACR Task Force on Appropriateness Criteria incorporated attributes for developing acceptable medical practice guidelines used by the Agency for Healthcare Research and Quality (AHRQ), as designed by the Institute of Medicine.\n\nThe ACR National Radiology Data Registry (NRDR®) develops benchmarks and comparisons to help imaging facilities improve quality of patient care with its collection of registries related to a range of radiological procedures. NRDR aims to help facilities measure progress, document quality, enhance strengths and identify opportunities for improvement by providing objective measures regarding processes and outcomes in comparison to similar facilities nationwide. Available registries include:\n\n\nNRDR has been approved as a Qualified Clinical Data Registry (QCDR) for 2018 MIPS Reporting.\n\n\n\nThe ACR provides patient information through the website Radiologyinfo.org, co-produced by the Radiological Society of North America, to help patients understand how various radiology procedures and radiation therapy are performed.\n\nThe mission of the ACR Foundation is to advance the profession and practice of radiology to benefit patients through specific emphasis on health policy research. The Foundation’s board has focused its efforts on advancing health policy research in an effort to:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "187700", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=187700", "title": "Amniotic sac", "text": "Amniotic sac\n\nThe amniotic sac, commonly called the bag of waters, sometimes the membranes, is the sac in which the fetus develops in amniotes. It is a thin but tough transparent pair of membranes that hold a developing embryo (and later fetus) until shortly before birth. The inner of these fetal membranes, the amnion, encloses the amniotic cavity, containing the amniotic fluid and the fetus. The outer membrane, the chorion, contains the amnion and is part of the placenta. On the outer side, the amniotic sac is connected to the yolk sac, the allantois and, via the umbilical cord, to the placenta.\n\nAmniocentesis is a medical procedure where fluid from the sac is sampled to be used in prenatal diagnosis of chromosomal abnormalities and fetal infections.\n\nThe amniotic cavity is the closed sac between the embryo and the amnion, containing the amniotic fluid. The amniotic cavity is formed by the fusion of the parts of the amniotic fold, which first makes its appearance at the cephalic extremity, and subsequently at the caudal end and sides of the embryo. As the amniotic fold rises and fuses over the dorsal aspect of the embryo, the amniotic cavity is formed.\n\nAt the beginning of the second week, a cavity appears within the inner cell mass and when it enlarges it becomes the amniotic cavity. The floor of the amniotic cavity is formed by the epiblast. Epiblast migrates between the epiblastic disc and trophoblast. In this way the epiblastic cells migrate between the embryoblast and trophoblast. The floor is formed by the epiblast which later on transforms to ectoderm while the remaining cells which are present between the embryoblast and trophoblast are called amnioblasts (flattened cells). These cells are also derived from epiblast which is transformed into ectoderm.\n\nThe amniotic cavity is surrounded by a membrane, called the amnion. As the implantation of the blastocyst progresses, a small space appears in the embryoblast, which is the primordium of the amniotic cavity. Soon amniogenic (amnion forming cells) amnioblasts separate from the epiblast and line the amnion, which encloses the amniotic cavity.\n\nThe epiblast forms the floor of the amniotic cavity and is continuous peripherally with the amnion. The hypoblast forms the roof of the exocoelomic cavity and is continuous with the thin exocoelomic membrane. This membrane along with hypoblast forms the primary yolk sac. The embryonic disc now lies between the amniotic cavity and the primary yolk sac. Cells from the yolk sac endoderm form a layer of connective tissue, the extraembryonic mesoderm, which surrounds the amnion and yolk sac.\n\nIf, after birth, the complete amniotic sac or big parts of the membrane remain coating the newborn, this is called a caul.\n\nWhen seen in the light, the amniotic sac is shiny and very smooth, but tough.\n\nOnce the baby is pushed out of the mother's uterus, the umbilical cord, placenta, and amniotic sac are pushed out in the after birth.\n\nThe amniotic sac and its filling provide a liquid that surrounds and cushions the fetus. It allows the fetus to move freely within the walls of the uterus. Buoyancy is also provided.\n\nChorioamnionitis is inflammation of the amniotic sac (\"chorio-\" + \"amnion\" + \"-itis\"), usually because of infection. It is a risk factor for neonatal sepsis.\n\nDuring labor, the amniotic sac must break so that the child can be born. This is known as rupture of membranes (ROM). Normally, it occurs spontaneously at full term either during or at the beginning of labor. A premature rupture of membranes (PROM) is a rupture of the amnion that occurs prior to the onset of labor. An artificial rupture of membranes (AROM), also known as an amniotomy, may be clinically performed using an amnihook or amnicot in order to induce or to accelerate labour.\n\n"}
{"id": "14967398", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14967398", "title": "Asian Fitness Education Expo", "text": "Asian Fitness Education Expo\n\nAsian Fitness Education Expo (AFEEX) is a fitness education and networking conference organized by the Asian Academy for Sports and Fitness Professionals (AASFP) since 2004. AFEEX provides a platform for sports and fitness professionals in the region of Asia to come together in Beijing and Hong Kong and earn Continuing Education Units from international fitness presenters.\n\n"}
{"id": "1972227", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1972227", "title": "Beano (dietary supplement)", "text": "Beano (dietary supplement)\n\nBeano is an enzyme-based dietary supplement that is used to reduce gas in the digestive tract, thereby improving digestion and reducing bloating, discomfort, and flatulence caused by gas. It contains the enzymes alpha-galactosidase (α-GAL) and invertase. It was introduced as a liquid, but that has been discontinued and it is now available only as tablets and strawberry-flavored \"Meltaways\".\n\nBeano is marketed and distributed by Prestige Brands Holdings, Inc.\n\nBeano contains the enzyme α-GAL, which is derived from the fungus \"Aspergillus niger\". The enzyme works in the digestive tract to break down the complex or branching sugars (polysaccharides and oligosaccharides) in foods such as legumes (beans and peanuts) and cruciferous vegetables (cauliflower, broccoli, cabbage, and brussels sprouts, among others). The enzyme breaks those complex sugars into simple sugars, making these foods somewhat more digestible, and reducing intestinal gas.\n\nThe polysaccharides and oligosaccharides found in these foods might otherwise pass through the small intestine unaffected. Once in the large intestine, those sugars may be metabolized by intestinal flora, fermenting to produce the gases that cause discomfort.\n\nTwo randomized controlled trials show reduction in gas by subjects taking oral α-GAL. Another study indicates it may interfere with the diabetic medication acarbose.\n\nBesides the ingredient α-GAL, Beano tablets also contain a second enzyme, invertase, which catalyzes breakdown of sucrose.\n\nBeano was developed in 1990 by Alan Kligerman of AkPharma after research into gas-causing vegetables that had begun in 1981. The idea for such a product was proposed at least as early as the 1780s in Benjamin Franklin's essay \"A Letter To A Royal Academy\". In 1991, Kligerman was awarded the inaugural Ig Nobel Prize in Medicine for inventing Beano.\n\nIts patent was acquired by GlaxoSmithKline in 2001 from Block Drug. GlaxoSmithKline sold Beano and 16 other brands to Prestige Brands in 2012.\n\nBeano received a on August 29, 1995. The estimated expiration date of this patent is December 5, 2014. , more than four dozen competing products were on the market.\n\nIn April 2014, the brand introduced Beano +Dairy Defense. \n\nSimple sugars are also produced as a consequence of the malting process that eventually produces beer. The complex sugars are not broken down by the yeast, and are eventually consumed by the beer drinker, possibly causing flatulence. Homebrewers have found adding Beano to their brew may produce a beer that has a less malty flavor. The Beano breaks the complex sugars into simple sugars, and these simple sugars are consumed by the yeast, producing alcohol (or some acetic acid in the aerobic reactions in early fermentation).\n"}
{"id": "40040444", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40040444", "title": "Bibliothèque interuniversitaire de santé", "text": "Bibliothèque interuniversitaire de santé\n\nThe Bibliothèque interuniversitaire de Santé (BIU Santé) is a French medical library created in 2011.\n\nIt offers collections in medicine, dentistry, pharmacy and related sciences. The BIU Santé resulted from the merging of two other institutions in 2011: the Bibliothèque interuniversitaire de médecine et d'odontologie (BIUM) and the Bibliothèque interuniversitaire de pharmacie (BIUP), even though the two sites remain distinct.\n\nThe BIUM (\"Bibliothèque interuniversitaire de médecine\") used to be the Library of the Faculty of Medicine of Paris, which was settled in the Middle Ages at “rue de la Bûcherie” and then “rue Jean-de-Beauvais”. The Faculty was removed in 1793. But the National Convention established a Medical School in the former Academy of Surgery, in a building constructed by Jacques Gondouin.\nScattered after the closing of the Faculty, the collections were rebuilt by the surgeon and librarian Pierre Sue. They were joined by other holdings from the former Academy of Surgery, the French Royal society of medicine and some of the Capital’s literary works.\nDuring the 19th century and a major part of the 20th century (until the beginning of the 1970s), the library was known as the Library of the Faculty of Medicine in Paris. Its holdings have been increasing since then.\n\nThe history of the collection of the \"Bibliothèque interuniversitaire de Pharmacie\" (BIUP) goes back to 1570, when four masters of the community of apothecaries and grocers donated works to their corporation. The Common Library’s collection was enhanced by other donations from the guards of the community. Until 1777, when the “Collège de Pharmacie de France” was created. In 1803, the holdings of work and archives went under the responsibility of the secretary of the School of Pharmacy and some teachers (in particular Nicolas Gaston Guibourt).\n\nLibrarians weren’t required by the School of Pharmacy until 1878. Then the post is formalized in February 1882. In the same year, the School and the library moved from the “Jardin des apothicaires”, “rue de l’Arbalète”, to the Faculty of Pharmacy in Paris, “avenue de l’Observatoire”.\n\nAs the establishment’s librarian between 1884 and 1922, the doctor and historian Paul Dorveaux (1851-1938) left a long-lasting imprint on it thanks to the organization of a policy of conservation and acquisition. This policy concerned current scientific production as well as ancient works and manuscripts.\n\nIt was under the directions of the doctor and historian Paul Dorveaux (1936-1961) and Yvonne Ruyssen (1961-1973) that the Library experienced new changes: the growing number of staff, the reorganization of the premises and the opening of a new reading room (the Dorveaux room) in 1958.\n\nAfter the University of Paris’ break-up the two libraries and the Scientific Library were integrated in 1972 the “Bibliothèque interuniversitaire d’Île de France” granted under decree 72-132 of the 10th of February.\n\nBy the decree 78-1122 of 16 November 1978, each of these libraries regained their autonomy under the respective names of “Bibliothèque interuniversitaire de medecine”(BIUM) and ‘Bibliothèque interuniversiaire de pharmacie” (BIUP).The two entities pertain to the Paris Descartes University. But the Interuniversity Library is a common service for Pierre-and-Marie-Curie University, and Paris Diderot University, while the BIUP is a common service for the University of Paris-Sud.\n\nThe merging of these two libraries was decided in September 2009 and became effective in 2011.\n\nThe Library is governed by a convention agreed between the Universities of Paris Descartes, Diderot and Paris-Sud. It is administratively attached to Paris-Descartes University. It is run by a librarian, the latest being Guy Cobolet (general curator).\n\nThe BIU Santé is a CADIST (French acronym for center of acquisition and dissemination of scientific and technical information) for medicine, odontology and cosmetology. It is also an associated center of the National Library of France for medicine and pharmacy.\n\nAs a research library, the BIU Santé is especially dedicated to students, researchers and teachers within health disciplines, including psychology. It greets every non-academic health professional and every person who conducts researches matching its collections.\n\nThe site dedicated to medicine and odontology is established in the old Faculty of Médecine of Paris, “rue de l’Ecole-de-Médecine. These premises shelter the presidency of Paris-Descartes University and the History of Medicine Museum.\n\nThe site dedicated to Pharmacy is part of the old premises of the Faculty of Pharmacy in Paris. A reading room for students (Fialon room) opened in 1991.\n\nReadership : 16 000 registered physical users; 130 000 Net surfers consult the library’s website every month, 60% of them live abroad.\n\nThe medical and odontological pole shelters two reading rooms:\n\n\nThe center of medicine, odontology and cosmetology is currently under construction. It includes two reading rooms:\n\n\nThe « BIU Santé » is a reference library recognized at the international level in medical field. It also owns the total of French dissertations in medicine and dental surgery and keeps one copy of each. The Parisian dissertations collection goes back to 1539. The BIU Santé is the depositary of the legal deposits covering works of medicine and dentistry. The whole collection is one of the three richest in the world, with the National Library of Medicine (USA) and the Wellcome Library (London).\n\nTo gain more room, the BIU Santé delivered a part of its collections to the “Centre technique du livre de l’enseignement supérieur” (technical book center for higher education), also called CTLes. It mostly concerns dissertations from French provinces or foreign countries and magazines written in non-Latin characters. \n\n\n\n\nThe website of the BIU Santé includes:\n\nA scientific magazine called \"e-Mémoires de l’Académie nationale de Chirurgie\" is published by the BIU Santé in collaboration with the National Academy of Surgery.\n\nThe directors are curators and most of them are librarians.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "21735436", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21735436", "title": "Braille watch", "text": "Braille watch\n\nA braille watch is a portable timepiece used by the blind or visually impaired to tell time. It is used by touching the dial and noticing the embossments. Both analog and digital versions are available. The analog versions have a protective glass or crystal cover that is flipped open when time needs to be read and the clock-hands are constructed to not be susceptible to movement at the mere touch of the finger that a blind person uses to observe their positions. \nIn the digital form, the dots (like braille script) keep changing position as time changes. In this case, one must understand the Braille alphabet to read the watch.\n\nElectronic \"talking watches\", which speak the time at the touch of a button, are also popular among people who are blind. \n"}
{"id": "28572685", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28572685", "title": "Cannabis in Malawi", "text": "Cannabis in Malawi\n\nCannabis in Malawi is prohibited, but remains a popular drug and is produced for domestic use and export. In Chichewa, it is locally known as chamba. Chamba is grown mainly in central and northern regions like Mzuzu.\n\nMalawian cannabis, particularly the strain known as Malawi Gold, is internationally renowned as one of the finest sativa strains from Africa. According to a World Bank report it is among \"the best and finest\" marijuana strains in the world, generally regarded as one of the most potent psychoactive pure African sativas. The popularity of this variety has led to such a profound increase in marijuana tourism and economic profit in Malawi that Malawi Gold is listed as one of the three \"Big C's\" in Malawian exports: chambo (Tilapia fish), chombe (tea), and chamba (cannabis).\n\nMalawi is one of the largest producers of cannabis in Southern Africa. It is mainly cultivated in remote parts of the central and northern regions. In the north, it can be found growing in Mzimba District's Likwawa hills, and in Nkohotakota district. Nkhotakota District is known for producing the best marijuana, particularly near the banks of Lupache river. It can also be found at smaller quantities in the districts of Ntchisi, Kasungu, Ntcheu and Dedza. Most growers cultivate small, out of the way fields up on remote mountain hills, hidden in bushes, or intercropped with other field crops. There are a few commercial farmers. The United Nations Development Assistance Framework report that in the late 1990s, estimated that up to in the country were devoted to the cultivation of marijuana. \n\nWomen are largely involved in cultivation of chamba, while men are mainly involved in marketing it. In Malawi, the marijuana buds are cured after being tightly bound in banana or maize leaves. They are sold in units called 'cobs'.\n\nIts quality has led it to out-perform marijuana grown in other countries in terms of sales in each market it is introduced in. International organized groups employ Malawians to purchase and produce cannabis from local producers. It mainly crosses Malawi borders through Mozambique and Zimbabwe, to South Africa. For South Africa, it has led to an increase in marijuana tourism from holiday makers seeking cannabis. More recently Malawian cannabis has now flooded the marijuana markets in Kenya, Tanzania, and many other locales. In Kenya, one cob of pure, smokable marijuana is worth US$1.97. About US$0.32 is paid to the original farmer. It even was available in the Netherlands.\n\nFor many marijuana smokers, the strain Malawi Gold has reached almost a cult status. There are websites and blogs which have been dedicated to the praise of chamba. Legends and myths have developed surrounding the potency of the drug, as an example, there is a popular story about visitors that came to Malawi, tried chamba, and lost the will to return to their country of origin.\n\nMalawi gains a significant amount of its tourism from the marijuana trade. Albeit illegal, the plant grows in the wild in many areas, which has made it hard to control. In the lake areas, many tourists purchase the drug and smoke it in the privacy of their hotel rooms or homes. Tourists in Malawi known to shop for chamba in the Nkhotakota District which has a reputation for producing the best marijuana.\n\nIllegal trade in chamba amounts to an estimated 0.2% of Malawi's GDP or K1.4 billion. The majority of the product is not used locally since it is primarily grown for an export market. Integration in the global market has resulted to unfair trade therefore Malawian growers are getting underpaid. Malawi farmers receive only about a fifth of the price for which it is being sold in foreign consumer markets. It does however, fetch more money than Malawis largest export, tobacco. Most growers do not sell it directly to the market themselves, but instead to national or international traffickers.\n\nCannabis was widely used by the entire population as an intoxicant and as medicine in treating conditions like anthrax, dysentery, fevers, malaria, or snakebites. Rastafari in Malawi now are the proponents that claim medicinal use of the chamba leaves. A research study entitled, \"Patients' Perceptions of Chamba (marijuana) Use in Malawi\" was conducted in Zomba Mental Hospital was published in the International Journal of the Addictions in 1998. It had it implications for the development of treatment and prevention programs for chamba users in Malawi.\n\nMalawian Rastafari have been using marijuana as part of their spiritual awakening for years. The Rastafari cite religious importance in the use of the plant.\n\nMalawians have been using cannabis for recreational use for generations. The use of cannabis is particularly popular along the lake side. Many Malawians claim that cannabis helps them to relax and concentrate. Local students use cannabis to prevent pre-exam jitters. Police raids are common, however recreational use of cannabis remains unabated. Many backpackers and overlanders are attracted to Malawi due to recreational use of inexpensive cannabis.\n\nGrowing, selling, using, or possessing cannabis is a criminal offense in Malawi. Although cannabis is illegal in Malawi, it is estimated to be the largest unofficial export. Malawian economists group the illegal export as one of the three 'Big C's' in Malawian exports \"chambo\" (fish), \"chombe\" (tea) \"chamba\" (cannabis)'. The growth in sales means that there are growers cultivating the drug illegally in Malawi due to the large profits they gain from its sales. However a recent World Bank study reported that Malawian farmers are being underpaid for their labor in the trade. The production and selling of chamba has been increasing in Malawi over the past few years. The efforts to curb its production and selling is also on the increase. Anti-drug unit is led by the Malawi Police Services that confiscate about 70,000 kilos of cannabis per year for the year 2010.\n\nBelow are the United Nations figures on number of cannabis seizures in Malawi from 1995 - 2000 published in the 2003 Institute for Security Studies Report:\nRastafari in Malawi have gone to court to demand their right to smoke cannabis. In 2000, the government briefly explored the possible legalization of Indian hemp, despite police warnings of potential abuse by cannabis growers. This was championed in parliament by Deputy Minister of Agriculture Joe Manduwa who argued that the plant could be a valuable alternative to tobacco. The idea was supported by member of parliament and medical doctor, Hetherwick Ntaba who argued that it is non-addictive.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "49597766", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49597766", "title": "Carlos III Health Institute", "text": "Carlos III Health Institute\n\nThe Carlos III Health Institute (; ISCIII) is a Spanish public health research institute. Legally, it is constituted as an Organismo Público de Investigación, a type of quasi-autonomous entity under Spanish law. Since 2011 it has reported to the Ministry of Economy and Competitiveness. \n\nThe institute is named after Charles III of Spain. It was founded in 1986 to promote research in biomedicine and health sciences and to develop and provide scientific and technical guidance for the Spanish National Health System and the benefit of society in general.\n\n"}
{"id": "40807627", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40807627", "title": "Chakshumathi", "text": "Chakshumathi\n\nChakshumathi is a nongovernmental, not for profit organization based in Thiruvananthapuram, Kerala, India, working for developing resources for the use of visually impaired people. It is an \"Empowerment and Assistive Technology Centre for Blind\". The organization, which was inaugurated in June 2011, is a member of DAISY Forum of India. The organization is currently headed by V.K. Damodaran, a former President of Kerala Sasthra Sahithya Parishad. \n\nThe organization is engaged in the following activities:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "26167002", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26167002", "title": "Creighton University School of Medicine", "text": "Creighton University School of Medicine\n\nThe Creighton University School of Medicine is the graduate medical school at Creighton University in Omaha, Nebraska, United States, and grants the Doctor of Medicine (MD) degree. It was founded in 1892. A new satellite campus opened in 2012 at St. Joseph's Hospital and Medical Center in Phoenix, Arizona, becoming the first Jesuit medical program west of Omaha. All matriculating students complete preclinical coursework in Omaha, and 42 third-year students complete their clinical rotations in Phoenix, with elective options at both campuses during their fourth year.\n\nIn 2017, the new primary teaching hospital will be Bergan Mercy Medical Center. Both are affiliates of CHI Health, a division of Catholic Health Initiatives.\n\nFor the class of 2018, Creighton received 6771 applications and interviewed 649 students for its total class sized of 155 matriculants. The average GPA for admitted students was a 3.77, with an average MCAT of 30 (10 VR/10 PS/10 BS). The current class consists of 75 (48.4%) males and 80 (51.6%) females.\n\n\"In the Jesuit, Catholic tradition of Creighton University, the mission of the School of Medicine is to improve the human condition with a diverse body of students, faculty, and staff who provide excellence in educating students, physicians and the public, advancing knowledge, and providing comprehensive patient care.\"\n\nThere have been 17 deans of Creighton University School of Medicine since its founding.\n\n^ denotes term of acting dean\n\nThe first two years of school, known as the preclinical years, focus on learning the science of medicine. The first year consists of classes in Anatomy, Molecular and Cell Biology, Ethical and Legal Topics in Clinical Medicine, Interviewing and Physical Exam, Host Defense, Principles of Microbiology, Evidence Based Medicine, Principles of Pharmacology, Behavioral Medicine I, CU Humanities Program, Neuroscience, and Physicians Lifestyle Management. Healer's Art is an elective course that can be taken at the beginning of the spring semester. Following spring break, the M1 year ends with the first organ systems course, Neuroscience.\n\nThe second year of medical school consists of organ systems based classes that last from 2–5 weeks each. These courses include Infectious Diseases, Hematology/Oncology, Cardiovascular, Behavioral Medicine II, Respiratory, Renal, Endocrine/ Reproduction, Musculoskeletal/ Integument, Gastrointestinal, and Behavioral Medicine II. There are also two concurrent classes that run throughout the year which include Case Studies in Medicine and Applied Clinical Skills. The year ends with review and time to study for the USMLE Step 1 which is taken between the end of May and the middle of June.\n\nThe third and fourth years of medical school consist of clinical rotations throughout hospitals and clinics. There are eight third year clinical rotations that last 8 weeks each: Ambulatory Primary care, Inpatient Medicine, Psychiatry, Surgery, Pediatrics, and Obstetrics and Gynecology. Fourth year consists of 1 4-week surgical selective, 1 4-week critical care selective, 1 4-week primary care selective or 2nd critical care selective, and an additional 24 weeks of clinical electives with no more than 8 weeks of non-clinical electives. A senior Objective structured clinical examination (OSCE) is required prior to completion of USMLE Step 2 CS and graduation.\n\nThird year medical students are able to do family medicine rotations in rural Iowa, Nebraska, Wyoming, and Arizona. Creighton also sends a group of third year students to San Francisco for internal medicine rotations.\n\nCreighton University School of Medicine in Omaha and St. Joseph's Hospital and Medical Center have created an academic affiliation that will create a Creighton medical school presence in Phoenix. The Creighton campus in Phoenix will be the only Catholic medical school campus located west of Omaha.\n\nThe affiliation will expand educational opportunities available to Creighton medical students while allowing the University's School of Medicine to recruit more students. The collaboration is also designed to strengthen the medical reputations of both institutions, promote the sharing of faculty and administrative expertise, create collaborative research opportunities, and enhance medical services for Arizona patients.\n\nSince 2005, Creighton and St. Joseph's have had an agreement that sends Creighton medical students to Phoenix for one-month rotations. Under the new affiliation, Creighton will establish a fully operational campus at St. Joseph's that will offer two full years of clinical training. Creighton expanded its entering medical class from 126 to 152 students in 2010. All students will train for their first two years in Omaha. Starting in 2012, 42 third-year students will move to Phoenix for their final two years of training, and 110 third-year students will remain in Omaha. The Phoenix campus will graduate its first students in 2014.\n\nCreighton emphasizes community service, and even though it is not required, 100% of students participate in some form of service during their time in medical school. Creighton students operate and staff the Magis Clinic, which provides free health care to the homeless and poor in Omaha.\n\nBetween first and second year, many medical students participate in Project CURA. CURA is a student-run program which sends medical missions to countries including Peru, Ghana, India, and Nicaragua. CUSOM is also home to the Institute for Latin American Concern (ILAC), which sends fourth-year medical students, as well as pharmacy and nursing students, to the Dominican Republic.\n\nCreighton is a co-ed medical fraternity located near campus. Fraternity members take turns preparing nightly meals and share a large house near campus. All residents have their own rooms, with private or shared bathrooms. Phi Chi is known for its annual Halloween party.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "9941147", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9941147", "title": "Cremation in Romania", "text": "Cremation in Romania\n\nThe 20th century history of cremation in Romania began in 1923, when the Romanian Cremation Society, called \"Cenuşa\" (\"Ashes\"), was formed. In February 1928, the Bucharest Crematorium, also called Cenuşa, began operations. It cremated 262 corpses that year, the figure rising to 602 in 1934. In 1935, 0.19% of Romania's dead were cremated there.\n\nAside from the Soviet Union, Romania was the only nation in Eastern Europe to have an operational crematorium before World War II, though one was built in Debrecen, Hungary in 1932, it was not opened until 1951. In the interwar period, Cenuşa was privately run and built the crematorium from its own funds. It faced opposition from the dominant Romanian Orthodox Church, which still prohibits cremation, and suffered from financial shortfalls. It was somewhat reliant on \"administrative cremations\" of, for instance, body parts from anatomical institutions, which paid well. By 1937, the society was making gains. It recruited 184 members that year, bringing the total to 1006. In 1934 it had begun an eight-page monthly journal, \"Flacăra Sacră\" (\"The Sacred Flame\"), focusing on domestic and international developments in the field. However, Cenuşa failed to join the International Cremation Federation (ICF) when it was established in 1938.\n\nWorld War II brought change to the status of cremation in Romania. In 1938, a cremator that had been ordered and paid for was not delivered before the war's outbreak. When Bucharest was bombed in 1944, the crematorium suffered considerable damage, leading to further financial difficulties for the society. However, religious opposition softened somewhat, and corpses from the provinces were brought in increasing numbers. In 1945 there were 600 cremations, up from 225 in 1944.\n\nThe contact established between the ICF and Cenuşa in late 1946 was the last to occur for decades, as the Communist regime was installed soon after. During the Communist period, many prominent regime figures, including Gheorghe Gheorghiu-Dej, Chivu Stoica and Teohari Georgescu, were cremated and had their ashes placed in the \"Monument of the Heroes for the Freedom of the People and of the Motherland, for Socialism\" in Bucharest's Carol Park, whence they were removed after the Romanian Revolution of 1989. \"The Internationale\" was customarily played for them at their cremation, although Ana Pauker's family had Beethoven's Third Symphony played instead.\n\nBy late 1987, the Ceauşescu regime's problems were also affecting cremation, as a power crisis meant that low gas pressure was insufficient to allow for full cremation of corpses. Anti-regime groups charged that some ashes were given to families and the half-cremated bodies disposed of in mass burials. However, corpses of wealthy and powerful figures were retained until sufficient pressure existed for a full cremation.\n\nAfter a fairly rapid post-war advance, the incidence of cremation slowed considerably. A second crematorium, \"Vitan-Bârzeşti\" (named after the Bucharest neighbourhood where it is located), was opened in 1993, after Ceauşescu's fall from power. Nevertheless, in 1999, 1172 cremations were performed in Romania, representing just 10% of deaths in Bucharest. In neighbouring Bulgaria, which opened its first crematorium in 2001, almost 5% of nationwide dead – 5254 – were cremated in 2002.\n\n"}
{"id": "1173050", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1173050", "title": "Cyclic vomiting syndrome", "text": "Cyclic vomiting syndrome\n\nCyclic vomiting syndrome (US English) or cyclical vomiting syndrome (UK English) (CVS) is a chronic functional condition of unknown cause characterised by recurring attacks of intense nausea, vomiting, and sometimes abdominal pain, headaches, or migraines. CVS typically develops during childhood, usually between ages 3 and 7; although it often remits during adolescence, it can persist into adult life.\n\nSufferers may vomit or retch 6–12 times in an hour and an episode may last from a few hours to over three weeks and in some cases months, with a median episode duration of 41 hours. Acid, bile and, if the vomiting is severe, blood may be vomited. Some sufferers will ingest water to reduce the irritation of bile and acid on the esophagus during emesis. Between episodes, the sufferer is usually normal and healthy otherwise but can be in a weak state of fatigue or experience muscle pain. In approximately half of cases the attacks, or episodes, occur in a time-related manner. Each attack is stereotypical; that is, in any given individual, the timing, frequency and severity of attacks is similar.\n\nEpisodes may happen every few days, every few weeks or every few months. For some sufferers, there is not a pattern in time that can be recognized. Some sufferers have a warning of an attack; they may experience a prodrome, usually intense nausea and pallor, heightened sensitivity, especially to light, though sensitivity to smell, sound, pressure, and temperature, as well as oncoming muscle pain and fatigue, are also reported by some patients. The majority of sufferers can identify triggers that may precipitate an attack. The most common are various foods, infections (e.g., colds), menstruation, extreme physical exertion, lack of sleep, and psychological stresses, both positive and negative.\n\nA sufferer may also be light-sensitive (photophobic), sound-sensitive (phonophobic) or, less frequently, temperature- or pressure-sensitive during an attack. Some sufferers also have a strong urge to bathe in warm or cold water. Some sufferers report that they experience a restless sensation or stinging pain along the spine, hands, and feet followed by weakness in both legs. Some of these symptoms may be due to dehydration rather than the underlying cause of CVS.\n\nMany affected individuals have a family history of related conditions, such as migraines, in their mothers and maternal relatives, suggesting mitochondrial inheritance. Single base-pair and DNA rearrangements in the mitochondrial DNA have been associated with these traits.\n\nThe cause of CVS has not been determined and there are no diagnostic tests for CVS. Several other medical conditions, such as cannabinoid hyperemesis syndrome, can mimic the same symptoms, and it is important to rule these out. If all other possible causes have been excluded, a diagnosis of CVS may be appropriate.\n\nOnce formal investigations to rule out gastrointestinal or other causes have been conducted, these tests do not need to be repeated in the event of future episodes.\n\nAlthough there are differences between early-onset CVS (babies and children) and late-onset CVS (in adults), there are established criteria to aid in diagnosis of CVS, namely:\n\nThere is no known cure for CVS, but there are medications that can be used for treatment, intervention, and prevention. There is a growing body of publications on both individual cases and the experiences of the CVS cohort. Treatment is usually on an individual basis, based on trial and error.\n\nThe most common therapeutic strategies for those already in an attack are maintenance of salt balance by appropriate intravenous fluids and, in some cases, sedation. Having vomited for a long period prior to attending a hospital, patients are typically severely dehydrated. For a number of patients, potent anti-emetic drugs such as ondansetron (Zofran) or granisetron (Kytril), and dronabinol (Marinol) may be helpful in either preventing an attack, aborting an attack, or reducing the severity of an attack. Lifestyle changes may be recommended, such as extended rest and reduction of stress. Because the symptoms of CVS are similar (or perhaps identical) to those of the disease well-identified as \"abdominal migraine\", treatment of CVS with a regimen of anti-migraine drugs, such as topiramate and amitriptyline, is showing promise in preventing recurrent attacks.\n\nFitzpatrick et al. (2007) identified 41 children with CVS. The mean age of the sample was 6 years at the onset of the syndrome, 8 years at first diagnosis, and 13 years at follow-up. As many as 39% of the children had resolution of symptoms immediately or within weeks of the diagnosis. Vomiting had resolved at the time of follow-up in 61% of the sample. Many children, including those in the remitted group, continued to have somatic symptoms such as headaches (in 42%) and abdominal pain (in 37%).\n\nMost children who have this disorder miss on average 24 school days a year. The frequency of episodes is higher for some people during times of excitement. Charitable organizations to support sufferers and their families and to promote knowledge of CVS exist in several countries.\n\nThere is little hard evidence of death as a result of the condition. However, in severe cases the fluid loss can lead to potentially life-threatening electrolyte imbalances. The patient can also become malnourished if the attacks last too long without adequate replenishment of nutrients. With adequate medical interventions, most patients can be properly supported during an episode.\n\nThe average age at onset is 3–7 years, but CVS has been seen in infants who are as young as 6 days and in adults who are as old as 73 years. Typical delay in diagnosis from onset of symptoms is 2.7–3 years. Females show a slight predominance over males; the female-to-male ratio is 57:43.\n\nCyclic vomiting syndrome was first described in France by Swiss physician Henri Clermond Lombard and first described in the English language by pediatrician Samuel Gee in 1882.\n\nIt has been suggested that Charles Darwin's adult illnesses may have been due to this syndrome.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "55698286", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55698286", "title": "Disability in Taiwan", "text": "Disability in Taiwan\n\nAs of 2007, there are almost one million people with various levels of physical and mental disabilities in Taiwan. Taiwan adopted a universal healthcare system in 1995 to properly support patient care and provide more transparent access to its people, including those who identify as disabled.Taiwan is a nation that has grown tremendously to support those that are disabled. This includes having a socialized form of medical care that is run by the executive branch of government known as “Yuan”. Overall this universal scheme includes the law, public facilities, and educational aspect of healthcare. Taiwan also has different aspects of healthcare to effectively support those that are disadvantaged or disabled, this included subsidies, loans, plans, service guarantee and specific care for medically vulnerable populations. Taiwan's healthcare development and dedication to support its people plays an important role in its transformation of benefits for the disabled.\n\nPrior to the 1980s, the term referring to people with disabilities translated to \"useless and worthless disability\".  The government was not responsible for providing supporting or funding those with disabilities. Families and non-profit, private organizations were responsible for supporting the disabled. However, institutions were not regulated, as some were inhumane and the quality of service, questionable. However, as Taiwan underwent industrialization, mothers were forced to enter the work force and could no longer support their children with disabilities. The once-questionable facilities were forced to reform and become suitable for taking care children with disabilities. In addition, in 1975, the United Nations released the \"Declaration of the Rights of Disabled Persons\" which forced the government to reform their original disability policy.Taiwanese disability policies became heavily influenced by international disability laws and regulations. From the first disability policy reform to 2007, a medical model became the standard for disability evaluation. \n\nIn 1980, the Welfare Law for the Handicapped and Disabled was enacted which listed six types of disabilities. The law has been amended several times since then until in 1997 it became the Protection Law for the Handicapped and Disabled listing fourteen disabilities. In 2006, Taiwan adopted the Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities to upholds its human rights protection for people with disabilities. Disabilities Rights Protection Act was enacted in July 2007. Taiwan Accessibility Building Code was amended in 2008 for buildings to provide more access for disabled people. Public Officials Election and Recall Law was amended on 26 November 2008 to ensure any polling place is barrier-free venue or equipped with tools or additional facilities if such venue does not exist.\n\nDisabled people in Taiwan are entitled to receive subsidies, benefits, house value-added tax rebate and income tax rebate depending on their level of disability.\n\nAny employer shall not discriminate against any disabled candidates or refusing employment due to his/her disability. Private companies must employ at least one person with disability for every 67 person employed. As of September 1998, Lienchiang County has the best performance of meeting the disabled employment quota among all municipalities, cities or counties in Taiwan. Unemployment among disabled people in Taiwan is 14.7%, triple of the amount of those general population which is 4.99%.\n\nAirports provide personnel to assist disabled people free of charge throughout the entire journey from check-in until baggage reclaim.\n\nAll of the metro, subway and high speed rail in Taiwan are equipped with accessibility for disabled people.\n\nNew public buses in Taipei are equipped with wheelchair access and designated areas. Most of traffic lights are equipped with audible signal for visually impaired people.\n\nPolling places are fitted with barrier-free access. In the event of unavailability of such facility, then relevant tool are used to help disabled people cast their ballots.\n\nAccording to the Population of People with Disability Report, 107,450 elementary and middle school students or 3% of the total number of elementary and middle school students are students with disabilities. After the adoption of the Functioning Scale of the Disability Evaluation System---Child Version (FUNDES-Child) in 2007, the focus on child disability shifted. FUNDES-CHILD was developed with the intention of locating children in the nation for the introduction of a new service policy developed according to the framework of the International Classification of Functioning, Disability and Health: Children and Youth Version. The definition of disability was refined to include more than health and body impairment related disabilities. In a study to identify the children and the gap between independence and frequency, in which independence means the capability of a child or what they \"can do\" which the frequency pertains to the extent to which they can carry out a task or what a child \"does do\", the children with mild severity in Taiwan showed more frequency restrictions. In another study, children with intellectual disability showed more signs of \"aggression, self-injurious behavior or physical complaints\" but not signs of \"depression and anxiety complaints.\"\n\nThere are separate policies for children and adults. One of the policies for students with disabilities is the Taiwan Special Education Act of 2013 to provide special education laws. Before the Taiwan Special Education Act of 2013, there was The First Children's Development Center founded in 1981 for students with intellectual disabilities. However, there are no regulations for children under the age of 2, as regulations only allow school age students to utilize special education services. Educational institutions are required to accommodate and meet the needs of all students, providing the necessary accommodations, assistive technology and accessible campus. Another policy that pertains to children with disabilities is the Taiwan People with Disabilities Rights Protection Act of 2013. Children are protected from anti-discrimination statute. Through the increased human-rights advocacy and the civil rights movement for disabilities, Taiwan has been improving disability rights by creating more inclusive communities and increasing opportunities for students with disabilities.\n\nThere are 20 special schools in Taiwan dedicated for the blind, deaf, handicapped and mentally retarded students. Students are either take bus or live within the school compounds. Those with severe disabilities, visiting teachers will visit them to hospitals or homes.\n\nAs of 1999, budget for special education by the Ministry of Education is NT$3.58 billion. The ministry also subsidizes private charity organizations that help disabled people.\n\nNon-profit organizations in Taiwan that promotes the awareness and help for disabled people are:\n\n"}
{"id": "3352657", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3352657", "title": "Duction", "text": "Duction\n\nA duction is an eye movement involving only one eye. There are generally six possible movements depending upon the eye's axis of rotation:\n\nThe forced duction test is performed in order to determine whether the absence of movement of the eye is due to a neurological disorder or a mechanical restriction.\n\nThe anesthetized conjunctiva is grasped with forceps and an attempt is made to move the eyeball in the direction where the movement is restricted. If a mechanical restriction is present, it will not be possible to induce a passive movement of the eyeball.\n\n"}
{"id": "26910413", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26910413", "title": "Eclipsys", "text": "Eclipsys\n\nEclipsys Corporation was a publicly traded American company that provided hospitals and other healthcare organizations with electronic medical record, computerized physician order entry, and other technology, as well as revenue cycle management software. Eclipsys was founded in 1995, and had its headquarters in Atlanta, Georgia.\n\nEclipsys was founded in 1995 by Harvey J. Wilson who remained with the company until 2002. In 1998, the company acquired Motorola's Emtek Healthcare Division, a provider of point-of-care clinical information software. In 2008, the company acquired physician practice management software company MediNotes. The company restructured in 2006, and Philip Pead became chief executive officer in 2009. In 2010, Eclipsys announced a strategic partnership with Microsoft, in which the companies will share technology and promote healthcare information technology interoperability. Eclipsys merged with Allscripts in August 2010.\n\n"}
{"id": "6913403", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6913403", "title": "Energy medicine", "text": "Energy medicine\n\nEnergy medicine, energy therapy, energy healing, psychic healing, spiritual medicine or spiritual healing are branches of alternative medicine based on a pseudo-scientific belief that healers can channel healing energy into a patient and effect positive results. This idea itself contains several methods: hands-on, hands-off, and distant (or absent) where the patient and healer are in different locations.\n\nMany schools of energy healing exist using many names, for example, \"biofield energy healing\", \"spiritual healing\", \"contact healing\", \"distant healing\", \"Qi Do\", \"therapeutic touch\", \"Reiki\" or \"Qigong.\"\n\n\"Spiritual healing\" occurs largely in non-denominational and ecumenical contexts. Practitioners do not see traditional religious faith as a prerequisite for effecting cures. \"Faith healing,\" by contrast, takes place within a traditional religious context.\n\nWhile early reviews of the scientific literature on energy healing were equivocal and recommended further research, more recent reviews have concluded that there is no evidence supporting clinical efficiency. The theoretical basis of healing has been criticised as implausible, research and reviews supportive of energy medicine have been faulted for containing methodological flaws and selection bias, and positive therapeutic results have been dismissed as resulting from known psychological mechanisms.\n\nEdzard Ernst, formerly Professor of Complementary and Alternative Medicine at the University of Exeter, has warned that \"healing continues to be promoted despite the absence of biological plausibility or convincing clinical evidence ... that these methods work therapeutically and plenty to demonstrate that they do not\". Some claims of those purveying \"energy medicine\" devices are known to be fraudulent and their marketing practices have drawn law-enforcement action in the US.\n\nThere is a history of association or exploitation of scientific inventions by individuals claiming that newly discovered science could help people to heal: In the 19th century, electricity and magnetism were in the \"borderlands\" of science and electrical quackery was rife. These concepts continue to inspire writers in the New Age movement. In the early 20th century health claims for radio-active materials put lives at risk, and recently quantum mechanics and grand unification theory have provided similar opportunities for commercial exploitation. Thousands of devices claiming to heal via putative or veritable energy are used worldwide. Many of them are illegal or dangerous and are marketed with false or unproven claims. Several of these devices have been banned.\nReliance on spiritual and energetic healings is associated with serious harm or death when medical treatment is delayed or foregone.\n\nThe term \"energy medicine\" has been in general use since the founding of the non-profit \"International Society for the Study of Subtle Energies and Energy Medicine\" in the 1980s. Guides are available for practitioners, and other books aim to provide a theoretical basis and evidence for the practice. Energy medicine often proposes that imbalances in the body's \"energy field\" result in illness, and that by re-balancing the body's energy-field health can be restored. Some modalities describe treatments as ridding the body of negative energies or blockages in 'mind'; illness or episodes of ill health after a treatment are referred to as a 'release' or letting go of a 'contraction' in the body-mind. Usually, a practitioner will then recommend further treatments for complete healing.\n\nThe US-based \"National Center for Complementary and Integrative Health\" (NCCIH) distinguishes between health care involving scientifically observable energy, which it calls \"Veritable Energy Medicine\", and health care methods that invoke physically undetectable or unverifiable \"energies\", which it calls \"Putative Energy Medicine\":\n\n\nPolarity therapy founded by Randolph Stone is a kind of energy medicine based on the belief that a person's health is subject to positive and negative charges in their electromagnetic field. It has been promoted as capable of curing a number of human ailments ranging from muscular tightness to cancer; however, according to the American Cancer Society \"available scientific evidence does not support claims that polarity therapy is effective in treating cancer or any other disease\".\n\nEnergy healing relies on a belief in the ability of a practitioner to channel healing energy into the person seeking help by different methods: hands-on, hands-off, and distant (or absent) where the patient and healer are in different locations. The \"Brockhampton Guide to Spiritual Healing\" describes contact healing in terms of \"transfer of ... healing energy\" and distant healing based on visualising the patient in perfect health. Practitioners say that this \"healing energy\" is sometimes perceived by the therapist as a feeling of heat.\n\nThere are various schools of energy healing, including \"biofield energy healing\", \"spiritual healing\", \"contact healing\", \"distant healing\", \"therapeutic touch\", \"Reiki,\" \"Qigong,\" and many others.\n\n\"Spiritual healing\" is largely non-denominational; traditional religious faith is not seen as a prerequisite for effecting a cure. \"Faith healing,\" by contrast, takes place within a religious context. The Buddha is often quoted by practitioners of energy medicine, but he did not practise \"hands on or off\" healing.\n\nEnergy healing techniques such as Therapeutic touch have found recognition in the nursing profession. In 2005–2006, the \"North American Nursing Diagnosis Association\" approved the diagnosis of \"energy field disturbance\" in patients, reflective of what has been variously called a \"postmodern\" or \"anti-scientific\" approach to nursing care. This approach has been strongly criticised.\n\nBelievers in these techniques have proposed quantum mystical invocations of non-locality to try to explain distant healing. They have also proposed that healers act as a channel passing on a kind of bioelectromagnetism which shares similarities to vitalistic pseudosciences such as orgone or qi. Drew Leder remarked in a paper in the \"Journal of Alternative and Complementary Medicine\" that such ideas were attempts to \"make sense of, interpret, and explore 'psi' and distant healing.\" and that \"such physics-based models are not presented as explanatory but rather as suggestive.\" Beverly Rubik, in an article in the same journal, justified her belief with references to biophysical systems theory, bioelectromagnetics, and chaos theory that provide her with a \"...scientific foundation for the biofield...\" Writing in the \"Journal of Bodywork and Movement Therapies\", James Oschman introduced the concept of healer-sourced electromagnetic fields which change in frequency. Oschman believes that \"healing energy\" derives from electromagnetic frequencies generated by a medical device, projected from the hands of the healer, or by electrons acting as antioxidants.\n\nPhysicists and sceptics roundly criticise these explanations as pseudophysics – a branch of pseudoscience which explains magical thinking by using irrelevant jargon from modern physics to exploit scientific illiteracy and to impress the unsophisticated.\nIndeed, even enthusiastic supporters of energy healing point out that \"there are only very tenuous theoretical foundations underlying [spiritual] healing.\"\n\nA systematic review of 23 trials of distant healing published in 2000 did not draw definitive conclusions because of the \"methodologic limitations of several studies\". In 2001 the lead author of that study, Edzard Ernst, published a primer on complementary therapies in cancer care in which he explained that though \"about half of these trials suggested that healing is effective\" he cautioned that the evidence was \"highly conflicting\" and that \"methodological shortcomings prevented firm conclusions.\" He concluded that \"as long as it is not used as an alternative to effective therapies, spiritual healing should be virtually devoid of risks.\" A 2001 randomised clinical trial by the same group found no statistically significant difference on chronic pain between distance healers and \"simulated healers\". A 2003 review by Ernst updating previous work concluded that more recent research had shifted the weight of evidence \"against the notion that distant healing is more than a placebo\" and that \"distant healing can be associated with adverse effects.\"\n\nA 2001 randomised clinical trial randomly assigned 120 patients with chronic pain to either healers or \"simulated healers\", but could not demonstrate efficacy for either distance or face-to-face healing. A systematic review in 2008 concluded that the evidence for a specific effect of spiritual healing on relieving neuropathic or neuralgic pain was not convincing. In their 2008 book \"Trick or Treatment\", Simon Singh and Edzard Ernst concluded that \"spiritual healing is biologically implausible and its effects rely on a placebo response. At best it may offer comfort; at worst it can result in charlatans taking money from patients with serious conditions who require urgent conventional medicine.\"\n\nAlternative medicine researcher Edzard Ernst has argued that although an initial review of pre-1999 distant healing trials had highlighted 57% of trials as showing positive results, later reviews of non-randomised and randomised clinical trials conducted between 2000 and 2002 led to the conclusion that \"the majority of the rigorous trials do not support the hypothesis that distant healing has specific therapeutic effects\". Ernst described the evidence base for healing practices to be \"increasingly negative\". Ernst also warned that many of the reviews were under suspicion for fabricated data, lack of transparency, and scientific misconduct. He concluded that \"[s]piritual healing continues to be promoted despite the absence of biological plausibility or convincing clinical evidence ... that these methods work therapeutically and plenty to demonstrate that they do not.\" A 2014 study of energy healing for colorectal cancer patients showed no improvement in quality of life, depressive symptoms, mood, or sleep quality.\n\nThere are several, primarily psychological, explanations for positive reports after energy therapy, including placebo effects, spontaneous remission, and cognitive dissonance. A 2009 review found that the \"small successes\" reported for two therapies collectively marketed as \"energy psychology\" (Emotional Freedom Techniques and Tapas Acupressure Technique) \"are potentially attributable to well-known cognitive and behavioral techniques that are included with the energy manipulation.\" The report concluded that \"[p]sychologists and researchers should be wary of using such techniques, and make efforts to inform the public about the ill effects of therapies that advertise miraculous claims.\"\n\nThere are primarily two explanations for anecdotes of cures or improvements, relieving any need to appeal to the supernatural. The first is \"post hoc ergo propter hoc\", meaning that a genuine improvement or spontaneous remission may have been experienced coincidental with but independent from anything the healer or patient did or said. These patients would have improved just as well even had they done nothing. The second is the placebo effect, through which a person may experience genuine pain relief and other symptomatic alleviation. In this case, the patient genuinely has been helped by the healer not through any mysterious or numinous function, but by the power of their own belief that they would be healed. In both cases the patient may experience a real reduction in symptoms, though in neither case has anything miraculous or inexplicable occurred. Both cases, are strictly limited to the body's natural abilities.\n\nPositive findings from research studies can also result from such psychological mechanisms, or as a result of experimenter bias, methodological flaws such as lack of blinding, or publication bias; positive reviews of the scientific literature may show selection bias, in that they omit key studies that do not agree with the author's position. All of these factors must be considered when evaluating claims.\n\nBioresonance therapy (including MORA therapy) is a pseudoscientific medical practice in which it is proposed that electromagnetic waves can be used to diagnose and treat human illness.\n\nBioresonance therapy was invented in (Germany) in 1977 by Franz Morell and his son-in-law, engineer Erich Rasche. Initially they marketed it as \"MORA-Therapie\", for MOrell and RAsche. Some of the machines contain an electronic circuit measuring skin-resistance, akin to the E-meter used by Scientology, which the bioresonance creators sought to improve; Franz Morell had links with Scientology.\n\nPractitioners claim to be able to detect a variety of diseases and addictions. Some practitioners also claim they can treat diseases using this therapy without drugs, by stimulating a change of \"bioresonance\" in the cells, and reversing the change caused by the disease. The devices would need to be able to isolate and pinpoint pathogens' responses from the mixture of responses the device receives via the electrodes. Transmitting these transformed signals over the same electrodes is claimed by practitioners to generate healing signals that have the curative effect.\n\nOne placebo-controlled study of the effects of bioresonance therapy showed that \"MORA bioresonance therapy can markedly improve non-organic gastro-intestinal complaints.\" This research study, however, was conducted with a relatively small sample size of 20 people and published by a journal that exclusively publishes \"alternative medicine\" procedures. The bioresonance diagnosis was complemented by the practitioner's dietary suggestions, making for an uncontrolled experiment with no analytical methods. The only measuring methods present were the subjective analysis of the practitioner pre and post diagnosis.\n\nLacking any scientific explanation of how bioresonance therapy might work, researchers have classified bioresonance therapy as pseudoscience.\nSome scientific studies did not show effects above that of the placebo effect.\n\nWebMD states: \"There is no reliable scientific evidence that bioresonance is an accurate indicator of medical conditions or disease or an effective treatment for any condition.\"\n\nProven cases of online fraud have occurred, with a practitioner making false claims that he had the ability to cure cancer, and that his clients did not need to follow the chemotherapy or surgery recommended by medical doctors, which can be life-saving. Ben Goldacre ridiculed the BBC when it reported as fact a clinic's claim that the treatment had the ability to stop 70% of clients smoking, a better result than any conventional therapy.\n\nIn the United States of America the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) classifies \"devices that use resistance measurements to diagnose and treat various diseases\" as Class III devices, which require FDA approval prior to marketing. The FDA has banned some of these devices from the US market, and has prosecuted many sellers of electrical devices for making false claims of health benefits.\n\nAccording to Quackwatch the therapy is completely nonsensical and the proposed mechanism of action impossible.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "37930691", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37930691", "title": "Estonian Association of Gerontology and Geriatrics", "text": "Estonian Association of Gerontology and Geriatrics\n\nThe Estonian Association of Gerontology and Geriatrics (EGGA) (Estonian: \"Eesti Gerontoloogia ja Geriaatria Assotsiatsioon\") is an association of Estonian professionals who work with the elderly, established in 1997.\n\nAs of 2005 the association had 154 members. These included doctors, nurses and paid or volunteer care givers, \nmanagers of institutions that care for the elderly and academics. \nIt undertakes professional training, development of geriatric care guidelines and standards, research and preparation of educational and informational material. \nThe Association contributed to a 2010 study undertaken by the OECD to examine improvements to public service delivery and performance through a single government approach.\n\nThe Association is a member of the International Association of Gerontology (IAG) and the European Union Geriatric Medicine Society (EUGMS). \nAs of 2004 the Association was a member of CARMA - Care for the Aged at Risk of Marginalization - a European social policy research project.\nEGGA is associated with Abuel, which conducts research on abuse of the elderly for use in policy formulation by government agencies in Europe.\nIt is also associated with the Academic Network of European Disability Experts.\n\nAs of 2012 the board had the following members:\n\nCitations\n\nSources\n"}
{"id": "20882464", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20882464", "title": "Franziska Rochat-Moser", "text": "Franziska Rochat-Moser\n\nFranziska Rochat-Moser (17 August 1966 – 7 March 2002) was a long-distance runner from Switzerland, who represented her native country at two consecutive Summer Olympics, starting in 1992. She won the 1997 New York City Marathon.\n\nMoser was married to Philippe Rochat, renowned chef and owner of a prominent French restaurant. She died in an avalanche while climbing in the Swiss Alps.\n"}
{"id": "5069414", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5069414", "title": "Genital herpes", "text": "Genital herpes\n\nGenital herpes is an infection by herpes simplex virus (HSV) of the genitals. Most people either have no or mild symptoms and thus do not know they are infected. When symptoms do occur, they typically include small blisters that break open to form painful ulcers. Flu-like symptoms, such as fever, aching, or swollen lymph nodes, may also occur. Onset is typically around 4 days after exposure with symptoms lasting up to 4 weeks. Once infected further outbreaks may occur but are generally milder.\nThe disease is typically spread by direct genital contact with the skin surface or secretions of someone who is infected. This may occur during sex, including anal and oral sex. Sores are not required for transmission to occur. The risk of spread between a couple is about 7.5% over a year. HSV is classified into two types, HSV-1 and HSV-2. While historically mostly cause by HSV-2, genital HSV-1 has become more common in the developed world. Diagnosis may occur by testing lesions using either PCR or viral culture or blood tests for specific antibodies.\nEfforts to prevent infection include not having sex, using condoms, and only having sex with someone who is not infected. Once infected, there is no cure. Antiviral medications may, however, prevent outbreaks or shorten outbreaks if they occur. The long term use of antivirals may also decrease the risk of further spread.\nIn 2015 about 846 million people (12% of the world population), had genital herpes. In the United States, more than one-in-six people have HSV-2. Women are more commonly infected than men. Rates of disease caused by HSV-2 have decreased in the United States between 1990 and 2010. Complications may rarely include aseptic meningitis, an increased risk of HIV/AIDS if exposed to HIV-positive individuals, and spread to the baby during childbirth resulting in neonatal herpes.\n\nIn males, the lesions occur on the glans penis, shaft of the penis or other parts of the genital region, on the inner thigh, buttocks, or anus. In females, lesions appear on or near the pubis, clitoris or other parts of the vulva, buttocks or anus.\n\nOther common symptoms include pain, itching, and burning. Less frequent, yet still common, symptoms include discharge from the penis or vagina, fever, headache, muscle pain (myalgia), swollen and enlarged lymph nodes and malaise. Women often experience additional symptoms that include painful urination (dysuria) and cervicitis. Herpetic proctitis (inflammation of the anus and rectum) is common for individuals participating in anal intercourse.\n\nAfter 2–3 weeks, existing lesions progress into ulcers and then crust and heal, although lesions on mucosal surfaces may never form crusts. In rare cases, involvement of the sacral region of the spinal cord can cause acute urinary retention and one-sided symptoms and signs of myeloradiculitis (a combination of myelitis and radiculitis): pain, sensory loss, abnormal sensations (paresthesia) and rash. Historically, this has been termed Elsberg syndrome, although this entity is not clearly defined. \n\nAfter a first episode of herpes genitalis caused by HSV-2, there will be at least one recurrence in approximately 80% of people, while the recurrence rate for herpes genitalis caused by HSV-1 is approximately 50%. Herpes genitalis caused by HSV-2 recurs on average four to six times per year, while that of HSV-1 infection occurs only about once per year.\n\nPeople with recurrent genital herpes may be treated with \"suppressive therapy\", which consists of daily antiviral treatment using acyclovir, valacyclovir or famciclovir. Suppressive therapy may be useful in those who have at least four recurrences per year but the quality of the evidence is poor. People with lower rates of recurrence will probably also have fewer recurrences with suppressive therapy. Suppressive therapy should be discontinued after a maximum of one year to reassess recurrence frequency.\n\nGenital herpes can be spread by viral shedding prior to and following the formation of ulcers. The risk of spread between a couple is about 7.5% over a year (for unprotected sex). The likelihood of transferring genital herpes from one person to another is decreased by male condom use by 50%, by female condom by 50%, and refraining from sex during an active outbreak. The longer a partner has had the infection, the lower the transmission rate. An infected person may further decrease transmission risks by maintaining a daily dose of antiviral medications. Infection by genital herpes occurs in about 1 in every 1,000 sexual acts.\n\nTesting peoples' blood, including those who are pregnant, who do not have symptoms for HSV is not recommended. This is due to concerns of greater harm than benefit, as there is a high false-positive rate and receiving a positive test result can cause other problems, such as relationship difficulties.\n\nOnce infected, there is no cure. Antiviral medications, such as acyclovir, valacyclovir, may prevent outbreaks or shorten outbreaks if they occur. The long term use of antivirals may also decrease the risk of further spread. The longer a person has the virus, the less outbreak they experience and the harder it will be to transmit to others, due to these specialty antigens and a strengthened immune system response.\n\nAcyclovir is an antiviral medication and reduces the pain and the number of lesions in the initial case of genital herpes. Furthermore, it decreases the frequency and severity of recurrent infections. It comes in capsules, tablets, suspension, injection, powder for injection, and ointment. The ointment is used topically and it decreases pain, reduces healing time, and limits the spread of the infection.\n\nValacyclovir is a prodrug that is converted to acyclovir once in the body. It helps relieve the pain and discomfort and speeds healing of sores. It only comes in caplets and its advantage is that it has a longer duration of action than acyclovir. An example usage is by mouth twice per day for ten days for primary lesion, and twice per day for three days for a recurrent episode.\n\nFamciclovir is another antiviral drug that belongs to the same class. Famciclovir is a prodrug that is converted to penciclovir in the body. The latter is the one active against the viruses. It has a longer duration of action than acyclovir and it only comes in tablets.\n\nAbout 16 percent of Americans between the ages of 14 and 49 are infected with genital herpes, making it one of the most common sexually transmitted diseases. More than 80% of those infected are unaware of their infection. Approximately, 776,000 people in the United States get new herpes infections every year.\n\nTests for herpes are not routinely included among STD screenings. Performers in the pornography industry are screened for HIV, chlamydia, and gonorrhea with an optional panel of tests for hepatitis B, hepatitis C and syphilis, but not herpes. Testing for herpes is controversial since the results are not always accurate or helpful. Most sex workers and performers will contract herpes at some point in their careers whether they use protection or not.\n\nEarly 20th century public health legislation in the United Kingdom required compulsory treatment for sexually transmitted diseases but did not include herpes because it was not serious enough. As late as 1975, nursing textbooks did not include herpes as it was considered no worse than a common cold. After the development of acyclovir in the 1970s, the drug company Burroughs Wellcome launched an extensive marketing campaign that publicized the illness, including creating victim's support groups.\n\nThere are efforts to develop a vaccine for active outbreaks of the virus–despite most cases being asymptomatic–but the results thus far have not been able to do so or eliminate transmission. \n"}
{"id": "32039982", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32039982", "title": "Kent State University College of Public Health", "text": "Kent State University College of Public Health\n\nThe Kent State University College of Public Health was established in 2009. It is one of only two colleges of public health in Ohio, and it is the first school in the state to offer a Bachelor of Science in Public Health . Its goal is to train students to meet the current and projected shortage of public health professionals across the nation.\n\nThe College of Public Health is built on the Academic Health Department model which fosters collaboration between schools and local public health agencies to combine academic scholarship and public health practice. To implement the model, the College partners with local health departments, community organizations, health care institutions and businesses to give students the opportunity to take part in real-world learning experiences.\n\nThe College of Public Health offers a variety of degree and certificate programs at both the undergraduate and graduate levels:\n\n\nKent State’s College of Public Health also offers a variety of graduate assistantships for students pursuing their Master’s and Doctoral degrees.\n\nAt the present time Kent State’s College of Public Health has 18 full-time faculty members who operate across five disciplines: epidemiology, biostatistics, environmental health sciences, social and behavioral sciences and health policy and management. They have an established record of grant-funded scholarship and research, and throughout their careers have accumulated a total of $29 million in externally funded research .\n\nFaculty members in the College of Public Health regularly engage in research that aims to provide solutions for societal problems such as preventing violence, responding to natural and manmade disasters, curbing substance abuse, and improving the delivery of healthcare.\n\nThe Public Health Student Alliance (P.H.S.A.) at Kent State operates as the central student association and coordinating organization for the College of Public Health. Membership is open to any student interested in Public Health, and the overall mission is to improve society’s quality of life. To become a member a student must fill out an application form and pay dues of $5.00/semester or $10/year.\n\nP.H.S.A sponsors the College’s Speaker Series , which brings in industry professionals, professors and researchers to talk about important issues within the public health arena.\n\nThe College of Public Health has its own advising department solely for students who are interested in pursuing a degree in public health. Students can schedule an individual advising appointment to ask questions, get additional information and receive assistance filling out forms.\n\nThe College of Public Health is seeking accreditation through the Council on Education for Public Health as a full school. . On October 26, 2012 the College was announced as an Associate Member in the Association of Schools of Public Health. The College is currently in its self-study period.\n"}
{"id": "23726489", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23726489", "title": "List of Permanent Observers of the Sovereign Military Order of Malta to the United Nations", "text": "List of Permanent Observers of the Sovereign Military Order of Malta to the United Nations\n\nThe Sovereign Military Order of Malta has had Permanent Observer status at the United Nations General Assembly in New York City since 1994. It has also had an observer present at the UN offices in Vienna since 2009. This is a list of individuals who have been the UN Permanent Observer for the Order.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4605217", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4605217", "title": "List of U.S. cities with most pedestrian commuters", "text": "List of U.S. cities with most pedestrian commuters\n\nThe following is a list of United States cities of 100,000+ inhabitants with the 50 highest rates of pedestrian commuting, according to data from the 2000 Census. The Census measured the percentage of commuters who walk to work, as opposed to taking public transit, driving an automobile, bicycle, boat, or some other means. College towns and cities with military bases often rank high on this list, as students and faculty of universities often live very close to their place of employment if on-campus or close to campus. Military employees are often housed at or very near their place of employment. \n\n1. Cambridge, Massachusetts 25.76%<br>\n2. Ann Arbor, Michigan 16.52%<br>\n3. Berkeley, California 15.99%<br>\n4. New Haven, Connecticut 14.0%<br>\n5. Columbia, South Carolina 13.78%<br>\n6. Provo, Utah 13.39%<br>\n7. Boston, Massachusetts 13.36%<br>\n8. Providence, Rhode Island 12.56%<br>\n9. Washington, D.C. 12.27%<br>\n10. Madison, Wisconsin 10.99%<br>\n11. New York City, New York 10.72%<br>\n12. Syracuse, New York 10.31%<br>\n13. Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania 10.02%<br>\n14. San Francisco, California 9.82%<br>\n15. Wichita Falls, Texas 9.29%<br>\n16. Philadelphia, Pennsylvania 9.22%<br>\n17. Jersey City, New Jersey 8.17%<br>\n18. Newark, New Jersey 8.03%<br>\n19. Seattle, Washington 7.72%<br>\n20. Allentown, Pennsylvania 7.55%<br>\n21. Baltimore, Maryland 7.28%<br>\n22. Worcester, Massachusetts 7.11%<br>\n23. Norfolk, Virginia 7.05%<br>\n24. Minneapolis, Minnesota 6.85%<br>\n25. Honolulu, Hawaii 6.8%<br>\n26. Erie, Pennsylvania 6.7%<br>\n27. Rochester, New York 6.65%<br>\n28. Eugene, Oregon 6.43%<br>\n29. Paterson, New Jersey 5.97%<br>\n30. Hartford, Connecticut 5.89%<br>\n31. Chicago, Illinois 5.8%<br>\n32. Arlington, Virginia 5.77%<br>\n33. Cincinnati, Ohio 5.61%<br>\n34. St. Paul, Minnesota 5.58%<br>\n35. Pasadena, California 5.51%<br>\n36. Portland, Oregon 5.47%<br>\n37. Buffalo, New York 5.43%<br>\n38. Dayton, Ohio 5.37%<br>\n39. New Orleans, Louisiana 5.35%<br>\n40. Augusta, Georgia 5.13%<br>\n41. Salt Lake City, Utah 5.07%<br>\n42. Irvine, California 5.06%<br>\n43. Elizabeth, New Jersey 5.0%<br>\n44. Paradise, Nevada 4.8%<br>\n45. Milwaukee, Wisconsin 4.79%<br>\n46. Columbus, Georgia 4.78%<br>\n47. Lowell, Massachusetts 4.63%<br>\n48. East Los Angeles, California 4.61%<br>\n49. Richmond, Virginia 4.54%<br>\n50. Denver, Colorado 4.51%\n\n\n"}
{"id": "430906", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=430906", "title": "List of prison deaths", "text": "List of prison deaths\n\nThis is a list of notable people who have died in prison, whether actually in prison or in hospital while still serving a prison sentence. In alphabetical order, this list does not include inmates who were executed as punishment for their crimes. Most of them died from suicide.\n\n"}
{"id": "25437641", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25437641", "title": "Matsuoka Hoyoen Sanatorium", "text": "Matsuoka Hoyoen Sanatorium\n\nThe or National Sanatorium Matsuoka Hoyoen is a sanatorium for leprosy and ex-leprosy patients situated in Aomori, Aomori, Japan that opened in 1909.\n\nThe Japanese Government promulgated the first leprosy prevention law on March 19, 1907, which took effect on April 1, 1909. Japan was divided into 5 areas. The second area included Hokkaido, Miyagi Prefecture, Iwate Prefecture, Aomori Prefecture, Fukushima Prefecture, Yamagata Prefecture and Akita Prefecture. In this area, Aomori was selected for the sanatorium.\n\nForeigners who came into Japan after the Meiji Restoration(1868) were surprised to find leprosy patients in public areas in Japan. The Japanese Government was worried about the many leprosy patients among those who were examined for the draft at age 20.\n\n\nThe following table shows the number of patients held at the Sanatorium in selected years.\n\n"}
{"id": "175440", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=175440", "title": "Medical cannabis", "text": "Medical cannabis\n\nMedical cannabis, or medical marijuana, is cannabis and cannabinoids that are recommended by doctors for their patients. The use of cannabis as medicine has not been rigorously tested due to production restrictions and other governmental regulations. Limited evidence suggests that cannabis can reduce nausea and vomiting during chemotherapy, improve appetite in people with HIV/AIDS, and reduce chronic pain and muscle spasms.\nShort-term use increases the risk of minor and major adverse effects. Common side effects include dizziness, feeling tired, vomiting, and hallucinations. Long-term effects of cannabis are not clear. Concerns include memory and cognition problems, risk of addiction, schizophrenia in young people, and the risk of children taking it by accident.\n\nThe \"Cannabis\" plant has a history of medicinal use dating back thousands of years in many cultures. A number of medical organizations have requested removal of cannabis from the list of Schedule I controlled substances, followed by regulatory and scientific review. Others oppose its legalization, such as the American Academy of Pediatrics.\n\nMedical cannabis can be administered through a variety of methods, including capsules, lozenges, tinctures, dermal patches, oral or dermal sprays, cannabis edibles, and vaporizing or smoking dried buds. Synthetic cannabinoids are available for prescription use in some countries, such as dronabinol and nabilone. Countries that allow the medical use of whole-plant cannabis include Australia, Canada, Chile, Colombia, Germany, Greece, Israel, Italy, the Netherlands, Peru, Poland, Portugal, and Uruguay. In the United States, 33 states and the District of Columbia have legalized cannabis for medical purposes, beginning with California in 1996. Although cannabis remains prohibited for any use at the federal level, the Rohrabacher–Farr amendment was enacted in December 2014, limiting the ability of federal law to be enforced in states where medical cannabis has been legalized.\n\nMany different cannabis strains are collectively called \"medical cannabis\". Since many varieties of the cannabis plant and plant derivatives all share the same name, the term medical cannabis is ambiguous and can be misunderstood. A Cannabis plant includes more than 400 different chemicals, of which about 70 are cannabinoids. In comparison, typical government-approved medications contain only one or two chemicals. The number of active chemicals in cannabis is one reason why treatment with cannabis is difficult to classify and study.\n\nA 2014 review stated that the variations in ratio of CBD-to-THC in botanical and pharmaceutical preparations determines the therapeutic vs psychoactive effects (CBD attenuates THC's psychoactive effects) of cannabis products.\n\nMedical cannabis has several potential beneficial effects. Evidence is moderate that it helps in chronic pain and muscle spasms. Low quality evidence suggests its use for reducing nausea during chemotherapy, improving appetite in HIV/AIDS, improving sleep, and improving tics in Tourette syndrome. When usual treatments are ineffective, cannabinoids have also been recommended for anorexia, arthritis, migraine, and glaucoma.\n\nIt is recommended that cannabis use be stopped in pregnancy.\n\nMedical cannabis is somewhat effective in chemotherapy-induced nausea and vomiting (CINV) and may be a reasonable option in those who do not improve following preferential treatment. Comparative studies have found cannabinoids to be more effective than some conventional antiemetics such as prochlorperazine, promethazine, and metoclopramide in controlling CINV, but these are used less frequently because of side effects including dizziness, dysphoria, and hallucinations. Long-term cannabis use may cause nausea and vomiting, a condition known as cannabinoid hyperemesis syndrome.\n\nA 2016 Cochrane review said that cannabinoids were \"probably effective\" in treating chemotherapy-induced nausea in children, but with a high side-effect profile (mainly drowsiness, dizziness, altered moods, and increased appetite). Less common side effects were \"ocular problems, orthostatic hypotension, muscle twitching, pruritis, vagueness, hallucinations, lightheadedness and dry mouth\".\n\nEvidence is lacking for both efficacy and safety of cannabis and cannabinoids in treating patients with HIV/AIDS or for anorexia associated with AIDS. As of 2013, current studies suffer from effects of bias, small sample size, and lack of long-term data.\n\nA 2017 review found only limited evidence for the effectiveness of cannabis in relieving chronic pain in several conditions. Another review found tentative evidence for use of cannabis in treating peripheral neuropathy, but little evidence of benefit for other types of long term pain.\n\nWhen cannabis is inhaled to relieve pain, blood levels of cannabinoids rise faster than when oral products are used, peaking within three minutes and attaining an analgesic effect in seven minutes. A 2014 review found limited and weak evidence that smoked cannabis was effective for chronic non-cancer pain. A 2015 meta-analysis found that inhaled medical cannabis was effective in reducing neuropathic pain in the short term for one in five to six patients. Another 2015 review found limited evidence that medical cannabis was effective for neuropathic pain when combined with traditional analgesics.\n\nA 2011 review considered cannabis to be generally safe, and it appears safer than opioids in palliative care.\n\nCannabis' efficacy is not clear in treating neurological problems, including multiple sclerosis (MS), epilepsy, and movement problems. The combination of Δ9-tetrahydrocannabinol (THC) and cannabidiol (CBD) extracts give subjective relief of spasticity, though objective post-treatment assessments do not reveal significant changes. Evidence also suggests that oral cannabis extract is effective for reducing patient-centered measures of spasticity. A trial of cannabis is deemed to be a reasonable option if other treatments have not been effective. Its use for MS is approved in ten countries. A 2012 review found no problems with tolerance, abuse, or addiction.\n\nThere is tentative evidence that medical cannabis is effective at reducing posttraumatic stress disorder symptoms, but, , there is insufficient evidence to confirm its effectiveness for this condition.\n\nThere is insufficient data to draw strong conclusions about the safety of medical cannabis. Typically, adverse effects of medical cannabis use are not serious; they include tiredness, dizziness, increased appetite, and cardiovascular and psychoactive effects. Tolerance to these effects develops over a period of days or weeks. The amount of cannabis normally used for medicinal purposes is not believed to cause any permanent cognitive impairment in adults, though long-term treatment in adolescents should be weighed carefully as they are more susceptible to these impairments. Withdrawal symptoms are rarely a problem with controlled medical administration of cannabinoids. The ability to drive vehicles or to operate machinery may be impaired until a tolerance is developed. Although supporters of medical cannabis say that it is safe, further research is required to assess the long-term safety of its use.\n\nTetrahydrocannabinol (THC), the principal psychoactive constituent of the cannabis plant, has low toxicity while the LD50 (dose of THC needed to kill 50% of tested rodents) is high. Acute effects may include anxiety and panic, impaired attention, and memory (while intoxicated), an increased risk of psychotic symptoms, and possibly increased risk of accidents if a person drives a motor vehicle while intoxicated. Psychotic episodes are well-documented and typically resolve within minutes or hours. There have been few reports of symptoms lasting longer.\n\nAccording to the United States Department of Health and Human Services, there were 455,000 emergency room visits associated with cannabis use in 2011. These statistics include visits in which the patient was treated for a condition induced by or related to recent cannabis use. The drug use must be \"implicated\" in the emergency department visit, but does not need to be the direct cause of the visit. Most of the illicit drug emergency room visits involved multiple drugs. In 129,000 cases, cannabis was the only implicated drug.\n\nEffects of chronic use may include bronchitis, a cannabis dependence syndrome, and subtle impairments of attention and memory. These deficits persist while chronically intoxicated. Compared to non-smokers, people who smoked cannabis regularly in adolescence exhibit reduced connectivity in specific brain regions associated with memory, learning, alertness, and executive function. One study suggested that sustained heavy, daily, adolescent onset cannabis use over decades is associated with a decline in IQ by age 38, with no effects found in those who initiated cannabis use later, or in those who ceased use earlier in adulthood.\n\nThere has been a limited amount of studies that have looked at the effects of smoking cannabis on the respiratory system. Chronic heavy marijuana smoking is associated with coughing, production of sputum, wheezing, coughing, and other symptoms of chronic bronchitis. Regular cannabis use has not been shown to cause significant abnormalities in lung function.\n\nCannabis smoke contains thousands of organic and inorganic chemical compounds. This tar is chemically similar to that found in tobacco smoke, and over fifty known carcinogens have been identified in cannabis smoke, including nitrosamines, reactive aldehydes, and polycylic hydrocarbons, including benz[a]pyrene. Light and moderate use of cannabis is not believed to increase risk of lung or upper airway cancer. Evidence for causing these cancers is mixed concerning heavy, long-term use. In general there are far lower risks of pulmonary complications for regular cannabis smokers when compared with those of tobacco. Combustion products are not present when using a vaporizer, consuming THC in pill form, or consuming cannabis edibles.\n\nThere is serious suspicion among cardiologists, spurring research but falling short of definitive proof, that cannabis use has the potential to contribute to cardiovascular disease. Cannabis is believed to be an aggravating factor in rare cases of arteritis, a serious condition that in some cases leads to amputation. Because 97% of case-reports also smoked tobacco, a formal association with cannabis could not be made. If cannabis arteritis turns out to be a distinct clinical entity, it might be the consequence of vasoconstrictor activity observed from delta-8-THC and delta-9-THC. Other serious cardiovascular events including myocardial infarction, stroke, sudden cardiac death, and cardiomyopathy have been reported to be temporally associated with cannabis use. Research in these events is complicated because cannabis is often used in conjunction with tobacco, and drugs such as alcohol and cocaine. These putative effects can be taken in context of a wide range of cardiovascular phenomena regulated by the endocannabinoid system and an overall role of cannabis in causing decreased peripheral resistance and increased cardiac output, which potentially could pose a threat to those with cardiovascular disease.\n\nCannabis usually causes no tolerance or withdrawal symptoms except in heavy users. In a survey of heavy users 42.4% experienced withdrawal symptoms when they tried to quit marijuana such as craving, irritability, boredom, anxiety and sleep disturbances. About 9% of those who experiment with marijuana eventually become dependent. The rate goes up to one in six among those who begin use as adolescents, and one-quarter to one-half of those who use it daily according to a NIDA review. A 2013 review estimates daily use is associated with a 10-20% rate of dependence. The highest risk of cannabis dependence is found in those with a history of poor academic achievement, deviant behavior in childhood and adolescence, rebelliousness, poor parental relationships, or a parental history of drug and alcohol problems.\n\nA 2013 literature review found that exposure to marijuana had biologically-based physical, mental, behavioral and social health consequences and was \"associated with diseases of the liver (particularly with co-existing hepatitis C), lungs, heart, and vasculature\".\n\nA 2011 systematic review evaluated published studies of the acute and long-term cognitive effects of cannabis. THC intoxication is well established to impair cognitive functioning on an acute basis, including effects on the ability to plan, organize, solve problems, make decisions, and control impulses. The extent of this impact may be greater in novice users, and paradoxically, those habituated to high-level ingestion may have reduced cognition during withdrawal. Studies of long-term effects on cognition have provided conflicting results, with some studies finding no difference between long-term abstainers and never-users and others finding long-term deficits. The discrepancies between studies may reflect greater long-term effects among heavier users relative to occasional users, and greater duration of effect among those with heavy use as adolescents compared to later in life. A second systematic review focused on neuroimaging studies found little evidence supporting an effect of cannabis use on brain structure and function. A 2003 meta-analysis concluded that any long-term cognitive effects were relatively modest in magnitude and limited to certain aspects of learning and memory.\n\nExposure to THC can cause acute transient psychotic symptoms in healthy individuals and people with schizophrenia.\n\nA 2007 meta analysis concluded that cannabis use reduced the average age of onset of psychosis by 2.7 years relative to non-cannabis use. A 2005 meta analysis concluded that adolescent use of cannabis increases the risk of psychosis, and that the risk is dose-related. A 2004 literature review on the subject concluded that cannabis use is associated with a two-fold increase in the risk of psychosis, but that cannabis use is \"neither necessary nor sufficient\" to cause psychosis. A French review from 2009 came to a conclusion that cannabis use, particularly that before age 15, was a factor in the development of schizophrenic disorders.\n\nA 2008 National Institutes of Health study of 19 chronic heavy marijuana users with cardiac and cerebral abnormalities (averaging 28 g to 272 g (1 to 9+ oz) weekly) and 24 controls found elevated levels of apolipoprotein C-III (apoC-III) in the chronic smokers. An increase in apoC-III levels induces the development of hypertriglyceridemia.\n\nThe genus \"Cannabis\" contains two species which produce useful amounts of psychoactive cannabinoids: \"Cannabis indica\" and \"Cannabis sativa\", which are listed as Schedule I medicinal plants in the US; a third species, \"Cannabis ruderalis\", has few psychogenic properties. Cannabis contains more than 460 compounds; at least 80 of these are cannabinoids – chemical compounds that interact with cannabinoid receptors in the brain. As of 2012, more than 20 cannabinoids were being studied by the U.S. FDA.\n\nThe most psychoactive cannabinoid found in the cannabis plant is tetrahydrocannabinol (or delta-9-tetrahydrocannabinol, commonly known as THC). Other cannabinoids include delta-8-tetrahydrocannabinol, cannabidiol (CBD), cannabinol (CBN), cannabicyclol (CBL), cannabichromene (CBC) and cannabigerol (CBG); they have less psychotropic effects than THC, but may play a role in the overall effect of cannabis. The most studied are THC, CBD and CBN.\n\nCB1 and CB2 are the primary cannabinoid receptors responsible for several of the effects of cannabinoids, although other receptors may play a role as well. Both belong to a group of receptors called G protein-coupled receptors (GPCRs). CB1 receptors are found in very high levels in the brain and are thought to be responsible for psychoactive effects. CB2 receptors are found peripherally throughout the body and are thought to modulate pain and inflammation.\n\nCannabinoid absorption is dependent on its route of administration.\n\nInhaled and vaporized THC have similar absorption profiles to smoked THC, with a bioavailability ranging from 10 to 35%. Oral administration has the lowest bioavailability of approximately 6%, variable absorption depending on the vehicle used, and the longest time to peak plasma levels (2 to 6 hours) compared to smoked or vaporized THC.\n\nSimilar to THC, CBD has poor oral bioavailability, approximately 6%. The low bioavailability is largely attributed to significant first-pass metabolism in the liver and erratic absorption from the gastrointestinal tract. However, oral administration of CBD has a faster time to peak concentrations (2 hours) than THC.\n\nDue to the poor bioavailability of oral preparations, alternative routes of administration have been studied, including sublingual and rectal. These alternative formulations maximize bioavailability and reduce first-pass metabolism. Sublingual administration in rabbits yielded bioavailability of 16% and time to peak concentration of 4 hours. Rectal administration in monkeys doubled bioavailability to 13.5% and achieved peak blood concentrations within 1 to 8 hours after administration.\n\nLike cannabinoid absorption, distribution is also dependent on route of administration. Smoking and inhalation of vaporized cannabis have better absorption than do other routes of administration, and therefore also have more predictable distribution. THC is highly protein bound once absorbed, with only 3% found unbound in the plasma. It distributes rapidly to highly vascularized organs such as the heart, lungs, liver, spleen, and kidneys, as well as to various glands. Low levels can be detected in the brain, testes, and unborn fetuses, all of which are protected from systemic circulation via barriers. THC further distributes into fatty tissues a few days after administration due to its high lipophilicity, and is found deposited in the spleen and fat after redistribution.\n\nDelta-9-THC is the primary molecule responsible for the effects of cannabis. Delta-9-THC is metabolized in the liver and turns into 11-OH-THC. 11-OH-THC is the first metabolic product in this pathway. Both Delta-9-THC and 11-OH-THC are psychoactive. The metabolism of THC into 11-OH-THC plays a part in the heightened psychoactive effects of edible cannabis.\n\nNext, 11-OH-THC is metabolized in the liver into 11-COOH-THC, which is the second metabolic product of THC. 11-COOH-THC is not psychoactive.\n\nIngestion of edible cannabis products lead to a slower onset of effect than the inhalation of it because the THC travels to the liver first through the blood before it travels to the rest of the body. Inhaled cannabis can result in THC going directly to the brain, where it then travels from the brain back to the liver in recirculation for metabolism. Eventually, both routes of metabolism result in the metabolism of psychoactive THC to inactive 11-COOH-THC.\n\nDue to the large propensity of THC and CBD being hepatically metabolized, a majority of their metabolites are excreted via feces than in the urine.\n\nAfter delta-9-THC is hydroxylated into 11-OH-THC via CYP2C9, CYP2C19, and CYP3A4, it undergoes phase II metabolism into more than 30 metabolites. A majority of these metabolites are products of glucuronidation. Approximately 65% is excreted in feces and 25% in the urine, while the remaining 10% is excreted by other means. The terminal half-life is approximately 25–36 hours.\n\nCBD is hydroxylated by P450 liver enzymes into 7-OH-CBD. Its metabolites are products of primarily CYP2C19 and CYP3A4 activity, with potential activity of CYP1A1, CYP1A2, CYP2C9, and CYP2D6. Similar to delta-9-THC, a majority of CBD is excreted in feces and some in the urine. The terminal half-life is approximately 18–32 hours.\n\nSmoking has been the means of administration of cannabis for many users, but it is not suitable for the use of cannabis as a medicine. It was the most common method of medical cannabis consumption in the US . It is difficult to predict the pharmacological response to cannabis because concentration of cannabinoids varies widely, as there are different ways of preparing it for consumption (smoked, applied as oils, eaten, infused into other foods, or drunk) and a lack of production controls. The potential for adverse effects from smoke inhalation makes smoking a less viable option than oral preparations. Cannabis vaporizers have gained popularity because of the perception among users that fewer harmful chemicals are ingested when components are inhaled via aerosol rather than smoke. Cannabinoid medicines are available in pill form (dronabinol and nabilone) and liquid extracts formulated into an oromucosal spray (nabiximols). Oral preparations are \"problematic due to the uptake of cannabinoids into fatty tissue, from which they are released slowly, and the significant first-pass liver metabolism, which breaks down Δ9THC and contributes further to the variability of plasma concentrations\".\n\nThe US Food and Drug Administration (FDA) has not approved smoked cannabis for any condition or disease, as it deems that evidence is lacking concerning safety and efficacy. The FDA issued a 2006 advisory against \"smoked\" medical cannabis stating: \"marijuana has a high potential for abuse, has no currently accepted medical use in treatment in the United States, and has a lack of accepted safety for use under medical supervision.\"\n\nCannabis, called \"má\" 麻 (meaning \"hemp; cannabis; numbness\") or \"dàmá\" (with \"big; great\") in Chinese, was used in Taiwan for fiber starting about 10,000 years ago. The botanist Hui-lin Li wrote that in China, \"The use of Cannabis in medicine was probably a very early development. Since ancient humans used hemp seed as food, it was quite natural for them to also discover the medicinal properties of the plant.\" Emperor Shen-Nung, who was also a pharmacologist, wrote a book on treatment methods in 2737 BCE that included the medical benefits of cannabis. He recommended the substance for many ailments, including constipation, gout, rheumatism, and absent-mindedness. Cannabis is one of the 50 \"fundamental\" herbs in traditional Chinese medicine.\n\nThe Ebers Papyrus (c. 1550 BCE) from Ancient Egypt describes medical cannabis. The ancient Egyptians used hemp (cannabis) in suppositories for relieving the pain of hemorrhoids.\n\nSurviving texts from ancient India confirm that cannabis' psychoactive properties were recognized, and doctors used it for treating a variety of illnesses and ailments, including insomnia, headaches, gastrointestinal disorders, and pain, including during childbirth.\n\nThe Ancient Greeks used cannabis to dress wounds and sores on their horses, and in humans, dried leaves of cannabis were used to treat nose bleeds, and cannabis seeds were used to expel tapeworms.\n\nIn the medieval Islamic world, Arabic physicians made use of the diuretic, antiemetic, antiepileptic, anti-inflammatory, analgesic and antipyretic properties of \"Cannabis sativa\", and used it extensively as medication from the 8th to 18th centuries.\n\nCannabis seeds may have been used for food, rituals or religious practices in ancient Europe and China. Harvesting the plant led to the spread of cannabis throughout Eurasia about 10,000 to 5,000 years ago, with further distribution to the Middle East and Africa about 2,000 to 500 years ago. A landrace strain of cannabis developed over centuries. They are cultivars of the plant that originated in one specific region.\n\nWidely cultivated strains of cannabis, such as \"Afghani\" or \"Hindu Kush\", are indigenous to the Pakistan and Afghanistan regions, while \"Durban Poison\" is native to Africa. There are approximately 16 landrace strains of cannabis identified from Pakistan, Jamaica, Africa, Mexico, Central America and Asia.\n\nAn Irish physician, William Brooke O'Shaughnessy, is credited with introducing cannabis to Western medicine. O'Shaughnessy discovered cannabis in the 1830s while living abroad in India, where he conducted numerous experiments investigating its medical utility. Noting in particular its analgesic and anticonvulsant effects, O'Shaughnessy returned to England with a supply of cannabis in 1842, after which its use spread through Europe and the United States. Cannabis was entered into the United States Pharmacopeia in 1850.\n\nThe use of cannabis in medicine began to decline by the end of the 19th century, due to difficulty in controlling dosages and the rise in popularity of synthetic and opium-derived drugs. Also, the advent of the hypodermic syringe allowed these drugs to be injected for immediate effect, in contrast to cannabis which is not water-soluble and therefore cannot be injected.\n\nIn the United States, the medical use of cannabis further declined with the passage of the Marihuana Tax Act of 1937, which imposed new regulations and fees on physicians prescribing cannabis. Cannabis was removed from the U.S. Pharmacopeia in 1941, and officially banned for any use with the passage of the Controlled Substances Act of 1970.\n\nCannabis began to attract renewed interest as medicine in the 1970s and 1980s, in particular due to its use by cancer and AIDS patients who reported relief from the effects of chemotherapy and wasting syndrome. In 1996, California became the first U.S. state to legalize medical cannabis in defiance of federal law. In 2001, Canada became the first country to adopt a system regulating the medical use of cannabis.\n\nCountries that have legalized the medical use of cannabis include Australia, Canada, Chile, Colombia, Croatia, Cyprus, Czech Republic, Finland, Germany, Greece, Israel, Italy, Jamaica, Luxembourg, Macedonia, Malta, the Netherlands, Peru, Poland, Portugal, the United Kingdom, and Uruguay. Other countries have more restrictive laws allowing for the use of specific cannabinoids only, such as Brazil and France which have approved the use of Sativex. Countries with the most relaxed laws include Canada, Uruguay, the Netherlands, and Spain, where cannabis can be obtained without need for a prescription. In Mexico, THC content of medical cannabis is limited to one percent. The same limit applies in Switzerland, but no prescription is required to purchase. In the United States, the legality of medical cannabis varies by state.\n\nCannabis is in Schedule IV of the United Nations' Single Convention on Narcotic Drugs, making it subject to special restrictions. Article 2 provides for the following, in reference to Schedule IV drugs:\n\nThe convention thus allows countries to outlaw cannabis for all non-research purposes but lets nations choose to allow use for medical and scientific purposes if they believe total prohibition is not the most appropriate means of protecting health and welfare. The convention requires that states that permit the production or use of medical cannabis must operate a licensing system for all cultivators, manufacturers, and distributors and ensure that the total cannabis market of the state shall not exceed that required \"for medical and scientific purposes.\"\n\nIn the United States, the medical use of cannabis is legal in 33 states, plus the territories of Guam, Puerto Rico, and the Northern Mariana Islands, and the District of Columbia, as of November 2018. An additional 14 states have laws in effect to allow the use of CBD products. Cannabis remains illegal at the federal level by way of the Controlled Substances Act, under which cannabis is classified as a Schedule I drug with a high potential for abuse and no accepted medical use. In December 2014, however, the Rohrabacher–Farr amendment was signed into law, prohibiting the Justice Department from prosecuting individuals acting in accordance with state medical cannabis laws.\n\nThe method of obtaining medical cannabis varies by region and by legislation. In the US, most consumers grow their own or buy it from cannabis dispensaries in states where it is legal. Marijuana vending machines for selling or dispensing cannabis are in use in the United States and are planned to be used in Canada. In 2014, the startup Meadow began offering on-demand delivery of medical marijuana in the San Francisco Bay Area, through their mobile app.\n\nIn the United States, health insurance companies may not pay for a medical marijuana prescription as the Food and Drug Administration must approve any substance for medicinal purposes. Before this can happen, the FDA must first permit the study of the medical benefits and drawbacks of the substance, which it has not done since it was placed on Schedule I of the Controlled Substances Act in 1970. Therefore, all expenses incurred fulfilling a medical marijuana prescription will possibly be incurred as out-of-pocket. However, the New Mexico Court of Appeals has ruled that workers' compensation insurance must pay for prescribed marijuana as part of the state's Medical Cannabis Program.\n\nMedical organizations that have issued statements in support of allowing access to medical cannabis include the American Nurses Association, American Public Health Association, American Medical Student Association, National Multiple Sclerosis Society, Epilepsy Foundation, and Leukemia & Lymphoma Society.\n\nOrganizations that have issued statements in opposition to the legalization of medical cannabis include the American Academy of Pediatrics, American Psychiatric Association, and American Society of Addiction Medicine. However, the AAP also supports rescheduling for the purpose of facilitating research.\n\nThe American Medical Association and American College of Physicians do not take a position on the legalization of medical cannabis, but have called for the Schedule I classification of cannabis to be reviewed. The American Academy of Family Physicians similarly does not take a position, but does support rescheduling in order to facilitate research. The American Cancer Society and American Psychological Association have noted the obstacles that exist for conducting research on cannabis, and have called on the federal government to better enable scientific study of the drug.\n\nThe authors of a report on a 2011 survey of medical cannabis users say that critics have suggested that some users \"game the system\" to obtain medical cannabis ostensibly for treatment of a condition, but then use it for nonmedical purposes – though the truth of this claim is hard to measure. The report authors suggested rather that medical cannabis users occupied a \"continuum\" between medical and nonmedical use.\n\nIn the US, the FDA has approved two oral cannabinoids for use as medicine: dronabinol and nabilone. Dronabinol, synthetic THC, is listed as Schedule II. Nabilone, a synthetic cannabinoid, is also Schedule II, indicating high potential for side effects and addiction. Both received approval for sale in the US in 1985, under the brand names Marinol and Cesamet. Nabiximols, an oromucosal spray derived from two strains of \"Cannabis sativa\" and containing THC and CBD, is not approved in the United States, but is approved in several European countries, Canada, and New Zealand as of 2013. As of 2018, medical marijuana in Canada is being legally distributed to registered patients in bud, drops and capsule forms by such companies as Canopy Growth Corp. and Aurora Cannabis.\n\nAs an antiemetic, these medications are usually used when conventional treatment for nausea and vomiting associated with cancer chemotherapy fail to work.\n\nNabiximols is used for treatment of spasticity associated with MS when other therapies have not worked, and when an initial trial demonstrates \"meaningful improvement\". Trials for FDA approval in the US are underway. It is also approved in several European countries for overactive bladder and vomiting. When sold under the trade name Sativex as a mouth spray, the prescribed daily dose in Sweden delivers a maximum of 32.4 mg of THC and 30 mg of CBD; mild to moderate dizziness is common during the first few weeks.\n\nRelative to inhaled consumption, peak concentration of oral THC is delayed, and it may be difficult to determine optimal dosage because of variability in patient absorption.\n\nIn 1964, Albert Lockhart and Manley West began studying the health effects of traditional cannabis use in Jamaican communities. They developed, and in 1987 gained permission to market, the pharmaceutical \"Canasol\", one of the first cannabis extracts.\n\nMedical cannabis research includes any medical research on using cannabis as a treatment for any medical condition. For reasons including increased popular support of cannabis use, a trend of cannabis legalization, and the perception of medical usefulness, more scientists are doing medical cannabis research. Medical cannabis is unusually broad as a treatment for many conditions, each of which has its own state of research. Similarly, various countries conduct and respond to medical cannabis research in different ways.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "23865775", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23865775", "title": "NHS Constitution for England", "text": "NHS Constitution for England\n\nThe NHS Constitution for England is a document that sets out the objectives of the National Health Service, the rights and responsibilities of the various parties involved in health care, (patients, staff, trust boards) and the guiding principles which govern the service. First published on 21 January 2009 it was one of a number of recommendations in Lord Darzi’s report ‘High Quality Care for All’ as part of a ten-year plan to provide the highest quality of care and service for patients in England. Previously these rights and responsibilities had evolved in common law or through English or EU law, or were policy pledges by the NHS and UK government have been written into the document. It can be seen as a development of the ideas that began with the introduction of the Patient's Charter in 1991.\n\nUnlike a real constitution, the document is not itself legally enforceable, though it purports to set out the rights that patients and staff. It is fairly brief, written in plain terms and is simple to understand. Accompanying is a handbook which gives more information to patients and staff about the document, and also provides detail on the legislation that underpins the rights. A statement of NHS accountability also gives a clear account of the NHS system of accountability, transparency and responsibility.\n\nIn summary, seven key principles guide the NHS in all that it does:\n\n1.The NHS provides a comprehensive service, available to all irrespective of age, gender, disability, race, sexual orientation, religion, belief, gender reassignment, pregnancy and maternity or marital or civil partnership status. The service is designed to improve, prevent, diagnose and treat both physical and mental health problems with equal regard. . It has a duty to each and every individual that it serves and must respect their human rights. At the same time, it has a wider social duty to promote equality through the services it provides, and to pay particular attention to groups or sections of society where improvements in health and life expectancy are not keeping pace with the rest of the population.\n\n2.Access to NHS services is based on clinical need, not an individual’s ability to pay (except in exceptional circumstances sanctioned by Parliament).\n\n3.The NHS aspires to the highest standards of excellence and professionalism to provide high quality care that is safe, effective and focused on the patient experience; in the people it employs, and in the support, education, training and development that they receive; in the leadership and management of its organizations; and through its commitment to innovation and to the promotion, conduct and use of research to improve the current and future health and care of the population. Respect, dignity, compassion and care should be at the core of how patients and staff are treated, not only because that is the right thing to do, but because patient safety, experience and outcomes are all improved when staff are valued, empowered and supported.\n\n4.The patient will be at the heart of everything the NHS does. It should support individuals to promote and manage their own health. NHS services must reflect, and should be coordinated around and tailored to, the needs and preferences of patients, their families and their carers. As part of this, the NHS will ensure that in line with the Armed Forces Covenant, those in the armed forces, reservists, their families and veterans are not disadvantaged in accessing health services in the area they reside. Patients, with their families and carers, where appropriate, will be involved in and consulted on all decisions about their care and treatment. The NHS will actively encourage feedback from the public, patients and staff, welcome it and use it to improve its services.\n\n5.The NHS works across organisational boundaries and in partnership with other organisations in the interest of patients, local communities and the wider population. The NHS is an integrated system of organisations and services bound together by the principles and values reflected in the document. The NHS is committed to working jointly with other local authority services, other public sector organisations, and a wide range of private and voluntary sector organisations to provide and deliver improvements in health and wellbeing.\n\n6.The NHS is committed to providing best value for taxpayers' money and the most effective, fair sustainable use of finite resources. Public funds for healthcare will be devoted solely to the benefit of the people that the NHS serves.\n\n7.The NHS is accountable to the public, communities and patients that it serves. The NHS is a national service funded through national taxation, and it is the Government which sets the framework for the NHS and which is accountable to Parliament for its operation. However, most decisions in the NHS, especially those about the treatment of individuals and the detailed organization of services, are rightly taken by the local NHS and by patients with their clinicians. The system of responsibility and accountability for taking decisions in the NHS should be transparent and clear to the public, patients and staff. The Government will ensure that there is always a clear and up-to-date statement of NHS accountability for this purpose.\n\nThe NHS Constitution outlines a series of patient rights, along with commitments from the NHS, to the patient. These are in the areas of;\n\n- Access to health services\n- Quality of care and environment\n- Nationally approved treatments, drugs and programmes\n- Respect, consent and confidentiality\n- Informed choice\n- Involvement in your healthcare and in the NHS\n- Complaint and redress.\n\nThe document defines rights regarding access to health services, including rights to:\n\nThe NHS also commits: \n\nThe document defines rights regarding quality of care and environment, including:\n\nThe NHS also commits:\n\n\nThe document defines rights regarding approved treatments, drugs and programmes. Patients have the right to:\n\nThe NHS also commits:\n\n\nWith regard to rights regarding respect, consent and confidentiality, the NHS Constitution gives patients the right to:\n\nThe NHS also commits:\n\n\nPatients are given rights under the document in relation to informed choice including the right to:\n\nThe NHS also commits to:\n\n\nThe NHS recognized fully that the population has rights regarding involvement in their own health care and in the NHS. There are rights to:\n8to an open and transparent relationship with the organization providing your care. You must be told about any safety incident relating to your care, which, in the opinion of a healthcare professional, has caused, or could still cause, significant harm or death. You must be given the facts, an apology, and any reasonable support you need.\n\nThe NHS also commits:\n\n\nWhen complaining or seeking redress, patients are given rights to:\n\nThe NHS also commits to:\n\n\n3b. Patients and the public responsibilities\n\nThe NHS belongs to us all. There are things that we can all do for ourselves and for one another, to help it work effectively, and to ensure resources are used responsibly\n\nPlease:\n\n\nIt is the commitment, professionalism and dedication of staff working for the benefit of the people that the NHS serves, which really make the difference. High-quality care requires high-quality workplaces, with commissioners and providers aiming to be employers of choice.\n\nThe rights are there to help ensure that staff;\n\n\nThe NHS commits:\n\nAll staff have responsibilities to the public, their patients and colleagues.\n\n\nStaff should aim to:\n\nyour wider contribution to the aims of your team and the NHS as a whole\npatients, the public, other staff or the organisation itself, at the earliest reasonable opportunity\n\n"}
{"id": "10424024", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10424024", "title": "National Institute of Medical Herbalists", "text": "National Institute of Medical Herbalists\n\nThe National Institute of Medical Herbalists (NIMH) is a professional body regulating medical herbalists in the United Kingdom. It was first established as the National Association of Medical Herbalists in 1864 by a group of herbalists from the north of England, but currently has members worldwide. Members have undergone a lengthy training program before registering as qualified medical herbalists. Practitioners train for at least three years at degree level including over 500 hours of clinical practice, and adhere to a strict code of conduct before they can gain MNIMH or FNIMH after their name. NIMH-registered medical herbalists are trained in the same diagnostic skills as mainstream doctors and take a holistic approach to health. Its official journal is the \"Journal of Herbal Medicine\".\n\nNIMH has approximately 500 active and 300 non-active members and organizes annual conferences.\n\n"}
{"id": "13904544", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13904544", "title": "New Zealand Food Safety Authority", "text": "New Zealand Food Safety Authority\n\nThe New Zealand Food Safety Authority (NZFSA), or Te Pou Oranga Kai O Aotearoa, was the New Zealand government body responsible for food safety. NZFSA was also the controlling authority for imports and exports of food and food-related products. In April 2012 it was merged into the Ministry for Primary Industries.\n\nThe NZFSA administered legislation covering:\n\n\nIn July 2007 the NZFSA was separated from the Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry to form a new Public Service Department. On 1 July 2010, the New Zealand Food Safety Authority (NZFSA) was amalgamated back into the Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry.\n\nFood Bill 160-2 was introduced on 26 May 2010 to make some fundamental changes to New Zealand's domestic food regulatory regime. Significantly, for an export-led economic recovery for New Zealand, the domestic food regulatory regime is the platform for exports. The New Zealand domestic standard is used as the basis for negotiating equivalence arrangements with trading partners. This minimizes the excessive importing country requirements that may be imposed but which do not go to food safety. If passed into law and fully implemented, it would replace the Food Act 1981 and the Food Hygiene Regulations 1974. Food Bill will also make consequential amendments to the Animal Products Act 1999 and the Wine Act 2003 to improve the interface of regulatory processes across food sectors.\n\nMAF (through NZFSA) managed New Zealand's participation in Codex Alimentarius and set strategic priorities which ensure that Codex standards have the widest possible application.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "26183155", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26183155", "title": "Nordic bread culture", "text": "Nordic bread culture\n\nNordic bread culture has existed in Denmark, Finland, Norway, and Sweden from prehistoric time through to the present.\n\nFour grain types dominated in the Nordic countries: barley and rye are the oldest; wheat and oats are more recent. During the Iron Age (500 AD – 1050 AD), rye became the most commonly used grain, followed by barley and oats. Rye was also the most commonly used grain for bread up until the beginning of the 20th century. Today, older grain types such as emmer and spelt are once again being cultivated and new bread types are being developed from these grains.\n\nArchaeological finds in Denmark indicate use of the two triticum (wheat) species, emmer and einkorn, during the Mesolithic Period (8900 BC – 3900 BC). There is no direct evidence of bread-making, but cereals have been crushed, cooked and served as porridge since at least 4,200 BC. During the Neolithic Period (3900 BC – 1800 BC), when agriculture was introduced, barley seems to have taken over to some extent, and ceramic plates apparently used for baking are found. Moulded cereals, with water added to make a dough and baked or fried in the shape of bread, are known as burial gifts in Iron Age graves (200 AD onwards) in the Mälardalen area of central Sweden. However, it is not certain that this bread was eaten; it could just have been a burial gift. During the Bronze Age (1800 BC – 500 AD), oats and the triticum species spelt seem to have been the most commonly used grains, and we see the first real ovens, probably used for baking small loaves and perhaps the first bread (probably around 400 AD).\n\nScandinavian soldiers in Roman times apparently learned baking techniques when working as mercenaries in the Roman army (200–400 AD). They subsequently took the technique home with them to show that they had been employed in high status work on the continent. Early Christian traditions promoted an interest in bread. Culturally, German traditions have influenced most of the bread types in the Nordic countries. In the eastern part of Finland, there is a cultural link to Russia and Slavic bread traditions.\n\nIn the Nordic countries, bread was the main part of a meal until the late 18th century. Four different bread regions can be found in the Nordic area in the late 19th century. In the south, soft rye bread dominated. Further north came crisp bread, usually baked with rye, then thin and crispy barley bread. In the far north, soft barley loaves dominated. During the 19th century, potatoes began to become the centrepiece of meals and bread was put aside as an extra source of carbohydrates in a meal. Bread still retained its key function for breakfast, as the open sandwich is a starter for most Nordic people today and potatoes are used as a centrepiece in lunches and dinners.\n\nA history of Nordic bread from around 1000 AD and some contemporary types and bread innovations is presented below. Countries are presented in alphabetic order (Denmark, Finland, Iceland, Norway and Sweden). The names of the bread types are mostly given in both the contemporary national language and in English.\n\nNot much is known about the bread types used in Denmark up until the Middle Ages, but we believe that they were mostly unleavened and that the flour was a mixture of various types of grain, as a pure monoculture was probably not possible at the time. Rye bread was still baked at farms well into the 19th century, as most people lived in the countryside. The loaves were oblong in shape, made from ground whole rye, leavened with sour dough and sometimes sweetened with malt syrup. The loaves weighed up to 15–16 kg. They were baked once a month, as heating the oven was both time-consuming and used a lot of firewood. The bakers in the towns baked their rye bread for the day.\n\nWe only know little about the other types of bread in the olden times. More refined bread types for special occasions and feasts were prepared from sifted rye flour, and loaves made from wheat must have been eaten. Around 1400, the emblem of the bakers’ guild became the triangular \"skonrogge\" (i.e. a small leavened rye bread that is cleaved and baked again until dry, also Danish beskøjt, French biscuit, Latin bis-coctus: baked twice). Around 1600, the skonrogge was replaced as the baker’s emblem by the pretzel-shaped \"kringle\", which is still the emblem of the bakers’ guild today. We find the first systematic description of Danish bread in 1821 in Charles Adolph Dénys Mourier’s book on bread and bread-making. He describes various leavened bread types: \"rugbrød\" (whole rye bread), \"franskbrød\" (white wheat bread), \"sigtebrød\" (sifted rye bread) and \"tvebakker\" (wheat biscuits), as well as unleavened bread types: \"fladbrød\" (wheat, rye, oats, bran in various combinations) and wafers.\n\nIn the late 19th century, Danish bakers in the larger towns created the idea of freshly baked bread in the morning (morgenbrød) in various shapes and with a variety of seasonings, baked from wheat intended for the rising bourgeoisie. Since then, freshly baked bread has been produced in every Danish baker’s shop together with all the other kinds of bread. This decentralised form of baking bread alongside the industrialised production of bread seems to be characteristic of the Danish bread sector. The quality of Danish bread declined in the latter part of the 20th century, but it has dramatically recovered during the past 20 years due to many factors: a growing interest in bread, criticism from gastronomes, the marketing of better quality flour, better baking entrepreneurship, top restaurants baking their own bread and, last but not least, inspiration from immigrants. Consumption has to a great extent switched from rye bread to wheat bread.\n\nNew types of flour have played a pivotal role in the improvements in Danish bread. Aurion, a Danish organic company, has spearheaded these improvements by obtaining interesting types of grain from many sources, e.g. The Nordic Gene Bank and a few grain types found in an old farmhouse. This strategy has resulted in the marketing of organic flour made from emmer, einkorn, spelt, kamut, ølandshvede, durum and svedjerug.\n\nNew bakers – The baker’s traditional monopoly in delivering fresh baked bread has been challenged by petrol station outlets selling good quality bake-off bread.\n\nCenturies ago, bread was an important part of the daily meal; for the poorest households, it was the only meal of the day.\n\nCultivated varieties were barley, which is the oldest cultivated grain, followed by rye and oat; all used for porridge and baking. When grain was scarce, people used many different types of tree bark such as birch and pine as a substitute to make bark bread. Around the 10th century, wheat became a more commonly used cultivated grain, but it did not overtake rye or oats. In the Early Middle Ages, the most commonly used cultivation technique was three-shift cultivation. This type of cultivation method involved using one third of the field for autumn grain (especially rye), one third for spring grain and the rest for fallow. This approach enabled good harvests and provided good pasture for cattle. The method also guaranteed crucial grain supplies for bread flour.\n\nFinland’s cultural position between East and West has also left its mark on bread-making. Western Finland was influenced by baking and cultivation techniques from Scandinavia, whereas eastern Finland was exposed to Russian influences. \n\nIn North Karelia, in eastern Finland, households baked their bread in large ovens several times a week and the bread was eaten fresh. Bread was made from rye and dough heart (sourdough starter) could be hundreds of years’ old, bread raised without added yeast.\n\nIn western Finland, it was not as common for bread to be baked weekly. Baking happened probably once or twice a month using barley and oats. Added yeast was used in the dough. Before baking, a small hole was made in the corner of the round, flattened bread, and after baking the bread was hung on poles suspended just below the kitchen ceiling to dry and for storage: see ruisreikäleipä. Barley, and sometimes wheat, was used in the western part of Finland. The most frequently cultivated grain was rye, followed by barley. \n\nBread culture in central Finland was influenced by both the East and the West. Bread was also influenced to some extent by Lapland; bread was called “rieska”, but it was much thicker than Lappish rieska. Lapland was strongly influenced by both Swedish Lapland and Norway. \n\nThe most varied bread traditions in Finland are to be found in the regions of Karelia and Kainuu, where cereals have been ingeniously combined with other natural products such as berries, fish and vegetables. Rice is a traditional filling in the Karelian pastry and the latest research show that this influence has a Russian origin, where rice was used in pastries as early as the 17th century.\n\nIn the 19th century, bread-making in the cities moved to local bakeries. Poor households baked their own bread daily in small apartments. The bread consisted of thinner, multigrain breads, elongated \"sekaleipä\" mixed-cereal bread. Bread was made from all four of the cereals grown in Finland: wheat, rye, barley and oats, usually ground into various grades. Rye bread can be either light or dark in colour, depending on the type of flour mixture used, and it is typical for rye bread to include about 20% wheat flour. New trends and old traditions are bringing old-fashioned rye breads back to the shelves in shops. These rye breads are made entirely from rye flour and are the most common breads in the Finnish diet. Other types of sour bread are still baked in the residual heat of ovens and the longer baking time at low temperature gives the bread both a darker colour and a higher density and hardness than ordinary rye bread. A few wheat breads are still made in Finland, although most are simple buns or loaves of sliced or unsliced bread. \"Vesirinkeli\", water rings, are small, almost tasteless rings of yeast-leavened wheat bread, which resemble bagels. They are cooked in salted boiling water before being baked. Oats are the most commonly produced grain in Finland and many oat bread types are available, although they are not as popular as rye breads. The most common bread types in Finland are bread rolls or buns, “sämpylä” or flat soft bread pieces.\n\nThe potato, although a late introduction to Finland in the early 19th century, features heavily in food culture and has found its way into many kinds of bread. Dough made with potato is usually very soft and the bread will be moister and fluffier than plain wheat or oat bread. This bread is widely used, particularly in northern Finland and Lapland.\n\n“Ruisnappi“ – In Tampere, central Finland, a large bakery has invented a rye snack, flavoured with chilli, lemon, onion and garlic. The innovation originated from the idea of using the bread taken from the holes which were removed from traditional round crispbreads, which was considered as waste.\n\nRye hazelnut yoghurt – Finland has its own favorite yoghurt – rye-hazelnut. This product was developed from Finnish rye bread crumbs and yoghurt.\n\nSee also , Breads of Finland\n\nWith the settlement of the country (around 800–900 AD), grain (barley) was brought to Iceland, cultivated and used for bread and porridge. In Mediaeval times, wheat was to some extent imported. However, it was mostly used for bread for chiefs and for oblates. Grain cultivation is thought to have been abandoned before 1600 due to harsher climatic conditions, and subsequently most grains such as barley and rye were imported. Until the late 19th century, wheat was mostly bought by richer people. In the 17th century, rye and barley were the most common grains, with rye becoming more prominent in the 18th and 19th centuries.\n\nThe issue of a lack of grain was overcome in different ways in different parts of the country. In some areas, grain was made to go further using Dulse (\"Palmaria palmata\"; ), Iceland Moss (\"Cetraria islandica\"; IS: fjallagrös) or Irish Moss (\"Chondrus crispus\"; ) in compotes and breads, or by flattening the dough so thin that the bread became almost transparent. In the SE region (Skaftafellssýslur), locals knew how to use the lyme grass (\"Leymus arenarius\") (; sometimes called the Icelandic grain) for centuries, where it was used in compotes, bread, pancakes, etc. These grain substitutes gave the bread a distinctive character. Dulse breads and biscuits can be made by mixing Dulse, rye, and Icelandic Moss in equal proportions.\n\nOnly in the last few decades has grain (barley) been cultivated. It is still cultivated on a very small scale, mostly for feed. Other grains, such as varieties of rye and wheat, have been cultivated, although this is still very much at an experimental stage.\n\nIt was not until the 18th century that it became common practice to make leavened rye breads. Sour dough was mostly used (older rye dough which had started to ferment). These breads were called pottbrauð (pot breads) because they were baked (or rather steamed) on a stove under a pot (upside down) – i.e. a kind of oven. Around 1900, it was common to bake these breads in sealed containers (i.e. from imported sweets, today often from milk cartons). When ovens became a household item, the containers were placed in them. Where thermal springs were available nearby, they were (and still are) used to bake these dark, moist and rather sweet breads (taking up to 24 hours). Rye breads baked in hot springs are a popular item today, being served for local consumption as well as for tourists.\n\nIn general, stock fish () was served as a bread substitute, eaten with butter on the side with almost every meal. Today, stock fish has lost its role as a bread substitute. It is however still eaten in the same way, either with or without butter. It is a popular snack, which has found a new target group within the sports food sector due to its high protein content and favourable amino acid content.\n\nThere have always been some imported breads in Iceland (as indicated by reports from the 14th century). However, these breads where mostly consumed by chiefs/richer people until the 20th century. Foreign sailors often paid for services on land with different kinds of bread (double-baked bread, cookies, skonrogge, etc.).\n\nMost types of breads available in other Western countries are now also available in Iceland, either baked in Iceland or imported. Everyday bread is mostly made by industrial bakeries or bought at the local bakery. However, baking at home is still a common practice amongst young and older households alike, especially in connection with having guests and celebrations. Both traditional recipes and modern/new recipes are popular, with new methods replacing older ones to some extent. Of the bread types currently available, flatbrauð (flatbread) and laufabrauð (leaf bread) have the longest traditions.\n\nFlatbrauð came in various sizes and thicknesses and was made from rye-flour and hot water. Sometimes wheat was added as well. The bread was kneaded and flattened into a round form by a cake roller or by hand, picked and baked on a hot stove or in ashes. Before the Second World War, flatbrauð was only served with a meal. However, since then it has become a popular feature on the coffee table. Today, flatbrauð with hangikjöt (smoked, cooked lamb, in thin slices) is often served, both in restaurants and at home.\n\nSeveral types of fried bread can be categorised as traditional; laufabrauð (leaf bread), kleinur (bows), lummur (small pancakes), pönnukökur (crêpes). With the exception of laufabrauð, none of these is mentioned in written records until the late 18th century. Laufabrauð is sometimes called “snowflake bread” in English because of its intricate cut-out pattern. Through the centuries, it was probably only served to chiefs, made from wheat and sugar and fried with butter. By the 19th century, it had become a festival bread for public consumption. At the time, it was made from cheaper ingredients, barley and rye meal, and fried in sheep fat (tólg). In the late 19th century, laufabrauð was a festival bread in the north and northeast, mostly at Christmas. Since then, the tradition has spread across the whole country. Making this crispy bread is still a popular family event today and for many an essential part of the Christmas preparations. Dozens of family members or friends will often spend an entire December afternoon kneading, rolling, decorating and frying the bread, which is then kept until Christmas Eve or Christmas Day, when it is eaten with smoked lamb.\n\n“Mýbiti” (Midge bite) – Students from The Icelandic Academy of Arts have developed a local “fastfood” in cooperation with farmers around lake Mývatn (Midge lake). The “fastfood” is a sandwich made from rye bread that is baked in the hot springs nearby and shaped to resemble a unique green algae, lakeball (; \"Aegagropila linnaei\"), which is found in the lake (this algae is only found in a few lakes in the world). The sandwich is then filled with local ingredients, such as smoked Arctic char.\n\nRye bread ice cream – Café Loki in Reykjavík is an example of a café/restaurant that is experimenting with new applications of rye bread. One of its recent products is an ice cream spiced with roasted and ground rye bread (similar to krokant).\n\nSince the early history of Norway, two types of bread have been mentioned: the white wheat loafs in the homes of noblemen and the heavy loafs of coarse bread in the thrall’s cabin. Barley is the oldest grain and dominated in the mountainous northern parts of the region, while oats were most common in humid areas. Because of the cold climate, rye and wheat were cultivated only in southern Norway, and importing was necessary. Wheat products were very exclusive and primarily enjoyed by the elite on festive occasions. Wheat was also used in the holy bread in churches.\n\nThe coarse loafs were simply made from flour or crushed grain that was kneaded with hot water or some other liquid and shaped into a flat cake of dough. These cakes were placed on a flat stone beside the fire, in the ashes or on the embers of the fire. They were used as a bread plate with fish, meats and vegetables. These breads were mainly baked from barley and oats and had in common the fact that they could not be kept for more than a few days. They needed to be preserved. This led to the development of very thin, dry and crispy flatbreads (flatbrød) that could be stored for many years.\n\nFor festive occasions, especially Christmas, the Norwegians have a long tradition of making various kinds of very thin flatbread called lefser, tunnbrød, kling, klining or krotekake. Both men and women participate in baking these traditional breads; one rolls the dough and the other fries on wide, flat pans (takke). Lefser can contain fine wheat, fine barley and perhaps potatoes, milk and eggs. After frying, they can be served with meat, sausages or fish. Today, they are used for making wraps with various fillings.\n\nIn olden days, grain was ground on manually operated rotary querns. However, during the Middle Ages, millstones powered by a waterwheel were introduced, and large amounts of grain could be ground more quickly. These mills depended on a good flow of water, which mainly occurred during the autumn and spring. These two seasons were the time for baking flatbread and lefser. Once rye began to be cultivated around 1500, the baking techniques changed to leaven breads in ovens, e.g. with sour dough and later with other leavens. The rye in oven-baked bread was often mixed with barley for economy. It was only baked once a month, or more often during the summer. During storage, these breads gradually became drier and drier, even if they were carefully wrapped in cloth or placed in grain bins. However, dry bread was also more economical and eating fresh bread was considered a luxury. A high intake of wholegrain bread has been typical of Norwegian bread eating habits for both breakfast and lunch.\n\nA special preparation was used to make leavened oven baked bread longer-lasting. This was particularly necessary for ships’ crews on long voyages. This consisted of wholegrain balls cut in two and dried in an oven until dry and crispy. Such bread is called kavring or tvebak, meaning ‘baked twice’, and can be stored for a long time.\n\nThese days, we are travelling more and experiencing globalisation, new immigrants are bringing their cuisines, classic national and regional products are being revitalised, high-end restaurants for the business elite are springing up, and we are seeing a growing interest in healthy organic food.\n\nA research report from 2008 shows that eight out of ten respondents reported eating bread for breakfast and lunch regularly. However, few of them reported eating bread for their evening meal. The report also shows that bread and bread meals have a high food cultural value in Norway. Six out of ten considered taking a packed lunch (matpakke) to work or school a good habit and something that they enjoyed.\n\nMany new types of bread have reached the market in recent years. A high percentage of people reported eating bread types such as spelt, specialty, gourmet, and fibre/bran bread, as well as ciabattas and baguettes, regularly, although very few reported doing so on a daily basis. Norwegian bakers now have competition from abroad. The wholegrain bread from local bakers must give way to huge lorry loads of baguettes and frozen dough offering cheaper products.\n\nBank of recipes and information – In 2007, the information office for bread and cereals (Opplysningskontoret for brød og korn) was founded. Their slogan is “Bread for every meal”. Their aim is to increase the consumption of bread and cereals. They have created websites for: Nutrition, Facts, Recipes, School and Press. Last year, they held an innovative competition for pupils to make the best school bread.\n\nSince the very beginning, bread-making has always been a male task and associated with high status in Sweden. These first breads were baked using barley flour, or perhaps wheat for thin or flat bread cakes (tunnbröd). Bread became an important item in the new Christian religion (AD 900) for celebrating Holy Communion (bread and wine), which emphasised bread as being both new and important.\n\nThin bread was baked on stones or iron plates or in a large oven, and this tradition is still in existence today.\n\nIn Medieval times (1100–1200 AD) in central and southern Sweden, rye flour was baked into soft loafs or, in the central regions, into crispbread (knäckebröd, “bread which can be broken”). The crispbread was baked with a hole in the middle so that it could be threaded over a beam and stored suspended from the ceiling. From Medieval times and the introduction of the first simple watermills, these flatbreads and crispbreads were baked only once or twice a year and kept dry in a storage chamber.\n\nRye flour was sometimes mixed with pea flour or, in times of famine, bark. From the 18th century, it was mixed with grated potatoes to make it last longer. Oatmeal was used in southwestern Sweden to bake thin breads or flatbreads. Sour dough was used as yeast, along with yeast from beer production (from the 19th century). Around 1860–70, industrial pressed yeast production started to result in more voluminous bread.\n\nIn southern Sweden, rye bread was more often baked into softer and thick bread cakes (kavring, “round bread”), and from the 19th century flavoured with syrup or molasses. Professional male bakers started to sell bread in the cities during the 13th century. However, in the countryside, everyday bread was baked at home by the women. Swedish recipe books dating from the 17th–18th century contain recipes of cakes, but not everyday bread, indicating that cakes were baked less often and amongst the higher echelons of society. The process of how to make everyday bread was kept among women as tacit knowledge.\n\nA minority group in northern Sweden in the valley of Torneå, known as the Tornedalians, baked a soft bread called rieska (unleavened bread). Quite unlike other types of bread in the surrounding northern region, rieska is a type of bread that does not keep, which is why it is baked daily or weekly. The Sàmi people have also baked soft bread on stones on a more daily basis. The large Finnish minority group in Sweden has eaten a stiffer rye bread baked with sour dough.\n\nBread was historically served in one of two ways, either broken into pieces in a soup or dipped in a hot drink, or served in the form of butter spread on a slice of bread and served as an open sandwich. In regions where they lacked cereals or bread, dried fish has functioned as bread. In order to make it edible, the fish was first beaten with a stone until it became soft. The fish was spread with butter and eaten like a sandwich. Potato came to replace bread as a staple food during the 19th century and bread retained its position as the main component of breakfast, but it became a side-dish to hot luncheons and dinners when potato took over the former central role of bread.\n\nFigure to the right shows the bread regions that existed around 1880, according to Åke Campbell (1950), before industrialisation led to all types of bread becoming available nationwide. Throughout history, the cities have always had a wider variety of bread types, as well as more expensive and higher status bread products in the form of cakes baked with sugar, butter and oriental spices. The boundaries should not be interpreted as being definitive, as cultural ideals always tend to vary along a boundary.\n\nDuring the switch to a modern urban and industrialised society, bread types changed when large industrial bakeries introduced new soft bread, which from the early 1920s was often sweetened (sötlimpa, sweet thick bread). From then on, bread was bought from stores and bakeries, rather than baked at home, as had previously been the case. Regional variations decreased due to the transportation and marketing of bread as a national product. The consumption of bread products of various kinds has increased since the 1990s and wholegrain bread and wheat bread are the most popular. All older bread types still exist alongside the new ones, indicating the much greater variety open to individuals today than has been the case in the past. Soft bread consumption has increased by more than 60% since the 1990s, from 30 kg to 50 kg per person and year today (2007). The older types of bread are still eaten in Sweden, but today they are usually professionally baked. New international types such as naan bread, ciabatta, focaccia, pita and bagels have been popular since the 1990s. 20% of Swedes are first- or second-generation immigrants and use bread both as they did in their home countries and as it is used today in contemporary Swedish normative food culture.\n\nBread Ice Cream – In Grythyttan in central Sweden, the local ice cream and chocolate shop has invented a new ice cream. They have taken an ordinary white vanilla ice cream and flavoured it with dry crispbread of rye (knäckebröd). Small pieces of the bread are also added to the ice cream, giving it the texture of both smooth ice cream and hard and sometime soggy bites of the crispbread. The ice cream is very popular among young people.\n\nNordic food culture in the south and east of the region comprises a tradition of baking softer rye breads. In Denmark and especially in Sweden, the soft rye bread is sweeter; in Finland, a drier sour rye bread type is traditional. Iceland has for the past hundred years imported grain to make bread, as grain is not cultivated on the island. Due to the lack of grain, local ingredients such as Dulse or Iceland Moss were sometimes used to partly replace the grain. Soft sweet rye bread has also been baked for centuries in Iceland (i.e. the rye bread baked in hot springs) – the difference is that the rye has been imported from the other Nordic countries. People in the northern regions of Norway, Sweden and Finland have a tradition of baking thin flat, crispy breads using barley. Since Medieval times, bread was only baked once or twice a year and stored in dry chambers. In central Sweden and central Finland, there is a belt where a tradition of baking thin rye bread has developed. A paradox is that amongst people in the northern sub-alpine regions of Norway, Sweden and Finland and amongst the Sámi people, bread has been baked on a weekly basis and eaten as soft bread cakes. In all Nordic countries, dried fish has been used as a bread substitute, being served buttered. Today, international bread types are mixed with the old ones, and bread is used both in food innovations such as yoghurt with bread and fastfood bread and in new meal settings.\n\n"}
{"id": "41521927", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41521927", "title": "Nurse licensure", "text": "Nurse licensure\n\nNurse licensure is the process by which various regulatory bodies, usually a Board of Nursing, regulate the practice of nursing within its jurisdiction. The primary purpose of nurse licensure is to grant permission to practice as a nurse after verifying the applicant has met minimal competencies to safely perform nursing activities within nursing's scope of practice. Licensure is necessary when the regulated activities are complex, require specialized knowledge and skill and independent decision making.\n\nNurse licensure also provides:\n\nNurse licensure also establishes a registry of licensed nurses, hence the term \"Registered Nurse\".\n\nThe first nurse licensure and registration program was initiated in 1901 in New Zealand when the Nurses Registration Act 1901 was enacted into law. The first licensure laws in the United States came in 1903. In the US, applicants must successfully pass the NCLEX exam prior to being granted a license.\n"}
{"id": "34730803", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34730803", "title": "Nutrition and cognition", "text": "Nutrition and cognition\n\nRelatively speaking, the brain consumes an immense amount of energy in comparison to the rest of the body. The mechanisms involved in the transfer of energy from foods to neurons are likely to be fundamental to the control of brain function. Human bodily processes, including the brain, all require both macronutrients, as well as micronutrients.\n\nInsufficient intake of selected vitamins, or certain metabolic disorders, may affect cognitive processes by disrupting the nutrient-dependent processes within the body that are associated with the management of energy in neurons, which can subsequently affect synaptic plasticity, or the ability to encode new memories.\n\nCholine is an essential nutrient and its primary function within the human body is the synthesis of cellular membranes, although it serves other functions as well. It is a precursor molecule to the neurotransmitter Acetylcholine which serves a wide range of functions including motor control and memory. Choline itself has also been shown to have additional health benefits in relation to memory and choline deficiencies may be related to some liver and neurological disorders. Because of its role in cellular synthesis, choline is an important nutrient during the prenatal and early postnatal development of offspring as it contributes heavily to the development of the brain. Despite the wide range of foods that choline is found in, studies have shown that the mean choline intake of men, women and children are below the Adequate Intake levels. Women, especially pregnant or lactating women, older people, and infants, are especially at risk for choline deficiency.\n\nB vitamins, also known as the B-complex, are an interrelated group of nutrients which often co-occur in food. The complex consists of: thiamine (B), riboflavin (B), niacin (B), pantothenic acid (B), pyridoxin (B), folic acid (B), cobalamin (B), and biotin. B vitamins are not synthesized in the body, and thus need to be obtained from food. B-complex vitamins are water-soluble vitamins, which means that they are not stored within the body. In consequence, the B vitamins need ongoing replenishment. It is possible to identify broad cognitive effects of certain B vitamins, as they are involved in many significant metabolic processes within the brain.\n\nThis vitamin is important for the facilitation of glucose use, thus ensuring the production of energy for the brain, and normal functioning of the nervous system, muscles and heart. Thiamine is found throughout mammalian nervous tissue, including the brain and spinal cord. Metabolism and coenzyme function of the vitamin suggest a distinctive function for thiamine within the nervous system. The brain retains its thiamine content in the face of a vitamin-deficient diet with great tenacity, as it is the last of all nervous tissues studied to become depleted.\n\nLack of thiamin causes the disease known as beriberi. There are two forms of beriberi: \"wet\", and \"dry\". Dry beriberi is also known as cerebral beriberi and characterized by peripheral neuropathy. Thiamine deficiency has been reported in up to 80% of alcoholic patients due to inadequate nutritional intake, reduced absorption, and impaired utilization of thiamine. Clinical signs of B deficiency include mental changes such as apathy, decrease in short-term memory, confusion, and irritability; also increased rates of depression, dementia, falls, and fractures in old age.\n\nThe lingering symptoms of neuropathy associated with cerebral beriberi are known as Korsakoff's syndrome, or the chronic phase of Wernicke-Korsakoff's. Wernicke encephalopathy is characterized by ocular abnormalities, ataxia of gait, a global state of confusion, and neuropathy. The state of confusion associated with Wernicke's may consist of apathy, inattention, spatial disorientation, inability to concentrate, and mental sluggishness or restlessness. Clinical diagnosis of Wernicke's disease cannot be made without evidence of ocular disturbance, yet these criteria may be too rigid. Korsakoff's syndrome likely represents a variation in the clinical manifestation of Wernicke encephalophathy, as they both share similar pathological origin. It is often characterized by confabulation, disorientation, and profound amnesia. Characteristics of the neuropathology are varied, but generally consist of bilaterally symmetrical midline lesions of brainstem areas, including the mammillary bodies, thalamus, periaqueductal region, hypothalamus, and the cerebellar vermis. Immediate treatment of Wernicke encephalopathy involves the administration of intravenous thiamine, followed with long-term treatment and prevention of the disorder through oral thiamine supplements, alcohol abstinence, and a balanced diet. Improvements in brain functioning of chronic alcoholics may occur with abstinence-related treatment, involving the discontinuation of alcohol consumption and improved nutrition.\n\nVitamin B, also known as niacin, includes both nicotinamide as well as nicotinic acid, both of which function in many biological oxidization and reduction reactions within the body. Niacin is involved in the synthesis of fatty acids and cholesterol, known mediators of brain biochemistry, and in effect, of cognitive function. Pellagra is a niacin deficiency disease. Pellagra is classically characterized by four 4 \"D's\": diarrhea, dermatitis, dementia, and death. Neuropsychiatric manifestations of pellagra include headache, irritability, poor concentration, anxiety, hallucinations, stupor, apathy, psychomotor unrest, photophobia, tremor, ataxia, spastic paresis, fatigue, and depression. Symptoms of fatigue and insomnia may progress to encephalophathy characterized by confusion, memory loss, and psychosis. Those afflicted with pellagra may undergo pathological alterations in the nervous system. Findings may include demylenation and degeneration of various affected parts of the brain, spinal cord, and peripheral nerves.\n\nOral nicotinamide has been promoted as an over-the-counter drug for the treatment of Alzheimer's dementia. Conversely, no clinically significant effect has been found for the drug, as nicotinamide administration has not been found to promote memory functions in patients with mild to moderate dementia of either Alzheimers', vascular, or fronto-temporal types. This evidence suggests that nicotinamide may treat dementia as related to pellegra, but administration does not effectively treat other types of dementia. Though treatment with niacin does little to alter the effects of Alzheimer's dementia, niacin intake from foods is inversely associated with the disease.\n\nFolate and vitamin B play a vital role in the synthesis of S-adenosylmethionine, which is of key importance in the maintenance and repair of all cells, including neurons. In addition, folate has been linked to the maintenance of adequate brain levels of cofactors necessary for chemicals reactions that lead to the synthesis of serotonin and catecholamine neurotransmitters. Concentrations of blood plasma folate and homocysteine concentrations are inversely related, such that an increase in dietary folate decreases homocysteine concentration. Thus, dietary intake of folate is a major determinant of homocysteine levels within the body. The relationship between folate and B is so interdependent that deficiency in either vitamin can result in megaloblastic anemia, characterized by organic mental change.\n\nThe link between levels of folate and altered mental function is not large, but is sufficient enough to suggest a causal association. Deficiency in folate can cause an elevation of homocysteine within the blood, as the clearance of homocysteine requires enzymatic action dependent on folate, and to a lesser extent, vitamins B and B. Elevated homocysteine has been associated with increased risk of vascular events, as well as dementia.\n\nDifferences lie in the presentation of megaloblastic anemia induced by either folate or B deficiency. Megaloblastic anemia related to deficiency in B generally results in peripheral neuropathy, whereas folate-related anemia often results in affective, or mood disorders. Neurological effects are not often associated with folate-related megaloblastic anemia, although demyelinating disorders may eventually present. In one study, mood disturbances were recorded for the majority of patients presenting with megaloblastic anemia in the absence of B deficiency. In addition, folate concentrations within blood plasma have been found to be lower in patients with both unipolar and bipolar depressive disorders when compared with control groups. In addition, depressive groups with low folate concentrations responded less well to standard antidepressant therapy than did those with normal levels within plasma. However, replication of these findings are less robust.\n\nIntake of the vitamin has been linked to deficits in learning and memory, particularly within the elderly population. Elderly people deficient in folate may present with deficits in free recall and recognition, which suggests that levels of folate may be related to efficacy of episodic memory. Lack of adequate folate may produce a form of dementia considered to be reversible with administration of the vitamin. Indeed, there is a degree of improvement in memory associated with folate treatment. In a 3-year longitudinal study of men and women aged 50–70 years with elevated homocysteine plasma concentration, researchers found that a daily oral folic acid supplementation of 800μg resulted in an increase in folate levels and a decrease in homocysteine levels within blood plasma. In addition to these results, improvements of memory, and information-processing speed, as well as slight improvements of sensorimotor speed were observed, which suggests there is a link between homocysteine and cognitive performance. However, while the amount of cognitive improvement after treatment with folate is correlated with the severity of folate deficiency, the severity of cognitive decline is independent of the severity of folate deficiency. This suggests that the dementia observed may not be entirely related to levels folate, as there could be additional factors that were not accounted for which might have an effect.\n\nBecause neurulation may be completed before pregnancy is recognized, it is recommended that women capable of becoming pregnant take about 400μg of folic acid from fortified foods, supplements, or a combination of the two in order to reduce the risk of neural tube defects. These major anomalies in the nervous system can be reduced by 85% with systematic folate supplementation occurring before the onset of pregnancy. The incidence of Alzheimer's and other cognitive diseases has been loosely connected to deficiencies in folate. It is recommended for the elderly to consume folate through food, fortified or not, and supplements in order to reduce risk of developing the disease.\n\nAlso known as cobalamin, B is important for the maintenance of neurological function and psychiatric health. B deficiency, also known as hypocobalaminemia, often results from complications involving absorption into the body. An assortment of neurological effects can be observed in 75–90% of individuals of any age with clinically observable B deficiency. Cobalamin deficiency manifestations are apparent in the abnormalities of the spinal cord, peripheral nerves, optic nerves, and cerebrum. These abnormalities involve a progressive degeneration of myelin, and may be expressed behaviorally through reports of sensory disturbances in the extremities, or motor disturbances, such as gait ataxia. Combined myelopathy and neuropathy are prevalent within a large percentage of cases. Cognitive changes may range from loss of concentration to memory loss, disorientation, and dementia. All of these symptoms may present with or without additional mood changes. Mental symptoms are extremely variable, and include mild disorders of mood, mental slowness, and memory defect. Memory defect encompasses symptoms of confusion, severe agitation and depression, delusions and paranoid behavior, visual and auditory hallucinations, dysphasia, violent maniacal behavior and epilepsy. It has been suggested that mental symptoms could be related to a decrease in cerebral metabolism, as caused by the state of deficiency.\n\nMild to moderate cases of pernicious anemia may show poor concentration. In severe cases of pernicious anemia, individuals may present with various cognitive problems such as dementia, and memory loss. It is not always easy to determine whether B deficiency is present, especially within older adults. Patients may present with violent behavior or more subtle personality changes. They may also present with vague complaints, such as fatigue or memory loss, that may be attributed to normative aging processes. Cognitive symptoms may mimic behavior in Alzheimer's and other dementias as well.\n\nPatients deficient in B despite normal absorption functionality may be treated through oral administration of at least 6 µg/day of the vitamin in pill form. Patients who suffer from irreversible causes of deficiency, such as pernicious anemia or old age, will need lifelong treatment with pharmacological doses of B. Strategy for treatment is dependent on the patient's level of deficiency as well as their level of cognitive functioning. Treatment for those with severe deficiency involves 1000 µg of B administered intramuscularly daily for one week, weekly for one month, then monthly for the rest of the patients life. The progression of neurological manifestations of cobalamin deficiency is generally gradual. As a result, early diagnosis is important or else irreversible damage may occur. Patients who become demented usually show little to no cognitive improvement with the administration of B. There is risk that folic acid administered to those with B deficiency may mask anemic symptoms without solving the issue at hand. In this case, patients would still be at risk for neurological deficits associated with B deficiency-related anemia, which are not associated with anemia related to folate deficiency.\n\nVitamin A is an essential nutrient for mammals which takes form in either retinol or the provitamin beta-Carotene. It helps regulation of cell division, cell function, genetic regulation, helps enhance the immune system, and is required for brain function, chemical balance, growth and development of the central nervous system and vision.\n\nFoods that are rich in omega-3 fatty acids have been shown to decrease risk of getting Alzheimer's disease. Omega-3 fatty acids, primarily docosahexaenoic acid (DHA), which is the most prevalent omega-3 fatty acid found in neurons, have been studied extensively for use in possible prevention and therapy of Alzheimer's disease. Some studies (cross-sectional) suggest that reduced intake or low brain levels of DHA are associated with earlier development of cognitive deficits or development of dementia, including Alzheimer's disease. Several clinical trials suggest that omega-3 fatty acid supplementation does not have significant effects in the treatment of Alzheimer's disease—which in turn may suggest that the protective benefits of omega-3 fatty acid supplementation could depend on the scope of the disease and other confounding factors. A diet that is rich in antioxidants will also help get rid of free radicals in the body, which could be a cause for Alzheimer's. The buildup of Beta Amyloid plaques, a marker highly associated with Alzheimer's disease, generates cell damaging free radicals. Therefore, the role of antioxidants as protectants against Alzheimer's disease has become a hot topic of study. Simple dietary modification, towards fewer highly processed carbohydrates and relatively more fats ad cholesterol, is likely a protective measure against Alzheimer's disease.\n\nAdditionally, folic acid has also been found to improve the memory of older people. There is some evidence that deficiency in folic acid may increase the risk of dementia, especially Alzheimer's disease and vascular dementia, but there is debate about whether it lowers risk of cognitive impairment in the older population. Folic acid supplementation is shown to lower blood homocysteine levels, while folic acid deficiency can lead to a condition of high levels of homocysteine (Hcy) in the bloodstream called hyperhomocysteinemia (HHcy). HHcy is related to several vascular diseases such as coronary artery disease, peripheral vascular disease, and stroke.\n\n"}
{"id": "56411960", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56411960", "title": "Obinna Onwujekwe", "text": "Obinna Onwujekwe\n\nObinna E. Onwujekwe is Professor of Health Economics and Policy and Pharmacoeconomics in the Departments of Health Administration & Management and Pharmacology and Therapeutics, College of Medicine, based in University of Nigeria.\n\nOnwujekwe qualified as a medical doctor from University of Nigeria and later obtained a MSc in Health Economics. He obtained a Certificate in District Health Management from the Swiss Tropical Institute Basel. He then proceeded to the United Kingdom where he bagged a PhD in Health Economics and Policy from the London School of Hygiene and Tropical Medicine.\n\nOnwujekwe was a member of a DFID-funded Consortium for Research on Equitable Health Systems (CREHS) from 2006 to 2010. He was also a member of the European Commission-funded Eval-Health project from 2011 to 2014. He was also the Dean in the Faculty of Health Sciences and Technology at UNN between August 2012 to July 2014; and the Head of Department of Health Administration and Management between 2005 and 2012.\n\nSince 2007, Onwujekwe has served as a Director at the West African Health Economics Network (WAHEN). He has also been the National Coordinator of the Nigerian Malaria Control Association (NaMCA) from 2009; the President of the Nigerian Health Economics Association (NiHEA) since 2010; and the Chairman of the University of Nigeria Senate Research Grants Committee since 2014.\n\nOnwujekwe conducts research on health economics - especially looking at the impact of the stigma of HIV/AIDS in Nigeria on the willingness to access anti-retroviral drugs, and malaria prevention strategies. His work has been important in informing international aid agencies such as DFID's aid agencies.\n\nOnwujekwe has authored and co-authored dozens of peer-reviewed articles including: \n"}
{"id": "28665798", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28665798", "title": "One-e-App", "text": "One-e-App\n\nOne-e-App is a Web-based system that lets families and individuals apply for multiple health, social service and other support programs from one location. One-e-App is used by consumers themselves or by staff who assist families and individuals at community clinics, hospitals, state and county agencies, food banks and other locations. The system allows individuals to apply for a range of programs such as Medicaid, CHIP, Food Stamps (SNAP), Earned Income Tax Credit, Child Tax Credit, utility assistance, local health insurance expansion programs and more. One-e-App uses Mashup technology to integrate with county, state and other systems to permit electronic submission of applications, supporting documents and signatures.\n\nOne-e-App is used in Arizona (launched as Health-e-Arizona in 2002), California, Indiana (launched as Ind-e-App in 2003) and Maryland (launched in Howard County in 2008 as Health-e-Link, changed to Healthy Maryland in 2011). One-e-App is used in 14 California counties: Alameda, Fresno, Humboldt, Los Angeles, Napa, Orange, Sacramento, San Diego, San Francisco, San Joaquin, San Mateo, Santa Clara, Santa Cruz, and Sonoma. Nine million applications for public and private benefits have been generated in Arizona, California, Indiana, and Maryland.\n\nAn independent study of One-e-App conducted by The Lewin Group, found One-e-App reduces the time it takes to complete and process an application, increases efficiency for application assistors, and increases assistor satisfaction.\n\nOne-e-App technology is built on service-oriented architecture (SOA), which is consistent with the direction being promoted by the Federal government through the Medicaid Information Technology Architecture (MITA).\n\nEnrollment programs\nOne-e-App currently supports applications for the following programs:\n\nOne-e-App is developed and managed by Social Interest Solutions (SIS). SIS is a non-profit organization with a mission to improve the quality of life for individuals and families by combining technology innovation with policy and process reform to help underserved people gain access to health, social services and other support programs.\n\n\nm.youtube.com"}
{"id": "44223050", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44223050", "title": "Ousmane Kone", "text": "Ousmane Kone\n\nOusmane Kone (born 19 May 1952) is a Malian politician who has been Minister of Health and Public Hygiene in the Council of Ministers of Mali from 2013 to 2015. He obtained a bachelor's degree at Lycée Askia Mohamed in 1972. He also studied at the École nationale d’administration (ÉNA) in Bamako, the University of Montpellier and the Mediterranean Agronomic Institute of Montpellier. From 2002 to 2013, he was the technical advisor to the Ministry of Health.\n"}
{"id": "8699271", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8699271", "title": "Pedu Lake", "text": "Pedu Lake\n\nPedu Lake (Malay: \"Tasik Pedu\") is a man made lake located in Padang Terap District, Kedah, Malaysia. This huge lake covers an area of 75 km².\n\n"}
{"id": "43845195", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43845195", "title": "Prehydrated electrons", "text": "Prehydrated electrons\n\nPrehydrated electrons are free electrons that occur in water under irradiation. Usually they form complexes with water molecules and become hydrated electrons. They can also react with the bases of the nucleotides dGMP and dTMP in aqueous solution. This suggests they may also react with the bases of the DNA double helix, ultimately breaking molecular bonds and causing DNA damage. This mechanism is hypothesized to be a cause of radiation damage to DNA.\n"}
{"id": "16562840", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16562840", "title": "Regulation and prevalence of homeopathy", "text": "Regulation and prevalence of homeopathy\n\nHomeopathy is fairly common in some countries while being uncommon in others. In some countries, there are no specific legal regulations concerning the use of homeopathy, while in others, licenses or degrees in conventional medicine from accredited universities are required.\n\nHomeopathic preparations are not effective for treating any condition. Outside of the alternative medicine community, scientists have long considered homeopathy a sham or a pseudoscience, and the mainstream medical community regards it as quackery.\n\nRegulations vary in Europe depending on the country. In Austria and Germany, no specific regulations exist, while France and Denmark mandate licenses to diagnose any illness or dispense of any product whose purpose is to treat any illness. Some homeopathic treatment is covered by the national insurance of several European countries, including France, some parts of the United Kingdom, Denmark, and Luxembourg. In other countries, such as Belgium and the Czech Republic, homeopathy is not covered. In Austria, public insurance requires scientific proof of effectiveness in order to reimburse medical treatments, but exceptions are made for homeopathy. In 2004, Germany, which formerly offered homeopathy under its public health insurance scheme withdrew this privilege, with a few exceptions. In June 2005, the Swiss Government, after a 5-year trial, withdrew insurance coverage for homeopathy and four other alternative treatments, stating that they did not meet efficacy and cost-effectiveness criteria. However, following the result of a referendum in 2009 the five therapies were reinstated for a further 6-year trial period from 2012.\n\nIn 1992, the Council of the European Communities stated in the preamble to its directive that homeopathy was officially recognized in certain member states but only tolerated in others. In any case it was prescribed and used in all member states. To harmonize the market of homeopathic products, the council, by Directive 92/73/EEC directed the member states to implement certain changes in their national legislation. Directive 92/73/EEC was replaced by Directive 2001/83/EC on the Community code relating to medicinal products for human use.<ref name=\"2001/83/EC\"></ref>\n\nMember states are required to ensure that homeopathic products (for oral or external use) can be registered without proof of therapeutic efficacy, provided that there is a sufficient degree of dilution to guarantee the safety of the product; in particular, the product may not contain either more than one part per 10,000 of the mother tincture or more than 1/100th of the smallest dose used in mainstream medicine, with regard to active principles whose presence in a medicinal product results in the obligation to submit a doctor's prescription. In other words, the dilution must be at least D4/4X/C2, and even higher in special cases. Other homeopathic products can still be registered under the normal rules, and products such as Arnica D1 are legally available.\n\nThe labels of homeopathic products registered without proof of efficacy must include the words \"homeopathic medicinal product without approved therapeutic indications\" as well as \"a warning advising the user to consult a doctor if the symptoms persist during the use of the medicinal product\".\n\n, the exercise of homeopathy is in Belgium is reserved by law to only doctors, dentists and midwives, and should only be used for those indications for which the exercise is shown to be effective according to evidence-based medicine. The Belgian Council of Ministers agreed on July 12, 2013, with the draft royal decree as proposed by the Minister of Social Affairs and Public Health Laurette Onkelinx. The law follows the recommendations of the Belgian Health Care Knowledge Centre. who concluded on the basis of a systematic review of the scientific literature that there is no evidence that homeopathic treatments work better than a placebo. She advised against reimbursement by the compulsory health insurance and advised that only doctors would be allowed to practice homeopathy.\n\nIn Belgium, 81% of consultations in the area of alternative medicine involve homeopathy, either alone or in combination with other forms of alternative medicine. Belgium has three homeopathic organizations for medical doctors and pharmacists and two for patients.\n\nHomeopathy is the most popular form of alternative medicine in France. Its use rose from 16% of the population in 1982 to 29% in 1987 and 36% in 1992.\n\nIn Germany, the legislation for homeopathic remedies follows European Union (EU) regulations. Homeopathic remedies are subject to registration, but they need not be tested. However, homeopathic remedies that are less diluted than D4, or for which a danger of adverse effects exists, cannot be registered under this rule. They can be sold over-the-counter in pharmacies. Germany is the only member state of the EU in which homeopathic remedies based on minerals or plants, and produced only in very low quantities, do not need to be registered. In other member states only remedies individually prepared in a pharmacy are exempt.\n\nIn 2006, homeopathic remedies accounted for 3.16% of sold units in the pharmaceutical sector (1.08% of business volume); 0.48% of prescriptions covered by public health insurance were for homeopathic remedies. A 2008 telephone survey of German adults found that 11.5% had used homeopathy. Homeopathy accounts for 27.4% of patient contacts in the area of alternative medicine.\n\nA survey of more than 70,000 citizens showed that approximately 4.7 million people in Italy (8.2% of the population) used homeopathy from 1997 to 1999, including being given to 7.7% children under 14 years. Homeopathy use rose from 2.5% in 1991 to 8.2% in 1999, but, despite the increase these numbers are still considered to represent comparatively light use compared to other countries.\n\nIn 1991, 40% of general practitioners used homeopathy.\n\nRomania follows the general practices of EU regarding homeopathy. It is regulated by the National Agency of Drugs and Medical Devices (ANMDM) and is not permitted without a license. Most homeopathic drugs are sold over the counter. Approval of homeopathic drugs was simplified, considering there is no need for excessive testing for most of them.\n\nIn September 2011, after the National Board of Health and Welfare put a doctor on probation for recommending homeopathy to a patient, Sweden's Supreme Administrative Court ruled that \"doctors can recommend homeopathy\". In October 2013 a legal review conducted by the National Board of Health and Welfare on behalf of the government concluded that the use of homeopathy by licensed medical professionals is limited to patient-initiated last-resort treatments.\n\nWhile the practice of homeopathy in the United Kingdom (UK) is not regulated by law, homeopathic products sold as remedies or medicines are regulated by the Medicines and Healthcare products Regulatory Agency.\n\nIn Britain, homeopathy has been in a state of steady decline over recent years. The number of National Health Service (NHS) prescriptions for homeopathic remedies dropped by over 85% between 2000 and 2010 (from 134,000 to 16,359), with homeopathy accounting for only 0.001% of the total 2010 prescribing budget. The Tunbridge Wells Homeopathic Hospital, formerly one of four homeopathic hospitals operated by the NHS, was closed in 2009 following a drop in referrals and a review by the West Kent Primary Care Trust of funding of homeopathy. In September 2010, one of the three remaining NHS-funded homeopathic hospitals, the Royal London Homeopathic Hospital, was renamed as the Royal London Hospital for Integrated Medicine to more accurately reflect the nature of its work. A fifth homeopathic hospital run by the NHS, the Hahnemann Hospital in Liverpool, had been closed in 1976.\n\nIn 1991 up to 37% of general practitioners (GPs) used homeopathy, but a review carried out by West Kent NHS Primary Care Trust in 2007 found that less than 1% of registered patients were referred for homeopathic treatment, and that this was almost always at the patient's request rather than as the result of a clinical decision. In 2011 the British Homeopathic Association said that 400 GPs used homeopathy in their everyday practice. The British Homeopathic Dental Association (BHDA) claimed to have 69 dentists, while the British Association of Homeopathic Veterinary Surgeons had 36 vets listed as members. There are over 41,000 GPs and around 24,000 registered veterinary surgeons in the UK, and almost 23,000 dentists doing NHS work in England.\n\nIn 2009 there were approximately 2,000 homeopaths, who are not GPs, registered with various organisations. A systematic review of surveys, published in April 2013, concluded that homeopathy is used by UK medical professionals to a minor degree, and that on average referral rates are low.\n\nAround 2009, a few UK universities started closing or reviewing their courses on homeopathy and alternative medicine, after accusations that they were teaching pseudoscience. These courses had been attracting bad publicity and criticism for the universities teaching them. In May 2010 the NHS announced that junior doctors' training would no longer include placements at the Glasgow Homeopathic Hospital. In 2012 and 2013 there were only two universities left in the United Kingdom offering homeopathy degrees.\n\nIn February 2010 the Science and Technology Select Committee concluded that: \"the NHS should cease funding homeopathy. It also concludes that the Medicines and Healthcare products Regulatory Agency (MHRA) should not allow homeopathic product labels to make medical claims without evidence of efficacy. As they are not medicines, homeopathic products should no longer be licensed by the MHRA.\" Part of the conclusions state that \"When the NHS funds homeopathy, it endorses it. Since the NHS Constitution explicitly gives people the right to expect that decisions on the funding of drugs and treatments are made 'following a proper consideration of the evidence', patients may reasonably form the [misleading] view [inferred from the fact of any NHS financial support] that homeopathy is an evidence-based treatment.\" Since no evidence of benefit was found – other than the placebo effect – the report's recommendation was that \"The Government should stop allowing the funding of homeopathy on the NHS.\" The government stated that this decision would be left open to the Primary Care Trusts (PCTs), the smaller bodies in charge of regional NHS management, instead of being done by the government itself.\n\nIn June 2010, the British Medical Association voted three to one in favour of a motion that homeopathy should be banned from the NHS, and kept from being sold as medicine in pharmacies. In February 2011, out of 104 PCTs who responded to queries, 72 said they did not fund homeopathy, with 10 of these having stopped funding homeopathy in the last four years. By the 2011-2012 financial year the percentage of PCTs funding homeopathy had fallen to 15%.\n\nIn July 2013 the Advertising Standards Authority concluded that homeopathy sellers were engaging in false advertising regarding their claims of efficacy of homeopathic products and that at the same time they discouraged users from seeking essential treatments for conditions for which they were needed.\n\nIn 2016 it was estimated that NHS expenditure on homeopathy still amounted to about £5 million, in spite of repeated campaigns to remove homeopathy from the list of treatments paid for by the NHS. In July 2017, the NHS announced a policy of not funding homeopathic medicine because it is \"a misuse of resources\"; they also called on the UK Department of Health to add homeopathic remedies to the blacklist of forbidden prescription items, and the NHS ceased funding homeopathic remedies in November 2017. Following guidance from NHS England management that NHS spending on homeopathic treatments should cease, and that GPs should be advised to \"de-prescribe\" the treatments for existing patients, the British Homeopathic Association brought a lawsuit against the NHS. In 2018, the High Court ruled in favor of NHS England.\n\nState insurance funding of homeopathy and four other alternative therapies had been withdrawn after a review in 2005, and a 2009 referendum vote called for state backed health insurance to once more pay for these therapies. In 2012 the government reinstated them for a trial period until 2017, pending an independent investigation of the efficacy and cost-effectiveness of the therapies.\n\nThe rules for the registration of homeopathic remedies without a concrete field of application are more liberal in Switzerland than they are in member countries of the EU. For homeopathic medicines based on well-known low-risk substances, Swissmedic, the regulatory authority, offers inexpensive registration by means of a simplified electronic registration procedure.\n\nAccording to one 1996 study, approximately 4.4% of Australian adults have used homeopathic remedies at least once in their lives, including 1.2% that sought treatment exclusively from homeopathic practitioners.\n\nIn Canada, a study detailing the use of alternative medicines by children in Quebec found that 11% of the sampled 1,911 children used alternative medicines, and 25% of those who did use alternative medicines (less than 3% of all children sampled) used homeopathy. The study also pointed out that homeopathy is more commonly used in children in Canada than in adults, of whom only 19% of alternative medicine users used homeopathy. Physicians who choose to use alternative medicines such as homeopathy must follow guidelines set by their province's College of Physicians and Surgeons. Provincial health care generally does not cover homeopathy.\n\nThe Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act (FD&C Act) of 1938 recognized homeopathic preparations as drugs, but with significant exceptions. A principal sponsor of the Act was New York Senator and homeopathic physician Royal Copeland, who ensured that homeopathy's own \"Homœopathic Pharmacopœia of the United States\" (HPUS) be included, as it expressed the \"self-professed quality standards\" of the homeopathic profession. The finished Act thus created loopholes for the regulation of homeopathic drugs, and they are thus exempted from many of the rules regulating other drugs. The inclusion of HPUS in the Act has since been questioned by \"lawyers, doctors, homeopaths, historians, and Food and Drug Administration (FDA) officials.\"\n\nHomeopathic remedies are regulated by the Food and Drug Administration (FDA), which regulates manufacturing and other standards that are appropriate for homeopathic drugs, mainly through \"The Homœopathic Pharmacopœia of the United States\" (HPUS) as administered by the Homœopathic Pharmacopœia Convention of the United States and section 400.400 of the FDA \"Compliance Policy Guidance Manual\". Homeopathic drugs must be tested for scope of effect, and manufactured and labeled according to the Federal FD&C Act and the HPUS before they are considered official homeopathic drugs. The last bound paper edition of HPUS was published in 1979. It has been replaced by an online database available to subscribers. Official homeopathic drugs can be marketed according to their classification in the HPUS. They are not regulated under the Dietary Supplement Health and Education Act of 1994. Many homeopathic drugs can be sold \"over-the-counter\"; however, some are classified as prescription-only under all circumstances, and some are classified as prescription-only in various low dilutions. As with all drugs, the labeling requirements are important, as that is one of the primary ways the FDA can regulate drugs. Homeopathic pharmaceutical techniques are not technologically complicated, and the drugs are generally considered to be biologically safe because they are so diluted to the point where there are no molecules from the original solution left in a dose of the final remedy.\n\nThe FDA makes significant exemptions for homeopathic \"remedies\" as compared to other drugs. Here are a few:\n\nBy 2007, in the United States, $3.1 billion were spent on homeopathic medicine and 2.3% of the persons age 18 or over had consulted a practitioner that year. Homeopathy was first established in the United States by Hans Birch Gram in 1825 and rapidly gained popularity. The height of its influence was the end of the 19th century where hardly any city with over 50,000 people was without a homeopathic hospital. In 1890, there were 93 regular schools, 14 of them were fully homeopathic and 8 of them were eclectic. In 1900, there were 121 regular schools, with 22 of them being homeopathic and 10 eclectic. Teaching of homeopathy in the United States declined rapidly in the 20th century. The last purely homeopathic medical school closed in 1920, although homeopathic electives continued to be offered by the Hahnemann Medical School in Philadelphia until the 1940s.\n\nAccording to one study, in 1990, 0.7% of individuals used homeopathy in the year prior to being questioned; in 1997, 3.4% had used homeopathy at least once in the previous year. According to the same study, of those who used homeopathy, 31.7% had seen a homeopathic practitioner in the past year in 1990 and the number dropped to 16.5% by 1997.\n\nThe FDA held a hearing April 20 and 21, 2015, requesting public comment on regulation of homeopathic drugs. Citing the growth of sales of over-the-counter homeopathic medicines, $2.7 billion as of 2007, many labeled as \"natural, safe, and effective\", the FDA asked:\n\nOn 15 November 2016, FTC declared that homeopathic products cannot include claims of effectiveness without \"competent and reliable scientific evidence.\" If no such evidence exists, they must state this fact clearly on their labeling, and state that the product's claims are based only on 18th-century theories that have been discarded by modern science. The agency said failure to do so would be considered a violation of the FTC Act, a separate authorizing law from the FDA's. (The Wheeler–Lea Act of 1938 established FTC authority to regulate advertising claims of non-prescription drugs.)\n\nIn Mexico, homeopathy is currently integrated into the national healthcare system. In 1895, a presidential decree by Gral. Porfirio Díaz established the first homeopathic school and hospital as well as regulations specifying training requirements for homeopathic doctors. Of those individuals who use alternative medicines, over 26% use homeopathy.\n\nSome countries in South America, such as Argentina or Colombia, allow only professional doctors who are qualified and have graduated from a recognised medical school to practice homeopathy. Homeopathy has been regulated in other South American countries, such as Colombia, since the beginning of the 20th century. In Brazil, homeopathy is included in the national health system, and since 1991, physicians who want to practice homeopathy must complete 2,300 hours of education prior to receiving the proper licenses.\n\nIndia has the largest homeopathic infrastructure in the world, with low estimates at about 64,000, but going as high as 300,000 practising homeopaths. In addition, there are 180 colleges teaching courses, and 7500 government clinics and 307 hospitals which dispense homeopathic remedies. In China and Japan, homeopathy appears to be almost unknown.\n\nAsiatic countries many times were exposed to both homeopathic and non-homeopathic ideas about medicine through invading armies that had ties to Europe. In Malaysia, homeopathy was introduced during World War II by Indian military personnel that formed the bulk of the British army in Asia. The French army brought early modern medicine to Laos during their 1893 invasion. In China, Shanghai had one homeopathic hospital in 1911, and had four later in 1934. In this region, the European models of medicine complemented, but did not replace, the local traditional medicines.\n\nHomeopathy is becoming popular in the United Arab Emirates (UAE) and in Iran. The UAE Ministry of Health (MOH) recognizes and regulates the practice of homeopathy in a systematic way. Both medical doctors and lay practitioners can practise homeopathy but they all should pass MOH exams which cover both medical science and homeopathy. The Ministry of Health of Iran recognizes homeopathy as a legal alternative treatment. The Iranian Homeopathic Association, formed with the permission of the Ministry of the Interior and the Ministry of Health, is the reference association for providing standards of homeopathy. In Iran only medical doctors can practice homeopathy.\n\nHomoeopathy came to India in early 1810, with travelers, missionaries and military personnel from the West.\n\nHomeopathy research and education is looked after by the Ministry of Ayurveda, Yoga & Naturopathy, Unani, Siddha and Homoeopathy (AYUSH) formed on 9 November 2014, which also takes care of educational standards in the Indian Systems of Medicines and Homoeopathy colleges and promotes research in respective fields. Central Council for Research in Homoeopathy (CCRH) was established as an autonomous organization at New Delhi in 1978 by Govt. of India.\n\nHomeopathic education is regulated by Central Council of Homoeopathy (CCH), a statutory body under the Ministry of Health & Family Welfare, formed in 1973 through Act of Parliament is one of Professional Councils of University Grants Commission (UGC), which monitors all higher education across India. The CCH also regulates the practice of registered homeopaths.\n\nIn 2007 in the state of Uttar Pradesh (population 166 million in 2001) there were 27,548 registered homeopathic practitioners compared with 38,950 medical doctors (referred to as allopaths by those practicing alternative medicine), and 59,783 ayurvedic and 14,905 unani practitioners.\n\nThe number of homeopathic doctors in India increased from 105,000 in 1980 to 246,000 in 2010, and the number of homeopathic hospitals/dispensaries increased fourfold — from 1,686 in 1980 to about 7,000 in 2010.\n\nIn South Africa, homeopathy is currently regulated by the Allied Health Professions Act, 1982 (Act 63 of 1982) together with the Regulations to the said Act which was set up to provide for the establishment of a statutory body, the Allied Health Professions Council of South Africa (AHPCSA) to regulate the homeopathic profession, amongst ten others. The AHPCSA is one of five Statutory Health Professional Councils regulating health professions in South Africa. Any person wishing to practice Homeopathy in any way whatsover within the borders of South Africa must be registered with the AHPCSA. Registration is a legal requirement and under South African Law it is a criminal offense to practice homeopathy without registration.\nHomoeopathic registration in South Africa enjoys a standing, rights and privileges similar to that of conventional medical practitioners. This means that the legal scope of practice of a homeopathic practitioner is very similar to that of a conventional medical practitioner. The scope of practice includes also what would generally be applicable to Naturopathic practitioners in countries like the USA.\n\nA Homeopathic Practitioner may diagnose, in fact being a diagnostic primary health care profession, a Homeopathic Practitioner is legally compelled to make a diagnosis and provide the appropriate ICD-10 diagnostic codes. Homeopathic Practitioners also have to be licensed to compound Homeopathic medicine and to dispense any medicine falling within their scope of practice. Both conventional pharmacology and Homoeopharmaceutics are a legal training requirement.\n\nTraining therefore is based upon the medical curriculum with Homoeopathy as the primary therapeutic focus. From this perspective it is understandable that (as for Medical Practitioners where the requirement for registration is a MBChB or equivalent) in the case of Homeopathy the requirement for registration is a master's degree in Homeopathy MTech(Hom) or equivalent.\n\nHomoeopathic practitioners are trained diagnosticians, recognised as primary contact practitioners. It should be noted that, whereas the vast majority of international Homoeopathic schools offer skills-oriented Homoeopathic training, South Africa offers professional training at a level required for the practising of Homoeopathy as a primary contact health profession in accordance with the scope of practice of such a profession.\n\nAll private Homeopathic colleges were closed during the late 1970s by the South African Department of Health (read the History and Development of Homeopathic Education in South Africa). Existing practitioners were put into a closed register and in terms of the new legislation, and medical doctors were allowed to keep practicing homeopathy regardless of their knowledge of the subject. Nowadays, the only training recognised by the AHPCSA is a five-year full-time master's degree in Homoeopathy offered at the University of Johannesburg and Durban University of Technology. The M.Tech(Hom) consists of a five-year full-time medico-scientific course based on the medical curriculum with the core focus on classical, clinical, modern and conventional Homoeopathy, Homoeopharmaceutics and ending with a masters research dissertation. Graduates are registered as Homoeopathic practitioners only after having completed their post-graduate internship.\n\nThe practice of Homeopathy in South Africa requires medical training as prerequisite. Two routes thus exist for entrance into Homeopathy, either via the medically based homeopathic master's degree course (MTech-Hom) or once a medical practitioner is registered for independent practice, by way of the Post Graduate Diploma in Homeopathy offered by the South African Faculty of Homoeopathy (SAFH). Medical practitioners may register as Homoeopathic practitioners only after successful completion of the post graduate diploma. Once registered, homeopathic practitioners may do the prescribed Compounding and Dispensing course through the University of Pretoria and thereafter apply for a License to Compound and Dispense Homeopathic Medicine from the National Department of Health.\n22C. Licensing\n\n(1) Subject to the provisions of this section-\n\n(a) the Director-General may on application in the prescribed manner and on payment of the prescribed fee issue to a medical practitioner, dentist, practitioner, nurse or other person registered under the Health Professions Act, 1974, a licence to compound and dispense medicines, on the prescribed conditions;\n\n(5) No person shall compound or dispense a medicine unless he or she is authorised thereto in terms of the Pharmacy Act, 1974, is a veterinarian or is the holder of a licence as contemplated in subsection(1)(a).\nThe Medicines Control Council was set up in 1965, and it put all types of medicine under the same standards. It was replaced in 1998 by the South African Medicines and Medical Devices Regulatory Authority, which placed separate procedures for registering regular and alternative medicines, in order to regulate them better.\n\nBoth medically qualified practitioners and lay persons can practice homeopathy, with the Congress of Homoeopathic Medicine Practitioners having 30 medical doctors on its register in 2005. The All-Nigeria Homeopathic Medical Organization was founded in 1961, and the first homeopathic practitioner, I. Okogeri, began practice the following year. The Nigerian College of Homoeopathic Medicine, founded in 1972, is recognised by the government of the East Central State. The Nigerian Institute of Homeopathy has special consultative status with the United Nations Department of Economic and Social Affairs.\n\n"}
{"id": "34141635", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34141635", "title": "Robert Ader", "text": "Robert Ader\n\nRobert Ader (February 20, 1932 – December 20, 2011) was an American psychologist and academic who co-founded psychoneuroimmunology, a field of study which explores the links connecting the brain, behavior, and the immune system. Ader was a professor emeritus at the University of Rochester Medical Center.\n\nRobert Ader was born on February 20, 1932 in the Bronx, New York City. He was the older of two sons of Nathan and Mae Ader. After graduating from the Horace Mann School in New York City, he attended Tulane University in New Orleans. He graduated from Tulane University with a bachelor's degree in psychology in 1953. Ader then went on to earn a Ph.D. in psychology from Cornell University in 1957. After earning his Ph.D., he became a part-time instructor in the Department of Psychology at the University of Rochester and a part-time instructor in the Department of Psychiatry at the University of Rochester School of Medicine & Dentistry. He spent his time at the University of Rochester conducting psychobiological research on animals.\n\nRobert Ader spent his entire career at the University of Rochester, where he held many teaching and research positions. He was appointed the director of the Division of Behavioral and Psychosocial Medicine in the University of Rochester’s department of psychology and director of the Center for Psychoneuroimmunology Research. He retired in July 2011 as professor emeritus of psychosocial medicine. During his career, he authored and helped coauthor over two hundred journal articles and chapters in books. He also founded the journal Brain, Behavior, and Immunity which he served as editor-in-chief for many years. He also served on editorial boards for various psychobiological and behavioral journals. In addition, he served as president of the American Psychosomatic Society from 1979 to 1982, president of the International Society for Developmental Psychobiology from 1981 to 1982, president of the Academy of Behavioral Medicine Research from 1984 to 1985, and president and founder of the Psychoneuroimmunology Research Society. He also received an honorary M.D. degree from the University of Trondheim in Norway.\n\nOn beginning his career as a part-time instructor in the Department of Psychiatry at the University of Rochester, Robert Ader focused his research on behavioral conditioning and emotional responsiveness in rats. In 1974, he and a fellow researcher Nicholas Cohen were studying taste aversion in rats. The researchers gave the rats water sweetened with saccharin followed by an injection of cyclophosphamide, an immunosuppressant which caused nausea. Through classical conditioning, the rats learned to avoid water that contained saccharin. When Ader and Cohen began to force feed the rats the saccharin solution, they noticed that the rats began to die. They also found that the rate of death was directly related to how much saccharin solution the rats consumed.\n\nFrom these findings, they proposed a theory that the rats died because the taste of saccharin by itself was enough to elicit neural signals in the rats’ brain that suppressed their immune systems as if they had been overdosed with cyclophosphamide. Due to weakened immune systems, the rats contracted bacterial and viral infections that they were unable to fight off. This finding led to the belief that there are connections between the brain and the immune system which contradicted with the previous belief that the immune system was autonomous. This serendipitous discovery led Robert Ader to continue research in and develop the field of psychoneuroimmunology, a term that he created and first used in his 1980 presidential speech to the American Psychosomatic Society. A year later, he also used the newly created term as the title for his collection of essays that described the beginning of a new field of research.\n\nRobert Ader spent 54 years at the University of Rochester until his retirement in 2011. Ader died at the Highlands at Pittsford, New York, on December 20, 2011, at the age of 79. His death was caused by a long illness and complications due to a fracture he obtained from a fall. He was married to his wife of 54 years, Gayle Ader and they had four daughters.\n\n"}
{"id": "26307072", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26307072", "title": "Royal Australian and New Zealand College of Psychiatrists", "text": "Royal Australian and New Zealand College of Psychiatrists\n\nThe Royal Australian and New Zealand College of Psychiatrists (RANZCP) is the principal organisation representing the medical specialty of psychiatry in Australia and New Zealand and has responsibility for training, examining and awarding the qualification of Fellowship of the College (FRANZCP) to medical practitioners.\n\nThere are currently more than 3500 Fellows of the College who account for approximately 85 per cent of all practising psychiatrists in Australia and over 50 per cent of psychiatrists in New Zealand. Over 1000 trainees are undertaking basic and advanced training to become psychiatrists in both countries.\nThe Royal Australian and New Zealand College of Psychiatrists is a collegial community of medical specialists and trainees committed to the following core purposes: \n\nThe Royal Australian and New Zealand College of Psychiatrists's vision: \n\nA fellowship of psychiatrists leading the achievement of quality psychiatric care and mental health for our community.\n\nThe Australasian Association of Psychiatrists was formed on 9 October 1946. In 1962, the association resolved to \"take the necessary action forthwith to convert the association into a college\". and the Australian and New Zealand College of Psychiatrists was officially incorporated in Sydney on 28 October 1963. The Australasian Association of Psychiatrists was officially dissolved at a special general meeting in Melbourne on 12 April 1964. The first formal meeting of the council of the new College took place in Canberra on 25 October 1964. The meeting coincided with the College’s first annual congress.\n\nThe RANZCP was granted the Royal prefix with effect from May 1978. An extraordinary meeting of the College ratified the inclusion of \"Royal\" in the College’s name on 7 May 1978. \n\n\"Menders of the Mind\", published by Oxford University Press, commemorated the 50th anniversary of The Royal Australian and New Zealand College of Psychiatry.\n\nThe Royal Australian and New Zealand College of Psychiatrists is a company limited by guarantee.\n\nThe RANZCP is governed by its General Council, a democratically elected Board of Directors which oversees a wide range of issues concerning the affairs and activities of the College, and is its supreme policy-making body.\n\nThe College comprises Branches in each State and Territory of Australia, and New Zealand. Its governance structure also includes Boards, Faculties, Sections and Special Interest Groups. \n\nSpecialist aspects of psychiatry are represented by three Faculties and four Sections:\n\nThe RANZCP also has a Board of Education and a Board of Practice and Partnerships.\n\nThe RANZCP: \n\nThe RANZCP publishes: \n\nThe RANZCP holds several events, general psychiatry and mental health conferences.(http://www.ranzcp.org/resources/events.html)\n\nThe first step in becoming a psychiatrist is to undertake medical training at university and qualify as a doctor. The next step is to complete a 12-month period of intern training in a general hospital in order to become a fully registered medical practitioner and gain experience in specialist aspects of medicine and surgery. After this, interested doctors are eligible to apply for entry to the Psychiatric Training Programme, although some doctors choose to extend their general medical training before applying. Careful selection of psychiatric Trainees is conducted by a panel of psychiatrists who interview applicants in each Australian State and in New Zealand. Applicants must also provide extensive references regarding their work performance and suitability for psychiatric training. Those applicants who successfully progress through this process and satisfy all the criteria will be offered a place on the Training Programme.\n\nTraining requires mandatory supervision by experienced, qualified psychiatrists and is undertaken in approved training hospitals/services. In Australia and New Zealand, specialist postgraduate psychiatric training is conducted by the RANZCP. Training takes a minimum of five years to complete, during which time trainees work as registrars under supervision in hospitals and community clinics. They gain wide experience in dealing with the full range of psychiatric problems, including those of children and families, adults and the elderly.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "40914116", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40914116", "title": "Satiety value", "text": "Satiety value\n\nSatiety value, is the degree at which food gives a human the sense of food gratification, the exact contrast feeling of hunger. The concept of the Satiety Value and Satiety Index was developed by an Australian researcher and doctor, Susanna Holt. Highest satiety value is expected when the food that remains in the stomach for a longer period produces greatest functional activity of the organ Limiting the food intake after reaching the satiety value helps reduce obesity problems\n\nFoods with great satiety value:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "22780761", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22780761", "title": "Scientific Computing and Imaging Institute", "text": "Scientific Computing and Imaging Institute\n\nThe Scientific Computing and Imaging (SCI) Institute is a permanent research institute at the University of Utah that focuses on the development of new scientific computing and visualization techniques, tools, and systems with primary applications to biomedical engineering. The SCI Institute is noted worldwide in the visualization community for contributions by faculty, alumni, and staff. Faculty are associated primarily with the School of Computing, Department of Bioengineering, Department of Mathematics, and Department of Electrical and Computer Engineering, with auxiliary faculty in the Medical School and School of Architecture.\n\nThe Scientific Computing and Imaging Institute started in 1992 as a research group in the University of Utah School of Computing by Chris Johnson and Rob MacLeod. In 1994 this group became the Center for Scientific Computing and Imaging, and in 2000 the name was changed to the Scientific Computing and Imaging (SCI) Institute. In 2007, the SCI Institute was awarded funding from USTAR to recruit more faculty in medical imaging technology. The SCI Institute was recognized as an NVIDIA CUDA Center of Excellence in 2008. In 2011, USTAR funding allowed faculty recruitment for genomic signal processing and information visualization. in 2014, Intel partnered with the SCI Institute to form the Intel Parallel Computing Center for Scientific Rendering to research and develop large scale and in situ visualization techniques for Intel hardware.\n\nThe overarching research objective of the Scientific Computing and Imaging Institute is to conduct application-driven research in the creation of new scientific computing techniques, tools, and systems. Given the proximity and availability of research conducted at the University of Utah School of Medicine, a main application focus is medicine. SCI Institute researchers also apply computational techniques to scientific and engineering sub-specialties, such as fluid dynamics, biomechanics, electrophysiology, bioelectric fields, scientific visualization, parallel computing, inverse problems, and neuroimaging.\n\nThe SCI Institute releases open source software packages for many of the projects developed by researchers for use by the scientific visualization and medical imaging communities. All projects are released under the MIT software license. Notable projects released by SCI include:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "38720294", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38720294", "title": "Sepsis Six", "text": "Sepsis Six\n\nThe Sepsis Six is the name given to a bundle of medical therapies designed to reduce mortality in patients with sepsis. \n\nDrawn from international guidelines that emerged out of the Surviving Sepsis Campaign the Sepsis Six was developed by The UK Sepsis Trust. (Daniels, Nutbeam, Laver) in 2006 as a practical tool to help healthcare professionals deliver the basics of care rapidly and reliably.\n\nIn 2011, The UK Sepsis Trust published evidence that use of the Sepsis Six was linked to a 50% reduction in mortality, a decreased length of stay in hospital, and fewer intensive care days. – findings that have since been replicated around the world.\n\nThe Sepsis Six consists of three diagnostic and three therapeutic steps – all to be delivered within one hour of the initial diagnosis of sepsis:\n"}
{"id": "18416376", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18416376", "title": "Silt fence", "text": "Silt fence\n\nA silt fence, sometimes (misleadingly) called a \"filter fence,\" is a temporary sediment control device used on construction sites to protect water quality in nearby streams, rivers, lakes and seas from sediment (loose soil) in stormwater runoff. Silt fences are widely used on construction sites in North America and elsewhere, due to their low cost and simple design. However, their effectiveness in controlling sediment can be limited, due to problems with poor installation, proper placement, and/or inadequate maintenance.\n\nSilt fences are often perimeter controls, typically used in combination with sediment basins and sediment traps, as well as erosion controls, which are designed to retain sediment in place where soil is being disturbed by construction processes (i.e., land grading and other earthworks).\n\nA typical fence consists of a piece of synthetic filter fabric (also called a geotextile) stretched between a series of wooden or metal fence stakes along a horizontal contour level. The stakes are installed on the downhill side of the fence, and the bottom edge of the fabric can be trenched into the soil and backfilled on the uphill side, although it is quite difficult to move the trenched \"spoil\" from the downside to the upside of the trench. The design/placement of the silt fence should create a pooling of runoff, which then allows sedimentation to occur. Water can seep through the silt fence fabric, but the fabric often becomes \"blocked off\" with fine soil particles (all sediment-retention devices have this challenge, and none of them \"filter\" storm water for very long). A few hours after a storm event, the fabric can be \"disturbed\" in order to dislodge the fines, and allow clean water to flow through. Depending on the protected watershed and erosion, larger soil particles will settle out, ultimately filling the silt fence to the top of the structure; requiring another silt fence above or below it (creating a new ponding area), or for the silt fence to be removed, the sediment removed or spread out, and a new fence installed. The fence is not designed to concentrate or channel stormwater. The fence is installed on a site before soil disturbance begins, and is placed down-slope from the disturbance area.\n\nSediment is captured by silt fences primarily through ponding of water and settling, rather than filtration by the fabric. Sand and silt tends to clog the fabric, and then the sediments settle in the temporary pond. \n\nSome government jurisdictions in the United States recommend or require the use of a reinforced fence, sometimes called a \"super\" silt fence or an enhanced silt fence, on some construction sites. This design uses filter fabric reinforced by a wire mesh or chain link fence. The metal backing gives the fence increased strength to resist the weight of soil and water which may be trapped by the fence in a large drainage area, and discourages construction site operators from driving vehicles over the fence. However, an improper installation of a super silt fence can create an inadvertent sediment basin when the filter fabric becomes clogged. This typically causes flooding and increased downstream pollution. Most super silt fence specifications are out-dated, requiring the trenching installation method, which has been shown to be highly susceptible to \"washing out\" under the fabric due to improper back-filling and inadequate compaction.\nSome state agencies recommend an installation technique called \"static slicing\" as an improved method for ensuring effectiveness and longevity of a silt fence system on a construction site. The technique involves inserting a narrow blade into the soil with a wedge-type point on its tip to slightly disrupt the soil upward, while simultaneously inserting the silt fence fabric into the slot with a moving pivot, while the machine is moving forward. This step is followed by mechanical soil compaction, setting of fence posts, and attaching the fabric.\n\nSilt fence fabrics (geotextiles) tested in laboratory settings have shown to be effective at trapping sediment particles. Although there have been few field tests of silt fences installed at construction sites, these tests have shown generally poor results. (Effectiveness testing involved measurements for both total suspended solids and turbidity.) Other studies and articles about silt fence usage and practice document problems with installation and maintenance, implying poor performance.\n\nSince 1998, static slicing the material into the ground has proven to be the most efficient and most effective installation method because slicing maintains the soil on both sides of the fence, and is conducive to proper compaction—which is critical to performance, as well. In 2000 the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) co-sponsored silt fence efficacy field research through its Environmental Technology Verification Program, and in general, the report found the static slicing method to be highly effective, and efficient. Silt fence effectiveness is best determined by how many hundreds of pounds of sediment are contained behind a given silt fence after a storm event, and not turbidity, etc. as sediment-retention is the end goal, and not a water-quality measurement used in erosion control, for instance.\nSilt fences may perform poorly for a variety of reasons, including improper location (e.g. placing fence where it will not pond runoff water), improper installation (e.g. failure to adequately embed and backfill the lower edge of fabric in the soil) and lack of maintenance—fabric falling off of the posts, or posts knocked down. A silt fence top-full of sediment may need maintenance/replacement, but it is a huge success. The fabric may become damaged with holes and tears if construction materials are stored next to or on top of the fence. During various phases of construction at a site, a silt fence may be removed relocated and reinstalled multiple times. It may be difficult to maintain effectiveness of a silt fence under such operating conditions. Location of fences in areas with high flows may lead to fence failures when the installation is not adequately back-filled and properly compacted, and/or the post-spacing is inadequate.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "45162916", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45162916", "title": "Simon Howard", "text": "Simon Howard\n\nSimon John Howard is a public health physician working in the North East of England. He has authored or co-authored a number of articles on public health in medical journals, and served as Public Health Registrar to Chief Medical Officer Sally Davies from 2013-2014, acting as Editor-in-Chief of the \"2012 Annual Report of the Chief Medical Officer.\"\n\nHoward qualified as a medical doctor with the degree MBBS from Newcastle University in 2008. He was awarded an MSc in Public Health and Health Services Research from Newcastle University in 2011.\n\nHe has authored and co-authored articles which criticise current nutritional labelling practices in the UK, and on topics related to respiratory, and ophthalmic health. From 2013-2014, Howard served as Public Health Registrar to Chief Medical Officer Sally Davies, and acted as Editor-in-Chief of the \"2012 Annual Report of the Chief Medical Officer.\" He has contributed to or co-authored a number of other works with Davies.\n\nIn 2012, Howard co-wrote a study in the \"British Medical Journal\" that compared the nutritional content of television chefs' recipes and supermarket meals. The study found that the chefs' meals were \"less healthy\" than ready-made supermarket meals. The article received considerable coverage in the news media, while some scholars criticised the assumption that \"health ought to prominently inform TV cooking.\"\n\nIn 2010, Howard re-published a compilation of his political blog posts in a book titled \"Instant Opinion\".\n\n"}
{"id": "2849782", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2849782", "title": "Test data exclusivity", "text": "Test data exclusivity\n\nTest data exclusivity refers to protection of clinical trial data required to be submitted to a regulatory agency to prove safety and efficacy of a new drug, and prevention of generic drug manufacturers from relying on this data in their own applications. It provides a form of market exclusivity outside that provided by patent rights.\n\nPharmaceutical companies argue that since test data is so expensive to produce, it is an unfair advantage to let other companies rely on that data without cost. Critics charge that it can act as a restriction to producing a generic copy; that although it would not raise prices of drugs, it would prevent prices from falling due to generic competition; and make it more costly for the poor to gain access to life-saving drugs (e.g. anti-HIV & anti-malarial medications.) Developed countries with innovative pharmaceutical industries (including the United States) have sought data exclusivity provisions in Free Trade Agreements with their trading partners, e.g. DR-CAFTA which includes such a provision.\n\nAccording to the European Commission:\n\nOne critical issue in this regard is the issue of data exclusivity for pioneer drug companies (pharmaceutical R&D organizations). From the standpoint of economics, industries where the R&D process is costly and risky need longer exclusivity periods to realize innovation benefits, compared to those industries where innovation is easier and less costly. \n\nSome academics allege that pharmaceutical data exclusivity protection unfairly restricts the rapid public dispersal of knowledge that is supposed to be the trade-off for a grant of a patent or intellectual monopoly privilege. They allege that data exclusivity is really a form of evergreening pharmaceutical patent protection that may even restrict the capacity of governments to benefit from the granting of a compulsory license on the patents on a medicine, since the data monopoly will still prevent the marketing of generic products, even though the patent licenses have been granted by the government or a court.\n\nA separate criticism of data exclusivity concerns medical and research ethics. Specifically, it is considered unethical under the Declaration of Helsinki to undertake duplicative clinical trials on human subjects. Similar concerns have been raised in the context of test data protection for certain agricultural or cosmetic products, leading in some countries to proposals for cost sharing rather than exclusive rights as the form of test data protection.\n\n"}
{"id": "2513680", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2513680", "title": "WHO disease staging system for HIV infection and disease", "text": "WHO disease staging system for HIV infection and disease\n\nWHO Disease Staging System for HIV Infection and Disease was first produced in 1990 by the World Health Organization and updated in September 2005. It is an approach for use in resource limited settings and is widely used in Africa and Asia and has been a useful research tool in studies of progression to symptomatic HIV disease. Most of these conditions are opportunistic infections that can be easily treated in healthy people. The staging system is different for adults and adolescents and children.\n\nStage I: HIV disease is asymptomatic and not categorized as AIDS.\n\nStage II: include minor mucocutaneous manifestations and recurrent upper respiratory tract infections.\n\nStage III: includes unexplained chronic diarrhea for longer than a month, severe bacterial infections and pulmonary tuberculosis.\n\nStage IV: includes toxoplasmosis of the brain, candidiasis of the esophagus, trachea, bronchi or lungs and Kaposi's sarcoma; these diseases are used as indicators of AIDS.\n"}
{"id": "17641767", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17641767", "title": "Water supply and sanitation in Benin", "text": "Water supply and sanitation in Benin\n\nDrinking water supply and sanitation in Benin has been subject to considerable progress since the 1990s, in particular in rural areas, where coverage is higher than in many other African countries, and almost all development partners follow a national demand-responsive strategy, which has been adopted in 1992. New strategies to increase water supply in rural and urban areas have been adopted in 2005 and 2006. Tariffs in urban and rural areas are usually high enough to cover the costs for operation and maintenance.\n\nHowever, challenges remain. A coherent institutional framework has been developed for rural areas and projects have been implemented with strong help by external donors. Responsibilities in water supply have been defined in a national strategy in 2007 and the national utility SONEB receives significant support in terms of investment and technical assistance. Sanitation receives less attention. Wastewater treatment hardly exists.\n\nIn order to reach the Millennium Development Goals (MDGs) concerning water and sanitation, the Ministry of Economic and Financial Development estimates that US$80 million and US$22 million, respectively are needed per year from 2006 to 2015. For the sake of comparison, less than US$ 10m per year have been invested in water supply and sanitation in rural areas where 55% of the population of Benin lives. No figures are available on actual investments in urban areas. Most likely, investments would have to increase manifold in order to reach the MDGs.\n\nIn 2015, in Benin 78% of the population had access to \"improved\" water, 85% and 72%, in urban and rural areas, respectively. In 2015, there were still around 2 million lacking access to \"improved\" water. Regarding sanitation, 20% of the population had access to \"improved\" sanitation, 36% and 7%, in urban and rural areas, respectively.\n\nAccording to the Joint Monitoring Program of the World Health Organization and UNICEF, three quarters of the Beninese population had access to an improved water source in 2008, whereas 12% had access to improved sanitation. The share rose from 63% concerning water and from 5% concerning sanitation in 1990. Coverage in urban areas is considerably higher than in rural areas.\n\nSignificant differences in water supply coverage were found among regions. The situation depends on the accessibility to ground water, the geographic orientation of donor investment programs and the effective demand of the inhabitants of a community or region. In urban areas, lack of access to safe water is mostly concentrated in the outskirts of cities.\n\nThe national government uses another definition of access, under which water supply coverage was 50% in urban and peri-urban areas and 41% in rural and semi-urban areas in 2005. The annual water sector review for the financial year 2009 indicated 55,1% access for rural and 57% for urban areas. In order to reach the MDGs, the national government's strategy is to increase coverage to 75% in urban and peri-urban areas and 67.5% in rural and semi-urban areas by 2015. Concerning sanitation, the Ministry of Economic and Financial Development reported that in 2003 67% of the population did not have adequate facilities for the disposal of excrements. The annual sector review indicated an access of households to sanitation facilities of 39,4% and 71,6%, of school children, in 2009.\n\nLike in other countries, the Beninese water supply sector is divided into an urban and a rural sector. However, in the documents rural areas include semi-urban areas and urban areas include peri-urban areas. In 2002, rural and semi-urban areas were defined as settlements with less than 10,000 inhabitants and 22 secondary towns with more than 10,000 inhabitants, whereas the remaining areas were called urban and peri-urban.\n\nSubstantial investments in the Greater Cotonou Area have not been effected since 1991. The fast-growing water demand (6 – 8% p.a.) is exceeding the actual design capacity of the well fields, two treatment plants and the distribution system. This results in low water pressure, which often limits the consumption in peripheral areas. Water supply in Cotonou is generally available for 24 hours per day, the system, however is badly affected by power cuts of the public energy utility (SBEE). About 50% of the power demand of pump sets can be provided through generator sets to fill the pipeline system and its water towers. Frequent power failures reduce the reliability of the system. However, substantial extension works are financed and programmed since 2007/2008 with support of major donors (West African Development Bank, European Investment Bank, KfW Entwicklungsbank, Netherlands). Implementation is ongoing (see below).\n\nThere has been no broad assessment about water quality in Benin. Under the framework of a study which analyzed water supply in peri-urban areas of Cotonou, water samples were collected from water kiosks, a water seller, a communal well and Lake Nokoue in the peri-urban Cotonouan districts of Ladji and Vossa. The study concludes that the samples from the water kiosks and the water seller were of good quality. Private water sellers connected to the SONEB utility network are widespread in urban areas, serving households not yet connected to the grid. The Ministry in charge of water and SONEB have fixed a special ‘pro-poor’ tariff for water resale to regulate this phenomenon, in July 2009. Implementation is ongoing in cooperation with local government.\n\nSaltwater intrusion has been reported close to Cotonou, where drinking water is withdrawn.\n\nWastewater treatment is extremely rare in Benin. In most cases, wastewater is not even disposed appropriately. According to a 2001 national health survey, in the cities of Cotonou, Parakou and Porto-Novo, only two out of 1,000 households dispose their wastewater in a correct way, while most of them discharge it directly into the nature or drains. This leads to pollution and can cause water-borne diseases like malaria and typhoid fever.\n\nAccording to a 2004 article, Cotonou is the only town in Benin which has a functioning wastewater treatment plant, where sludge from septic tanks and latrines is treated. Another article reports that the treatment plant, operated by the private Industrial Society of Urban Equipment and Sanitation (SIBEAU) treats about 240–300 m³ per day. The company charges tariffs for treating the sludge from septic tank truckers. The wastewater receives primary and secondary treatment and is afterwards dumped into the ocean. In addition, some local institutions like a hospital and hotels operate their own water treatment facilities.\n\nIt is estimated that the available water resources in Benin are sufficient to meet the current and future demand, even if agricultural and industrial consumption are included. The current water use is about 1% of the available resources. The total amount of renewable water resources in the country is estimated at 3,954 m³ per person and year, an amount whereby water shortages only occur irregularly or locally according to a definition of Falkenmark and Widstrand. 2000 km² or 1.8% of the total surface area of Benin (112,620 km²) is covered by water. Rainfall averages 1,039 mm per year, but varies considerably among region and season.\n\nA study published in 2005 indicates an average consumption of 17 liters per capita and day (l/c/d) in rural areas and 29 l/c/d in cities. The authors explain the very low water use in rural areas with a lack of water sources, long distances from villages to wells and limited resources in dry seasons. In the outskirts of the town areas, they found situations similar to those in rural areas. They expect an increasing water demand due to urbanization and increasing living standards. The Food and Agriculture Organization (FAO) of the United Nations indicates that in 2001, 32% of the total water withdrawal was used for domestic purposes, while 45% was used for agriculture and 23% by the industry.\n\nRural areas: Under the framework of the United Nations International Drinking Water Supply and Sanitation Decade (1981–1990), Benin launched a campaign and installed 5,350 water points. The result of these efforts revealed some weaknesses within the strategy, i.e. (i) lack of user participation in the installation of water points; (ii) lack of health and hygiene education; (iii) lack of investments in hygiene and sanitation; (iv) lack of community inclusion in the administration and operation of the water points; and (v) poor rate of functioning water points.\n\nSince these efforts and investments in the sector had proved to be little sustainable, a new demand-responsive strategy for rural water supply and sanitation was prepared with the help of the World Bank and adopted in 1992. The strategy is based on the four principles of \nFurthermore, the strategy contains two more basic principles, which are not explicitly mentioned as such:\nThe new strategy has since then been implemented through a number of projects called Assistance Program for the Development of the Water supply and Sanitation sector in Rural areas (PADEAR) with the strong help of several development partners. The strategy was revised in 2003 in view of a new institutional framework, the national poverty reduction strategy and the MDGs, support of delegation of works and an analysis of the time which had passed since the application of the strategy.\n\nIn 1995, a national sanitation policy was adopted. Its objectives were similar to those of the 1992 strategy for rural water supply and sanitation.\n\nUrban and peri-urban areas: Until 2002, water and electricity were both supplied by the Beninese Society of Electricity and Water (SBEE). Afterwards, much of the electricity sector has been privatized, whereas the urban water sector remained public and has been provided by the National Water Society of Benin (SONEB).\n\nIn both urban and rural areas new strategies have been adopted in 2005 and 2006 with the objective to reach the MDGs concerning water supply by 2015.\n\nRural and semi-urban areas: The new strategy for the period from 2005 to 2015 follows the national strategy of 1992 and aims to reach the MDGs. Its principles are similar to those of the 1992 strategy, but adapted to the modified political and institutional frameworks. Like the former one, the strategy is based on a demand-responsive approach and has five principles:\n\nIn May 2004, the call for a Water Initiative for semi-urban areas which are not covered by SONEB emerged. The initiative, which has not yet been implemented in 2006 aims to reach the MDGs in these areas through the construction of rural water supply schemes in about 500 towns by 2015.\n\nUrban and peri-urban areas: The 2006 to 2015 strategy for urban water supply, besides reaching the MDGs by 2015 has the objectives to facilitate the financial viability of public water supply and provide access for poorer households. The strategy is based on four principles:\n\nConcerning sanitation, the National Hygiene and Basic Sanitation Program covers the period from 2004 to 2008. It is divided into three sub-programs:\n\nThe national Ministry of Energy and Water sets general water sector policies and supervises their application. National sanitation policies are defined by the Hygiene and Basic Sanitation Authority (DHAB) under the Ministry of Health.\n\nBenin is currently in the process of implementing a decentralization policy, under which water supply and sanitation becomes responsibility of the 77 municipalities, which count between 25,000 and 600,000 inhabitants. Each municipality is headed by an elected council and a mayor. According to Law No. 97-029 of 1999 on the organization of municipalities, they have full responsibility to provide drinking water and sanitation. The law also provides for the municipalities' right to request technical assistance from the national level or the private sector. Furthermore, the national government is responsible for the transfer of the necessary financial resources for the execution of the tasks to the municipalities.\n\nIn rural and semi-urban areas, the General Water Authority (DGEau) under the Ministry of Energy and Water is expected to implement the national policies, to coordinate water use for different purposes and to promote Integrated Water Resources Management. In addition, DGEau has the task to set up and maintain a database on water resources and their mobilization. In order to ensure that the national policies are implemented at the local level, DGEau is represented by 11 Water Service divisions and uses six Department divisions of the Ministry of Energy and Water. Under the framework of decentralization, responsibilities were shifted from DGEau to its local divisions.\n\nThere is no independent agency for economic regulation of the water and sanitation sector. The national 2007 Growth Strategy for Poverty Reduction calls for the establishment of such an authority.\n\nSince the decentralization process, the municipalities and their established Water User Associations became responsible for operation and maintenance of water supply and sanitation. In rural and semi-urban areas, they receive support by DGEau. In urban and peri-urban areas, the National Water Society of Benin (SONEB) has been assigned to assure urban water supply and waste water treatment on behalf of local authorities SONEB supplied 69 urban districts in 2007. Eighty percent of the urban water supply demand is concentrated in Cotonou, Porto Novo, Parakou and Abomey/Bohicon. Like DGEau, SONEB is placed under the Ministry of Energy and Water. SONEB is a public company, but autonomous in decision-making and financial administration.\n\nConcerning sanitation, the Hygiene and Basic Sanitation Authority provides sanitation in public places like schools and health centers. The authority shares responsibility for sanitation with SONEB, communities and departments of the Ministry of Environment, Housing and Urbanism and the Ministry of Public Works and Transportation.\n\nPrivate sector: In rural areas, private sector participation is supported under the PADEAR strategy. For instance, the private drilling companies FORAG and FORATECH install about 1,000 new water points per year and private operators are also involved in maintenance activities. Besides this, private planning offices prepare feasibility studies and supervise the construction of facilities. Local artisans take over odd jobs. In urban areas, no private participation of SONEB is anticipated. However, in Cotonou the private company SIBEAU operates the only wastewater treatment plant in the country.\n\nNon-governmental organizations: Many non-governmental organizations (NGOs) are active in Benin. They usually inform, advise and support the communities concerning their water supply responsibilities.\n\nEconomic efficiency of water supply can be measured through several indicators. In Benin however, access to the respective data, in the case that they exist, is difficult. However, a frame contract (contrat plan) for the period 2008–2010 between SONEB and the Ministry in charge of water has been signed January 2008. It contains an indicator set allowing to measure achievements of objectives of the urban water strategy adopted in 2007. SONEB documents these achievements in the yearly sector review.\n\nOne established indicator is the share of non-revenue water (NRW), water which is produced but not billed due to several reasons like leakage and illegal connections. According to the Beninese Ministry of Economic and Financial Development, NRW of SONEB was 21% in 2004. Although there is no agreement on appropriate levels of NRW among professionals, Tynan and Kingdom propose a best practice target of 23% in developing countries.<ref name=\"Tynan/Kingdom\">The study uses data from 246 water utilities, of which half are in 44 developing countries. The utilities range from small ones, which serve fewer than 125,000 people to large ones, serving more than 500,000. All regions and within countries, all income levels are included. In each of the five categories (NRW, labor productivity, service coverage, water prices and connection costs and continuity of service), at least 30 utilities from developing countries and 30 from developed countries are included. The best practice targets for developing countries are based on the performance of the top 25 utilities of developing country utilities. The study uses data from the World Bank's Water and Sanitation Utilities database and the Asian Development Bank; see: </ref> According to the figures of the ministry, SONEB complies with that target.\n\nUrban and peri-urban areas A tariff reform has been adopted in July 2009, based on a tariff study conducted in 2006. A preferential connection fee has been fixed at 50.000 CFA in the tariff system. There is no distinction between the different types of consumers (residential, commercial, industrial), but two block tariffs according to the amount of water consumption.\n\nBefore the tariff reform, US$0.41 per m³ without additional taxes was charged for the first five m³. For consumption exceeding five m³, the tariff was US$1.03 including taxes per m³. The tariff structure had been active since 2002. In addition, a fixed tariff of US$0.99 for the maintenance of a water meter is added. According to a thesis, tariffs cover most of the capital costs and all operating costs. In 2004, the revenue generated by water sales was US$16.7 million.\n\nRural and semi-urban areas Where AUE operate and maintain the services, they are expected to bear the costs of these tasks. According to the Danish International Development Agency (DANIDA), the sale of water can be very profitable and cover operation and maintenance costs. Water consumption is usually charged in the case of existing rural water supply schemes. Charging tariffs is less common if wells or hand pumps are used. A 2004 World Bank study assumes an average rural water tariff of US$1.04 (500 CFA) per m³ and equally concludes that this tariff usually covers operation and maintenance costs, including replacement. The study also mentions that in most cases the potable water is only used for cooking and drinking and alternate sources are used for other needs. It assumes an average consumption of only 5 l/p/d from improved sources. Consequently, water tariffs are affordable for most households.\n\nSubstantial Investments in the country's water sector have been made since the 1980s. Investments in sanitation have started much later and have been lower. Despite this, there has been no review of sector investments until 2004.\n\nSince 2002, the financial resources allocated to the Ministry of Energy and Water follow a three-year program budget, focusing on a unification of all funding (operational and investment costs) and a better replicability of the expenditures and its impacts.\n\nIt is difficult to draw up a comprehensive analysis of public expenditures in the water sector. The following figures derive from a 2004 World Bank study, which uses several budgetary documents. Since only the expenditure of the DGEau is shown, investment in urban areas is not included.\n\nThe share of domestic funding increased from 9% in 1997 to 25% in 2002. However, the sector still depends strongly on external funding. Overall expenditure decreased from US$11.87 million in 1997 to US$8.57 million in 2002. The share of total government spending to the sector varied between 1.2 and 3.5%.\n\nThe Ministry of Economic and Financial Development reported in 2006 that there is no appropriate mechanism for the development of the urban water supply. External support is indispensable for the implementation of investment programs.\n\nIn 2009, the Ministry of Energy and Water and SONEB reported that corruption is a huge threat for the sector development. Financial resources often disappear into the pockets of politicians and contractors. Construction contracts often include inflated costs. Especially in rural areas, bribery of local officials is a common practice to ensure water supply.\n\nRural and semi-urban areas The necessary financial resources to reach the MDGs in rural and semi-urban areas from 2006 to 2015 have been estimated to about US$396 million (189 billion CFA) or US$40 million per year. The Ministry of Economic and Financial Development concludes that the MDGs will not be achieved if the expenditures for the sector continue in the same amounts as in the years 2002 to 2005. However, if all available resources are mobilized, Benin will be able to reach the MDGs concerning rural water supply.\n\nUrban and peri-urban areas The required financial resources to finance the achievement of the MDGs in urban and peri-urban areas have been estimated to be about US$400 million (191 billion CFA) or US$40 million per year from 2006 to 2015.\nThe implementation of the 2006-2015 strategy to reach the MDGs in urban areas is expected to be financed by the national state, municipalities, development partners, financial institutions and SONEB. For small and medium water systems, financing will be provided by the municipalities, by the central state through public budgets, and by development \npartners. Large systems will be financed by the national state, municipalities, development banks and development agencies through credits and loans. Peri-urban areas and people with lower incomes will receive subsidies and donations with the help of development partners.\n\nSONEB will finance investments for maintenance and rehabilitation of electromechanical installations with its own financial resources. Therefore, it is planned to improve the self-financing of SONEB through an appropriate tariff system and other measures.\n\nSanitation In order to achieve the MDGs concerning sanitation, the Ministry of Economic and Financial Development estimates that US$218 million (104 billion CFA) or US$22 million per year will be needed from 2006 to 2015.\n\nA key challenge faced by water authorities is how to manage their service delivery obligations to rural communities. Even in decentralized sectors the water authorities may find it hard to provide services to remote rural communities. Benin decentralized its water services in 1999 and ownership of assets and responsibility for water provision passed to the “communes” (districts). The Direction Generale D’Eau has developed a Guide for communes in developing water services for rural areas and a suite of contractual and bidding documents to be used in the different contexts discussed in this guide. The legal framework prescribes that where there is a water post with or without network connected then the communes should delegate the provision of water to a water service provider or to the water users association.\n\nThe 1992 demand-responsive strategy for rural water supply and sanitation (see above) has been implemented since 1993 with the strong help of external development partners in several departments. The different programs are summarized under the Assistance Program for the Development of the Water supply and Sanitation sector in Rural areas (PADEAR).\n\nDANIDA was the first development partner, which together with the World Bank financed the implementation of the 1992 strategy in the departments of Zou and Atlantique in 1993. Five years later, PADEAR financed by DANIDA started in the departments of Alibori and Borgou.\n\nThe Second Phase of the Water and Sanitation Sector Programme Support began in 2005 and was expected to end in 2010. The objective of the program is to reduce poverty in rural and semi-urban areas through improved water supply coverage, promotion of hygiene and basic sanitation and sustainable water resources use. The program consists of the five components sector budget support, institutional support, water supply and hygiene education, sanitation and support to the private sector. The total budget is about US$65 million (DKK 306.4 million).\n\nThe French Development Agency (AFD) contributes about USD22 million (EUR13.8 million) to the program budget 2005-2008, which aims to fight poverty and to ensure improved access to water supply and sanitation. Besides a contribution to the program budget of the Collines Department, the program support includes a component to support the methodology of the program budgets for objectives (BPO) and decentralization, among others, and another component to assist the definition of a sustainable administration policy of rural water supply schemes.\n\nThe German development partners Deutsche Gesellschaft für Technische Zusammenarbeit (GTZ) and German Development Bank (KfW) financed PADEAR in the departments of Oueme and Mono in 1996. Since 2001, they also financed PADEAR in five municipalities of the Atakora Department and two municipalities of the Donga Department. In addition, the German development cooperation supports urban water supply through SONEB and its regional branches.\n\nThanks to the Netherlands' support, more than 300,000 people were provided with new water points. From 2007 to 2011, the Netherlands finance a program to improve rural water supply and sanitation. The national government of Benin also received funds for the implementation of a hand washing campaign. In addition, the gradual implementation of decentralization to local institutions and municipalities is supported.\n\nSince 2003, the World Bank has supported the Republic of Benin through Poverty Reduction Support Credits (PRSCs). The first (2004–2005) and the second (2005–2006) PRSCs, which together provided US$50 million were both designed to help the implementation of the 2002 Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper and included support for improving water supply.\n\nSecond Decentralized City Management Together with the French Development Agency, the World Bank contributes to the Second Decentralized City Management program, which started in 2005 and is expected to end in 2010. The program's objective is to increase access to infrastructure and basic services in the Beninese cities of Cotonou, Porto-Novo, Parakou, Abomey-Calavi, Kandi and Lokossa. Under the program, basic infrastructure including sewerage is rehabilitated and/or constructed. Community participation and integration is supported, in particular in poor neighborhoods.\n\nWater and Sanitation Program The World Bank's multi-donor partnership Water and Sanitation Program (WSP) is active in Benin and has established a country presence in 2004. The activities focus on the implementation of a strategy to reach the MDGs, in particular in rural areas, where the WSP supports the development and implementation of a communication action plan and a maintenance pilot project. Together with other development partners, the WSP seeks to introduce a strategy for urban water supply and sanitation. In addition, the WSP helps to develop a national hand washing initiative. The WSP works in a close partnership with the World Bank's Water and Urban Unit - West Africa and national development agencies.\n\n"}
{"id": "518048", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=518048", "title": "William Banting", "text": "William Banting\n\nWilliam Banting (\"c.\" December 1796 – 16 March 1878) was a notable English undertaker. Formerly obese, he is also known for being the first to popularise a weight loss diet based on limiting the intake of carbohydrates, especially those of a starchy or sugary nature. He undertook his dietary changes at the suggestion of Soho Square physician Dr. William Harvey, who in turn had learned of this type of diet, but in the context of diabetes management, from attending lectures in Paris by Claude Bernard.\n\nIn the early 19th century, the family business of William Banting of St. James’s Street, London, was among the most eminent companies of funeral directors in Britain. As funeral directors to the Royal Household itself, the Banting family conducted the funerals of King George III in 1820, King George IV in 1830, the Duke of Gloucester in 1834, the Duke of Wellington in 1852, Prince Albert in 1861, Prince Leopold in 1884, Queen Victoria in 1901, and King Edward VII in 1910. The royal undertaking warrant for the Banting family eventually ended in 1928 with the retirement of William Westport Banting.\n\nIn 1863, Banting wrote a booklet called \"Letter on Corpulence, Addressed to the Public\" which contained the particular plan for the diet he followed. It was written as an open letter in the form of a personal testimonial. Banting accounted all of his unsuccessful fasts, diets, spa and exercise regimens in his past. His previously unsuccessful attempts had been on the advice of various medical experts. He then described the dietary change which finally had worked for him, following the advice of another medical expert.\n\"My kind and valued medical adviser is not a doctor for obesity, but stands on the pinnacle of fame in the treatment of another malady, which, as he well knows, is frequently induced by [corpulence].\" (p24)\nHis own diet was four meals per day, consisting of meat, greens, fruits, and dry wine. The emphasis was on avoiding sugar, saccharine matter, starch, beer, milk and butter. Banting’s pamphlet was popular for years to come, and would be used as a model for modern diets. Initially, he published the booklet at his personal expense. The self-published edition was so popular that he determined to sell it to the general public. The third and later editions were published by Harrison, London. Banting's booklet remains in print as of 2007, and is still available on-line.\n\nThe popularity of the pamphlet mentioned above was such that the questions \"Do you bant?\" or \"Are you banting?\", still occasionally in use today, refer to his method, and sometimes even to dieting in general. In Sweden \"banta\" is still the main verb for \"being on a diet\". Scientist Tim Noakes popularised Banting in South Africa when he named his high-fat, low-carbohydrate diet after Banting.\nGary Taubes' study of carbohydrates, \"Good Calories, Bad Calories\", begins with a prologue entitled \"A brief history of Banting\" and discusses Banting at some length. Discussions of low-carbohydrate diets often begin with a discussion of Banting.\n\nBanting was a distant relative of Sir Frederick Banting, the co-discoverer of insulin. Banting's body is buried with those of his wife and daughter at Brompton Cemetery, London, England.\n\n\n"}
