{"id": "202615", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=202615", "title": "35th century BC", "text": "35th century BC\n\nThe 35th century BC in the Near East sees the gradual transition from the Chalcolithic to the Early Bronze Age. Proto-writing enters transitional stage, developing towards writing proper. Wheeled vehicles are now known beyond Mesopotamia, having spread north of the Caucasus and to Europe.\n\n\nOnly approximate dating is usually possible for mid-4th millennium artifacts.\n\n\nSee: List of sovereign states in the 35th century BC.\n"}
{"id": "27052436", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27052436", "title": "Acanthochronology", "text": "Acanthochronology\n\nAcanthochronology is the interdisciplinary study of cactus spines or \"Euphorbia\" thorns grown in time ordered sequence (i.e. in series). Physical, morphological or chemical characteristics and information about the relative order or absolute age of the spines or thorns is used to study past climate or plant physiology.\nFor example, columnar cactus spines grow from the apex of the plant. After several weeks the spines stop growing and have been moved to the side of the stem. The old spines remain in place for decades as new spines are created at the continually growing apex. The result is that along each external \"rib\" of the cactus is a series of spines arranged in the order they grew in – the oldest spines are at the bottom and the youngest spines are at the top. These spines can be dated using bomb-spike Carbon-14 and isotopes of carbon (Carbon-13) and oxygen (Oxygen-18) may be used to infer past climate (e.g. precipitation or temperature), plant stem growth or plant physiology (e.g. photosynthetic processes). Alternatively, the width of small transverse bands in the spine may be used to infer daily information about cloud cover or plant productivity, although this remains to be tested. It has also been shown that regular waxy banding on the sides of a Costa Rican cactus (Lemaireocereus aragonii) indicate annual growth and can be used as temporal chronometers. \nThis sub-discipline of paleoclimatology and ecophysiology is relatively new. Acanthochronology is closely related to dendrochronology, dendroclimatology and isotope geochemistry and borrows many of the methods and techniques from these sub-disciplines of the Earth Sciences. It also draws heavily from the field of ecophysiology, a branch of Biology, to ascribe spine or thorn characteristics to particular environmental or physiological variables.\n\nThe first peer-reviewed article to present and explain an isotope spine series was from a saguaro cactus in Tucson, Arizona. This and other work shows that radiocarbon and isotope time-series derived from spines can be used for demographic or palaeoclimate studies.\n"}
{"id": "29102018", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29102018", "title": "Alixe Bovey", "text": "Alixe Bovey\n\nAlixe Bovey is a Canadian medieval art historian and head of research at the Courtauld Institute of Art, a college of the University of London. Her personal research has been chiefly concerned with pictorial narratives and their cultural and literary context. She has also written on medieval monsters.\n\nIn 2008, Bovey presented the BBC television series \"In Search of Medieval Britain\", in which she retraced a series of journeys through Britain in the Middle Ages using the Gough Map.\n\n"}
{"id": "6786313", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6786313", "title": "Antonio de Morga", "text": "Antonio de Morga\n\nAntonio de Morga Sánchez Garay (1559 – July 21, 1636) was a Spanish lawyer and a high-ranking colonial official for 43 years, in the Philippines (1594 to 1604), New Spain and Peru, where he was president of the Audiencia for 20 years.\n\nHe was also a historian. After being reassigned to Mexico, he published the book \"Sucesos de las islas Filipinas\" in 1609, considered one of the most important works on the early history of the Spanish colonization of the Philippines. As Deputy Governor in the Philippines, he restored the \"audencia.\" He took over the function of judge or \"oidor\". He also took command of Spanish ships in a 1600 naval battle against Dutch corsairs, but suffered defeat and barely survived.\n\nHis history was first published in English in 1868; numerous editions have been published in English, including a 1907 edition that is online at the Gutenberg Project. It has also been reprinted in Spanish and other languages.\n\nAntonio de Morga Sánchez Garay was born in Seville. He graduated from the University of Salamanca in 1574 and in 1578 received a doctorate in canon law. He taught briefly in Osuna, and then returned to Salamanca to study civil law. In 1580 he joined the government service as a lawyer. Among other positions in Spain, he held that of auditor general of the galleys. In 1582 he was serving as mayor of Baracaldo in Vizcaya when he first married, to Juana de Briviesca de Munotones.\n\nIn August 1593 he was notified that he had been selected as Lieutenant to the Governor-General of the Philippines, starting what would become 43 years of colonial service. He traveled accompanied by his family, 14 servants, three black slaves and his collection of books. Following the route of that time, he sailed from Cadiz in February 1594, arriving in Mexico in May. During the following period of preparation for the Pacific voyage, he heard two important cases, and supervised the supplying of the two ships to be used. He also recruited 200 soldiers for the garrison in Manila. They departed Acapulco on March 22, 1595, reaching Manila on June 11, 1595. He had the second-most powerful position in the colony.\n\nHe first served under Governor-General Luis Pérez Dasmariñas, who was interim after his father's death. Francisco Tello de Guzmán soon succeeded him, and Morga reported to him during most of his time in the colony. In his account of the colonial Philippines published in 1609, Morga noted the miserable condition suffered by many of the Spanish/Mexican soldiers, who were young, ill-paid and suffered in that unfamiliar environment. Few wanted to settle in Manila, and higher-level government officials also sought to leave the colony in a few years. His first two reports to the Crown covered a wide variety of topics, mentioning Japan, Mindanao, and China, in addition to civil, military and ecclesiastical activities within the colony.\n\nHe issued regulations for administrative reform, known as the \"Ordenzas.\" Among his reforms was to restore the \"audencia.\" In 1598 he resigned as lieutenant governor to assume the office of \"oidor\", or judge, in the newly re-established Audiencia of Manila. The position required his removal from much public life.\nDuring this period, Morga encouraged the growth in trade between Spain and China, known as the galleon trade. Chinese ships came to Manila to trade. From there, the Spanish sent galleons to Acapulco, where goods were shipped to Mexico City and then to Veracruz, for transportation to Spain. They were paid for with Spanish/Mexican silver, which became a currency in China.\n\nWhile stationed in Manila, Morga noted many of the wares imported from the Ming dynasty of China. He mentioned porcelain only once, although at this time it was becoming one of the greatest export items, along with silk, to Europe from China. From his observation of textiles in the Manila inventory, the Spanish were buying:\n\n...raw silk in bundles...fine untwisted silk, white and of all colors...quantities of velvets, some plain and some embroidered in all sorts of figures, colors, and fashions, with body of gold and embroidered with gold; woven stuff and brocades, of gold and silver upon silk of various colors and patterns...damasks, satins, taffetas...\nOther goods that de Morga mentioned as being exported in the galleon trade were:\n\n...musk, benzoin and ivory; many bed ornaments, hangings, coverlets and tapestries of embroidered velvet...tablecloths, cushions, and carpets; horse-trappings of the same stuffs, and embroidered with glass beads and seed-pearls; also pearls and rubies, sapphires and crystals; metal basins, copper kettles and other copper and cast-iron pots. . .wheat flour, preserves made of orange, peach, pair, nutmeg and ginger, and other fruits of China; salt pork and other salt meats; live fowl of good breed and many fine capons...chestnuts, walnuts...little boxes and writing cases; beds, tables, chairs, and gilded benches, painted in many figures and patterns. They bring domestic buffaloes; geese that resemble swans; horses, some mules and asses; even caged birds, some of which talk, while others sing, and they make them play innumerable tricks...pepper and other spices.\nDe Morga closed his inventory list by stating that there were \"rarities which, did I refer to them all, I would never finish, nor have sufficient paper for it.\"\n\nIn 1600 Dutch corsairs under Olivier van Noort were preying on shipping entering Manila harbor. According to Morga's account, Governor Francisco de Tello de Guzmán and the Audiencia appointed Morga to go to Cavite and assemble, equip and supply a fleet to attack the Dutch (October 31, 1600). The ships available were the \"San Diego\", the \"San Bartolomé\" and some smaller vessels. Some refitting was necessary, since both the \"San Diego\" and the \"San Bartolomé\" were cargo ships. According to Morga, this was done without drawing on the colonial treasury (i.e., at his own expense, perhaps with other private contributions).\n\nMorga had had some military experience, having been general of a Spanish fleet some time previously and lieutenant of the captain general of the Philippines for some years, but he had never seen combat.\n\nOn December 1, 1600, Governor Tello appointed Morga captain general of the fleet, with orders to attack the two Dutch ships. The two forces met on December 14, 1600. The Spanish also had two ships, and one sailed off in pursuit of one of the Dutch ships. Unable to fire – the gunports were closed because they were under the waterline, because he had allowed the ship to be dangerously overloaded – Morga ordered the \"San Diego\" to ram the \"Mauritius\" and grapple it. Thirty soldiers and some sailors boarded the \"Mauritius\", taking possession of the forecastle and after-cabin and capturing the Dutch standard. The main and mizzen masts were stripped of sails and rigging. The Dutch retreated to the bow, where at first it seemed they were about to surrender. However, they soon renewed the fight with muskets and artillery.\n\nAn intense, six-hour hand-to-hand battle ensued, and many were killed on each side. The Dutch were said to have very few men left, and then the \"Mauritius\" caught fire. Fearing the fire, the \"San Diego\" recalled its men and cast off. However, the Spanish ship was taking on water and sinking, either from the ramming or from the artillery of the \"Mauritius\". (Accounts differ.)\n\nThe Dutch took this opportunity to extinguish the fire and set sail with the foresail, the only sail remaining, and with a skeleton crew. They eventually reached Borneo. The other Dutch ship, however, was captured by the \"San Bartolome\". It was taken to Manila, where the captain and the surviving sailors were garrotted on the orders of the governor.\n\nThe \"San Diego\" sank so quickly that the men for the most part were unable to disarm or abandon ship. Perhaps 350 men were lost. Morga swam for four hours, holding on to the Dutch standard, and made it to a small deserted island, where a few others of the ship's company also arrived.\n\nThis is based on the account of Morga, as published in his 1609 \"Sucesos de las Islas Filipinas.\" He blamed the captain of the \"San Bartolome\" for the loss of the \"San Diego\", because he had pursued the other Dutch ship rather than attacking the \"Mauritius\". The Dutch account of these events was very different, accusing Morga of incompetence and cowardice.\n\nIn 1992, French explorers led by Franck Goddio excavated the sunken \"San Diego\" with its treasure. Because of the large number of artifacts found with it (over 34,000), this was hailed as a great archaeological discovery. The artifacts included Chinese porcelain, celadon ware, Japanese katanas, Spanish morions, Portuguese cannons and Mexican coins. An MV \"San Diego\" warship museum has been constructed on Fortune Island to display and interpret many of the artifacts. This was the island reached by Morga and the other survivors of the \"San Diego\".\n\nOn July 10, 1603 Morga was reassigned to Mexico, in command of the ships sailing that year for New Spain. He became \"alcalde\" of criminal causes in the Royal Audiencia of Mexico City. He was also advisor to the viceroy on military matters and counsel for the Holy Office of the Inquisition. He served in Mexico until 1615, publishing his history of the Philippines in 1609, which has become noted for its account of the early colonial years and has been translated into numerous languages and published in many editions.\n\nIn 1615 he was named president of the Audiencia of Quito, within the Viceroyalty of Peru. He arrived in Guayaquil on September 8, 1615, having narrowly escaped falling into the hands of Dutch corsairs off the island of Santa Clara. He took up his office in Quito on September 30, 1615. During his administration, the textile industry advanced and the University of San Gregorio Magno was founded. It was a time of confrontation between the civil and ecclesiastic powers, as well as disputes between the Creole and Peninsular monks for control of the religious orders. Although Morga was widely known to gamble extensively, have affairs with women, and conduct other questionable activities, he still achieved bureaucratic reforms, as well as of the liturgy, and helped improve treatment of the native peoples.\n\nIn 1625 de Morga was investigated for corruption and arrested. On September 18, 1627 he was cleared of the charges and his offices were restored to him. He died in 1636. Except for the period 1625–27, he held the position of president of the Audiencia of Quito for 20 years, from 1615 until the year of his death. Most presidents of the Audencia served about 5 years. Even as he aged, Morga pursued women. Shortly before his death in 1636, he was relieved of his duties. He was fined 2000 gold ducats for \"having lewd relationships with much publicity and with many women\".\n\nMorga suffered important failures in both his military and political capacities. The same cannot be said for his work as historian. In 1609, he published the work for which he is now remembered – \"Sucesos de las Islas Filipinas\" (\"Events in the Philippine Isles\"). This work, perhaps the best account of Spanish colonialism in the Philippines written during that period, is based partly on documentary research, partly on keen observation, and partly on Morga's personal involvement and knowledge.\n\nThe history was published in two volumes, both in 1609 by Casa de Geronymo Balli, in Mexico City. (The work had circulated for years before this in manuscript form.) New Spain Viceroy Luis de Velasco (hijo) authorized the publication and granted Morga the sole right to publish it for ten years, on April 7, 1609. On the same date, Fray García Guerra, archbishop of Mexico, approved the publication of the work. The history covers the years from 1493 to 1603. Political, social, and economic phases of life, both among the natives and their conquerors, are treated. Morga's official position allowed him access to many government documents.\n\nThe work greatly impressed Philippine independence hero José Rizal (1861–96), himself a man of letters and of action. He decided to annotate it and publish a new edition. He began work on this in London, completing it in Paris in 1890. He wrote:\n\nIf the book (Sucesos de las Islas Filipinas) succeeds to awaken your consciousness of our past, already effaced from your memory, and to rectify what has been falsified and slandered, then I have not worked in vain, and with this as a basis, however small it may be, we shall be able to study the future.\n\nThe first English translation was published in London in 1868. Another English translation by Blair and Robertson was published in Cleveland in 1907, (it is available online at the Gutenberg Project) and an edition edited by J.S. Cummins was published by the Hakluyt Society in 1971 ().\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4283401", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4283401", "title": "Baron and feme", "text": "Baron and feme\n\nIn English law, baron and feme is a phrase used for husband and wife, in relation to each other, who were accounted as one person by coverture. Hence, by the old law of evidence, the one party was excluded from giving evidence for or against the other in civil questions, and a relic of this is still preserved in criminal law.\n\nIn heraldry, baron and femme are terms denoting the two halves of an heraldic escutcheon used when the coat of arms of a man and the paternal arms of his wife are impaled (or anciently dimidiated), that is borne \"per pale\" within the same escutcheon. The position of the husband's arms, on the dexter side (to viewer's \"left\"), the position of honour, is referred to as baron whilst the paternal arms of the wife are shown in sinister, referred to as femme. The resultant shield is used by the husband, as in general females are not entitled to display heraldry, unless \"suo jure\" peeresses. This is the normal way of displaying the arms of a married man. Impalement is not used when the wife is an heraldic heiress, in which case her paternal arms are displayed on an inescutcheon of pretence within her husbands' arms, denoting that the husband is a pretender to the paternal arms of his wife, and that they will be quartered by the couple's issue and later descendants. Where arms are impaled for reasons other than \"conjugal\" marriage, for example the \"spiritual\" marriage of a bishop to his see or the \"mystical\" marriage of King Richard II to Saint Edward the Confessor, the halves of the shield are referred to as simply dexter and sinister.\n\nIn late Latin \"baro, baronis\", meant man (cf modern Spanish \"varón\" which means a male). Later, in Western Europe, the word was used to refer to a ruler's leading henchmen (e.g. a baron was the King's Man). Later, it came to have a specific, legal definition as the tenant-in-chief of the early Norman kings, which class developed into feudal barons who held their lands from the king by the feudal tenure \"per baroniam\" and were entitled to attend parliament. The Norman-French word \"feme/femme\" simply denotes \"woman\" or \"wife\".\n\n"}
{"id": "31011650", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31011650", "title": "Betty Jane Gorin-Smith", "text": "Betty Jane Gorin-Smith\n\nBetty Jane Mitchell Gorin-Smith, known as Betty Jane Gorin-Smith (born December 18, 1940), is an independent historian from Campbellsville in Taylor County in central Kentucky, best known for her book \"Morgan Is Coming!: Confederate Raiders in the Heartland of Kentucky\", a study of Confederate General John Hunt Morgan's raids in 1863 during the height of the American Civil War.\n\nA historic preservationist, Gorin-Smith worked to establish the Heartland Civil War Trails project. She has been a primary leader of the preservation effort at the Tebbs Bend Civil War battlefield, having published the Green River Bridge Battlefield Driving Tour. In 2004, U.S. Representative Ron Lewis honored Gorin-Smith on the House floor and proclaimed her the \"historian laureate\" for the Kentucky Heartland.\n\nGorin-Smith was born in Campbellsville to the former Floye Minor (1917–2003) and David Heistand Mitchell (1919-1995). After Floye and David Mitchell divorced, Floye, a bookkeeper, in 1959 married Howard Smith (1906–1972), the owner of the Taylor County Stockyards. David H. Mitchell was a 1941 graduate in economics from Harvard College in Cambridge, Massachusetts. He also attended the University of Minnesota, where he studied Japanese. His business career was with the Timken Company, which relocated him to Cincinnati and Columbus, Ohio. A veteran of the United States Army in World War II, he was a member of Mensa and the American Numismatic Association.\n\nBetty Jane Mitchell graduated with Bachelor of Arts and Master of Arts degrees from the University of Kentucky at Lexington. She has also studied at Western Kentucky University in Bowling Green, Middle Tennessee State University in Murfreesboro, Tennessee, and the University of Virginia at Charlottesville, Virginia. She formerly taught history for some three decades at Taylor County High School and at Southern Baptist-affiliated Campbellsville University in Campbellsville and United Methodist-affiliated Lindsey Wilson College in Columbia in Adair County. In 1987, she was a Fulbright scholar to the Netherlands.\n\nBetty Jane Mitchell first married Donald L. Gorin (April 26, 1940 – August 26, 2000), a Taylor County native and graduate of Campbellsville High School and Tennessee Tech University in Cookeville, Tennessee, where he played basketball and baseball. He served in the Kentucky National Guard. He was a partner in the firm Blevins-Gorin Construction Company and a founder of Wholesale Hardwood Interiors. In 1990, Don Gorin was named \"Kentucky Entrepreneur of the Year\" by the accounting firm, Ernst & Young. The Gorins had a son, Mark Alan Gorin (born February 12, 1966) and wife, Deborah (born April 20, 1966), of Carmel, Indiana, and a daughter, Beth G. Cox (born June 21, 1968) and husband Michael Todd Cox (born December 17, 1966), of Hendersonville, Tennessee. Don Gorin also had a second son by a later marriage, Brandon Gorin, who resided in Baltimore, Maryland, at the time of his father's death.\n\nAfter her divorce, Betty Gorin married Gordon E. Smith (born March 26, 1928), an instructor in the English as a Second Language program at Campbellsville University, and hence acquired her hyphenated name. Gordon Smith edited his wife's book on General Morgan, which is considered exceptionally well-researched.\n\nOn July 4, 1863, the day that the Confederates surrendered at Vicksburg, Mississippi, and marched south in defeat from Gettysburg, Pennsylvania, another battle occurred beyond the line separating Taylor and Adair counties. This battle of Tebbs Bend launched General Morgan's Great Raid into Indiana and Ohio.\nUnion soldiers had crowded about the Adair County courthouse square in Columbia, as Confederate troops marched northward from Burkesville in Cumberland County by what is now Kentucky Highway 704 and Kentucky Route 61. Tutt Street in Columbia was then the dividing line between the two armies. Mostly forgotten outside Kentucky, Tebbs Bend was among the bloodiest encounters of the war in the Western theater. Later Governor James B. McCreary, a Confederate major, wrote in his diary: \"Many of our best men were killed or wounded. The beginning of this raid is ominous.\" Tebbs Bend deflected the Confederates from proceeding to Louisville, which seemed as weakly defended at that time as Washington, D.C., had been in August 1814 during the War of 1812.\n\nJacob F. Lee in December 2007 reviewed Gorin-Smith's book for the Filson Historical Society:\n\nGorin's most important contribution to the literature is a detailed study of south central Kentucky during the war. The work is most useful for the information Gorin collected about Taylor County and the surrounding area. While the narrative is sometimes bogged down with excessive detail, Kentucky historians and genealogists will find the book to be a gold mine of information. In addition to the narrative, Gorin put together several appendices listing Taylor County soldiers in the Civil War, casualties of the Battle of Tebb's Bend, official reports related to the battle, and period correspondence from Kentuckians who lived around Campbellsville. Gorin also includes extensive illustrations of persons and places referred to in the text. . . .\n\nGorin provides a well-documented history of the cavalryman's career in the area around Taylor County. However, she also raises many questions. While readers will learn much about Confederate raiders and guerrillas in the area, one wonders about the effects of the Union troops stationed in Taylor County. How did they interact with the community? Almost 10,500 slaves lived in the five counties Gorin studies. How did the demise of slavery affect whites and blacks in the area? That being said, Gorin has produced an informative study of the Civil War in south central Kentucky.\n\nShe is the founder of the Tebbs Bend Battlefield Association.\n\nGorin-Smith studied the impact of the Fruit of the Loom plant on Taylor County during the years from 1952 until layoff began in 1997, and the plant closed at the end of 1998. With overtime compensation, some factory workers made more money than schoolteachers, according to Gorin-Smith. \"The Factory, as the townspeople called the company, earlier seemed the ticket to economic stability in Campbellsville. A victim of globalization, the plant nevertheless shut down and moved to Latin America, but Amazon.com moved into the community to replace some of the lost jobs. Not long afterward, another mainstay of the local economy, the Indiana-based Batesville Casket Company, also closed its Campbellsville factory. Gorin-Smith observed that in the rural area surrounding Campbellsville \"there are a lot of brick houses. I call those 'Fruit of the Loom' houses or 'Factory' houses. The men farmed, and the women worked at the factory. Factory money built those houses, not farm money.\"\n\nGorin-Smith recalls that the city of Campbellsville had planned to construct a sewer system to treat wastewater from the Fruit of the Loom plant. Then Mayor Robert L. Miller had consulted with William F. \"Bill\" Farley, who purchased the company in 1985. According to Gorin-Smith, Farley promised Miller that the Campbellsville plant would remain operational. The closing, however, was completed as Miller, after thirty-three years in office, lost reelection in 1998 to Paul E. Osborne, a Campbellsville Realtor. \"That really hurt Bob to be betrayed like that,\" said Gorin-Smith.\n\nBetty and Gordon Smith were among those who worked on the pictoral history publication, \"The History of Campbellsville University, 1906-2006\", the narrative of which was written by J. Chester Badgett (1915-2011), a former pastor of the Campbellsville Baptist Church.\n\nIn 2009, Gorin-Smith appeared before the Taylor County Project Development Authority to discuss placing historical markers in the more accurate locations.\n\nThe Hiestands, ancestors of Gorin-Smith's father, David Hiestand Mitchell, were early settlers of Campbellsville. The Jacob Heistand House, which dates from 1823, is now a museum in Campbellsville, another project of Gorin-Smith's historical preservation efforts. It is one of only twelve such German houses in Kentucky. Gorin-Smith often provides guided tours at the museum. In 2008 and 2009, Citizens Bank of Campbellsville donated $2,500 to the museum in recognition of its significance to the tourism industry of central Kentucky. In 2008, two other Campbellsville banks, Taylor County and Community, each gave $1,000 to sustain the facility. \nIn July 2004, Campbellsville University presented Gorin-Smith with the Algernon Sydney Sullivan Award, named for Algernon Sydney Sullivan, the founder of the New York City law firm Sullivan and Cromwell. CU President Michael V. Carter hailed Gorin-Smith's academic and community accomplishments, which \"illustrate the wide breadth of her service, knowledge, achievements and civic engagement. ... [She has] a vast knowledge of the history of not only Taylor County but this entire region of our commonwealth.\"\n\nOn November 6, 2015, Gorin-Smith received the annual \"Award of Distinction\" from the Kentucky Historical Society to commend her efforts toward the preservation of state history. Earlier on October 10, she was named the winner of the \"Edith S. Bingham Excellence in Preservation Education Award\".\n"}
{"id": "336878", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=336878", "title": "Bolivian gas conflict", "text": "Bolivian gas conflict\n\nThe Bolivian gas conflict was a social confrontation in Bolivia reaching its peak in 2003, centering on the exploitation of the country's vast natural gas reserves. The expression can be extended to refer to the general conflict in Bolivia over the exploitation of gas resources, thus including the 2005 protests and the election of Evo Morales as president. Before these protests, Bolivia had seen a series of similar earlier protests during the Cochabamba protests of 2000, which were against the privatization of the municipal water supply.\n\nThe conflict had its roots in grievances over the government's economic policies concerning natural gas, as well as coca eradication policies, corruption and violent military responses against strikes. On a larger scale, it can be traced to Bolivia's colonization since the 15th century and the subsequent exploitation of its natural resources (e.g., the mines of Potosí).\n\nThe \"Bolivian gas war\" thus came to a head in October 2003, leading to the resignation of President Gonzalo Sánchez de Lozada (aka \"Goni\"). Strikes and road blocks mounted by indigenous and labour groups (including the COB trade union) brought the country to a standstill. Violent suppression by the Bolivian armed forces left some 60 people dead in October 2003, mostly inhabitants of El Alto, located on the \"Altiplano\" above the capital city of La Paz.\n\nThe governing coalition disintegrated forcing Goni to resign and leave the country on October 18, 2003. He was succeeded by the vice president, Carlos Mesa, who put the gas issue to a referendum on July 18, 2004. In May 2005, under duress from protesters, the Bolivian congress enacted a new hydrocarbons law, increasing the state's royalties from natural gas exploitation. However, protesters, who included Evo Morales and Felipe Quispe, demanded full nationalization of hydrocarbon resources, and the increased participation of Bolivia's indigenous majority, mainly composed of Aymaras and Quechuas, in the political life of the country. On June 6, 2005, Mesa was forced to resign as tens of thousands of protesters caused daily blockades to La Paz from the rest of the country. Morales' election at the end of 2005 was met with enthusiasm by the social movements, because he was, as the leader of left-wing MAS, one of the staunchest opponents to the exportation of the gas without corresponding industrialization in Bolivia. On May 1, 2006, President Morales signed a decree stating that all gas reserves were to be nationalized: \"the state recovers ownership, possession and total and absolute control\" of hydrocarbons. The 2006 announcement was met by applause on La Paz's main plaza, where Vice President Alvaro Garcia told the crowd that the government's energy-related revenue would jump US$320 million to US$780 million in 2007, continuing a trend where revenues had expanded nearly sixfold between 2002 and 2006.\n\nThe central issue was Bolivia's large natural gas reserves and the prospect for their future sale and use. The Bolivian gas reserves are the second largest in South America after Venezuela, and exploration after the privatization of the national oil company YPFB showed that proven natural gas reserves were 600% higher than previously known. The cash-poor, state-owned company could not afford the exploration costs. These reserves mainly are located in the southeastern Tarija Department, which contains 85% of gas and petrol reserves. According to the United States Department of Energy, another 10.6% is located within the department of Santa Cruz and 2.5% in the Cochabamba Department. After further exploration from 1996 to 2002, the estimated size of the probable gas reserves was calculated to be 12.5 times larger, passing from to . This number has declined somewhat to probable reserves. The proven reserves are . With the declining importance of tin mines, those reserves accounted for the majority of foreign investment in Bolivia. The price which Bolivia is paid for its natural gas is roughly US$3.25 to Brazil and $US3.18 to Argentina. Other sources state that Brazil pays between US$3.15/MMBtu and US$3.60/MMBtu (not including US$1.50/MMBtu in Petrobras extraction and transportation costs). The price of gas in the US as a whole is between US$5.85/MMBtu (May 21, 2006), US$7.90/MMBtu (April 2006) & US$6.46/MMtu (June 2006), although several years ago the price of natural gas spiked at $14 in California due to lack of pipeline capacity to and within California as well as due to electricity outages. While according to \"Le Monde\", Brazil and Argentina pay US$2 per thousand cubic meter of gas, which costs from $12 to $15 in California.\n\nIn 1994, a contract with Brazil was passed, two years before 1996's privatization of the 70-year-old, state-owned \"Yacimientos Petroliferos Fiscales de Bolivia\" (YPFB). The construction of the Bolivia-Brazil gas pipeline cost US$2.2 billion.\n\nA consortium called Pacific LNG was formed to exploit the newly discovered reserves. The consortium comprised the British companies BG Group and BP, and Spain's Repsol YPF. Repsol is one of three companies that dominate the gas sector in Bolivia, along with Petrobras and Total. A plan costing US$6 billion was drawn to build a pipeline to the Pacific coast, where the gas would be processed and liquefied before being shipped to Mexico and the United States (Baja California and California), through a Chilean port, for example Iquique. The 2003 Lozada deal was opposed heavily by Bolivian society, in part because of nationalism (Bolivia feels resentment after the territorial losses of the War of the Pacific in the late 19th century, which deprived it of the Litoral province and hence access to the sea).\n\nGovernment ministers hoped to use the gas profits to bolster the sagging Bolivian economy and claimed the money would be invested exclusively in health and education. Opponents argued that under the current law, the exportation of the gas as a raw material would give Bolivia only 18% of the future profits, or US$40 million to US$70 million per year. They further argued that exporting the gas so cheaply would be the latest case of foreign exploitation of Bolivia's natural resources, starting with its silver and gold from the 17th century. They demanded that a plant be built in Bolivia to process the gas and that domestic consumption had to be met before export. As \"Le Monde\" puts it, \"two reasons plead for the industrial exploitation of the gas, which the multinational companies now have the capacities of doing. The first is related to the necessity of satisfying the Bolivians' energy needs. The second demonstrates the interest of exporting a more profitable product rather than selling raw material\". According to the French newspaper, only La Paz, El Alto, Sucre, Potosí, Camiri and Santa Cruz are now connected to the gas network; making an interior network which would reach all Bolivians would cost $1.5 billion, notwithstanding a central gas pipeline to link the various regions together. According to Carlos Miranda, an independent expert quoted by \"Le Monde\", the best industrialisation project is the petrochemical complex proposed by the Brazilian Braskem firm, which would create 40 000 direct or indirect jobs and cost $1.4 billion. This figure is equivalent to the amount so far invested by Repsol, Total and Petrobras.\n\nBolivia, like much of Latin America, is a highly class-segregated society, in this case along ethnic lines: European-Indio. European descendants tend to monopolize political and economic power and in fact the republican institutions are drawn along the lines of European schools of thought with little or no adjustment to the indigenous tradition. This makes it much harder for the indigenous to integrate into society and to achieve personal success. Since the late 1990s, the indigenous communities have become radicalized throughout the Andes, pressing for political reform in Peru, Ecuador and Bolivia, loosely coordinated in the Pachacuti movement. The Movement Toward Socialism (MAS) is perhaps the strongest political expression of this movement in Bolivia, coordinating a wide range of community-based organizations mostly reflecting Aymara political aspirations.\n\nThe wealthier, eastern departments of Santa Cruz, Beni, Tarija, and Pando recently had been mobilizing in favor of autonomy. Important issues were opposition to the seizure of resources though nationalization, the confiscation of land from local control by outside ethnic groups (mainly the Aymara and Quechua), and a greater share of taxes collected within Santa Cruz to support roads and schools. Community leaders are supported by the Comite Pro Santa Cruz, local co-ops, and by business organizations such as cattle ranchers and farmers. A strike against the new constitution was recently held which was observed in Santa Cruz, Beni, Tarija, and Pando. Tensions have been raised by the cultural and philosophical rift exposed by the push for a new constitution. As a basis for a new constitution, the western, Altiplano-based MAS party envisions a \"council of indigenous peoples\" along with a curtailment of private ownership, while Santa Cruz looks to western culture and capitalism.\nCultural divisions exist because people in eastern Bolivia, called \"Cambas\" (meaning \"friends\" in Guarani), are primarily of mestizo descent (mix of European and several native tribes the largest of which are the Guaraní), while the western Altiplano is dominated by a small white elite and a historically oppressed Quechua and Aymara majority.\n\nThe first signs of the modern autonomy movement occurred in 2005 when a march for autonomy was attended by hundreds of thousands of people . A result of this was the change in law to allow the election of departmental prefects. Another area of tension was the result of ongoing population shifts and the resulting demands for proportionally greater representation in Bolivia's Congress to reflect these shifts by Santa Cruz. A compromise was reached to allow Santa Cruz to receive some of the seats warranted by population growth, and for the highlands to keep seats despite population losses.\n\nLeft-wing intellectuals Walter Chávez and Álvaro García Linera (the current Bolivian Vice President and MAS party member) published an article in the \"Monthly Review\" asserting that autonomy has been historically a demand of the Santa Cruz region, \"contemporarily imbued with far-right, populist sentiments.\" They also qualified Santa Cruz autonomy as a \"bourgeois ideology\" of the \"free market, foreign investment, racism, etc.\", which pits the \"modern\", \"whiter\" Santa Cruz elite against the short, dark-skinned and anti-capitalist Aymara and Quechua peoples of the western region of Bolivia.\n\nThe dispute arose in early 2002, when the administration of President Jorge Quiroga proposed building the pipeline through neighboring Chile to the port of Mejillones, the most direct route to the Pacific Ocean. However, antagonism towards Chile runs deep in Bolivia because of the loss of Bolivia's Pacific coastline to Chile in the War of the Pacific (1879–1884).\n\nBolivians began campaigning against the Chilean option, arguing instead that the pipeline should be routed north through the Peruvian port of Ilo, 260 km further from the gas fields than Mejillones, or, better yet, first industrialized in Bolivia. According to Chilean estimates, the Mejillones option would be $600 million cheaper.\nPeru, however, claimed the difference in cost would be no more than $300 million. Bolivian proponents of the Peruvian option say it would also benefit the economy of the northern region of Bolivia through which the pipeline would pass.\n\nSupporters of the Chile pipeline argued that U.S. financiers would be unlikely to develop processing facilities within Bolivia.\n\nMeanwhile, the Peruvian government, eager to promote territorial and economic integration, offered Bolivia a special economic zone for 99 years for exporting the gas at Ilo, the right of free passage, and the concession of a 10 km² area, including a port, that would be exclusively under Bolivian administration.\n\nPresident Jorge Quiroga postponed the decision shortly before leaving office in July 2002 and left this highly contentious issue to his successor. It was thought Quiroga did not want to jeopardize his chances of re-election as president in the 2007 elections.\n\nAfter winning the 2002 presidential election Gonzalo Sánchez de Lozada expressed his preference for the Mejillones option but made no \"official\" decision. The Gas War led to his resignation in October 2003.\n\nThe social conflict escalated in September 2003 with protests and road blockages paralyzing large parts of the country, leading to increasingly violent confrontations with the Bolivian armed forces.\nThe insurrection was spearheaded by Bolivia's indigenous majority, who accused Sánchez de Lozada of pandering to the US government's \"war on drugs\" and blamed him for failing to improve living standards in Bolivia. On September 8,650 Aymaras started a hunger strike to protest against the state detention of a villager. The man detained was one of the heads of the village, and was imprisoned for having sentenced to the death penalty two young men in a \"community justice\" trial.\nOn September 19, the National Coordination for the Defense of Gas mobilized 30,000 people in Cochabamba and 50,000 in La Paz to demonstrate against the pipeline.\nThe following day six Aymara villagers, including an eight-year-old girl, were killed in a confrontation in the town of Warisata. Government forces used planes and helicopters to circumvent the strikers and evacuate several hundred foreign and Bolivian tourists from Sorata who had been stranded by the road blockades for five days.\n\nIn response to the shootings, Bolivia's Labor Union (COB) called a general strike on September 29 that paralyzed the country with road closures.\nUnion leaders insisted they would continue until the government backed down on its decision.\nPoorly armed Aymara community militias drove the army and police out of Warisata and the towns of Sorata and Achacachi, equipped only with traditional Aymara sling shots and guns from the 1952 Bolivian National Revolution.\nEugenio Rojas, leader of the regional strike committee, declared that if the government refused to negotiate in Warisata, then the insurgent Aymara communities would surround La Paz and cut it off from the rest of the country — a tactic employed in the Túpaj Katari uprising of 1781.\nFelipe Quispe, leader of the Indigenous Pachakuti Movement (MIP), stated that he would not participate in dialogue with the government until the military withdrew from blockaded areas. The government refused to negotiate with Quispe, claiming that he did not have the authority to represent the \"campesino\" movement.\n\nAs the protests continued, protesters in El Alto, a sprawling indigenous city of 750,000 people on the periphery of La Paz, proceeded to block key access routes to the capital causing severe fuel and food shortages. They also demanded the resignation of Sánchez de Lozada and his ministers, Yerko Kukoc, Minister of Government, and Carlos Sánchez de Berzaín, Minister of Defense, who were held responsible for the Warisata massacre. Protesters also voiced their opposition to the Free Trade Area of the Americas agreement that was at the time under negotiation by the US and Latin American countries (since the November 2005 Mar del Plata Summit of the Americas, it has been put on stand-by).\n\nOn October 12, 2003 the government imposed martial law in El Alto after sixteen people were shot by the police and several dozen wounded in violent clashes which erupted when a caravan of oil trucks escorted by police and soldiers deploying tanks and heavy-caliber machine guns tried to breach a barricade.\n\nOn October 13, the administration of Sánchez de Lozada suspended the gas project \"until consultations have been conducted [with the Bolivian people].\" However, Vice President Carlos Mesa deplored what he referred to as the \"excessive force\" used in El Alto (80 dead) and withdrew his support for Sánchez de Lozada. The Minister of Economic Development, Jorge Torrez, of the MIR party, also resigned.\n\nThe United States Department of State issued a statement on October 13 declaring its support for Sánchez de Lozada, calling for \"Bolivia's political leaders [to] publicly express their support for democratic and constitutional order. The international community and the United States will not tolerate any interruption of constitutional order and will not support any regime that results from undemocratic means\".\n\nOn October 18, Sánchez de Lozada's governing coalition was fatally weakened when the \"New Republic Force\" party withdrew its support. He was forced to resign and was replaced by his vice president, Carlos Mesa, a former journalist. The strikes and roadblocks were lifted. Mesa promised that no civilians would be killed by police or army forces during his presidency. Despite dramatic unrest during his time in office, he respected this promise.\n\nAmong his first actions as president, Mesa promised a referendum on the gas issue and appointed several indigenous people to cabinet posts. On July 18, 2004, Mesa put the issue of gas nationalization to a referendum. On May 6, 2005, the Bolivian Congress passed a new law raising taxes from 18% to 32% on profits made by foreign companies on the extraction of oil and gas. Mesa failed to either sign or veto the law, so by law Senate President Hormando Vaca Diez was required to sign it into law on May 17. Many protesters felt this law was inadequate and demanded full nationalization of the gas and oil industry.\n\nOn May 6, 2005 the long-awaited Hydrocarbons Law was finally approved by the Bolivian Congress. On May 17 Mesa again refused to either sign or veto the controversial law, thus constitutionally requiring Senate President Hormando Vaca Díez to sign the measure and put it into effect.\n\nThe new law returned legal ownership to the state of all hydrocarbons and natural resources, maintained royalties at 18 percent, but increased taxes from 16 to 32 percent. It gave the government control of the commercialization of the resources and allowed for continuous government control with annual audits. It also ordered companies to consult with indigenous groups who live on land containing gas deposits. The law stated that the 76 contracts signed by foreign firms must be renegotiated before 180 days. This has not yet been done. Protesters argued that the new law did not go far enough to protect the natural resources from exploitation by foreign corporations, demanding a complete nationalization of the gas and process in Bolivia.\n\nDue to the uncertainty over renegotiation of contracts, foreign firms have practically stopped investing in the gas sector. Foreign investment virtually came to a standstill in the second half of 2005. Shortages in supply – very similar to those observed in Argentina after the 2001 price-fixing – are deepening in diesel, LPG, and begin to be apparent in natural gas. The May–June social unrest affected the supply of hydrocarbons products to the internal market, principally LPG and natural gas to the occidental region. Brazil implemented a contingency plan – led by the Energy and Mines Minister – to mitigate any potential impact from gas export curtailment. Although the supply was never curtailed, the social unrest in Bolivia created a strong sensation that security of supply could not be guaranteed. Occasional social action has continued to affect the continuity of supply, especially valve-closing actions.\n\nOver 80,000 people participated in the May 2005 protests. Tens of thousands of people each day walked from El Alto to the capital La Paz, where protesters effectively shut down the city, bringing transportation to a halt through strikes and blockades, and engaging in street battles with police. The protestors demanded the nationalisation of the gas industry and reforms to give more power to the indigenous majority, who were mainly Aymaras from the impoverished highlands. They were pushed back by the police with tear gas and rubber bullets, while many of the miners involved in the protests came armed with dynamite.\n\nMay 24, 2005\nMore than 10,000 Aymara peasant farmers from the twenty highland provinces came down from \"El Alto\"'s Ceja neighborhood into La Paz to protest.\n\nOn May 31, 2005 residents of El Alto and the Aymara peasant farmers returned to La Paz. More than 50,000 people covered an area of nearly 100 square kilometers. The next day, the first regiment of the National Police decided, by consensus, not to repress the protests and were internally reprimanded by the government.\n\nOn June 2, as the protests raged on, President Mesa announced two measures, designed to placate the indigenous protesters on the one hand and the Santa Cruz autonomy movement on the other: elections for a new constitutional assembly and a referendum on regional autonomy, both set for October 16. However, both sides rejected Mesa's call: the Pro-Santa Cruz Civic Committee declared its own referendum on autonomy for August 12, while in El Alto protesters began to cut off gasoline to La Paz.\n\nApproximately half a million people mobilized in the streets of La Paz, on June 6, and President Mesa subsequently offered his resignation. Riot police used tear gas as miners amongst the demonstrators traditionally set off dynamite in clashes near the presidential palace, while a strike brought traffic to a standstill. However, Congress failed to meet for several days owing to the \"insecurity\" of meeting as protests raged nearby. Many members of Congress found themselves unable to physically attend the sessions. Senate President Hormando Vaca Díez decided to move the sessions to Bolivia's alternate capital, Sucre, in an attempt to avoid the protesters. Radical farmers occupied oil wells owned by transnational companies, and blockaded border crossings. Mesa ordered the military to airlift food to La Paz, which remained totally blockaded.\n\nVaca Diez and House of Delegates president, Mario Cossío, were the two next in the line of succession to become President. However, they were strongly disliked by the protesters, and each declared they would not accept succession to the Presidency, finally promoting Edwardo Rodriguez, Supreme Court Chief Justice, to the Presidency. Considered apolitical and hence trustworthy by most, his administration was a temporary one until elections could be held. Protesters quickly disbanded in many areas, and like many times in Bolivia's past, major political upheavals were taken as a normal part of the political process.\n\nCaretaker President Rodriguez proceeded to implement the Hydrocarbons Law. The new tax IDH has been levied from the companies that are paying 'under reserve'. A number of upstream gas companies have invoked Bilateral Investment Protection Treaties and entered the conciliation phase with the state of Bolivia. The treaties are a step towards a court hearing before the International Centre for Settlement of Investment Disputes (ICSID), dependent of the World Bank, which could force Bolivia to pay indemnities to the companies.\n\nA military training agreement with Asunción (Paraguay), giving immunity to US soldiers, caused some concern after media reports initially reported that a base housing 20,000 US soldiers was being built at Mariscal Estigarribia within 200 km of Argentina and Bolivia, and 300 km of Brazil, near an airport which could receive large planes (B-52, C-130 Hercules, etc.) which the Paraguayan Air Forces do not have. According to the \"Clarín\", an Argentinian newspaper, the US military base is strategic because of its location near the \"Triple Frontera\" between Paraguay, Brazil and Argentina; its proximity to the Guarani aquifer; and, finally, its proximity to Bolivia (less than 200 km) at the same \"moment that Washington's magnifying glass goes on the \"Altiplano\" and points toward Venezuelan Hugo Chávez — the regional demon according to Bush's administration — as the instigator of the instability in the region\" (\"Clarín\").\n\nLater reports indicated that 400 US troops would be deployed in Paraguay over 18 months for training and humanitarian missions consisting of 13 detachments numbering less than 50 personnel each. The Paraguayan administration as well as Bush's administration denied that the airport would be used as a US military base, or that there would be any other US base in Paraguay.\n\nThe social conflicts of the last few years have paralyzed Bolivia's political life. The unpopularity of the neoliberal Washington consensus, a set of economic strategies implemented by Gonzalo de Lozada's administration, set the stage for the 2006 election of president Evo Morales, the country's first indigenous president.\n\nIn the meantime, Chile promptly started to build several coastal terminals to receive shipments of liquefied natural gas from Indonesia, Australia and other sources.\n\nOther South American countries are contemplating other ways to secure gas supplies: one project aims at linking the Camisea gas reserves in Peru to Argentina, Brazil, Chile, Uruguay and Paraguay. Linking Pisco (south of Peru) to Tocopilla (north of Chile) with a 1200 km pipeline would cost $2 billion. However, experts doubt the Camisea reserves are enough for all the Southern Cone countries.\n\nAnother 8,000 km gas pipeline (Gran Gasoducto del Sur) has been proposed that would link Venezuela to Argentina via Brazil. Its cost is estimated between $8 and $12 billion.\n\nWhile Argentina and Chile are large consumers of gas (50 percent and 25 percent respectively), other South American countries are a lot less dependent.\n\nOn May 1, 2006 president Evo Morales signed a decree stating that all gas reserves were to be nationalized: \"the state recovers ownership, possession and total and absolute control\" of hydrocarbons. He thus realized his electoral promises, declaring that \"We are not a government of mere promises: we follow through on what we propose and what the people demand\". The announcement was timed to coincide with Labor Day on May 1. Ordering the military and engineers of YPFB, the state firm, to occupy and secure energy installations, he gave foreign companies a six-month \"transition period\" to re-negotiate contracts, or face expulsion. Nevertheless, president Morales stated that the nationalization would not take the form of expropriations or confiscations. Vice President Álvaro García said in La Paz's main plaza that the government's energy-related revenue will jump to $780 million next year, expanding nearly sixfold from 2002. Among the 53 installations affected by the measure are those of Brazil's Petrobras, one of Bolivia's largest investors, which controls 14% of the country's gas reserves. Brazil's Energy Minister, Silas Rondeau, reacted by considering the move as \"unfriendly\" and contrary to previous understandings between his country and Bolivia. Petrobras, Spain's Repsol YPF, UK gas and oil producer BG Group Plc and France's Total are the main gas companies present in the country. According to Reuters, \"Bolivia's actions echo what Venezuelan President Hugo Chávez, a Morales ally, did in the world's fifth-largest oil exporter with forced contract migrations and retroactive tax hikes — conditions that oil majors largely agreed to accept.\" YPFB would pay foreign companies for their services, offering about 50 percent of the value of production, although the decree indicated that companies at the country's two largest gas fields would get just 18 percent.\n\nNegotiations between the Bolivian government and the foreign companies intensified during the week leading up to the deadline of Saturday October 28, 2006. On Friday an agreement was reached with two of the companies (including Total) and by the deadline on Saturday the rest of the ten companies (including Petrobras and Repsol YPF) operating in Bolivia had also come to an agreement. Full details of the new contracts have not been released, but the objective of raising government share of revenues from the two major fields from 60 percent to 82 percent seems to have been achieved. Revenue share for the government from minor fields is set at 60 percent.\n\nDuring the six month negotiation period talks with the Brazilian company Petrobras had proven especially difficult. Petrobras had refused raises or reduction to a mere service provider. As a result of stalled talks Bolivian energy minister Andres Soliz Rada resigned in October and was replaced by Carlos Villegas. \"We are\nobligated to live with Brazil in a marriage without divorce, because we both need each other\", said Evo Morales in the contract signing ceremony underlining the mutual dependency of Brazil on Bolivian gas and of Bolivia on Petrobras in gas production.\n\nOn December 15, 2007 the regions of Santa Cruz, Tarija, Beni, and Pando declared autonomy from the central government. They also moved to achieve full independence from Bolivia's new constitution.\n\nMiners from the Bolivian trade union \"Central Obrera Boliviana\" (COB) have also been very active in the recent protests. Recently they have been active against propositions to privatize pensions. They have been known for letting off very loud explosions of dynamite in the recent protests.\n\nShortly after the law passed, Evo Morales, an Aymara Indian, \"cocalero\", and leader of the opposition party Movement Towards Socialism (MAS), took a moderate position calling the new law \"middle ground\". However, as the protests progressed, Morales has come out in favor of nationalization and new elections.\n\nOscar Olivera was a prominent leader in the 2001 protests in Cochabamba against the privatization of water in Bolivia and has also become a leading figure. Specifically the protesters in Cochabamba, Bolivia's fourth largest city, have cut off the main roads in the city and are calling for a new Constituent Assembly as well as nationalization.\n\nIndians in the eastern lowland department of Santa Cruz have also become active in the recent disputes over nationalization of the gas and oil industry. They are composed of indigenous groups such as the Guaraní, Ayoreo, Chiquitano and the Guyarayos, as opposed to the highland Indians (Aymara and Quechua). They have been active in recent land disputes and the main organization representing this faction is known as the \"Confederacion de pueblos indigenas de Bolivia\" (CIDOB). The CIDOB after initially offering support to MAS, the party of Bolivia's new president, have come to believe that they were deceived by the Bolivian government. The MAS, which is based in the highlands, is no more willing to grant them voice than the previous governments whose power was also based from the highlands. Another smaller more radical group called the \"Landless Peasant Movement\" (MST) which is somewhat similar to the Landless Workers' Movement in Brazil, and is composed mainly of immigrants from the western part of the country. Recently, Guaraní Indians from this group have taken oil fields run by Spain's Repsol YPF and the United Kingdom's BP and have forced them to stop production.\n\nFelipe Quispe is a radical Aymara leader who wishes to return control of the country from what he sees as the \"white elite\" to the indigenous Aymaran people who make up the majority of the country's population. Therefore, he is in favor of an independent \"Aymaran state\". Quispe is the leader of the Pachakutik Indigenous Movement, that won six seats in the Congress and the secretary general of the United Peasants Union of Bolivia in the 2002 Bolivian elections.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1102014", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1102014", "title": "Bun'ei", "text": "Bun'ei\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "12808387", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12808387", "title": "Carlos María de Bustamante", "text": "Carlos María de Bustamante\n\nCarlos María de Bustamante Merecilla (4 November 1774 – 29 September 1848) was a Mexican statesman, historian, journalist and a supporter of Mexican independence. His historical \"work early initiated an important Mexican national tradition of searching out and publishing basic materials on the Indian past and its fate in the colonial period.\" His writings in the 1820s shifted \"the antiquarian bias of creole patriotism...into the ideology of a national liberation movement.\"\n\nCarlos María de Bustamante was born in the city of Oaxaca on 4 November 1774. In 1796 he took up the study of law, participated in the attempts to secure Mexico's independence from Spain, and, when that was finally achieved, opposed Agustín de Iturbide's designs to transform the newborn republic into a hereditary monarchy. Repeatedly imprisoned and banished, he was nevertheless appointed to important positions in the Government. The Mexican-American War of 1846-48 was a source of deep grief to him.\n\nHe founded the Mexican newspaper \"Diario de México\" in 1805 in which he expressed their independence liberal ideas and because this, he went to jail many times. After the Cádiz constitution he founded the newspaper \"El Juguetillo\". In 1813 José María Morelos y Pavón named him as editor in the independence newspaper \"Correo Americano del Sur\".\n\nCarlos María de Bustamante become deputy for the \"Provincia de Mexico\" in the Congress of Chilpancingo where he wrote the inaugural speech for Morelos, which \"declared that the insurgents were about to free Mexicans from the chains of serfdom imposed on them in 1521.\" Bustamante participated in the writing of first Mexican Constitution. He spend most of the time between 1815 and 1822 in jail. In 1822, after Mexican independence was achieved, Bustamente was elected deputy of Oaxaca.\n\nHis historical sketch of The Mexican-American War is a sad record of the decay and disintegration which afflicted Mexico at the time. He writes with the greatest frankness, and unsparingly, about the conduct of the war on the Mexican side. His autobiography \"Lo que se dice, y lo que se hace, 1833\", published in 1833, is also valuable as a fragment of contemporary history.\n\nAlthough constantly concerned in the politics of Mexico and occupying several very responsible positions during the most trying times of the Mexican Republic until the close of the war with the United States, Bustamante became a prominent Mexican historian. He distinguished himself by publishing historical works on colonial times, until then in manuscript and partly forgotten. Above all, his publication of \"Historia general de las cosas de Nueva España\", by Fray Bernardino de Sahagún of the second half of the 16th century, was a service to historical research.\n\nIn addition to the work of Sahagún, Bustamante printed the chronicle of Gómara, the work of Veytia on Tezcuco, the dissertations of Gama on two large Mexican sculptures, and others. To the history by Sahagún he added one of the \"relaciones\" of Fernando de Alva Ixtlixochitl, selected by him for the passionate spirit which it displays against the Spaniards. Bustamante found the manuscript of exiled Mexican Jesuit Andrés Cavo, \"Historia civil y política de México\" (\"Civil and Political History of Mexico\"), in Latin and Spanish. Bustamante published it with a large appendix, under the title \"Los tres siglos de México bajo el gobierno español hasta la entrada del Ejécito Trigarante\" (\"Three Centuries of Mexico Under the Spanish Government until the entry of the Army of the Three Guarantees\"). The first edition was published in Mexico City in four volumes in 1836-1838. Bustamante also published a portion of Mariano Veytia's \"Historia antigua de México\", which Veytia based on manuscripts collected by Lorenzo Boturini de Benaducci. Bustamante also published in defective form the eighteenth-century writings of Hipólito Villaroel, who wrote about the Spanish treatment of Indians, the colonial power structure regarding the Indians, and the \"Indian problem\" in Mexico.\n\nIn addition to the autobiography mentioned, and the light shed by his other works, the \"Diccionario universal de Historia y Geografía\" (Mexico, 1853), contains an exhaustive account of the man. The historian Lucas Alamán wrote biographical material on Bustamante, putting in relief especially his private character and the virtues of his domestic life.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "10381410", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10381410", "title": "Central American crisis", "text": "Central American crisis\n\nThe Central American crisis began in the late 1970s, when major civil wars and communist revolutions erupted in various countries in Central America, resulting in it becoming the number one region among US's foreign policy hot spots in the 1980s. In particular, the United States feared that victory by communist forces would isolate the rest of South America from the United States if the countries of Central America were to be installed with pro-Soviet communist governments. Throughout the second half of the nineteenth century, the United States often pursued their interests through puppet governments and the elite classes, who tended to ignore the demands of the peasant and working class.\n\nIn the aftermath of the Second World War going into the 1960s and 1970s, Latin America's economic landscape changed drastically. The United Kingdom and the United States both held political and economic interests in Latin America, whose economy developed based on external dependence. Rather than solely relying on agricultural exportation, this new system promoted internal development and relied on regional common markets, banking capital, interest rates, taxes, and growing capital at the expense of labor and the peasant class. The Central American Crisis was, in part, a reaction by the lower classes of Latin American society to unjust land tenure, labor coercion, and unequal political representation. Landed property had taken hold of the economic and political landscape of the region, giving large corporations a lot of influence over the region and forcing formerly subsistent farmers and lower-class workers into very harsh living conditions.\n\nThe Sandinista National Liberation Front (FSLN) overthrew the 46-year-long Somoza dictatorship in 1979. However, the United States opposed the Nicaraguan revolution, and instead backed the Somoza dictatorship and later the Contras.\n\nFought between the military-led government of El Salvador and the Farabundo Martí National Liberation Front (FMLN), a coalition or umbrella organization of five left-wing militias. Over the course of the 1970s, significant tensions and violence had already existed, before the civil war's full outbreak.\n\nThe United States supported the Salvadoran military government and supplied them with 4 billion dollars, trained their military elites, and provided them with arms over the course of a decade. Israel also actively supported the government forces and was El Salvador's largest supplier of arms from 1970 to 1976. The conflict ended in the early 1990s. Between 75,000 and 90,000 people were killed during the war.\n\nFollowing a CIA-backed coup ousting Jacobo Arbenz in 1954, civil war ensued in Guatemala between 1962 and 1996. In Guatemala, the Rebel Armed Forces (FAR) fighting against the government were based exclusively in rural areas, and were made up of a large peasant and indigenous population. They ran a multifaceted operation and led an armed mass struggle of national character. Guatemala saw an increase in violence in the late 1970s, marked by the 1978 Panzós massacre. In 1982 the resurgent guerrilla groups united in the Guatemalan National Revolutionary Unity. The presidency of Efraín Ríos Montt (1982–1983), during which he implemented a strategy he called \"beans and bullets\", is widely considered the war's turning point. The Guatemalan government and the severely weakened guerrillas signed a peace agreement in December 1996, ending the war. Over 200,000 people died over the course of the civil war, disproportionately indigenous people targeted by the Ríos Montt headed military. On 10 May 2013, Ríos Montt was convicted of genocide and sentenced to 80 years in prison.\n\nGoing into the Central American Crisis, Honduras's economy was framed by stagnating agricultural production, de-industrialization, deteriorating terms of trade, the continuing problems of the Central American common market, the decline of international financial reserves, salary decline, and increasing unemployment and underemployment. Honduras, like El Salvador, was increasingly dependent on economic assistance from the United States. In Honduras, efforts to establish guerrilla movements foundered on the generally conservative attitude of the population. Nevertheless, fears that the civil wars wracking its neighbors might spread to the country led to the killings and disappearances of leftists, spearheaded by the army's Battalion 316. Relatively stable Honduras became a key base for the Reagan administration's response to the crisis. US troops held large military exercises in Honduras during the 1980s, and trained thousands of Salvadorans in the country. The nation also hosted bases for the Nicaraguan Contras.\n\n\nBy the late 1980s, El Salvador, Guatemala, and Honduras all implemented reforms such as privatizing state companies, liberalizing trade, introducing greater flexibility to labor laws, and increasing consumption taxes in attempts to stabilize their economies. , violence still reigns over Central America. A common legacy of the Central American crisis was the displacement and destruction of indigenous communities, especially in Guatemala where they were considered potential supporters of both the government and guerilla forces.\n\nSeveral Latin American nations formed the Contadora Group to work for a resolution to the region's wars. Later, Costa Rican President Óscar Arias succeeded in convincing the other Central American leaders to sign the Esquipulas Peace Agreement, which eventually provided the framework for ending the civil wars.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "12356378", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12356378", "title": "Chief Minister's Northern Territory Book History Awards", "text": "Chief Minister's Northern Territory Book History Awards\n\nThe Chief Minister's Northern Territory History Book Award is the premier prize for work pertaining to the history of the Northern Territory of Australia. \n\nThe award began in 2004. It was created to recognise \"the scholarly, literary and creative achievements\" of Australian writers and to encourage the documenting of history of the Northern Territory. The inaugural winner was Dr David Bridgman for \"Acclimatisation: architecture at the Top End of Australia. \n\nThe award is administered by Northern Territory Library.\n\nSource: Northern Territory Library\n\n"}
{"id": "44550564", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44550564", "title": "David Burrell", "text": "David Burrell\n\nDavid Bakewell Burrell, C.S.C. (born 16 August 1933), a priest of the Congregation of Holy Cross, is an American educator, theologian, writer and translator. He is the Theodore Hesburgh Professor emeritus in Philosophy and Theology at University of Notre Dame, USA. He wrote around thirteen books on Judeo-Christian and Islamic religions. He knows several languages; he translated two books of Al-Ghazali from Arabic into English. He also taught comparative theology, ethics and development at Uganda Martyrs University, Nkozi, Uganda; Tangaza College, Nairobi, Kenya; and Hebrew University, Jerusalem. During 1960s, he was involved in Anti-Vietnam War Movement. He is also a professor at Notre Dame University Bangladesh.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "270348", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=270348", "title": "Dio Chrysostom", "text": "Dio Chrysostom\n\nDio Chrysostom (; \"Dion Chrysostomos\"), Dion of Prusa or Dio Cocceianus (c. 40 – c. 115 AD), was a Greek orator, writer, philosopher and historian of the Roman Empire in the 1st century. Eighty of his \"Discourses\" (or \"Orations\"; ) are extant, as well as a few Letters and a funny mock essay \"In Praise of Hair\", as well as a few other fragments. His surname \"Chrysostom\" comes from the Greek \"chrysostomos\" (χρυσόστομος), which literally means \"golden-mouthed\". He should not be confused with the Roman historian Cassius Dio, nor with the 4th-century bishop John Chrysostom of Constantinople.\n\nHe was born at Prusa (now Bursa) in the Roman province of Bithynia (now part of northwestern Turkey). His father, Pasicrates, seems to have bestowed great care on his son Dio's education and the early training of his mind. At first he occupied himself in his native place, where he held important offices, with the composition of speeches and other rhetorical and sophistical essays, but he later devoted himself with great zeal to the study of philosophy. He did not, however, confine himself to any particular sect or school, nor did he give himself up to any profound speculations, his object being rather to apply the doctrines of philosophy to the purposes of practical life, and more especially to the administration of public affairs, and thus to bring about a better state of things. The Stoic and Platonist philosophies, however, appear to have had the greatest charms for him. \n\nHe went to Rome during Vespasian's reign (69–79 AD), by which time he seems to have got married and had a child. He became a critic of the Emperor Domitian, who banished him from Rome, Italy, and Bithynia in 82 for advising one of the Emperor's conspiring relatives. On the advice of the Delphic oracle, he put on the clothes of a beggar, and with nothing in his pocket but a copy of Plato's Phaedo and Demosthenes's oration on the \"Embassy\", he lived the life of a Cynic philosopher, undertaking a journey to the countries in the north and east of the Roman empire. He thus visited Thrace, Mysia, Scythia, and the country of the Getae, and owing to the power and wisdom of his orations, he met everywhere with a kindly reception, and did much good. He was a friend of Nerva, and when Domitian was murdered in 96 AD, Dio used his influence with the army stationed on the frontier in favour of Nerva. Under Emperor Nerva's reign, his exile was ended, and he was able to return home to Prusa. He adopted the surname Cocceianus in later life to honour the support given to him by the emperor, whose full name was Marcus Cocceius Nerva. Nerva's successor, Trajan, entertained the highest esteem for Dio, and showed him the most marked favour. His kindly disposition gained him many eminent friends, such as Apollonius of Tyana and Euphrates of Tyre, and his oratory the admiration of all. In his later life Dio had considerable status in Prusa, and there are records of him being involved in an urban renewal lawsuit about 111. He probably died a few years later.\n\nDio Chrysostom was part of the Second Sophistic school of Greek philosophers which reached its peak in the early 2nd century. He was considered as one of the most eminent of the Greek rhetoricians and sophists by the ancients who wrote about him, such as Philostratus, Synesius, and Photius. This is confirmed by the eighty orations of his which are still extant, and which were the only ones known in the time of Photius. These orations appear to be written versions of his oral teaching, and are like essays on political, moral, and philosophical subjects. They include four orations on Kingship addressed to Trajan on the virtues of a sovereign; four on the character of Diogenes of Sinope, on the troubles to which men expose themselves by deserting the path of Nature, and on the difficulties which a sovereign has to encounter; essays on slavery and freedom; on the means of attaining eminence as an orator; political discourses addressed to various towns which he sometimes praises and sometimes blames, but always with moderation and wisdom; on subjects of ethics and practical philosophy, which he treats in a popular and attractive manner; and lastly, orations on mythical subjects and show-speeches. He argued strongly against permitting prostitution. He also claimed that the epics of Homer had been translated and were sung in India; this is unlikely to be true, and there may have been confusion with the \"Mahabharata\" and the \"Ramayana\", of which there are some parallels in subject matter. Two orations of his (37 and 64) are now assigned to Favorinus. Besides the eighty orations we have fragments of fifteen others, and there are extant also five letters under Dio's name. \n\nHe wrote many other philosophical and historical works, none of which survive. One of these works, Getica, was on the Getae, which the Suda incorrectly attributes to Dio Cassius.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "52883825", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52883825", "title": "Emanuel Peter John Adeniyi Thomas", "text": "Emanuel Peter John Adeniyi Thomas\n\nFlight Lieutenant Emanuel Peter John Adeniyi Thomas (1914 – 12 January 1945) was a Nigerian born Royal Air Force (RAF) officer and first African to be granted a commission in the RAF.\n\nHe was born in Lagos to businessman Peter John Claudius Thomas and Josetta Mary Thomas (née Cole). His older sibling was Stella Thomas, first woman magistrate in West Africa. He attended King's College, Lagos and worked for his father before joining the Labour Department of the Nigerian Government.\n\nThomas was inspired to join the Royal Air Force (RAF) after reading about The Battle of Britain. His application to the RAF was supported by Charles Woolley, the chief secretary to the government of Nigeria, who personally forwarded Thomas's application to London. Writing about his partial inspiration to join the RAF, Thomas noted:\n\"My great-grandfather was a chieftain. One day his rival betrayed him to a slave dealer. He was put on a ship along with 100 other slaves and was soon on his way to America. Ten days out in the Atlantic his ship was intercepted by one of Her Majesty’s ships. The slaves were rescued, and at Freetown (Sierra Leone), my great-grandfather regained his freedom.\" \n\nHe travelled to the United Kingdom to enlist in the RAF. On 17 September 1942, he became the first Black African to qualify as a pilot and was commissioned as an officer. He received two promotion: one in 1943 to Flying Officer and the other in September 1944, to Flight Lieutenant. In his spare time he helped the Colonial Office by welcoming visiting West African students to London.\n\nHe died in an air crash on January 12, 1945 and is buried at Bath Cemetery.\n"}
{"id": "9660501", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9660501", "title": "Factory (trading post)", "text": "Factory (trading post)\n\n\"Factory\" (from Latin \"facere\", meaning \"to do\"; , , , ) was the common name during the medieval and early modern eras for an entrepôt – which was essentially an early form of free-trade zone or transshipment point. At a factory, local inhabitants could interact with foreign merchants, often known as factors. First established in Europe, factories eventually spread to many other parts of the world.\n\nThe factories established by European states in Africa, Asia and the Americas from the 15th century onward also tended to be official political dependencies of those states. These have been seen, in retrospect, as the precursors of colonial expansion. \n\nA factory could serve simultaneously as market, warehouse, customs, defense and support to navigation exploration, headquarters or \"de facto\" government of local communities.\n\nIn North America, Europeans began to interact with pre-existing native American trade systems during the 16th century. Colonists created factories, known as trading posts, at which furs could be traded, in Native American territory.\n\nAlthough European colonialism traces its roots from the classical era, when Phoenicians, Greeks and Romans established colonies of settlement around the Mediterranean – \"factories\" were a unique institution born in medieval Europe.\n\nOriginally, factories were organizations of European merchants from a state, meeting in a foreign place. These organizations sought to defend their common interests, mainly economic (as well as organized insurance and protection), enabling the maintenance of diplomatic and trade relations within the foreign state where they were set.\n\nThe factories were established from 1356 onwards in the main trading centers, usually ports or central hubs that have prospered under the influence of the Hanseatic League and its guilds and kontors. The Hanseatic cities had their own law system and furnished their own protection and mutual aid. The Hanseatic League maintained factories, among others, in England (Boston, King's Lynn), Norway (Tønsberg) and Finland (Åbo). Later, cities like Bruges and Antwerp actively tried to take over the monopoly of trade from the Hansa, inviting foreign merchants to join in.\n\nBecause foreigners were not allowed to buy land in these cities, merchants joined around factories, like the Portuguese in their Bruges factory: the factor(s) and his officers rented the housing and warehouses, arbitrated trade, and even managed insurance funds, working both as an association and an embassy, even administering justice within the merchant community.\n\nDuring the territorial and economic expansion of the Age of Discovery, the factory was adapted by the Portuguese and spread throughout from West Africa to Southeast Asia. The Portuguese \"feitorias\" were mostly fortified trading posts settled in coastal areas, built to centralize and thus dominate the local trade of products with the Portuguese kingdom (and thence to Europe). They served simultaneously as market, warehouse, support to the navigation and customs and were governed by a \"feitor\" (\"factor\") responsible for managing the trade, buying and trading products on behalf of the king and collecting taxes (usually 20%).\nThe first Portuguese \"feitoria\" overseas was established by Henry the Navigator in 1445 on the island of Arguin, off the coast of Mauritania. It was built to attract Muslim traders and monopolize the business in the routes traveled in North Africa. It served as a model for a chain of African \"feitorias\", Elmina Castle being the most notorious.\n\nBetween the 15th and 16th centuries, a chain of about 50 Portuguese forts either housed or protected \"feitorias\" along the coasts of West and East Africa, the Indian Ocean, China, Japan, and South America. The main Portuguese factories were in Goa, Malacca, Ormuz, Ternate, and Macau. They were mainly driven by the trade of gold and slaves on the coast of Guinea, spices in the Indian Ocean, and sugar cane in the New World. They were also used for local triangular trade between several territories, like Goa-Macau-Nagasaki, trading products such as sugar, pepper, coconut, timber, horses, grain, feathers from exotic Indonesian birds, precious stones, silks and porcelain from the East, among many other products. In the Indian Ocean, the trade in Portuguese factories was enforced and increased by a merchant ship licensing system: the cartazes.\n\nFrom the \"feitorias\", the products went to the main outpost in Goa, then to Portugal where they were traded in the Casa da Índia, which also managed exports to India. There they were sold, or re-exported to the Royal Portuguese Factory in Antwerp, where they were distributed to the rest of Europe.\n\nEasily supplied and defended by sea, the factories worked as independent colonial bases. They provided safety, both for the Portuguese, and at times for the territories in which they were built, protecting against constant rivalries and piracy. They allowed Portugal to dominate trade in the Atlantic and Indian oceans, establishing a vast empire with scarce human and territorial resources. Over time, the \"feitorias\" were sometimes licensed to private entrepreneurs, giving rise to some conflict between abusive private interests and local populations, such as in the Maldives.\n\nOther European powers began to establish factories in the 17th century along the trade routes explored by Portugal and Spain, first the Dutch and then the English. They went on to establish in conquered Portuguese \"feitorias\" and further enclaves, as they explored the coasts of Africa, Arabia, India, and South East Asia in search of the source of the lucrative spice trade.\n\nFactories were then established by chartered companies such as the Dutch East India Company (VOC), founded in 1602, and the Dutch West India Company (WIC), founded in 1621. These factories provided for the exchange of products among European companies, local populations, and the colonies that often started as a factory with warehouses. Usually these factories had larger warehouses to fit the products resulting from the increasing agricultural development of colonies, which were boosted in the New World by the Atlantic slave trade.\n\nIn these factories, the products were checked, weighed, and packaged to prepare for the long sea voyage. In particular, spices, cocoa, tea, tobacco, coffee, sugar, porcelain, and fur were well protected against the salty sea air and against deterioration. The factor was present as the representative of the trading partners in all matters, reporting to the headquarters and being responsible for the products’ logistics (proper storage and shipping). Information took a long time to reach the company headquarters, and this was dependent on an absolute trust.\n\nSome Dutch factories were located in Cape Town in modern-day South Africa, Mocha in Yemen, Calicut and the Coromandel Coast in southern India, Colombo in Sri Lanka, Ambon in Indonesia, Fort Zeelandia in Taiwan, Canton in southern China, Dejima Island in Japan (the only legal point of trade between Japan and the outside world during the Edo Period), and Fort Orange in modern-day Upstate New York in the United States.\n\nThe American factories often played a strategic role as well, sometimes operating as forts, providing a degree of protection for colonists and their allies from hostile Indians and foreign colonists. \n\nYork Factory was founded by the chartered Hudson's Bay Company in 1697. It was headquarters of the company for a long time, and was once the \"de facto\" government in parts of North America such as Rupert's Land, before European-based colonies existed. It controlled the fur trade throughout much of British-controlled North America for several centuries, undertaking early exploration. Its traders and trappers forged early relationships with many groups of American Indians, and a network of trading posts formed the nucleus for later official authority in many areas of Western Canada and the United States.\n\nThe early coastal factory model contrasted with the system of the French, who established an extensive system of inland posts and sent traders to live among the tribes of the region. War broke out in Europe between France and England in the 1680s, and the two nations regularly sent expeditions to raid and capture each other's fur trading posts. In March 1686, the French sent a raiding party under Chevalier des Troyes over to capture the company's posts along James Bay. In 1697, Pierre Le Moyne d'Iberville, commander of the company's captured posts, defeated three ships of the Royal Navy in the Battle of the Bay on his way to capture York Factory by a ruse. York Factory changed hands several times in the next decade and was finally ceded permanently in the 1713 Treaty of Utrecht. After the treaty, the Hudson Bay Company rebuilt York Factory as a brick star fort at the mouth of the nearby Hayes River, its present location.\n\nThe United States government sanctioned a factory system from 1796 to 1822, with factories scattered through the mostly territorial portion of the country.\n\nThe factories were officially intended to protect Indians from exploitation through a series of legislation called the Indian Intercourse Acts. However, in practice, numerous tribes conceded extensive territory in exchange for the trading posts, as happened in the Treaty of Fort Clark in which the Osage Nation ceded most of Missouri at Fort Clark.\n\nA blacksmith was usually assigned to the factory to repair utensils and build or maintain plows. The factories frequently also had some sort of milling operation associated with them.\n\nThe factories marked the United States' attempt to continue a process originally pioneered by the French and then by the Spanish to officially license the fur trade in Upper Louisiana.\n\nFactories were frequently called \"forts\" and often had numerous unofficial names. Legislation was often passed calling for military garrisons at the fort but their de facto purpose was a trading post.\n\nYork Factory was founded by the Hudson's Bay Company in 1697.\n\nIn the United States factories under the Superintendent of Indian Trade:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "18168241", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18168241", "title": "Franz Boll (historian)", "text": "Franz Boll (historian)\n\nFranz Christian Boll (17 October 1805, Neubrandenburg – 20 March 1875) was a Lutheran theologian and historian. He was the father of physiologist Franz Christian Boll (1849–1879), and the brother of naturalist Ernst Boll (1817–1868), with whom he collaborated throughout his career.\n\nHe studied theology in Halle, Berlin and Rostock, and in 1835 returned to Neubrandenburg as a pastor and school teacher. In 1866 he became \"Praepositus\" of the Neubrandenburg Synod.\n\nAs a historian, Boll dealt largely with the history of the Mecklenburg region in Germany. This work involved investigations of documented information contained in various towns and churches, including intensive study on the history of Neubrandenburg and the Broda monastery. His two-volume work, \"Geschichte der Lande Stargard bis 1470\", was an historical account of Mecklenburg-Stargard prior to the year 1470. Boll also performed archaeological research in the Mecklenburg region, and with his brother, he collaborated on \"Die Geschichte Mecklenburgs, mit besonderer Berücksichtigung der Culturgeschichte\", a two-volume treatise involving the history of Mecklenburg, with particular attention given to its cultural history.\n\nBoll was an active member of the \"Neubrandenburger Reformbewegung\", a confederation that was part of the reform movement of 1848. As his career progressed, he became good friends with novelist Fritz Reuter (1810–1874).\n\n\n"}
{"id": "58523612", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58523612", "title": "Ghazni Minarets", "text": "Ghazni Minarets\n\nGhazni Minarets are two elaborately decorated minaret towers located in Ghazni city, central Afghanistan. They were built in middle of the twelfth century and are the only surviving elements of the mosque of Bahram Shah. The two minarets are 600 meters (1968 feet) apart and lie in an open plain, east of Ghazni city. \n\nBoth minarets of Ghazni are 20 metres (66 feet) tall and built of fired mud brick. The surface of the towers are decorated beautifully with intricate geometric patterns and Qurunic verses on elaborate terracotta tiles. In 1960's, both towers were fitted with sheet metal roofs in a limited preservation effort.\n\nThe 12th century minarets are the most famous monuments of Ghazni city and are among the last surviving remnants of the great Ghaznavid Empire. The two minarets are called, Mas'ud III Minaret and Bahram Shah Minaret after the ruler who built them, Masud III (A.D. 1099-1115) and Bahram Shah (A.D. 1118-1157). The excavated palace of Mas'ud III lies nearby to the towers.\n\nThe minarets were taller before the upper sections were damaged and destroyed over time. Part of the Masud III minaret top was destroyed in an earthquake in 1902. \n\nGhazni Minarets are not well preserved or protected. Both towers are in danger from natural elements and the political instability in Afghanistan. There is no basic security measures in place to prevent vandalism and the towers are in need of new roofing to prevent water infiltration into the towers. \n\nThe towers surface intricate geometric patterns and Quranic inscriptions are deteriorating rapidly with exposure to rain and snow. They are further affected by the nearby road and the area is subject to periodic flooding. \n\n"}
{"id": "19188466", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19188466", "title": "Helen Gregory", "text": "Helen Gregory\n\nHelen Gregory (born 1946) is a prominent historian, author and retired public servant in and of Brisbane, Queensland Australia and its surrounds.\n\nShe holds a BA (Hons) from the University of Queensland and is a former adjunct professor of that institution.\n\nIn 1969 Helen Gregory was the first Queensland woman to be offered a Rotary Overseas Postgraduate Scholarship, but was unable to take up the award.\n\nIn the mid 1970s she was a consultant historian to the private and government sectors, and is believed to be the first graduate historian in Queensland to use her training in this way, demonstrating that privately commissioned histories could be undertaken without sacrificing academic standards or ethical integrity. She was the founder of the Brisbane History Group and the Professional Historians' Association (Queensland), the professional association which promotes the interests of consulting historians in Queensland, and maintains standards of practice. As well as commissioned history, Ms Gregory is the author or co-author of many academic articles and studies and several entries in the Australian Dictionary of Biography.\n\nMs Gregory became the first Chair of the Queensland Heritage Council in 1992, and subsequently became Director, Cultural Heritage in the Queensland Government's Environment and Heritage department (later renamed the Environmental Protection Agency, the first woman to be appointed to a senior executive position in that department.\n\nIn 2005 and subsequent years, Ms Gregory has been a judge of the History Book Award for the Queensland Premier's Literary Awards. In 2006 Ms Gregory was a member of the independent panel that suggested the name for the Eleanor Schonell Bridge to the Lord Mayor of Brisbane and in November 2007 she was appointed to the board of trustees of Newstead House, one of Queensland's oldest and most important cultural heritage sites.\n\nMs Gregory is married to prominent Brisbane solicitor Scott Gregory. Together they have three adult sons and, as of 2015, six grandchildren.\n\nWorks by Helen Gregory include:\n\n"}
{"id": "12612212", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12612212", "title": "Historical Thesaurus of the Oxford English Dictionary", "text": "Historical Thesaurus of the Oxford English Dictionary\n\nThe Historical Thesaurus of the Oxford English Dictionary (HTOED) is the print edition of the largest thesaurus in the world, the Historical Thesaurus of English (HTE), conceived and compiled by the English Language Department of the University of Glasgow. The \"HTE\" is a complete database of all the words in the second edition of \"The Oxford English Dictionary\", arranged by semantic field and date. In this way, the \"HTE\" arranges the whole vocabulary of English, from the earliest written records in Old English to the present, alongside types and dates of use. It is the first historical thesaurus to be compiled for any of the world's languages and contains 800,000 meanings for 600,000 words, within 230,000 categories, covering more than 920,000 words and meanings. As the \"HTE\" website states, \"in addition to providing hitherto unavailable information for linguistic and textual scholars, the \"Historical Thesaurus\" online is a rich resource for students of social and cultural history, showing how concepts developed through the words that refer to them.\"\n\nThe ambitious project was announced at a 1965 meeting of the Philological Society by its originator, Michael Samuels. Work on the \"HTE\" started in 1965.\n\nOn 22 October 2009, after 44 years of work, version 1.0 was published as a two-volume set as \"HTOED\". It consists of two slipcased hardcover volumes, totaling nearly 4,000 pages. The \"HTE\", released as version 4.2 in September 2014, is freely available online from the University of Glasgow.\n\nThe work is divided into three main sections: the External World, the Mind, and Society. These are broken down into successively narrower domains. The text eventually discriminates more than 236,000 categories.\nThe second order categories are:\n"}
{"id": "44212711", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44212711", "title": "James Semple Kerr", "text": "James Semple Kerr\n\nJames Semple Kerr (6 July 1932 – 15 October 2014) was an architectural historian and heritage practitioner in Australia, who was prominent in the drafting of the original Burra Charter and its subsidiary documents, and developing standards for conservation practice, particularly in relation to conservation assessments and management reports such as conservation management plans. Kerr's influence in the conservation movement is most notable for his publication of the \"Conservation Plan\", which has guided building conservation in Australia and around the world.\n\nKerr undertook a doctorate at the Institute of Advanced Architectural Studies, at the University of York in 1974. In 1978 he took up the position as Assistant Director at the Australian Heritage Commission in Canberra. He was also an assistant director of the National Trust of Australia (NSW).\n\nKerr was prominent in heritage conservation in Australia for over 40 years and was an early member of Australia ICOMOS, taking a major role in the formulation of the Burra Charter and its Guidelines. His publication in 1982 of \"The Conservation Plan: A guide to the preparation of conservation plans for places of European cultural significance\" was a landmark in Australian conservation. \"The Conservation Plan\" is widely used by heritage practitioners and property owners in Australia, and worldwide as a primary guide to the process of researching, documenting and managing historic places in accordance with the Burra Charter, through a logical process. First published by the National Trust of Australia (NSW) in 1982, it has subsequently been reprinted in expanded form over seven editions and twelve printing impressions. The concept has been adopted worldwide as a critical process for conserving heritage places, for example in the British Heritage Lottery Fund guidance note \"Conservation Plans for Historic Places\".\n\nKerr was born on 6 July 1932 in Rockhampton, Queensland, son of grazier James Kerr and Iris (née Rudd), and he and his sisters were raised on Hampden Downs Station. Initially home schooled by his mother, he later attended Toowoomba Preparatory School and then King's School Parramatta. He joined the Royal Australian Naval Volunteer Reserve in 1952, leaving in 1956. He became an accomplished oarsman in Queensland and later NSW state competitions, but missed out narrowly on selection for the 1956 Olympics.\n\nKerr married Joan Lyndon (1938–2004), an art and architectural historian, whom he had met in 1957. They wed on 30 November 1960 at All Saints Anglican Church, Brisbane, moving to Sydney soon after. Kerr was working in management at Qantas at the time. In 1963, Qantas posted Kerr to Geneva, and then to London, where Joan enrolled them both in a history of art course run by Nikolaus Pevsner at Birkbeck College. They returned to Australia in 1968, settling in Cremorne in Sydney. They had two children, a daughter, Tamsin and a son, James.\n\nKerr's wife Joan died in 2004, and James published \"Joan Kerr, A Pictorial Biography, 1938–2004\" in 2006. He also published letters from his son (also James Semple), who worked as an outback stockman.\n\nKerr died on Wednesday 15 October 2014 at Elizabeth Lodge nursing home, Willoughby, New South Wales. His final project had been to catalogue the works of his wife and of his own. His personal papers, along with those of his wife, and records of his family history have been deposited, in bound volumes, in the National Library of Australia in Canberra.\n\nKerr was made Honorary Life Member of the National Trust (NSW) in 1992 and was awarded the NSW National Trust Heritage Award with his wife Joan in 1995, and they received the lifetime achievement award in 2007, and he was made an Honorary Life Member of Australia ICOMOS in 2003 and International Honorary Life Member in 2011. He was also made a Member of the Order of Australia in 1999, \"...for service to heritage conservation through organisations including the Australian International Council on Monuments And Sites, and The New South Wales Branch of the National Trust of Australia\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4238209", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4238209", "title": "Johann Georg von Eckhart", "text": "Johann Georg von Eckhart\n\nJohann Georg von Eckhart (7 September 1664 – 9 February 1730) was a German historian and linguist.\n\nEckhart was born at Duingen in the Principality of Calenberg. After preparatory training at Schulpforta, he went to Leipzig, where at first, at the desire of his mother, he studied theology, but soon turned his attention to philology and history. On completing his course he became secretary to Field-Marshal Count Flemming, chief minister to the Elector of Saxony; after a short time, however, he went to Hannover to find a permanent position.\n\nOwing to his extensive learning he was soon useful to Gottfried Leibniz, who in 1694 took Eckhart as assistant, and was, until death, his large-hearted patron and generous friend. Through the efforts of Leibniz, Eckhart was appointed professor of history at Helmstedt in 1706, and in 1714 councillor at Hannover.\n\nAfter the death of Leibniz he was made librarian and historiographer to the House of Hanover, and was soon after ennobled by Emperor Charles VI, to whom he had dedicated his work \"Origines Austriacae\" (Lipsia 1721 ). For reasons which have never been clearly explained he gave up his position, in 1723, and fled from Hanover, perhaps on account of debt, to the Benedictine monastery at Corvey, and thence to the Jesuits at Cologne, where he became a Catholic.\n\nNot long after this, Johann Philipp von Schönborn, Bishop of Würzburg appointed Eckhart his librarian and historiographer. In his work Eckhart was influenced by the new school of French historians, and gave careful attention to the so-called auxiliary sciences, above all to diplomatics; he also strove earnestly to follow a strictly scientific method in his treatment of historical materials. Together with Leibniz he is considered a founder of modern historiography in Germany.\n\nBesides the help he rendered Leibniz, of whom he edited the \"Collectanea Etymologica\" (1717) and prepared an affectionately respectful obituary (in Christoph Gottlieb von Murr, \"Journal für Kunstgeschichte\", VII), he issued a number of independent works. His chief work, while professor at Helmsted, is his \"Historia studii etymologici linguae germanicae haetenus impensi\" Hanover, 1711), a literary and historical study of all works bearing on the investigation of the Germanic languages. At Hanover he compiled a \"Corpus historicum medii aevi\" (Leipzig, 1723), in two volumes; at Würzburg he published the \"Commentarii de rebus Franciae Orientalis et episcopatus Wirceburgensis\" (1729), also in two volumes.\n\nIn 1725, Eckhart, along with Ignatz Roderick, hoaxed their fellow academic Johann Beringer, at the University of Würzburg, in the \"Lying Stones\" affair.\n\nEckhart died 1730 at Würzburg at 66.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1280816", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1280816", "title": "Johann Jakob Brucker", "text": "Johann Jakob Brucker\n\nJohann Jakob Brucker (; ; 22 January 1696 – 26 November 1770) was a German historian of philosophy.\n\nHe was born at Augsburg. He was destined for the Lutheran Church, and graduated at the University of Jena in 1718. He returned to Augsburg in 1720, but became parish minister of Kaufbeuren in 1723.\nIn 1731 he was elected a member of the Academy of Sciences at Berlin, and was invited to return again to Augsburg as pastor and senior minister of the Church of St. Ulrich.\n\nHe died at Augsburg.\n\nHis chief work, \"Historia Critica Philosophiae\" (\"Critical History of Philosophy\"), appeared at Leipzig (originally 5 vols., 1742–1744). Its success was such that a new edition was published in six volumes (1766–1767; English translation by William Enfield, 1791). It is by this work alone that Brucker is now known. It was the modern era's first complete history of the different philosophical schools. It embodies an ample collection of materials, and contains valuable biographies. Schopenhauer in his advice to read the original writings of philosophers, praised Brucker. He wrote that \"Their real study demands all of a long and studious life, such as the stout-hearted Brucker formerly devoted to them in the industrious times of old (\"Parerga and Paralipomena\", Volume 1, \"Fragments for the History of Philosophy,\" § 1).\"\n\nHe also wrote \"Tentamen Introductionis in Historiam Doctrinae de Ideis\", afterwards completed and republished under the title of \"Historia Philosophicae Doctrinae de Ideis\" (Augsburg, 1723); \"Otium Vindelicum\" (1731); \"Kurze Fragen aus der philosophischen Historiae\" (7 vols., Ulm, 1731–1736), a history of philosophy in question and answer, containing many details, especially in the department of literary history, which he omitted in his chief work; \"Pinacotheca Scriptorum nostra aetate literis illustrium\", etc. (Augsburg, 1741–1755); \"Ehrentempel der deutschen Gelehrsamkeit\" (Augsburg, 1747–1749); \"Institutiones Historiae Philosophicae\" (Leipzig, 1747 and 1756; 3rd ed. with a continuation by F. G. B. Born (1743–1807) of Leipzig, in 1790); \"Miscellanea Historiae Philosophicae Literariae Criticae olim sparsim edita\" (Augsburg, 1748); \"Erste Anfangsgründe der philosophischen Geschichte\" (Ulm, 1751). He superintended an edition of Martin Luther's translation of the Old and New Testament, with a commentary extracted from the writings of the English theologians (Leipzig, 1758–1770, completed by V. A. Teller).\n\n\n"}
{"id": "7528296", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7528296", "title": "Joseph Taylor (actor)", "text": "Joseph Taylor (actor)\n\nJoseph Taylor (died 1652) was a 17th-century English actor. As the successor of Richard Burbage as the leading actor with the King's Men, he was arguably the most important actor in the later Jacobean and the Caroline eras.\n\nTaylor started as a child actor with the Children of the Chapel in the first decade of the century. As he matured he remained in the profession, with the Lady Elizabeth's Men and Prince Charles's Men. With those companies, he developed into an important leading man.\n\nRichard Burbage died in March 1619; Taylor joined the King's Men the next month, and over the coming years he acted all the major roles of the Shakespearean canon. According to James Wright's \"Historia Histrionica\" (1699), Taylor \"acted Hamlet incomparably well\" and was noted for his Iago. He was also famous for the parts of Paris in \"The Roman Actor\" (Philip Massinger), Ferdinand in \"The Duchess of Malfi\" (John Webster), and Mosca in \"Volpone,\" Face in \"The Alchemist,\" and Truewit in \"Epicene\" (all by Ben Jonson). Taylor starred in many King's men plays; he played the protagonists in Massinger's \"The Picture\" and Arthur Wilson's \"The Swisser\"; he was the Duke in Lodowick Carlell's \"The Deserving Favourite\".\n\nTaylor and John Lowin became leaders of the King's Men after the deaths of Henry Condell (1627) and John Heminges (1630). At the same time (1630), Taylor gained a share in the Blackfriars Theatre, and two shares in the Globe. Together with Cuthbert Burbage, Richard Robinson and Winifred (d.1642), his wife, William Heminges, and John Lowin, Taylor filed a Bill of Complaint on 28 January 1632 in the Court of Requests against the owner of the Globe, Sir Matthew Brend, in order to obtain confirmation of an extension of the 31-year lease originally granted by Sir Matthew Brend's father, Nicholas Brend.\n\nHe was one of the King's Men who signed the dedication of the first Beaumont and Fletcher folio of 1647.\n\nTaylor and other King's Men struggled during the Commonwealth period when the theatres were officially closed; they performed when and where they could. On 1 January 1649, Taylor, Lowin, and other company members were arrested while acting \"Rollo Duke of Normandy\" at the Cockpit Theatre. (Taylor played the title role.) They were incarcerated for a short time, then released.\n\nIn 1652 a special publication of John Fletcher's \"The Wild Goose Chase\" was issued; the proceeds went to Lowin and Taylor to relieve their financial need. Taylor and Lowin had played the roles of Belleur and Mirabel in the King's Men's production of the play. \"The Wild Goose Chase\" had been lost and was left out of the first Beaumont and Fletcher folio, then rediscovered and published.\n\nThe date of Taylor's death is not known with certainty, though he was buried on 4 November 1652.\n\nIn the 25 cast lists that were added to the second Beaumont and Fletcher folio of 1679, Taylor is mentioned in 18, for the following plays:\n\n\nHis total is second only to Lowin's 21. The lists for \"The Coxcomb\" and \"The Humorous Lieutenant\" refer to the companies to which Taylor belonged early in his career; the other 16 refer to the King's Men. On 11 of the lists, Taylor is mentioned first, an index of his standing as the company's leading player. (For comparison, Burbage is on seven of the lists, and always in first place.)\n\n"}
{"id": "23018870", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23018870", "title": "Krisztián Ungváry", "text": "Krisztián Ungváry\n\nKrisztián Ungváry (born 30 October 1969) is a Hungarian historian of 20th century political and military history. He wrote about the siege of Budapest in World War II and researched the work of the secret service under the communist period of Hungary.\n\nUngváry is the son of Rudolf Ungváry, a high-ranking employee of the Országos Széchényi Könyvtár, and journalist Éva Monspart. He concluded his high school studies in the II. Rákoczi Ferenc Gimnázium in Budapest between 1984 and 1988. In 1989 he continued his studies on the Eötvös Loránd Tudományegyetem university, specializing in German and History. During his studies, he was a holder of several scholarships, including that of the Republican Scholarship of Hungary. In 1993 he studied in Germany, and finally graduated in 1995 with Grade A results.\n\nOn 15 October 1988, he was amongst the founding members of the Hungarian Boyscout Association.\n\nHe published his most well-known work, \"Budapest ostroma\" (The Siege of Budapest), based on his doctoral dissertation. The book, probably the most through and balanced account of the siege of Budapest written, was highly successful in Hungary and brought Ungváry widespread acknowledgement as a historian. The work was to see six Hungarian, four German, two British and two American edition.\n\nHis area of interest remains 20th century political and military history. In his private life, he is an owner of his private vineyard and producer of wine.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "19892899", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19892899", "title": "Kwäday Dän Ts'ìnchi", "text": "Kwäday Dän Ts'ìnchi\n\nKwäday Dän Ts'ìnchi () (meaning \"Long Ago Person Found\" in Southern Tutchone), or Canadian Ice Man, is a naturally mummified body found in Tatshenshini-Alsek Park in British Columbia, Canada, by a group of hunters in 1999. Radiocarbon dating of artifacts found with the body placed the age of the body at between 300 and 550 years. The find was comparable in condition and scientific value to Ötzi the Iceman, remains dating to 3300 BC that were found in the Ötztal Alps in 1991.\n\nDNA testing of more than 240 volunteers from the local Champagne and Aishihik First Nations revealed 17 persons who are related to the ice man through their direct maternal line. They were excited to have their deep connections to the area affirmed.\n\nThree sheep hunters, Bill Hanlon, Warren Ward and Mike Roch, discovered a number of artifacts and a human body in a melting glacier while hunting near the Yukon border on July 22, 1999 (). The hunters were walking along a glacier, above the tree line, and noticed some bits of wood, which they thought unusual given their location. They examined the wood, and noticed carvings and notches, possibly indicating the wood formed the frame of a backpack. Searching with binoculars, Ward discovered the body in the ice. On August 16, the party reported their find to Beringia Centre staff, and turned in a number of artifacts they collected from the site.\n\nBefore making a public announcement, the Centre notified representatives of the Champagne and Aishihik First Nations, whose historic territory is here. They visited the site and decided to name the person Kwäday Dän Ts'ìnchi, which means \"Long Ago Person Found.\" A team of archeologists was assembled to assess the find, and the First Nations were further consulted about the project. They supported having scientific studies done, including DNA analysis.\n\nThe remains had been dismembered after death, probably by shifting ice due to thermal cracking and slumping along the edge of the glacier. The first part found was the torso, with left arm and mummified hand still attached. The lower body was found a few meters away, with the thighs and muscle still attached. The head was missing, as were the right arm and lower right leg, though his hair, attached to some remnants of the scalp, and some small bones from the right hand and foot were recovered. Soft tissue was present primarily in the torso and thighs. The torso was of particular interest, as gastric contents could be analyzed to yield clues to the days leading up to the man's death. The skull was located in 2003, but was not removed from the site for study.\n\nKwäday Dän Ts’ìnchi represents the oldest well-preserved human remains in North America. The young man was estimated to be approximately 18–19 years old at his time of death. The cause of death is unknown, but there appears to be no sign of serious injury, and hypothermia is a possibility. He died near the onset of the Little Ice Age. An examination of the food in Kwäday Dän Ts’ìnchi's digestive tract reveals that he had traveled a distance of around in the three days prior to his death, from the coastal region up into higher elevations where he was found. Based on pollen found in the contents of his colon, he was traveling in the summer.\n\nKwäday Dän Ts’ìnchi was found with a number of artifacts, including a robe made from 95 pelts of the local arctic ground squirrel (commonly called \"gophers\") subspecies \"Spermophilus parryii plesius\" sewn together with sinew, a woven Tlingit \"zauk-kaht\" (root hat) of split spruce root (probably Sitka spruce), a pouch or small bag of beaver fur containing a mass of lichen, mosses and leaves, gaff poles/walking sticks, sticks for carrying salmon, a curved, hooked stick possibly used for setting snares to catch marmots, a \"Carved and Painted stick\" of unknown purpose, an iron-bladed knife with matching gopher skin sheath, and an atlatl and dart. The use of gopher skins for common household items, robes, and blankets had been important in the past, but the discovery of Kwäday Dän Ts’ìnchi helped revive interest among the Champagne and Aishihik people in teaching and passing on the skills involved, from harvesting the animals to the preparation and the sewing of pelts together. The find also inspired weaving workshops in the Klukwan and Yukon communities for teaching spruce root weaving.\n\nTissue studies revealed that his long-term diet consisted principally of shellfish and salmon, indicating that he was originally from one of the communities near the Pacific Ocean coast; however, hair samples indicated that his diet over the couple of months before his death had been more strongly meat-based than usual, suggesting that he had spent some time inland. His stomach contents included beach asparagus and he was carrying salmon and shellfish with him, suggesting that he had been back at the coast again and was travelling back inland to the Tatshenshini River at the time of his death.\n\nThe tribes allowed samples to be taken for study, including DNA for study. They decided to have his remains cremated and scattered over the area where he was discovered. Local clans are considering a memorial potlatch to honor the ancient man.\n\nIn 2000, mitochondrial DNA tests of 241 area volunteers of the Champagne and Aishihik First Nations revealed 17 living persons who are related to Kwäday Dän Ts’ìnchi through their direct maternal line. Among them were Sheila Clark and Pearl Callaghan, two of seven sisters. Clark said of finding they were related to Long Ago Man, \"It was extremely moving. I couldn't believe it.\" Fifteen of the 17 individuals identify as Wolf clan, suggesting the man may also have belonged to the Wolf clan. In their matrilineal kinship system, children are considered born into their mother's clan. The individuals were split roughly in half between those who lived in coastal areas and those who lived inland, reflecting historic territories of bands.\n\nA partial mitochondrial DNA sequence of Kwäday Dän Ts’ìnchi, containing information on the hypervariable region HVR2, bases 1 to 360, is available in the National Center for Biotechnology Information's genome sequencing database, GenBank, as accession number AF502945.\n\nThe find and studies generated great interest in Kwäday Dän Ts’ìnchi. In June 2005, the findings were discussed at a science conference on \"Rapid Landscape Change\" at Yukon College.\n\n"}
{"id": "3598599", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3598599", "title": "Laws of Burgos", "text": "Laws of Burgos\n\nThe Leyes de Burgos (\"Laws of Burgos\"), promulgated on 27 December 1512 in Burgos, Crown of Castile (Spain), was the first codified set of laws governing the behavior of Spaniards in the Americas, particularly with regard to the Indigenous people of the Americas \"('native Caribbean Indians')\". They forbade the maltreatment of the indigenous people and endorsed their conversion to Catholicism. The laws were created following the conquest and Spanish colonization of the Americas in the West Indies, where the common law of Castile was not fully applicable.\n\nThe scope of the laws was originally restricted to the island of Hispaniola but was later extended to Puerto Rico and Jamaica. These laws authorized and legalized the colonial practice of creating \"Encomiendas\", where Indians were grouped together to work under a colonial head of the estate for a salary, and limited the size of these establishments to between 40 and 150 people. They also established a minutely regulated regime of work, pay, provisioning, living quarters, hygiene, and care for the Indians in a reasonably protective and humanitarian spirit. Women more than four months pregnant were exempted from work.\n\nThe document also prohibited the use of any form of punishment by the \"encomenderos\", reserving it for officials established in each town for the implementation of the laws. It also ordered that the Indians be catechized, outlawed bigamy, and required that the huts and cabins of the Indians be built together with those of the Spanish. It respected, in some ways, the traditional authorities, granting chiefs exemptions from ordinary jobs and granting them various Indians as servants.\n\nThe limited fulfillment of the laws sometimes led to protests and claims. Sometimes they were seen as a legalization of the previously poorer situation, which created momentum for reform, later carried out through the \"Leyes Nuevas\" (\"New Laws\") in 1542, a new set of stricter regulations about life in the New World including the rights of indigenous peoples, as well as the Laws of the Indies, to encompass the Papal bull and all edicts.\n\nCardinal Archbishop Domingo de Mendoza of Seville, heard reports of the abuse of the Americas' Indians and sent a group of Dominican missionaries to Hispaniola to stop the maltreatment. They could not legally stop it, but missionaries made complaints and stirred up a debate that the settlers feared would make them lose their property interests; Fray Antonio de Montesinos preached to the colonists that they were sinning and did not have the right to force the Indians to serve them, claiming they should only be converted to Christianity.\n\nThe colonists disagreed and decided the best way to protect their interests was to come together as a group and choose a Franciscan Friar named Alonso de Espinal to present their case to King Ferdinand II of Aragon and refute Montesinos's accusations. The colonists' plan backfired, though, and the Spanish King was outraged by the cases of maltreatment of the Indians. To solve the moral and legal question, he commissioned a group of theologians and academics to come up with a solution.\n\nDominican Friars, under the sponsorship of Diego de Deza, supported the scientific examination of Christopher Columbus's claims for exploring the West that he presented to the ruling Queen of Castile, Isabel I of Castile and her husband, King of Aragon Ferdinand II of Aragon. After 1508, the friars made the case to defend the aboriginal American Indians from becoming serfs or slaves of the new colonists.\n\nThe friars and other Spanish academics pressured King Ferdinand II of Aragon and his daughter, ruling Queen of Castile, Joanna I of Castile, to pass a set of laws to protect the rights of the natives of the New World, which were to be the 1512 Laws of Burgos. In Burgos, on 27 December 1512, thirty-five laws were put into effect to secure the freedom of the Indigenous peoples of the Americas and to enforce Indian Reductions governing conversions.\n\n1: The Indians are to be moved to \"encomiendas\". For every fifty Indians, four lodges shall be built (thirty by fifteen feet). This land cannot be taken from them since they were taken from their original land. The Indians will do the planting of all of the food. During the proper seasons, the encomenderos (men looking over the Indians) will have the Indians plant corn and raise the hens.\n\n2: The Indians will leave their land voluntarily to come to the \"encomiendas\" so that they shall not suffer from being removed by force.\n\n3: The citizen to whom the Indians are given must erect a structure to be used as a church. In the church must be a picture of Our Lady and a bell with which to call the Indians to prayer time. The person who has them in the \"encomienda\" must go with them to church every night and make sure they cross themselves and sing several hymns. If an Indian does not come to the church, he is not allowed to rest the next day.\n\n4: To make sure the Indians are learning Christianity properly, they shall be tested every two weeks and taught what they do not know by the Encomendero. He shall teach them the Ten Commandments, the Seven Deadly Sins, and the Articles of Faith. Any \"encomendero\" that does not do this properly will be fined six gold pesos.\n\n5: A church will be built equidistant from all estates. On Sundays, Mass shall be observed and a feast will be eaten. If the \"encomendero\" does not bring his Indians, he will be charged ten gold pesos.\n\n6: If The church is too far away, another will be built.\n\n7: The priests who collect tithes from the estates must have priests continually in the churches of the estates.\n\n8: There shall be churches built at the mines so that the Indians working the mines may hear mass on Sundays.\n\n9: Whoever has fifty Indians must choose one boy who the \"encomendero\" thinks is able, to be taught to read and write, and also the importance of Catholicism. This boy will then teach the other Indians because the Indians would more readily accept what the boy says than what the Spaniards says. If the encomendero has one hundred Indians, two boys shall be chosen. The faith must be ingrained into their heads so the souls of the Indians are saved.\n\n10: If an Indian falls sick near where there is a priest, the priest must go to him and recite the Credo and other profitable things of the Catholic faith. The Indian shall make confession without being charged a fee. If the Indian is to die, he shall be buried with a cross near the church. If he is not buried, the \"encomendero\" owes a fine of four gold pesos.\n\n11: The Indians must not be used as carriers for transporting things to the Indians at the mines.\n\n12: All Spanish inhabitants who have Indians in an \"encomienda\" must have the infants baptized within a week of their birth.\n\n13: After the Indians have been brought to the estates, gold shall be searched for as follows: Indians in an \"encomienda\" must search for gold for five months a year and at the end of the five months are allowed to rest for forty days. During the forty days, the Indians are not to be employed, unless they are a slave and accept to plant the crops. During the forty days, the Indians will be further instructed in faith since they have more time to learn.\n\n14: The Indians must be allowed to perform their sacred dances.\n\n15: All citizens who have Indians are required to feed them breads, yams, peppers, and on Sundays feed them dishes of cooked meat. For every offense, a fine of two gold pesos shall be paid.\n\n16: According to Catholicism, the Indians are not allowed to have more than one wife at a time and they are not allowed to abandon their wives.\n\n17: Sons of the chiefs of the Islands who are under the age of thirteen are to be given to the Friars so they can be taught how to read, write, and other things about Catholicism. When the sons reach the age of nineteen, they are to return to the encomienda and teach the others.\n\n18: Pregnant women are not to be sent to the mines or made to plant the crops. They shall be kept on the estate and made to do household duties such as cooking and weeding. After the child is born, she can nurse it until it is three years old. After this time, she can return to the mines and other duties.\n\n19: The Indians should not sleep on the ground. Each \"encomendero\" should provide his Indians with hammocks.\n\n20: The Indians are to be given one gold peso every year to pay for clothing.\n\n21: Indians may not change their masters. One \"encomendero\" cannot employ or house an Indian belonging to another \"encomendero\".\n\n22: The Indian chiefs are allowed two Indians to perform personal duties for every forty of their subjects. Also, visitors to the estates must treat the Indians well and teach them what they know of Catholicism.\n\n23: Official inspectors must keep records of the activities and also the treatment of the Indians in the \"encomiendas\". They must keep track of the population and how much gold is being mined.\n\n24: The Indians are not to be physically or verbally abused for any reason.\n\n25: The Indians are not to be used in private trade or for any other economic interest.\n\n26: \"Encomenderos\" that have their Indians working in distant mines shall combine efforts with other estates to help provide food for the Indians.\n\n27 Indians from other lands must also be taught the things of the Catholic faith. They are to be treated kindly, unless they are slaves.\n\n28: If an \"encomendero\" dies, his successor takes control of the Indians.\n\n29: Two inspectors should be appointed to each Estate.\n\n30. The inspectors are to be chosen by the Admiral, judges, and officers. These people should be compensated by being given Indians in encomienda.\n\n31. Villages should be inspected two times a year, once in the beginning of the year, and once in the summer.\n\n32: If there is a runaway Indian, inspectors cannot apprehend them. They must be given to a man of good conscience who will find the Indians' \"encomendero\".\n\n33: All inspectors should hold a copy of the Laws of Burgos, signed by the Governor.\n\n34: Inspectors must be provided residencias.\n\n35: One person may not have more than one hundred and fifty Indians and no less than forty Indians in encomienda at one time.\n\nAmendments were added to the Laws or Burgos on 28 July 1513.\n\n1: Indian women married to Indian men are not to be forced to serve with their husbands at the mines or anywhere else unless it is by their own free will or unless their husbands wish to take them.\n\n2: Indian children do not have to do the work of adults until the reach the age of fourteen. They are then made to do the tasks of children, like weeding or working in their parents estates.\n\n3: Unmarried Indian women who are under the authority of their parents have to work with them on their lands. Those not under the authority of their parents must be kept apart so they don’t become vagabonds.\n\n4: After two years of service, the Indians are free to go. By this time they will be civilized and proper Christians, able to govern themselves.\n\nBartolomé de Las Casas believed that the New World was granted to Spain and Portugal solely for the conversion of the Native residents. The Indians, he believed, should not be used for other purposes, especially not for profit. The only solution was to remove the presence of the Spanish colonists from the Indians, except for practicing missionaries.\n\nOn 28 July 1513, four more laws were added in what is known today as Leyes Complementarias de Valladolid 1513, three related to Indian women and Indian children and another more related to Indian males. They were operational till 17 November 1526, when the so-called Ordenanzas de Granada 1526 came effective. These new amended laws reflected the theological and political disputes within the Spanish theologians and the intervention of the Roman Catholic Popes advisers included .\n\nThey have been dealt with since the creation of the Council of the Indies, March 1523, by king Charles I of Spain, the son of Queen Joanna I of Castile, \"The Mad\", whose first president was Dominican Friar and Cardinal of the Holy Roman Church since 1530 under pope Clement VII Medici, (1478–1534), a former General of the Dominican Order, 1518–1524, Juan Garcia de Loaysa y Mendoza, (1478–1546), Archbishop of Sevilla, 1539 – 1546.\n\nThe later \"Ordenanzas de Granada,\" 1526, were discussed mainly between king Charles I of Spain and \"Licenciado\" Rodrigo de Figueroa as a consequence of the extensive Institutional Battling promoted by famous Dominican Father Bartolomé de las Casas, an offspring of a merchant family from Seville, dealing in the past with black African slaves brought to the Caribbean islands, apparently, since no less than 1501, borrowing perhaps, in some cases, of the sociological views on \"evangelization\" of renowned Scottish Professor at University of Paris, c. 1510, John Mair, (1467–1550).\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "5942134", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5942134", "title": "Ludwig Darmstaedter", "text": "Ludwig Darmstaedter\n\nLudwig Darmstaedter (9 August 1846 – 18 October 1927) was a German chemist and historian of science.\n\nFrom 1865 he studied chemistry under Robert Bunsen and Emil Erlenmeyer at the University of Heidelberg, then furthered his education in Leipzig as a student of Hermann Kolbe. Afterwards, he relocated to Berlin, where he performed studies on alkali fusion of sulfonic acids in the laboratory of Karl Hermann Wichelhaus. From 1872, with Benno Jaffé, he was involved with industrial chemical research; e.g. glycerin extraction. Later on in his career, he conducted investigations on the composition and synthesis of lanolin.\n\nHis interest in the historical development of chemistry inspired him to compile an extensive collection of manuscripts of scientists (\"Dokumentensammlung Darmstaedter\") in the Prussian State Library at Berlin. Since 1952 the \"Paul Ehrlich- und Ludwig Darmstaedter Preis\" has been awarded in Germany for outstanding contributions in the field of medicine.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "53874767", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53874767", "title": "Marcial Solana González-Camino", "text": "Marcial Solana González-Camino\n\nMarcial Solana González-Camino (1880–1958) was a Spanish scholar, writer and politician. In science he is best known as historian of philosophy and author of a monumental work on 16th century Spanish thinkers, though he contributed also to history, theory of law and theology. In politics he is recognized chiefly as a Traditionalist theorist of state, apart from his rather modest militancy within Integrism and Carlism. Throughout all his life he was also active in various lay Catholic organizations.\n\nThe Solana family was first recorded in the 13th century as related to Liaño, a village currently situated on the outskirts of Santander; members of the local hidalguia, its representatives were later many times noted as civil and religious servants in the region. In the mid-18th the Solanas held already a mayorazgo in the Liaño quarter of Socabarga; the first to settle in the nearby Villaescusa was Marcial’s great-grandfather, Roque de Solana Río. In the early 19th century he already held a number of estates in the province and grew to the Cortes deputy in the 1810s. His son, Pedro Solana Collado (1801-1868), served as infantry colonel and sided with the Carlists during the First Carlist War; exiled, in the 1840s he returned following the amnesty, but engaged in Carlist conspiracy of 1855. Married in 1846, he built a house on the Rosequillo estate in La Concha de Villaescusa. His son and Marcial’s father, Marcial Rufo Solana González-Camino (1847-1885), multiplied the family wealth trading flour in Cuba; upon return to Spain in 1879 he married a cousin, Elvira Irene González-Camino de Velasco (1861-1939), herself descendant to a well-to-do Cantabrian bourgeoisie family.\n\nThough Marcial Rufo and Irene held a number of estates, they lived mostly at calle Calderon 5 in Santander. They had only two children, Marcial’s sister born posthumously; the siblings were raised in a fervently Catholic ambience. In 1890 Marcial Augusto Justino took entry exams to Instituto de Segunda Ensañanza of Santander, but for unclear reasons he pursued curriculum with the Jesuits in Orduña; he obtained bachillerato, confirmed by Instituto de Bilbao, in 1896. The same year he entered the Jesuit Deusto institute; in 1899 he graduated sobresaliente in Filosofia y Letras and in 1902, also sobresaliente, in law. Spared military service he commenced doctoral research in Madrid. In 1904 Solana obtained PhD laurels – sobresaliente – in law, and in 1906 he paired it – always sobresaliente – with the one in philosophy, also in Madrid. \n\nThough scholar in law, Solana did not enter Colegio de Abogados and did not practice, all the same some press titles referred to him as \"ilustrado abogado\". He commenced professional career neither. A wealthy man who inherited a number of plots, 56 in the Santander province alone, he lived off the land rent. Owner of a number of mansions dubbed palacios, the key ones in Esles, Socabarga and Villaescusa, Solana lived mostly in Santander, in the last decades of his life spending summers in his favorite estate, Granja Santa María in Vizcaínos de la Sierra, in the Burgos province. He has never married and had no children. His biographer claims Solana led an austere life, spending money on books, travelling and investments in his rural economy, though in the 1920s he was noted as one of few cars owners in the Santander province. Solana’s best known relative was his maternal cousin, José Luis Zamanillo, a Carlist and Francoist politician known mostly in the 1960s and 1970s.\n\nThere were many Carlist antecedents in Solana’s family; his grandfather served in the legitimist troops during the First Carlist War, while his maternal grand-uncle was a Carlist deputy in the 1860s and soldier during the Third Carlist War. In the late 1880s both sided with the secessionist Integrist branch, joined by Marcial’s maternal uncle, José Zamanillo Monreal, who in the 1890s became the Integrist leader in Cantabria. In absence of his late father, it was Velasco and Zamanillo who formatted Marcial along the Integrist pattern. Initially he did not engage in politics and since academic years got very active in Catholic initiatives; also following return from Madrid to Santander Solana continued on the same path. He entered Adoración Nocturna, in 1907 co-founded Centro Católico Electoral, was Secretario in Juntas de Acción Católica y Defensa Social, presided over Sindicato Católico Agrario, engaged in 1908 Jubileo Sacerdotal of Pío X and joined . In 1908 he entered Federación Agrícola Montañesa.\n\nIn 1908 Solana was first noted as speaking in public. In 1909 he became concejal of the Villaescusa ayuntamiento and in 1910 was elected alcalde of La Concha, noted for introducing fines for offences to religion and morality. Active in the Integrist Centro Católico Montañés, also in 1910 he ran as its representative and a Catholic candidate to the Cortes, defining his political objective as \"la instauración del reinado de Cristo en todos los órdenes de la vida nacional\". Having lost Solana remained active as local Integrist speaker. In the successive 1914 elections he initially agreed to stand as a Catholic candidate, but there is no information on him actually running. In 1916 he competed as a joint Catholic Integrist-Carlist candidate supported also by the Mauristas and the Conservatives and emerged triumphant. In his 2-year-term Solana was noted only for budget amendments favoring the Church. There is no information on him standing in the 1918 campaign, though in the 1919 one he was initially reported as running for the lower and upper chamber. In 1920 he was noted as taking part in electoral meeting with no information related to the 1923 elections.\n\nIn the late 1910s Solana emerged among nationwide Integrist activists, in the 1920s starting to publish front-page pieces in key Integrist paper, \"El Siglo Futuro\". Locally he was member of the Santander Junta Provincial and president of the municipal Junta, heading local party sessions and appearing at public gatherings alike; in the early 1920s he commenced another string as mayor of Villaescusa. When Primo de Rivera’s coup brought political life to a standstill Solana withdrew into scientific work, in public restraining himself to Catholic activities. Nominated caballero of the Malta Order, in the mid-1920s he contributed to Asamblea Eucarística in Burgos, by the end of the decade engaging in Acción Católica. Attending its first Congreso Nacional of 1929, in 1929-1930 Solana spoke at different AC conferences nationwide. Cardenal Segura suggested his entry into Academia Pontífica de Ciencias, the plan which has never materialized.\n\nSolana maintained correct relations with the Carlists and in Santanderine institutions went with them well, though noted also that \"nuestra bandera es muy anterior y muy superior\". Upon the 1931 declaration of the Republic he co-led the Integrist fraction advocating integration with Carlism and presided over the joint Integrist-Jaimist meeting in Cantabria, which finalized return to the \"vieja mansión\" of orthodox Carlism. Within the united Comunión Tradicionalista he initially did not land major posts, noted rather for activity as speaker across Spain, giving erudite lectures about Traditionalism though rather seldom noted in the press as a key speaker.\n\nIn the mid-1930s Solana became one of key Carlist theorists, referred to as \"maestro del tradicionalismo\". In 1934 the claimant nominated him to Consejo de Cultura, guardians of the orthodoxy; some scholars list him among \"cupola tradicionalista\". In 1934 Solana served as legal expert to his king. In three letters he addressed the succession issue, responding to Alfonso Carlos’ attempt to sort out the question of what happens after his death; Solana’s opinion was that the claimant was not free to appoint his successor and that an assembly of representatives had to participate in the process, the advice which might have heavily contributed to the regentialist solution eventually adopted. In terms of present-day politics Solana was among key advocates of close monarchist collaboration within Acción Española; his study on right to resistance, often referred as pre-configuration of the 1936 coup, was published in the AE review.\n\nIt is not clear whether Solana was aware of Carlist preparations to the coup, though he was aware that he might be among first targets of revolutionary violence; on his estates he maintained two secret hideouts. In unclear circumstances in late August 1936 he crossed the French frontier but soon returned and spent 1937 in Valle de Baztan, following the Nationalist seizure of Cantabria returning to his Rosequillo estate. He is not listed as active member of the Carlist executive, yet it is known he sided with Fal against the . Some scholars suspect he was instrumental in drafting the 1939 memorandum to Franco, which demanded restoration of Traditionalist monarchy; in the early 1940s he was fined as engaged in technically illegal Comunión structures.\n\nSolana is hardly mentioned as busy in day-to-day party activity in the 1940s, though some scholars claim that as theorist he was absolutely vital for maintaining Carlist spiritual identity as opposed to the Francoist amalgamation, including drafting another memorandum, dated 1945. He might have attended some meetings of Junta Nacional and he surely attended the 1947 gathering of regional jefes, the first one after 1937. In 1951 he managed to publish \"El tradicionalismo político español y la ciencia hispana\", the study completed in 1938; until today it is considered one of the most in-depth lectures of Traditionalism and perhaps the most important Solana’s contribution to both Traditionalism and Carlism. It also marked the climax of his engagement: in the 1950s Solana abandoned militancy and focused on scientific and Catholic duties.\n\nSolana dedicated most of his scholarly attention to philosophy and though he fathered other attempts mostly in theology, he excelled as historian. The question underlying most of his efforts is about existence of filosofía española, a category bearing features specific to the Spanish realm. His answer was to the affirmative. It was founded on assertion that a specifically Spanish philosophical approach was formulated in the 16th century, deemed Siglo de Oro, and owing its constituting features to Juan Luis Vives, Francisco de Vitoria, Francisco Suárez, Domingo de Soto and Domingo Báñez. It comprised a multitude of trends, yet its backbone was the late scholastic school spanned between vivismo and suarismo; it gave rise to a number of currents which were to power the Spanish philosophy later on, including logic, natural law, penal law, international law, ontology and their synthesis.\n\nSolana approached the Golden Age heritage very much in the menendezpelayista manner, as multifold manifestations of orthodoxy confronting heterodoxy up to the 19th century, embodied last in works of Luis de Lossada, Jaime Balmes and Ceferino González. He viewed the essence of original Spanish philosophy in unity with theology, fidelity to Catholic values and synthetic, holistic approach; the Spanish self was expressed in unity with God. He preferred metaphysics and epistemology to other branches; the names quoted in his works most often are those of Aquinas and Menendez Pelayo. On the opposite end were the Liberal thinkers, even the iconic ones, and his references to Unamuno or Ortega y Gasset are extremely rare; similarly he displayed scarce interest in foreign philosophers.\n\nSolana fathered some 60 works related to philosophy and theology; most are minor pieces. His opus magnum, not only in philosophy, is \"La Historia de la Filosofía Española. Época del Renacimiento\", a massive 3-volume work written in 1928-1933 and published in 1941; a stepping stone towards it was an earlier 1927 study. A much smaller work dubbed synthesis of his thought was \"Fueron los españoles quienes elevaron la filosofía Escolástica a la perfección\" (1955). Another huge work is a massive treaty on juridical systems according to the Thomist epistemology (1925). Next to be listed are mid-size studies on scholastic thinkers, followed by smaller works on scholastics and traditionalists. Solana published some 30 smaller works on theology, summarized as falling into \"corrientes tomista, ignaciana y carmelitana\"; apart from historical work on Council of Trent they dealt with dogmas of Trinity, Ascension, Eucharist and sovereignty of Christ. His sole major work which falls neither to history of philosophy nor to theology is an unpublished mid-size study \"La libertad del hombre\" (1947), discussing conditions, attributes, types and objectives of human freedom to act; set in the Catholic orthodoxy, it opposed the Liberal concept of liberty and claimed that \"la facultad de elegir entre el bien y el mal moral, de obrar rectamente o de pecar, es un absurdo verdadero e inaceptable'. Few works do not fit into above categories and few are translations.\n\nSolana’s political theory consists of a typical Traditionalist scheme and is rooted in classic Traditionalist works. The objective of politics is \"soberanía social de Dios\", while the means is a regime founded on three principles. The first one is \"monarquía hereditaria\". The second one is \"monarquía templada\", i.e. royal powers moderated by collegial bodies representing the society. The third one is \"descentralización y autarquía\", i.e. far-reaching self-government of \"intra-sovereign entities\", communities organized on geographical, professional, functional or any other basis. Solana’s own contribution is described as picking Traditionalist doctrine up where de Mella left off and developing it to confront totalitarian theories emerging in the 1920s and 1930s.\n\nSolana’s thought contained a strong anti-tyrannical thread, embodied already in the concept of a moderated monarchy; he also largely ignored his rival to the title of key party pundit, Víctor Pradera, whose thought endorsed dictatorial solutions. During the Republic Solana produced a treaty on the right to resist and to overthrow a despotic regime. However, an entirely new element introduced to Traditionalism was spelling out its incompatibility with totalitarian concepts. He went to great lengths denouncing Soviet, Fascist and Nazi regimes, claiming that the tyranny and deification of state which they introduce, combined with excessive nationalism, render them \"irreconcilable Traditionalist enemies\". Manuscript of his key theoretical work, completed in 1938, in its epilogue contained a veiled warning to Franco; it noted that Traditionalists would never support a regime based on foreign ideas, lamented \"espantosa guerra civil que desangra a la Patria\" and feared \"que tanta sangre y tantas ruínas y tantas desgracias\" might turn useless.\n\nLike some Traditionalists, Solana welcomed democracy though he understood it simply as a principle of representation. Other a bit unorthodox piece of his concepts were references to \"derechos del hombre\", praise of religious and educational liberties (though \"rectamente entendida\" and \"para fínes lícitos\"), notes that a human was the end and not the means and that \"sociedad es para el hombre y no al revés\". Some of his writings contain highly exalted passages on exceptional role of the Spaniards, comments resemblant of typical nationalist discourse and quite atypical for Traditionalism. Finally, as member of the movement which prided itself on belligerent past Solana was unusually bold in condemnation of \"espiritú de violencia\"; though he applied it mostly to foreign ideas, he was also careful to note that notorious \"Traditionalist intransigency\" had its limits. Last but not least, he considered himself a Traditionalist rather than a Carlist.\n\nAs political theorist Solana was not a prolific writer. His legacy consists of one major work, \"El Tradicionalismo político español y la ciencia hispana\", written in 1937-1938 and published in 1951; it contains his vision of Traditionalist regime discussed against the Spanish theoretical background. The next to be listed is a mid-size treaty \"La resistencia a la tiranía\" (1933), followed by some 10 small and very small pieces. Out of these one should single out unpublished letters to Alfonso Carlos, in fact legal treaties on Carlist succession rules.\n\nSolana published some 40 works on history, mostly minor press articles he contributed from the 1910s to the 1950s. None of them is of general importance; his historiographic works which stand out are two mid-size biographical studies and two heraldic dissertations, followed by a number of smaller essays. Apart from his PhD thesis in law he did not contribute to juridical science. A separate section of his heritage are small and mid-size works related to Marcelino Menendez Pelayo, the scholar Solana considered his master.\n\nApart from writing, Solana contributed to Spanish culture and science as manager, administrator and activist. In the 1920s he entered Sociedad Menéndez Pelayo and started contributing to its \"Boletín\", in 1940 becoming member of Junta Directiva. In 1934 he co-founded Centro de Estudios Montañes, nominated member of the board and jefe of sección de biografía; in 1939 he grew to vice-president and in 1940 to president. Since the 1930s he took part in works of Asociación Española para el Progreso de las Ciencias. In 1940 Solana entered Consejo Superior de Investigaciones Científicas. In 1945 he was invited to join Real Academia de Ciencias Morales y Políticas as académico correspondiente, admitted in 1951 upon his address \"Fueron los españoles quienes elevaron la Filosofía escolástica a la perfección\". In 1951 he was nominated Cronista del Real Valle de Villaescusa. In the 1950s he became a member of numerous provincial Santander bodies: Patronato de las Cuevas Prehistóricas, provincial Consejo de Cultura, Universidad de Verano and Colegio Cántabro. Though not particularly active beyond his native Cantabria, at times Solana was recorded as delivering lectures – usually related to 16th-century Spanish philosophy – to scholarly and semi-scholarly audiences elsewhere.\n\nAn entirely different thread is incessant Solana’s activity in religious organizations. Already during his academic years he was engaged in Apostolado de la Oración, Congregación de la Inmaculada y San Luis Gonzaga, Academia de Literatura Práctica de San Luis Gonzaga and Congregación Universal de la Casa Santa de Loreto. In the 1920s he entered the Malta Order, contributed to various religious assemblies, excelled in ACNDP and Acción Católica; in the 1930s he was considered prospective member of Academia Pontífica de Ciencias. In the 1940s he limited himself to co-operation with the local Santander hierarchy, e.g. entering Comisión Ejecutiva for various reconstruction works; in the 1950s he acted as attorney for some real estates, held by the Santander diocese. Last but not least, he contributed financially to renovating local temples.\n\nSome Solana's works were rewarded in the mid-1920s; his first major honor was the 1927 Premio de Torreánaz, awarded by RACMYP. \"Historia de la Filosofía\" was commenced as a response to grand competition to complete history of Spanish philosophy, launched by Asociación Española para el Progreso de las Ciencias; the work was submitted in 1933 and declared victorious in April 1936, earning Premio Echegaray. In the scholarly realm the reception was overwhelmingly positive, though with many reservations. Solana’s position was already established; formal confirmation came with the 1945 invitation to RACMYP. Starting the 1950s Solana’s work on Renaissance Spanish philosophy became a must-have reference of any work dealing with history of Spanish philosophy and some works covering Siglo de Oro seem based exclusively on Solana’s study, though not all credited him. According to some, no better work has been written until today.\n\nExcept necrological note Solana himself started earning brief biographical notes in the 1970s; he is acknowledged in most dictionaries and encyclopedias of Spanish philosophy, though there are few exceptions. Beyond the realm of specialists, he remained largely forgotten. He earned his first and so far the only monograph in the 2012 PhD thesis of his distant relative. The work provides an all-round discussion of Solana, yet it clearly focuses on his work as historian of philosophy. Solana’s theory of state went into almost total oblivion; even within the Traditionalist and Carlist realm it is entirely overshadowed by later works of Elías de Tejada and Gambra. Founders of the Left-wing Partido Carlista dismissed it as \"escrito con una mentalidad reaccionaria\".\n\nBeyond specialists in Golden Age philosophers or in Traditionalism, in historiography and political science Solana is known mostly in relation to his 1933 article, discussing views of the Siglo de Oro theorists on tyrannical rule. Referred to by both English and Spanish scholars as \"lay theologian/teólogo seglar\", he is noted for \"legitimization of the 1936 coup\". Not infrequently he is singled out among most prominent theorists who \"used Aquinas\" and \"produced theological justifications for the violent overthrow of the Republic\", \"argued that violence against the Republic was justified\", instigated anti-Semitism by disseminating the idea \"that there was a Jewish-Masonic-Bolshevik plot” and \"the political left had thus to be annihilated at all cost\". The article provided rationale for counting Solana among architects of \"the Spanish Holocaust\" and \"theorists of extermination\".\n\nIn his last will Solana marked funds and a large Villaescusa plot for Fundación Marcial Solana, entrusted with setting up a college in La Concha. The task has not been completed and currently the estate hosts Centro de Estudios de la Administración Regional de Cantabria. Other plots in La Concha, owned by his heirs, were expropriated in the late 1970s; it is not clear whether naming a new kindergarten and primary education establishment opened in the early 1980s, Centro de Educación Infantil y Primaria Marcial Solana, was compensation or remained otherwise related to the expropriation deal. Currently the Centro staff is militantly engaged in promoting progressive gender theories.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "190963", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=190963", "title": "Maximilian Wolfgang Duncker", "text": "Maximilian Wolfgang Duncker\n\nMaximilian Wolfgang Duncker (15 October 1811 – 21 July 1886) was a German historian and politician.\n\nDuncker was born in Berlin, Province of Brandenburg, as the eldest son of the publisher Karl Duncker. He studied at the universities of Bonn and Berlin till 1834, was then accused of participation in the students' societies, which the government was endeavouring to suppress, and was condemned to six years' imprisonment, afterwards reduced to six months. He had already begun his labours as a historian, but after serving his sentence in 1837, found himself debarred till 1839 from completing his course at Halle, where in 1842 he obtained a professorship.\n\nElected to the Frankfurt Parliament in 1848, he joined the Right Centre party, and was chosen reporter of the projected constitution. He sat in the Erfurt assembly in 1850, and in the second Prussian chamber from 1849 to 1852. During the crisis in Schleswig and Holstein in 1850 he endeavoured in person to aid the duchies in their struggles. An outspoken opponent of the policy of Manteuffel, he was refused promotion by the Prussian government, and in 1857 accepted the professorship of history at Tübingen. In 1859, however, he was recalled to Berlin as assistant in the ministry of state in the cabinet of Charles Anthony, Prince of Hohenzollern. At that time, Rudolf von Auerswald, a minister without portfolio, led the government in all but name. In 1861 was appointed councillor to the crown prince. In 1867 he became director of the Prussian archives, with which it was his task to incorporate those of Hanover, Hesse and Nassau. He retired on 1 January 1875, and died at Ansbach.\n\nDuncker's eminent position among German historians rests mainly on his \"\"Geschichte des Alterthums\" (1st edition, 1852–1857; English translation by Evelyn Abbott, 1877–1882). He edited, with J.G. Droysen, \"Preussische staatsschriften aus der regierungszeit König Friedrichs II\", and \"Urkunden und Actenstucke zur Geschichte des Kurfürsten Friedrich Wilhelm von Brandenburg\"\".\nTo the period of his political activity belong:\nHis other works include:\n\n"}
{"id": "33501909", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33501909", "title": "Michael Geddes", "text": "Michael Geddes\n\nMichael Geddes LL.D. (1650?–1713) was a Scottish clergyman of the Church of England and historian.\n\nHe was born in Scotland about 1650, and educated at the University of Edinburgh, where he took the degree of M.A. in 1668. He was incorporated at Oxford on 11 July 1671, as one of the first four Scots who benefited by Bishop John Warner's exhibitions intended for Balliol College. These scholars were first placed in Gloucester Hall, but in 1672 they were moved to Balliol.\n\nIn 1678 Geddes went to Lisbon as chaplain to the English factory. In 1686 he was forbidden by the Inquisition to continue his functions, although he pleaded a traditional privilege, founded on the treaty between England and Portugal. The English merchants wrote immediately to Henry Compton, bishop of London, to assert their rights; but before their letter reached its destination Geddes was suspended by the ecclesiastical commissioners appointed by James II. Matters had to await the arrival of Charles Scarborough, the English envoy, and Geddes returned in May 1688 to England.\n\nGilbert Burnet as bishop of Salisbury collated Geddes to the chancellorship of his cathedral on 12 June 1691. The Lambeth degree of LL.D. was conferred on Geddes, 16 April 1695, by Archbishop Thomas Tenison. He died in the early part of 1713.\n\nHis works are: \n\n\n"}
{"id": "14425965", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14425965", "title": "Olive Dickason", "text": "Olive Dickason\n\nOlive Patricia Dickason (1920–2011) was a Métis Canadian historian and journalist. She was a key figure in the study of Aboriginal history in Canada's academic world.\n\nDickason was born on 6 March 1920 in Winnipeg, Manitoba, to parents Frank Leonard Williamson and Phoebe Philomena Côté. Her family moved to the Interlake region after losing everything they owned during the Great Depression. Aged 12, she, her sister Alice, and her mother Phoebe went trapping and fishing to provide food for the family. \"Living in the bush as I did during my adolescent years, I very soon learned that survival depended upon assessing each situation as it arose, which calls for common sense and realism\", said Olive. \"You neither give up nor play games.\" Encouraged by her mentor, the priest Athol Murray, she decided to finish high school in Saskatchewan, prior to pursuing post-secondary education. She completed a Bachelor of Arts degree in French and philosophy at Notre Dame College, an affiliate of the University of Ottawa.\n\nShe first became aware of her Métis ancestry as a young adult upon meeting some Métis relatives in Regina.\n\nDickason had three daughters: Anne, Clare, and Roberta. Olive Dickason died on 12 March 2011, one week after her 91st birthday.\n\nShe began a 24-year career in journalism at the \"Regina Leader-Post\" and subsequently, worked as a writer and editor at the \"Winnipeg Free Press\", the \"Montreal Gazette\", and \"The Globe and Mail\". She promoted coverage of First Nations and women's issues.\n\nIn 1970, aged 50, she entered the graduate program at the University of Ottawa. She had to struggle with faculty preconceptions regarding Aboriginal history – including arguments that it did not exist – before finally finding a professor, Cornelius Jaenen, to act as her academic advisor. \"I was lucky ... [a] Belgian fellow, who didn't know much about Native people, but knew a lot about discrimination, took up my cause, and the university eventually admitted me.\" She completed her master's degree at the University of Ottawa with the thesis \"Louisburg and the Indians: A Study in Imperial Race Relations, 1713–1760\" two years later, and her PhD in 1977. Her doctoral thesis, entitled \"The Myth of the Savage\", was eventually published as were \"Canada's First Nations: A History of Founding Peoples from the Earliest Times\" and \"The Native Imprint: The Contribution of First Peoples to Canada's Character -- Volume 1: to 1815\" (1995), which she edited. In addition she also wrote \"Indian Arts in Canada\", which won three awards for conception and design and coauthored \"The Law of Nations and the New World\".\n\nDickason taught at the University of Alberta from 1976 to 1992. She retired from this professorship when she was 72, after fighting the mandatory retirement at age 65. Dickason filed a complaint with the Alberta Human Rights Commission against the University of Alberta, claiming its mandatory retirement policy was a violation of the Alberta Individual's Rights Protections Act. Dickason won her case in the human rights board of inquiry and the Alberta Queen's Bench, but lost in the Alberta Court of Appeal and then in the Supreme Court of Canada, the latter by a 4–3 split among the judges. Her time as a professor and her significant contributions to the literature of history in Canada have influenced a whole generation of scholars, and will continue to be the basis for much historical work done in the future.\n\nOlive was awarded the Order of Canada in 1996, and was the recipient of the Aboriginal Achievement Award, now the Indspire Awards, in 1997. She has also been the recipient of numerous honorary doctorates throughout the years.\n\n"}
{"id": "172232", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=172232", "title": "Oltenia", "text": "Oltenia\n\nOltenia (, also called Lesser Wallachia in antiquated versions, with the alternate Latin names \"Wallachia Minor\", \"Wallachia Alutana\", \"Wallachia Caesarea\" between 1718 and 1739) is a historical province and geographical region of Romania in western Wallachia. It is situated between the Danube, the Southern Carpathians and the Olt river.\n\nInitially inhabited by Dacians, Oltenia was incorporated in the Roman Empire (106, at the end of the Dacian Wars; \"see Roman Dacia\"). In 129, during Hadrian's rule, it formed Dacia Inferior, one of the two divisions of the province (together with Dacia Superior, in today's Transylvania); Marcus Aurelius' administrative reform made Oltenia one of the three new divisions (\"tres Daciae\") as Dacia Malvensis, its capital and chief city being named Romula. It was colonized with veterans of the Roman legions. The Romans withdrew their administration south of the Danube at the end of the 3rd century and Oltenia was ruled by the \"foederati\" Germanic Goths. In the late 4th century Oltenia came under the rule of the Taifals before invasion by the Huns.\n\nFrom 681, with some interruptions, it was part of the Bulgarian Empire (see Bulgarian lands across the Danube).\n\nIn 1233, the Kingdom of Hungary formed the Banate of Severin in the eastern part of the region that would persist until the 1526 Battle of Mohács.\n\nAround 1247 a polity emerged in Oltenia under the rule of Litovoi. The rise of the mediaeval state of Wallachia followed in the 14th century, and the voivode (Prince of Wallachia) was represented in Oltenia by a ban - \"the Great Ban of Craiova\" (with seat in Craiova after it was moved from Strehaia). This came to be considered the greatest office in Wallachian hierarchy, and one that was held most by members of the Craiovești family, from the late 15th century to about 1550. The title would continue to exist up until 1831.\n\nDuring the 15th century, Wallachia had to accept the Ottoman suzerainty and to pay an annual tribute to keep its autonomy as a vassal. From the Craiovești family, many bans cooperated with the Turks. However, many rulers, including the Oltenian-born Michael the Brave, fought against the Ottomans, giving Wallachia brief periods of independence.\n\nAfter 1716, the Ottomans decided to cease choosing the voivodes from among the Wallachian boyars, and to appoint foreign governors. As the governors were Orthodox Greeks living in Phanar, Constantinople, this period is known as the Phanariote regime.\n\nTwo years later, in 1718 under the terms of the Treaty of Passarowitz, Oltenia was split from Wallachia and annexed by the Habsburg Monarchy (\"de facto\", it was under Austrian occupation by 1716); in 1737, it was returned to Wallachia under Prince Constantine Mavrocordatos (\"see Austro-Turkish War of 1716–1718 and Austro-Russian–Turkish War (1735–1739)\"). Under the occupation, Oltenia was the only part of the Danubian Principalities (with the later exception of Bukovina) to experience Enlightened absolutism and Austrian administration, although these were met by considerable and mounting opposition from conservative boyars. While welcomed at first as liberators, the Austrians quickly disenchanted the inhabitants by imposing rigid administrative, fiscal, judicial and political reforms which were meant to centralize and integrate the territory (antagonizing both ends of the social spectrum: withdrawing privileges from the nobility and enforcing taxes for peasants).\n\nIn 1761, the residence of Bans was moved to Bucharest, in a move towards centralism (a \"kaymakam\" represented the boyars in Craiova). It remained there until the death of the last Ban, Barbu Văcărescu, in 1832.\n\nIn 1821, Oltenia and Gorj County were at the center of Tudor Vladimirescu's uprising (\"see Wallachian uprising of 1821\"). Vladimirescu initially gathered his Pandurs in Padeș and relied on a grid of fortified monasteries such as Tismana and Strehaia.\n\nThe traditional heraldic symbol of Oltenia, also understood to represent Banat, is part of the coat of arms of Romania (lower \"dexter\"): on \"gules\" field, an \"or\" lion rampant, facing \"dexter\", holding a sword, and standing over an \"or\" bridge (Apollodorus of Damascus Bridge at Drobeta Turnu Severin) and stylised waves.\n\nOltenia is part of the Sud - Vest development region. It entirely includes the counties:\nand parts of the counties:\n\nOltenia's main city and seat for a majority of the late Middle Ages is Craiova. The first medieval seat of Oltenia was Turnu Severin, anciently called Dobreta, in the Banate of Severin. That city is located near the site of Trajan's Bridge, built by Apollodorus of Damascus for Emperor Trajan in his conquest of the region.\n\n"}
{"id": "7733841", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7733841", "title": "Omaira Rojas Cabrera", "text": "Omaira Rojas Cabrera\n\nAnayibe Rojas Valderrama, also known as Omaira Rojas Cabrera (nom de guerre: Sonia) born in the Colombian town of Palestina, Huila Department, on June 16, 1967. She comes from a low-income peasant family and had only completed two years of middle school before joining the FARC guerrilla by the late 1980s.\n\nShe was captured by the Colombian Military on February 10, 2004 in a location called Peñas Coloradas, jurisdiction in the Municipality of Cartagena de Chairá and was taken to the Larandia AB to be interrogated mainly about the three Americans the FARC had kidnapped and about FARC's Secretariat. She was later transferred to many other locations for security reasons.\n\nThe United States accused \"Sonia\" of directly negotiating illegal drugs deliveries to Peruvian and Brazilian drug traffickers.\nSonia was handed to U.S. officials on March 9, 2004 at Barranquilla's Airport in northern Colombia.\n\nOn February 20, 2007, Sonia was convicted of drug charges in a Washington D.C. court.\n\n"}
{"id": "2086947", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2086947", "title": "Papal shoes", "text": "Papal shoes\n\nThe Papal shoes were the red leather outdoor shoes worn by the Pope. They should not be confused with the indoor Papal Slippers or the Episcopal sandals, which are the liturgical footwear proper to all ordained Catholic bishops of the Latin Rite.\n\nAs did many noblemen, the Pope wore slippers (\"pantofole\") inside his residences and leather shoes outside. The indoor Papal Slippers were made of red velvet or silk and were heavily decorated in gold braid, with a gold cross in the middle.\n\nThroughout Church history, the color red has been deliberately chosen to represent the blood of Catholic martyrs spilt through the centuries following in the footsteps of Christ. The red papal shoes are also linked to Christ's own bloodied feet as he was prodded, whipped, and pushed along the Via Dolorosa on his way to his crucifixion, culminating in the piercing of his hands and feet on the cross. The red shoes also symbolize the submission of the Pope to the ultimate authority of Jesus Christ. Beyond this, it is said the red papal shoes also signify God’s burning love for humanity as exhibited during Pentecost when red vestments are worn to commemorate the descent of the Holy Spirit upon the apostles as tongues of fire rest upon their heads. \n\nBefore 1969, the Pope, like all bishops and prelates, wore episcopal sandals during the Mass. The color of the Episcopal sandals varied to match the liturgical color of the Mass.\n\nThe Papal outdoor shoes were made of plain red Morocco leather and had a wide cross in gold braid. The cross once extended across the shoe and down to the sole. In the eighteenth century the ends of the cross were shortened, as shown in the photo of Pius VII's shoes. This old-fashioned type of dress shoe is very thin-soled and is sometimes called \"pantofola liscia\" or smooth slipper model.\n\nAfter 1958, Pope John XXIII added gold buckles to the outdoor papal shoes, making them similar to the red shoes worn by cardinals outside of Rome. Pope Paul VI eliminated the gold cross and completely discontinued the custom of kissing the papal foot. Paul VI can be seen wearing red buckled shoes in photographs from his 1964 trip to Jerusalem. In 1969, Paul VI abolished buckles from all ecclesiastical shoes, which had been customarily required at the Papal Court and for prelates. He also discontinued the use of the indoor velvet papal slippers and the Paschal mozzetta and shoes. Paul VI wore plain red leather shoes throughout the rest of his pontificate. Pope John Paul I, who was pope for only 33 days, continued wearing the plain red leather shoes worn by Paul VI. Early in his pontificate Pope John Paul II wore red shoes; however he later adopted wearing brown shoes. Paul VI, John Paul I, and John Paul II were buried in the red leather papal shoes.\n\nPope Benedict XVI restored the use of the red papal shoes, which were provided by his personal cobbler, Adriano Stefanelli of Novara, who has several pictures and documents in his shoe-shop attesting the fact. In 2008, Pope Benedict XVI also restored the use of the white damask silk Paschal mozzetta, which was previously worn with white silk slippers.\n\nPope Francis has chosen to wear black shoes, forgoing the tradition for his papacy.\n\nThe papal shoes, along with the camauro, papal mozzetta, and cloak (tabarro), are the only remnants of the former red color of the papal garments. Pope St. Pius V (1566 - 1572), who was a Dominican, changed the papal color to white by continuing to wear the white color of his Dominican religious order, and it has remained so since.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "782544", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=782544", "title": "Paris Opera Ballet", "text": "Paris Opera Ballet\n\nThe Paris Opera Ballet (French: \"Ballet de l'Opéra national de Paris\") is an integral part of the Paris Opera and the oldest national ballet company. Together with the Mariinsky Ballet, Moscow Bolshoi Ballet and the London Royal Ballet it is regarded as one of the four most preeminent ballet companies in the world.\n\nSince August 2016 the company has been under the direction of Aurélie Dupont, the \"Directrice de la Danse\".\n\nThe ballet company consists of 154 dancers, among them 17 Danseurs Étoiles. The principal dancers give 180 dance performances each year, primarily at the Palais Garnier.\n\nJust as prestigious as the Paris Opera Ballet is its dance school, the Paris Opera Ballet School (French: \"École de danse de l'Opéra national de Paris\"), considered as one of the world's best dance school. Its former pupils have won a record of 20 Benois de la Danse awards. The school celebrated its tercentennial in 2013.\n\nThe competition for admission to both institutions is extremely fierce. To be admitted there, to pass the annual competitive examinations in May, and to attend at least the final two classes is basically compulsory for dancers entering the Paris Opera Ballet.\n\nAs its Ballet School is excellent and graduates many young dancers who are or the most part (95%) French, there are hardly any foreigners in the Paris Opera Ballet Company.\n\nThe Paris Opera Ballet has always been an integral part of the Paris Opera, which was founded in 1669 as the Académie d'Opéra (Academy of Opera), although theatrical dance did not become an important component of the Paris Opera until 1673, after it was renamed the Académie Royale de Musique (Royal Academy of Music) and placed under the leadership of Jean-Baptiste Lully. The Paris Opera has had many different official names during its long history but since 1994 has been called the Opéra National de Paris (Paris National Opera).\n\nThe Paris Opera Ballet had its origins in the earlier dance institutions, traditions and practices of the court of Louis XIV. Of particular importance were the series of \"comédies-ballets\" created by Molière with, among others, the choreographers and composers Pierre Beauchamps and Jean-Baptiste Lully. The first was \"Les Fâcheux\" in 1661 and the most important, \"Le Bourgeois gentilhomme\" in 1670. Many of these were also performed by Molière's company at the public Théâtre du Palais-Royal in Paris, which was later to become the first permanent home of the opera company and the opera ballet.\n\nAlso in 1661, Louis XIV had founded the Académie Royale de Danse (Royal Academy of Dance) in an effort \"to improve the quality of dance instruction for court entertainments\". Members of the academy, as well as the dance teachers who were certified by it, and their students, participated in the creation of the ballets for the court, Molière, and later the opera. In 1680, Beauchamps became the chancellor (director) of the Académie Royale de Danse. Although the Académie Royale de Danse and the Opera were closely connected, the two institutions remained separate, and the former disappeared with the fall of the monarchy in 1789.\n\nOn 28 June 1669, Louis XIV granted a privilege to the poet Pierre Perrin giving him a monopoly to form a separate academy for the performance of opera in French. The first production of the company founded by Perrin, the Académie d'Opéra (Academy of Opera), was \"Pomone\", which was first performed on 3 March 1671 at the Jeu de Paume de la Bouteille and included ballets choreographed by Anthoine des Brosses.\n\nIn 1672, Lully purchased Perrin's privilege and also obtained new letters patent limiting the use of musicians and dancers by other French companies. With Anthoine des Brosses and Lully as choreographers and Carlo Vigarani as stage designer, Lully's company, now called the Académie Royale de Musique, produced Lully's first opera, \"Les fêtes de l'Amour et de Bacchus\" (a \"pastorale\") in November 1672 at the Jeu de Paume de Béquet. This work consisted primarily of excerpts from Lully's prior court ballets connected with new \"entrées\" choreographed by des Brosses. A crucial difference, however, from the previous court ballets was that the members of the court no longer participated, and all of the dancers were professionals.\n\nLully's next production, \"Cadmus et Hermione\" (27 April 1673), the first \"tragédie lyrique\" (with a libretto by Philippe Quinault), also premiered at the Jeu de Paume de Béquet and was choreographed by Anthoine des Brosses. Pierre Beauchamps, who had been working with Molière at the Palais-Royal, joined Lully's company in June 1673 (not long after Molière's death), when Lully took over the Palais-Royal theatre, forcing Molière's troupe to move to the Théâtre Guénégaud. Lully and Quinault continued to collaborate on a series of successful productions, in the process creating a new genre of French opera in which dance interludes played an important part in the musical drama. The ballets for these works were created by Beauchamps, des Brosses, and d'Olivet. Jean-Baptiste Dubos explains that Beauchamps and des Brosses were responsible for the \"ballets ordinaires\", while d'Olivet specialized in \"ballet-pantomime\":\nLully paid such great attention to the ballets mentioned here that he engaged for their choreography a 'maître de danse particulier' named d'Olivet. It was he, and not des Brosses or Beauchamps, whom Lully engaged for the 'ballets ordinaires', who composed the ballets of the infernal scenes of \"Psyché\" and \"Alceste\". It was also d'Olivet who composed the ballet of the old men in \"Thesée\", of the baneful dreams in \"Atys\", and of the tremblers in \"Isis\". This last was composed solely of pantomimic gestures by men seized with cold, and he did not introduce a single usual dance step into it.\nInitially the dancers of the Paris Opera Ballet were all male. Mademoiselle de la Fontaine (1665–1738) became the first professional ballerina when she danced in the premiere of Lully's ballet \"Le Triomphe de l'Amour\" on 21 January 1681. Pierre Beauchamps continued to collaborate with Lully at the Paris Opera until Lully's death in 1687.\n\nThe 18th century saw the creation of an associated school, now referred to as the Paris Opera Ballet School (French: École de Danse de l’Opéra de Paris), which opened in 1713. The operas of Rameau, and later Gluck, raised standards for the dancers. Jean-Georges Noverre was a particularly influential ballet master from 1776 to 1781. He created the ballet \"Les petits riens\" in 1778 on Mozart's music. Maximilien Gardel was ballet master from 1781, with his brother Pierre Gardel taking over after Maximilien's death in 1787. Pierre Gardel survived the Revolution creating ballets such as \"La Marseillaise\" and \"Offrande à la Liberté\". He remained the ballet master until 1820 and continued to work up to 1829.\n\nIn 1820, Pierre Gardel was succeeded as ballet master by Jean-Louis Aumer, who was however highly criticized for using too much mime and failing to use choreography which furthered plot or character. In 1821, the company moved to a new house, the Salle Le Peletier, where Romantic ballet was born.\n\nIn 1875, the company moved to the Palais Garnier where it continues to perform.\n\nIn 1929, Jacques Rouché invited 24-year-old dancer Serge Lifar to take over the directorship of the Paris Opéra Ballet, which had fallen into decline in the late 19th century.\n\nAs ballet master from 1930 to 1944, and from 1947 to 1958, he devoted himself to the restoration of the technical level of the Opéra Ballet, returning it to its place as one of the best companies in the world.\n\nLifar gave the company a new strength and purpose, initiating the rebirth of ballet in France, and began to create the first of many ballets for that company. During his three decades as director of the Paris Opéra Ballet, Lifar led the company through the turbulent times of World War II and the German occupation of France. Lifar brought the Paris Opéra Ballet to America and performed to full houses at the New York City Center. Audiences were enthusiastic and had great admiration for the company of dancers.\n\nIn the world of ballet Rudolf Nureyev is regarded as the greatest classical dancer ever and as one of the most preeminent choreographers.\n\nIn 1983, Rudolf Nureyev was appointed director of the Paris Opera Ballet, where, as well as directing, he continued to dance and to promote younger dancers.\n\nThe top female ballet dancer at that time, if not of all times was Sylvie Guillem who was nominated principal dancer at the age of 19 by Rudolf Nureyev in 1984. They were a mythical dance couple.\n\nThe years of Nureyev marked a golden era of the Paris Opera Ballet.\n\nBrigitte Lefèvre, director from 1995 to 2014, with Patrice Bart as maitre de ballet from 1990 to 2011, succeeded to maintain the high standard that Nureyev has set.\n\nBrigitte Lefèvre invited some of the most preeminent choreographers such as William Forsythe, Angelin Preljocaj, Saburo Teshigawara, and John Neumeier.\n\nThere have been turbulent times of the company with Benjamin Millepied, director of the Paris Opera Ballet from Novembre 2014 on who quit on 15 July 2016.\n\nThere were two stumbling blocks with Millepied, a French dancer and choreographer, who left France in 1993 at the age of 16, got his main professional education as a dancer and choreographer in the United States and came back to France in 2014 as newly-appointed director of the Paris Opera Ballet.\n\nThe one was that Millepied wanted the Paris Opera Ballet dancers to interpret La Bayadère, a classic ballet choreographed by Rudolf Nureyew in 1993, like a contemporary ballet. To achieve this goal he has already hired guest principal dancers to present La Bayadère.\n\nThe other stumbling block was that Millepied has actually broken the hierarchy with the \"Danseurs Étoiles\" dancing the leading roles as he has chosen for the cast of his first contemporary ballet creation \"Clear, Loud, Bright, Forward\" (the first one in his time as director) out of the 154 danseurs a \"dream team\" of 16 dancers which he considered to be the fittest to put to practice his ideas and visions (on the programming the dream team was named \"United visual artists\").\nKarl Paquette, principal dancer, said in an interview that he didn't feel so badly since 6 months. Stéphane Bullion, principal dancer, added that it was clear that things could not be straightened out.\n\nStéphane Lissner, the Paris Opera director who hired Benjamin Millepied in January 2013 — and who has final authority on decisions about budget, hiring and promotion — said at a news conference at the Palais Garnier on Thursday 4 February 2016 that he had no regrets about that choice.\n\n“He leaves too soon, but others leave too late.” Lissner added, “I think that the two jobs, director of dance and a choreographer who is more and more in demand, not just at the Opera, raised a certain number of questions.”\n\nAurélie Dupont took over the direction of the ballet company on 1 August 2016.\n\nAurélie Dupont was Danseuse Étoile from 1994 to 2015. Aurelie Dupont was the inspiration behind the Cédric Klapisch film about the star, considered the grande dame of the Paris Opera Ballet.\n\nThe hierarchy of the Paris Opera Ballet is very strict. For a dancer it is virtually compulsory to enter first the Paris Opera Ballet School. \"You cannot get into the company if you have not done the school\" (Mathilde Froustey). The competition for admission to both institutions is extremely fierce as well as the competition for the highest ranks in the ballet company.\n\nMore than 90 percent of the candidates don't pass the Ballet School entrance examination, 20 percent of its pupils have to leave at the end of the year failing in the annual competitive examinations (\"les concours annuels\") in May. Only 5 to 20 percent of the Ballet School graduates are accepted in the Paris Opera Ballet, initially as dancers on trial (the \"stagiares\")\n\nTo become a regular member of the Paris Opera Ballet as \"Quadrille\" (fifth and lowest rank in the hierarchy) you have to pass the annual competitive examination in November. Promotion to the next rank depends exclusively on success in the following annual competitive examinations (\"les concours internes de promotion\") in front of a board of judges. To achieve the highest rank as Danseur Étoile (only by nomination) you have to perform in leading roles as \"Premier Danseur\" for many years before you are nominated due to outstanding excellence and merit.\n\nAs the Paris Opera Ballet has a large quantity of first-class French dancers there are hard times for those who have not been promoted to the highest ranks as dancers or have not been appointed afterwards for positions for which they would have been extremely qualified.\n\nMathilde Froustey, Sujet from 2005 till 2013 left the Paris Opera Ballet in July 2013 and joined the San Francisco Ballet as a principal dancer because there was no chance for her becoming eventually Danseuse étoile (principal dancer) in this company. In November 2014 Benjamin Millepied, a former principal dancer of the New York City Ballet and French, took over the direction of the company and promised a change: \"They asked for a change and they will get a change.\" When Benjamin Millepied nominated for the first (and only) time a \"Danseuse étoile\", Laura Hecquet was chosen. Laura Hecquet and Mathilde Froustey were described in the press as \"the lost generation\" of dancers working up the ranks who have become soloist (Sujet) but have been unlucky for years as far as climbing up the last step of the career ladder is concerned.\n\nThe Paris Opera Ballet School has churned out some of the most famous dancers of all time, such as Sylvie Guillem and Laurent Hilaire.\n\nYet Sylvie Guillem, being principal dancer since 1984, left the company in 1989 at the age of 24 because she wanted more freedom, the right to perform with other companies, an arrangement the management of the Paris Opera Ballet declined.\n\nLaurent Hilaire was highly appreciated as principal dancer. After his farewell as a dancer he continued his career in the company attaining in 2011 the second-highest position as \"Maitre de ballet associated to the direction\". Laurent Hilaire was the favourite of Brigitte Lefèvre, director of the ballet, and Nicolas Joel, director of the Paris Opera at the time. In January 2013 Stéphane Lissner the new director of the Paris Opera (in the hierarchy above the Paris Opera Ballet's director) appointed Benjamin Millepied. Hilaire announced in May 2014 his departure and quit the company in July. The Paris Opera Ballet's new director Benjamin Millepied on his part stayed only two seasons and was followed in August by Aurélie Dupont, who was as Danseuse Ètoile the Grand-dame of the Paris Opera Ballet.\n\nFrançois Alu, Premier Danseur since 2013 and 23 years old, is regarded for his technique particularly stunning jumps and dazzling pirouettes and his dance style as the next principal dancer to be nominated. Now, this isn't amazing news, well-known for at least two years. François Alu was called by the critic Laura Capelle in her review of 10 January 2013 for DanceTabs as \"Wunderkind\" (child prodigy).\n\nSylvie Guillem who was nominated Danseuse Étoile even at the age of 19 by Rudolf Nureyev, director of that time, told about Nureyev that he was excellent in this regard thinking of him great anyway. Rudolf Nureyev once said in an interview on Sylvie Guillem: She is so young and she wants to become like me.\n\nThe Paris Opera Ballet School (French: \"École de danse de l'Opéra national de Paris\") is one of the most preeminent in the world. It has six classes for boys and girls separately named \"sixième division\" to \"première division\". In 1987, the Paris Opera Ballet School moved from the Palais Garnier where most of the Paris Opera ballets take place to a new building located 10 kilometres west of the centre of Paris in Nanterre. The new dance school building was designed by Christian de Portzamparc. Since 1995 the Paris Opera Ballet School has been a boarding school, Nowadays, from 8 till noon, all pupils attend school classes leading to the obtention of the French \"baccalauréat (the bac)\", the general qualification for university entrance in France.\n\nAmong the dancers of the Paris Opera Ballet, 95 percent have attended the Paris Opera Ballet School. To describe it differently, for a young dancer to be accepted in the Paris Opera Corps de ballet it is virtually obligatory to enter the Paris Opera Ballet School and attend at least the final two classes (deuxième et première division). More than 90 percent of the candidates do not pass the entrance examination. Even some of the dancers who have later become premiers danseurs (first soloists) or danseurs étoiles (principal dancers) of the Paris Opera Ballet passed the entrance examination only on the second attempt or were accepted only as fee-paying pupils.\n\nChoreographers associated with the Paris Opera Ballet and works created for the Paris Opera Ballet are:\n\nThere are five ranks of dancers in the Paris Opera Ballet, from highest to lowest they are: \"Danseur Étoile\", \"premier danseur\", \"sujet\", \"coryphée\", and \"quadrille\".\n\n\n\nNotes\nSources\n"}
{"id": "55357018", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55357018", "title": "Petro Yefymenko", "text": "Petro Yefymenko\n\nPetro Yefymenko [or Jefymenko Ukrainian: Петро Єфименко, pseud. Petro Odynets], (2 September 1835, Velykyi Tokmak, Berdiansk county, Ukraine – 7 May 1908, Saint Petersburg, Russia) was a Ukrainian ethnographer and historian, statistician by profession.\n\nPetro Yefymenko studied at Kharkiv University until his expulsion (1855-1858) and Moscow University (1858–1859). As a student, he belonged to secret student societies, including Kharkiv-Kyiv Secret Society (1856-1860).\n\nIn 1860 Petro Yefymenko was accused of Ukrainian separatism. He was arrested and exiled for 10 years to Perm and then Arkhangelsk, Russia. During his exile, Petro Yefymenko collected materials on the local ethnography, folklore and law. His publications on this topic include: \"Pridanoe po obychnomu pravu krestyan v Arkhangelskoi Gubernii\" [Dowry according to the customery law of the peasants of Arkhangelsk governorate], Saint Peteresburg, 1873.\n\nPetro Yefymenko returned to Ukraine in 1877, firstly to Chernihiv and then, two years later, to Kharkiv. He devoted himself to ethnographic and historical research and writings. Significant part of his work consisted of traveling throughout Ukraine gathering relevant materials. In 1884–1888 he worked as editor of Kharkovskyi kalendar [Kharkiv calendar], where he started publishing works of another famous Ukrainian ethnographer Pavlo Chubynsky, as well as bibliography of Chubynsky’s works. Petro Efymenko’s works were published in a number periodicals, including: Osnova, Russia; weekly newspaper Chernigovskii Listok, Ukraine (founded and edited by Leonid Hlibov); and Kievskaya starina [Kyivan antiquity], Ukraine.\n\n\n1874 – Sbornik Malorossiyskikh zaklinaniy [Collection of Ukrainian spells], University Publishing, Moscow\n\n1882 – “Arkhic Malorossiyskoy Kollehii pri Kharkovskom universitete”. [Archive of the Ukrainian Collegium at Kharkiv University], \"Kievskaya starina\"\n\n1882 – “Posledniy pisar Voyska Zaporozhskoho Hloba” [Hloba, the last scribe of the Zaporizhian army], \"Kievskaya starina\"\n\n1882 – “Ssylnye Malorossiyane v Arkhangelskoy Gubernii” [Exiled Ukrainians of Arkhangelsk governorate]. \"Kievskaya starina\"\n\n1883 – “Shpitali v Malorosii” [Hospitals in Ukraine]. \"Kievskaya starina\"\n\n1884 – “Mohily Hetmantsev v Lebedine”. [Hetmans’ tumulus in Lebedyn]. \"Kievskaya starina\"\n"}
{"id": "32502155", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32502155", "title": "Raoul Desribes", "text": "Raoul Desribes\n\nReverend Father Raoul Desribes (born in 1856, died in 1940) was a French Jesuit archaeologist notable for his work on prehistory in Lebanon, particularly the archaeological site of Minet Dalieh at Ras Beirut. He found two paleolithic bone harpoons.\n\n"}
{"id": "24968527", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24968527", "title": "Ricardo Almendáriz", "text": "Ricardo Almendáriz\n\nRicardo Almendáriz () was a Guatemalan draftsman who accompanied Antonio del Río to the first excavation of pre-Columbian Maya ruins at Palenque in Chiapas, Mexico. Undertaken in May and June 1787, the expedition was performed under orders from Charles III of Spain to investigate reports about the ruins from the inhabitants of the neighboring pueblo of Santo Domingo de Palenque. The team spent two weeks digging at the location followed by three weeks studying the site.\n\nAlmendáriz made thirty drawings of the bas relief sculptures at the Palenque ruins. These drawings were intended to accompany del Río's written report, which was dated June 24, 1787. According to George Stuart, writing for the Kislak Foundation, the del Río report \"ranks as the first substantial archaeological report known in the Americas.\" Almendáriz's drawings of Palenque are \"remarkably accurate for the era\" and depict features of Palenque that have since been destroyed from exposure. For this reason they remain scientifically useful.\n\nThe Almendáriz drawings were copied for archival purposes. The most complete set of contemporary copies belongs to the library of the Royal Palace in Madrid.\n\n"}
{"id": "191208", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=191208", "title": "Rigoberta Menchú", "text": "Rigoberta Menchú\n\nRigoberta Menchú Tum (; born 9 January 1959) is a K'iche' political and human rights activist from Guatemala. Menchú has dedicated her life to publicizing the rights of Guatemala's indigenous feminists during and after the Guatemalan Civil War (1960–1996), and to promoting indigenous rights in the country.\n\nShe received the Nobel Peace Prize in 1992 and the Prince of Asturias Award in 1998. She is the subject of the testimonial biography \"I, Rigoberta Menchú\" (1983) and the author of the autobiographical work, \"Crossing Borders\". Menchú is a UNESCO Goodwill Ambassador. She has also become a figure in indigenous political parties and ran for President of Guatemala in 2007 and 2011.\n\nRigoberta Menchú was born to a poor indigenous family of K'iche' Maya descent in Laj Chimel, a peasant hamlet in the north-central Guatemalan province of El Quiché. Menchú received a primary- and middle-school education as a student at several Catholic boarding schools. In 1981, Menchú was exiled and escaped to Mexico. She found refuge in the home of a Catholic bishop in Chiapas. In 1995, Menchú married Ángel Canil, a Guatemalan. They have a son, Mash Nahual J’a (\"Spirit of Water\").\n\nAfter leaving school, Menchú worked as an activist campaigning against human rights violations committed by the Guatemalan armed forces during the country's civil war, which lasted from 1960 to 1996. In 1979-80 her brother Patrocinio and her mother Juana were kidnapped, tortured and murdered by the Guatemalan army. Her father Vicente died in the 1980 Burning of the Spanish Embassy, which occurred after urban guerrillas took hostages and were attacked by government security forces. In 1984 her brother Victor was shot to death after he surrendered to the army, was threatened by soldiers, and tried to escape.\n\nWhile in exile in Mexico, Menchú continued to organize resistance to oppression in Guatemala and the struggle for indigenous rights by co-founding the United Republic of Guatemalan Opposition. Tens of thousands of people, mostly Mayan Indians, fled to Mexico from 1982 to 1984 at the height of Guatemala's 36-year civil war.\n\nIn 1982, she narrated a book about her life, titled \"Me llamo Rigoberta Menchú y así me nació la conciencia\" (\"My Name is Rigoberta Menchú, and this is how my Conscience was Born\") to Venezuelan author and anthropologist Elizabeth Burgos, which was translated into five other languages including English and French. The book made her an international icon at the time of the ongoing conflict in Guatemala.\n\nSince the Guatemalan Civil War ended, Menchú has campaigned to have Guatemalan political and military establishment members tried in Spanish courts. In 1999 she filed a complaint before a court in Spain because prosecutions of crimes committed during the civil war are practically impossible in Guatemala. These attempts stalled as the Spanish courts determined that the plaintiffs had not yet exhausted all possibility of seeking justice through the legal system of Guatemala.\n\nOn December 23, 2006, Spain called for the extradition from Guatemala of seven former members of Guatemala's government on charges of genocide and torture. These include former military rulers Efraín Ríos Montt and Óscar Mejía. Spain's highest court ruled that cases of genocide committed abroad could be judged in Spain, even if no Spanish citizens were involved. In addition to the deaths of Spanish citizens, the most serious charges include genocide against the Maya people of Guatemala.\n\nIn January 2015, a Guatemalan court convicted the commander of a former police investigations unit of murder, attempted murder and crimes against humanity for his role in the embassy attack, in which Menchú's father died.\n\nMenchú has become involved in the Indian pharmaceutical industry as president of \"Salud para Todos\" (\"Health for All\") and the company \"Farmacias Similares,\" with the goal of offering low-cost generic medicines. She served as presidential goodwill ambassador for the 1996 Peace Accords in Guatemala. That same year she received the Peace Abbey Courage of Conscience Award in Boston.\n\nIn 2006, Menchú was one of the founders of the Nobel Women's Initiative along with sister Nobel Peace Laureates Jody Williams, Shirin Ebadi, Wangari Maathai, Betty Williams and Mairead Corrigan Maguire. Six women representing North America, South America, Europe, the Middle East, and Africa decided to bring together their experiences in a united effort for peace, justice and equality. It is the goal of the Nobel Women's Initiative to help strengthen women's rights around the world.\n\nMenchú is a member of PeaceJam, an organization whose mission is \"to create young leaders committed to positive change in themselves, their communities and the world through the inspiration of Nobel Peace Laureates who pass on the spirit, skills, and wisdom they embody.\" She travels around the world speaking to youth through PeaceJam conferences. She is also a member of the Fondation Chirac's honour committee, ever since the foundation was launched in 2008 by former French president Jacques Chirac in order to promote world peace.\n\nOn February 12, 2007, Menchú announced that she would form an indigenous political party called Encuentro por Guatemala and that she would stand in the 2007 presidential election. Had she been elected, she would have become Latin America's fourth indigenous president after Mexico's Benito Juárez, Peru's Alejandro Toledo and Bolivia's Evo Morales.\n\nIn the election, Menchú was defeated in the first round, receiving three percent of the vote. After the elections, Rigoberta Menchú gave a message of peace to all Guatemalans on television.\n\nIn 2009 she was involved in the newly founded party Winaq. Menchú was a candidate for the 2011 presidential election, but lost in the first round, winning three percent of the vote again.\n\n\nMore than a decade after the publication of \"I, Rigoberta Menchú\", anthropologist David Stoll investigated Menchú's story, researching government documents, reports, and land claims (many filed by Menchú's own family), and interviewing former neighbors, locals, friends, enemies, and others for his 1999 book \"Rigoberta Menchú and the Story of All Poor Guatemalans\".\n\nStoll claimed Menchú changed some elements of her life, family and village to meet the publicity needs of the guerrilla movement, which she joined as a political \"comadre\" after her parents were assassinated. The controversy caused by Stoll's book received widespread coverage in the US press of the time.\n\nHistorian Greg Grandin claims Stoll's research on the Guatemalan revolution is mostly wrong, but states that \"two of Stoll's charges concerning Menchú's life do have merit\". First, he documents that she received some education, contradicting a claim that her father refused to send her to school because he did not want her to lose her cultural identity. Second, Stoll presents evidence that Menchú falsely placed herself at the scene of her 16-year-old brother's murder. According to Grandin, Stoll in a later interview agreed to the \"essential factuality of Menchú's account of how her brother and mother died\".\n\nIn her own critique of Stoll's work, titled \"The Silencing of Maya Women from Mama Maquin to Rigoberta Menchu\", anthropologist Victoria Sanford highlights inaccuracies in Stoll's book, and claims that he used highly questionable sources as research informants.\n\nThe Nobel Committee dismissed calls to revoke her Nobel Prize, rejecting the claims of falsification by Stoll. Geir Lundestad, the secretary of the Committee, said her prize \"was not based exclusively or primarily on the autobiography\". According to the Nobel Committee,\"\"Stoll approves of her Nobel prize and has no question about the picture of army atrocities which she presents. He says that her purpose in telling her story the way she did 'enabled her to focus international condemnation on an institution that deserved it, the Guatemalan army\".\"\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "58308173", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58308173", "title": "Roane Fleming Byrnes", "text": "Roane Fleming Byrnes\n\nRoane Fleming Byrnes (1890–1970) was a historic preservationist who spearheaded the creation of the Natchez Trace Parkway.\n\nShe lived at Ravennaside, a historic mansion in Natchez, Mississippi. She was active in both historic preservation and race relations.\n"}
{"id": "334518", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=334518", "title": "Salomon Reinach", "text": "Salomon Reinach\n\nSalomon Reinach (29 August 1858 – 4 November 1932) was a French archaeologist and religious historian.\n\nThe brother of Joseph Reinach and Théodore Reinach, he was born at St Germain-en-Laye and educated at the École normale supérieure before joining the French school at Athens in 1879. He made valuable archaeological discoveries at Myrina near Smyrna in 1880-82, at Cyme in 1881, at Thasos, Imbros and Lesbos (1882), at Carthage and Meninx (1883–84), at Odessa (1893) and elsewhere. He received honours from the chief learned societies of Europe.\n\nIn 1887 he obtained an appointment at the National Museum of Antiquities at Saint-Germain-en-Laye; in 1893 he became assistant curator, and in 1902 curator of the national museums. In 1903 he became joint editor of the \"\"Revue archéologique\", and in the same year officer of the Legion of Honour. The lectures he delivered on art at the École du Louvre in 1902-3 were published by him under the title of \"Apollo : histoire générale des arts plastiques professée en 1902-1903 à l'École du Louvre\"\". These were translated into most European languages, and became a standard handbook on the subject.\n\nReinach's first published work was a translation of Arthur Schopenhauer's \"Essay on Free Will\" (\"\"Essai sur le libre arbitre\", 1877), which passed through many editions. His \"Manuel de philologie classique\" (1880-1884) was crowned by the French association for the study of Greek; his \"Grammaire latine\" (1886) received a prize from the Society of Secondary Education; \"La Nécropole de Myrina\" (1887), written with Edmond Pottier, and \"Antiquités nationales\" were crowned by the Academy of Inscriptions. He compiled an important \"Répertoire de la statuaire grecque et romaine\" (3 volumes, 1897–98); also \"Répertoire de peintures du Moyen âge et de la Renaissance 1280-1580\" (1905, etc.); \"Répertoire des vases peints grecs et étrusques\" (1900). In 1905 he began his \"Cultes, mythes et religions\"; and in 1909 he published a general sketch of the history of religions under the title of \"Orpheus; histoire générale des religions\"\" (translated into English and published as \"Orpheus, a general history of religions\"). \n\nHe also translated from the English HC Lea's \"History of the Inquisition\" as \"\"Histoire de l'Inquisition au Moyen-âge\". In 1936 his updated bibliography was published — \"Bibliographie de Salomon Reinach\"\". It has been said his bibliography runs to 262 pages and includes more than ninety lengthy works and at least seven thousand articles. (Curtis, 2003) \n\nReinach has been cited as a proponent of the Christ myth theory. However, he did not deny the possibility of an historical Jesus. Reinach is quoted as saying \"It is impossible to establish the historical Jesus, which is not to say that he did not exist, but only that we cannot positively affirm anything about him.\"\n\nReinach was critical of the Passion of Jesus which he considered was a myth based on pre-existing pagan legends. Reinach was supportive of the mythicist research of William Benjamin Smith. In regard to Smith's \"Ecce Deus\", he wrote that \"I have read this great book from cover to cover. It is a possession for ever. The author may not live to see it, but it will be read by myriads and shed light on millions.\"\n\nRationalist writer Joseph McCabe wrote that Reinach was \"one of the leading French authorities on the science of religion, from which he removes all supernatural elements.\"\n\nSalomon Reinach died in 1932 and was buried in the Cimetière de Montmartre in the Montmartre Quarter of Paris.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2058760", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2058760", "title": "Takahito, Prince Mikasa", "text": "Takahito, Prince Mikasa\n\nWith the death of his sister-in-law, Kikuko, Princess Takamatsu, on 17 December 2004, he became the oldest living member of the Imperial House of Japan. As a centenarian, Prince Takahito was the oldest living royal, the oldest living prince in line of succession, and also the last one in it. He died at age 100 on 27 October 2016 of cardiac arrest after being hospitalized for pneumonia.\n\nPrince Takahito was born at the Tokyo Imperial Palace, in the third year of his father's reign and a full fifteen years after the birth of the future Emperor Shōwa. His childhood appellation was \"Sumi-no-miya\". Prince Takahito attended the boys' elementary and secondary departments of the Gakushūin (Peers' School) from 1922 to 1932. By the time he began his secondary schooling, his eldest brother had already ascended the Chrysanthemum Throne and his next two brothers, Prince Chichibu and Prince Takamatsu, had already embarked upon careers in the Japanese Imperial Army and the Japanese Imperial Navy, respectively. He enrolled in the Imperial Japanese Army Academy in 1932 and was commissioned as a sub-lieutenant and assigned to the Fifth Cavalry Regiment in June 1936. He subsequently graduated from the Army Staff College.\n\nUpon attaining the age of majority in December 1935, Emperor Shōwa granted him the title \"Mikasa-no-miya\" (Prince Mikasa) and the authorization to form a new branch of the Imperial Family.\n\nPrince Mikasa was promoted to lieutenant in 1937 and to captain in 1939, serving in China under the name of \"Wakasugi\". During his army career, he was harshly critical of the Japanese military's conduct in China. In a 1994 interview, he criticised the Imperial Army's invasion of and atrocities in China, and recalled having been \"strongly shocked\" when an officer informed him that the best way to train new recruits was to use living Chinese POWs for bayonet practice. According to Daniel Barenblatt, Prince Mikasa and his cousin Prince Tsuneyoshi Takeda received a special screening by Shirō Ishii of a film showing airplanes loading germ bombs for bubonic plague dessemination over the Chinese city of Ningbo in 1940. He also was given a film of Japanese atrocities, possibly linked to the footage used in \"The Battle of China\", and was so moved that he made his brother Emperor Hirohito watch the film.\n\nIn 1994, a newspaper revealed that after Prince Mikasa's return to Tokyo, he had written a stinging indictment of the conduct of the Imperial Japanese Army in China, where the Prince had witnessed Japanese atrocities against Chinese civilians. The Imperial Army General Staff suppressed the document, but one copy survived and surfaced in 1994. After the war, it was reported that while an officer, Prince Mikasa had taken a strict stance against lax discipline and the cruel actions of Japanese soldiers serving in China.\n\nPromoted to major in 1941, Prince Mikasa served as a staff officer in the Headquarters of the China Expeditionary Army at Nanjing, China from January 1943 to January 1944. His role was intended to bolster the legitimacy of the Wang Jingwei regime and to coordinate with Japanese Army staff towards a peace initiative, but his efforts were totally undermined by the Operation Ichi-Go campaign launched by the Imperial General Headquarters.\n\nPrince Mikasa served as a staff officer in the Army Section of the Imperial General Headquarters in Tokyo until Japan's surrender in August 1945. After the end of the war, the Prince spoke before the Privy Council, urging that Hirohito abdicate to take responsibility for the war.\n\nOn 22 October 1941, Prince Mikasa married Yuriko Takagi (born 4 June 1923), the second daughter of Viscount (\"kazoku\", pre-war Japan's upper classes) Masanari Takagi. Prince and Princess Mikasa had five children. In addition to their five children, they had nine grandchildren and four great-grandchildren as of 2015. The couple's two daughters left the Imperial Family upon marriage. All of their sons predeceased them.\n\n\nAfter the defeat of Japan in World War II, many members of the imperial family, such as Princes Chichibu, Takamatsu and Higashikuni, pressed Emperor Hirohito to abdicate so that one of the Princes could serve as regent until Crown Prince Akihito came of age. On 27 February 1946, Prince Mikasa even stood up in the privy council and indirectly urged the emperor to step down and accept responsibility for Japan's defeat. U.S. General of the Army Douglas MacArthur insisted that Emperor Hirohito retain the throne. According to Minister of Welfare Ashida's diary, \"Everyone seemed to ponder Mikasa's words. Never have I seen His Majesty's face so pale.\"\n\nAfter the war, Prince Mikasa enrolled in the Literature Faculty of the University of Tokyo and pursued advanced studies in archaeology, Middle Eastern studies, and Semitic languages. From 1954 until his death in 2016, he directed the Japanese Society for Middle East Studies. He was honorary president of the Japan Society of Orientology. The Prince held visiting and guest faculty appointments in Middle Eastern studies and archaeology at various universities in Japan and abroad, including: Tokyo National University of Fine Arts and Music, Aoyama Gakuin, Tokyo Woman's Christian University, the University of London, Hokkaido University and the University of Shizuoka. He made numerous radio and television appearances, speaking on cultural subjects, and was known as \"the Imperial scholar\".\n\nTowards the end of his life, due to his advanced age, Prince Mikasa rarely made public appearances, and regularly used a wheelchair. He and Princess Mikasa lived together at a residence in the grounds of the Akasaka Estate in Motoakasaka, Minato, Tokyo. He underwent heart surgery in 2012, and made a full recovery. His routine included exercising for about 30 minutes each day with his wife at their Tokyo residence, and he often went outdoors for a roll in his wheelchair. About once a week, he would leave his home for a haircut, or to attend various events for other family members. In October 2014, he attended the Tokyo wedding of his granddaughter Princess Noriko, the second daughter of his youngest son Prince Takamado. Palace staff noted that he appeared vigorous until his last days, and that he would always be seen helping his wife to get about. He continued to read newspapers, and enjoyed watching sumo and music programs on television.\n\nOn 2 December 2015, Prince Mikasa became the first member of the imperial family to become a centenarian. On his 100th birthday, he said, \"Nothing will change just because I turn 100 years old. I'd like to spend my days pleasantly and peacefully while praying for the happiness of people around the world and thanking my wife, Yuriko, who has been supporting me for more than 70 years.\" At his residence in April 2016, he met the Japanese ambassador to Turkey and took a stroll at the Akasaka Detached Palace.\n\nOn 16 May 2016, Prince Mikasa was admitted to the intensive-care unit of St. Luke's International Hospital in Tokyo's Chuo Ward, having contracted acute pneumonia. He remained in hospital for the remaining months of his life. His heart weakened in June, and fluid accumulated in his lungs. Princess Yuriko frequently visited him along with other Imperial family members, including the Emperor and Empress in June. During his last days, Prince Mikasa remained responsive to visitors. On 22 October, Prince Mikasa and his wife celebrated their 75th wedding anniversary in his hospital room. His condition eventually stabilised to the point where he began to receive rehabilitation in his bed, which included stretching his arms and legs. At 7:40 a.m. on 27 October, however, his heart gradually slowed, stopping at 8 a.m. Prince Mikasa was pronounced dead at 8:34 a.m., with his wife at his side. At his death, he had outlived all of his siblings and all three of his sons. He was also the last surviving grandson of Emperor Meiji.\n\nPrince Mikasa's funeral was held on 4 November 2016 at Toshimagaoka Imperial Cemetery. About 580 people including members of the Imperial Family, Prime Minister Shinzō Abe, U.S. Ambassador Caroline Kennedy, Emperor Akihito's daughter Sayako Kuroda and her husband Yoshiki Kuroda, and Prince Mikasa's own granddaughter Noriko Senge and her husband Kunimaro Senge, attended the funeral. Princess Mikasa hosted the ceremony as the chief mourner.\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2173348", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2173348", "title": "The Poppykettle Papers", "text": "The Poppykettle Papers\n\nThe Poppykettle Papers is a children's book written in 1999 by Michael Lawrence and illustrated by Robert R. Ingpen.\n\nThe story follows mythical, ancient, Peruvian gnomes whose story is discovered in the modern day by two boys who find \"The Poppykettle Papers\".\n\nIn 1980, Robert Ingpen published \"The Voyage of the Poppykettle\", a children's book. He later published \"The Unchosen Land\", its sequel.\n\nThese stories were so popular in Ingpen's home, Geelong, that a fountain and an annual Poppykettle Festival celebrate the mythical landing of the \"hairy Peruvians\".\n\n\"The Poppykettle Papers\" is an updated re-telling of the original two books.\n\nThe book ties into various historical and folkloric stories of Australia's early settlement.\n\nOne such story is the discovery in 1847, by Governor Charles La Trobe, of a set of keys embedded in the earth near Corio Bay. These keys, known as the Geelong Keys, are believed by some to have been dropped by Portuguese explorers some hundreds of years previously, but the Poppykettle Papers suggest another origin -- namely, that the Hairy Peruvians left them there.\n"}
{"id": "3370394", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3370394", "title": "Thonmi Sambhota", "text": "Thonmi Sambhota\n\nThonmi Sambhota (Thönmi Sambhoṭa, aka Tonmi Sambhodha;, Tib. ཐོན་མི་སམྦྷོ་ཊ་, Wyl. thon mi sam+b+ho Ta; b. seventh cent.) is traditionally regarded as the inventor of the Tibetan script and author of the \"Sum cu pa\" and \"Rtags kyi 'jug pa\" in the 7th century AD. Thonmi Sambhota is not mentioned in any of the \"Old Tibetan Annals\" or other ancient texts, although the \"Annals\" does mention writing shortly after 650. Roy Andrew Miller has written a number of articles arguing that Thonmi is an entirely ahistorical person.\n\nOf the students sent to India, Thonmi Sambhota, said to have been the fourth of seven wise ministers of the emperor Songtsen Gampo, was the only one to return to Tibet. It seems that the Tibetan script he devised, in what is believed to be Pabonka Hermitage was based on the Brahmi and Gupta scripts which had been in use in India since c. 350 CE.\n\nKing Songtsen Gampo is said to have retired for four years to master the new script and grammar and then made many translations including twenty Avalokitesvara texts. Other translators quickly added to the corpus of Buddhist translations. The \"Six Codices of the Tibetan constitution\" were drawn up and court records, genealogies, legends and poetry were preserved in writing.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "16307520", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16307520", "title": "Timeline of Aboriginal history of Western Australia", "text": "Timeline of Aboriginal history of Western Australia\n\nThis is a timeline of Aboriginal history of Western Australia.\n\nAboriginal life in the two centuries from 1629 to 1829, was characterized by the increased presence of Europeans around the Western Australian coastline. First contact appears to have been characterized by open trust and curiosity, with Aborigines willing to defend themselves against any unwarranted intrusion.\n\n\nThe settlement of Western Australia by Europeans, under James Stirling, in the early 1840s, created a new generation of colony born young men who were engaged in hostilities with Aborigines and the imprisonment of those who dared question their authority. The settlement proceeded with the expropriation of land and the exploitation of cheap labour and the extermination of any resistance by Aborigines.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nThe sixty years from 1881 to the 1940s can be neatly divided into two by the passage of the 1905 Aboriginal Act, which created institutionalised racism and created what amounted to Aboriginal \"concentration camps\" in which the Aboriginal people were to be confined until the race became extinct. It began with the Fairburn Report which first drew attention to the \"Aboriginal Problem.\" This institutionalised racism, like the racism of the Nazi period in Germany, the racism of the southern states of the USA, and the racism of South Africa, reached its peak in the 1930s. The \"final solution to the Aboriginal problem\" was to take all children from Aboriginal parents, who were considered as \"biologically capable of having children, but not socially capable of raising them.\" This \"solution\" continued beyond this period until well into the 1970s. The major task confronting Aboriginal people throughout this period was how their cultures could survive.\n\n\nThis period began with the Great Stockman's Strike of 1946. It, like the other periods, can be divided into two by the events of 1967, in which Aboriginal people were recognised as Australian, and by the passage of the Racial Discrimination Act 1975, which for the first time since 1829 recognised Aboriginal people as equal under Australian law. The passing of the Mabo and Wik High Court Decisions, which recognised Aboriginal people as in possession of the land at the date of European settlement, is an appendix to these changes. This period is still not complete, as the Western Australian Labor and Liberal Coalition governments are still resisting the Native Title claim of the Noongar people.\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1128116", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1128116", "title": "Timeline of New Zealand's links with Antarctica", "text": "Timeline of New Zealand's links with Antarctica\n\nThis is a timeline of the history of New Zealand's involvement with Antarctica.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "41955845", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41955845", "title": "Timeline of women in science in the United States", "text": "Timeline of women in science in the United States\n\nThis is a timeline of women in science in the United States.\n"}
{"id": "26010783", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26010783", "title": "United Nations Security Council Resolution 505", "text": "United Nations Security Council Resolution 505\n\nIn United Nations Security Council resolution 505, adopted unanimously on 26 May 1982, after reaffirming Resolution 502 (1982) and noting that the situation in the region of the Falkland Islands had seriously deteriorated, the Council expressed appreciation for the Secretary-General Javier Pérez de Cuéllar's efforts to bring about a peaceful solution to the conflict.\n\nThe resolution went on to urge both Argentina and the United Kingdom to cooperate with the Secretary-General to achieve a ceasefire and, if necessary, to arrange a possible dispatch of United Nations observers to the region to monitor the implementation of a ceasefire. The Council concluded by requesting the Secretary-General to submit a report on developments no later than seven days after the implementation of the resolution.\n\nSeveral days before the adoption of this resolution, Peru offered a peace proposal which was rejected by Argentina. Though not included in the final draft, Argentina wished for Resolution 505 to include a reference to a possible interim administration on the islands, an idea that came up in negotiations. A further draft resolution by Panama and Spain was vetoed by Britain and the United States.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2876716", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2876716", "title": "Uriel's Machine", "text": "Uriel's Machine\n\nUriel's Machine: The Prehistoric Technology That Survived the Flood is a bestselling book published in 1999 by Christopher Knight and Robert Lomas. The book's name is derived from a character of the same name in the \"Book of Enoch\". In Knight and Lomas's interpretation of the \"Book of Enoch\", Uriel warns Enoch about the impending flood, giving him instructions for building a form of solar observatory for the purpose of preserving advanced knowledge into a time of global disaster by teaching him the movement of the Sun against the horizon over a period of time, which Enoch then records in detail in the \"Book of the Courses of the Heavenly Luminaries\".\n\nIn Masonic mythology there are many references to seven, which the authors speculate could refer to seven cometary fragments. These seven cometary fragments are described in the book as hitting the earth in prehistory causing tsunamis. The authors link this speculation to the work of geologists Edith and Alexander Tollmann. Their work proposes a series of meteors hitting the earth over the last 10,000 years, especially circa 7640 BC. Their evidence and counter-evidence is discussed in the article Tollmann's hypothetical bolide.\n\nThe book proposes that what the authors believe to have been stellar observatories (such as the first wooden Stonehenge) in Britain, and structures in the Boyne Valley in Ireland, show sufficient knowledge to be able to predict prescribed solar, lunar and venusian events and cycles, such as solstices and equinoxes. If rituals at Stonehenge involved stargazing, there is then the opportunity for an anomalous object to be spotted far more quickly if the cycles of observed celestial objects are known.\n\nThe authors quote textual evidence from the book of Enoch, noting other coincidences made between Enoch and astronomy; for example, it is said he lived 365 years, which could be a reference to a year (365.25 days).\nThe authors suggest that chambers (souterrains) found in Britain might have been attempts to build shelters to be sealed against tsunamis that would have been caused by a cometary impact in the sea. However, the souterrains have been dated to the late Iron Age, thousands of years after the supposed impact event.\n\nArchaeologists and astronomers have been extremely sceptical about this idea. Prof Archie Roy (an astronomer and psychic researcher) and Robert Lomas gave a joint talk about technological possibilities in Megalithic society at the 2000 Orkney International Science.\n\nTim Schadla-Hall, archaeologist and editor of the journal \"Public Archaeology\", has cited the book as an example of pseudoscience, in which the authors \"quote established academics in such a way as to make it seem as though they support their arguments\". The geology in the book is based on Tollmann's hypothetical bolide which has been rejected by specialists in meteorite and comet impacts.\n\nStephen Tonkin, author and astronomer, said: \"I believe that the astronomical basis of this book is sufficiently flawed as to render any conclusions that the authors draw from it to be highly suspect.\"\n\nMike Pitts, archaeologist and journalist, says that the book contains \"what we might politely call a radically alternative approach to Grooved Ware pottery\" and notes that the book's bibliography contains \"such items as Myths and Legends of Australia, Robert the Bruce \"and\" The Pleistocene Elephants of Siberia, but not a single primary archaeological source for England (where, it has to be said, a great deal of Grooved Ware has been found).\"\n\n\n"}
{"id": "229247", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=229247", "title": "Vuk Karadžić", "text": "Vuk Karadžić\n\nVuk Stefanović Karadžić (, ; 7 November 17877 February 1864) was a Serb philologist and linguist who was the major reformer of the Serbian language. He deserves, perhaps, for his collections of songs, fairy tales, and riddles, to be called the father of the study of Serbian folklore. He was also the author of the first Serbian dictionary in the new reformed language. In addition, he translated the New Testament into the reformed form of the Serbian spelling and language.\n\nHe was well known abroad and familiar to Jacob Grimm, Johann Wolfgang von Goethe and historian Leopold von Ranke. Vuk was the primary source for Ranke's \"Serbische Revoluzion\" (\"Serbian Revolution\"), written in 1829.\n\nVuk Karadžić was born to parents Stefan and Jegda (née \"Zrnić\") in the village of Tršić, near Loznica, which was in the Ottoman Empire (now in Serbia). His family settled from Drobnjaci, and his mother was born in Ozrinići, Nikšić (in present-day Montenegro.) His family had a low infant survival rate, thus he was named Vuk ('wolf') so that witches and evil spirits would not hurt him (the name was traditionally given to strengthen the bearer).\n\nKaradžić was fortunate to be a relative of Jevta Savić Čotrić, the only literate person in the area at the time, who taught him how to read and write. Karadžić continued his education in the Tronoša Monastery in Loznica. As a boy he learned calligraphy there, using a reed instead of a pen and a solution of gunpowder for ink. In lieu of proper writing paper he was lucky if he could get cartridge wrappings. Throughout the whole region, regular schooling was not widespread at that time and his father at first did not allow him to go to Austria. Since most of the time while in the monastery Karadžić was forced to pasture the livestock instead of studying, his father brought him back home. Meanwhile, the First Serbian Uprising seeking to overthrow the Ottomans began in 1804. After unsuccessful attempts to enroll in the gymnasium at Sremski Karlovci, for which 19-year-old Karadžić was too old, Karadžić left for Petrinja where he spent a few months learning Latin and German. Later on, he left for Belgrade, now in the hands of the Revolutionary Serbia, in order to meet the highly respected scholar Dositej Obradović, and ask him to support his studies. Unfortunately, Obradović dismissed him. Disappointed, Karadžić left for Jadar and began working as a scribe for Jakov Nenadović. After the founding of the Belgrade Higher School, Karadžić became one of its first students.\n\nSoon afterwards, he grew ill and left for medical treatment in Pest and Novi Sad, but was unable to receive treatment for his leg. It was rumored that Karadžić deliberately refused to undergo amputation, instead deciding to make do with a prosthetic wooden pegleg, of which there were several sarcastic references in some of his works. Karadžić returned to Serbia by 1810, and as unfit for military service, he served as the secretary for commanders Ćurčija and Hajduk-Veljko. His experiences would later give rise to two books. With the Ottoman defeat of the Serbian rebels in 1813, he left for Vienna and later met Jernej Kopitar, an experienced linguist with a strong interest in secular slavistics. Kopitar's influence helped Karadžić with his struggle in reforming the Serbian language and its orthography. Another important influence was Sava Mrkalj.\n\nIn 1814 and 1815, Karadžić published two volumes of \"Serbian Folk Songs\", which afterwards increased to four, then to six, and finally to nine tomes. In enlarged editions, these admirable songs drew towards themselves the attention of all literary Europe and America. Goethe characterized some of them as \"excellent and worthy of comparison with Solomon's \"Song of Songs\".\"\n\nIn 1824, he sent a copy of his folksong collection to Jacob Grimm, who was enthralled particularly by The Building of Skadar which Karadžić recorded from singing of Old Rashko. Grimm translated it into German and the song was noted and admired for many generations to come. Grimm compared them with the noblest flowers of Homeric poetry, and of \"The Building of Skadar\" he said: \"one of the most touching poems of all nations and all times.\" The founders of the Romantic School in France, Charles Nodier, Prosper Mérimée, Lamartine, Gerard de Nerval, and Claude Fauriel translated a goodly number of them, and they also attracted the attention of Russian Alexander Pushkin, Finnish national poet Johan Ludwig Runeberg, Czech Samuel Roznay, Pole Kazimierz Brodzinski, English writers Walter Scott, Owen Meredith, and John Bowring, among others.\n\nKaradžić continued collecting song well into the 1830s. He arrived in Montenegro in the fall of 1834. Infirm, he descended to the Bay of Kotor to winter there, and returned in the spring of 1835. It was there that Karadžić met Vuk Vrčević, an aspiring littérateur, born in Risan. From then on Vrčević became Karadžić's faithful and loyal collaborator who collected folk songs and tales and sent them to his address in Vienna for many years to come. Another equally diligent collaborator of Vuk Karadžić was another namesake from Boka Kotorska the Priest Vuk Popović. Both Vrčević and Popović were steadily and unselfishly involved in the gathering of the ethnographic, folklore and lexical material for Karadžić. Later, other collaborators joined Karadžić, including Milan Đ. Milićević.\nThe majority of Karadžić's works were banned from publishing in Serbia and Austria during the rule of Prince Miloš Obrenović. As observed from a political point of view, Obrenović saw the works of Karadžić as a potential hazard due to a number of apparent reasons, one of which was the possibility that the content of some of the works, although purely poetic in nature, was capable of creating a certain sense of patriotism and a desire for freedom and independence, which very likely might have driven the populace to take up arms against the Turks. This, in turn, would prove detrimental to Prince Miloš's politics toward the Ottoman Empire, with whom he had recently forged an uneasy peace. In Montenegro, however, Njegoš's printing press operated without the archaic letter known as the \"hard sign\". Prince Miloš was to resent Njegoš's abandonment of the hard sign, over which, at that time, furious intellectual battles were being waged, with ecclesiastical hierarchy involved as well. Karadžić's works, however, did receive high praise and recognition elsewhere, especially in Russia. In addition to this, Karadžić was granted a full pension from the Tsar in 1826.\n\nHe died in Vienna, and was survived by his daughter Mina Karadžić, who was a painter and writer, and by his son Dimitrije Karadžić, a military officer. His remains were relocated to Belgrade in 1897 and buried with great honours next to the grave of Dositej Obradović, in front of St. Michael's Cathedral (Belgrade).\n\nKaradžić reformed the Serbian literary language and standardised the Serbian Cyrillic alphabet by following strict phonemic principles on the Johann Christoph Adelung' model and Jan Hus' Czech alphabet. Karadžić's reforms of the Serbian literary language modernised it and distanced it from Serbian and Russian Church Slavonic, instead bringing it closer to common folk speech, specifically, to the dialect of Eastern Herzegovina which he spoke. Karadžić was, together with Đuro Daničić, the main Serbian signatory to the Vienna Literary Agreement of 1850 which, encouraged by Austrian authorities, laid the foundation for the Serbian language. Karadžić also translated the New Testament into Serbian, which was published in 1868. The Vukovian effort of language standardization lasted the remainder of the century. Before then the Serbs had achieved a fully independent state (1878), and a flourishing national culture based in Belgrade and Novi Sad. Despite the Vienna agreement, the Serbs had by this time developed an Ekavian pronunciation, which was the native speech of their two cultural capitals as well as the great majority of the Serbian population.\n\nIn addition to his linguistic reforms, Karadžić also contributed to folk literature, using peasant culture as the foundation. Because of his peasant upbringing, he closely associated with the oral literature of the peasants, compiling it to use in his collection of folk songs, tales, and proverbs. While Karadžić hardly considered peasant life romantic, he regarded it as an integral part of Serbian culture. He collected several volumes of folk prose and poetry, including a book of over 100 lyrical and epic songs learned as a child and written down from memory. He also published the first dictionary of vernacular Serbian. For his work he received little financial aid, at times living in poverty, though in the very last 9 years he did receive a pension from prince Miloš Obrenović. In some cases Karadžić hid the fact that he had not only collected folk poetry by recording the oral literature but transcribed it from manuscript songbooks of other collectors from Srem.\n\nBesides his greatest achievement on literary field, Karadžić gave his contribution to Serbian anthropology in combination with the ethnography of that time.\nHe left notes on physical aspects of the human body alongside his ethnographic notes. He introduced a rich terminology on body parts (from head to toes) into the literary language. It should be mentioned that these terms are still used, both in science and everyday speech. He gave, among other things, his own interpretation of the connection between environment and inhabitants, with parts on nourishment, living conditions, hygiene, diseases and funeral customs. All in all this considerable contribution of Vuk Karadžić is not that famous or studied.\n\nLiterary historian Jovan Deretić summarized his work as \"During his fifty years of tireless activity, he accomplished as much as an entire academy of sciences.\".\n\nKaradžić was honored across Europe. He was chosen as a member of various European learned societies, including:\n\n\nHe received several honorary doctorates. and was decorated by Russian and Austro-Hungarian monarchs, Prussian king, Nicholas I of Montenegro and Russian academy of science.\nUNESCO has proclaimed 1987 the year of Vuk Karadzić. Karadžić was also elected an honorary citizen of the city of Zagreb.\n\nOn the 100th anniversary of Karadžić's death (in 1964) student work brigades on youth action \"Tršić 64\" raised an amphitheater with a stage that was needed for organizing the \"Vuk's Council\", and \"Vuk's Student Council\". In 1987 Tršić received a comprehensive overhaul as a cultural-historical monument. Also, the road from Karadžić's home to Tronoša monastery was built.\n\nKaradžić's birth house was declared Monument of Culture of Exceptional Importance in 1979, and it is protected by Republic of Serbia.\nRecently, rural tourism has become popular in Tršić, with many families converting their houses into buildings designed to accommodate guests. TV series based on his life were broadcast on Radio Television of Serbia. His portrait is often seen in Serbian schools.\n\nA student of primary (age six or seven to fourteen or fifteen) or secondary (age fourteen or fifteen to eighteen or nineteen) school in Serbia, that is awarded best grades for all subjects at the end of a school year, for each year in turn, is awarded at the end of his final year a \"Vuk Karadžić diploma\" and is known (in common speech) as \"Vukovac\" a synonyme for a member of an elite group of highest performing students.\n\n\nTranslations:\n\nAlthough the above quotation is often attributed to Vuk Stefanović Karadžić in Serbia, it is in fact an orthographic principle devised by the German grammarian and philologist Johann Christoph Adelung. Karadžić merely used that principle to push through his language reform. The attribution of the quote to Karadžić is a common misconception in Serbia, Montenegro and the rest of former Yugoslavia. Due to that fact, the entrance exam to the University of Belgrade Faculty of Philology occasionally contains a question on the authorship of the quote (as a sort of trick question).\n\nPeople closely related to Vuk's work:\n\n\n"}
