{"id": "4238023", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4238023", "title": "1977 world oil market chronology", "text": "1977 world oil market chronology\n\n|-\n"}
{"id": "47437828", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47437828", "title": "1983 in Sri Lanka", "text": "1983 in Sri Lanka\n\nThe following lists events that happened during 1983 in Sri Lanka.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3490428", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3490428", "title": "19th-century Dutch literature", "text": "19th-century Dutch literature\n\nThis article deals with literature written in Dutch during the 19th century in the Dutch-speaking regions (Netherlands, Belgium, Dutch East Indies).\n\nThe last years of the 18th century, which had seen decline in the Republic, including the arts and international politics, were marked by a general revival of intellectual force. The romantic movement in Germany made itself deeply felt in all branches of Dutch literature and German lyricism took the place hitherto held by French classicism, in spite of the country falling to French expansionalism (see also History of the Netherlands).\n\nAgainst this backdrop, the most prominent writer was Willem Bilderdijk (1756–1831), an intellectual and intelligent man whose outspoken and eccentric worldview was partly caused by an illness during his adolescence that kept him indoors for ten years. Once recovered he lived a busy, eventful life, writing great quantities of verse; in 1809 he started writing the work he designed to be his masterpiece, the epic \"De Ondergang der Eerste Wereld\" (\"The Destruction of the First World\"), which remained unfinished and appeared as a fragment only in 1820.\n\nBilderdijk had no time for the new romantic style of poetry, but its fervour found its way into the Netherlands nevertheless, and first of all in the person of Hiëronymus van Alphen (1746–1803). Van Alphen is best remembered for the verses he wrote for children, which are still taught in kindergartens all over the country. Van Alphen was an exponent of the more sentimental school along with Rhijnvis Feith (1753–1824), whose romances are steeped in Weltschmerz.\n\nIn Hendrik Tollens (1780–1856) some the power of Bilderdijk and the sweetness of Feith were combined. He is best known for celebrating the great deeds of Dutch history in a series of lyrical romances. Today, Tollens is best known for his poem \"Wien Neêrlands Bloed\" (\"To Those in Whom Dutch Blood Flows Through the Veins\"), a nationalistic effort that, set to music, was the Dutch national anthem until 1932, when it was superseded by Marnix' \"Wilhelmus\". A poet of considerable talent, whose powers were awakened by personal intercourse with Tollens and his followers, was Antoni Christiaan Wijnandt Staring (1767–1840). Staring first published at the age of fifty-three only, but continued to write till past his seventieth year. His poems are a blend of romanticism and rationalism.\n\nDuring this period, the Low Countries had gone through major political upheaval. The Spanish Netherlands had first become the Austrian Netherlands before being annexed by France in 1794. The Republic, which had become a \"de facto\" monarchy in 1747 when the office of stadtholder became hereditary to the House of Orange-Nassau, saw a revolution inspired and backed by France that led to the Batavian Republic and Kingdom of Holland vassal states before actual French annexation in 1810. This transition period removed many old habits and institutions and provided for unitary government, the first constitution (1798) and uniform orthography (Matthias Siegenbeek's spelling).\n\nAfter Napoleon's downfall in the Southern Netherlands village of Waterloo, the northern and southern provinces were briefly united as the United Kingdom of the Netherlands; this period lasted until 1830 only, when the southern provinces seceded to form Belgium. This period had little influence in literature, and in the new state of Belgium, the status of the Dutch language remained largely unchanged as all governmental and educational affairs were conducted in French.\n\nIn scientific and religious literature men of letters showed themselves cognizant of the newest shades of opinion, and freely ventilated their ideas. The language resisted the pressure of German from the outside, and from within broke through its long stagnation and enriched itself, as a medium for literary expression, with a multitude of fresh and colloquial forms. At the same time, no very great genius arose in the Netherlands in any branch of literature. For the thirty or forty years preceding 1880 the course of literature in Holland was smooth and even sluggish. The Dutch writers had slipped into a conventionality of treatment and a strict limitation of form from which even the most striking talents among them could scarcely escape.\n\nPoetry and a large part of prose was dominated by the so-called school of ministers, as the leading writers all were or had been Calvinist ministers. As a result, many of their products emphasized Biblical and bourgeois domestic values. Prime examples include Everhardus Johannes Potgieter (1808–1875, lyric poetry) and Nicolaas Beets (1814–1903), who wrote large quantities of sermons and poetry under his own name but is chiefly remembered today for the humorous prose sketches of Dutch life in \"Camera Obscura\" (1839), which he wrote during his student days under the pseudonym of Hildebrand.\n\nA poet of power and promise was lost in the early death of P.A. de Genestet (1829–1861). His narrative poem \"De Sint-Nicolaasavond\" (\"Eve of Saint Nicholas\") appeared in 1849 and attained great popularity. Another poet who among others wrote verse for children was Jan Pieter Heije (1809–1876), whose songs are sung to this day. A poet who left no large contemporary impression but who is considered one of the very few readable 19th-century poets is Piet Paaltjens (ps. of François Haverschmidt, 1835–1894). Paaltjens personifies the pure Romantic vein exemplified in German literature by Heine and others. Criticism was best represented by W. J. A. Jonckbloet (1817–1885), who was the first to write a comprehensive history of Dutch literature (1870).\n\nUnder the influence of romantic nationalism, writers in Belgium began to reconsider their Flemish heritage and move for a recognition of the Dutch language in both official affairs (including education) and literature. Charles De Coster laid the foundations for a native Belgian literature by recounting the Flemish past in historic romances but wrote his works, including his masterpiece \"Légende de Thyl Ulenspiegel et de Lamme Goedzak\" (1867) in French. Hendrik Conscience (1812–1883), himself the son of a Frenchman, was the first to write about Flemish subjects in the Dutch language and so is considered the father of modern Flemish literature. In Flemish poetry, Guido Gezelle (1830–1899) is an important figure. Gezelle, an ordained journalist-cum-ethnologist, celebrated his faith and his Flemish roots using an archaic vocabulary based on Medieval Flemish dialects to the detriment of his intelligibility beyond his native West Flanders.\n\nAfter the restoration in 1815 to the Dutch state of the Dutch East Indies, former corporate Dutch East India Company possessions occupied by the United Kingdom during the Napoleonic era, works of literature continued to be produced there, among which the romances of Melati van Java (ps. of Nicolina Maria Christina Sloot, 1853–1927), which were widely read in both the Netherlands and Belgium. With the rise of social consciousness regarding the administration of the colonies and the treatment of their inhabitants, however, a far more influential voice rose from the Indies in the form of Multatuli (ps. of Eduard Douwes Dekker, 1820–1887), whose \"Max Havelaar\" (1860) is a scathing indictment of colonial mismanagement and one of the few 19th-century prose works still widely considered readable today. Although the Belgians had obtained colonial possessions in their own right with the Congo Free State/Belgian Congo, no Dutch-language literature was forthcoming as the territory was entirely Francophone.\n\nThe two leading Dutch men of letters in the mid-19th century besides Beets and Douwes Dekker were critics, Conrad Busken-Huet (1826–1886) and Carel Vosmaer (1826–1888). In Busken-Huet the principles of the 1830–1880 period were summed up; he had been during all those years the fearless and trusty watch-dog of Dutch letters as he understood them. He lived just long enough to become aware that a revolution was approaching, not to comprehend its character; but his accomplished fidelity to literary principle and his wide knowledge have been honoured even by the most bitter of the younger school.\n\nIn November 1881 Jacques Perk (born 1860) died, a young poet who had done no more than publish a few sonnets in a journal published by Vosmaer. He was no sooner dead, however, than his posthumous poems, and in particular a cycle of sonnets called \"Mathilde\", were published (1882) and awakened extraordinary emotion. Perk had rejected all the formulas of rhetorical poetry, and had broken up the conventional rhythms. There had been heard no music like his in Holland for two hundred years.\n\nA group of young men collected around his name. They were joined by a poet-novelist-dramatist somewhat older than themselves, Marcellus Emants (1848–1923). Emants had written a symbolical poem called \"Lilith\" in 1879 that had been stigmatised as audacious and meaningless; encouraged by the admiration of his juniors, Emants published in 1881 a treatise in the form of a novel in which the first open attack was made on the old school.\n\nThe next appearance was that of Willem Kloos (1857–1938), who had been the editor and intimate friend of Perk, and who now undertook to lead the army of rebellion. His violent attacks on recognized authority in aesthetics began in 1882 and created a considerable scandal. For some time the new poets and critics found a great difficulty in being heard as all the channels of periodical literature were closed to them, but in 1884 the young school founded a review, \"De Nieuwe Gids\" (\"The New Guide\"), which was able to offer a direct challenge to \"De Gids\" (\"The Guide\"), the old guard's periodical. The new movement was called \"Tachtigers\" or \"Movement of (Eighteen-)Eighty\", after the decade in which it arose. The \"Tachtigers\" insisted that style must match content, and that intimate and visceral emotions can only be expressed using an intimate and visceral writing style.\n\nIn the same year 1884 a new element was introduced. Until now, the influences of the young Dutch poetry had chiefly come from the United Kingdom; they were those of Shelley, Mrs Browning, the Rossettis (Dante and Christina). The French naturalists now became an additional ingredient and for some time the new Dutch literature became a sort of mixture of Shelley and Zola, heady and bewildering. This was the great flowering moment of the new school.\nOne of the most important Dutch novelists, Louis Couperus (1863–1923), had his roots in the \"Tachtigers\" movement. His boyhood years were spent in Java, and he had preserved in all his nature a certain tropical magnificence. His first literary efforts were lyrics in the \"Tachtigers\" style, but Couperus proved far more important and durable as a novelist and his earliest story, \"Eline Vere\" (1889) already took him out of the ranks of his contemporaries. In 1891 he published \"Noodlot\", which was translated into English as \"Footsteps of Fate\" It was greatly admired by Oscar Wilde, whose \"The Picture of Dorian Gray\" is said to have been influenced by it. Couperus continued to pour out one important novel after another until his death in 1923. He separated himself, as he developed, from the more fanatical members of the \"Tachtigers\" group, and addressed himself to the wider public. Another talent for prose was revealed by Frederik van Eeden (1860–1932) in \"De kleine Johannes\" (\"Little Johnny\", 1887) and in \"Van de koele meren des doods\" (\"From the Cold Pools of Death\", 1901), a melancholy novel.\n\nAfter 1887 the condition of modern Dutch literature remained comparatively stationary, and within the last decade of the 19th century was definitely declining. In 1889 a new poet, Herman Gorter (1864–1927) made his appearance with an epic poem called \"Mei\" (\"May\"), eccentric both in prosody and in treatment. He held his own without any marked advance towards lucidity or variety. Since the recognition of Gorter, however, no really remarkable talent has made itself prominent in Dutch poetry except P.C. Boutens (1870–1943), whose \"Verzen\" (\"Verses\") in 1898 were received with great respect.\n\nWillem Kloos, still the acute and somewhat turbulent leader of the school, collected his poems in 1894 and his critical essays in 1896. The others, with the exception of Couperus, showed symptoms of sinking into silence. The entire school, now that the struggle for recognition was over, and its members were accepted as the mainstream, rested on its triumphs and soon limited itself to a repetition of its old experiments.\n\nThe leading dramatist at the close of the century was Herman Heijermans (1864–1924), a writer of strong realistic and socialistic tendencies who single-handedly brought Dutch theatre into the modern time. His \"Ghetto\" (1898) and \"Ora et labora\" (1901) particularly display his peculiar talent, while his fishermen's tragedy \"Op hoop van zegen\" (\"Trusting Our Fate in the Hands of God\"), which is still staged and has been filmed more than once , remains his most popular play.\n\n"}
{"id": "7992679", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7992679", "title": "Abraham Berliner", "text": "Abraham Berliner\n\nAbraham (Adolf) Berliner (May 2, 1833 – April 21, 1915) (Hebrew: אברהם ברלינר) was a German theologian and historian, born in Obersitzko, in the Grand Duchy of Posen, Prussia. He received his first education under his father, who was teacher in Obersitzko. He continued his education under various rabbis, preparing himself at the same time for the University of Leipzig, where he received the degree of doctor of philosophy.\n\nAfter serving for some time as preacher and teacher in Arnswalde, Berliner was called (1865) to Berlin as superintendent of the religious school maintained by the society for Talmudic studies (Ḥebrat Shas), and in 1873, when Israel Hildesheimer opened the rabbinical seminary in Berlin, Berliner was elected professor of Jewish history and literature. In this position, as well as in that of author, he has displayed an untiring activity. His edition of Rashi's commentary to the Pentateuch (1866) first made him known as a scholar; he added to his reputation by various historical works, the result of his studies in the archives and libraries of Italy, which country he frequently visited, subventioned by the German government.\n\nBerliner edited for two years (1874–75) the scientific periodical \"Magazin für Jüdische Geschichte und Literatur,\" which from 1876 to 1893 he, together with his colleague, David Hoffmann, continued under the title \"Magazin für die Wissenschaft des Judenthums.\" It was due to his zeal that the society Meḳiẓe Nirdamim, for the publication of works of the older Jewish literature, which had been discontinued for several years, was revived in 1885 with Berliner as its director. He further acted as the apologist of Judaism in a pamphlet against Lagarde (\"Prof. Paul de Lagarde, nach Seiner Natur Gezeichnet,\" 1887), who denounced all Jewish scholars as dilettanti; and when the blood accusation was revived, he republished (1888) the opinion of Cardinal Ganganelli—afterward Pope Clement XIV—to prove the falsity of this charge.\n\nWhile orthodox in his religious views, Berliner was never a fanatic. He not only associated in his scientific work with the liberals, but also paid a high tribute to the merits of Moritz Steinschneider on the occasion of the latter's seventieth birthday (1886), by compiling a bibliography of that eminent scholar's works.\n\nThe following is a list of Berliner's works:\n\n"}
{"id": "5514416", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5514416", "title": "Abu al-Ghazi Bahadur", "text": "Abu al-Ghazi Bahadur\n\nAbu al-Ghazi Bahadur (, Abulgazi, Ebulgazi, Abu-l-Ghazi, August 24, 1603 – 1663) was a khan of the Khanate of Khiva from 1643 to 1663. He spent ten years in Persia before becoming khan, and was very well educated, writing two historical works in the Khiva dialect of the Chagatai language.\n\nHe was born in Urgench, Khanate of Khiva, the son of ruler 'Arab Muhammad Khan. He fled to the Safavid court in Isfahan after a power struggle arose among him and his brothers. He lived there in exile from 1629 until 1639 studying Persian and Arabic history. In 1644 or 1645 he acceded to the throne, a position he would hold for twenty years. He died in Khiva in 1663.\n\nAbu al-Ghazi is known as the author of two historical works: \"Genealogy of the Turkmen\" \"Shajare-i Tarakime\" finished in 1661 and \"Genealogy of the Turks\" \"Shajare-i Türk\" finished in 1665. These are important sources for modern knowledge of Central Asian history.\n\nThe \"Shajare-i Türk\" was Abu al-Ghazi's opus magnum, its title was variously translated as \"Genealogy of the Turks\" and \"Genealogy of the Tatars\", \"shajare\" being Turkic for \"genealogy\". According to Abu al-Ghazi, in \"Shajare-i Türk\" he used the work of Rashid-al-Din Hamadani, Sharaf ad-Din Ali Yazdi, and other writers, totalling 18 historical sources, and corrected them in accordance with Turkic oral traditions which he was taught as a Prince. A manuscript of the \"Shajare-i Türk\" was purchased in Tobolsk from a Bukhara merchant by Swedish officers detained in Russian captivity in Siberia; using the local literate Tatars, the Swedish officers first translated the book into Russian, and then they retranslated it into various other languages. The French translation of the \"Shajare-i Türk\" was first published in Leiden in 1726, the French translation served as an original for a Russian translation published in 1768-1774, in 1780 it was published separately in German and English, and during the 18th century was widely read in Europe.\n\nIn the 19th and 20th centuries were published numerous critical translations of the \"Shajare-i Türk\", which serve as historical sources for modern scholars. The first critical translation, performed by professional scholars, was published in Kazan in 1825. The Turkish translation of the text published in Kazan was done by philologist Vefik Ahmed Pasha and initially published in 1864. The most influential Western publication was \"Historie des Mogols et des Tatares par Aboul-Ghazi Behadour Khan, publiee, traduite et annotee par le baron Desmaisons\", St.-Petersbourg 1871-1874.\n\nN.Ya. Bichurin was the first to notice that the biography of the epic ancestor of the Turkic people Oguz-Kagan by Abu al-Ghazi and the Turco-Persian manuscripts (Rashid al-Din, Hondemir, Abulgazi) has a striking similarity with the Maodun biography in the Chinese sources (feud between father and son and murder of the latter, the direction and sequence of conquests, etc.). That observation, confirmed by other scholars, associated in the scientific literature the name of Maodun with the epic personality of the Oguz-Kagan. The similarity is even more remarkable because at the time of the writing, no Chinese annals were translated into either oriental or western languages, and Abu al-Ghazi could not have known about Eastern Huns or Maodun.\n\nThe literary significance of \"Shajare-i Türk\" is that Abu al-Ghazi openly spoke against Chaghatay literary language because it carried a strong Persian influence. Abu al-Ghazi language is easy, simple folk language of the Khiva Uzbeks and is quite different from the Chaghatay literary language. The style of Abu al-Ghazi, despite a scientific nature of his compositions, is distinguished by clarity and richness of vocabulary, and is interspersed with the falk Uzbek expressions and proverbs.\n\nAbu al-Ghazi's son, Abu al-Muzaffar Anusha Muhammad Bahadur, reassigned to complete the work of his father \"Shajare-i Türk\" to a certain Mahmud bin Mulla Muhammad Zaman Urgench. It was finalized in 1665. The work lists a Turkic genealogy starting from the biblical Adam and the primogenitor of the Turks, Oguz-Khan, and provides legendary details on their descendents including Chengiz Khan and the Shaybanid dynasty, providing a good picture of Mongol and Turkic historical understanding of the time.\n\n\n16413 Abulghazi, an asteroid which was discovered on 28 January 1987 by Eric Walter Elst at La Silla Observatory, Chile, was named after him.\n\n"}
{"id": "7062377", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7062377", "title": "Aftermath of World War II", "text": "Aftermath of World War II\n\nThe Aftermath of World War II was the beginning of an era defined by the decline of all European colonial empires and the simultaneous rise of two superpowers: the Soviet Union (USSR) and the United States (USA). Allies during World War II, the USA and the USSR became competitors on the world stage and engaged in the Cold War, so called because it never resulted in overt, declared hot war between the two powers but was instead characterized by espionage, political subversion and proxy wars. Western Europe and Japan were rebuilt through the American Marshall Plan whereas Central and Eastern Europe fell under the Soviet sphere of influence and eventually behind an \"Iron Curtain\". Europe was divided into a US-led Western Bloc and a Soviet-led Eastern Bloc. Internationally, alliances with the two blocs gradually shifted, with some nations trying to stay out of the Cold War through the Non-Aligned Movement. The Cold War also saw a nuclear arms race between the two superpowers; part of the reason that the Cold War never became a \"hot\" war was that the Soviet Union and the United States had nuclear deterrents against each other, leading to a mutually assured destruction standoff.\n\nAs a consequence of the war, the Allies created the United Nations, an organization for international cooperation and diplomacy, similar to the League of Nations. Members of the United Nations agreed to outlaw wars of aggression in an attempt to avoid a third world war. The devastated great powers of Western Europe formed the European Coal and Steel Community, which later evolved into the European Economic Community and ultimately into the current European Union. This effort primarily began as an attempt to avoid another war between Germany and France by economic cooperation and integration, and a common market for important natural resources. \n\nThe end of the war also increased the rate of decolonization from the great powers with independence being granted to India (from the United Kingdom), Indonesia (from the Netherlands), the Philippines (from the US) and a number of Arab nations, primarily from specific rights which had been granted to great powers from League of Nations Mandates in the post World War I-era but often having existed \"de facto\" well before this time. Independence for the nations of Sub-Saharan Africa came more slowly.\n\nThe aftermath of World War II also saw the rise of communist influence in Southeast Asia, with the People's Republic of China, as the Chinese Communist Party emerged victorious from the Chinese Civil War in 1949.\n\nAt the end of the war, millions of people were dead and millions more homeless, the European economy had collapsed, and much of the European industrial infrastructure had been destroyed. The Soviet Union, too, had been heavily affected. In response, in 1947, U.S. Secretary of State George Marshall devised the \"European Recovery Program\", which became known as the Marshall Plan. Under the plan, during 1948–1952 the United States government allocated US$13 billion (US$ billion in 2017 dollars) for the reconstruction of Western Europe.\n\nBy the end of the war, the economy of the United Kingdom was one of severe privation. More than a quarter of its national wealth had been consumed. Until the introduction in 1941 of Lend-Lease aid from the US, the UK had been spending its assets to purchase American equipment including aircraft and ships—over £437 million on aircraft alone. Lend-lease came just before its reserves were exhausted. Britain had placed 55% of its total labour force into war production.\n\nIn spring 1945, the Labour Party withdrew from the wartime coalition government, in an effort to oust Winston Churchill, forcing a general election. Following a landslide victory, Labour held more than 60% of the seats in the House of Commons and formed a new government on 26 July 1945 under Clement Attlee.\n\nBritain's war debt was described by some in the American administration as a \"millstone round the neck of the British economy\". Although there were suggestions for an international conference to tackle the issue, in August 1945 the U.S. announced unexpectedly that the Lend-Lease programme was to end immediately.\n\nThe abrupt withdrawal of American Lend-Lease support to Britain on 2 September 1945 dealt a severe blow to the plans of the new government. It was only with the completion of the Anglo-American loan by the United States to Great Britain on 15 July 1946 that some measure of economic stability was restored. However, the loan was made primarily to support British overseas expenditure in the immediate post-war years and not to implement the Labour government's policies for domestic welfare reforms and the nationalisation of key industries. Although the loan was agreed on reasonable terms, its conditions included what proved to be damaging fiscal conditions for Sterling. From 1946-1948, the UK introduced bread rationing which it never did during the war.\n\nThe Soviet Union suffered enormous losses in the war against Germany. The Soviet population decreased by about 27\nmillion during the war; of these, 8.7 million were combat deaths. The 19 million non-combat deaths had a variety of causes: starvation in the siege of Leningrad; conditions in German prisons and concentration camps; mass shootings of civilians; harsh labour in German industry; famine and disease; conditions in Soviet camps; and service in German or German-controlled military units fighting the Soviet Union. The population would not return to its pre-war level for 30 years.\n\nSoviet ex-POWs and civilians repatriated from abroad were suspected of having been Nazi collaborators, and 226,127 of them were sent to forced labour camps after scrutiny by Soviet intelligence, NKVD. Many ex-POWs and young civilians were also conscripted to serve in the Red Army. Others worked in labour battalions to rebuild infrastructure destroyed during the war.\n\nThe economy had been devastated. Roughly a quarter of the Soviet Union's capital resources were destroyed, and industrial and agricultural output in 1945 fell far short of pre-war levels. To help rebuild the country, the Soviet government obtained limited credits from Britain and Sweden; it refused assistance offered by the United States under the Marshall Plan. Instead, the Soviet Union coerced Soviet-occupied Central and Eastern Europe to supply machinery and raw materials. Germany and former Nazi satellites made reparations to the Soviet Union. The reconstruction programme emphasised heavy industry to the detriment of agriculture and consumer goods. By 1953, steel production was twice its 1940 level, but the production of many consumer goods and foodstuffs was lower than it had been in the late 1920s.\n\nThe immediate post-war period in Europe was dominated by the Soviet Union annexing, or converting into Soviet Socialist Republics, all the countries invaded and annexed by the Red Army driving the Germans out of central and eastern Europe. New satellite states were set up by the Soviets in Poland, Bulgaria, Hungary, Czechoslovakia, Romania, Albania, and East Germany; the last of these was created from the Soviet zone of occupation in Germany. Yugoslavia emerged as an independent Communist state allied but not aligned with the Soviet Union, owing to the independent nature of the military victory of the Partisans of Josip Broz Tito during World War II in Yugoslavia. The Allies established the Far Eastern Commission and Allied Council for Japan to administer their occupation of that country while the establishment Allied Control Council, administered occupied Germany. In accordance with the Potsdam Conference agreements, the Soviet Union occupied and subsequently annexed the strategic island of Sakhalin.\n\nIn the west, Alsace-Lorraine was returned to France. The Sudetenland reverted to Czechoslovakia following the European Advisory Commission's decision to delimit German territory to be the territory it held on 31 December 1937. Close to one-quarter of pre-war (1937) Germany was \"de facto\" annexed by the Allies; roughly 10 million Germans were either expelled from this territory or not permitted to return to it if they had fled during the war. The remainder of Germany was partitioned into four zones of occupation, coordinated by the Allied Control Council. The Saar was detached and put in economic union with France in 1947. In 1949, the Federal Republic of Germany was created out of the Western zones. The Soviet zone became the German Democratic Republic.\n\nGermany paid reparations to the United Kingdom, France, and the Soviet Union, mainly in the form of dismantled factories, forced labour, and coal. German standard of living was to be reduced to its 1932 level. Beginning immediately after the German surrender and continuing for the next two years, the US and Britain pursued an \"intellectual reparations\" programme to harvest all technological and scientific know-how as well as all patents in Germany. The value of these amounted to around US$10 billion (US$ billion in 2017 dollars). In accordance with the Paris Peace Treaties, 1947, reparations were also assessed from the countries of Italy, Romania, Hungary, Bulgaria, and Finland.\nUS policy in post-war Germany from April 1945 until July 1947 had been that no help should be given to the Germans in rebuilding their nation, save for the minimum required to mitigate starvation. The Allies' immediate post-war \"industrial disarmament\" plan for Germany had been to destroy Germany's capability to wage war by complete or partial de-industrialization. The first industrial plan for Germany, signed in 1946, required the destruction of 1,500 manufacturing plants to lower German heavy industry output to roughly 50% of its 1938 level. Dismantling of West German industry ended in 1951. By 1950, equipment had been removed from 706 manufacturing plants, and steel production capacity had been reduced by 6.7 million tons. After lobbying by the Joint Chiefs of Staff and Generals Lucius D. Clay and George Marshall, the Truman administration accepted that economic recovery in Europe could not go forward without the reconstruction of the German industrial base on which it had previously been dependent. In July 1947, President Truman rescinded on \"national security grounds\" the directive that had ordered the US occupation forces to \"take no steps looking toward the economic rehabilitation of Germany.\" A new directive recognised that \"[a]n orderly, prosperous Europe requires the economic contributions of a stable and productive Germany.\" From mid-1946 onwards Germany received US government aid through the GARIOA programme. From 1948 onwards West Germany also became a minor beneficiary of the Marshall Plan. Volunteer organisations had initially been forbidden to send food, but in early 1946 the Council of Relief Agencies Licensed to Operate in Germany was founded. The prohibition against sending CARE Packages to individuals in Germany was rescinded on 5 June 1946.\n\nAfter the German surrender, the International Red Cross was prohibited from providing aid such as food or visiting POW camps for Germans inside Germany. However, after making approaches to the Allies in the autumn of 1945 it was allowed to investigate the camps in the UK and French occupation zones of Germany, as well as to provide relief to the prisoners held there. On 4 February 1946, the Red Cross was permitted to visit and assist prisoners also in the U.S. occupation zone of Germany, although only with very small quantities of food. The Red Cross petitioned successfully for improvements to be made in the living conditions of German POWs.\n\nThe 1947 Treaty of Peace with Italy spelled the end of the Italian colonial empire, along with other border revisions. The 1947 Paris Peace Treaties compelled Italy to pay $360 million (US dollars at 1938 prices) in war reparations: $125 million to Yugoslavia, $105 million to Greece, $100 million to the Soviet Union, $25 million to Ethiopia and $5 million to Albania. In the 1946 Italian constitutional referendum the Italian monarchy was abolished, having been associated with the deprivations of the war and the Fascist rule, especially in the North.\n\nUnlike in Germany and Japan, no war crimes tribunals were held against Italian military and political leaders, though the Italian resistance summarily executed some of them (such as Mussolini) at the end of the war; the Togliatti amnesty, taking its name from the Communist Party secretary at the time, pardoned all wartime common and political crimes in 1946.\n\nThe Federal State of Austria had been annexed by Germany in 1938 (Anschluss, this union was banned by the Treaty of Versailles). Austria (called Ostmark by the Germans) was separated from Germany and divided into four zones of occupation. With the Austrian State Treaty, these zones reunited in 1955 to become the Republic of Austria.\n\nAfter the war, the Allies rescinded Japanese pre-war annexations such as Manchuria, and Korea became independent. The Philippines and Guam were returned to the United States. Burma, Malaya, and Singapore were returned to Britain and French Indo-China back to France. The Dutch East Indies was to be handed back to the Dutch but was resisted leading to the Indonesian war for independence. At the Yalta Conference, US President Franklin D. Roosevelt had secretly traded the Japanese Kurils and south Sakhalin to the Soviet Union in return for Soviet entry in the war with Japan. The Soviet Union annexed the Kuril Islands, provoking the Kuril Islands dispute, which is ongoing, as Russia continues to occupy the islands.\n\nHundreds of thousands of Japanese were forced to relocate to the Japanese main islands. Okinawa became a main US staging point. The US covered large areas of it with military bases and continued to occupy it until 1972, years after the end of the occupation of the main islands. The bases still remain. To skirt the Geneva Convention, the Allies classified many Japanese soldiers as Japanese Surrendered Personnel instead of POWs and used them as forced labour until 1947. The UK, France, and the Netherlands conscripted some Japanese troops to fight colonial resistances elsewhere in Asia. General Douglas MacArthur established the International Military Tribunal for the Far East. The Allies collected reparations from Japan.\n\nTo further remove Japan as a potential future military threat, the Far Eastern Commission decided to de-industrialise Japan, with the goal of reducing Japanese standard of living to what prevailed between 1930 and 1934. In the end, the de-industrialisation programme in Japan was implemented to a lesser degree than the one in Germany. Japan received emergency aid from GARIOA, as did Germany. In early 1946, the Licensed Agencies for Relief in Asia were formed and permitted to supply Japanese with food and clothes. In April 1948 the Johnston Committee Report recommended that the economy of Japan should be reconstructed due to the high cost to US taxpayers of continuous emergency aid.\n\nSurvivors of the atomic bombings of Hiroshima and Nagasaki, known as hibakusha (被爆者), were ostracized by Japanese society. Japan provided no special assistance to these people until 1952. By the 65th anniversary of the bombings, total casualties from the initial attack and later deaths reached about 270,000 in Hiroshima and 150,000 in Nagasaki. About 230,000 hibakusha were still alive , and about 2,200 were suffering from radiation-caused illnesses .\n\nIn the Winter War of 1939–1940, the Soviet Union invaded neutral Finland and annexed some of its territory. From 1941 until 1944, Finland aligned itself with Nazi Germany in a failed effort to regain lost territories from the Soviets. Finland retained its independence following the war but remained subject to Soviet-imposed constraints in its domestic affairs.\n\nIn 1940 the Soviet Union invaded and annexed the neutral Baltic states, Estonia, Latvia, and Lithuania. In June 1941, the Soviet governments of the Baltic states carried out mass deportations of \"enemies of the people\"; as a result, many treated the invading Nazis as liberators when they invaded only a week later.\n\nThe Atlantic Charter promised self-determination to peoples deprived of it during the war. The British Prime Minister, Winston Churchill, argued for a weaker interpretation of the Charter to permit the Soviet Union to continue to control the Baltic states. In March 1944 the U.S. accepted Churchill's view that the Atlantic Charter did not apply to the Baltic states.\n\nWith the return of Soviet troops at the end of the war, the Forest Brothers mounted a guerrilla war. This continued until the mid-1950s.\n\nAn estimated one million military and civilian Filipinos were killed from all causes; of these 131,028 were listed as killed in seventy-two war crime events. According to a United States analysis released years after the war, U.S. casualties were 10,380 dead and 36,550 wounded; Japanese dead were 255,795.\n\nAs a result of the new borders drawn by the victorious nations, large populations suddenly found themselves in hostile territory. The Soviet Union took over areas formerly controlled by Germany, Finland, Poland, and Japan. Poland lost the Kresy region (about half of its pre-War territory) and received most of Germany east of the Oder-Neisse line, including the industrial regions of Silesia. The German state of the Saar was temporarily a protectorate of France but later returned to German administration. As set forth at Potsdam, approximately 12 million people were expelled from Germany, including seven million from Germany proper, and three million from the Sudetenland.\n\nDuring the war, the United States government interned approximately 110,000 Japanese Americans and Japanese who lived along the Pacific coast of the United States in the wake of Imperial Japan's attack on Pearl Harbor. Canada interned approximately 22,000 Japanese Canadians, 14,000 of whom were born in Canada. After the war, some internees chose to return to Japan, while most remained in North America.\n\nThe Soviet Union expelled at least 2 million Poles from east of the new border approximating the Curzon Line. This estimate is uncertain as both the Polish Communist government and the Soviet government did not keep track of the number of expelled. The number of Polish citizens inhabiting Polish borderlands (Kresy region) was about 13 million before World War II broke out according to official Polish statistics. Polish citizens killed in the war that originated from the Polish borderlands territory (killed by both German Nazi regime and the Soviet regime or expelled to distant parts of Siberia) were accounted as Russian, Ukrainian or Belarusian casualties of war in official Soviet historiography. This fact imposes additional difficulties in making the correct estimation of the number of Polish citizens forcibly transferred after the war. The border change also reversed the results of the 1919-1920 Polish-Soviet War. Former Polish cities such as Lwów came under control of the Ukrainian Soviet Socialist Republic. Additionally, the Soviet Union transferred more than two million people within their own borders; these included Germans, Finns, Crimean Tatars, and Chechens.\n\nAs Soviet troops marched across the Balkans, they committed rapes and robberies in Romania, Hungary, Czechoslovakia\nand Yugoslavia. The population of Bulgaria was largely spared this treatment, due possibly to a sense of ethnic kinship or to the leadership of Marshal Fyodor Tolbukhin. The population of Germany was treated significantly worse. Rape and murder of German civilians was as bad as, and sometimes worse than, Nazi propaganda had anticipated. Political officers encouraged Soviet troops to seek revenge and terrorise the German population. On \"the basis of \"Hochrechnungen\" (projections or estimations)\", \"1.9 million German women altogether were raped at the end of the war by Red Army soldiers.\" About one-third of all German women in Berlin were raped by Soviet forces. A substantial minority was raped multiple times. In Berlin, contemporary hospital records indicate between 95,000 and 130,000 women were raped by Soviet troops. About 10,000 of these women died, mostly by suicide. Over 4.5 million Germans fled towards the West. The Soviets initially had no rules against their troops \"fraternising\" with German women, but by 1947 they started to isolate their troops from the German population in an attempt to stop rape and robbery by the troops. Not all Soviet soldiers participated in these activities.\n\nForeign reports of Soviet brutality were denounced as false. Rape, robbery, and murder were blamed on German bandits impersonating Soviet soldiers. Some justified Soviet brutality towards German civilians based on previous brutality of German troops toward Russian civilians. Until the reunification of Germany, East German histories virtually ignored the actions of Soviet troops, and Russian histories still tend to do so. Reports of mass rapes by Soviet troops were often dismissed as anti-Communist propaganda or the normal byproduct of war.\n\nRapes also occurred under other occupation forces, though the majority were committed by Soviet troops. French Moroccan troops matched the behaviour of Soviet troops when it came to rape, especially in the early occupations of Baden and Württemberg. In a letter to the editor of \"TIME\" published in September 1945, an American army sergeant wrote, \"Our own Army and the British Army along with ours have done their share of looting and raping ... This offensive attitude among our troops is not at all general, but the percentage is large enough to have given our Army a pretty black name, and we too are considered an army of rapists.\" Robert Lilly’s analysis of military records led him to conclude about 14,000 rapes occurred in Britain, France, and Germany at the hands of US soldiers between 1942 and 1945. Lilly assumed that only 5% of rapes by American soldiers were reported, making 17,000 GI rapes a possibility, while analysts estimate that 50% of (ordinary peace-time) rapes are reported. Supporting Lilly's lower figure is the \"crucial difference\" that for World War II military rapes \"it was the commanding officer, not the victim, who brought charges\".\n\nGerman soldiers left many war children behind in nations such as France and Denmark, which were occupied for an extended period. After the war, the children and their mothers often suffered recriminations. In Norway, the “Tyskerunger“ (German-kids) suffered greatly.\n\nIn the first few weeks of the American military occupation of Japan, rape and other violent crime was widespread in naval ports like Yokohama and Yokosuka but declined shortly afterward. There were 1,336 reported rapes during the first 10 days of the occupation of Kanagawa prefecture. Historian Toshiyuki Tanaka relates that in Yokohama, the capital of the prefecture, there were 119 known rapes in September 1945.\n\nHistorians Eiji Takemae and Robert Ricketts state that \"When US paratroopers landed in Sapporo, an orgy of looting, sexual violence, and drunken brawling ensued. Gang rapes and other sex atrocities were not infrequent\" and some of the rape victims committed suicide.\n\nGeneral Robert L. Eichelberger, the commander of the U.S. Eighth Army, recorded that in the one instance when the Japanese formed a self-help vigilante guard to protect women from off-duty GIs, the Eighth Army ordered armored vehicles in battle array into the streets and arrested the leaders, and the leaders received long prison terms.\n\nAccording to Takemae and Ricketts, members of the British Commonwealth Occupation Force (BCOF) were also involved in rapes:\n\nRape committed by U.S. soldiers occupying Okinawa was also a notable phenomenon. Okinawan historian Oshiro Masayasu (former director of the Okinawa Prefectural Historical Archives) writes:\n\nAccording to Toshiyuki Tanaka, 76 cases of rape or rape-murder were reported during the first five years of the American occupation of Okinawa. However, he claims this is probably not the true figure, as most cases were unreported.\n\nOne of the largest changes post-war was the global shift in those nations of authority. European influence in the Americas, Africa, and Asia diminished significantly, and only some of them managed to hold onto their colonial outposts, such as; Great Britain, France, and Holland. While the United States was considered one of two of the largest military and political powers after World War II, they did not show interest in colonizing with the exception of Puerto Rico and the US Virgin Islands.\n\nHowever, they did not hesitate to enforce their military strength; if there were protests from local governments asking for higher wages and better working conditions from US firms that have bases in Latin America, Washington would step in and destabilize the current government in order to establish one that was more compliant to their desires.\n\nThe increased industrialization in Latin America led to a need for a more educated workforce who knew how to operate the new machinery. This led to a previously unprecedented number of people attending schools for higher education when previously citizens rarely completed secondary school. Large numbers of women went on to pursue higher education for the first time, and this gave more opportunity for women in professions and employment in general outside of the home.\n\nUniversities also grew, and this led to a more progressive and left-leaning institutional setting; a larger number of people going to higher education led to a larger amount of the population being aware of and willing to challenge inequalities in society and were preoccupied with social justice and improving the infrastructure and government bureaucracy so it would serve all instead of a select privileged few.\nThese progressions managed to bring to light that while the middle class population was increasing, prosperity was absent from poor areas, both urban and rural, and this led to subsistence living or crowding into makeshift settlements on the outskirts of cities and towns. Often, such as in the Rocinho \"favela\" near Rio de Janeiro’s South Zone, these poor settlements were placed directly adjacent to more wealthy residences, which emphasizes even more clearly how disproportionate these two class groups were, and still are today.\n\nThe alliance between the Western Allies and the Soviet Union began to deteriorate even before the war was over, when Stalin, Roosevelt, and Churchill exchanged a heated correspondence over whether the Polish government-in-exile, backed by Roosevelt and Churchill, or the Provisional Government, backed by Stalin, should be recognised. Stalin won.\n\nA number of allied leaders felt that war between the United States and the Soviet Union was likely. On 19 May 1945, American Under-Secretary of State Joseph Grew went so far as to say that it was inevitable.\n\nOn 5 March 1946, in his speech at Westminster College in Fulton, Missouri, Winston Churchill said \"a shadow\" had fallen over Europe. He described Stalin as having dropped an \"Iron Curtain\" between East and West. Stalin responded by charging that co-existence between communist countries and the West was impossible. In mid-1948 the Soviet Union imposed a blockade on the Western zone of occupation in Berlin.\n\nDue to the rising tension in Europe and concerns over further Soviet expansion, American planners came up with a contingency plan code-named \"Operation Dropshot\" in 1949. It considered possible nuclear and conventional war with the Soviet Union and its allies in order to counter a Soviet takeover of Western Europe, the Near East and parts of Eastern Asia that they anticipated would begin around 1957. In response, the US would saturate the Soviet Union with atomic and high-explosive bombs, and then invade and occupy the country. In later years, to reduce military expenditures while countering Soviet conventional strength, President Dwight Eisenhower would adopt a strategy of massive retaliation, relying on the threat of a US nuclear strike to prevent non-nuclear incursions by the Soviet Union in Europe and elsewhere. The approach entailed a major buildup of US nuclear forces and a corresponding reduction in America's non-nuclear ground and naval strength. The Soviet Union viewed these developments as \"atomic blackmail\".\n\nIn Greece, civil war broke out in 1946 between Anglo-American-supported royalist forces and communist-led forces, with the royalist forces emerging as the victors. The US launched a massive programme of military and economic aid to Greece and to neighbouring Turkey, arising from a fear that the Soviet Union stood on the verge of breaking through the NATO defence line to the oil-rich Middle East. On 12 March 1947, to gain Congressional support for the aid, President Truman described the aid as promoting democracy in defence of the \"free world\", a principle that became known as the Truman Doctrine.\n\nThe US sought to promote an economically strong and politically united Western Europe to counter the threat posed by the Soviet Union. This was done openly using tools such as the European Recovery Program, which encouraged European economic integration. The International Authority for the Ruhr, designed to keep German industry down and controlled, evolved into the European Coal and Steel Community, a founding pillar of the European Union. The United States also worked covertly to promote European integration, for example using the American Committee on United Europe to funnel funds to European federalist movements. In order to ensure that Western Europe could withstand the Soviet military threat, the Western European Union was founded in 1948 and NATO in 1949. The first NATO Secretary General, Lord Ismay, famously stated the organisation's goal was \"to keep the Russians out, the Americans in, and the Germans down\". However, without the manpower and industrial output of West Germany no conventional defence of Western Europe had any hope of succeeding. To remedy this, in 1950 the US sought to promote the European Defence Community, which would have included a rearmed West Germany. The attempt was dashed when the French Parliament rejected it. On 9 May 1955, West Germany was instead admitted to NATO; the immediate result was the creation of the Warsaw Pact five days later.\n\nThe Cold War also saw the creation of propaganda and espionage organisations such as Radio Free Europe, the Information Research Department, the Gehlen Organization, the Central Intelligence Agency, the Special Activities Division, and the Ministry for State Security.\n\nIn Asia, the surrender of Japanese forces was complicated by the split between East and West as well as by the movement toward national self-determination in European colonial territories.\n\nAs agreed at the Yalta Conference, the Soviet Union went to war against Japan three months after the defeat of Germany. The Soviet forces invaded Manchuria. This was the end of the Manchukuo puppet state and all Japanese settlers were forced to leave China. The Soviet Union dismantled the industrial base in Manchuria built up by the Japanese in the preceding years. Manchuria also became a base for the Communist Chinese forces because of the Soviet presence.\n\nAfter the war, the Kuomintang (KMT) party (led by generalissimo Chiang Kai-shek) and the Communist Chinese forces resumed their civil war, which had been temporarily suspended when they fought together against Japan. The fight against the Japanese occupiers had strengthened popular support among the Chinese for the Communist guerrilla forces while it weakened the KMT, who depleted their strength fighting a conventional war. Full-scale war between the opposing forces broke out in June 1946. Despite U.S. support to the Kuomintang, Communist forces were ultimately victorious and established the People's Republic of China (PRC) on the mainland. The KMT forces retreated to the island of Taiwan in 1949. Hostilities had largely ceased in 1950.\n\nWith the Communist victory in the civil war, the Soviet Union gave up its claim to military bases in China that it had been promised by the Western Allies during World War II. The defeat of the US-backed KMT led to a debate in the United States about who in the US government was responsible for this, the debate is commonly labeled \"Who lost China?\"\n\nThe outbreak of the Korean War diverted the attention of the PRC at the same time as it bolstered US support for Chiang Kai-shek, the two main factors that prevented the PRC from invading Taiwan. Intermittent military clashes occurred between the PRC and Taiwan from 1950-1979. Taiwan unilaterally declared the civil war over in 1991, but no formal peace treaty or truce exists and the PRC officially sees Taiwan as a breakaway province that rightfully belongs to it and has expressed its opposition to Taiwanese independence. Even so, tensions between the two states has decreased over time for example with the Chen-Chiang summits (2008-2011).\n\nSino-American relations (between the PRC and the US) continued to be mostly hostile up until US president Nixon visited China in 1972. From this point, the relations between them have improved over time although some tension and rivalry remain even with the end of the Cold War and the PRC's distancing from the Communist ideology.\n\nAt the Yalta Conference, the Allies agreed that an undivided post-war Korea would be placed under four-power multinational trusteeship. After Japan's surrender, this agreement was modified to a joint Soviet-American occupation of Korea. The agreement was that Korea would be divided and occupied by the Soviets from the north and the Americans from the south.\n\nKorea, formerly under Japanese rule, and which had been partially occupied by the Red Army following the Soviet Union's entry into the war against Japan, was divided at the 38th parallel on the orders of the US War Department. A US military government in southern Korea was established in the capital city of Seoul. The American military commander, Lt. Gen. John R. Hodge, enlisted many former Japanese administrative officials to serve in this government. North of the military line, the Soviets administered the disarming and demobilisation of repatriated Korean nationalist guerrillas who had fought on the side of Chinese nationalists against the Japanese in Manchuria during World War II. Simultaneously, the Soviets enabled a build-up of heavy armaments to pro-communist forces in the north. The military line became a political line in 1948, when separate republics emerged on both sides of the 38th parallel, each republic claiming to be the legitimate government of Korea. It culminated in the north invading the south, start of the Korean War two years later.\n\nLabour and civil unrest broke out in the British colony of Malaya in 1946. A state of emergency was declared by the colonial authorities in 1948 with the outbreak of acts of terrorism. The situation deteriorated into a full-scale anti-colonial insurgency, or Anti-British National Liberation War as the insurgents referred to it, led by the Malayan National Liberation Army (MNLA), the military wing of the Malayan Communist Party. The Malayan Emergency would endure for the next 12 years, ending in 1960. In 1967, communist leader Chin Peng reopened hostilities, culminating in a second emergency that lasted until 1989.\n\nEvents during World War II in the colony of French Indochina (consisting of the modern-day states of Vietnam, Laos and Cambodia) set the stage for the First Indochina War which in turn led to the Vietnam War.\n\nDuring World War II, the Vichy French aligned colonial authorities cooperated with the Japanese invaders. The communist-controlled common front Viet Minh (supported by the Allies) was formed among the Vietnamese in the colony in 1941 to fight for the independence of Vietnam, against both the Japanese and prewar French powers. After the Vietnamese Famine of 1945 support for the Viet Minh was bolstered as the front launched a rebellion, sacking rice warehouses and urging the Vietnamese to refuse to pay taxes. Because the French colonial authorities started to hold secret talks with the Free French, the Japanese interned them 9 March 1945. When Japan surrendered in August, this created a power vacuum, and the Viet Minh took power in the August Revolution, declaring the independent Democratic Republic of Vietnam. However, the Allies (including the Soviet Union) all agreed that the area belonged to the French. Nationalist Chinese forces moved in from the north and British from the south (as the French were unable to do so immediately themselves) and then handed power to the French, a process completed by March 1946. Attempts to integrate the Democratic Republic of Vietnam with French rule failed and the Viet Minh launched their rebellion against the French rule starting the First Indochina War that same year (the Viet Minh organized common fronts to fight the French in Laos and Cambodia).\n\nThe war ended in 1954 with French withdrawal and a partition of Vietnam that was intended to be temporary until elections could be held. The Democratic Republic of Vietnam held the north while South Vietnam formed into a separate republic in control of Ngo Dinh Diem who was backed in his refusal to hold elections by the US. The communist party of the south eventually organized the common front NLF to fight to unite south and north under the Democratic Republic of Vietnam and thus began the Vietnam War, which ended with the Democratic Republic of Vietnam conquering the South in 1975.\n\nJapan invaded and occupied Indonesia during the war and replaced much of the Dutch colonial state. Although the top positions were held by Japanese, the internment of all Dutch citizens meant that Indonesians filled many leadership and administrative positions. Following the Japanese surrender in August 1945, nationalist leaders Sukarno and Mohammad Hatta declared Indonesian independence. A four and a half-year struggle followed as the Dutch tried to re-establish their colony, using a significant portion of their Marshall Plan aid to this end. The Dutch were directly helped by UK forces who sought to re-establish the colonial dominions in Asia. The UK also kept 35,000 Japanese Surrendered Personnel under arms to fight the Indonesians.\n\nAlthough Dutch forces re-occupied most of Indonesia's territory, a guerrilla struggle ensued, and the majority of Indonesians, and ultimately international opinion, favoured Indonesian independence. In December 1949, the Netherlands formally recognised Indonesian sovereignty.\n\nBritish covert operations in the Baltic States, which began in 1944 against the Nazis, escalated after the war. In Operation Jungle, the Secret Intelligence Service (known as MI6) recruited and trained Estonians, Latvians, and Lithuanians for the clandestine work in the Baltic states between 1948 and 1955. Leaders of the operation included Alfons Rebane, Stasys Žymantas, and Rūdolfs Silarājs. The agents were transported under the cover of the \"British Baltic Fishery Protection Service\". They launched from British-occupied Germany, using a converted World War II E-boat captained and crewed by former members of the wartime German navy. British intelligence also trained and infiltrated anti-communist agents into Russia from across the Finnish border, with orders to assassinate Soviet officials. In the end, counter-intelligence supplied to the KGB by Kim Philby allowed the KGB to penetrate and ultimately gain control of MI6's entire intelligence network in the Baltic states.\n\nVietnam and the Middle East would later damage the reputation gained by the US during its successes in Europe.\n\nThe KGB believed that the Third World rather than Europe was the arena in which it could win the Cold War. Moscow would in later years fuel an arms buildup in Africa. In later years, African countries used as proxies in the Cold War would often become \"failed states\" of their own.\n\nWhen the divisions of postwar Europe began to emerge, the war crimes programmes and denazification policies of Britain and the United States were relaxed in favour of recruiting German scientists, especially nuclear and long-range rocket scientists. Many of these, prior to their capture, had worked on developing the German V-2 long-range rocket at the Baltic coast German Army Research Center Peenemünde. Western Allied occupation force officers in Germany were ordered to refuse to cooperate with the Soviets in sharing captured wartime secret weapons, the recovery for which, specifically in regards to advanced German aviation technology and personnel, the British had sent the Fedden Mission into Germany to contact its aviation technology centers and key personnel, paralleled by the United States with its own Operation Lusty aviation technology personnel and knowledge recovery program.\n\nIn Operation Paperclip, beginning in 1945, the United States imported 1,600 German scientists and technicians, as part of the intellectual reparations owed to the US and the UK, including about $10 billion (US$ billion in 2017 dollars) in patents and industrial processes. In late 1945, three German rocket-scientist groups arrived in the U.S. for duty at Fort Bliss, Texas, and at White Sands Proving Grounds, New Mexico, as “War Department Special Employees”.\n\nThe wartime activities of some Operation Paperclip scientists would later be investigated. Arthur Rudolph left the United States in 1984, in order to not be prosecuted. Similarly, Georg Rickhey, who came to the United States under Operation Paperclip in 1946, was returned to Germany to stand trial at the Mittelbau-Dora war crimes trial in 1947. Following his acquittal, he returned to the United States in 1948 and eventually became a US citizen.\n\nThe Soviets began Operation Osoaviakhim in 1946. NKVD and Soviet army units effectively deported thousands of military-related technical specialists from the Soviet occupation zone of post-war Germany to the Soviet Union. The Soviets used 92 trains to transport the specialists and their families, an estimated 10,000-15,000 people. Much related equipment was also moved, the aim being to virtually transplant research and production centres, such as the relocated V-2 rocket centre at Mittelwerk Nordhausen, from Germany to the Soviet Union. Among the people moved were Helmut Gröttrup and about two hundred scientists and technicians from Mittelwerk. Personnel were also taken from AEG, BMW's Stassfurt jet propulsion group, IG Farben's Leuna chemical works, Junkers, Schott AG, Siebel, Telefunken, and Carl Zeiss AG.\n\nThe operation was commanded by NKVD deputy Colonel General Serov, outside the control of the local Soviet Military Administration. The major reason for the operation was the Soviet fear of being condemned for noncompliance with Allied Control Council agreements on the liquidation of German military installations. Some Western observers thought Operation Osoaviakhim was a retaliation for the failure of the Socialist Unity Party in elections, though Osoaviakhim was clearly planned before that.\n\nAs a general consequence of the war and in an effort to maintain international peace, the Allies formed the United Nations (UN), which officially came into existence on 24 October 1945. The UN replaced the defunct League of Nations (LN) as an intergovernmental organization. The LN was formally dissolved on 20 April 1946 but had in practice ceased to function in 1939, being unable to stop the outbreak of World War II. The UN inherited some of the bodies of the LN, such as the International Labour Organization.\n\nLeague of Nations mandates, mostly territories that had changed hands in World War I, became United Nations Trust Territories. South-West Africa, an exception, was still governed under terms of the original mandate. As the successor body to the League, the UN still assumed a supervisory role over the territory. The Free City of Danzig, a semi-autonomous city state that was partly overseen by the League, became part of Poland.\n\nThe UN adopted The Universal Declaration of Human Rights in 1948, \"as a common standard of achievement for all peoples and all nations.\" The Soviet Union abstained from voting on adoption of the declaration. The US did not ratify the social and economic rights sections.\n\nThe five major Allied powers were given permanent membership in the United Nations Security Council. The permanent members can veto any United Nations Security Council resolution, the only UN decisions that are binding according to international law. The five powers at the time of founding were: the United States of America, the United Kingdom, France, the Soviet Union and the Republic of China. The Republic of China lost the Chinese Civil War and retreated to the island of Taiwan by 1950 but continued to be a permanent member of the Council even though the \"de facto\" state in control of mainland China was the People's Republic of China (PRC). This was changed in 1971 when the PRC was given the permanent membership previously held by the Republic of China. Russia inherited the permanent membership of the Soviet Union in 1991 after the dissolution of that state.\n\nJapanese holdouts persisted on various islands in the Pacific Theatre until at least 1974. Although all hostilities are now resolved, a peace treaty has never been signed between Japan and Russia due to the Kuril Islands dispute.\n\nBy the end of the war, the European economy had collapsed with some 70% of its industrial infrastructure destroyed. The property damage in the Soviet Union consisted of complete or partial destruction of 1,710 cities and towns, 70,000 villages/hamlets, and 31,850 industrial establishments. The strength of the economic recovery following the war varied throughout the world, though in general, it was quite robust, particularly in the United States.\n\nIn Europe, West Germany, after having continued to decline economically during the first years of the Allied occupation, later experienced a remarkable recovery, and had by the end of the 1950s doubled production from its pre-war levels. Italy came out of the war in poor economic condition, but by the 1950s, the Italian economy was marked by stability and high growth. France rebounded quickly and enjoyed rapid economic growth and modernisation under the Monnet Plan. The UK, by contrast, was in a state of economic ruin after the war and continued to experience relative economic decline for decades to follow.\n\nThe Soviet Union also experienced a rapid increase in production in the immediate post-war era. Japan experienced rapid economic growth, becoming one of the most powerful economies in the world by the 1980s. China, following the conclusion of its civil war, was essentially bankrupt. By 1953, economic restoration seemed fairly successful as production had resumed pre-war levels. This growth rate mostly persisted, though it was interrupted by economic experiments during the disastrous Great Leap Forward.\n\nAt the end of the war, the United States produced roughly half of the world's industrial output. The US, of course, had been spared industrial and civilian devastation. Further, much of its pre-war industry had been converted to wartime usage. As a result, with its industrial and civilian base in much better shape than most of the world, the US embarked on an economic expansion unseen in human history. US Gross Domestic Product increased from $228 billion in 1945 to just under $1.7 trillion in 1975.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "14904578", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14904578", "title": "Albert Anton von Muchar", "text": "Albert Anton von Muchar\n\nAlbert Anton von Muchar was a historian, born in Lienz, Tyrol, 22 November, around 1781; died in Graz, Styria, 6 June 1849. He was descended from the noble and ancient family of the Muchars of Bied and Rangfeld, studied at the lyceum in Graz, entered the Benedictine Order, and made his vows on 16 October 1808, at Admont. Ordained a priest shortly afterwards, he devoted himself entirely to the study of Middle Eastern languages, became librarian and keeper of the archives in 1813, and later on professor of Greek and Middle Eastern languages at the theological school of his monastery. From 1823 to 1825 he was supplementary professor of Biblical science, becoming afterwards professor of aesthetics and classical philology at the University of Graz.\n\nHe found that pure philological studies did not suit his taste, and in this branch we possess from him only an edition of Horace with German translation, which appeared in 1835 at Graz. His researches dealt chiefly with the history of Austria, for which purpose he made extensive visits to the libraries of Austria, Bavaria, and Upper Italy; thus, nearly all his historical works are based upon careful examination of the original sources. In 1829 the Academy of Sciences in Vienna elected him a member in recognition of his important contributions to national history, and he was one of the founders of the Historical Society for Inner Austria.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "55920229", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55920229", "title": "Anna Böeseken", "text": "Anna Böeseken\n\nAnna Böeseken (born \"Anna Jacoba Böeseken\" in Pretoria on October 23, 1905; died on June 28, 1997 in Cape Town) was a South African history academic, journalist and writer who wrote under the pen name AJ. She is best known for her expertise as an authority of the history of the Dutch East India Company that existed between 1602 and 1798.\n\nAnna Böeseken's parents were originally Dutch. She studied in both South Africa and Europe before the second world war. She followed Adolf Hitler around in 1913 listening to his speeches in Germany with a friend who was researching world dictators at the time.\n\nAnna Böeseken is regarded by modern scholars as one of the leading experts on the history and evolution of the Dutch East India Company. The 2013 publication in the journal Historia volume 48, Issue 2, titled \"Historia - Dr. Anna Boëseken (1905-1997) : kenner van die Kaapse VOC-geskiedenis (English: Expert of Cape VOC history) \"examined her contribution in making the history of the VOC in South Africa accessible and interpreting it for both the expert and layman\".\n\nOn June 18, 1964 she founded the Genealogical Society which published a quarterly journal \"Familia\".\n"}
{"id": "2607695", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2607695", "title": "Archaeological ethics", "text": "Archaeological ethics\n\nArchaeological ethics refers to the moral issues raised through the study of the material past. It is a branch of the Philosophy of archaeology.\n\nIn common with other academic disciplines, archaeologists are bound to conduct their investigations to a high standard and observe intellectual property laws, Health and Safety regulations and other legal obligations. Professional bodies in the field require that their members work towards the preservation and management of archaeological resources, treat human remains with dignity and also usually encourage outreach activities. Where these bodies exist, sanctions are in place for those professionals who do not observe these ethical codes. By no means all jurisdictions have such professional bodies however and even where they do exist, membership may not be necessary in order to carry out archaeological investigations. While such considerations are fundamental to a pursuit, they are unfortunately coming rather late to the field. Questions regarding ethics have only arisen since the UNESCO accords in the 1970s began to protect world culture.\n\nA common ethical issue in modern archaeology has been the treatment of human remains found during excavations, especially those that represent the ancestors of aboriginal groups in the New World or the remains of other minority races elsewhere. Where previously sites of great significance to native peoples could be excavated and any burials and artefacts taken to be stored in museums or sold, there is increasing awareness in the West of taking a more respectful approach. The NAGPRA legislation in the United States of America is an example of this. The issue is not limited to ancient remains; nineteenth- and twentieth-century burial sites investigated by archaeologists such as First World War graves and cemeteries disturbed by developments have seen the remains of people with closely connected living relatives being exhumed and taken away.\n\nThe international trade in antiquities, although not formally connected with the modern discipline of archaeology has also raised ethical questions regarding the ownership of archaeological artefacts. The market for imported antiquities has encouraged damage to archaeological sites and often led to appeals for the recall.\n\nExamples of archaeological material removed from its place of origin and controversy over its return include the Elgin Marbles.\n\nA wider question of control and ownership over the past has also been raised through the political manipulation of the archaeological record to promote nationalism and justify military invasion. A famous example is the corps of archaeologists employed by Adolf Hitler to excavate in central Europe in the hope of finding evidence for a region-wide Aryan culture. Many archaeologists in the West today are employees of national governments or are privately employed instruments of government-derived archaeology legislation. In all cases this legislation is a compromise to some degree or another between the interests of the archaeological remains and the interests of economic development. Questions regarding the ethical validity of government heritage policies and whether they sufficiently protect important remains are raised during cases such as High Speed 1 in London where burials at a cemetery at St Pancras railway station were hurriedly dug using a JCB and mistreated in order to keep an important infrastructure project on schedule.\n\nAnother issue is the question of whether unthreatened archaeological remains should be excavated (and therefore destroyed) or preserved intact for future generations to investigate, perhaps using more advanced techniques that could provide more detailed information. Some archaeological guidance such as PPG 16 has established a strong ethical argument for only excavating sites threatened with destruction.\n\nProblem Areas in Archaeological Ethics\n\n"}
{"id": "147625", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=147625", "title": "Archaeological site", "text": "Archaeological site\n\nAn archaeological site is a place (or group of physical sites) in which evidence of past activity is preserved (either prehistoric or historic or contemporary), and which has been, or may be, investigated using the discipline of archaeology and represents a part of the archaeological record. Sites may range from those with few or no remains visible above ground, to buildings and other structures still in use.\n\nBeyond this, the definition and geographical extent of a \"site\" can vary widely, depending on the period studied and the theoretical approach of the archaeologist.\n\nIt is almost invariably difficult to delimit a site. It is sometimes taken to indicate a settlement of some sort although the archaeologist must also define the limits of human activity around the settlement. Any episode of deposition such as a hoard or burial can form a site as well. Development-led archaeology undertaken as cultural resources management has the disadvantage (or the benefit) of having its sites defined by the limits of the intended development. Even in this case however, in describing and interpreting the site, the archaeologist will have to look outside the boundaries of the building site.\n\nAccording to Jess Beck in \"How Do Archaeologists find sites?\" the areas with a large number of artifacts are good targets for future excavation, while areas with small number of artifacts are thought to reflect a lack of past human activity.” Many areas have been discovered by accident. The most common person to have found artifacts are farmers who are plowing their fields or just cleaning them up often find archaeological artifacts. Many people who are out hiking and even pilots find artifacts they usually end up reporting them to archaeologist to do further investigation. When they find sites, they have to first record the area and if they have the money and time for the site they can start digging. \n\nThere are many ways to find sites, one example can be through surveys. Surveys involve walking around analyzing the land looking for artifacts. It can also involve digging, according to the Archaeological Institute of America, “archaeologists actively search areas that were likely to support human populations, or in places where old documents and records indicate people once lived.” This helps archaeologists in the future. In case there was no time, or money during the finding of the site, archaeologists can come back and visit the site for further digging to find out the extent of the site. Archaeologist can also sample randomly within a given area of land as another form of conducting surveys. Surveys are very useful, according to Jess Beck, “it can tell you where people were living at different points in the past.” Geophysics is a branch of survey becoming more and more popular in archaeology, because it uses different types of instruments to investigate features below the ground surface. It is not as reliable, because although they can see what is under the surface of the ground it does not produce the best picture. Archaeologists have to still dig up the area in order to uncover the truth. There are also two most common types of geophysical survey, which is, magnetometer and ground penetrating radar. Magnetometry is the technique of measuring and mapping patterns of magnetism in the soil. It uses an instrument called a magnetometer which is required to measure and map traces of soil magnetism. The ground penetrating radar is a method that uses radar pulses to image the subsurface. It uses electro magnetic radiation in the microwave band of the radio spectrum, and detects the reflected signals from subsurface structures. \n\nThere are many other tools that can be used to find artifacts, but along with finding artifacts, archaeologist have to make maps. They do so by taking data from surveys, or archival research and plugging it into a Geographical Information Systems (GIS) and that will contain both locational information and a combination of various information. This tool is very helpful to archaeologists who want to explore in a different area and want to see if anyone else has done research. They can use this tool to see what has already been discovered. With this information available, archaeologists can expand their research and add more to what has already been found.\n\nTraditionally, sites are distinguished by the presence of both artifacts and features. Common features include the remains of hearths and houses. Ecofacts, biological materials (such as bones, scales, and even feces) that are the result of human activity but are not deliberately modified, are also common at many archaeological sites. In the cases of the Palaeolithic and Mesolithic eras, a mere scatter of flint flakes will also constitute a site worthy of study. Different archaeologists may see an ancient town, and its nearby cemetery as being two different sites, or as being part of the same wider site. The precepts of landscape archaeology attempt to see each discrete unit of human activity in the context of the wider environment, further distorting the concept of the site as a demarcated area. Furthermore, geoarchaeologists or environmental archaeologists would also consider a sequence of natural geological or organic deposition, in the absence of human activity, to constitute a site worthy of study.\n\nArchaeological sites usually form through human-related processes but can be subject to natural, post-depositional factors. Cultural remnants which have been buried by sediments are in many environments more likely to be preserved than exposed cultural remnants. Natural actions resulting in sediment being deposited include alluvial (water-related) or aeolian (wind-related) natural processes. In jungles and other areas of lush plant growth, decomposed vegetative sediment can result in layers of soil deposited over remains. Colluviation, the burial of a site by sediments moved by gravity (called hillwash) can also happen at sites on slopes. Human activities (both deliberate and incidental) also often bury sites. It is common in many cultures for newer structures to be built atop the remains of older ones. Urban archaeology has developed especially to deal with these sorts of site.\n\nMany sites are the subject of ongoing excavation or investigation. Note the difference between archaeological sites and archaeological discoveries.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4443", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4443", "title": "Barcelona", "text": "Barcelona\n\nBarcelona ( , , ) is a city in Spain. It is the capital and largest city of Catalonia, as well as the second most populous municipality of Spain. With a population of 1.6 million within city limits, its urban area extends to numerous neighbouring municipalities within the Province of Barcelona and is home to around 4.8 million people, making it the sixth most populous urban area in the European Union after Paris, London, Madrid, the Ruhr area and Milan. It is one of the largest metropolises on the Mediterranean Sea, located on the coast between the mouths of the rivers Llobregat and Besòs, and bounded to the west by the Serra de Collserola mountain range, the tallest peak of which is high.\n\nFounded as a Roman city, in the Middle Ages Barcelona became the capital of the County of Barcelona. After merging with the Kingdom of Aragon, Barcelona continued to be an important city in the Crown of Aragon as an economic and administrative centre of this Crown and the capital of the Principality of Catalonia. Barcelona has a rich cultural heritage and is today an important cultural centre and a major tourist destination. Particularly renowned are the architectural works of Antoni Gaudí and Lluís Domènech i Montaner, which have been designated UNESCO World Heritage Sites. The headquarters of the Union for the Mediterranean are located in Barcelona. The city is known for hosting the 1992 Summer Olympics as well as world-class conferences and expositions and also many international sport tournaments.\n\nBarcelona is one of the world's leading tourist, economic, trade fair and cultural centres, and its influence in commerce, education, entertainment, media, fashion, science, and the arts all contribute to its status as one of the world's major global cities. It is a major cultural and economic centre in southwestern Europe, 24th in the world (before Zürich, after Frankfurt) and a financial centre. In 2008 it was the fourth most economically powerful city by GDP in the European Union and 35th in the world with GDP amounting to €177 billion. In 2012 Barcelona had a GDP of $170 billion; and it was leading Spain in employment rate in that moment.\n\nIn 2009 the city was ranked Europe's third and one of the world's most successful as a city brand. In the same year the city was ranked Europe's fourth best city for business and fastest improving European city, with growth improved by 17% per year, and the city has been experiencing strong and renewed growth for the past three years. Since 2011 Barcelona has been a leading smart city in Europe. Barcelona is a transport hub, with the Port of Barcelona being one of Europe's principal seaports and busiest European passenger port, an international airport, Barcelona–El Prat Airport, which handles over 40 million passengers per year, an extensive motorway network, and a high-speed rail line with a link to France and the rest of Europe.\n\nThe name \"Barcelona\" comes from the ancient Iberian \"Barkeno\", attested in an ancient coin inscription found on the right side of the coin in Iberian script as , in ancient Greek sources as , \"Barkinṓn\"; and in Latin as \"Barcino\", \"Barcilonum\" and \"Barcenona\".\n\nSome older sources suggest that the city may have been named after the Carthaginian general Hamilcar Barca, who was supposed to have founded the city in the 3rd century BC, but there is no evidence that Barcelona was ever a Carthaginian settlement, or that its name in antiquity, \"Barcino\", had any connection with the Barcid family of Hamilcar.\nDuring the Middle Ages, the city was variously known as \"Barchinona\", \"Barçalona\", \"Barchelonaa\", and \"Barchenona\".\n\nInternationally, Barcelona's name is wrongly abbreviated to 'Barça'. However, this name refers only to FC Barcelona, the football club. The common abbreviated form used by locals is \"Barna\".\n\nAnother common abbreviation is 'BCN', which is also the IATA airport code of the Barcelona-El Prat Airport.\n\nThe city is also referred to as the \"Ciutat Comtal\" in Catalan, and \"Ciudad Condal\" in Spanish, owing to its past as the seat of the Count of Barcelona.\n\nThe origin of the earliest settlement at the site of present-day Barcelona is unclear. The ruins of an early settlement have been \nfound, including different tombs and dwellings dating to earlier than 5000 BC. The founding of Barcelona is the subject of two different legends. The first attributes the founding of the city to the mythological Hercules. The second legend attributes the foundation of the city directly to the historical Carthaginian general, Hamilcar Barca, father of Hannibal, who supposedly named the city \"Barcino\" after his family in the 3rd century BC, but there is no historical or linguistic evidence that this is true.\n\nIn about 15 BC, the Romans redrew the town as a \"castrum\" (Roman military camp) centred on the \"Mons Taber\", a little hill near the contemporary city hall (Plaça de Sant Jaume). Under the Romans, it was a colony with the surname of \"Faventia\", or, in full, \"Colonia Faventia Julia Augusta Pia Barcino\" or \"Colonia Julia Augusta Faventia Paterna Barcino\". Pomponius Mela mentions it among the small towns of the district, probably as it was eclipsed by its neighbour \"Tarraco\" (modern Tarragona), but it may be gathered from later writers that it gradually grew in wealth and consequence, favoured as it was with a beautiful situation and an excellent harbour. It enjoyed immunity from imperial burdens. The city minted its own coins; some from the era of Galba survive.\nImportant Roman vestiges are displayed in Plaça del Rei underground, as a part of the Barcelona City History Museum (MUHBA); the typically Roman grid plan is still visible today in the layout of the historical centre, the \"Barri Gòtic\" (Gothic Quarter). Some remaining fragments of the Roman walls have been incorporated into the cathedral. The cathedral, also known as the Basilica \"La Seu\", is said to have been founded in 343.\n\nThe city was conquered by the Visigoths in the early 5th century, becoming for a few years the capital of all Hispania. After being conquered by the Arabs in the early 8th century, it was conquered in 801 by Charlemagne's son Louis, who made Barcelona the seat of the Carolingian \"Hispanic March\" (\"Marca Hispanica\"), a buffer zone ruled by the Count of Barcelona.\n\nThe Counts of Barcelona became increasingly independent and expanded their territory to include all of Catalonia, although on 6 July 985, Barcelona was sacked by the army of Almanzor. The sack was so traumatic that most of Barcelona's population was either killed or enslaved. In 1137, Aragon and the County of Barcelona merged in dynastic union by the marriage of Ramon Berenguer IV and Petronilla of Aragon, their titles finally borne by only one person when their son Alfonso II of Aragon ascended to the throne in 1162. His territories were later to be known as the Crown of Aragon, which conquered many overseas possessions and ruled the western Mediterranean Sea with outlying territories in Naples and Sicily and as far as Athens in the 13th century. The forging of a dynastic link between the Crowns of Aragon and Castile marked the beginning of Barcelona's decline. The Bank of Barcelona (\"\"), probably the oldest public bank in Europe, was established by the city magistrates in 1401. It originated from necessities of the state, as did the Bank of Venice (1402) and the Bank of Genoa (1407).\n\nThe marriage of Ferdinand II of Aragon and Isabella I of Castile in 1469 united the two royal lines. Madrid became the centre of political power whilst the colonisation of the Americas reduced the financial importance (at least in relative terms) of Mediterranean trade. Barcelona was a centre of Catalan separatism, including the Catalan Revolt (1640–52) against Philip IV of Spain. The great plague of 1650–1654 halved the city's population.\nIn the 18th century, a fortress was built at Montjuïc that overlooked the harbour. In 1794, this fortress was used by the French astronomer Pierre François André Méchain for observations relating to a survey stretching to Dunkirk that provided the official basis of the measurement of a metre. The definitive metre bar, manufactured from platinum, was presented to the French legislative assembly on 22 June 1799. Much of Barcelona was negatively affected by the Napoleonic wars, but the start of industrialisation saw the fortunes of the province improve. Urban planner Ildefons Cerdà designed the large Eixample district in the 1850s when the medieval city walls around Barcelona's old town were torn down.\n\nDuring the Spanish Civil War, the city, and Catalonia in general, were resolutely Republican. Many enterprises and public services were \"collectivized\" by the CNT and UGT unions. As the power of the Republican government and the Generalitat diminished, much of the city was under the effective control of anarchist groups. The anarchists lost control of the city to their own allies, the Communists and official government troops, after the street fighting of the Barcelona May Days. The fall of the city on 26 January 1939, caused a mass exodus of civilians who fled to the French border. The resistance of Barcelona to Franco's coup d'état was to have lasting effects after the defeat of the Republican government. The autonomous institutions of Catalonia were abolished, and the use of the Catalan language in public life was suppressed. Barcelona remained the second largest city in Spain, at the heart of a region which was relatively industrialised and prosperous, despite the devastation of the civil war. The result was a large-scale immigration from poorer regions of Spain (particularly Andalusia, Murcia and Galicia), which in turn led to rapid urbanisation.\n\nIn 1992, Barcelona hosted the Summer Olympics. The after-effects of this are credited with driving major changes in what had, up until then, been a largely industrial city. As part of the preparation for the games, industrial buildings along the sea-front were demolished and two miles of beach were created. New construction increased the road capacity of the city by 17%, the sewage handling capacity by 27% and the amount of new green areas and beaches by 78%. Between 1990 and 2004, the number of hotel rooms in the city doubled. Perhaps more importantly, the outside perception of the city was changed making, by 2012, Barcelona the 12th most popular city destination in the world and the 5th amongst European cities.\n\nThe death of Franco in 1975 brought on a period of democratisation throughout Spain. Pressure for change was particularly strong in Barcelona, which considered (with some\njustification) that it had been punished during nearly forty years of Francoism for its support of the Republican government. Massive, but peaceful, demonstrations on 11 September 1977 assembled over a million people in the streets of Barcelona to call for the restoration of Catalan autonomy. It was granted less than a month later.\n\nThe development of Barcelona was promoted by two events in 1986: Spanish accession to the European Community, and particularly Barcelona's designation as host city of the 1992 Summer Olympics. The process of\nurban regeneration has been rapid, and accompanied by a greatly increased international reputation of the city as a tourist destination. The increased cost of housing has led to a slight decline (−16.6%) in the population over the last two decades of the 20th century as many families move out into the suburbs. This decline has been reversed since 2001, as a new wave of immigration (particularly from Latin America and from Morocco) has gathered pace.\n\nOn 17 August 2017, a van was driven into pedestrians on La Rambla in the city, killing 14 and injuring at least 100, one of whom later died. Other attacks took place elsewhere in Catalonia. The Prime Minister of Spain, Mariano Rajoy, called the attack in Barcelona a jihadist attack. Amaq News Agency attributed indirect responsibility for the attack to the Islamic State of Iraq and the Levant (ISIL).\n\nBarcelona is located on the northeast coast of the Iberian Peninsula, facing the Mediterranean Sea, on a plain approximately wide limited by the mountain range of Collserola, the Llobregat river to the southwest and the Besòs river to the north. This plain covers an area of , of which are occupied by the city itself. It is south of the Pyrenees and the Catalan border with France.\n\nTibidabo, high, offers striking views over the city and is topped by the Torre de Collserola, a telecommunications tower that is visible from most of the city. Barcelona is peppered with small hills, most of them urbanised, that gave their name to the neighbourhoods built upon them, such as Carmel (), () and Rovira (). The escarpment of Montjuïc (), situated to the southeast, overlooks the harbour and is topped by Montjuïc Castle, a fortress built in the 17–18th centuries to control the city as a replacement for the Ciutadella. Today, the fortress is a museum and Montjuïc is home to several sporting and cultural venues, as well as Barcelona's biggest park and gardens.\n\nThe city borders on the municipalities of Santa Coloma de Gramenet and Sant Adrià de Besòs to the north; the Mediterranean Sea to the east; El Prat de Llobregat and L'Hospitalet de Llobregat to the south; and Sant Feliu de Llobregat, Sant Just Desvern, Esplugues de Llobregat, Sant Cugat del Vallès, and Montcada i Reixac to the west. The municipality includes two small sparsely-inhabited exclaves to the north-west.\n\nAccording to the Köppen climate classification, Barcelona has a maritime Mediterranean climate (\"Csa\"), with mild winters and warm to hot summers, while the rainiest seasons are autumn and spring. The rainfall pattern is characterized by a short (3 months) dry season in summer, as well as less winter rainfall than in a typical Mediterranean climate. This subtype, labelled as \"Portuguese\" by the French geographer George Viers after the climate classification of Emmanuel de Martonne and found in the NW Mediterranean area (e.g. Marseille), can be seen as transitional to the humid subtropical climate (\"Cfa\") found in inland areas such as the Po Valley (e.g. Milan), whose rainfall is greater in summer, a feature of continental climates.\n\nIts average annual temperature is during the day and at night. The average annual temperature of the sea is about . In the coldest month, January, the temperature typically ranges from during the day, at night and the average sea temperature is . In the warmest month, August, the typical temperature ranges from during the day, about at night and the average sea temperature is . Generally, the summer or \"holiday\" season lasts about six months, from May to October. Two months – April and November – are transitional; sometimes the temperature exceeds , with an average temperature of during the day and at night. December, January and February are the coldest months, with average temperatures around during the day and at night. Large fluctuations in temperature are rare, particularly in the summer months. Because of the proximity to the warm sea, frosts are very rare in the city of Barcelona. In fact, only 1 day in the last 30 years was recorded with a temperature under the freezing mark, . Snow is very infrequent.\n\nBarcelona averages 78 rainy days per year (≥ 1 mm), and annual average relative humidity is 72%, ranging from 69% in July to 75% in October. Rainfall totals are highest in late summer and autumn (September–November) and lowest in early and mid-summer (June–August), with a secondary winter minimum (February–March). Sunshine duration is 2,524 hours per year, from 138 (average 4.5 hours of sunshine a day) in December to 310 (average 10 hours of sunshine a day) in July.\n\nAccording to Barcelona's City Council, Barcelona's population was 1,608,746 people, on a land area of . It is the main component of an administrative area of Greater Barcelona, with a population of 3,218,071 in an area of (density 5,060 hab/km²). The population of the urban area was 4,840,000. It is the central nucleus of the Barcelona metropolitan area, which relies on a population of 5,474,482.\n\nSpanish is the most spoken language in Barcelona (according to the linguistic census held by the Government of Catalonia in 2013) and it is understood almost universally. After Spanish, the Catalan language is the second most spoken one in the city, and it is understood by 95% of the population, while 72.3% can speak it, 79% can read it, and 53% can write it, thanks to the language immersion educational system.\n\nIn 1900, Barcelona had a population of 533,000 people, which grew steadily but slowly until 1950, when it started absorbing a high number of people from other less-industrialized parts of Spain. Barcelona's population peaked in 1979 with 1,906,998 people, and fell throughout the 1980s and 1990s as more people sought a higher quality of life in outlying cities in the Barcelona Metropolitan Area. After bottoming out in 2000 with 1,496,266 people, the city's population began to rise again as younger people started to return, causing a great increase in housing prices.\n\n\"Note: This text is entirely based on the municipal statistical database provided by the city council.\"\n\nBarcelona is one of the most densely populated cities in Europe. For the year 2008 the city council calculated the population to 1,621,090 living in the 102.2 km sized municipality, giving the city an average population density of 15,926 inhabitants per square kilometre with Eixample being the most populated district.\n\nIn the case of Barcelona though, the land distribution is extremely uneven. Half of the municipality or 50.2 km, all of it located on the municipal edge is made up of the ten least densely populated neighbourhoods containing less than 10% of the city's population, the uninhabited Zona Franca industrial area and Montjuïc forest park. Leaving the remaining 90% or slightly below 1.5 million inhabitants living on the remaining at an average density close to 28,500 inhabitants per square kilometre.\n\nOf the 73 neighbourhoods in the city, 45 had a population density above 20,000 inhabitants per square kilometre with a combined population of 1,313,424 inhabitants living on 38.6 km at an average density of 33,987 inhabitants per square km. The 30 most densely populated neighbourhoods accounted for 57.5% of the city population occupying only 22,7% of the municipality, or in other words, 936,406 people living at an average density of 40,322 inhabitants per square kilometre. The city's highest density is found at and around the neighbourhood of la Sagrada Família where four of the city's most densely populated neighbourhoods are located side by side, all with a population density above 50,000 inhabitants per square kilometre.\n\nIn 2016 about 59% of the inhabitants of the city were born in Catalonia and 18.5% coming from the rest of the country. In addition to that, 22.5% of the population was born outside of Spain, a proportion which has more than doubled since 2001 and more than quintupled since 1996 when it was 8.6% respectively 3.9%.\n\nThe most important region of origin of migrants is Europe, with many coming from Italy (26,676) or France (13,506). Moreover, many migrants come from Latin American nations as Bolivia, Ecuador or Colombia. Since the 1990s, and similar to other migrants, many Latin Americans have settled in northern parts of the city.\n\nThere exists a relatively large Pakistani community in Barcelona with up to twenty thousand nationals. The community consists of significantly more men than women. Many of the Pakistanis are living in Ciutat Vella. First Pakistani migrants came in the 1970s, with increasing numbers in the 1990s.\n\nOther significant migrant groups come from Asia as from China and the Philippines. There is a Japanese community clustered in Bonanova, Les Tres Torres, Pedralbes, and other northern neighbourhoods, and a Japanese international school serves that community.\n\nMost of the inhabitants state they are Roman Catholic (208 churches). In a 2011 survey conducted by InfoCatólica, 49.5% of Barcelona residents of all ages identified themselves as Catholic. This was the first time that more than half of respondents did not identify themselves as Catholic. The numbers reflect a broader trend in Spain whereby the numbers of self-identified Catholics have declined.\n\nThe province has the largest Muslim community in Spain, 322,698 people in Barcelona province are of Muslim religion. A considerable number of Muslims live in Barcelona due to immigration (169 locations, mostly professed by Moroccans in Spain). In 2014, 322,698 out of 5.5 million people in the province of Barcelona identified themselves as Muslim, which makes 5.6% of total population.\n\nThe city also has the largest Jewish community in Spain, with an estimated 3,500 Jews living in the city. There are also a number of other groups, including Evangelical (71 locations, mostly professed by Roma), Jehovah's Witnesses (21 Kingdom Halls), Buddhists (13 locations), and Eastern Orthodox.\n\nThe Barcelona metropolitan area comprises over 66% of the people of Catalonia, one of the richer regions in Europe and the fourth richest region per capita in Spain, with a GDP per capita amounting to €28,400 (16% more than the EU average). The greater Barcelona metropolitan area had a GDP amounting to $177 billion (equivalent to $34,821 in per capita terms, 44% more than the EU average), making it the 4th most economically powerful city by gross GDP in the European Union, and 35th in the world in 2009. Barcelona city had a very high GDP of €80,894 per head in 2004, according to Eurostat. Furthermore, Barcelona was Europe's fourth best business city and fastest improving European city, with growth improved by 17% per year .\n\nBarcelona was the 24th most \"livable city\" in the world in 2015 according to lifestyle magazine \"Monocle.\" Similarly, according to Innovation Analysts 2thinknow, Barcelona occupies 13th place in the world on \"Innovation Cities™ Global Index\".\n\nBarcelona has a long-standing mercantile tradition. Less well known is that the city industrialised early, taking off in 1833, when Catalonia's already sophisticated textile industry began to use steam power. It became the first and most important industrial city in the Mediterranean basin. Since then, manufacturing has played a large role in its history.\n\nBorsa de Barcelona (Barcelona Stock Exchange) is the main stock exchange in the northeastern part of the Iberian Peninsula.\n\nBarcelona was recognised as the Southern European City of the Future for 2014/15, based on its economic potential, by \"FDi Magazine\" in their bi-annual rankings.\n\nDrawing upon its tradition of creative art and craftsmanship, Barcelona is known for its award-winning industrial design. It also has several congress halls, notably Fira de Barcelona – the second largest trade fair and exhibition centre in Europe, that host a quickly growing number of national and international events each year (at present above 50). The total exhibition floor space of Fira de Barcelona venues is , not counting Gran Via centre on the Plaza de Europa. However, the Eurozone crisis and deep cuts in business travel affected the Council's positioning of the city as a convention centre.\n\nAn important business centre, the World Trade Center Barcelona, is located in Barcelona's Port Vell harbour.\n\nThe city is known for hosting well as world-class conferences and expositions, including the 1888 \"Exposición Universal de Barcelona\", the 1929 Barcelona International Exposition (Expo 1929), the 2004 Universal Forum of Cultures and the 2004 World Urban Forum.\n\nBarcelona was the 20th-most-visited city in the world by international visitors and the fifth most visited city in Europe after London, Paris, Istanbul and Rome, with 5.5 million international visitors in 2011. By 2015, both Prague and Milan had more international visitors. With its Rambles, Barcelona is ranked the most popular city to visit in Spain.\n\nBarcelona as internationally renowned a tourist destination, with numerous recreational areas, one of the best beaches in the world, mild and warm climate, historical monuments, including eight UNESCO World Heritage Sites, 519 hotels including 35 five star hotels, and developed tourist infrastructure.\n\nDue to its large influx of tourists each year, Barcelona, like many other tourism capitals, has to deal with pickpockets, with wallets and passports being commonly stolen items. For this reason, most travel guides recommend that visitors take precautions in order to ensure their possessions' safety, especially inside the metro premises. Despite its moderate pickpocket rate, Barcelona is considered one of the safest cities in terms of health security and personal safety, mainly because of a sophisticated policing strategy that has dropped crime by 32% in just over three years and has led it to be considered the 15th safest city in the world by Business Insider.\n\nWhile tourism produces economic benefits, the city is \"overrun\" ... by \"hordes of tourists\" according to one report. In early 2017, over 150,000 protesters warned that tourism is destabilizing the city. Slogans included \"Tourists go home\", \"Barcelona is not for sale\" and \"We will not be driven out\". By then, number of visitors had increased from 1.7 million in 1990 to 32 million in a city with a population of 1.62 million, increasing the cost of rental housing for residents and overcrowding the public places. While tourists spent an estimated €30 billion in 2017, they are viewed by some as a threat to Barcelona's identity.\n\nA May 2017 article in England's The Telegraph newspaper included Barcelona among the \"Eight Places That Hate Tourists the Most\" and included a comment from Mayor Ada Colau, \"We don’t want the city to become a cheap souvenir shop [like Venice]\". To moderate the problem, the city has stopped issuing licenses for new hotels and holiday apartments; it also fined AirBnb with a €30,000. The mayor has suggested an additional tourist tax and setting a limit on the number of visitors. One industry insider, Justin Francis, founder of the Responsible Travel agency, stated that steps must be taken to limit the number of visitors that are causing an \"overtourism crisis\" in several major European cities. \"Ultimately, residents must be prioritised over tourists for housing, infrastructure and access to services because they have a long-term stake in the city’s success.\", he said. \"Managing tourism more responsibly can help\", Francis later told a journalist, \"but some destinations may just have too many tourists, and Barcelona may be a case of that\".\n\nIndustry generates 21% of the total gross domestic product (GDP) of the region, with the energy, chemical and metallurgy industries accounting for 47% of industrial production. The Barcelona metropolitan area had 67% of the total number of industrial establishments in Catalonia as of 1997.\n\nBarcelona has long been an important European automobile manufacturing centre. Formerly there were automobile factories of AFA, Abadal, Actividades Industriales, Alvarez, America, Artés de Arcos, Balandrás, Baradat-Esteve, Biscúter, J. Castro, Clúa, David, Delfín, Díaz y Grilló, Ebro trucks, , Elizalde, Automóviles España, Eucort, Fenix, Fábrica Hispano, Auto Academia Garriga, Fábrica Española de Automóviles Hebe, Hispano-Suiza, Huracán Motors, Talleres Hereter, Junior SL, Kapi, La Cuadra, M.A., Automóviles Matas, Motores y Motos, Nacional Custals, National Pescara, Nacional RG, Nacional Rubi, Nacional Sitjes, Automóviles Nike, Orix, Otro Ford, Partia, Pegaso, PTV, Ricart, Ricart-España, Industrias Salvador, Siata Española, Stevenson, Romagosa y Compañía, Garaje Storm, Talleres Hereter, Trimak, Automóviles Victoria, Manufacturas Mecánicas Aleu.\n\nToday, the headquarters and a large factory of SEAT (the largest Spanish automobile manufacturer) are in one of its suburbs. There is also a Nissan factory in the logistics and industrial area of the city. The factory of Derbi, a large manufacturer of motorcycles, scooters and mopeds, also lies near the city.\n\nAs in other modern cities, the manufacturing sector has long since been overtaken by the services sector, though it remains very important. The region's leading industries are textiles, chemical, pharmaceutical, motor, electronic, printing, logistics, publishing, in telecommunications industry and culture the notable Mobile World Congress, and information technology services.\n\nThe traditional importance of textiles is reflected in Barcelona's drive to become a major fashion centre. There have been many attempts to launch Barcelona as a fashion capital, notably \"Gaudi Home\".\n\nBeginning in the summer of 2000, the city hosted the prestigious Bread & Butter urban fashion fair until 2009, when its organisers announced that it would be returning to Berlin. This was a hard blow for the city as the fair brought €100 m to the city in just three days.\n\nSince 2009, \"The Brandery\", an urban fashion show, has been held in Barcelona twice a year until 2012. According to the Global Language Monitor’s annual ranking of the world's top fifty fashion capitals Barcelona was named as the seventh most important fashion capital of the world right after Milano and before Berlin in 2015.\n\nAs the capital of the autonomous community of Catalonia, Barcelona is the seat of the Catalan government, known as the \"Generalitat de Catalunya\"; of particular note are the executive branch, the parliament, and the High Court of Justice of Catalonia. The city is also the capital of the Province of Barcelona and the Barcelonès comarca (district).\n\nBarcelona is governed by a city council formed by 41 city councillors, elected for a four-year term by universal suffrage. As one of the two biggest cities in Spain, Barcelona is subject to a special law articulated through the \"Carta Municipal\" (Municipal Law). A first version of this law was passed in 1960 and amended later, but the current version was approved in March 2006.<ref name=\"ley 1/2006\"></ref> According to this law, Barcelona's city council is organised in two levels: a political one, with elected city councillors, and one executive, which administrates the programs and executes the decisions taken on the political level. This law also gives the local government a special relationship with the central government and it also gives the mayor wider prerogatives by the means of municipal executive commissions. It expands the powers of the city council in areas like telecommunications, city traffic, road safety and public safety. It also gives a special economic regime to the city's treasury and it gives the council a veto in matters that will be decided by the central government, but that will need a favourable report from the council.\n\nThe \"Comissió de Govern\" (Government Commission) is the executive branch, formed by 24 councillors, led by the Mayor, with 5 lieutenant-mayors and 17 city councillors, each in charge of an area of government, and 5 non-elected councillors. The plenary, formed by the 41 city councillors, has advisory, planning, regulatory, and fiscal executive functions. The six \"Commissions del Consell Municipal\" (City council commissions) have executive and controlling functions in the field of their jurisdiction. They are composed by a number of councillors proportional to the number of councillors each political party has in the plenary. The city council has jurisdiction in the fields of city planning, transportation, municipal taxes, public highways security through the \"Guàrdia Urbana\" (the municipal police), city maintenance, gardens, parks and environment, facilities (like schools, nurseries, sports centres, libraries, and so on), culture, sports, youth and social welfare. Some of these competencies are not exclusive, but shared with the Generalitat de Catalunya or the central Spanish government. In some fields with shared responsibility (such as public health, education or social services), there is a shared Agency or Consortium between the city and the Generalitat to plan and manage services.\n\nThe executive branch is led by a Chief Municipal Executive Officer which answers to the Mayor. It is made up of departments which are legally part of the city council and by separate legal entities of two types: autonomous public departments and public enterprises.\n\nThe seat of the city council is on the Plaça de Sant Jaume, opposite the seat of Generalitat de Catalunya. Since the coming of the Spanish democracy, Barcelona had been governed by the PSC, first with an absolute majority and later in coalition with ERC and ICV. After the May 2007 election, the ERC did not renew the coalition agreement and the PSC governed in a minority coalition with ICV as the junior partner.\n\nAfter 32 years, on 22 May 2011, CiU gained a plurality of seats at the municipal election, gaining 15 seats to the PSC's 11. The PP hold 8 seats, ICV 5 and ERC 2.\n\nSince 1987, the city has been divided into 10 administrative districts (\"districtes\" in Catalan, \"distritos\" in Spanish):\n\nThe districts are based mostly on historical divisions, and several are former towns annexed by the city of Barcelona in the 18th and 19th centuries that still maintain their own distinct character. Each district has its own council led by a city councillor. The composition of each district council depends on the number of votes each political party had in that district, so a district can be led by a councillor from a different party than the executive council.\n\nBarcelona has a well-developed higher education system of public universities. Most prominent among these is the University of Barcelona (established in 1450), a world-renowned research and teaching institution with campuses around the city. Barcelona is also home to the Polytechnic University of Catalonia, and the newer Pompeu Fabra University, and, in the private sector the EADA Business School founded in 1957, became the first Barcelona institution to run manager training programmes for the business community. IESE Business School, as well as the largest private educational institution, the Ramon Llull University, which encompasses internationally prestigious schools and institutes such as the ESADE Business School. The Autonomous University of Barcelona, another public university, is located in Bellaterra, a town in the Metropolitan Area. Toulouse Business School and the Open University of Catalonia (a private Internet-centred open university) are also based in Barcelona.\nThe city has a network of public schools, from nurseries to high schools, under the responsibility of a consortium led by city council (though the curriculum is the responsibility of the Generalitat de Catalunya). There are also many private schools, some of them Roman Catholic. Most such schools receive a public subsidy on a per-student basis, are subject to inspection by the public authorities, and are required to follow the same curricular guidelines as public schools, though they charge tuition. Known as \"escoles concertades\", they are distinct from schools whose funding is entirely private (\"escoles privades\").\n\nThe language of instruction at public schools and \"escoles concertades\" is Catalan, as stipulated by the 2009 Catalan Education Act. Spanish may be used as a language of instruction by teachers of Spanish literature or language, and foreign languages by teachers of those languages. An experimental partial immersion programme adopted by some schools allows for the teaching of a foreign language (English, generally) across the curriculum, though this is limited to a maximum of 30% of the school day. No public school or \"escola concertada\" in Barcelona may offer 50% or full immersion programmes in a foreign language, nor does any public school or \"escola concertada\" offer International Baccalaureate programmes.\n\nBarcelona's cultural roots go back 2000 years. Since the arrival of democracy, the Catalan language (very much repressed during the dictatorship of Franco) has been promoted, both by recovering works from the past and by stimulating the creation of new works. Barcelona is designated as a world-class city by the Globalization and World Cities Study Group and Network. The has also been part of the UNESCO Creative Cities Network as a City of Literature since 2015.\n\nBarcelona has many venues for live music and theatre, including the world-renowned Gran Teatre del Liceu opera house, the Teatre Nacional de Catalunya, the Teatre Lliure and the Palau de la Música Catalana concert hall. Barcelona also is home to the Barcelona Symphony and Catalonia National Orchestra (Orquestra Simfònica de Barcelona i Nacional de Catalunya, usually known as OBC), the largest symphonic orchestra in Catalonia. In 1999, the OBC inaugurated its new venue in the brand-new Auditorium (L'Auditori). It performs around 75 concerts per season and its current director is Eiji Oue. It is home to the Barcelona Guitar Orchestra, directed by Sergi Vicente.\nThe major thoroughfare of La Rambla is home to mime artists and street performers.\nYearly, two major pop music festivals take place in the city, the Sónar Festival and the Primavera Sound Festival. The city also has a thriving alternative music scene, with groups such as The Pinker Tones receiving international attention.\n\n\"El Periódico de Catalunya\", \"La Vanguardia\" and \"Ara\" are Barcelona's three major daily newspapers (the first two with Catalan and Spanish editions, \"Ara\" only in Catalan) while \"Sport\" and \"El Mundo Deportivo\" (both in Spanish) are the city's two major sports daily newspapers, published by the same companies. The city is also served by a number of smaller publications such as \"Ara\" and \"El Punt Avui\" (in Catalan), by nationwide newspapers with special Barcelona editions like \"El Pais\" (in Spanish, with an online version in Catalan) and \"El Mundo\" (in Spanish), and by several free newspapers like \"20 minutos\" and \"Què\" (all bilingual).\n\nBarcelona's oldest and main online newspaper \"VilaWeb\" is also the oldest one in Europe (with Catalan and English editions).\n\nSeveral major FM stations include Catalunya Ràdio, RAC 1, RAC 105 and Cadena SER. Barcelona also has a local TV stations, BTV, owned by city council. The headquarters of Televisió de Catalunya, Catalonia's public network, are located in Sant Joan Despí, in Barcelona's metropolitan area.\n\nBarcelona has a long sporting tradition and hosted the highly successful 1992 Summer Olympics as well as several matches during the 1982 FIFA World Cup (at the two stadiums). It has hosted about 30 sports events of international significance.\n\nFC Barcelona is a sports club best known worldwide for its football team, one of the largest and the second richest in the world. It has 72 national trophies (while finishing 46 times as runners-up) and 17 continental prizes (with being runners-up 11 times), including five UEFA Champions League trophies out of eight finals and three FIFA Club World Cup wins out of four finals. It is the only male football team in the world to accomplish a single season sextuple. FC Barcelona also has professional teams in other sports like FC Barcelona Regal (basketball), FC Barcelona Handbol (handball), FC Barcelona Hoquei (roller hockey), FC Barcelona Ice Hockey (ice hockey), FC Barcelona Futsal (futsal) and FC Barcelona Rugby (rugby union), all at one point winners of the highest national and/or European competitions. The club's museum is the second most visited in Catalonia. The matches against cross-town rivals RCD Espanyol are of particular interest, but there are other Barcelonan football clubs in lower categories, like CE Europa and UE Sant Andreu. FC Barcelona's basketball team has a noted rivalry in the Liga ACB with nearby Joventut Badalona.\nBarcelona has three UEFA elite stadiums: FC Barcelona's Camp Nou, the largest stadium in Europe with a capacity of 99,354; the publicly owned Estadi Olímpic Lluís Companys, with a capacity of 55,926; used for the 1992 Olympics; and Estadi Cornellà-El Prat, with a capacity of 40,500. Furthermore, the city has several smaller stadiums such as Mini Estadi (also owned by FC Barcelona) with a capacity of 15,000, Camp Municipal Narcís Sala with a capacity of 6,563 and Nou Sardenya with a capacity of 7,000. The city has a further three multifunctional venues for sports and concerts: the Palau Sant Jordi with a capacity of 12,000 to 24,000 (depending on use), the Palau Blaugrana with a capacity of 7,500, and the Palau dels Esports de Barcelona with a capacity of 3,500.\n\nBarcelona was the host city for the 2013 World Aquatics Championships, which were held at the Palau San Jordi.\nSeveral road running competitions are organised year-round in Barcelona: the Barcelona Marathon every March with over 10,000 participants in 2010, the Cursa de Bombers in April, the Cursa de El Corte Inglés in May (with about 60,000 participants each year), the Cursa de la Mercè, the Cursa Jean Bouin, the Milla Sagrada Família and the San Silvestre. There's also the Ultratrail Collserola which passes through the Collserola forest. The Open Seat Godó, a 50-year-old ATP World Tour 500 Series tennis tournament, is held annually in the facilities of the Real Club de Tenis Barcelona. Each Christmas, a swimming race across the port is organised. Near Barcelona, in Montmeló, the 107,000 capacity Circuit de Barcelona-Catalunya racetrack hosts the Formula One Spanish Grand Prix, the Catalan motorcycle Grand Prix, the Spanish GT Championship and races in the GP2 Series. Skateboarding and cycling are also very popular in Barcelona; in and around the city there are dozens of kilometers of bicycle paths.\n\nBarcelona is also home to numerous social centres and illegal squats that effectively form a shadow society mainly made up of the unemployed, immigrants, dropouts, anarchists, anti-authoritarians and autonomists. Peter Gelderloos estimates that there around 200 squatted buildings and 40 social centres across the city with thousands of inhabitants, making it one of the largest squatter movements in the world. He notes that they pirate electricity, internet and water allowing them to live on less than one euro a day. He argues that these squats embrace an anarcho-communist and anti-work philosophy, often freely fixing up new houses, cleaning, patching roofs, installing windows, toilets, showers, lights and kitchens. In the wake of austerity, the squats have provided a number of social services to the surrounding residents, including bicycle repair workshops, carpentry workshops, self-defense classes, free libraries, community gardens, free meals, computer labs, language classes, theatre groups, free medical care and legal support services. The squats help elderly residents avoid eviction and organise various protests throughout Barcelona. Notable squats include Can Vies and Can Masdeus. Police have repeatedly tried to shut down the squatters movement with waves of evictions and raids, but the movement is still going strong.\n\nBarcelona is served by Barcelona-El Prat Airport, about from the centre of Barcelona. It is the second-largest airport in Spain, and the largest on the Mediterranean coast, which handled more than 44.1 million passengers in 2016, showing an annual upward trend. It is a main hub for Vueling Airlines and Ryanair, and also a focus for Iberia and Air Europa. The airport mainly serves domestic and European destinations, although some airlines offer destinations in Latin America, Asia and the United States. The airport is connected to the city by highway, metro (Airport T1 and Airport T2 stations), commuter train (Barcelona Airport railway station) and scheduled bus service. A new terminal (T1) has been built, and entered service on 17 June 2009.\n\nSome low-cost airlines, also use Girona-Costa Brava Airport, about to the north, Reus Airport, to the south, or Lleida-Alguaire Airport, about to the west, of the city. Sabadell Airport is a smaller airport in the nearby town of Sabadell, devoted to pilot training, aerotaxi and private flights.\n\nThe Port of Barcelona has a 2000-year-old history and a great contemporary commercial importance. It is Europe's ninth largest container port, with a trade volume of 1.72 million TEU's in 2013. The port is managed by the Port Authority of Barcelona. Its are divided into three zones: Port Vell (the old port), the commercial port and the logistics port (Barcelona Free Port). The port is undergoing an enlargement that will double its size thanks to diverting the mouth of the Llobregat river to the south.\nThe Barcelona harbour is the leading European cruiser port and a most important Mediterranean turnaround base. In 2013, 3,6 million of pleasure cruises passengers used services of the Port of Barcelona.\n\nThe Port Vell area also houses the Maremagnum (a commercial mall), a multiplex cinema, the IMAX Port Vell and one of Europe's largest aquariums – Aquarium Barcelona, containing 8,000 fish and 11 sharks contained in 22 basins filled with 4 million litres of sea water. The Maremagnum, being situated within the confines of the port, is the only commercial mall in the city that can open on Sundays and public holidays.\n\nBarcelona is a major hub for RENFE, the Spanish state railway network. The city's main Inter-city rail station is Barcelona Sants railway station, whilst Estació de França terminus serves a secondary role handling suburban, regional and medium distance services. Freight services operate to local industries and to the Port of Barcelona.\n\nRENFE's AVE high-speed rail system, which is designed for speeds of , was extended from Madrid to Barcelona in 2008 in the form of the Madrid–Barcelona high-speed rail line. A shared RENFE-SNCF high-speed rail connecting Barcelona and France (Paris, Marseilles and Toulouse, through Perpignan–Barcelona high-speed rail line) was launched in 2013. Both these lines serve Barcelona Sants terminal station.\n\nBesides RENFE's services, other rail services in the Barcelona area are operated by the Ferrocarrils de la Generalitat de Catalunya (FGC), owned by the Catalan government. The FGC operates largely commuter rail services, but also carries freight to the Port of Barcelona, as well as a number of rack railways and funiculars and three of the lines of the Barcelona Metro (see \"local public transport\" below). Other suburban services are operated by Rodalies de Catalunya over RENFE tracks.\n\nBarcelona lies on three international routes, including European route E15 that follows the Mediterranean coast, European route E90 to Madrid and Lisbon, and European route E09 to Paris. It is also served by a comprehensive network of motorways and highways throughout the metropolitan area, including A-2, A-7/AP-7, C-16, C-17, C-31, C-32, C-33, C-60.\n\nThe city is circled by three half ring roads or bypasses, Ronda de Dalt (B-20) (on the mountain side), Ronda del Litoral (B-10) (along the coast) and Ronda del Mig (separated into two parts: Travessera de Dalt in the north and the Gran Via de Carles III), two partially covered fast highways with several exits that bypass the city.\n\nThe city's main arteries include Diagonal Avenue, which crosses it diagonally, Meridiana Avenue which leads to Glòries and connects with Diagonal Avenue and Gran Via de les Corts Catalanes, which crosses the city from east to west, passing through its centre. The famous boulevard of La Rambla, whilst no longer an important vehicular route, remains an important pedestrian route.\n\nThe Estació del Nord (Northern Station), a former railway station which was renovated for the 1992 Olympic Games, now serves as the terminus for long-distance and regional bus services.\n\nBarcelona is served by a comprehensive local public transport network that includes a metro, a bus network, two separate modern tram networks, a separate historic tram line, and several funiculars and aerial cable cars. Most of these networks and lines form a coordinated fare system, administered by the Autoritat del Transport Metropolità (ATM), although they are operated by a number of different bodies. This integrated public transport is divided into different zones (1 to 6) and depending on usage various Integrated Travel Cards are available.\n\nThe largely underground Barcelona Metro network comprises twelve lines, identified by an \"L\" followed by the line number as well as by individual colours. Eight of these lines are operated on dedicated track by the Transports Metropolitans de Barcelona (TMB), whilst four lines are operated by the Ferrocarrils de la Generalitat de Catalunya (FGC) and some of them share tracks with that company's commuter lines.\n\nAnother company, TRAMMET, operates the city's two modern tram networks, known as Trambaix and Trambesòs. The historic tram line, the Tramvia Blau, connects the metro (L7, operated by FGC) to the Funicular del Tibidabo (operated by TMB). The Funicular de Tibidabo climbs the Tibidabo hill, as does the Funicular de Vallvidrera (FGC). The Funicular de Montjuïc (TMB) climbs the Montjuïc hill. The city has two aerial cable cars: the Montjuïc Cable Car (to the Montjuïc castle) and the Port Vell Aerial Tramway that runs via Torre Jaume I and Torre Sant Sebastià over the port.\n\nBuses in Barcelona are a major form of public transport, with extensive local, interurban and night bus networks. Most local services are operated by the TMB, although some other services are operated by a number of private companies, albeit still within the ATM fare structure. A separate private bus line, known as Aerobús, links the airport with the city centre, with its own fare structure.\n\nBarcelona has a metered taxi fleet governed by the Institut Metropolità del Taxi (Metropolitan Taxi Institute), composed of more than 10,000 cars. Most of the licences are in the hands of self-employed drivers. With their black and yellow livery, Barcelona's taxis are easily spotted, and can be caught from one of many taxi ranks, hailed on street, called by telephone or via app.\n\nOn 22 March 2007, Barcelona's City Council started the Bicing service, a bicycle service understood as a public transport. Once the user has their user card, they can take a bicycle from any of the more than 400 stations spread around the city and use it anywhere the urban area of the city, and then leave it at another station. The service has been a success, with 50,000 subscribed users in three months.\n\nThe \"Barri Gòtic\" (Catalan for \"Gothic Quarter\") is the centre of the old city of Barcelona. Many of the buildings date from medieval times, some from as far back as the Roman settlement of Barcelona. Catalan \"modernista\" architecture (related to the movement known as Art Nouveau in the rest of Europe) developed between 1885 and 1950 and left an important legacy in Barcelona. Several of these buildings are World Heritage Sites. Especially remarkable is the work of architect Antoni Gaudí, which can be seen throughout the city. His best-known work is the immense but still unfinished church of the Sagrada Família, which has been under construction since 1882 and is still financed by private donations. , completion is planned for 2026.\n\nBarcelona was also home to Mies van der Rohe's Barcelona Pavilion. Designed in 1929 for the International Exposition for Germany, it was an iconic building that came to symbolise modern architecture as the embodiment of van der Rohe's aphorisms \"less is more\" and \"God is in the details.\" The Barcelona pavilion was intended as a temporary structure and was torn down in 1930 less than a year after it was constructed. A modern re-creation by Spanish architects now stands in Barcelona, however, constructed in 1986.\n\nBarcelona won the 1999 RIBA Royal Gold Medal for its architecture, the first (and , only) time that the winner has been a city rather than an individual architect.\n\nBarcelona is the home of many points of interest declared World Heritage Sites by UNESCO:\n\n\nBarcelona has a great number of museums, which cover different areas and eras. The National Museum of Art of Catalonia possesses a well-known collection of Romanesque art, while the Barcelona Museum of Contemporary Art focuses on post-1945 Catalan and Spanish art. The Fundació Joan Miró, Picasso Museum, and Fundació Antoni Tàpies hold important collections of these world-renowned artists, as well as the Can Framis Museum, focused on post-1960 Catalan Art owned by Fundació Vila Casas.\nSeveral museums cover the fields of history and archaeology, like the Barcelona City History Museum (MUHBA), the Museum of the History of Catalonia, the Archeology Museum of Catalonia, the Barcelona Maritime Museum, and the privately owned Egyptian Museum. The Erotic museum of Barcelona is among the most peculiar ones, while CosmoCaixa is a science museum that received the European Museum of the Year Award in 2006.\nThe FC Barcelona Museum has been the most visited museum in the city of Barcelona, with 1,506,022 visitors in 2013.\n\nBarcelona contains sixty municipal parks, twelve of which are historic, five of which are thematic (botanical), forty-five of which are urban, and six of which are forest. They range from vest-pocket parks to large recreation areas. The urban parks alone cover 10% of the city (). The total park surface grows about per year, with a proportion of of park area per inhabitant.\n\nOf Barcelona's parks, Montjuïc is the largest, with 203 ha located on the mountain of the same name. It is followed by Parc de la Ciutadella (which occupies the site of the old military citadel and which houses the Parliament building, the Barcelona Zoo, and several museums); including the zoo), the Guinardó Park (), Park Güell (designed by Antoni Gaudí; ), Oreneta Castle Park (also ), Diagonal Mar Park (, inaugurated in 2002), Nou Barris Central Park (), Can Dragó Sports Park and Poblenou Park (both ), the Labyrinth Park (), named after the garden maze it contains. There are also several smaller parks, for example, the Parc de Les Aigües (). A part of the Collserola Park is also within the city limits. PortAventura World, one of the largest resort in Europe, with 5,837,509 visitors per year, is located one hour's drive from Barcelona. Also, within the city lies Tibidabo Amusement Park, a smaller amusement park in Plaza del Tibidabo, with the Muntanya Russa amusement ride.\n\nBarcelona beach was listed as number one in a list of the top ten city beaches in the world according to \"National Geographic\" and \"Discovery Channel\". Barcelona contains seven beaches, totalling of coastline. Sant Sebastià, Barceloneta and Somorrostro beaches, both in length, are the largest, oldest and the most-frequented beaches in Barcelona.\n\nThe Olympic Harbour separates them from the other city beaches: Nova Icària, Bogatell, Mar Bella, Nova Mar Bella and Llevant. These beaches (ranging from were opened as a result of the city restructuring to host the 1992 Summer Olympics, when a great number of industrial buildings were demolished. At present, the beach sand is artificially replenished given that storms regularly remove large quantities of material. The 2004 Universal Forum of Cultures left the city a large concrete bathing zone on the eastmost part of the city's coastline. Most recently, Llevant is the first beach to allow dogs access during summer season.\n\nBarcelona is twinned with the following cities:\nOther forms of co-operation and city friendship similar to the twin city programmes exist to many cities worldwide.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "9472770", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9472770", "title": "Chronology of Towson University", "text": "Chronology of Towson University\n\nThis is a timeline of major events and changes related to Towson University and its predecessor institutions Maryland State Normal School (1866–1935), Maryland State Teachers College at Towson (1935–1963), Towson State College (1963–1976), and Towson State University (1976–1997).\n\n1865\n\n\n1866\n\n\n1873\n\n\n1876\n\n\n1890\n\n\n1901\n\n\n1905\n\n\n1909\n\n\n1910\n\n\n1915\n\n\n1917\n\n\n1920\n\n\n1921\n\n\n1922\n\n\n1924\n\n\n1927\n\n\n1931\n\n\n1933\n\n\n1934\n\n\n1935\n\n\n1936\n\n\n1937\n\n\n1938\n\n\n1941\n\n\n1942\n\n\n1946\n\n\n1947\n\n\n1949\n\n\n1951\n\n\n1957\n\n\n1958\n\n\n1960\n\nextended to a 4-year program in the arts & science, leading to a B.S. or B.A. in a particular major.\n\n1961\n\n\n1962\n\n\n1963\n\n\n1964\n\n\n1965\n\n\n1967\n\n\n1968\n\n\n1969\n\n\n1970\n\n\n1971\n\n\n1972\n\n\n1973\n\n\n1974\n\n\n1976\n\n\n\n1977\n\n\n1978\n\n\n1979\n\n\n1980\n\n\n1981\n\n\n1982\n\n\n1983\n\n\n1984\n\n\n1985\n\n\n1987\n\n\n1988\n\n\n1989\n\n\n1990\n\n\n1991\n\n\n1992\n\n\n1993\n\n\n1994\n\n\n1995\n\n\n1996\n\n\n1997\n\n\n1998\n\n\n1999\n\n\n2000\n\n\n2001\n\n\n2002\n\n\n2003\n\n\n2006\n\n\n2007\n\n2008\n\n\n"}
{"id": "48304777", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48304777", "title": "Dmitry Odinets", "text": "Dmitry Odinets\n\nDmitriy Odinets (18831950) was a Russian politician and Ukrainian statesman.\n\nIn 1917-18 he was a minister of Great Russian Affairs in the Council of People's Ministers in Ukraine.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "50353024", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50353024", "title": "Dobravac", "text": "Dobravac\n\nDobravac (; 1280) or Dobravec (Добравец) was a Serbian nobleman serving in the crown land of Hum, with the title of \"tepčija\". He is mentioned in a document dated 1280 as serving the countess of Hum (). He had a clerk or assistant, Mojše, who sold two of his bondmaids in Ragusa (Dubrovnik) that year. Although Dobravac's jurisdiction is unknown from the quotation, he was not a \"veliki tepčija\" (serving the king directly); his office was limited to the Hum land, but his type of work was the same as that of the \"veliki tepčija\". The \"tepčija\" had executive authorities; his \"otroci\" ( \"otrok\"), were servants, lesser in rank but not slaves.\n\nThe name is an old Serbian name, found in medieval epigraphy.\n"}
{"id": "10275810", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10275810", "title": "Ed van Thijn", "text": "Ed van Thijn\n\nEduard \"Ed\" van Thijn (; born 16 August 1934) is a retired Dutch politician of the Labour Party (PvdA).\n\nEduard van Thijn was born on 16 August 1934 in Amsterdam to Jewish parents who in 1943 where held in the Westerbork transit camp. He later studied at the University of Amsterdam.\n\nHe served as a member of the House of Representatives from 23 February 1967 until 11 September 1981. When Joop den Uyl became Prime Minister, Van Thijn became the parliamentary leader in the House of Representatives, serving from 15 May 1973 until 16 January 1978. \n\nVan Thijn became Minister of the Interior serving from 11 September 1981 until 29 May 1982 in the Second Van Agt cabinet and again a member of the House of Representatives from 16 September 1982 until 16 June 1983. \n\n16 June 1983, Van Thijn became Mayor of Amsterdam, serving until resignation on 18 January 1994.\n\nOn 4 October 1992, while Van Thijn was Amsterdam Mayor, El Al Flight 1862 crashed into the Groeneveen and Klein-Kruitberg flats in the Bijlmermeer (colloquially \"Bijlmer\") neighbourhood (part of the Amsterdam-Zuidoost district)]. Hundreds of people were left homeless by the crash; the city's municipal buses were used to transport survivors to emergency shelters. Firefighters and police also were forced to deal with reports of looting in the area. \n\nIn January 1994, Van Thijn became Minister of the Interior again serving from 18 January 1994 until 27 May 1994, when he resigned following the \"IRT-affair\". He later served as a Senator from 8 June 1999 until 12 June 2007. \n\nVan Thijn had two ex-wives and a domestic partner. In 1992, Van Thijn married Odette Taminiau. Van Thijn's children are Carla van Thijn (born 1965) and Marion van Thijn (born 1968). Although not raised religiously observant, in recent years he orients himself with Progressive Judaism.\n\n"}
{"id": "2738400", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2738400", "title": "Enchō", "text": "Enchō\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "295772", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=295772", "title": "Epact", "text": "Epact\n\nThe epact (Latin \"epactae\", from Greek: \"epaktai hèmerai\" = added days) used to be described by medieval computists as the age of the Moon in days on 22 March; in the newer Gregorian calendar, however, the epact is reckoned as the age of the ecclesiastical moon on 1 January. Its principal use is in determining the date of Easter by computistical methods. It varies (usually by 11 days) from year to year, because of the difference between the solar year of 365–366 days and the lunar year of 354–355 days.\n\nEpacts can also be used to relate dates in the lunar calendar to dates in the common solar calendar.\n\nA (solar) calendar year has 365 days (366 days in leap years). A lunar year has 12 lunar months which alternate between 30 and 29 days (in leap years, one of the lunar months has a day added).\n\nIf a solar and lunar year start on the same day, then after one year, the start of the solar year is 11 days after the start of the lunar year; after two years, it is 22 days after. These excess days are epacts, and are added to the day of the solar year to determine the day of the lunar year.\n\nWhenever the epact reaches or exceeds 30, an extra (embolismic or intercalary) month is inserted into the lunar calendar, and the epact is reduced by 30.\n\nLeap days extend both the solar and lunar year, so they do not affect epact calculations for any other dates.\n\nThe tropical year is about 365¼ days, while the synodic month is slightly longer than 29½ days, on average; both are non-integers. This gets corrected in the following way. Nineteen tropical years are as long as 235 synodic months (Metonic cycle). A cycle can last 6939 or 6940 full days, depending on whether there are 4 or 5 leap days in this 19-year period.\n\nAfter 19 years the lunations should fall the same way in the solar years, so the epact should repeat after 19 years. However, 19 × 11 = 209, and this is not an integer multiple of the full cycle of 30 epact numbers (209 modulo 30 = 29, not 0). So after 19 years the epact must be corrected by +1 in order for the cycle to repeat over 19 years. This is the \"saltus lunae\" (leap of the moon). The sequence number of the year in the 19-year cycle is called the Golden Number. The extra 209 days fill 7 embolismic months, for a total of 19×12 + 7 = 235 lunations.\n\nWhen the Gregorian calendar reform was instituted in 1582, the lunar cycle previously used with the Julian calendar to complete the calculation of Easter dates was adjusted also, in accordance with a (modification of a) scheme devised by Aloysius Lilius. There were two adjustments of the old lunar cycle:\n\nThe \"solar equation\" would adjust for the Gregorian change in the solar calendar, if they were applied at 1 January of the Julian calendar instead of the Gregorian calendar as the reformers implemented it; moreover the corrections to the solar calendar are leap days, whereas there are 30 epact values for a mean lunar month of 29.5 days and a bit: therefore changing the epact by one does not exactly compensate for a dropped leap day. The \"lunar equation\" adjusts approximately for what had (by 1582) become the experience of many centuries, that the Moon moves a little faster than the expectation of its rate embodied in the old lunar cycle. By 1582 it was noted (e.g. in the text of the bull Inter gravissimas itself) that the new and full moons were occurring \"four days and something more\" sooner than the old lunar cycle had been indicating.\n\nThe discovery of the epact for computing the date of Easter has been attributed to Patriarch Demetrius I of Alexandria, who held office from 189 to 232. In the year 214 he used the epact to produce an Easter calendar, which has not survived, which used an eight-year luni-solar cycle. A subsequent application of the epact to an Easter calendar, using a sixteen-year cycle, is found in the Paschal Table of Hipoolytus, a 112-year list of Easter dates beginning in the year 222 which is inscribed on the side of a statue found in Rome. Augustalis, whose dates have been disputed from the third to the fifth century, computed a \"laterculus\" (little tablet) of Easter dates. As reconstructed, it uses epacts (here the age of the moon on 1 January) and an 84-year luni-solar cycle to compute the dates of Easter using a base date of A.D. 213. If we accept Augustalis's earlier dates, his \"laterculus\" extends from 213 to 312 and Augustalis originated the use of epacts to compute the date of Easter.\n\nAs early as the fourth century. we see Easter computus using the epact and the nineteen-year Metonic cycle in Alexandria, and subsequent computistical tables were influenced by the structure of the Alexandrian calendar. The epact was taken as the age of the Moon on 26 Phamenoth (22 March in the Julian calendar) but that value of the epact also corresponded to the age of the Moon on the last epagomenal day of the preceding year. Thus the epact can be seen as having been established at the beginning of the current year. Subsequent Easter tables, such as those of Bishop Theophilus or Alexandria, which covered 100 years beginning in A.D. 380, and of his successor Bishop Cyril, which covered 95 years beginning in A.D. 437 discussed the computation of the epact in their introductory texts. Under the influence of Dionysius Exiguus and later, of Bede, the Alexandrian Easter Tables were adopted throughout Europe where they established the tradition that the epact was the age of the Moon on 22 March. This Dionysian epact fell into disuse after the introduction of a perpetual calendar based on the golden number, which made the calculation of epacts unnecessary for ordinary computistical calculations.\n\nTwo factors led to the creation of three new forms of the epact in the fifteenth and sixteenth centuries. The first was the increasing error of computistical techniques, which led to the introduction of a new Julian epact around 1478, to be used for practical computations of the phase of the Moon for medical or astrological purposes. With the Gregorian reform of the calendar in 1582, two additional epacts came into use. The first was the Lillian epact, developed by Aloisius Lilius as an element of the ecclesiastical computations using the Gregorian calendar. The Lillian epact included corrections for the motions of the Sun and the Moon that broke the fixed relationship between the epact and the golden number. The second new epact was a simple adjustment of the practical Julian epact to account for the ten-day change produced by the Gregorian Calendar.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "9480680", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9480680", "title": "František Šmahel", "text": "František Šmahel\n\nFrantišek Šmahel (born 17 August 1934 in Trhová Kamenice) is a Czech historian of medieval political and intellectual history, known for his works about Hussitism, Universities in the Middle Ages, Humanism, and Monarch representation in the Middle Ages.\n"}
{"id": "2427310", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2427310", "title": "Fur clothing", "text": "Fur clothing\n\nFur clothing is clothing made of furry animal hides. Fur is one of the oldest forms of clothing, and is thought to have been widely used as hominids first expanded outside Africa. Some view fur as luxurious and warm; however, others reject it due to moral concerns for animal rights. The term 'fur' is often used to refer to a coat, wrap, or shawl made from the fur of animals. Controversy exists regarding the wearing of fur coats, due to animal cruelty concerns. The most popular kinds of fur in the 1960s (known as the luxury fur) were blond mink, silver striped fox and red fox. These were mainly bought by the rich. Those who could not afford this wore pelts of wolf, Persian lamb or muskrat. It was common for ladies to wear a matching hat. However, in the 1950s, a 'must have' type of fur was the mutation fur (naturally nuanced colours) and fur trimmings on a coat that were beaver, lamb fur, Astrakhan and mink. To this day, some people consider fur as a trend and wear it.\n\nFur is generally thought to have been among the first materials used for clothing and bodily decoration. The exact date when fur was first used in clothing is debated. It is known that several species of hominoids including \"Homo sapiens\" and \"Homo neanderthalensis\" used fur clothing.\n\nFur is still worn in most mild and cool climates around the world due to its superior warmth and durability. From the days of early European settlement, up until the development of modern clothing alternatives, fur clothing was popular in Canada during the cold winters. The invention of inexpensive synthetic textiles for insulating clothing led to fur clothing falling out of fashion.\n\nFur is still used by indigenous people and developed societies, due to its availability and superior insulation properties. The Inuit peoples of the Arctic relied on fur for most of their clothing, and it also forms a part of traditional clothing in Russia, Ukraine, Yugoslavia, Scandinavia, and Japan.\n\nIt is also sometimes associated with glamour and lavish spending. A number of consumers and designers—notably British fashion designer and outspoken animal rights activist Stella McCartney—reject fur due to moral beliefs and perceived cruelty to animals.\n\nAnimal furs used in garments and trim may be dyed bright colors or with patterns, often to mimic exotic animal pelts: alternatively they may be left their original pattern and color. Fur may be shorn down to imitate the feel of velvet, creating a fabric called shearling.\n\nCommon animal sources for fur clothing and fur trimmed accessories include fox, rabbit, mink, raccoon dogs, muskrat, beaver, stoat (ermine), otter, sable, seals, cats, dogs, coyotes, wolves, chinchilla, and opossum and common brushtail possum. Some of these are more highly prized than others, and there are many grades and colors.\n\nIn Europe and Asia, cheap and plentiful dog and cat fur is sold under different names to disguise the origin from shoppers in the United States, such as dog fur being labeled \"Mongolian Wolf\". In a study by the Humane Society of the United States, all twenty-five fur trim coats from twenty different retailers were found to be mislabeled, usually in the case of fur from an animal that it is illegal to kill for fur being labeled as a legal animal. One example of this was a coat being labeled as having fur from a raccoon, although DNA testing proved that the fur came from a raccoon dog.\n\nThe manufacturing of fur clothing involves obtaining animal pelts where the hair is left on. Depending on the type of fur and its purpose, some of the chemicals involved in fur processing may include table salts, alum salts, acids, soda ash, sawdust, cornstarch, lanolin, degreasers and, less commonly, bleaches, dyes and toners (for dyed fur). Workers exposed to fur dust created during fur processing have been shown to have reduced pulmonary function in direct proportion to their length of exposure.\n\nIn contrast, leather made from any animal hide involves removing the fur from the skin and using only the tanned skin. However, the use of wool involves shearing the animal's hair from the living animal. Fake fur (or \"faux fur\") designates any synthetic material that attempts to mimic the appearance and feel of real fur.\n\nThe chemical treatment of fur to increase its felting quality is known as carroting, as the process tends to turn the tips of the fur a carrot orange color. A furrier is a person who makes fur products such as fur garments, fur blankets etc. and repairs, alters, cleans, or otherwise deals in furs of animals.\n\nAnti-fur campaigns were popularized the 1980s and 1990s, with the participation of numerous celebrities. Fur clothing has become the focus of boycotts on the opinion that it is cruel and unnecessary. PETA and other animal rights organizations, celebrities, and animal rights ethicists, have called attention to fur farming.\n\nAnimal rights advocates object to the trapping and killing of wildlife, and to the confinement and killing of animals on fur farms due to concerns about the animals suffering and death. They may also condemn \"alternatives\" made from synthetic (oil-based) clothing as they promote fur for the sake of fashion. Protests also include objection to the use of leather in clothing, shoes and accessories.\n\nSome animal rights activists have disrupted fur fashion shows with protests, while other anti-fur protesters may use fashion shows featuring faux furs or other alternatives to fur clothing as a platform to highlight animal suffering from the use of real leathers and furs. These groups sponsor \"Compassionate Fashion Day\" on the third Saturday of August to promote their anti-fur message. Some American groups participate in \"Fur Free Friday\", an event held annually on the Friday after Thanksgiving (Black Friday) that uses displays, protests, and other methods to highlight their beliefs regarding furs.\n\nIn Canada, opposition to the annual seal hunt is viewed as an anti-fur issue, although the Humane Society of the United States claims that its opposition is to \"the largest slaughter of marine mammals on Earth.\" IFAW, an anti-sealing group, claims that Canada has an \"abysmal record of enforcement\" of anti-cruelty laws surrounding the hunt. A Canadian government survey indicated that two-thirds of Canadians supported the hunting of seals if the regulations under Canadian law are enforced.\n\nProducts from all marine mammals, even from non-threatened populations and regulated hunts, such as the Canadian seal hunt, are banned in the United States, with minor exceptions for Alaska Natives.\n\nThe fur trade is the worldwide buying and selling of fur for clothing and other purposes. The fur trade was one of the driving forces of exploration of North America and the Russian Far East.\n"}
{"id": "31923511", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31923511", "title": "Hidden Worlds", "text": "Hidden Worlds\n\nHidden Worlds: Fresh Clues to the Past is a 1974 book, by M. Van Der Veer and P. Moerman, that describes the existence of a previously unidentified ancient civilization that was subsequently destroyed by a natural disaster.\n\n\"Hidden Worlds: Fresh Clues to the Past\" is a rejection of Von Daniken's theories; however, Der Veer and P.Moerman concede the existence of Atlantis. The book contests orthodox history, claiming international settlement in the Americas prior to European colonization of the region by Christopher Columbus in 1492.\n\nUntil 1974, M. Van Der Veer and P. Moerman were both painters, neither holding academic-level scientific qualifications or credentials; subsequently, reviewers criticized their work as pseudoarchaeology.\n"}
{"id": "35228060", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35228060", "title": "Hieronymus Megiser", "text": "Hieronymus Megiser\n\nHieronymus Megiser (c.1554 in Stuttgart – 1618 or 1619 in Linz, Austria) was a German polymath, linguist and historian.\n\nFrom 1571 he studied at the University of Tübingen, and was a favourite student of the humanist and philologist Nicodemus Frischlin. In 1577 he graduated there with a master's degree. In 1581 he moved as a private tutor to Ljubljana (Laibach). From 1582 he studied jurisprudence in Padua and was then active as a private tutor of young noblemen from Croatia and Styria. In 1588/89 he travelled to Italy and Malta, and in 1591 to North Germany, the Netherlands and England. In 1590/91 he was granted the title of \"Ordinarius Historiographus\" by Archduke Charles in Graz. In 1592, still in Graz, he published his Dictionarium quatuor linguarum, the first multilingual dictionary of Slovene. He made the acquaintance of the young Johannes Kepler, and remained in learned correspondence with him. After further travels he settled in Frankfurt am Main and married the daughter of the printer Johann Spiess. From 1593 until 1601 he was the Rector of the evangelical \"Collegium sapientiae et pietatis\" in Klagenfurt, Carinthia. After returning to Frankfurt am Main he became Professor of History at the University of Leipzig. From 1610 the interest of the Upper Austrian dignitaries in history was so great that they required a historian to head up the provincial library, in a similar way to a court historian. Megiser was selected for this role in 1615, and was commissioned to write a chronicle of the province. In 1612 he published \"Annales Carinthiae\" or \"Chronica des Loeblichen Ertzhertzogthumbs Khaerndten\", which he signed as his own work, although it was mainly written by Carinthian pastor Michael Gothard Christalnick and only edited by Megiser on the request of the Carinthian Estates.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "11408137", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11408137", "title": "History of Taoism", "text": "History of Taoism\n\nThe history of Taoism stretches throughout Chinese history. Originating in prehistoric China, it has exerted a powerful influence over Chinese culture throughout the ages. Taoism evolved in response to changing times, with its doctrine and associated practices being revised and refined. The acceptance of Taoism by the ruling class has waxed and waned, alternately enjoying periods of favor and rejection. Most recently, Taoism has emerged from a period of suppression and is undergoing a revival in China.\n\nLaozi is traditionally regarded as the founder of Taoist religion and is closely associated in this context with \"original\", or \"primordial\", Taoism. Whether he actually existed is disputed, however, the work attributed to him - the Daodejing - is dated to the 4th or 3rd century BC. However, Taoism clearly predates Laozi (Lao Tzu) as he refers to \"The Tao masters of antiquity\" in Chapter 15 of the Daodejing (Tao Te Ching). Moreover, the Yellow Emperor, Huangdi (2697–2597 BCE) Is often associated with origin of the Tao.\n\nSinologist Isabelle Robinet identifies four components in the emergence of Taoism:\n\nSome elements of Taoism may be traced to prehistoric folk religions in China that later coalesced into a Taoist tradition. In particular, many Taoist practices drew from the Warring-States-era phenomena of the Wu (shaman) (connected to the \"shamanism\" of Southern China) and the Fangshi (which probably derived from the \"archivist-soothsayers of antiquity, one of whom supposedly was Laozi himself\"), even though later Taoists insisted that this was not the case. Both terms were used to designate individuals dedicated to \"... magic, medicine, divination... methods of longevity and to ecstatic wanderings\" as well as exorcism; in the case of the \"wu\", \"shamans\" or \"sorcerers\" is often used as a translation. The \"fangshi\" were philosophically close to the School of Yin-Yang, and relied much on astrological and calendrical speculations in their divinatory activities.\n\nThe term \"Daojia\" (usually translated as \"philosophical Taoism\") was coined during the Han Dynasty. In Sima Qian's history (chapter 63) it refers to immortals; in Liu Xiang it refers to Laozi and Zhuangzi (\"Daojiao\" came to be applied to the religious movements in later times). The earliest commentary on the \"Dao De Jing\" is that of Heshang Gong (the \"Riverside Master\"), a legendary figure depicted as a teacher to the Han emperor. In the early Han Dynasty, the Tao came to be associated with or conflated with the Xian Di Emperor. A major text from the Huang-Lao movement would be the \"Huainanzi\", which interprets earlier works of the Taoist canon in light of the quest for immortality.\n\nThe first organized form of Taoism, the Tianshi (Celestial Masters') school (later known as Zhengyi school), developed from the Five Pecks of Rice movement at the end of the 2nd century CE; the latter had been founded by Zhang Daoling, who claimed that Laozi appeared to him in the year 142. The Tianshi school was officially recognized by ruler Cao Cao in 215, legitimizing Cao Cao's rise to power in return. Laozi received imperial recognition as a divinity in the mid-2nd century.\n\nThe Celestial Masters' activities did hasten the downfall of the Han Dynasty, largely because Zhang's grandson set up a theocratic state into what is now Sichuan province. The same could be said of their contemporaries, the Taoist-leaning Yellow Turban sect.\n\nDuring the Three Kingdoms Period, the Xuanxue (Mysterious Wisdom) school, including Wang Bi, focused on the texts of Laozi and Zhuangzi. Many of the school's members, including Wang Bi himself, were not religious in any sense. Wang Bi mostly focused on reconciling Confucian thought with Taoist thought. Because the version of the Tao Te Ching that has been passed on to the present is the one that Wang Bi commented upon, his interpretations became very influential as they were passed on alongside the Tao Te Ching. In addition, his commentary was compatible with Confucian ideas and Buddhist ideas that later entered China. This compatibility ensured Taoism would remain an important aspect of Chinese culture, and made the merging of the three religions easier in later periods, such as the Tang dynasty.\n\nTaoist alchemist Ge Hong, also known as Baopuzi (抱扑子 The \"Master Embracing Simplicity\") was active in the third and fourth centuries and had great influence on later Taoism. Major scriptures were produced during this time period, including The Shangqing (上清 \"Supreme Clarity\") (365–370) and Lingbao (靈寶 \"Sacred Treasure\") scriptures (397–402) received at Maoshan. The Shangqing revelations were received by Yang Xi, a relative of Ge Hong's; the revelations emphasised meditative visualisation (內觀 \"neiguan\"). They spoke of the Shangqing heaven, which stood above what had been previously considered the highest heaven by Celestial Master Taoists. Yang Xi's revelations consisted of visitations from the residents of this heaven (the \"Zhenren\") many of whom were ancestors of a circle of aristocrats from southern China. These Zhenren spoke of an apocalypse which was to arrive in 384, and claimed that only certain people from this aristocratic circle had been chosen to be saved. For the first century of its existence, Shangqing Taoism was isolated to this aristocratic circle. However, Tao Hongjing (456–536) codified and wrote commentaries on Yang Xi's writings and allowed for the creation of Shangqing Taoism as a popular religion. The Lingbao scriptures added some Buddhist elements such as an emphasis on universal salvation.\n\nAlso during the Six Dynasties period, the Celestial Master movement re-emerged in two distinct forms. The Northern Celestial Masters were founded in 424 century by Kou Qianzhi, and a Taoist theocracy was established that lasted until 450 CE. After this time, the Northern Celestial Masters were expelled from the Wei court and re-established themselves at Louguan where they survived into the Tang Dynasty. The Southern Celestial Masters were centered at Jiankang (modern-day Nanjing, and were likely made of those adherents who fled Sichuan and others who fled from Luoyang after its fall in 311 CE. These various followers of The Way of the Celestial Master coalesced to form a distinct form of Taoism known as the Southern Celestial Masters, who lasted as a distinct movement into the fifth century.\n\nTaoism gained official status in China during the Tang Dynasty, whose emperors claimed Laozi as their relative. However, it was forced to compete with Confucianism and Buddhism, its major rivals, for patronage and rank. Emperor Xuanzong (685–762), who ruled at the height of the Tang, wrote commentaries on texts from all three of these traditions, which exemplifies the fact that in many people's lives they were not mutually exclusive. This marks the beginning of a long-lived tendency within imperial China, in which the government supported (and simultaneously regulated) all three movements. The Gaozong Emperor added the \"Tao Te Ching\" to the list of classics (\"jing,\" 經) to be studied for the imperial examinations.\n\nSeveral Song emperors, most notably Huizong, were active in promoting Taoism, collecting Taoist texts and publishing editions of the \"Daozang.\"\n\nThe Quanzhen school of Taoism was founded during this period, and together with the resurgent Celestial Masters called the Zhengyi is one of the two schools of Taoism that have survived to the present.\n\nThe Song Dynasty saw an increasingly complex interaction between the elite traditions of organised Taoism as practised by ordained Taoist ministers (\"daoshi\") and the local traditions of folk religion as practised by spirit mediums (\"wu\") and a new class of non-ordained ritual experts known as \"fashi\". This interaction manifested itself in the integration of 'converted' local deities into the bureaucratically organised Taoist pantheon and the emergence of new exorcistic rituals, including the Celestial Heart Rites and the Thunder Rites.\n\nAspects of Confucianism, Taoism, and Buddhism were consciously synthesised in the Neo-Confucian school, which eventually became Imperial orthodoxy for state bureaucratic purposes.\n\nTaoism suffered a significant setback in 1281 when many copies of the \"Daozang\" were ordered burned. This destruction gave Taoism a chance to renew itself. \"Neidan\", a form of internal alchemy, became a major emphasis of the Quanzhen sect, whose practitioners followed a monastic model inspired by Buddhism. One of its leaders, Qiu Chuji became a teacher of Genghis Khan before the establishment of the Yuan Dynasty. (and used his influence to save millions of lives). Originally from Shanxi and Shandong, the sect established its main center in Beijing's Baiyunguan (\"White Cloud Monastery\"). Before the end of the dynasty, the Celestial Masters sect (and Buddhism) again gained preeminence.\n\nIn 1406, Ming emperor Zhu Di commanded that all Taoist texts be collected and combined into a new version of the \"Daozang.\" The text was finally finished in 1447, and took nearly forty years to complete.\n\nThe fall of the Ming Dynasty and the subsequent establishment of the Qing Dynasty by the Manchus was blamed by some literati on religion, specifically Taoism. They sought to regain power by advocating a return to Confucian orthodoxy in a movement called \"Hanxue\", or \"Han Learning.\" This movement returned the Confucian classics to favor and nearly completely rejected Taoism. During the eighteenth century, the imperial library was constituted, but excluded virtually all Taoist books. By the beginning of the twentieth century, Taoism had fallen much from favor (only one complete copy of the \"Daozang\" still remained, at the White Cloud Monastery in Beijing).\n\nGuomindang (Chinese Nationalist Party) leaders embraced science, modernity, and Western culture, including (to some extent) Christianity. Viewing the popular religion as reactionary and parasitic, they confiscated some temples for public buildings, and otherwise attempted to control traditional religious activity.\n\nThe Communist Party of China, officially atheistic, initially suppressed Taoism along with other religions. During the Cultural Revolution from 1966 to 1976, many Taoist temples and sites were damaged and Monks and priests were sent to labor camps.\n\nPersecution of Taoists stopped in 1979, and many Taoists began reviving their traditions. Subsequently, many temples and monasteries have been repaired and reopened.\n\nTaoism is one of five religions recognized by the PRC, which regulates its activities through the China Taoist Association. Sensitive areas include the relationship of the Zhengyi Taoists with their sect's lineage-holder, who lives in Taiwan, and various traditional temple activities such as astrology and shamanism, which have been criticized as \"superstitious\".\n\nFrom 1927-1944, the chief proponent of Taoism in the West was Professor Henri Maspero in Paris. Michael Saso was the first westerner to be initiated as a Taoist priest; he subsequently served also as co-editor of \"Taoist Resources\". Today, many Taoist organizations have been established in the West.\n\n\"Popular Western Taoism\" is a term coined by Jonathan R. Herman in his 1998 review of Ursula K. Le Guin's \"Daodejing\" \"rendition\", referring to the\nabundance of new literature on Taoism by nonspecialists, including \"translations\" of Taoist texts by authors who (sometimes boastfully) lack linguistic competence. Scholars have been quick to reject such documents as ahistorical and inauthentic, and many do indeed combine questionable scholarship with a promiscuous blend of western individualism and new-age universalism. However, this popular western Taoism is not exclusively or even primarily a scholarly phenomenon; rather, it is an \"aesthetic\", \"cultural\", and \"religious\" phenomenon.\nThis review was largely positive with some criticisms and cautions. While Herman states that the book \"is not a useful text for informing students\" about philosophical thought during the Chinese Warring States period,\nHerman praised the book as a \"surprisingly interesting and scholastically responsible\" example of western Daoist thought and as \"an intelligent example of the emerging western transformation of Taoism, an area too often overlooked by sinologists.\" On the other hand, he criticized that Le Guin \"make[s] some claims—or rather, employs some language—that may carry misleading implications\", such as identifying Laozi \"as a mystic and his perceptions as mystical, without ever defining the terms or questioning what generalizations can be drawn.\"\n\nHerman subsequently described popular Western Taoism as the modern proliferation of self-proclaimed Daoist journals, meditation centers, websites, and renderings of Daoist texts by nonspecialists; and said, \"not surprisingly, the sinological community (myself included) has generally greeted this overall phenomenon – what I will from here on label \"popular Western Daoism\" – with varying degrees of indifferences, amusement, and derision.\"\n\nIn a 1998 article about teaching Daoism, Russell Kirkland urged colleagues not to \"Pooh-pooh Taoism\" with \"popular fluff\" like Benjamin Hoff's coffee-table book \"The Tao of Pooh\", and characterized Stephen Mitchell and others as \"self-indulgent dilettantes who deceive the public by publishing pseudo-translations of the \"Tao-te ching\", without having actually read the text in its original language\".\n\nLouis Komjathy described modern \"Western Daoism\" or \"American Daoism\" in religious studies terms, where \"New Age discourse communities and advocates of Perennial Philosophy identify and interpret Daoist texts as part of a 'universal wisdom tradition'.\" Komjathy later elaborated on these spiritual hybrids that \"domesticate, sterilize and misrepresent Daoism\", and may best be understood as part of a new religious movement labeled \"Popular Western Taoism (PWT), with 'Taoism' pronounced with a hard 't' sound.\" In this construct, \"'Daoism' becomes anything for anyone\", and Popular Western Taoism \"has little to no connection with the Daoist religious tradition.\"\n\nHad lreligion 7em9a\n\n"}
{"id": "24431255", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24431255", "title": "History of the Jews in Khaybar", "text": "History of the Jews in Khaybar\n\nThe history of the Jews in Khaybar flourished during the 7th century which is now located some 95 miles to the north of Medina (ancient Yathrib) in present-day Saudi Arabia.\n\nThe first migration of Jews to Khaybar dates back, by some accounts, to the time of king David, others date it back to the time of Babylonian exile \nThe Jewish settlers of Khaybar were the descendants of Shephatiah the son of Mahalalel from the tribe of Judah and some settlers were descendants of the Cohanim\n\nThe Jews of Khaybar pioneered the cultivation of the oasis and made their living growing date palm trees, as well as through commerce and craftsmanship, accumulating considerable wealth. Some objects found by the Muslims when they entered Khaybar—a siege-engine, 20 bales of Yemenite cloth, and 500 cloaks—point out to an intense trade carried out by the Jews. In the past some scholars attempted to explain the siege-engine by suggesting that it was used for settling quarrels among the families of the community. Today most academics believe it was stored in a depôt for future sale, in the same way that swords, lances, shields, and other weaponry had been sold by the Jews to Arabs. Equally, the cloth and the cloaks may have been intended for sale, as it was unlikely that such a quantity of luxury goods were kept for the exclusive use of the Jews. However, these commercial activities led to some resentment that is similar to the economic causes that were behind persecutions in many other countries throughout history.\n\nDuring the reign of Caliph Umar (634–644), the Jewish community of Khaybar were transported alongside the Christian community of Najran to the newly conquered regions of Syria and Iraq. As a settlement, Umar issued orders that these Christians and Jews should be treated well and allotted them land in their new settlements equivalent to they land they initially owned. However, Umar also forbade non-Muslims to reside in the Hejaz for longer than three days. Since then, the Jews of Khaybar traveled around many areas throughout the Islamic Empire as artisans and merchants and maintained a distinctive identity until the 12th century.\n\n"}
{"id": "42563298", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42563298", "title": "Hollywood on the Tiber", "text": "Hollywood on the Tiber\n\nHollywood on the Tiber is a phrase used to describe the period in the 1950s and 1960s when the Italian capital of Rome emerged as a major location for international filmmaking attracting a large number of foreign productions to the Cinecittà studios. By contrast to the native Italian film industry, these movies were made in English for global release. Although the primary markets for such films were American and British audiences, they enjoyed widespread popularity in other countries, including Italy.\n\nThe commercial success of \"Quo Vadis\" (1951) led to a stream of blockbusters produced in Italy by Hollywood studios, which reached its height with 20th Century Fox's \"Cleopatra\" in 1963. The phrase \"Hollywood on Tiber\", a reference to the river that runs through Rome, was coined in 1950 by \"Time Magazine\" during the making of \"Quo Vadis\". \n\nFollowing World War II, Hollywood studios increasingly shifted production abroad both to take advantage of lower costs and to use frozen funds (profits from American films which foreign governments barred from export). These films, known as runaway productions, could also benefit from local subsidies. By the early 1950s, some of the largest-budget American films were being shot in European countries, particularly in Britain and Italy. In both countries newly arrived American companies worked alongside continuing large-scale domestic film industries.\n\nIn Italy, the film-makers used the vast Cinecittà complex which had been built in the 1930s by Benito Mussolini's Fascist regime which was aiming to rebuild Italian cinema. Following Mussolini's overthrow in 1943, production at Cinecittà was suspended and no new films were made until 1948.\n\nAlthough American companies had shot in Italy before (such as Fox's 1922 silent \"Nero\" and MGM's 1925 \"\"), the scale of the post-war investment was unprecedented. Many of the films were sword and sandal epics, often set in Ancient Rome which required large film sets and location filming. Other films included contemporary-set romances \"Roman Holiday\" (1953) and \"Three Coins in the Fountain\" (1954). The companies imported actors from a variety of countries (particularly Britain and the United States), who appeared alongside Italians who generally played smaller, supporting roles or extras. Sophia Loren was a notable Italian star with sufficient international appeal to be cast in a leading role.\n\nIn 1962, the lengthy and troubled production of \"Cleopatra\" brought further media attention to the city. The delays led to a spiraling budget, making it the most expensive film ever made at the time.\n\nFar from leading to a decline in Italian cinema, the native industry boomed during the era. In 1960, Italian films outperformed American imports to Italy for the first time since 1946. However, there was a growing influence of Hollywood-style productions, as popular Italian genres such as the Sword-and-sandal and Spaghetti Western attempted to imitate successful Hollywood productions. Italian actors and directors often adopted English-sounding names.\n\nCinecittà was at the peak of its international fame between the production of \"Ben Hur\" and \"Cleopatra\" (1958-1960). As the 1960s drew on, the fashion for classical epics began to decline following the commercial failure of \"The Fall of the Roman Empire\" (1964), although films in other genres such as David Lean's \"Doctor Zhivago\" (1965) continued to be profitable. \n\nIn 2009 a documentary film \"Hollywood on the Tiber\" was released. It portrays Cinecittà and the various stars who worked there between 1950 and 1970.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "8884904", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8884904", "title": "Islam and modernity", "text": "Islam and modernity\n\nIslam and modernity is a topic of discussion in contemporary sociology of religion. The history of Islam chronicles different interpretations and approaches. Modernity is a complex and multidimensional phenomenon rather than a unified and coherent one. It has historically had different schools of thought moving in many directions.\n\nIn the 18th century Europe was undergoing major transformations as the new ideas of the Enlightenment, which stressed the importance of science, rationality, and human reason, and the new technologies of the Industrial Revolution swept across Europe, giving Europeans great power and influence. In the last quarter of the 18th century, the gap widened between the technical skills of some western and northern European countries and those of the rest of the world.\n\nThe rise of modern Europe coincided with what many scholars refer to as the decline of the Ottoman Empire, which by the 18th century was facing political, military, and economic breakdown. While prior to the 18th century the Ottomans had regarded themselves to be either of superior or, by the mid-18th century, of equal strength to Europe, by the end of the 18th century the power relationship between the Ottoman Empire and Europe began to shift in Europe's favor.\n\nIn 1798 Napoleon Bonaparte's army occupied the Ottoman province of Egypt and killed roughly 3000 Egyptians. Although the occupation was only three years, followed by lingering hostility to the French, the experience ultimately exposed the Egyptian people to Enlightenment ideas and Europe's new technology.\n\nThe exposure to European power and ideas would later inspire the new governor of Egypt, Muhammad Ali, to draw on this technology to modernize Egypt, setting an example for the rest of the Ottoman Empire. The Ottoman government began to open embassies and send officials to study in Europe. This created conditions for the \"gradual formation of a group of reformers with a certain knowledge of the modern world and a conviction that the empire must belong to it or perish\".\nOne of the scholars sent by Muhammad Ali to Europe in 1826 was Rifa'a Rafi' al-Tahtawi. The five years he spent in Paris left a permanent mark on him. After his return to Egypt he wrote about his impressions of France and translated numerous European works into Arabic. Tahtawi was impressed with Europe's technological and scientific advancement and political philosophy. Having studied Islamic Law, he argued that \"it was necessary to adapt the Sharia to new circumstances\" and that there was not much difference between \"the principles of Islamic law and those principles of 'natural law' on which the codes of modern Europe were based\".\n\nLike Tahtawi, Khayr al-Din was also sent to Paris where he spent four years. After his return from Europe he wrote a book in which he argued that the only way to strengthen the Muslim States was by borrowing ideas and institutions from Europe, and that this did not contradict the spirit of the Sharia.\n\nIn the period between 1839 and 1876 the Ottoman government began instituting large-scale reforms as a way to modernize and strengthen the empire. Known as the Tanzimat, many of these reforms involved adopting successful European practices that were considered antithetical to conservative Muslims. In addition to military and administrative reforms, Ottoman rulers implemented reforms in the sphere of education, law, and the economy. This included new universities and changes in curricula, as well new economic systems and institutions. There were also European-inspired changes to law that restricted Islamic law to family affairs such as marriage and inheritance.\n\nThe Ottoman Empire was the first Muslim country where modernity surfaced, with major shifts in scientific and legal thought. In 1834, Ishak Efendi published \"Mecmua-i Ulum-i Riyaziye\", a four volume text introducing many modern scientific concepts to the Muslim world. Kudsi Efendi also published \"Asrar al-Malakut\" in 1846 in an attempt to reconcile Copernican astronomy with Islam. The first modern Turkish chemistry text was published in 1848, and the first modern Biology text in 1865.\n\nEventually, the Turks adopted the metric system in 1869. These shifts in scientific thought coincided with Tanzimat, a reform policy undertaken by the Sultans of the Ottoman Empire that was inspired by French civil law. This reform confined sharia to family law. The key figure in the Turkish modernist movement was Namik Kemal, the editor of a journal called \"Freedom\". His goal was to promote freedom of the press, the separation of powers, equality before the law, scientific freedom, and a reconciliation between parliamentary democracy and the Qur'an.\n\nThe influence of modernism in the Muslim world resulted in a cultural revival. Dramatic plays became more common, as did newspapers. Notable European works were analyzed and translated.\n\nLegal reform was attempted in Egypt, Tunisia, the Ottoman Empire, and Iran, and in some cases these reforms were adopted. Efforts were made to restrict the power of government. Polygamy was ended in India. Azerbaijan granted suffrage to women in 1918 (before several European countries).\n\nAt the recommendations of reform-minded Islamic scholars, western sciences were taught in new schools. Much of this had to do with the intellectual appeal of social Darwinism, since it led to the conclusion that an old-fashioned Muslim society could not compete in the modern world.\n\nIn 19th century Iran, Mirza Malkom Khan arrived after being educated in Paris. He created a newspaper called \"Qanun\", where he advocated the separation of powers, secular law, and a bill of rights. Jamal al-Din al-Afghani, who was politically active in the Islamic world and published the pamphlet \"Al-'Urwa al-Wuthqà\" during a brief spell in France, proclaiming that Europe had become successful due to its laws and its science. He became critical of other Muslim scholars for stifling scientific thought, and hoped to encourage scientific inquiry in the Muslim world.\n\nModernism impacted interpretations of Islam. One movement was Islamic Modernism, which was both an attempt to provide an Islamic response to the challenges presented by European colonial expansion, and an effort to reinvigorate and reform Islam from within as a way to counter the perceived weakness and decline of Muslim societies in the 19th and early 20th centuries. It called for \"a 'reformation' or reinterpretation (ijtihad) of Islam\", and emerged in the Muslim world from Egypt to Southeast Asia.\n\nIslamic modernists argued that Islam and modernity were compatible and \"asserted the need to reinterpret and reapply the principles and ideals of Islam to formulate new responses to the political, scientific, and cultural challenges of the West and of modern life\". The reforms they proposed challenged the status quo maintained by the conservative Muslims scholars (ulama), who saw the established law as the ideal order that had to be followed and upheld the doctrine of taqlid (imitation / blind following). Islamic modernists saw the resistance to change on the part of the conservative ulama as a major cause for the problems the Muslim community was facing as well as its inability to counter western hegemony.\n\nJamal al-Din al-Afghani (1838–1897) is regarded as one of the pioneers of Islamic modernism. He believed that Islam was compatible with science and reason and that in order to counter European power the Muslim world had to embrace progress.\n\nMuhammad Abduh (1849–1905) was a disciple and collaborator of al-Afghani. He was even more influential than his master and is often referred to as the founder of Islamic modernism. Abduh was born and raised in Egypt and was a scholar of Islam (alim). He taught at al-Azhar and other institutions and in 1899 became Mufti of Egypt. Abduh believed that the Islamic world was suffering from an inner decay and was in need of a revival. Asserting that \"Islam could be the moral basis of a modern and progressive society\", he was critical of both secularists and the conservative ulama. He called for a legal reform and the reinterpretation (ijtihad) of Islamic law according to modern conditions. While critical of the West, he believed that it was necessary to borrow or assimilate what was good from it. Abduh became a leading judge in Egypt after political activities in Paris as al-Afghani's assistant. He pushed for secular law, religious reform, and education for girls. He hoped that Egypt would ultimately become a free republic, much like how France had transformed from an absolute monarchy.\n\nMuhammad Rashid Rida (1869–1935) also became active in the Egyptian modernization movement as Abduh's disciple, although he was born and educated in Syria. \"Al-Manar\" was his journal, through which he initially advocated greater openness to science and foreign influence. He also stated that sharia was relatively silent about agriculture, industry, and trade, and that these areas of knowledge needed renewal. He would eventually evolve to conservative positions close to Wahhabism. Qasim Amin was another reformer in Egypt and Abduh's disciple who was heavily concerned with the rights of women.\n\nKhayr al-Din al-Tunisi was similarly educated in Paris around the same time. He surveyed the political systems of 21 European countries in an effort to reform Tunisia.\n\nNotable Modernists on the Indian subcontinent include Sayyid Ahmad Khan (1817–1898) and Muhammad Iqbal (1877–1938) in the Indian subcontinent (the latter was also the conceiver of the modern state of Pakistan). Like al-Afghani and Abduh, they rejected the doctrine of taqlid and asserted the need for Islam to be reinterpreted according to modern conditions.\n\nOther Modernists include Mahmud Tarzi of Afghanistan, Chiragh Ali of India, Ahmad Dahlan of Java, and Wang Jingzhai of China.\n\nAlthough Islamic modernists were subject to the criticism that the reforms they promoted amounted to westernizing Islam, their legacy was significant and their thought influenced future generations of reformers.\n\nMuhammad Ali Jinnah, the founder of Pakistan, was also a prominent Muslim modernist of the twentieth century.\n\nIn some parts of the world, the project of Islamic modernity continued from the same trajectory before World War I. This was especially the case in the new Republic of Turkey, under Mustafa Kemal Atatürk. But in Egypt, Hassan al-Banna founded the Muslim Brotherhood, the first Islamist organization, which had no interest in reinterpreting Islam to make it compatible with modernity.\n\nTurkey has continued to be at the forefront of modernising Islam. In 2008 its Department of Religious Affairs launched a review of all the hadiths, the sayings of Mohammed upon which most of Islamic law is based. The School of Theology at Ankara University undertook this forensic examination with the intent of removing centuries of often conservative cultural baggage and rediscovering the spirit of reason in the original message of Islam. One expert at London's Chatham House compared these revisions to the Christian Protestant Reformation. Turkey has also trained hundreds of women as theologians, and sent them senior imams known as \"vaizes\" all over the country, away from the relatively liberal capital and coastal cities, to explain these re-interpretations at town hall meetings.\n\nThe aftermath of World War I resulted in the fall of the Ottoman Empire and the domination of the Middle East by European powers such as Britain and France. Intellectual historians such as Peter Watson suggest that World War I marks the end of the main Islamic modernist movements, and that this is the point where many Muslims \"lost faith with the culture of science and materialism\", but that several parallel intellectual streams emerged thereafter.\n\nArab socialism of the Arab Socialist Ba'ath Party and Nasserite movement emerged as a stream of thought during decolonialization of Arab countries. It emphasized ethnicity, culture, politics and played down the role of religion. Its popularity peaked in the 50s and 60s.\n\nAs a political ideology based on an amalgamation of Pan-Arabism and socialism, Arab socialism is distinct from the much broader tradition of socialist thought in the Arab world which predates Arab socialism by as much as 50 years. Michel Aflaq, the principal founder of ba'athism and the Ba'ath Party, coined the term in order to distinguish his version of socialist ideology from the Marxist socialism in Eastern Europe and Eastern Asia, and social democracy in Western Europe.\n\nThe Six-Day War between Israel and its neighbours ended in a decisive loss for the Muslim side. Many in the Islamic world saw this as the failure of socialism. It was at this point that \"fundamental and militant Islam began to fill the political vacuum created\".\n\nIn the late 20th century an Islamic Revival or Islamic Awakening developed in the Muslim World. (Islamic fundamentalism is the common term in the West used to refer to contemporary Islamic revivalism, according to John Esposito.)\n\nIt was manifested in greater religious piety and in a growing adoption of Islamic culture. One striking example of it is the increase in attendance at the \"Hajj\", the annual pilgrimage to Mecca, which grew from 90,000 in 1926 to 2 million in 1979. But the said increase in the number of pilgrims may also be attributed to other factors such as increase in populations, modern transportation facilities and to some extent the over all financial prosperity of the Muslims all over the world thus making the Pilgrimage affordable to more and more Muslim populations.\n\nTwo of the most important events that fueled or inspired the resurgence were the Arab oil embargo and subsequent quadrupling of the price of oil in the mid-1970s, and the 1979 Iranian Revolution that established an Islamic republic in Iran under Ayatollah Khomeini. The first created a flow of many billions of dollars from Saudi Arabia to fund Islamic books, scholarships, fellowships, and mosques around the world; the second undermined the assumption that Westernization strengthened Muslim countries and was the irreversible trend of the future.\n\nThe revival is a reversal of the Westernisation approach common in Arab and Asian governments earlier in the 20th century. It is often associated with the political Islamic movement, Islamism, and other forms of re-Islamisation. While the revival has also been accompanied by some religious extremism and attacks on civilians and military targets by the extremists, this represents only a small part of the revival.\n\nThe revival has also seen a proliferation of Islamic extremist groups in the Middle East and elsewhere in the Muslim World, who have voiced their anger at perceived exploitation as well as materialism, Westernization, democracy and modernity, which are most commonly associated with accepting Western secular beliefs and values. The spread of secularism has caused great concerns among many Islamic political groups. It has been the reasoning for the Islamization of politics and protest, due to the large Muslim majority in the Middle East as well as the region's imperial past. For Islamic countries in the Middle East, there is not necessarily a problem as such with modernity, however, \"the problem is when modernity comes wrapped with westernization, with absolutely and utterly rampant materialism\".\n\nIn the book, \"Political Islam: Religion and Politics in the Arab World\" (1994), the author N. Ayubi explained what he believes to be the two main concerns of Islamic political movements and extremist groups in the Middle East; 1) the Western belief in a bureaucratic state and 2) the secular values and beliefs associated with concepts such as modernity.\n\nAccording to John Esposito:\n\nThe tendency to judge the actions of Muslims in splendid isolation, to generalize from the actions of the few to the many, to disregard similar excesses committed in the name of other religions and ideologies ... is not new.\n\nThe number of militant Islamic movements calling for \"an Islamic state and the end of Western influence\" is relatively small. According to polls taken in 2008 and 2010 by Pew and Gallop, pluralities of the population in Muslim-majority countries are undecided as to what extent religion (and certain interpretations of) should influence public life, politics, and the legal system.\n\n\n\n\nReform movements within Islam:\n\nNation specific:\n\nOther religions:\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "35055509", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35055509", "title": "J. D. Davies", "text": "J. D. Davies\n\nJ. D. (David) Davies (born 1 April 1957, Llanelli, Carmarthenshire) is a British historian, specialising primarily in naval history, and the author of both fiction and non-fiction books.\n\nDavies was educated at Llanelli Boys' Grammar School and Jesus College, Oxford. After teaching for some years in Newquay, Cornwall, he returned to Oxford to undertake doctoral research on the naval history of the Restoration period. He was awarded the degree of DPhil in 1986. He subsequently taught history and politics at Bedford Modern School, also serving as a Sub-Lieutenant RNR (CCF). Ultimately, he served as Deputy Head (Academic) at BMS from 2000 to 2004. He then gave up full-time teaching to develop his writing career.\n\nDavies's first book, \"Gentlemen and Tarpaulins: The Officers and Men of the Restoration Navy\" (1991) was a revised version of his doctoral thesis . His second book, \"Pepys's Navy: Ships, Men and Warfare 1649–89\", was published in 2008, followed in 2010 by his first non-naval book, \"Blood of Kings: the Stuarts, the Ruthvens and the ‘Gowrie Conspiracy’\". \n\nDavies has contributed many articles and essays to historical journals and other works, including 67 entries in the \"Oxford Dictionary of National Biography\" and a chapter in the \"Oxford History of the Royal Navy\". \"Britannia's Dragon: a Naval History of Wales\" was published in 2013 by the History Press, and he is working on a history of the Stepney family, baronets of Llanelli.\n\nHis non-fiction book \"Kings of the Sea: Charles II, James II and the Royal Navy\", was published by in 2017. It discusses how the two monarchs developed the navy but also provides new information about Charles II.\n\nIn June 2018, Davies was working on the first novel in a new Tudor Naval series.\n\nSet in the period Davies had been researching for over 25 years, the series of novels centre on the adventures of Captain Matthew Quinton, one of the young \"gentlemen captains\" promoted by King Charles II of England despite their almost complete lack of experience of the sea. The first book, \"Gentleman Captain\", published in North America in 2009, was very well received, being described by Booklist as \"a splendid book, with terrific characters, a thrilling adventure, and a wonderful sense of time and place\" and by Kirkus Reviews as \"a delightful tale\" . The subsequent books in the series (as of June 2018) include \"The Mountain of Gold\", \"The Blast that Tears the Skies\", \"The Lion of Midnight\", \"The Battle Of All The Ages\", \"Death's Bright Angel\", \"The Rage of Fortune\" and \"The Devil Upon the Wave\". \n\nNot officially one of the series in some lists, another book (2014), \"Ensign Royal\", also features Matthew Quinton but is a shorter novella.\n\nDavies won the Julian Corbett essay prize for naval history in 1986, and in 2009 \"Pepys’s Navy\" was awarded the Samuel Pepys prize and Latham medal. Davies was elected chairman of the Naval Dockyards Society in 2005, a position that he continues to hold, and served as Vice-President of the Navy Records Society from 2008 to 2012, having previously served several terms on the society's council. He is also currently a councillor of the Society for Nautical Research and a member of the committee of the Samuel Pepys Club. Davies was elected a Fellow of the Royal Historical Society in 2010 .\n\nDavies lives in Bedfordshire with his partner Wendy Berliner, an award-winning education journalist who served as education correspondent of \"The Guardian\", editor of the \"Times Educational Supplement\", and is now Head of Education for Guardian Business and Professional.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "47891245", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47891245", "title": "James Rodger Brandon", "text": "James Rodger Brandon\n\nJames Rodger Brandon (1927 – 19 September 2015) was an American academic who was a professor of Asian theater specializing in Kabuki and Sanskrit theater at the University of Hawaii. He was a member of the generation of scholars who first brought Asian theater to English-speaking audiences in the post-War period, translating dozens of plays and directing many performances, some of which toured widely throughout the United States.\n\nBrandon was drafted into the military in 1950 and was stationed in Japan and Korea during the Korean War. It was with only two days left before his tour ended and he returned to the United States that he saw his first kabuki performance. It was this performance that awakened his interest in Asian theater. He returned to the University of Wisconsin–Madison to take a Ph.D. in theater on the G.I. Bill.\n\nAfter completing his Ph.D., he entered the foreign service where he was a cultural affairs officer stationed in Jakarta, Indonesia from 1955-1957.\n\nThe Japanese government awarded him the Order of the Rising Sun, Golden Rays with Rosette, Imperial Decoration in 1994.\n\nIn 1965, along with Andrew T. Tsubaki and Farley Richmond, he founded the Afro-Asian Theater Project, which after a series of reorganizations has been known since 1987 as the Association for Asian Performance.\n\nHe co-founded the \"Asian Theatre Journal\" with Elizabeth Wichmann-Walczak in 1984.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "171158", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=171158", "title": "John Lloyd Stephens", "text": "John Lloyd Stephens\n\nJohn Lloyd Stephens (November 28, 1805 – October 13, 1852) was an American explorer, writer, and diplomat. Stephens was a pivotal figure in the rediscovery of Maya civilization throughout Middle America and in the planning of the Panama railroad.\n\nJohn Lloyd Stephens was born November 28, 1805, in the township of Shrewsbury, New Jersey. He was the second son of Benjamin Stephens, a successful New Jersey merchant, and Clemence Lloyd, daughter of an eminent local judge. The following year the family moved to New York City. There Stephens received an education in the Classics at two privately tutored schools. At the age of 13 he enrolled at Columbia College, graduating at the top of his class four years later in 1822.\n\nAfter studying law with an attorney for a year, he attended the Litchfield Law School. He passed the bar exam after completing his course of study, and practiced in New York City.\n\nStephens embarked on a journey through Europe in 1834, and went on to Egypt and the Levant, returning home in 1836. He later wrote several popular books about his travels and explorations.\n\nHe was recommended for the post of Minister to the Netherlands in 1837, but Martin Van Buren nominated Harmanus Bleecker, who served until 1842.\n\nIn 1846 Stephens was a delegate from to the state constitutional convention, where he was responsible for the introduction and adoption of a conciliation court (small claims court).\n\nStephens read with interest early accounts of ruined cities of Mesoamerica by such writers and explorers as Alexander von Humboldt and Juan Galindo.\n\nIn 1839, President Martin Van Buren commissioned Stephens as Special Ambassador to Central America. While there, the government of the Federal Republic of Central America fell apart, in a civil war. He later published an account of the events he witnessed in Central America, \"Incidents of Travel in Central America, Chiapas and Yucatán\".\n\nStephens and his traveling companion, architect and draftsman Frederick Catherwood first came across Maya ruins at Copán, having landed in British Honduras (now Belize). They were astonished at their findings and spent two weeks mapping the site. They surmised that it must have been built by some long-forgotten people, as they could not imagine it was the native Mayans. Stephens was actually able to buy the city of Copan for a sum of $50 and had dreams of floating it down the river and into museums in the United States.\n\nThey went on to Palenque, Quiriguá and Uxmal. They reached Palenque on May 11, 1840 and left in early June. While there, they documented the Temple of the Inscriptions, the Temple of the Cross, the Temple of the Sun and the Temple of the Foliated Cross.\n\nThey continued investigating Maya ruins with a return trip to Yucatán in October 1841. According to Stephens's book about the trip, they visited a total of 44 Mayan sites such as Mayapan, Uxmal, Kabah, the gateway at Labná, Sayil, Xtampak, Chichen Itza, Tulum, and Izamal. In Uxmal, they documented the Governor's House, the Nunnery Quadrangle and the Pyramid of the Magician. Catherwood also drew a famous view of the well at Bolonchén.\n\nCatherwood's drawings and lithographs showed, without question, the Maya to have been the authors of some of the most artistic and intellectual works of pre-Columbian America. Besides large constructions, they produced works of artistic refinement such as stone and plaster sculptures, frescoes, painted pottery and bas-reliefs in wood. As a result of his explorations, Stephens argued convincingly that the Mayans built the ancient Central American cities in contrast to the theory that ethnic groups from European or Asian civilizations had built them.\n\nStephens's books served to inspire Edgar Allan Poe, who reviewed three of Stephens's books for the \"New York Review\" and \"Graham's Magazine\".\n\nAt the time England enjoyed a monopoly over the ocean navigation to and from the United States. Stephens obtained a charter from the state of New York, and incorporated the Ocean Steam Navigation Company. The company acquired two steam ships, the \"Washington\" and the \"Hermann\" which made journeys to Europe.\n\nWhen the Panama Railroad Company was founded in 1849, Stephens was chosen to be Vice President. He visited Panama and New Granada to make arrangements for the laying of the railroad. On his way to Bogotá, the capital of New Granada, he fell off his mule and sustained severe injuries from which he never fully recovered. He returned to the United States, and was appointed President of the railroad. However, he suffered from a disease of the liver, and died on October 13, 1852. He was buried at New York City Marble Cemetery.\n\nStephens is the subject of the following biography: \"Maya Explorer\" by Victor Wolfgang von Hagen, first published in 1947.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "17751248", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17751248", "title": "Kari Tarkiainen", "text": "Kari Tarkiainen\n\nKari Valtteri Tarkiainen (born 14 June 1938 in Helsinki) is a Finnish historian and archivist, who served as the national archivist of Finland 1996–2003. He is a grandson of the scholar Viljo Tarkiainen and his wife, writer Maria Jotuni.\n\nTarkiainen has had a career in the world of archives both in Finland and Sweden. From 1971 he was employed in the Swedish National Archives in Stockholm. He finished his career as archivist in Helsinki as chief of the National Archives of Finland 1996–2003.\n\nTarkiainen became a PhD in 1974 with a dissertation on the view of Russia in Sweden during the early great power era. He is a specialist in medieval history, and has formed the conception of the Finnish reformer Mikael Agricola. Amongst his most important works are a history of Finnish migration to Sweden, \"Finnarnas historia i Sverige 1-2\" (1990–93), and \"Sveriges Österland från forntiden till Gustav Vasa\" (2008), which concerns the central issues of Finland's history, with special focus on the relations between Finnish and Swedish language, economy, settlement, church organisation, administration, and cultural forms. Tarkiainen has also written a biography of \"Paavo Haavikko, modernisternas furste\" (1997).\n\nTarkiainen's wife (née Liitoja) is an Estonian historian.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "12666998", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12666998", "title": "Karol Daniel Kadłubiec", "text": "Karol Daniel Kadłubiec\n\nProf. Dr Hab. Karol Daniel Kadłubiec (born 22 July 1937 in Karpętna) is a Polish ethnographer, folklorist and historian from the Zaolzie region of the Czech Republic. He specializes also in ethnology, history of language and dialectology, and in a studies of culture, folklore and language of Cieszyn Silesia and Zaolzie.\n\nKadłubiec graduated from Polish elementary school in Bystrzyca, Polish gymnasium in Czeski Cieszyn in 1955 and then from Slavic philology at the Charles' University in Prague in 1960. He earned a professor degree in 1994.\n\nHe works at a Pedagogical Institute at the University of Ostrava from 1964 and later worked at the Charles' University in Prague as a head of department of Polish studies and folkloristic. Kadłubiec is a head of Institute for Studies of Polish Ethnic in the Czech Republic at the University of Ostrava from 1990. He was a co-founder of ethnology department at the Silesian University in Cieszyn and co-founder and head of Folkloristic Section of General Committee of PZKO.\n\nKadłubiec is also active member of PZKO (Polish Educational and Cultural Union) and from 1965 is a chairman of MK PZKO Mistrzowice.\n\nHe is author of several books and of about 600 scientific discourses and articles and long-time contributor to \"Zwrot\" magazine.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "25310228", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25310228", "title": "Leawood Pump House", "text": "Leawood Pump House\n\nThe Leawood Pump House (also known as High Peak Pump House) was built near Cromford, Derbyshire, England in 1849 to supply water to the Cromford Canal, built some 50 years previously. It is a Grade II* listed building.\nLocated a little along the canal towpath from High Peak Junction, it stands to a height of on the right bank of the River Derwent, at the end of the Derwent Aqueduct, and has a chimney stack with a cast-iron cap.\n\nThe Watt-type beam engine was designed and erected by Graham and Company of Milton Works, Elsecar, Sheffield. The beam length is , the piston diameter , stroke of and the engine works at 7 strokes per minute. The boilers, replaced in 1900, have a pressure of 40 p.s.i. \n\nWater is drawn from the River Derwent through a tunnel to a reservoir in the basement. It is then lifted and discharged into the canal.\n\nThe immense size of the pump (which can transfer almost four tons of water per stroke and seven strokes a minute, a total of over 39,000 tons of water per 24 hours) is explained by the fact that there were restrictions on removing water from the Derwent river, this being allowed only between 8 p.m. on Saturdays and 8 p.m. on Sundays.\n\nThe pumphouse worked continuously from 1849 until 1944 when the canal closed. It was restored in 1979 by the Cromford Canal Society and is run periodically.\n\n"}
{"id": "3717631", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3717631", "title": "Louise E. du Pont Crowninshield", "text": "Louise E. du Pont Crowninshield\n\nLouise Evelina du Pont Crowninshield (August 3, 1877 – July 11, 1958) was an American heiress and preservationist, who was the great granddaughter of Eleuthère Irénée du Pont, the founder of E. I. du Pont de Nemours and Company.\n\nShe was a daughter of Henry A. du Pont (1838–1926) and Pauline Foster du Pont (1849–1902); her brother was Henry Francis du Pont (1880–1969). She was born, raised, and educated at the family estate, Winterthur, north of Wilmington, Delaware. A debutante whose coming-out party was held in New York City in 1896, she socialized with members of the city's most exclusive families.\n\nIn 1900, Louise du Pont married Francis Boardman Crowninshield (1869–1950), a renowned yacht-racer and expert marksman of the Boston Brahmin Crowninshield family. There were no children by this marriage. The Crowninshields had homes in Marblehead and Boston, Massachusetts; Boca Grande, Florida; and the original du Pont family estate, Eleutherian Mills, north of Wilmington, Delaware.\n\nLouise du Pont Crowninshield actively participated in charitable organizations, horticulture, historic preservation, and collected antiques and hooked rugs. One of Louise du Pont Crowninshield's earliest historic restoration projects was the original du Pont family estate, Eleutherian Mills, where she resided during the spring and fall months. She was a founding trustee of the National Trust for Historic Preservation in 1949 and was vice-chairman of the board in 1953. In recognition of her services to historic preservation, the National Trust instituted an annual award, the Louise Evalina du Pont Crowninshield Award.\n\nIn 1955, President Dwight D. Eisenhower appointed her to the Boston National Historic Sites Commission. She was also involved with historic restoration in Virginia, particularly the Kenmore Association, of which she was a regent. Kenmore was the Fredericksburg, Virginia, home of Fielding Lewis and his wife, Betty Washington Lewis, who was George Washington's sister. Crowninshield often provided financial assistance and artifacts when needed at historic sites. In addition, she was a member or trustee of numerous historical societies, museums, art, and symphony organizations.\n\nShe died on July 11, 1958 in Wilmington, Delaware.\n\nArchival materials relating to Louise E. du Pont Crowninshield are part of the Archives owned by Hagley Museum and Library\nand the Henry Francis DuPont Winterthur Museum, near Wilmington, Delaware.\n\nSee also: National Trust for Historic Preservation. Forum. 2000. \"Louise's Legacy\" by Kim Burdick.\nDelaware Humanities Forum. www.dhf.org. Speakers Bureau.\n\n"}
{"id": "172803", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=172803", "title": "Ludwig Tieck", "text": "Ludwig Tieck\n\nJohann Ludwig Tieck (; ; 31 May 1773 – 28 April 1853) was a German poet, fiction writer, translator, and critic. He was one of the founding fathers of the Romantic movement in the late 18th and early 19th centuries.\n\nTieck was born in Berlin, the son of a rope-maker. His siblings were the sculptor Christian Friedrich Tieck and the poet Sophie Tieck. He was educated at the , where he learned Greek and Latin, as required in most preparatory schools. He also began learning Italian at a very young age, from a grenadier with whom he became acquainted. Through this friendship, Tieck was given a first-hand look at the poor, which could be linked to his work as a Romanticist. He later attended the universities of Halle, Göttingen, and Erlangen. At Göttingen, he studied Shakespeare and Elizabethan drama.\n\nOn returning to Berlin in 1794, Tieck attempted to make a living by writing. He contributed a number of short stories (1795–1798) to the series \"Straussfedern\", published by the bookseller C. F. Nicolai and originally edited by J. K. A. Musäus. He also wrote \"Abdallah\" (1796) and a novel in letters, \"William Lovell\" (3 vols. 1795–1796).\n\nTieck's transition to Romanticism is seen in the series of plays and stories published under the title \"Volksmärchen von Peter Lebrecht\" (3 vols., 1797), a collection containing the fairy tale \"Der blonde Eckbert\", which blends exploration of the paranoiac mind with the realm of the supernatural, and a witty dramatic satire on Berlin literary taste, \"Der gestiefelte Kater\". With his school and college friend Wilhelm Heinrich Wackenroder (1773–1798), he planned the novel \"Franz Sternbalds Wanderungen\" (vols. i–ii. 1798), which with Wackenroder's \"Herzensergiessungen\" (1796), was the first expression of the Romantic enthusiasm for old German art.\n\nIn 1798 Tieck married and in the following year settled in Jena, where he, the two brothers August and Friedrich Schlegel, and Novalis were the leaders of the early Romantic school (also known as Jena Romanticism). His writings between 1798 and 1804 include the satirical drama, \"Prinz Zerbino\" (1799), and \"Romantische Dichtungen\" (2 vols., 1799–1800). The latter contains Tieck's most ambitious dramatic poems, \"Leben und Tod der heiligen Genoveva\", \"Leben und Tod des kleinen Rotkäppchens\", which were followed in 1804 by the \"comedy\" in two parts, \"Kaiser Oktavianus\". These dramas are typical plays of the first Romantic school. Although formless and destitute of dramatic qualities, they show the influence of both Calderón and Shakespeare. \"Kaiser Oktavianus\" is a poetic glorification of the Middle Ages.\n\nIn 1801 Tieck went to Dresden, then lived for a time at Ziebingen near Frankfurt, and spent many months in Italy. In 1803 he published a translation of \"Minnelieder aus der schwäbischen Vorzeit\", then between 1799 and 1804 an excellent version of \"Don Quixote\", and in 1811 two volumes of Elizabethan dramas, \"Altenglisches Theater\". From 1812 to 1817 he collected in three volumes a number of his earlier stories and dramas, under the title \"Phantasus\". In this collection appeared the stories \"Der Runenberg\", \"Die Elfen\", \"Der Pokal\", and the dramatic fairy tale \"Fortunat\".\n\nIn 1817 Tieck visited England in order to collect materials for a work on Shakespeare, which was never finished. In 1819 he settled permanently in Dresden, and from 1825 he was literary adviser to the Court Theatre. His semi-public readings from the dramatic poets gave him a reputation which extended far beyond the capital of the Kingdom of Saxony. The new series of short stories which he began to publish in 1822 also won him a wide popularity. Notable among these are \"Die Gemälde\", \"Die Reisenden\", \"Die Verlobung\", and \"Des Lebens Überfluss\".\n\nMore ambitious and on a wider canvas are the historical or semi-historical novels \"Dichterleben\" (1826), \"Der Aufruhr in den Cevennen\" (1826, unfinished), and \"Der Tod des Dichters\" (1834). \"Der junge Tischlermeister\" (1836; but begun in 1811) is a work written under the influence of Goethe's \"Wilhelm Meister\". His story of \"Vittoria Accorombona\" (1840) was written in the style of the French Romanticists and shows a falling-off.\n\nIn later years Tieck carried on a varied literary activity as a critic (\"Dramaturgische Blätter\", 2 vols., 1825–1826; \"Kritische Schriften\", 2 vols., 1848). He also edited the translation of Shakespeare by August Wilhelm Schlegel, who was assisted by Tieck's daughter Dorothea (1790–1841) and by Wolf Heinrich, Graf von Baudissin (1789–1878); \"Shakespeares Vorschule\" (2 vols., 1823–1829); and the works of Heinrich von Kleist (1826) and of Jakob Michael Reinhold Lenz (1828). In 1841 Friedrich Wilhelm IV of Prussia invited Tieck to Berlin, where he received a pension for his remaining years. He died in Berlin on 28 April 1853.\n\nTieck's importance lay in the readiness with which he adapted himself to the emerging new ideas which arose at the close of the 18th century, as well as his Romantic works, such as \"Der blonde Eckbert\". His importance in German poetry, however, is restricted to his early period. In later years it was as the helpful friend and adviser of others, or as the well-read critic of wide sympathies, that Tieck distinguished himself.\n\nTieck also influenced Richard Wagner's \"Tannhäuser\". It was from \"Phantasus\" that Wagner based the idea of Tannhäuser going to see the Pope and of Elisabeth dying in the song battle.\n\nTieck's \"Schriften\" appeared in twenty volumes (1828–1846), and his \"Gesammelte Novellen\" in twelve (1852–1854). \"Nachgelassene Schriften\" were published in two volumes in 1855. There are several editions of \"Ausgewählte Werke\" by H. Welti (8 vols., 1886–1888); by J. Minor (in Kirschner's \"Deutsche Nationalliteratur\", 144, 2 vols., 1885); by G. Klee (with an excellent biography, 3 vols., 1892), and G. Witkowski (4 vols., 1903) and Marianne Thalmann (4 vols., 1963–66).\n\n\"The Elves\" and \"The Goblet\" were translated by Thomas Carlyle in \"German Romance\" (1827), \"The Pictures\" and \"The Betrothal\" by Bishop Thirlwall (1825). A translation of \"Vittoria Accorombona\" was published in 1845. A translation of \"Des Lebens Überfluss\" (\"Life's Luxuries\", by E. N. Bennett) appeared in \"German Short Stories\" in the Oxford University Press \"World's Classics\" series in 1934, but the wit of the original comes over more strongly in \"The Superfluities of Life. A Tale Abridged from Tieck,\" which appeared anonymously in \"Blackwood's Edinburgh Magazine\" in February 1845. \"The Journey into the Blue Distance\" (\"Das Alte Buch: oder Reise ins Blaue hinein\", 1834). \"The Romance of Little Red Riding Hood\" (1801) was translated by Jack Zipes and included in his book \"The Trials and Tribulations of Little Red Riding Hood.\"\n\nTieck's biggest influence was 16th-century Italian poet Torquato Tasso, who is featured in Tieck's novel, \"Vittoria Accorombona\", as a secondary character.\n\nTieck's Letters have been published at various locations:\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "14417898", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14417898", "title": "Madala Panji", "text": "Madala Panji\n\nMadala Panji (Odia \"ମାଦଳା ପାଞ୍ଜି\") is a chronicle of the Jagannath Temple, Puri, Odisha, India. It describes the historical events of Odisha related to Jagannath and the Jagannatha Temple. The \"Madala Panji\" dates from the 12th century.\n\nWhile writing Odia history, historians like Sir W.W.Hunter and Andrew Stirling considered the facts related in Madala Panji as a base. The Madala Panji was traditionally written on a year-to-year basis. On Bijaya-Dashami day, the Karanas (official history writers of Puri, a caste of Odisha, involved in keeping the chronicle. This ritual is cited as a proof that the tradition of keeping this chronicle began with Odia king Anantavarman Chodaganga Dev (1078–1150) himself. There are some, like Dr. Harekrushna Mahatab, Dr.Nilakantha Dash and Dr. Krushna Chandra Panigrahi who hold that the Panji dates from the reign of Ramachandra Deva I who re-established the worship of Lord Jagannatha after Kalapahad said to have destroyed it. The arguments are complex, but it is likely that much of the early record was indeed lost in the period that followed Kala Pahad and was rewritten in a fashion that mixed legend with history.\n\nAccording to the tradition, Chodaganga created 24 families of Karanas to preserve the temple records. Of these, five were entrusted with the writing and preservation of the Madala Panji. They are:\n\nIn subsequent stage, due to the bulky size of Madala Panji, its content covering different dimensions related to temple management, it was divided into four parts:\n\nThere are also five different categories of Panjis. No one has seen them all.\n\nBesides the Madala, there were other Karans who wrote regional chronicles, known as Chakadas. \"All the Kadatas and Chakadas taken together will be about a cartload.\"\n\nMadala Panji language is Odia and was recorded in Odia and Telugu script, preserved in the Manuscript Library in Madras, which speaks about the story regarding image of Nila Madhaba or Lord Jagannath of Udra desa, as Odisha was known in Middle Ages. It seems to have re-written during 16th century when the king of Khurda had newly installed the images after destruction made by Kalapahad, Muslim general of Nawab of Bangal.\n\nA thorough study of the Madala Panji using all the different source materials has apparently not yet been done.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "49210609", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49210609", "title": "Muhammad Ardabili", "text": "Muhammad Ardabili\n\nMuhammad Ardabili (Persian: محمد ابن علی اردبیلی) was an eminent Shia transmitter of Muslim tradition in seventeenth century.\n\nHis complete name was Muhammad Son of Ali Ardabili. there is little information about his life and personality. He was originally from Ardabil but most of his life, it seems, passed in Baghdad and Najaf in Iraq.\n\nHe had eminent masters such as Jafar Ibn Abdiah Ibn Ibrahim Kamarehei who was dominant in religious fields and disciplines. The others are like Ali Ibn Ahmad Ibn Kamal Addin Hosein Astarabadi. He travelled also to Isfahan but its history is not clear. His importance is because of writing the book of Jami Al Rowat (compilations of narrators) in the subject of transmitters of traditions (Ilm-e- Rijal).\n\nCompilations of narrators is one of the first and important shia books in Ilm-e-rijal. He tries to describe the characters of transmitters of traditions in their classes and evaluate them in accordance to authentic and inauthentic of transmitters. In fact this book could considers as a gloss on the Astarabadi's Talkhis and other books like Montajeb Addin's Al fehrest. This book for a while counted as the original resource among shia jurists. This book has been written during 25 years and Shah Soleiman given command to produce another transcription of it.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "25702553", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25702553", "title": "Muhammad Machasin", "text": "Muhammad Machasin\n\nDr. Muhammad Machasin is a professor of history of Islamic culture at the State Islamic University (UIN) Sunan Kalijaga in Yogyakarta, Indonesia. as well as a director of the Islamic Higher Education in Indonesia \nHe has been actively promoting interfaith dialogue and is a member of the board of the Asian Council on Religion and Peace.\n\n"}
{"id": "13918608", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13918608", "title": "Nikolaos Platon", "text": "Nikolaos Platon\n\nNikolaos Platon (Greek , Anglicised \"Nicolas Platon\"; – ) was a renowned Greek archaeologist. He discovered the Minoan palace of Zakros on Crete.\n\nHe put forward one of the two systems of relative chronology used by archaeologists for Minoan history. It is based on the development of the architectural complexes known as \"palaces\" at Knossos, Phaistos, Malia, and Kato Zakros, and divides the Minoan period into Prepalatial, Protopalatial, Neopalatial, and Post-palatial periods. The other system is based on pottery styles, as suggested by Arthur Evans.\n"}
{"id": "24024400", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24024400", "title": "Nisibis (East Syriac Ecclesiastical Province)", "text": "Nisibis (East Syriac Ecclesiastical Province)\n\nThe Metropolitanate of Nisibis was an East Syriac metropolitan province of the Church of the East, between the fifth and seventeenth centuries. The ecclesiastical province of Nisibis (Syriac: Nisibin, , often abbreviated to Soba, ) had a number of suffragan dioceses at different periods in its history, including Arzun, Beth Rahimaï, Beth Qardu (later renamed Tamanon), Beth Zabdaï, Qube d’Arzun, Balad, Shigar (Sinjar), Armenia, Beth Tabyathe and the Kartawaye, Harran and Callinicus (Raqqa), Maiperqat (with Amid and Mardin), Reshaïna, Qarta and Adarma, Qaimar and Hesna d'Kifa. Aoustan d'Arzun and Beth Moksaye were also suffragan dioceses in the fifth century.\n\nIn 363 the Roman emperor Jovian was obliged to cede Nisibis and five neighbouring districts to Persia to extricate the defeated army of his predecessor Julian from Persian territory. The Nisibis region, after nearly fifty years of rule by Constantine and his Christian successors, may well have contained more Christians than the entire Sassanian empire, and this Christian population was absorbed into the Church of the East in a single generation. The impact of the cession of Nisibis on the demography of the Church of the East was so marked that the province of Nisibis was ranked second among the five metropolitan provinces established at the synod of Isaac in 410, a precedence apparently conceded without dispute by the bishops of the three older Persian provinces relegated to a lower rank. The metropolitan of Nisibis ranked below the metropolitan of Ilam, but above the metropolitans of Maishan, Adiabene and Beth Garmaï.\n\nThe bishop of Nisibis was recognised in Canon XXI of the synod of Isaac as 'metropolitan of Arzun, of Qardu, of Beth Zabdaï, of Beth Rahimaï, of Beth Moksaye, and of the bishops to be found there', and the bishops Daniel of Arzun, Samuel 'of Arzun for Baita d'Aoustan', Daniel of Beth Moksaye, and Abraham of Beth Rahimaï were confirmed as his suffragans.\n\nThe bishop of Nisibis was recognised in 410 as the metropolitan of Arzun (), Qardu (), Beth Zabdaï (), Beth Rahimaï () and Beth Moksaye (). These were the Syriac names for Arzanene, Corduene, Zabdicene, Rehimene and Moxoene, the five districts ceded by Rome to Persia in 363. The metropolitan diocese of Nisibis () and the suffragan dioceses of Arzun, Qardu and Beth Zabdaï were to enjoy a long history, but Beth Rahimaï is not mentioned again, while Beth Moksaye is not mentioned after 424, when its bishop Atticus (probably, from his name, a Roman) subscribed to the acts of the synod of Dadisho. Besides the bishop of Arzun, a bishop of 'Aoustan d’Arzun' (plausibly identified with the district of Ingilene) also attended these two synods, and his diocese was also assigned to the province of Nisibis. The diocese of Aoustan d'Arzun survived into the sixth century, but is not mentioned after 554. \n\nDuring the fifth and sixth centuries three new dioceses in the province of Nisibis were founded in Persian territory, in Beth Arabaye (the hinterland of Nisibis, between Mosul and the Tigris and Khabur rivers) and in the hill country to the northeast of Arzun. By 497 a diocese had been established at Balad (the modern Eski Mosul) on the Tigris, which persisted into the fourteenth century. By 563 there was also a diocese for Shigar (Sinjar), deep inside Beth Arabaye, and by 585 a diocese for 'Beth Tabyathe and the Kartawaye', the country to the west of Lake Van inhabited by the Kartaw Kurds. \n\nThe famous School of Nisibis was an important seminary and theological academy of the Church of the East during the late Sassanian period, and in the last two centuries of Sassanian rule generated a remarkable outpouring of East Syriac theological scholarship.\n\nProbably during the Umayyad period, the East Syriac diocese of Armenia was attached to the province of Nisibis. The bishop Artashahr of Armenia was present at the synod of Dadisho in 424, but the diocese was not assigned to a metropolitan province. In the late thirteenth century Armenia was certainly a suffragan diocese of the province of Nisibis, and its dependency probably went back to the seventh or eighth century. The bishops of Armenia appear to have sat at the town of Halat (Ahlat) on the northern shore of Lake Van.\n\nThe Arab conquest allowed the East Syriacs to move into western Mesopotamia and establish communities in Damascus and other towns that had formerly been in Roman territory, where they lived alongside much larger Syriac Orthodox, Armenian and Melkite communities. Some of these western communities were placed under the jurisdiction of the East Syriac metropolitans of Damascus, but others were attached to the province of Nisibis. The latter included a diocese for Harran and Callinicus (Raqqa), first attested in the eighth century and last mentioned towards the end of the eleventh century, and a diocese at Maiperqat, first mentioned at the end of the eleventh century, whose bishops were also responsible for the East Syrian communities in Amid and Mardin. Eleventh- and thirteenth-century lists of dioceses in the province of Nisibis also mention a diocese for the Syrian town of Reshaïna (Ras al-Ain). Reshaïna is a plausible location for an East Syriac diocese at this period, but none of its bishops are known. \n\nChanges in the formal and informal titles borne by the metropolitans of Nisibis reflect the shifts in the province's centre of gravity over the centuries. In 497 the metropolitan Hosea of Nisibis was styled 'metropolitan of the country of Beth Arabaye'. In the eleventh century the metropolitan Abdisho Ibn Arid of Nisibis, who became patriarch in 1074, was styled 'metropolitan bishop of Soba [Nisibis] and Beth Nahrin [Mesopotamia]'. At the end of the thirteenth century the celebrated East Syriac writer Abdisho Bar Brikha, himself metropolitan of Nisibis, referred loosely to his province as 'Soba (Nisibis) and Mediterranean Syria'. Few Mesopotamian or Syrian dioceses still existed at this period, however, and Abdisho was normally styled 'metropolitan of Nisibis and Armenia'. As far as is known, the title 'metropolitan of Nisibis and Armenia' was used by all of Abdisho's successors until 1610, when the East Syriac metropolitan province of Nisibis was abolished. \n\nAbdisho Bar Brikha listed thirteen suffragan dioceses in the province of Nisibis at the end of the thirteenth century, in the following order: Arzun, Qube, Beth Rahimaï, Balad, Shigar, Qardu, Tamanon, Beth Zabdaï, Halat, Harran, Amid, Reshaïna and 'Adormiah' (Qarta and Adarma). It has been convincingly argued that Abdisho was giving a conspectus of dioceses in the province of Nisibis at various periods in its history rather than an authentic list of late-thirteenth century dioceses, and it is unlikely that the dioceses of Qube, Beth Rahimaï, Harran and Reshaïna still existed at this period.\n\nA diocese was founded around the middle of the thirteenth century to the north of the Tur Abdin for the town of Hesna d'Kifa, perhaps in response to East Syriac immigration to the towns of the Tigris plain during the Mongol period. At the same time, a number of older dioceses may have ceased to exist. The dioceses of Qaimar and Qarta and Adarma are last mentioned towards the end of the twelfth century, and the diocese of Tamanon in 1265, and it is not clear whether they persisted into the fourteenth century. The only dioceses in the province of Nisibis definitely in existence at the end of the thirteenth century were Armenia (whose bishops sat at Halat on the northern shore of Lake Van), Shigar, Balad, Arzun and Maiperqat.\n\nThe see of Nisibis was founded in 300.\n\n\nEast Syriac bishops of Arzun (near present-day Siirt) are attested between the fifth and thirteenth centuries. A twelfth-century reference to the diocese of 'Arzun and Beth Dlish' indicates that the bishops of Arzun may have sat at Bitlis. \n\nThe bishop Daniel of Arzun was confirmed as a suffragan bishop of the metropolitan Hosea of Nisibis in Canon XXI of the synod of Isaac in 410, and was among the signatories of its acts. He was also among the signatories of the acts of the synod of Dadisho in 424.\n\nThe bishop Job of Arzun was among the signatories of the acts of the synod of Babaï in 497.\n\nThe bishop Gabriel Ibn al-Shammas of Arzun was an unsuccessful candidate in the patriarchal election of 1012. His successful rival, the patriarch Yohannan VI, appointed him metropolitan of Mosul on 19 November 1012, immediately after his own consecration as patriarch.\n\nThe bishop Giwargis of Arzun was consecrated metropolitan of Nisibis by the patriarch Abdisho II shortly after his own consecration in 1074.\n\nAn unnamed bishop of Arzun was present at the consecration of the patriarch Bar Sawma in 1134.\n\nThe bishop Emmanuel of Arzun was present at the consecration of the patriarch Makkikha II in 1257.\n\nThe bishop Shemon of Arzun was present at the consecration of the patriarch Yahballaha III in 1281.\n\nThe bishop Samuel 'of Arzun for Baita d'Aoustan' was confirmed as a suffragan bishop of the metropolitan Hosea of Nisibis in Canon XXI of the synod of Isaac in 410, and was among the signatories of its acts.\n\nThe bishop Yohannan of 'Aoustan d'Arzun' was among the signatories of the acts of the synod of Dadisho in 424.\n\nThe bishop 'Natum', probably Nathan, of 'Arzun d'Beth d'Aoustan' adhered by letter to the acts of the synod of Joseph in 554.\nThe bishop Miles of Qardu was among the signatories of the acts of the synod of Dadisho in 424.\n\nThe bishop Bar Sawma of Qardu was among the signatories of the acts of the synod of Joseph in 554.\n\nThe bishop Marutha of Qardu was among the signatories of the acts of the synod of Gregory in 605.\n\nThe bishop Theodore of Qardu was appointed metropolitan of Ilam by the patriarch Yohannan III immediately after his consecration on 15 July 893.\nThe bishop Yohannan of Beth Zabdai (Gazarta) was among the signatories of the acts of the synod of Babaï in 497.\n\nThe bishop Ishoyahb of Gazarta is mentioned together with the patriarch Abraham III (906–37) in the colophon of an East Syriac manuscript of 912.\n\nThe bishop Ishoyahb of Gazarta was present at the consecration of the patriarch Abdisho II in 1074.\n\nAn unnamed bishop of Gazarta was present at the consecration of the patriarch Bar Sawma in 1134.\n\nThe bishop Daniel of Beth Moksaye was confirmed as a suffragan bishop of the metropolitan Hosea of Nisibis in Canon XXI of the synod of Isaac in 410.\n\nThe bishop Atticus of Beth Moksaye was among the signatories of the acts of the synod of Dadisho in 424.\n\nThe bishop Abraham of Beth Rahimaï was confirmed as a suffragan bishop of the metropolitan Hosea of Nisibis in Canon XXI of the synod of Isaac in 410.\n\nThe bishop Gabriel of Qube d'Arzun was among the signatories of the acts of the synod of Timothy I in 790.\n\nThe bishop Abdisho of Tamanon was present at the consecration of the patriarch Abdisho II in 1074.\n\nThe bishop Abdisho of Tamanon was present at the consecration of the patriarch Eliya II in 1111.\n\nThe bishop Brikhisho of Tamanon was present at the consecration of the patriarch Denha I in 1265.\n\nThe bishop Gregory the Alchemist was bishop of Harran during the reign of the patriarch Pethion (731–40).\n\nThe patriarch Sabrisho II (831–5) was consecrated bishop of Harran by the metropolitan Yohannan of Nisibis, and became metropolitan of Damascus during the reign of Timothy I (780–823).\n\nThe bishop Yaqob \"of Harran and Callinicus\" (Raqqa) is mentioned together with the patriarch Yohannan III (893–9) in the dating formula of an East Syriac manuscript copied in the monastery of Mar Gabriel near Harran by the deacon Babai in 899.\n\nThe bishop Yohannan, bishop of Ukbara when Elijah of Nisibis completed his \"Chronography\" in 1018/19, was formerly bishop of Harran.\n\nThe bishop Eliya 'of Raqah (Raqqa)' was present at the consecration of the patriarch Makkikha I in 1092.\n\nThe bishop Eliya, metropolitan of Damascus when Elijah of Nisibis completed his \"Chronography\" in 1018/19, was formerly bishop of Maiperqat.\n\nThe bishop Yohannan of Maiperqat was present at the consecration of the patriarch Makkikha II in 1257.\n\nThe bishop Ishodnah of Maiperqat was present at the consecration of the patriarch Denha I in 1265 (as bishop 'of Mardin'). He was also present at the consecration of Yahballaha III in 1281 (as 'bishop of Miyafariqin').\n\nThe bishops Hawah and Shubhalisho of Balad were among the signatories of the acts of the synod of Babaï in 497.\n\nThe bishop Yazdgird of Balad was among the signatories of the acts of the synod of Joseph in 554.\n\nThe future patriarch Ishoyahb II of Gdala (628–45) was appointed bishop of Balad after the death of the bishop Quriaqos of Balad.\n\nThe bishop Sabrisho of Balad was appointed metropolitan of Nisibis by the patriarch Hnanisho I after the death of the metropolitan Qamisho, probably in 697.\n\nAn unnamed bishop of Balad was among the bishops who witnessed a retraction of the Messallian heresy made by the priest Nestorius of the monastery of Mar Yozadaq in 790 before his consecration as bishop of Beth Nuhadra.\n\nThe monk Quriaqos of the monastery of Beth ʿAbe, a native of the town of Gbilta in the Tirhan district, became bishop of Balad at an unknown date in the second half of the eighth century or the first half of the ninth century.\n\nThe bishop Yohannan of Balad was appointed metropolitan of Merv by the patriarch Sargis (860–72).\n\nThe bishop Eliya of Balad was appointed metropolitan of Bardaa by the patriarch Mari (987–99).\n\nThe bishop Sabrisho of Balad was present at the consecration of the patriarch Abdisho II (1074–90), and was later consecrated metropolitan of Ilam by the same patriarch.\n\nAn unnamed bishop of Balad was present at the consecration of the patriarch Bar Sawma in 1134.\n\nThe bishop Shemon 'of Balad and al-Jaslona (Gaslona)' was present at the consecration of the patriarch Yahballaha III in 1281.\n\nThe bishop Shemon of Balad was present at the consecration of the patriarch Timothy II in 1318.\n\nThe Diocese of Shigar was founded in the sixth century, probably to counter the growing influence of the Jacobites in the Sinjar region. The full name of the diocese was Shigar and Beth Arabaye, and it covered the desert region to the north of Sinjar, where there were several Nestorian monasteries. Six Nestorian bishops of Shigar are attested between the sixth and the fourteenth centuries. The first of these bishops, Bawai, is mentioned in 563. The last, Yohannan, was present at the consecration of the patriarch Timothy II in 1318. \n\nIt is not clear when the diocese of Shigar came to an end. The Shigar region seems to have had a small Nestorian community up to the seventeenth century, and may even have had a bishop from time to time. A metropolitan 'Glanan Imech' (possibly Maranemmeh), of 'Sciugar' is mentioned in the report of 1607, and may have been a bishop of Shigar. According to a Yazidi tradition, the last Nestorian 'metropolitan' of Sinjar died around 1660, and the region's few remaining Nestorian Christians become Yazidis. It is difficult to say whether there is any truth in this tradition.\n\nThe bishop Klilisho of 'Beth Tabyathe and the Kartawaye' was among the signatories of the acts of the synod of Ishoyahb I in 585.\n\nThe diocese of Qarta and Adarma was listed as a suffragan diocese in the province of Nisibis in the \"Mukhtasar\" of 1007/8, and a bishop Mushe of Qarta and Adarma is attested during the reign of the catholicus Eliya II (1111–32). A ritual for the consecration of the bishop of Qarta and Adarma has survived in the works of the patriarch Eliya III (1176–90). Finally, a manuscript was copied in 1186 in the monastery of Mar Awgin near Nisibis for the village of Tel Mahmad 'in the diocese of Qarta'. Its colophon mentions that the manuscript was copied in the time of the patriarch Eliya III and the metropolitan Yahballaha of Nisibis, providing further confirmation that Qarta was a diocese in the province of Nisibis.\n\nQarta has been identified by Fiey with the monastery of Mar Gabrona and Mar Shmona (Arabic: Dayr al-Qara) near the Lailah Dagh, twenty kilometres to the southeast of Gazarta, and Adarma with the small town of Adarma, seventy kilometres east of Nisibis, near the modern Tel Rmelan al-Kabir. The seat of the bishops of Qarta and Adarma may have been the monastery of Gabrona and Shmona, mentioned in the colophons of manuscripts of 1213/4 and 1217/8.\n\nThe Nestorian diocese of Armenia, whose bishops sat in the town of Halat (Ahlat) on the northern shore of Lake Van, is attested between the fifth and fourteenth centuries. In the fifth century the diocese of Halat was not assigned to a metropolitan province, but was later included in the province of Nisibis, probably shortly after the Arab conquest. The patriarch Timothy I created a metropolitan province for Armenia, presumably by raising the status of the diocese of Halat. By the second half of the eleventh century Halat was once again a suffragan diocese of the province of Nisibis. By the thirteenth century the jurisdiction of the bishops of Halat included the towns of Van and Wastan.\n\nAn unnamed bishop of Qaimar was present at the consecration of the patriarch Bar Sawma in 1134.\n\nThe bishop Sabrisho of Qaimar was transferred to the diocese of Kashkar by the patriarch Eliya III (1176–90).\n\nA diocese was founded around the middle of the thirteenth century to the north of the Tur Abdin for the town of Hesna d'Kifa.\n\nThe bishop Eliya of Hesna d'Kifa was present at the enthronement of Makkikha II in 1257.\n\nThe bishop Emmanuel of Hesna d’Kifa was present at the consecration of the patriarch Yahballaha III in 1281.\n\nThe unperfected bishop Ibn Fadala, 'guardian of the throne of Nisibis' and bishop of an unnamed diocese in the province of Nisibis, was present together with the metropolitan Yohannan of Nisibis at the consecration of the patriarch Abdisho III in 1139. He was required to proclaim the patriarch's name in the traditional ceremony in the church of Mar Pethion, 'because all the bishops of the great eparchy [Beth Aramaye] had died, and their thrones were vacant; something which had never happened before'.\n\n"}
{"id": "47382607", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47382607", "title": "Ooni Ademilu", "text": "Ooni Ademilu\n\nOoni Ademilu was the 27th Ooni of Ife, a paramount traditional ruler of Ile Ife, the ancestral home of the Yorubas. He succeeded Ooni Larunnka and was succeeded by \nOoni Omogbogbo.\n"}
{"id": "11850256", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11850256", "title": "Operation Dawn 3", "text": "Operation Dawn 3\n\nOperation Dawn 3 or Operation Valfajr-3 was Iran's worst defeat out of all the Dawn operations. 180,000 Iranian troops participated in this attack but withering Iraqi firepower in support of deeply entrenched troops slaughtered the advancing Iranians. Although Iranian troops were highly motivated, they were poorly trained and equipped for this battle. For Iran the operation was a disaster.\n\nThe Iraqis struck back by emerging from their trenches to counterattack into Iran and capture Mehran, for the second time. \nThe Iranians attempted to further exploit activities in the north after Operation Dawn 2 on 30 July 1983. Iran saw an opportunity to sweep away Iraqi forces controlling the roads between the Iranian controlled mountain border towns of Mehran, Dehloran and Elam. Iraq conducted airstrikes against 50,000 Iranian forces lodged in mountainous terrain, exhausting themselves attempting to dislodge the Iranians. Realising they needed to alter their tactics, Iraq equipped attack helicopters with chemical warheads; while ineffective, it demonstrated both the Iraqi general staff's and Saddam's increasing interest in using chemical weapons. In the end, in total 17,000 soldiers had lost their lives,[clarification needed] with no gain for either country.[73]\n\n"}
{"id": "19049413", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19049413", "title": "Pompeian era", "text": "Pompeian era\n\nThe Pompeian Era was a calendar era used by Hellenistic cities in Roman Palestine, in particular the cities of the Decapolis. The calendar counted the years from the region's conquest by the Roman general Pompey in 63 BCE. Many of these cities had been self-governing \"poleis\" before the Jewish Hasmoneans had conquered them in the 2nd century BCE. The Romans restored their self-governing status, so the conquest amounted to a \"new foundation\" of the cities, and they made that date the epochal year of their calendars. Some other nearby cities, such as Philadelphia, adopted the era even though they had never been under Hasmonean rule.\n\nWhen archaeologists find Pompeian dates on a city's coins and inscriptions, they use them as evidence of the city's membership in the Decapolis league. However, some cities that ancient writers listed in the Decapolis did not use Pompeian dates. In particular, Damascus continued to reckon dates using the Seleucid era.\n\nThe region continued to use the Pompeian era during the Byzantine period, long after the term \"Decapolis\" had fallen out of use. The calendar was used even after the Muslim conquest of Syria in the 7th century CE. A church in Khilda, near Philadelphia (Amman), is inscribed with the Pompeian year 750, or 687 CE, several years after the Muslim conquest.\n\n"}
{"id": "52833393", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52833393", "title": "Prompt launch", "text": "Prompt launch\n\nPrompt-launch status and delayed launch status are generic classifications of combat readiness applied to describe nuclear-armed missiles.\n\nPrompt-launch, colloquially known as \"hair trigger alert\", is a state of combat readiness during which nuclear-armed missiles can be launched immediately upon receipt of a firing order, with no or minimal preparations.\n\nKeeping weapons systems at a prompt-launch status allows a nation-state to launch on warning, thereby increasing the likelihood it could successfully retaliate against an attack, or initiate a nuclear first strike without alerting an enemy. Even for states that have proscribed launch on warning or first strike, prompt launch may help guarantee that nuclear-armed missiles which themselves have survived a first strike could actually be fired in a timely manner before being destroyed in follow-on, \"mop-up\" attacks.\n\nDuring delayed launch status, nuclear-armed missiles require some type of preparation prior to firing, such as fueling, warhead mounting, or the manual removal of static launch barriers.\n\nIn nuclear warfighting strategy, weapons kept at delayed launch status are at risk of being destroyed in their silos in the event of a nuclear first strike by an adversary. Even if weapons survive a first strike, a nation's command and control system may collapse by the time they are readied for firing. A 1993 analysis of future improvements in U.S. command and control predicted the United States government might only be able to continue operating for a few hours after an initial attack and would be unable to manage a \"protracted\" nuclear war, rendering surviving weapons kept in delayed launch status useless.\n\nProponents of keeping some or all of a nation's nuclear deterrent at delayed alert status note several benefits, including decreased risk of accidental launch and minimized cost of crewing.\n\nSubmarine-launched ballistic missiles (SLBMs), when deployed aboard ballistic missile submarines, are generally not vulnerable to an enemy's own weapons and may be kept at delayed launch status without risking their future launch potential. However, methods for keeping ICBMs at a delayed launch status, such as warhead-missile separation or placing static launch barriers on silo doors, may not be possible in the case of SLBMs due to the nature of submarine-deployment. Several methods have been proposed by which SLBMs could be kept at a delayed launch status, such as deploying ballistic missile submarines in remote oceanic locations out-of-range of the nation's primary adversary.\n\n"}
{"id": "53047437", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53047437", "title": "Robert F. Barkowski", "text": "Robert F. Barkowski\n\nRobert F. Barkowski (born 29 March 1963 in Zielona Góra) is a Polish writer, author of history books in Polish and German. He spent his childhood, school years, early university years and first employment in Gdańsk. Since the late 1980s he has been living in Berlin. His works are mainly focused on history of Europe in the Middle Ages.\n\nCooperation's with German publishing houses (Stroemfeld Verlag, Parthas Verlag, form+zweck, viceversaverlag,\nDeutscher Kunstverlag, vorwärts buch) as an author, editor, translator and publisher, as well as Polish publishing house Bellona as an author.\n\nFor years he is engaged in promoting Polish literature, culture and knowledge about Poland in Germany. On 11 May 2016 he received the medal of honour \"For Merits for Polish Culture\" by the minister of culture and education.\n\n"}
{"id": "23507886", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23507886", "title": "Sandra Bloodworth", "text": "Sandra Bloodworth\n\nSandra Bloodworth is a labour historian and socialist activist, based in Melbourne, Australia. She has been involved in radical politics since the 1970s, where she has played roles in the women's, Aboriginal, anti-uranium mining and trade union movements. She is one of the founding members of the Trotskyist organisation Socialist Alternative, in which she plays a leading role. She is also the editor of \"Marxist Left Review\" as well as having authored several books from a Marxist perspective on the Russian Revolution, the global financial crisis, women's struggles, working class resistance in the Middle East and Australian imperialism.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "44891329", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44891329", "title": "Scipio Kennedy", "text": "Scipio Kennedy\n\nScipio Kennedy (c. 1694–1774) was a slave taken as a child from Guinea in West Africa. After being purchased at the age of five or six by Captain Andrew Douglas of Mains, he served as a slave under his daughter, Lady Jean, wife of Sir John, the 2nd Baronet Kennedy of Culzean in Ayrshire. He was granted a manumission (freedom from slavery) in 1725, but continued to work for the Kennedy family and was given land on the estate. He married in 1728 and had at least eight children. At least one living descendant is known from the West of Scotland and has published the story of his ancestor in a Scottish national newspaper.\n\nThe commercial success of the slave-worked plantations of the late seventeenth century led to a fashion for Scottish families of the gentry class to keep black African servants. Merchants importing goods from the Caribbean and Americas made regular contact with slave ships and some were \"redeemed\" (purchased) for domestic service.\n\nMen and boys were more likely than women and girls to be taken into service, often in highly visible roles such as page boys or footmen. They might be given pet names, or names that sarcastically poked fun at their powerlessness, such as \"Caesar\". Their lives were often much easier than that of their counterparts in the New World plantations, and they were often given an education so that they could read and write. They were also expected to become Christians and therefore after their baptism, they became recognised as having a soul. By the end of the eighteenth century, they were seen as equal human beings under the law.\n\nIn about the year 1700, when Scipio was aged five or six, he was captured in West Africa and taken onto a slave ship in the area known as the Gulf of Guinea. Given the normal route that these ships took, it is likely that he was transported to an island in the Caribbean before being redeemed by Andrew Douglas of Mains (which is near Milngavie in Dumbartonshire) and transported to Scotland in 1702. Douglas would probably have chosen the name Scipio, whose namesake Scipio Africanus served the Roman Empire, defeating the numerically superior forces of Hannibal in the Punic Wars. \nDouglas had a daughter, Jean, who married John Kennedy in 1705, and Scipio moved to Culzean with them. During this time Scipio learned to read, write and also some textile manufacture. In March 1711, John Kennedy assumed the title of Baronet Kennedy of Culzean from his father, the first Baronet.\n\nScipio's manumission document is held at the National Archives of Scotland. It is dated 1725 and grants Scipio the freedom to take employment elsewhere. The document records the \"clothing, maintenance and education with more than ordinary kindness\" already given to Scipio by the Kennedy family. It also details the terms of his further employment by them in a nineteen-year breakable contract, to be rewarded with \"the sum of twelve pounds Scots money yearly besides my share of the drink money\". The document is signed by John Kennedy and Scipio.\n\nIn 1728 Scipio was recorded as having fathered a daughter, Elizabeth, by fornication with Margaret Gray. This would have been considered a scandalous event within the parish. Scipio married Margaret later that year and the couple had seven further children.\n\nAn estate map was drawn up in the 1750s by John Foulis of Redburn, a copy of which is kept in Culzean Castle. The map shows a building on a piece of land about 800 metres from the castle, near to the current walled garden, and it is overwritten with the word \"Sipios\". The house cost £90 to build when new, and was probably an impressive building made of stone. The area of the grounds where the house once stood was excavated in 2007; some artifacts were found during the excavation which may have been Scipio's personal property.\n\nJean Kennedy's will dated 1751, records the gift from her estate \"to Scipio Kennedy my old servant, the sum of ten pounds sterling\". As this figure is of a similar order to the amount given to each of her grandchildren (a third each of £40), this seems to show that Scipio was considered to be part of the Kennedy family.\n\nIn Kirkoswald Old Church graveyard, there is a stone commemorating the life of Scipio, erected by one of his sons. The stone does not explicitly say that Scipio is buried in that place, but that his son is \"also\" buried there. The stone reads:\nThe text at the bottom reads \"1 length and 1 breadth\" and is not part of the inscription, but is to define the burial plot.\n\nSome authors have raised the question of Scipio's descendants. In May 2012, \"The Scotsman\" published an article written by Jonathan Sharp, which details his personal research into his family history. He traced his lineage back through to one of Scipio's daughters, Elizabeth Kennedy in Kirkoswald, and thence to Scipio himself.\n"}
{"id": "23229405", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23229405", "title": "Sulcard", "text": "Sulcard\n\nSulcard (floruit \"c\". 1080) was a Benedictine monk at St. Peter's, Westminster Abbey, and the author of the first history of the abbey.\n\nLittle is known of Sulcard, whose unusual name may reflect either Anglo-Saxon or Norman parentage. His entrance into the monastery may be dated to the 1050s and it is possible that he was previously attached to the cathedral priory at Rochester, which receives a noticeable degree of attention in his work.\n\nThe sole work which Sulcard is known to have produced is the so-called \"Prologus de Construccione Westmonasterii\" (“Prologue concerning the Building of Westminster”), dedicated to Abbot Vitalis of Bernay (\"c\". 1076—?1085) and hence datable to about 1080. It relates the history of the abbey, beginning in the time of Mellitus, bishop of London (604—17), with the foundation of its first church on what was then Thorney Island by a wealthy Londoner and his wife. It concludes with the dedication of a new church erected by King Edward the Confessor (r. 1042—1066) for the monastery. In the dedication to Vitalis, Sulcard writes that he intended his work to serve as a ‘commemorative book’ (\"codex memorialis\") for his house. He was primarily interested in promoting the cult of St. Peter, the abbey’s patron saint, who is said to have miraculously appeared in the early 7th century to dedicate the church in person. Two copies of the history are extant, the earliest being a chartulary from Winchester (\"c\". 1300), BL, Cotton MS Faustina A.iii, fols. 11r—16v. The other copy is in BL, Cotton MS Titus A.viii, fols. 2r–5v. The title is not contemporary, but derives from the heading in the former chartulary, to which it serves as a prologue.\n\nApart from relating local traditions about St. Peter's marvellous involvement, the narrative of Sulcard’s \"Prologus\" is relatively free of embroidery. It is valuable for casting some light on the memory of Edward the Confessor within a few decades after the Conquest. He drew upon the anonymous \"Vita Ædwardi Regis\" (\"Life of King Edward\"), at least Book I, which survives only in a later revision, and so bears testimony to its existence no later than 1084/1085. Sulcard's copy may have been the same text that was used by Osbert de Clare in \"c\". 1138 and by the English historian Richard of Cirencester in the 14th century. Unlike Osbert de Clare, who used the \"Prologus\" and reworked Edward’s \"Vita\" in \"c\". 1138, Sulcard ascribes no miracles to Edward, suggesting that Westminster had not yet seen an active royal cult. Edward's role in the \"Prologus\" is small by comparison, even if he is remembered as a magnificent ruler, as in the account of his death \"when not only England but also all other neighbouring kingdoms gave way to tears\".\n\nA critical edition of the text based primarily on MS Cotton Faustina A.iii was published in 1964 by Bernard W. Scholz. Portions of the text which are relevant to the \"Vita Ædwardi Regis\" have been edited and translated by Frank Barlow.\n\nSulcard was later said to have been awarded the privilege of burial in the abbey’s cloister. At the instigation of Henry III (r. 1216—1272), his remains were translated to the newly built chapter house of the abbey. The \"Prologus\" continued to reach an audience throughout the Middle Ages and was extensively used by the monk John Flete (d. 1466) for his own \"History of Westminster Abbey\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "56994180", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56994180", "title": "Timeline of independent radio in the United Kingdom", "text": "Timeline of independent radio in the United Kingdom\n\nThis is a timeline of the development of independent radio in the UK.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4115785", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4115785", "title": "Uwe Topper", "text": "Uwe Topper\n\nUwe Topper (born 1940) is a German amateur researcher and author of books about historic, ethnographic and anthropological subjects.\n\nIn 1977 Topper published \"Das Erbe der Giganten\" (\"The Legacy of the Giants\"), a book about the prehistory of Spain and the Western Mediterranean basin. The main thesis interpretes the remnant of very early high cultures there as the basis for Plato's Atlantis. Although this idea has not raised a broad echo in the mainstream research, his discoverings of rock paintings and engravings presented in the book have been favourably received and quoted by academic researchers.\n\nSince the late 1990s he is best known as a proponent of radically rewriting chronology, with his variant of \"New Chronology\" somewhat between Heribert Illig's phantom time hypothesis and Fomenko's. \nApart from working on New Chronology Topper did extensive anthropologial research. \nHis works in this field have been partially published in the yearbook of the German Institutum Canarium, as well as in the yearbook of University of Cádiz (Spain). He has published scientific articles in German official reviews like \"Zeitschrift für Ethnologie\" and \"Jahrbuch des Museums für Anthropologie München\". His book on early metal age civilizations (\"horra\") gives a new dimension to prehistoric research.\n\nTopper has also written about the Book of Revelation (\"Das letzte Buch\", 1993), about Reincarnation beliefs from a historical and ethnological perspective (\"Wiedergeburt\", 1988), Sufism in North Africa (\"Sufis und Heilige im Maghreb\", 1984/1991) and popular traditions in Morocco. He lives in Berlin.\n\nIn 1995, Topper, who by then had got in contact with a group of German researchers including Gunnar Heinsohn, Heribert Illig, Christoph Marx and others, who all question the established chronology, decided to take a closer look at the Middle Ages and published a series of books which try to show that History, as we know it, was created from the 16th century onwards - according to this idea, there are hardly well-dated facts before 1400 AD. Titles include \"Die Große Aktion\" [\"The Big Action\"](1998) \"Erfundene Geschichte\" [\"Invented History\"](1999), \"Fälschungen der Geschichte\" [\"Faked History\"](2001), \"ZeitFälschung\" [\"Faking Time\"] (2003), several are translated into Russian, Hungarian, Bulgarian and Corean. His focus on falsifications in the Middle Ages and modern times raised interest in German press. His knowledge of Arabic and Berber makes him focus especially on North African subjects.\n\n\n\n \n"}
{"id": "3302423", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3302423", "title": "William G. Morgan", "text": "William G. Morgan\n\nWilliam George Morgan (January 23, 1870 – December 27, 1942) was the inventor of volleyball, originally called \"Mintonette\", a name derived from the game of badminton\nwhich he later agreed to change to better reflect the nature of the sport. He was born in Lockport, New York, US.\n\nHe met James Naismith, inventor of basketball, while Morgan was studying at Springfield College in 1892. Like Naismith, Morgan pursued a career in Physical Education at the YMCA. Influenced by Naismith and basketball, in 1895, in Holyoke, Massachusetts, Morgan invented \"Mintonette\" a less vigorous team sport more suitable for older members of the YMCA but one that still required athletic skill. Later Alfred S. Halstead watched it being played and renamed it \"Volleyball\", because the point of the game is to volley the ball back and forth over the net.\n\nWilliam George Morgan graduated high school at Northfield Mount Hermon School and moved on to attend the YMCA International Training School (Later renamed Springfield College) in Massachusetts with James Naismith, the inventor of basketball. Both Morgan and Naismith pursued careers in Physical Education at the YMCA (Young Men’s Christian Association). Auburn, Maine, at the YMCA, was where Morgan spent one year working prior to graduating from Springfield College. During the summer of 1895, Morgan moved to Holyoke, Massachusetts, where he continued to work for the YMCA, becoming the Director of Physical Education. With Morgan being the Director, it allowed him to devise workout plans and teach sports in depth to the young male adult.\n\nAs William Morgan worked as the Director of Physical Education at the YMCA in Holyoke, he started to notice that the game of basketball was not meant for everyone to play. The weaker young men, non-athletic adults, and the older adults were not able to keep up with running up and down the court, along with the amount of contact they would occasionally run into. Morgan then had to think of a game in where everyone would have an equal amount of participation but also had similar objectives to basketball. He wanted to create a game which everyone could play, no matter their age or physical ability.\n\nBetween trying to run classes at the YMCA and creating a new sport suitable for all, Morgan decided it was best that he use ideas from various sports such as handball, tennis, and badminton, and his own knowledge from sports training methods and experience, to create this new sport. He decided that the game would involve a six-foot, six-inch net in the middle dividing the 2 separate playing areas, and that it would be played on a 30 ft. × 60 ft. court, so that it could be played in gyms anywhere across the nation.\n\nAfter creating some ground rules, William Morgan had to experiment with his game. First, he had to decide which ball to use. A basketball was too heavy while the basketball bladder was too light. After testing all of the balls he had available, he had come to the conclusion that his best option was to ask A.G. Spalding & Bros. to make him a ball. A young A.G. Spalding & Bros. equipment designer and master marine cloth tailor, Dale Callaghan, developed and produced the first prototype volleyball. Morgan was very pleased with Spalding & Bros. work. They created Morgan the perfect ball for his sport, which was covered in leather, with the circumference of 25–27 inches. The ball was also the perfect weight for Morgan's sport. The ball weighed 9–12 ounces. This new ball that had been made for Morgan's sport was the perfect finishing touch to the basics of the sport. The last thing that had to be done by Morgan was to create a name. Morgan came up with \"Mintonette\" as the new name for his game.\n\nThe first time Morgan revealed his sport to the other Directors of Physical was at the YMCA located in Springfield, in 1896. He presented his new, creative idea to Dr. Luther Halsey Gulick (director of the professional physical education training school) and the rest of the YMCA Directors of Physical Education. Dr. Gulick was so pleased that he asked Morgan to present his sport at the school's new stadium.\n\nIn preparation for his big debut, Morgan created 2 teams of 5 men, who would help in demonstrating “Mintonette” in front of the conference delegates in the East Gymnasium at Springfield College.\n\nOn February 9, 1895, William Morgan presented his new sport to the world. When Morgan was explaining the game before the demonstration, he named a few key guidelines in the game of “Mintonette” such as that the game was created so that it could be played in open air and in gyms as well as the objective of the game was to keep the ball in action as it goes from one side of the high net, to the other.\n\nOne of the conference delegates, Professor Alfred T. Halsted, loved the game of Mintonette, but he felt like something was just not right. Professor Halsted suggested that the name of the game should be Volleyball, since the main point of the game was to “volley” the ball to a player or over the net. Morgan agreed with Halsted's idea and since then the original game of “Mintonette” has been referred to as Volleyball.\n\nMorgan continued to tweak the rules of the game until July 1896, where his sport was added into the first official handbook of the North American YMCA Athletic League.\n\nOn July 7, 1896, the first game of volleyball was played at Springfield College.\n\nWilliam Morgan left his job at the YMCA in 1897 to start a new career with General Electric and Westinghouse. He stayed in touch with Springfield College and stated that he was \"content in the knowledge that the game brought a richer life to millions of people throughout the world.\"\n\nMorgan died on December 27, 1942.\n\nIn 1995, The Morgan Trophy Award was created. The Award is presented annually to the most outstanding male and female collegiate volleyball player in the US.\nAn elementary school in Holyoke, William Morgan School, bears his name.\n"}
{"id": "24667050", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24667050", "title": "Yechiam Weitz", "text": "Yechiam Weitz\n\nYechiam Weitz (born 1951) is an Israeli professor and historian.\n\nYechiam Weitz is the grandson of Yosef Weitz, director of the Land and Afforestation Department of the Jewish National Fund. Yosef Weitz had lost a son by the same name, Yehiam (the English spelling is of little relevance; stands for \"long live the nation\" in Hebrew) five years before the birth of his grandson, in a Palmach operation in 1946.\n\nWeitz obtained his B.A. in history and philosophy in 1977, and his M.A. in history in 1982, from the Hebrew University of Jerusalem. He obtained his PhD in 1988, also from the Hebrew University of Jerusalem, on the topic of \"The Attitude of Mapai Towards the Destruction of European Jewry 1939-1945,\" supervised by Yisrael Gutman.\n\nWeitz teaches at the Department of Land of Israel Studies at the University of Haifa. He is the editor of \"Between Vision and Revision: One Hundred Years of Zionist Historiography\" (1994) and author of a book about Rudolf Kastner, \"Ha-Ish she-Nirtsah Paamayim\" (\"The Man who was Murdered Twice\")\n\n\n"}
