{"id": "46440262", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46440262", "title": "1915 Football Championship Paranaense", "text": "1915 Football Championship Paranaense\n\nThe 1915 Soccer Paranaense Championship (in Portuguese: Campeonato Paranaense de Futebol de 1915) was the first championship edition of the Brazilian state of Paraná and southern Brazil.\n\nThe winner this year was the International Football Club. It was a club of Curitiba, extinct since 1924.\n\n"}
{"id": "23884627", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23884627", "title": "1980 Liberian Premier League", "text": "1980 Liberian Premier League\n\nStatistics of Liberian Premier League in season 1980.\n\nInvincible Eleven won the championship.\n\n"}
{"id": "41035441", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41035441", "title": "1985 Ms. Olympia", "text": "1985 Ms. Olympia\n\nThe 1985 Ms. Olympia contest was an IFBB professional bodybuilding competition was held on November 30, 1985, at the Felt Forum in Madison Square Garden in New York City, New York. It was the 6th Ms. Olympia competition held.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "28278478", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28278478", "title": "1990 Lithuanian Athletics Championships", "text": "1990 Lithuanian Athletics Championships\n\nThe 67th 1990 Lithuanian Athletics Championships were held at 1990.\n\n"}
{"id": "26173451", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26173451", "title": "1991–92 Lebanese Football League", "text": "1991–92 Lebanese Football League\n\nStatistics of Lebanese Football League in the 1991/1992 season.\n\nAl-Ansar won the championship.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "32999857", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32999857", "title": "2011 World Cup of Pool", "text": "2011 World Cup of Pool\n\nThe 2011 World Cup of Pool is the sixth edition of the said tournament. For the third straight year, the event is once again being held in the Philippines, at The Block of SM City North EDSA in Quezon City, from September 6 to 11, 2011.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "44485965", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44485965", "title": "2014 Perth 400", "text": "2014 Perth 400\n\nThe 2014 Perth 400 was a motor race meeting for the Australian sedan-based V8 Supercars. It was the fifth event of the 2014 International V8 Supercars Championship. It was held on the weekend of 16-18 May at the Barbagallo Raceway, near Wanneroo, Western Australia.\n"}
{"id": "1271962", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1271962", "title": "Billiard table", "text": "Billiard table\n\nA billiard table or billiards table is a bounded table on which cue sports are played. In the modern era, all billiards tables (whether for carom billiards, pocket billiards, pyramid or snooker) provide a flat surface usually made of quarried slate, that is covered with cloth (usually of a tightly-woven worsted wool called baize), and surrounded by vulcanized rubber cushions, with the whole elevated above the floor. More specific terms are used for specific sports, such as snooker table and pool table, and different-sized billiard balls are used on these table types. An obsolete term is billiard board, used in the 16th and 17th centuries.\n\nCushions (also sometimes called \"rail cushions\", \"cushion rubber\", or rarely \"bumpers\") are located on the inner sides of a table's wooden . There are several different materials and design philosophies associated with cushion rubber. The cushions are made from an elastic material such as vulcanized rubber (gum or synthetic). The chiefly American jargon \"rails \"more properly applies to the wooded outer segments of the table to which the cushions are affixed.\n\nThe purpose of the cushion rubber is to cause the billiard balls to rebound off the rubber while minimizing the loss of kinetic energy.\n\nWhen installed properly the distance from the nose of the cushion to the covered slate surface is while using a regulation ball set.\n\nThe \"profile\" of the rail cushion, which is the cushion's angle in relation to the bed of the table, varies between table types. The standard on American pool tables is the K-66 profile, which as defined by the Billiard Congress of America (BCA) has a base of and a nose height of .\n\nOn a carom table, the K-55 profile is used (with a somewhat sharper angle than pool cushions). K-55 cushions have cloth, usually canvas, vulcanized into the top of the rubber to adjust rebound accuracy and speed.\n\nFinally, snooker tables may use an L-shaped profile, such as the L77 profile. This is mostly because snooker uses balls of a smaller diameter and smaller pocket entrances than pool.\n\nThe bed – the cloth-covered, horizontal playing surface – is, on high-quality equipment, made of solid, smooth slabs of slate, most often from Italy, Brazil or China. Small pool tables may use only one or two pieces of slate, while carom, English billiards and tournament-size pool tables use three. Full-size snooker tables require five. The gap between slates is filled with a hard-drying putty, epoxy or resin, then sanded to produce a seamless surface, before being covered with the cloth. When several pieces of slate are joined poorly it is possible for the resin to deform and cause an uneven playing surface; it can also be difficult to move once joined.\n\nTables for the home market usually use slate beds as well, but the slate is often thinner, down to about . The early table beds were made of cloth-covered wooden boards. Today, inexpensive but not very rigid or durable materials used for the beds of low-end tables (e.g. for children's recreation rooms) still include wood, especially medium-density fibreboard and plywood, as well as plastics and other synthetic materials under various trade names.\n\nBilliard cloth (sometimes erroneously called felt) is a specific type of cloth that covers the top of the table's \"playing area\". Both the rails and slate beds are covered with 21–24-ounce billiard cloth (although some less expensive 19-ounce cloths are available) which is most often green in colour (representing the grass of the original lawn games that billiards evolved from), and consists of either a woven wool or wool-nylon blend called baize.\n\nMost bar tables, which get lots of play, use the slower, thicker blended felt because it is cheaper. Worsted cloth is more expensive but lasts longer. This type of cloth is called a woollen cloth. By contrast, high-quality pool cloth is usually made of a napless weave such as worsted wool, which gives a much faster roll to the balls. This \"speed\" of the cloth affects the amounts of and of the balls, among other aspects of game finesse. Snooker cloth traditionally has a directional nap, upon which the balls behave differently when rolling against vs. running with the direction of the nap.\n\n, also known as (for their traditional shape), are inlaid at precise, evenly spaced positions along the rails of some tables (not usually on snooker tables) to aid in the aiming of bank or kick shots. There are seven along each long rail (with the side pocket interfering with where the seventh one would go, on pocket billiard tables) and three along each short rail, with each of the four corners counting as another in the mathematical systems that the diamonds are used to calculate. These sights divide the playing surface into equal squares. Books, even entire series of books, have been written on geometric and algebraic systems of aiming using the diamonds.\n\nSpots are often used to mark the and on the cloth. Other markings may be a line drawn across the (or across the with , in British-style pool). Another case is the outline of the behind the foot spot where the balls are in straight pool, since the outline of this area is strategically important throughout the game. In artistic pool, lines may be drawn between opposite sights putting a grid on the playing surface. Other grid patterns are used in various forms of balkline billiards. A recent table marking convention, in European nine-ball, is the .\n\nPocketless carom billiards tables are used for such games as three-cushion billiards, straight rail, balkline, artistic billiards and cushion caroms.\n\nRegulation 10 × 5 foot carom billiards tables have a playing surface (measured between the noses of the cushions) of 2.84 meters by 1.42 meters (9.32 × 4.65 feet) with a 5 millimeter allowance. The standard height range of the table, measured from the playing surface to the ground is between 75 and 80 centimeters.\n\nThe slate bed of a carom billiard table must have a minimum thickness of 45 millimeters and is often heated to about 5 degrees C (9 deg F) above room temperature, which helps to keep moisture out of the cloth to aid the balls rolling and rebounding in a consistent manner, and generally makes a table play faster. A heated table is required under international carom rules and is an especially important requirement for the games of three-cushion billiards and artistic billiards.\n\nHeating table beds is an old practice. Queen Victoria had a billiard table that was heated using zinc tubes, although the aim at that time was chiefly to keep the then-used ivory balls from warping. The first use of electric heating was for an 18.2 balkline tournament held in December 1927 between Welker Cochran and Jacob Schaefer, Jr. The New York Times announced it with fanfare: \"For the first time in the history of world's championship balkline billiards a heated table will be used...\"\n\nA pool table, or pocket billiards table, has six – one at each corner of the table () and one at the midpoint of each of the longer sides ( or ).\n\nPool tables come in different sizes, typically referred to as , , , or tables. In all cases, the table is rectangular with a ratio (e.g. ).\n\nThere are only two sizes approved for tournament play by the International Olympic Committee-recognized sport governing body of pool, the World Pool-Billiard Association (WPA), and its various regional and national affiliates; under the world standardised rules of pool, these are the and models. For a table, the playing surface (the dimensions between the noses of the cushions) measures by with a (3.2 mm) margin of error for either dimension. For an , the playing surface measures by , with the same inch variance allowed.\n\nIn the UK as well as a number of other British Commonwealth and European countries, the typical pool table is a 7 × 3.5 ft (2.13 × 0.91 m), although 6-foot (1.83 m) tables for the pub and home market are also common. These are the sizes used by internationally standardised blackball and the amateur World Eightball Pool Federation, as well as informal pub pool. The 7-foot size is also frequently used in North American amateur leagues, and are common coin-operated fixtures in bars and other venues. The playing surface for a 7-foot table is by .\n\nPockets, usually rimmed at the back with leather or plastic, may have drop pockets, which are small nets, bags or cups to catch the balls. Ball returns, instead have a series of troughs or gutters inside the table, which channel the balls into a collection chamber on one side of the table. On a coin-operated table, the balls are deposited inside an inaccessible compartment window until the table is paid again, allowing the balls to be released into the collection chamber. A disadvantage to drop pockets is that if too many balls go into the same pocket, it will fill up the receptacle and prevent any more balls from going in that pocket, requiring that some be moved out of the pocket manually before shooting again.\n\nRegardless of table size, the WPA standard (sometimes informally called \"American-style\") table has wide, angular pockets that funnel notably inward, generally 1.75 to 2.25 times as wide at the opening as the diameter of the balls, wider at the side (middle) pockets than the corners. WEPF pool (sometimes informally called \"British-style\" or \"Commonwealth-style\") is played with balls, and this type of table has smaller, narrow pockets (the width is calculated as the ball diameter multiplied by 1.6, and is consistent at all six pockets), with rounded entrances and nearly parallel sides, like those on a snooker table. One tactical consequence of this design difference is that the jaws of the WPA-type pocket are often used exactly like a horizontal version of the backboard of a basketball goal, to rebound the ball into the pocket; this technique does not work on blackball tables, and even shots down the cushion into a corner pocket are more difficult.\n\nFor tournament competition under WPA world-standardized rules (and league play under derived rulesets), the bed of the pocket billiard table must be made of slate no less than thick. The flatness of the table must be divergent by no greater than lengthwise and across the width.\n\nA table designed for the games snooker and English billiards is usually called a snooker table today, though English billiards pre-dates snooker. \n\nThe playing area of a tournament snooker table, as standardized by the World Professional Billiards and Snooker Association (WPBSA or World Snooker) and the amateur International Billiards and Snooker Federation (IBSF) which uses WPBSA rules, measures 11 feet 8.5 inches by 5 ft 10 in (356.9 cm by 177.8 cm) with a tolerance of ± 0.5 in (13 mm), though commonly referred to as 12 ft by 6 ft. Smaller tables, approximately 10 ft by 5 ft down to half size, are also sometimes used in pubs, homes and smaller snooker halls. The height from the floor to the top of the cushion is between 2 ft 9.5 in and 2 ft 10.5 in (85.1 cm and 87.6 cm).\n\nA snooker table has six pockets, one at each corner and one at the center of each of the longest side cushions. The pockets are around 86 mm (3.5 in), though high-class tournaments may use slightly smaller pockets to increase difficulty. The amount of (trimmed underside of the rubber cushion's protruding at the pocket opening), if any, has a strong effect on how easily a ball is accepted by the pocket (the \"). On snooker and English billiards tables, the pocket entries are rounded, while pool tables have sharp \". This affects how accurate shots need to be to get into a pocket, and how fast they can be when not dead-on, including shots that run along and against a cushion, making snooker more difficult to play than pool. According to the WPBSA official rule book, \"the pocket openings shall conform to the owned and authorised by The World Professional Billiards and Snooker Association (WPBSA)\". The WPBSA and IBSF rule books' equipment sections do not actually specify the measurements and shapes of these proprietary templates which change from time to time, requiring that the templates be dated. The organisations do not recognise tournament play or records (maximum breaks, etc.) if not performed on tables that conform to then-current templates.\n\nThe cushions (sometimes known as rails, though that term properly applies to the wood sections to which the cushions are attached) are usually made of vulcanized rubber.\n\nThe area is marked by a drawn on the cloth across the width of the table at 29 inches (737 mm) from and parallel to the face of the . A semicircle with a radius of 11.5 inches (292 mm) centered on this line within baulk forms in which the cue ball must be placed when breaking or after the cue ball has been or shot off the table. The position of four of are marked along the (lengthwise centre) of the table, perpendicular to the baulk line: the , 12.75 inches (324 mm) from the ; the or , located at the midpoint between the bottom and top ; the or , located midway between the centre spot and the top cushion; and the or , located at the midpoint of the baulk line (and, thus of the \"D\"). Due to its obviousness, the brown spot is not always marked (neither are the unmistakable and , at the left and right intersections, respectively, of the baulk line and the \"Ds curve. The exact placing of these markings are different on smaller tables, but proportional to the full-size model.\n\nThe of a good quality snooker table has a of slate and is covered with baize cloth, traditionally green, though many other colors are now available. The thickness of this cloth determines the table's (lack of friction) and responsiveness to , thicker cloths being longer lasting but slower and less responsive. The nap of the cloth can affect the run of the balls, especially on slower shots and shots played with applied to the . A snooker table traditionally has the nap running from the baulk to the top end and is brushed and ironed in this direction.\n\nOther types of billiard tables are used for specific games, such as Russian pyramid which uses a '12 ft by 6 ft' table (similar to a snooker table but with much smaller pockets), and Asian four ball which uses a pocketless 8 ft by 4 ft table. Games such as bagatelle often had more than six holes, including straight through the bed in the middle of the table, a feature still found in bar billiards and bumper pool.\n\nThere are novelty billiard tables, often for pool, that come in various shapes including zig-zag, circular, and (especially for bumper pool) hexagonal. A circular table featured prominently in the 1972 film \"Silent Running\". For the home market, many manufacturers have produced convertible billiard tables (in the broad sense) that double as dining tables or as table tennis, foosball, or air hockey, tables, with removable hard tops. Home pool tables, which often lack a ball-return system, are commonly either 4 × 8 ft or 3.5 × 7 ft models, a medium between 3 × 6 ft. bar/pub tables and 4.5 × 9 ft tournament-size models. Low-end tables tend toward the smaller range, and may have MDF or wood beds as an alternative to slate; those with light-weight beds may be foldable for storage, as with table tennis. Miniature tables range in size from tabletop 1 × 1.6 ft to free-standing 2.5 × 5 ft models, and use scaled-down cues and balls.\n"}
{"id": "2611647", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2611647", "title": "Bomb (kick)", "text": "Bomb (kick)\n\nA bomb also known as an up and under or a Garryowen is a type of kick used in various codes of football. As the names suggests, it is a high kick intended to send the ball relatively straight up so players can get under it before it comes down (see \"hang time\").\n\nThe execution of a \"bomb\" in rugby league involves putting up a high kick in general play. The ball often does not travel very far forward, giving the attacking team time to run ahead to where it is expected to land, providing the possibility of re-gaining possession amongst an un-set defensive line. Bombs are often used when close to the try-line, so that the attacking team's best jumpers have a chance to leap for the ball and come down with it in the in-goal area.\n\nThe result is a towering ball which should rotate end on end. The height of the kick makes the ball susceptible to wind which causes the ball to change direction. Also, the ball gathers speed as it falls closer to the ground and this combined with the swirling can also cause the ball to change direction, making it difficult for the opposition to take the ball cleanly.\n\nIn Australian rugby league, the bomb was popularised by Easts' and Parramatta's John \"Bomber\" Peard in the 1970s. However, by the 1980s, it became increasingly seen as a negative or unexciting tactic, and a rule change was made to lessen its effect: A bomb (or any type of kick) caught on the full in the in-goal area by the defending side now resulted in an automatic 20 metre tap restart, sometimes colloquially known as \"defusing the bomb\". Grubber kicks or cross kicks are now often used in preference to bombing into the in-goal area. In the 1970s the phrase \"up and under\" became associated with Rugby League in Britain, when it became the catchphrase of Eddie Waring, an English rugby league coach, commentator and television presenter.\n\nIn recent times the \"Up and Under\" was mastered by Bobbie Goulding helping St. Helens to the inaugural Super League title, and several others after that. It was a common feature of the Saints and though it suffered criticism for its 'negative' quality (at the same time rugby union was under similar scrutiny for turning into a 'kicking' game) it was an extremely effective tactic. The risky nature of the ball (for the catcher) and the opportunity for the pursuing players to challenge for it made it an often comical, and controversial move particularly in the case of defensive players 'chickening out' under pressure.\n\nBeing able to secure bombs is a sought after quality in fullbacks and wingers.\n\nIn rugby union, the term 'bomb' is rarely used, with 'up and under' or \"Garryowen\" (after the Garryowen Football Club that popularised the tactic) preferred. It allows the attacking team to disrupt the defensive line, take the defence's pressure off themselves and put offensive pressure on their opponents. However, the kicking team risks losing possession of the ball, after which the opposing team may counterattack. In rugby union, the opposing team may choose to call for a mark if the ball is behind the opposition's 22 metre line and caught cleanly. \n\nDue to the requirement of kicks to travel more than 15 metres before a mark can be awarded, high short kicks are rarely deliberately used in Australian rules football. When they are used they are generally known as \"up and unders\". The term \"bomb\", however, is commonly used to describe a very long kick, especially one designed to just gain field position, not as a pass to a specific player.\n\nThe bomb kick is legal in Canadian football, under the condition that the person trying to recover the kick start behind or at the same yard line as the kicker. It is also legal in arena football, where rebound nets reduce the required angle needed for the kick to be effective; in arena football, the ball must be kicked from the ground or through a drop kick, as punts are not legal. Bomb kicks are not legal in American football, where players are not allowed to recover their own team's kicks on scrimmage plays.\n\nEven in gridiron codes where it is legal, the bomb kick is rarely encountered. The forward pass in those codes fulfills the purpose of the bomb kick more reliably and with less risk to the offensive team.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "371120", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=371120", "title": "Boxing in the 1960s", "text": "Boxing in the 1960s\n\nDuring the 1960s, boxing, like mostly everything else around the world, went through changing times. Notable was the emergence of a young boxer named Cassius Clay, who would, in his own words \"shock the world\", declare himself against war, and change his name to Muhammad Ali.\nAmong significant boxers in lower weights, were middleweights Emile Griffith, Nino Benvenuti and Dick Tiger, and lightweights Joe Brown, Carlos Ortiz and Ismael Laguna. The first world champions from Venezuela and Thailand were crowned during the 1960s, and the WBA and WBC started competing against each other, after the WBA changed its name from the National Boxing Association in 1962 and a group split from the WBA in 1963 to form the WBC.\n\nA new division was created in the Jr. Middleweights, where a high school teacher, Freddie Little, was crowned world champion. Fights were seen on color television for the first time, and one of the most famous tragedies, Benny Kid Paret's, was also shown live on TV.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "5729742", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5729742", "title": "Béla Réthy", "text": "Béla Réthy\n\nBéla Andreas Réthy (born 14 December 1956 in Vienna) is a German sports reporter of Hungarian ancestry.\n\nWhen Réthy was born, his parents had to leave their home country because of the 1956 Hungarian Revolution. They emigrated to Brazil where they stayed until they went to Germany in 1968. Réthy obtained his \"Abitur\" certificate so he was able to attend Johannes Gutenberg University of Mainz where he studied literature and journalism. In the meantime he worked in the sports archive of the ZDF and became a freelancer later. Since 1987, he has been salaried.\n\nHis first live broadcast was during an international football match between the under-16 teams of Germany and Ireland in 1991. He has commentated the finals of:\n\n\nRéthy speaks German, Hungarian, Portuguese and English fluently, as well as French and Spanish.\n\nI\n"}
{"id": "41784594", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41784594", "title": "Chile national inline hockey team", "text": "Chile national inline hockey team\n\nThe Chilean national inline hockey team represents inline hockey in Chile at international competitions. The team have not played in any world championships until the Chilean Ice and Inline Hockey Federation was founded and it joined the IIHF in 2000. The team does however participate in the IIHF Inline Hockey World Championship and the FIRS Inline Hockey World Championship tournaments (organised by International Roller Sports Federation). Chile has rinks in Santiago, Puerto Montt, and Punta Arenas, where ice hockey is being developed.\n"}
{"id": "577650", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=577650", "title": "Clapham Common", "text": "Clapham Common\n\nClapham Common is a large triangular urban park in Clapham, south London. Originally common land for the parishes of Battersea and Clapham, it was converted to parkland under the terms of the Metropolitan Commons Act 1878. It is of green space, with three ponds and a Victorian bandstand. It is overlooked by large Georgian and Victorian mansions and nearby Clapham Old Town.\n\nHoly Trinity Clapham, an 18th-century Georgian church overlooking the park, is important in the history of the evangelical Clapham Sect. Half of the park is within the London Borough of Wandsworth, and the other half is within the London Borough of Lambeth.\n\nOriginally common land for the parishes of Battersea and Clapham, William Hewer was among the early Londoners to build adjacent to it. Samuel Pepys, the diarist, died at Hewer's house in 1703. The land was drained in the 1760s, and from the 1790s onwards fine houses were built around the common as fashionable dwellings for wealthy business people in what was then a village detached from metropolitan London. Some later residents were members of the Clapham Sect of evangelical reformers, including Lord Teignmouth and Henry Thornton, the banker and abolitionist. In 1911, Scottish evangelist and teacher Oswald Chambers (1874-1917) founded and was principal of the Bible Training College in Clapham Common, an \"embarrassingly elegant\" property situated at 45 North Side that had been purchased by the Pentecostal League of Prayer. Excerpts of Chambers weekly addresses to the student body at the college were published in 1934 by his wife Gertrude (Biddy) Hobbs in the book My Utmost For His Highest, perhaps one of the most widely read Christian devotional books (39 languages, 13 million copies).\n\nJ. M. W. Turner painted \"View on Clapham Common\" between 1800 and 1805, showing that even though the common had been drained, it still remained \"quite a wild place\".\n\nThe common was converted to parkland under the terms of the Metropolitan Commons Act in 1878. As London expanded in the 19th century, Clapham was absorbed into the capital, with most of the remaining palatial or agricultural estates replaced with terraced housing by the early 1900s. During World War II, storage bunkers were built on the Battersea Rise side of the common; two mounds remain.\n\nClapham Common was the venue for one of the earliest known cricket events when a \"series of ten-a-side matches\" was held there on Monday, 1 April 1700. The participants were all \"gentlemen\" though \"others\" could attend as spectators. Classification of the event is uncertain, though it must presumably be viewed as a minor event given the limited social status of the participants, the relatively low stakes (£10 and £20 are mentioned in the newspaper report) and the ten-a-side teams. It is nevertheless the earliest known \"organised\" match in Surrey; the earliest \"definite mention\" of cricket in the county was the 1597 court case in Guildford.\n\nHalf of the common is within the London Borough of Wandsworth and half within the London Borough of Lambeth. It is wholly managed and maintained by the London Borough of Lambeth, while the policing of the open space is divided between the Wandsworth and Lambeth borough \"commands\" of the Metropolitan Police, which follow the local government boundaries. The roads surrounding the common fall within the SW4 post code.\n\nClapham Common is in the Clapham Common electoral ward.\n\nIn 2010, residents of the Clapham Common ward elected two Conservative Councillors & one Lib Dem Councillor.\n\nIn 2014, residents of the Clapham Common ward elected 3 Conservative Councillors.\nThis was the first time the Conservatives had taken control of the Clapham Common ward since the 1960s.\n\nIn 2018, residents elected 2 Labour & 1 Conservative councillor.\n\nClapham Common has a range of sporting facilities, including a running track, bowling green, cricket, football, rugby and Australian rules football pitches, and a skateboard venue. The park contains three ponds, two of which are historical features, and a more modern paddling pool known as Cock Pond. Eagle Pond and Mount Pond are used for angling and contain a variety of species including carp to 20 lb, roach, tench and bream. Eagle Pond was extensively refurbished in 2002 when it was completely drained, landscaped and replanted to provide a better habitat for the fish it contained. Long Pond has a century-old tradition of use for model boating.\n\nHoly Trinity Church (1776) is close to the north side of the park. An Anglican church, it hosts its fete in the park every summer.\n\nClapham Common and Clapham South Underground stations are on the edge of the common at its easternmost and southernmost points respectively. Both stations are served by the Northern line.\n\nA memorial tree to actor Jeremy Brett – who had lived locally for many years prior to his death in 1995 – was planted on 30 March 2007.\n\nIn the centre of the park is a bandstand constructed in 1890. It is the largest bandstand in London and a Grade II Listed Building. For many years it was also erroneously thought to be one of the bandstands first erected in 1861 in the Royal Horticultural Society's gardens in South Kensington, which would have made it the oldest surviving cast iron bandstand in Europe. However, recent research has shown that these bandstands went to Southwark Park and Peckham Rye, and it appears that the Clapham bandstand was fabricated to a very similar design almost thirty years later.\nThe bandstand's maintenance had been neglected by Lambeth Council for thirty years, and by 2001 it was thought to be in danger of collapse and had to be shored up with scaffolding for five years. In 2005–2006, a full restoration of the bandstand and surrounding landscape took place, partly funded by an £895,000 lottery grant from the Heritage Lottery Fund matched by £300,000 from Lambeth Council and a further £100,000 from local fundraising efforts and the proceeds of the \"Ben and Jerry's Summer Sundae\" event held on the Common. The drainage bund around the bandstand was restored with granite setts during the summer of 2011 at a cost of £12,000 to resolve design faults in the earlier works.\nClapham Common has a reputation as a place for men seeking anonymous sex with other men in public places. When Welsh politician Ron Davies was robbed at knife point in 1998 after he gave a lift to strangers he had met in the park, there was speculation that the incident involved \"cruising\"; Davies resigned his position in the UK government, denying the incident had anything to do with drugs or sex. There have been several attacks on men in the vicinity of the park, including one in 2005 on a young man, Jody Dobrowski, thought by his attackers to be gay, during which he was badly beaten and later died. The incident was the impetus for the making of the 2007 Channel 4 film \"Clapham Junction\".\n\nThe park has hosted various musical festivals, including Colourscape Music Festival since 1989,; Get Loaded in the Park, from 2004 to 2011 when Razorlight were the headline act; South West Four Eurodance music festival annually in August since 2004; and other music events, such as Subway Picnic Rocks in 2008, organised by Action Against Hunger In 2014 the Calling Festival, which had previously been held in Hyde Park under the name Hard Rock Calling Festival, moved to Clapham Common; headline acts are Aerosmith and Stevie Wonder.\n\nSporting events held in Clapham Common and sports teams based in the park include the Latin American football League, which has played organised football on the red car pitches located on the south side of the park since the 1980s; the British Australian Rules Football League Grand Final, for which the park is the traditional venue; South West London Chargers rugby club formed in 2013 have their home in the park; London Titans football club play in the park; various sport teams are active on the park, including softball, korfball, and Australian Rules Football. Clapham Alexandra football club play some games on the park. In 2010 Sunday League footballers using the facilities in the park felt they were \"awful\".\n\nA Lesbian & Gay Pride event, to be termed Pride House, was planned to take place on the park during the 2012 Summer Olympics, but ran into opposition from the Friends of Clapham Common, and was eventually cancelled for lack of funding. Every Easter and February half-term George Irvin's Funfair visits the park.\n\nBenjamin Franklin used the ponds for science experiments, and developing a \"magic\" trick. While traveling on a ship, Franklin had observed that the wake of a ship was diminished when the cooks scuttled their greasy water. He studied the effects at Clapham common on a large pond there. \"I fetched out a cruet of oil and dropt a little of it on the water ... though not more than a teaspoon full, produced an instant calm over a space of several yards square.\" He later used the trick to \"calm the waters\" by carrying \"a little oil in the hollow joint of my cane.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "14672440", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14672440", "title": "Cricket season", "text": "Cricket season\n\nCricket seasons are the times of the year when cricket is played.\n\nBecause top-class cricket is almost always played outdoors, on uncovered pitches, and rain prevents play, the seasons in each country are geared to coincide with the driest months of the year. The hours of daylight and the temperature are also factors in some countries. For example, in England the winter days are too short and often too dark, and the temperature is too low, for playing cricket to be practical. Normally, cricket is played outdoors but in the UK, cricket is played indoors when the season is finished.\n\nWhen designating cricket seasons, the convention is to use a single year for a northern hemisphere summer season, and a dashed pair of years to indicate a southern hemisphere summer. Hence, 1948 for the English summer season and 1948–49 for the Australian summer that followed some months later. In the tropics, cricket can be played all year round.\nIn the United Kingdom, the cricket season starts mid-April and ends in September, whereas in Australia, the cricket season begins in October and ends in February or March.\n"}
{"id": "7484909", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7484909", "title": "Deportivo Maldonado", "text": "Deportivo Maldonado\n\nClub Deportivo Maldonado is a football club from Maldonado, Uruguay. They currently play in the Uruguayan Segunda División.\n\nClub Deportivo Maldonado, SAD have a history of being a \"Middle Men\" club used by third-party owners, where top flight South American clubs will sell players to the team before they are immediately sold or loaned to another club, with the player never appearing for Deportivo Maldonado. Notable players who've made this type of transfer include Jonathan Calleri, Gerónimo Rulli, Hernán Toledo, Alex Sandro, Marcelo Estigarribia, Willian José and Iván Piris.\n\n"}
{"id": "982611", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=982611", "title": "Eritrea at the Olympics", "text": "Eritrea at the Olympics\n\nEritrea made its debut at the 2000 Summer Olympics in Sydney where it sent three athletes to compete in track and field events. At the 2004 Games in Athens, Zersenay Tadese won Eritrea's first ever medal when he finished third in the men's 10000 meters. Eritrea made its winter debut at the 2018 Winter Olympics in PyeongChang, South Korea, where Shannon-Ogbnai Abeda competed for Eritrea in the alpine skiing events.\n\nThe Eritrean National Olympic Committee was formed in 1996 and recognized by the International Olympic Committee in 1999.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "275856", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=275856", "title": "Fantasy football (American)", "text": "Fantasy football (American)\n\nFantasy football is a game in which the participants serve as the general managers of virtual professional gridiron football teams. The competitors choose their team rosters by participating in a draft in which all players of a real football league are available. Points are based on the actual performances of the players in real-world competition. The game typically involves the National Football League, Canadian Football League or college football.\n\nThere are two main types of fantasy football:\nDaily fantasy football is managed by commercial internet companies who charge a percentage of each betting pool. In the US, the two largest of these firms are FanDuel and DraftKings.\n\nModern fantasy football can be traced back to the late Wilfred \"Bill the Gill\" Winkenbach, an Oakland area businessman and a limited partner in the Oakland Raiders. In a New York hotel room during a 1962 Raiders eastern cross-country trip, Winkenbach, along with Raiders Public Relations man Bill Tunnel and Tribune reporter Scotty Stirling, developed a system of organization and a rulebook, which would eventually be the basis of modern fantasy football.\n\nThe inaugural league was called the GOPPPL (Greater Oakland Professional Pigskin Prognosticators League), and the first draft took place in the rumpus room of Winkenbach's home in Oakland, California in August 1963. The league consisted of eight members, made up of administrative affiliates of the AFL, pro football journalists, or someone who had purchased or sold 10 season tickets for the Raiders’ 1963 season. Each roster consisted of the following in the GOPPPL: two quarterbacks, four halfbacks, two fullbacks, four offensive ends, two kick/punt returners, two field goal kickers, two defensive backs/linebackers and two defensive linemen. The current GOPPPL roster now includes: two quarterbacks, four halfbacks, six wide receivers/tight ends, two kickers, two defensive backs, one return team, and a bonus pick for any position. As of 2012, the GOPPPL celebrated its 50th season and it still maintains its TD-only scoring heritage.\n\nIn 1969, Andy Mousalimas, an original creator of GOPPPL and participant in the inaugural draft, brought the game to his sports bar, the King's X in Oakland, California where he added another couple of leagues. When the patrons of other Oakland and San Francisco bars visited for trivia contests they soon learned of fantasy football and passed the word about it. Due to the time consuming nature of the game's scoring it was difficult to pick up and spread slowly across the country.\n\nFor years, the popularity of fantasy football grew slowly. In 1976, several high school students held their first draft and in 2017 their league, Coach the Pros, will have their 42nd draft, making them the longest continuously operating fantasy football league in the world.\n\nThe Indoor Football League (IFL) began in Cleveland, Ohio in the fall of 1980 by a group of six students at Case Western Reserve University in Cleveland. Charter members Tom Spear and Jeff Kornreich came up with the idea of forming a league after reading a short article by Glenn Ferry in the September 1980 issue of Inside Sports magazine. The history of the league has been documented in a video produced by the Fantasy Sports Network in their series \"Out of My League.\"\n\nIn 1985, The Grandstand Sports Services launched the first nationally available fantasy football leagues online through Q-Link (later America Online). Between 1985 and 1996 The Grandstand continued to improve on the game and the technology by being the first to offer automated drafting, real-time scoring, real-time trading and transactions and continuous leagues.\n\nThe first national fantasy football competition, Pigskin Playoff, was developed in 1989 by Lee Marc, Robert Barbiere and Brad Wendkos of Phoneworks who teamed with a West Coast Ad Agency (Wakeman & deForest) to launch the game in 1990 in a number of newspapers throughout the country including the Detroit Free Press, Los Angeles Times, Arizona Republic, Press Democrat. Archives of Pigskin Playoff are available online and in most public libraries . Pigskin Playoff is what current Daily Fantasy Sports are modeled after in that it was the first game to allow significantly large numbers of participants to compete against one another for prizes and more importantly converted football statistics into a simple scoring system. Participants created a team of NFL players, earned stats for those players based on actual performance, traded those players on a daily basis, and accrued points in an effort to compete against one another to win prizes. The group filed and was awarded US Patents 5,018,736A and 5,263,723A, for Interactive Game System and Method; Interactive Contest System.\n\nIn 1997, CBS launched the beta version of the first publicly available free fantasy football website. The game immediately became widely popular. Within three years, all major sports media websites launched competing fantasy football hosting websites. The NFL released their own official game in 2010, NFL.com Fantasy Football, further driving industry growth. Fantasy football is now the single most important marketing tool for the NFL. Today, it is estimated over 19 million people compete in public and private leagues online nationally.\n\nIn 2009, a fantasy football-based sitcom, \"The League\", was created by the husband-and-wife team of Jeff Schaffer (\"Curb Your Enthusiasm\", \"Seinfeld\") and Jackie Marcus Schaffer (\"Disturbia\", \"EuroTrip\"), who serve as executive producers and directors. The series was produced by FX Productions.\n\nIn 2017, fantasy football analytics have taken on a larger role than could ever be expected. The science at which predictions are made and the correlation they have with the future results are at an all-time high. There are many companies spending millions of dollars per year on top talent in the world of analytics. The result has paid heavy dividends to those companies making the best hiring decisions as they've in turn received billions in advertisement revenue.\n\nThere are many different methods of organizing fantasy football leagues, some of which may be combined. The two most popular league types are head-to-head and total points leagues.\n\n\nEach year, fantasy football leagues have a draft (note: in dynasty leagues, this normally consists of NFL rookies only), where each team drafts NFL players. These players are kept unless they are traded or dropped, whereby they enter a pool of unowned players that any team may claim. In most leagues, no player may be owned by more than one team, although some leagues do allow for this. There are essentially two types of drafts. In a traditional \"serpentine\" or \"snake\" draft, owners take turns drafting players in a \"snake\" method, i.e. the owner who picks first in the odd rounds picks last in the even rounds, in the interests of fairness.\n\nIn an auction draft, each owner has an imaginary budget which he must use to purchase all his players in an auction format. Owners take turns nominating players for open bid. The owner who bids the highest on each player receives that player, reducing their remaining budget accordingly. Auction drafts are viewed as the more fair method since every owner begins on equal ground. A few leagues use a hybrid of the two styles, selecting a portion of their roster via auction, with the remainder selected through a serpentine method.\n\nThe most commonly used strategies are value-based drafting and opinion-based drafting. Value base drafting entails projecting the total fantasy point value for each player in the draft and then figuring their value with respect to other players at their position, while standard opinion-based drafting requires ranking each player based on your opinion of worth, or other people’s opinion of said player's worth.\n\nDrafts can be conducted in \"live\" or \"auto\" formats. Live drafts involve players utilizing real-time strategy and reactionary measures to acquire specific available players. Auto-drafts use preliminary draft rankings set by each team to automate the draft cycle and establish the teams. Live drafts are often preferred to automated as they are believed to require more skill.\n\nThe location of fantasy football drafts depends on the geographic location of each team manager. With the rise of the internet, all fantasy football providers have made online drafting an option for leagues in which the managers are too far away to meet up in person. Other leagues make a tradition of meeting up to draft, and in some leagues, managers travel cross-country to attend annual league drafts. Group drafts conducted in-person are typically scheduled many weeks in advance. Common locations include boardrooms, offices, bars, or dining establishments. Once the league is full with team owners, the order of the draft numbers should be initiated by either a random in-person or computer-based draft order, or, in a keeper or dynasty league, the draft order runs in reverse order of the previous year's standings.\n\nEach team is allowed a pre-determined number of players on its roster, as well as a specified number at each position that can or must be used in each game (the \"starters\"). Owners for each team then determine each week which players will start (within the rules) and which will be \"benched\". Just like in real football, bench players can become starters for various reasons: due to other players' injury, poor performance, or if another player's team has a bye that week.\n\nEach week, owners choose their starters for a game before a certain deadline. Whether to sit or start a player is usually based on strategic considerations including the player's past and expected performance, defensive match ups, the team he is playing that week and so on.\n\nEach team owner must designate which players from the team roster will be starters each week - i.e. the only players who will \"score\" any points. The following example is similar to many common formats required for a starting lineup:\nThere are many variants on this. Some leagues use individual defensive players (IDPs) (and in some cases a punter) instead of or in addition to a combined Team Defense/Special Teams. Some other leagues use separate Defense and Special Teams. Another variant is the \"flex\" position, which can be filled by a player in one of several positions. Flex positions are often limited to \"WR/TE\", \"RB/WR\", or \"RB/WR/TE\". Traditionally, this flex was required to be an RB, WR, or TE; however, some leagues allow any position to fill this flex slot as an \"OP\" (any player who plays a position on offense) or \"superflex\". Some leagues also have a two-quarterback requirement for a starting lineup, providing yet another twist into the complexity of different scoring systems and lineups.\n\nLeague managers earn their team points based on their \"starting\" players' performances in weekly NFL games. Players accumulate points based purely on their statistical output. For example, a touchdown might be worth six points while each yard passed, rushed, or carried may be worth a certain number of points, and so on. In most cases, players earn points for passing, rushing, and receiving yards.\n\nAlthough kickers can theoretically score points through touchdowns or yards rushed and received, they accumulate most of their points through field goals and extra points. The Team Defense / Special Teams position earns points through defensive plays (such as turnovers, quarterback sacks, safeties, and blocked kicks) and by limiting the offensive points of the opposing teams. Also, whereas points are awarded to players for positive plays, points are taken away from players for negative plays such as turnovers or missed kicks.\n\nThe standard fantasy football scoring system comprises a well-respected baseline of statistic/point-value pairs designed to promote balance across the various fantasy positions. This is the typical scoring configuration chosen by first time fantasy football commissioners because it is a very basic points system which is fair and intuitive for fantasy novices.\n\nA typical standard scoring format would look very similar to this, although there may be slight discrepancies in points awarded to kickers (depending on your league host's scoring limitations):\n\nPoints-per-reception leagues were created as an effort to make wide receivers and tight ends more relevant to fantasy scoring. In this alternate scoring system, fractional or full points are awarded for every reception tallied by a player. This changes the value of players in standard scoring systems, as running backs who catch many passes become more valuable, those who catch fewer are less valuable, and so on. Certain leagues vary the points respective positions earn for receptions.\n\nIn 2018, Yahoo adopted Half-PPR as their default scoring system for new leagues on their fantasy football platform.\n\nAnother scoring system counts only touchdowns, touchdown passes, and field goals for points. Many of the first fantasy football leagues were pure-scoring leagues as this provided for easier tracking of team points throughout the season. As the game matured and moved online, it became easier to track yardage and more sophisticated scoring configurations were adopted.\n\nAn alternate scoring format is the \"pure yardage\" league, in which touchdowns are ignored, and each player's passing, rushing and receiving yards are totaled. Some yardage leagues also convert defensive stats into yards (ex., 50 yards for an interception, 20 yards for a sack), whether for a team's defense, or individual players.\n\nAn alternative method for scoring defense is Individual Defensive Players or IDP fantasy football. The main difference being that players typically draft anywhere from 3 to 7 individual defensive players during a draft as opposed to just one team defense. Sometimes there are required positions to fill like 2 Linebackers, 2 Defensive Backs and 2 Defensive Linemen and sometimes it's just 5 defensive players of any position you choose. There are many different ways to draft IDPs and many have found this makes the later part of the fantasy draft more exciting. For instance, instead of drafting a 5th wide receiver in the 16th round that will typically be on your bench or dropped part way through the season, you are instead drafting a \"full-time\" starting defensive player that can help you win your league.\n\nSome leagues allow bonuses to be awarded to players for exceptionally good performances, like a QB throwing for over 300 yards. Running backs or wide receivers could similarly be awarded a performance bonus based on accumulating more than 100 yards on the ground or through the air. Kickers could even be awarded for long field goals, generally 50 yards or longer.\n\nIn many fantasy football leagues, a player that receives a lot of points in one week may save them to use in a future fantasy game. Specific rules vary from league to league. This ruling has many variations, as does the scoring systems of fantasy football leagues, but the ruling that is considered to be “standard” is defined as follows:\nAny team that scores in excess of 140 points in any one week is eligible for the rollover rule; provided they won the match-up for that week; and with the score of 140 points would have still won the match-up for the week. If the previous is true than the rollover ruling applies, which states; “any team eligible for the rule may use the points earned in excess of 140 on any future match-up for the remainder of the season”, with the following provisions attached:\nThe team electing to use rollover points must make it publicly known to all other teams, twenty-four hours prior to the kickoff of the first game, that they will be using the points that week; rollover points cannot be used for post-season games; rollover points must be used completely and cannot be broken up over multiple weeks, i.e. if a team has 5 rollover points they must be used on one week, not 1 point per week for five weeks; rollover points must be used in the current season; if rollover points have not been used and a team is eligible for additional from another week the points will be added and can only be used in one week.\n\nMany leagues are composed of friends, family, co-workers and even strangers that are in the fantasy league to prove who is the greatest \"couch coach\". Millions of dollars are won and lost each year in fantasy league betting. Some leagues are managed by players in the leagues while other leagues are run by independent businesses. The Federal government has determined that fantasy league gambling is not a \"game of chance\" and as such is not illegal, however, alterations to the rules can cause a fantasy league to skew too far into chance and lose federal protection. At the state level, many states, including Arizona, Iowa, Louisiana, Montana and Vermont have banned certain activities related to fantasy football, such as collection of league fees and payout of winnings, when done so online. Florida has an outright ban on all fantasy football, though how the ban is enforced appears to be unclear. Fantasy football continues unabated in all of these states, so it appears none of these regulations have any effect.\n\nSome Fantasy Football leagues wager things other than money, such as the loser of the league has to get a tattoo, and that tattoo has to be of what the winner of the league wants. The only thing that the loser gets any say in is the location of the tattoo. The owners of the teams have to sign a contract before the season to agree to the punishment if they lose. Other high-stakes leagues offer prizes of US$250,000 to the ultimate champion.\n\nThere are several dynasty leagues that follow the NFL's roster model and score all possible NFL players at all individual positions. Offensive linemen (OL) are scored by total yards and points minus sacks given up. Fullbacks are partially scored as offensive linemen because of their blocking duties. Kick and punt returners are scored by yardage and touchdowns. Punters are scored by net average and punts inside the 20 yard line.\n\nAccording to the FSTA, approximately 41 million people play fantasy sports every year with an average age of 34. 18% of the market is held by teens, an important demographic because more than 80% of all users say they are likely to continue playing for at least the next decade and more than 40% say they will play for life. 80% of all team managers are male. 89.8% of them are white and 51.5% are not married. 78% hold a bachelor's degree or higher, making the majority of team managers an upper middle class earner with a median income between 60-100K.\n\nThe economic impacts of fantasy football are vast in number and value. Most of the impacts are positive on the economy overall, but there are some relatively minor drawbacks. Growth rates in fantasy football showed no signs of slowing down over the past few years. While team managers are drawn to fantasy football because they can get started and play for free, they are still likely to spend on many of fantasy football's complementary industries.\n\nOne of the largest sources of revenue in fantasy football is ad revenue. Driven mostly by sports sites, revenue generated by ads on fantasy football programming is estimated at $2 to $5 billion annually. Ad rates vary greatly, and many content providers aren’t willing to give specific details on what they charge, but sites can charge an estimated $2–$10 per thousand pageviews. The advertising revenue can be especially lucrative because fantasy team managers are such heavy internet users. They create, on average, 4 times more pageviews than those that don’t play fantasy sports. Advertising isn’t limited to just sports sites and television. Demand for fantasy football information has spread to mobile applications, which carry banner ads at the bottom or top of each screen.\n\nAdditionally, fantasy football team managers pour money into the industry themselves. Many fantasy leagues require an entry fee, which are used to fund prizes for the league winners. These fees and their resulting payoffs are typically small, and represent more of a transfer of wealth between players than contributions to the overall economy. However, fantasy football team managers are also more likely to spend on other industries. When compared to non-fantasy sports fans, team managers are significantly more likely to purchase alcohol, airline tickets, and sports magazines. They are also more likely to purchase fast food and soft drinks.\n\nFantasy football has also created several complementary and derivative industries. Team managers will spend on subscription-based information sites such as rotoworld.com, draftsharks.com and Football Guys to gain an informational advantage. Fantasy leagues may also engage services to make their things run smoothly and settle disputes. Leagues may deposit collected fees with fantasy football specific escrow companies, and settle disputes regarding trades or scoring by using lawyer-run fantasy football arbitration websites for a flat fee per resolution. The excitement of drafting a team each year has led to a new derivative of fantasy football: Day or week leagues, which offer the opportunity to draft a new team and play a single game each week. Fantasy football has worked its way into pop culture with an estimated $1.67 billion contributed to the economy as of 2012. TV sitcoms about groups of friends playing each other in fantasy football, cable networks dedicating blocks of programming specifically to fantasy football, 24/7 satellite radio channels reporting fantasy news, and services designed to provide team managers with alerts about their player’s status to their phones.\n\nThe rise of popularity of Fantasy football has led to the growth of companies such as Fanduel and Draftkings. Draftkings has reported in net $304 million in entry fees in 2014. This rise has also been coupled with a rise of interest in applying higher level mathematics and computer science into the fantasy industry. Scientists with advanced degrees in mathematics, statistics, computer science apply algorithms, optimizations, and advanced statistics in order to hypothesize the best lineup and create the best outcome. This has led to companies exclusively with this purpose in mind, specializing in this sports analytics.\n\nThe explosive popularity of fantasy sports, coupled with the availability of venues showcasing numerous live football games via satellite, has had significant effects on football viewing and rooting habits among participants. Fantasy sports players watch more game telecasts, buy more tickets and spend money at stadiums at a much higher rate than general sports fans. For example, 55 percent of fantasy sports players report watching more sports on television since they started playing fantasy sports. Fantasy participants also are reported to attend 0.22 to 0.57 more NFL games in person per season. The NFL entered into a reported five-year, $600 million deal in 2006 with Sprint that was driven at least in part because of fantasy sports, allowing subscribers to draft and monitor their teams with their cellphones. Many sports and football-related sports news shows discuss fantasy-related topics. Besides the fictional \"The League\", multiple TV programs that focus on fantasy football news exist; examples include ESPN's \"Fantasy Football Now\" and CBS's \"Fantasy Football Today\".\n\nThe way a fantasy owner watches a game is greatly affected if a player on their team is playing. An owner will root for specific things to happen in order for their player(s) to score points. For example, someone who has a running back will root for a goal line situation or for the team the running back plays for to be up by a significant number of points. If the running back's team is on the goal line, then a running play is more likely to be called. If the running back's team is up by a significant number of points, his team will call more running plays in order to run out the clock. The more running plays called, the more points for that running back. Different scenarios will provide certain players an opportunity to score points for fantasy owners.\nCritics charge that because of the varying interests, some fantasy owners may instead support the players on their fantasy rosters in any one game rather than supporting a favorite team. Players are mixed on the impact of the effects of fantasy football on fans' habits and preferences. Retired NFL QB Jake Plummer told ESPN \"I think it's ruined the game\", and retired New York Giants RB Tiki Barber said about fantasy fans, \"there's an incongruity in the wants.\" However, former Washington Redskins tight end Chris Cooley plays in four fantasy football leagues himself, and former Indianapolis Colts linebacker Cato June benched New England Patriots quarterback Tom Brady from his fantasy team to avoid a conflict of interest when the two teams played in November 2006. Fans frequently ask players on their fantasy rosters to score more often; Peyton Manning reported that only autograph requests exceeded fan requests for \"more fantasy touchdowns\" from him. Fans often seek inside information on injuries and future stars from coaches, and players have been known to receive harsh criticism from fans in response to unsatisfactory fantasy football performances.\n\nIn 2011, the NFL directed teams to show fantasy statistics during games on the stadium video boards. In fact, NFL executives have recognized the importance of fantasy football’s success to the NFL overall.\n\nOne of the primary effects on spectatorship includes fans tracking injuries of NFL players throughout the season in order to better manage their starting line ups. Critics charge this translates into fantasy fans becoming more concerned with whether an injury will bench a player, rather than the nature, extent or seriousness of the injury, or sympathy toward the player. For strategy reasons, many teams refuse to disclose the seriousness of a player's injury until game time. This frustrates many fantasy owners trying to determine whether to start or bench a player whose participation is listed as \"questionable\" or \"probable\".\n\nDespite all of the beneficial impacts to the economy that fantasy football provides, there are some concerns about potential economic drawbacks. The addictive nature and widespread popularity of fantasy football, combined with the relative ease of obtaining information about a manager’s team has led to many hours of lost productivity at work. A rough calculation based estimates regarding the average amount of time team managers spend on their teams, combined with the number of team managers and their average wages puts the estimated impact at about $6 billion in wasted productivity. However, the study admits to being non-scientific and that its estimates are rough. Additionally, managers are often concerned with performance and disappointed when their team does not do well. Smack talk happens between team managers which may inhibit live interaction between co-workers. One example is the institution of the Rodriguez Line, where a team which frequently scores less than optimal points is openly mocked as having a sub-par team. Furthermore, it reports that managers tend to view the impact as a minor distraction. In a poll conducted for the same study asking managers to rate the impact of fantasy football on their workplace from 1-10, about 70% reported a 4 or lower. Less than 8% reported a 7 or 8. No respondents reported a 9 or 10. Additionally, employers can even take advantage of fantasy football by embracing it and starting sanctioned work leagues. This may increase employee morale and loyalty, improving retention rates. This study also reported 40% of respondents considered fantasy football a positive influence in the workplace, with 1 in 5 also saying they have developed valuable business contacts through fantasy football.\n"}
{"id": "42230145", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42230145", "title": "Forces Armées", "text": "Forces Armées\n\nFAD Cotonou is a football club of Benin, playing in the town of Cotonou. They play in the Beninese Second division, the Benin Second Division.\n\nIn 1969 the team has won the Benin Premier League.\n\n\n\nCurrently the team plays at the Stade Charles de Gaulle.\n"}
{"id": "12240691", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12240691", "title": "Green Apes", "text": "Green Apes\n\nThe Green Apes () is the largest supporters' club dedicated to Maccabi Haifa of Israel. The club was started in 2002. Its name reflects the degrading chants directed towards Maccabi supporters. It is presumed that Maccabi Tel-Aviv fans used to degradingly call Maccabi supporters \"Monkeys\" (\"kofim\") in the early 2000s, accusing them for copying their chants. Hardcore Maccabi supporters have adopted this name for themselves as an act of irony directed towards the Tel-Avivians, based upon a precedence set by Ajax Amsterdam fans (who adopted their association to Jews as an irony toward Feynoord fans) .\n\n"}
{"id": "22360208", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22360208", "title": "Guatemala national rugby union team", "text": "Guatemala national rugby union team\n\nThe Guatemala national rugby union team represents Guatemala in rugby union.\n\nIn December, 2007, Guatemala participated in the First Central American Rugby cup. The other competing teams were Panama and Costa Rica A & B. Costa Rica A came first in this tournament, Panama 2nd, Guatemala 3rd, and Costa Rica B 4th. The team was captained by Josh Macy.\n\nIn December, 2008, Guatemala participated in the Central American Tri Nations Cup hosted by Costa Rica. The other competing teams were Venezuela Select 30+ and Costa Rica A & B. Venezuela came first in this tournament, Guatemala 2nd, Costa Rica A 3rd, and Costa Rica B 4th. The team was again captained by Josh Macy.\n\nNationally, in Guatemala there exists about 10 clubs. While the national league collaborates with the Salvadorian team and two others, it's called the Binacional League. \n\n"}
{"id": "27340110", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27340110", "title": "Gulia Tutberidze Stadium", "text": "Gulia Tutberidze Stadium\n\nGulia Tutberidze Stadium is a multi-use stadium in Zugdidi, Georgia. \n"}
{"id": "8754605", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8754605", "title": "Hot stove league", "text": "Hot stove league\n\nIn baseball, hot stove league is the sport's off-season. The phrase does not denote an actual league, but instead calls up images of baseball fans gathering around a hot stove during the cold winter months, discussing their favorite baseball teams and players.\n\nThe term has also come to refer to the wave of off-season player transactions (contract negotiations, re-signings, trades, free agency, etc.) that occur between seasons. Since most free-agent signings and trades occur during the off-season, this time of significant player transactions (including rumors and speculation about possible trades), is often referred to as the \"hot stove league\" or more simply, \"hot stove\".\n\nAccording to Professor James Hardy, the term \"hot stove league\" dates from nineteenth-century small town America when, during the winter, people \"gathered at the general store/post office, sat around an iron pot-bellied stove, and discussed the passing parade. Baseball, along with weather, politics, the police blotter and the churches, belonged in that company\". Hardy states that the term was popularly employed by sportswriters until World War II, after which rural America gave way to larger, urban centers. Baseball analysis and conversation now became the province of radio and television commentators, with off-season chatter becoming less interactive and more impersonal. \n\nAccording to David Anderson, the news and coverage provided by hot stove league newspaper columnists during the first half of the 20th century, when professional football and basketball had not yet come into being, gave baseball its foothold as \"the national pastime and dominant professional sport for more than half of the twentieth century\". The hot stove league was especially important in the era of the reserve clause, when the only leverage a player had to receive more money or better contract provisions was to hold out from re-signing, refuse to play, or threaten to retire. During the off-season, when contract negotiations were underway, the rumors and reports flew fast and furious, and fans kept up with the news through hot stove league chatter. The introduction of free agency reduced the importance of the hot stove league.\n\nIn the twenty-first century, the term is still used to describe the \"endless discussions\", speculation and predictions bandied about by \"baseball fans, baseball columnists, baseball bloggers, baseball writers, baseball podcasters and baseball radio talk show hosts\" to fill the time between the end of the Baseball Winter Meetings and the start of spring training. The MLB Network's daily off-season show of record is called \"Hot Stove\".\n\nHot Stove League was the name of a radio segment featuring hockey chatter and analysis that was broadcast between periods on the radio show \"Hockey Night in Canada\" beginning in 1939. The segment became a pre-game series on CBC Television in the 1950s.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "7437061", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7437061", "title": "Hungary at the 1998 Winter Olympics", "text": "Hungary at the 1998 Winter Olympics\n\nHungary competed at the 1998 Winter Olympics in Nagano, Japan.\n\n\nWomen's combined\n\n"}
{"id": "7733375", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7733375", "title": "Iceland at the 1936 Summer Olympics", "text": "Iceland at the 1936 Summer Olympics\n\nIceland competed at the 1936 Summer Olympics in Berlin, Germany.\n\n"}
{"id": "41875298", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41875298", "title": "India women's national inline hockey team", "text": "India women's national inline hockey team\n\nIndia women's national inline hockey team is the national team for India. The team competed in the 2013 Women's World Inline Hockey Championships.\n"}
{"id": "55971366", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55971366", "title": "International A Match", "text": "International A Match\n\nInternational “A” Match is a match for which both Members field their first Representative Team (“A” Representative Team) in association football.\n\n1872 Scotland vs England football match was known for first International \"A\" Match.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "51441849", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51441849", "title": "International Federation of Cerebral Palsy Football", "text": "International Federation of Cerebral Palsy Football\n\nInternational Federation of Cerebral Palsy Football (IFCPF) is the world governing body for cerebral palsy football. It was founded in January 2015, when the governance of the sport transferred from the Cerebral Palsy International Sports and Recreation Association (CPISRA) to the IFCPF. It is a member organization, with members from five different continental zones. The IFCPF has relationships with other international association football sporting bodies. It organizes tournaments for the sport, and is in charge of Paralympic Games inclusion and participation. The IFCPF is a World Anti-Doping Agency (WADA) signatory, and international footballers may be subject to out-of-competition doping controls.\n\nFrom 1978 to 2014, cerebral palsy football was governed by the CPISRA. In January 2015, governance of the sport was taken over by the newly created International Federation of Cerebral Palsy Football.\n\nThe President of IFCPF is Jan-Hein Evers of Netherlands. The organisation's Secretary General is Sam Turner of England.\n\nThe IFCPF is organized zonally, with members belonging to one of five continental zones. These zones are Africa, the Americas, Asia, Europe and Oceania. These members are often either national cerebral palsy football associations, national cerebral palsy sports federations, national Paralympic committees, or national football associations. The type of member in the IFCPF varies by country.\n\nThe IFCPF has been trying to establish relationships with other international football organizations. In 2016, it signed a Memorandum of Understanding with Asian Football Confederation. Part of this involved the AFC supporting a AFC Youth CP Football Tournament in 2017. In 2014, 2015 and 2016, IFCPF was getting financial support from UEFA.\n\nAmong the activities the organization does is to organize international tournaments for cerebral palsy football. This includes the qualification tournament for the IFCPF World Championships, and the IFCPF World Championships themselves. The IFCPF is in charge of the sport's Paralympic efforts. They set the team qualifying criteria for the Paralympic Games. They were also involved in the request to keep cerebral palsy football on the program for the 2020 Summer Paralympics. The sports removal came as a surprise to the organization.\n\nThe IFCPF is a WADA signatory. In 2016, after getting an endorsement by the World AntiDoping Agency (WADA), the IFCPF Anti-Doping Code was formally amended to allow for out of competition testing. This was done through a WADA approved Whereabouts Programme managed through ADAMS. Drawing from players in a Registered Testing Pool, 10 players from 9 countries were initially included ahead of the 2016 Summer Paralympics in Rio. These countries included Netherlands, Japan, Russia, Iran, Argentina, Ireland, Ukraine, England, and Brazil.\n\nThe IFCPF ranks national teams. Rankings are based on tournament placement, with a factoring done to give additional weight to the Paralympic Games and IFCPF World Championships.\n\nCerebral palsy football has world-wide reach, and is played on all five continents. Many countries have IFCPF recognized national championships and national leagues. In 2010, there were 12 countries with IFCPF recognized competitions. The number grew to 21 by 2015.\n\nCP football\n"}
{"id": "15937050", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15937050", "title": "Investors Group Field", "text": "Investors Group Field\n\nInvestors Group Field is a football stadium in Winnipeg, Manitoba, Canada. The stadium, which opened in 2013, is located on the University of Manitoba campus next to University Stadium. Owned by Triple B Stadium Inc., a consortium of the City of Winnipeg, the Province of Manitoba, the Winnipeg Football Club and the University of Manitoba, the stadium is home to the Winnipeg Blue Bombers of the Canadian Football League (CFL), University of Manitoba Bisons football team, and the Winnipeg Rifles (CJFL). It will also be home to Valour FC of the Canadian Premier League beginning in 2019.\n\nThe stadium has a capacity of 33,500 and is partially covered. The stadium contains a corrugated metal roof, restaurant, 52 suites, walk of fame and other amenities.\n\nThe owners of Canad Inns, a Winnipeg-based hotel business and naming rights holder for the Blue Bombers' former stadium, forwarded a plan in 2007 to redevelop the entire site for commercial use and construct a football stadium for the Blue Bombers in another location. This proposal, although rejected in favour of David Asper's plan, called for a $265 million stadium at the former Public Markets site in the St. Boniface industrial park, which Canad Inns purchased from the city. The domed stadium would have been part of a $500 million complex that would have included a four-star hotel and an indoor water park.\n\nDavid Asper's original proposal involved both federal and provincial government financial contributions ($40 million each), as well as a transfer of assets (the publicly owned Blue Bomber franchise itself will be transferred into Asper's control, and the existing undeveloped commercial real estate surrounding the stadium). As part of Creswin's commitment to the project, Asper pledged to contribute $65 million toward the Maroons Road development. In addition to stadium construction, the Asper proposal included of retail development and a two-level parking facility.\n\nThe Blue Bombers' board of directors investigated the possibility of rebuilding or substantially upgrading the existing stadium, largely with funds generated from the sale or lease of the adjacent commercial lands (the team holds the right to develop this property itself as part of its refinancing agreement with the city of Winnipeg and province of Manitoba). However, being a community owned business, the Bombers organization would have had difficulty in accessing the capital required to move forward with such plans directly. The board placed its plans on hold pending the outcome of Asper's proposal.\n\nThe government was unwilling to grant Asper the $40 million at both the provincial and federal levels because it believed the money to be more of a gift than a grant. Creswin drew up a second proposal, where the same 30,000–40,000-seat stadium would be built instead in south Point Douglas. This new plan, they said, would greatly aid in urban renewal in what is the poorest neighborhood in Winnipeg. There was also a state-of-the-art water park and hotel, commercial buildings and several other new buildings in the multimillion-dollar proposal. However, there was controversy as well because south Point Douglas is an avid art community, and many of the residents did not want their character buildings to be destroyed or suffer the loss of their homes.\n\nA letter of intent was signed on September 13, 2009, between Asper's Creswin Properties and the University of Manitoba, allowing planning to continue for a stadium at the intersection of Chancellor Matheson Drive and University Crescent. The site is adjacent to the current University Stadium, which was built for the 1967 Pan American Games. The new proposal includes the construction of a 33,422-seat stadium, renovation of the existing stadium, and a world-class fitness facility. Inflatable \"bubbles\" covering the playing field will also be made available in both stadiums during the winter months. The cost of the new stadium, was projected to be $115 million.\n\nThe new stadium would also be home of the University of Manitoba Bisons football team. The design allows for expansion to 40,000 seats for the Grey Cup (however for 2015 Grey Cup 36,500 seats were available). The stadium was approved on 2 April 2009. The province of Manitoba later agreed to loan David Asper $90 million in order to guarantee the project would break ground in 2010 and ensure the stadium would open for 2012. CFL Commissioner Mark Cohon, Premier of Manitoba Greg Selinger, David Asper, Mayor of Winnipeg Sam Katz and U of M President David Barnard officially broke ground at the site on May 20, 2010.\nAsper and Creswin were removed from the deal as they made significant changes to the stadium design which broke the original contract. The revised cost amounted to $190 million, with the Winnipeg Blue Bombers paying back $85 million, and the provincial and city levels of government splitting the rest of the costs as previously proposed.\n\nThe new stadium was expected to be ready for the start of the 2012 season. However, on May 2, 2012, the Blue Bombers announced that because of constructions delays, the stadium would not be ready until September, thus forcing the team to play four or five home games at Canad Inns Stadium to start the season. In June 2012, it was announced the stadium would not open until the 2013 season. In December 2013, it was reported the previously-announced inflatable dome had been dropped from the plans in 2012.\n\nIn 2014, the builder, Stuart Olson Dominion, put a $1.9 million lien on the stadium because it claimed it was owed for some of the cost overruns. This dispute was resolved later that year, with the province contributing an additional $1.5 million to cover additional costs incurred during construction, bringing the total cost to $210 million.\n\nOn March 4, 2015, the stadium's ownership group, Triple B Stadium Inc., announced its intention to sue architect Ray Wan and builder Stuart Olson Dominion. In the statement of claim, it cited water damage caused by insufficient drainage in the building, as well as inadequate insulation and \"extensive\" cracking in the concrete among a total of 42 deficiencies. On April 23, Stuart Olson filed a statement of defence denying most of Triple B's allegations, stating the shell company — which represents the city, province, university and the Winnipeg Football Club — made all the key construction decisions, in concert with the province, which paid for most of the construction up front. Stuart Olson also alleged political and financial factors led the province to rush the job and reduce its budget.\n\nOn October 27, 2015, the government of Manitoba announced it would pay $35 million to repair the stadium. It would then seek compensation for this further outlay of money from the proceeds of the aforementioned lawsuit.\n\nThe Blue Bombers played their first home game at Investors Group Field on June 27, 2013, losing 38–33 to the Montreal Alouettes. \n\nIn March 2014, it was confirmed that Investors Group Field would host the 2015 Grey Cup. \n\nInvestors Group Field hosted the fourth instalment of the National Hockey League (NHL)'s Heritage Classic on October 23, 2016, in which the Winnipeg Jets lost 3–0 to the Edmonton Oilers in front of a sold-out crowd. The Classic's customary alumni game was played a day earlier and featured players from the former Jets franchise returning to Winnipeg to play the Oilers alumni team. The Jets alumni, led by Teemu Selänne and Dale Hawerchuk, defeated Wayne Gretzky's Oilers squad 6–5 in a shootout.\n\nThe Canada women's national soccer team played their first match at Investors Group Field on May 8, 2014, against the United States, with the result in a tie (1–1); this match was the stadium's first soccer game. In June 2015, Winnipeg was one of six Canadian cities that hosted the FIFA Women's World Cup. The first four matches of Group D—between the United States, Australia, Sweden and Nigeria—were contested at Investors Group Field, followed by three matches from various other groups. Due to FIFA's policy regarding commercial sponsorship of stadium names, the Investors Group Field was referred to as \"Winnipeg Stadium\" during the World Cup.\n\n2015 FIFA Women's World Cup\n\nThe stadium hosted its first event on May 26, 2013, with the One Heart Winnipeg celebration, a multi-denominational church service organized by several local church groups.\n"}
{"id": "35953252", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35953252", "title": "King of the World (film)", "text": "King of the World (film)\n\nKing of the World is an American television film which aired on January 10, 2000 on ABC. It chronicles the early stages of the career of heavyweight boxer Muhammad Ali (then known as Cassius Clay), who is portrayed by Terrence Howard. It is based upon a biography of the same name by David Remnick.\n\n\nHaving won the gold medal for boxing in the light heavyweight division at the 1960 Summer Olympics in Rome, Kentucky native Cassius Clay (Terrence Howard) challenges professional heavyweight boxing champion Sonny Liston (Steve Harris) for the title. The media is both intrigued and repulsed by his brash manner and what appears to be self-worship. Despite being a heavy underdog, the 22-year-old Clay shocks the sports world by defeating Liston by technical knockout in their February 1964 bout, becoming heavyweight champion and (metaphorically) \"king of the world\".\n\nAlthough it is an American film, \"King of the World\" was released on DVD in Region 2 format, which is used predominately in Europe. It has yet to be released in Region 1 format, which is compatible with DVD players used in the United States and Canada.\n"}
{"id": "25399984", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25399984", "title": "List of foreign Primeira Liga players", "text": "List of foreign Primeira Liga players\n\nThis is a list of foreign players that have played in the Portuguese Primeira Liga.\n\nPlayers in bold are the ones that have international caps for their senior national team.\nClubs in bold are the current clubs of those players.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "28718613", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28718613", "title": "Midland Bank Sports Ground", "text": "Midland Bank Sports Ground\n\nMidland Bank Sports Ground is a sports ground in Beckenham in the London Borough of Bromley. The ground is owned by HSBC bank and is now known as the HSBC Sports and Social Club. The ground was used for one First XI cricket match by Kent County Cricket Club and hosted one match in the 1993 Women's Cricket World Cup.\n\nIt is located around north-west of Beckenham town centre on Lennard Road. The Mid-Kent railway line runs along the eastern edge of the ground with New Beckenham railway station adjacent to the south-east corner. The River Pool runs along the western edge the ground.\n\nThe ground was established in 1920 by the London Joint City and Midland Bank Sports Association, an organisation which dated back to 1871 and became the Midland Bank Sports association in 1923. The first recorded cricket match on the ground was in 1930 when the Club Cricket Conference played the Universities Athletic Union.\n\nThe ground hosted a single List-A cricket match when Kent County Cricket Club beat Lancashire in a rain affected match in the 1970 John Player League. The ground was used as part of the centenary celebrations of the Midland Bank Sports association. The match saw Kent win by scoring more runs in the first nine overs of their innings than Lancashire had scored in their first ten overs, scoring 58 for 1 wicket. The result attracted some controversy because technically Kent had to bat for 10 overs before able to claim a win.\n\nBeckenham was part of Kent until 1965 and the county has played matches at a number of grounds in what it describes as \"Metropolitan Kent\". It maintains a current base at the Kent County Cricket Ground, Beckenham from the ground.\n\nDuring the 1993 Women's Cricket World Cup the ground held a single Women's One Day International when Australia women were beaten by New Zealand women. Debbie Hockley, who top-scored with 38 not out, and Penny Kinsella passed the Australian total of 77 without losing a wicket. Julie Harris took 3 wickets for 15 runs from nine overs for New Zealand as they knocked the favourites Australia out of the tournament in the final series of round-robin matches.\n\nIn local cricket, the ground is the home venue of HSBC Cricket Club who play in the Kent Cricket League. This site includes three cricket pitches as well as a number of net areas. As well as cricket, a number of other sports are played at the ground, including hockey, football, tennis and squash. An astroturf pitch is used by New Beccehamian Hockey Club.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "41839306", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41839306", "title": "Naisten Korisliiga", "text": "Naisten Korisliiga\n\nNaisten Korisliiga (English: \"Women's Basketball League\") is the highest tier of women's basketball in Finland. The competition was formerly known as Naisten SM-sarja (English: \"Women's Finnish Championship\") and was renamed to Naisten Korisliiga for the 2013-14 season.\n\nWomen's Finnish Championship was first introduced in 1944. The first championship was won by Helsingin Tarmo. In the 1940s, the league had six teams and the title was awarded after the regular season. In 1953 the number of teams was raised to ten. Postseason playoffs were first played in the 1973-74 season, with Nokian Urheilijat emerging victorious after defeating first Tapiolan Honka (2-1) in the Semifinals and then Työväen Mailapojat (2-1) in the Finals.\n\nFor the 2014-15 season, the league has 10 teams and each team plays each other three times in the regular season, resulting in 27 games per team. The top 8 teams continue to postseason playoffs which are played in Best-of-five format. The team placed last after the regular season is relegated to Naisten I Divisioona (English: \"Women's First Division\").\n\nLea Hakala could be seen as the most influential player so far in the history of Naisten Korisliiga. Hakala played 25 seasons in the league and currently leads the record for career points. She has won the championship title for record-breaking 15 times and she has also been awarded the Player of the Year Award for 4 times.\n\n\n\n\n\"All records include both regular season and playoffs. Updated as of season 2013-14 \"\n\n"}
{"id": "27610056", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27610056", "title": "Niger at the Paralympics", "text": "Niger at the Paralympics\n\nNiger made its Paralympic Games début at the 2004 Summer Paralympics in Athens. It was represented by a single athlete, male sprinter Zoubeirou Issaka, who competed in the 100m race, in the T12 category for the nearly blind. His time of 13.90 was the slowest overall in the heats, ending his participation in the Games.\n\nIn 2008, Niger was represented only by male powerlifter Zakari Amadou, in the up to 67.5 kg category. He lifted 110 kg, ranking 13th and last of those who successfully lifted a weight.\n\nNiger has never taken part in the Winter Paralympics.\n\nNiger will be taking part in the 2012 Summer Paralympics, and the Fédération Nigérienne des Sports Paralympiques have chosen Bedford as the UK training base for its Paralympians.\n\n"}
{"id": "26876995", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26876995", "title": "Phichit Provincial Stadium", "text": "Phichit Provincial Stadium\n\nPhichit Provincial Stadium (), is a stadium located in Phichit, Thailand. It is currently used for football matches. The stadium holds 15,000 spectators.\n\n"}
{"id": "3727494", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3727494", "title": "Philippine Basketball Association Most Valuable Player award", "text": "Philippine Basketball Association Most Valuable Player award\n\nThe Philippine Basketball Association Most Valuable Player (MVP) is an annual Philippine Basketball Association (PBA) award given since the start of the league in 1975 to the best performing player of the season. The award is decided using criteria introduced since the 2011–12 season, which include accumulated statistical points, votes from media, players and the league's Commissioner's Office. , the current holder of the award is June Mar Fajardo, his fourth consecutive MVP award since 2014.\n\nNote that the league's seasons have three tournaments (or conferences), so the regular NBA application of having a regular season MVP and a Finals MVP and the meaning of \"conference\" does not apply here. The season MVP is for the \"whole\" season, including the regular season, the playoffs and the Finals of each Conference, although there is a Best Player of the Conference award for each conference, and a Best Import award for conferences where imports are allowed play.\n\nRamon Fernandez, Alvin Patrimonio and June Mar Fajardo won the most number of MVP awards with four each. Only one rookie have own the award: Benjie Paras in the season\n\nAs with other annual awards given by the league, the winner receives The Leo Trophy, which is named in honor of the first commissioner of the PBA who served from 1975 until his retirement in 1983.\n\nThe criteria used since the 2011–12 PBA season are as follows:\n\nStatistical points (SP) are computed as follows:\n\nIn addition, a Filipino player can only be eligible for awards if he played in at least 70% of his team's games.\n\nMVP voting begins at the start of the Finals series of the last conference. All statistical points gathered from all levels of competition (elimination/classification round and playoffs) are included.\n\nThe winner was selected by the following format (before 2006):\n\nWith controversies with the selections, a new format was created starting at the 2006–07 season:\n"}
{"id": "37986082", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37986082", "title": "Professionalism in association football", "text": "Professionalism in association football\n\nAssociation football is the world's most popular sport, and is worth US$600 billion worldwide. By the end of the 20th century it was played by over 250 million players in over 200 countries. Around the world, the sport is played at a professional level by professional footballers, and millions of people regularly go to football stadiums to follow their favourite football teams, while billions more watch the sport on television or on the internet. Football has the highest global television audience in sport. The sport had amateur origins and evolved into the modern professional competition.\n\nAssociation football was first codified in 1863, with the formation of the Football Association (FA) in England. At this time the sport was played mainly by public schools, or teams with public school roots, and amateurism was the norm. This remained the case until the 1880s, when working-class teams began to vie for supremacy. Blackburn Olympic, a team composed mainly of factory workers, won the 1883 FA Cup Final. They were the first working-class team to win the competition since its inception in 1870. Though professionalism was not permitted, Olympic arranged jobs for their players, and supplemented their income with additional payments, a common occurrence among Lancashire clubs.\n\nThe differences between the amateur idealists from southern England and the increasingly professionalised teams from northern industrial towns came to a head in 1884. After Preston North End won an FA Cup match against Upton Park, the Londoners protested, seeking the result to be overturned due to the presence of paid players in the Preston ranks. This sparked a series of events which threatened to split the FA. Preston withdrew from the competition, and fellow Lancashire clubs Burnley and Great Lever followed suit. The protest gathered momentum, to the point where more than 30 clubs, predominantly from the north, announced that they would set up a rival British Football Association if the FA did not permit professionalism. 18 months later the FA relented, and in July 1885 professionalism was formally legalised in England.\n\nThough English clubs employed professionals, the Scottish Football Association continued to forbid the practice. Consequently, many Scottish players migrated southward. At first the FA put residential restrictions in place to prevent this, but these were abandoned by 1889. In the inaugural season of the Football League (1888–89), champions Preston North End fielded ten Scottish professionals. The Scottish FA lifted its ban on professionalism in 1893, whereupon 560 players were registered as professionals.\nThis table details the year in which professionalism was introduced, country by country.\n\"See also Professional sports#Association football\"\n\n"}
{"id": "50235072", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50235072", "title": "Sara Raposeiro", "text": "Sara Raposeiro\n\nSara Raposeiro (born ) is a Portuguese female artistic gymnast, representing her nation at international competitions. \n\nShe competed at the 2014 Summer Youth Olympics, and at world championships, including the 2015 World Artistic Gymnastics Championships in Glasgow.\n\n"}
{"id": "55500409", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55500409", "title": "Sharikat Naft Al-Basra", "text": "Sharikat Naft Al-Basra\n\nSharikat Naft Al-Basra (), was an Iraqi football team based in Basra. They became Iraq's first ever official national champions when they won the one-off 1949 Iraq FA Championship that was played between teams from across the country rather than from a specific province or region like other Iraqi competitions before 1974. The team no longer exists.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "48703550", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48703550", "title": "Spoiling the Game", "text": "Spoiling the Game\n\nSpoiling the Game (German: Strich durch die Rechnung) is a 1932 German comedy film directed by Alfred Zeisler and starring Heinz Rühmann, Toni van Eyck and Hermann Speelmans. Its hero is a young cyclist who enters a race.\n\nIt was made by German's largest film company UFA. The film's sets were designed by the art directors Willi Herrmann and Herbert Lippschitz. A separate French-language version \"\" was also released.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1922881", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1922881", "title": "Tempe Diablo Stadium", "text": "Tempe Diablo Stadium\n\nTempe Diablo Stadium is a baseball field located in Tempe, Arizona. It is the spring training home of the Los Angeles Angels of Anaheim and the home field for night games of the Arizona League Tempe Angels. It was the spring training home of the Seattle Pilots in 1969 and 1970 (the Pilots moved to Milwaukee late in spring training of March 1970 and prior to the 1970 regular season), the Milwaukee Brewers in 1971 and 1972, and the Seattle Mariners from 1977 through 1993; the Mariners now play at the Peoria Sports Complex, with the San Diego Padres.\n\nThe stadium was built in 1968 and holds 9,558 people. The stadium underwent an extensive $20 million renovation and was rededicated on Mar. 3, 2006. The renovation included the main stadium, the Major League Fields and the Minor League Complex on site. In return for the newly updated stadium, the Angels agreed to extend their spring training lease through Dec. 31, 2025. $12 million of the renovations were funded by the Arizona Sports and Tourism Authority, a municipal corporation charged with funding renovations of Cactus League stadiums throughout Maricopa County.\n\nTempe Diablo Stadium can be seen from the Maricopa Freeway.\n\n"}
{"id": "47223521", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47223521", "title": "The White Hope (1915 film)", "text": "The White Hope (1915 film)\n\nThe White Hope is a 1915 British silent sports film directed by Frank Wilson and starring Stewart Rome, Violet Hopson and Lionelle Howard. It is set in the world of boxing.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4422343", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4422343", "title": "Tunisia at the 1992 Summer Olympics", "text": "Tunisia at the 1992 Summer Olympics\n\nTunisia competed at the 1992 Summer Olympics in Barcelona, Spain.\n\n"}
{"id": "51564496", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51564496", "title": "Turbo Time", "text": "Turbo Time\n\nTurbo Time is a 1983 Italian documentary film directed by Antonio Climati as James Davis and written by Mario Morra and .\n\nDocumentary about the world of car and motorcycle racing, accompanied by interviews with several champions of these sports.\n\nThe film was released in Italy on September 29, 1983\n\n"}
{"id": "2101471", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2101471", "title": "University Ground", "text": "University Ground\n\nThe University Ground () was a test cricket stadium in Lucknow, India. \n\nThe first and the only international Test match was played on 23–26 October 1952 between India and Pakistan. The venue, however, was not as popular as Green Park Stadium in the nearby city of Kanpur which hosted most of the Test matches. \n\nThe stadium lies on the banks of the River Gomti. In 1994, the K.D. Singh Babu Stadium took its place as the city's premier cricket ground. The ground has a seating capacity of 52,000.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "33185843", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33185843", "title": "Unión Coquimbo", "text": "Unión Coquimbo\n\nClub Social, Cultural y Deportivo Unión Coquimbo is a Chilean Football club, their home town is Coquimbo, Chile.\n\nThe club were founded on \"September 1, 2010\".\n\n"}
{"id": "4672435", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4672435", "title": "Vångavallen", "text": "Vångavallen\n\nVångavallen is a multi-purpose stadium in Trelleborg, Sweden. It is currently used mostly for football matches and is the home stadium of Trelleborgs FF. The stadium was opened on 5 June 1933. It has a capacity of 7,000 spectators, 3,000 of which is seated.\n"}
{"id": "19289256", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19289256", "title": "Warrior knife", "text": "Warrior knife\n\nThe Warrior knife is a large curved blade fighting knife with a serrated back edge that was first made by Al Mar Knives and Round Eye Knife and Tool (REKAT). Part of the knife's design is credited to martial arts instructor Michael Echanis.\n\nThe Warrior knife was designed by custom knife maker, Vietnam combat veteran, and close combat instructor Bob Taylor and Hwarang-do expert Randy Wanner. The blade is distinctive in that the entire rear portion of the blade has a serrated edge, that was added at the suggestion of Wanner's Hwarang-do student Michael D. Echanis and is the reason why the knife has the informal name \"Echanis' Warrior\". Al Mar was an edged-weapons specialist in the U.S. Army Special Forces, a 5th degree black belt in Judo when he started Al Mar Knives in 1978 and began work on the famous and highly sought after \"Warrior\" knife. In his book, Battle Blades, Greg Walker[3] refers to the Al Mar Warrior as, \"perhaps the ultimate in battle-blade design. \n\nIn addition to the rear serrations used for trapping an opponents' attacking limb, the knife is noted for having an extremely ergonomic handle for use in both the forward and reverse grip. The handle was designed by making a complex study of the human hand through a COBOL computer program and this design has gone on to influence other fighting knives such as Emerson Knives' CQC-8 model.\n\nThe original version was made by Al Mar Knives and had either a polished or blackened blade with either a black or camouflage rubber handle.\n\nRound Eye Knife and Tool made a smaller version known as the \"Hobbit Warrior\" and a folding version known as the \"Pocket Hobbit\".\n\nSpyderco knives makes a version of this knife.\n"}
{"id": "50460", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50460", "title": "Winchester College", "text": "Winchester College\n\nWinchester College is an independent boarding school for boys in the British public school tradition, situated in Winchester, Hampshire. It has existed in its present location for over 600 years. It is the oldest of the original seven English public schools defined by the Clarendon Commission and regulated by the Public Schools Act 1868.\n\nAccording to its statutes, the school is called in Latin Collegium Sanctae Mariae prope Wintoniam, or Collegium Beatae Mariae Wintoniensis prope Winton, which translates as St Mary's College, near Winchester, or The College of the Blessed Mary of Winchester, near Winchester. It is sometimes referred to by pupils, former pupils and others as \"Win: Coll:\", and is more widely known as just \"Winchester\".\n\nWinchester College was founded in 1382 by William of Wykeham, Bishop of Winchester and Chancellor to both Edward III and Richard II, and the first 70 poor scholars entered the school in 1394. In the early 15th century the specific requirements was that that scholars come from families where the income was less than five marks sterling (£3 6s 8d) \"per annum\"; in comparison, the contemporary reasonable living for a yeoman was £5 \"per annum\". It was founded in conjunction with New College, Oxford, for which it was designed to act as a feeder: the buildings of both colleges were designed by master mason William Wynford. This double foundation was the model for Eton College and King's College, Cambridge, some 50 years later, and for Westminster School, Christ Church, Oxford, and Trinity College, Cambridge, in Tudor times.\n\nIn addition to the 70 scholars and 16 \"Quiristers\" (choristers), the statutes provided for ten \"noble Commoners\". These Commoners (\"Commoners \"in Collegio\"\") were paying guests of the Headmaster or Second Master in his official apartments in College. Other paying pupils (\"Commoners \"extra Collegium\"\"), either guests of one of the Masters in his private house or living in lodgings in town, grew in numbers till the late 18th century, when they were all required to live in \"Old Commoners\" and town boarding was banned. In the 19th century this was replaced by \"New Commoners\", and the numbers fluctuated between 70 and 130: the new building was compared unfavourably to a workhouse, and as it was built over an underground stream, epidemics of typhus and malaria were common.\n\nIn the late 1850s four boarding houses were planned (but only three built: those referred to as A, B and C), to be headed by housemasters: the plan, since dropped, was to increase the number of scholars to 100 so that there would be \"College\", \"Commoners\" and \"Houses\" consisting of 100 pupils each. In the 1860s \"New Commoners\" was closed and converted to classrooms, and its members were divided among four further boarding houses (D, E, G and H, collectively known as \"Commoner Block\"). At the same time two more houses (F and I) were acquired and added to the \"Houses\" category (more formally known as Old Tutors' Houses or O.T.H.); a tenth (K) was acquired in 1905 and allotted to \"Commoners\". (The distinction between \"Commoners\" and \"Houses\" is now of purely sporting significance (see Winchester College Football), and \"a Commoner\" now means any pupil who is not a scholar.) There are therefore now ten houses in addition to College, which continues to occupy the original 14th-century buildings, and the total number of pupils is almost 700. From the late 1970s there has been a continual process of extension to and upgrading of College Chambers.\n\nThe Scholars live in the original buildings, known as College; an individual scholar is known as a \"Collegeman\". College is not usually referred to as a house: hence the terms 'housemaster of College' and 'College house' are not generally used. The housemaster of College is now known as the 'Master in College', though these duties formerly belonged to the Second Master. Within the school, 'College' refers only to the body of scholars (and their buildings); 'Winchester College' and 'the college' refer to the school as a whole.\n\nEvery pupil at Winchester, apart from the Scholars, lives in a boarding house, chosen or allocated when applying to Winchester. It is here that he studies, eats and sleeps. Each house is presided over by a housemaster (who takes on the role in addition to teaching duties) and a number of house tutors (usually five or six – Mon to Fri). Houses compete in school competitions, mostly in sporting competitions. Each house has an official name, usually based on the family name of the first housemaster, which is used mainly as a postal address. Each house also has an informal name, which is more frequently used in speech, usually based on the name or nickname of an early housemaster. Each house also has a letter assigned to it, in the order of their founding, to act as an abbreviation, especially on laundry tags. A member of a house is described by the informal name of the house with \"-ite\" suffixed, as \"a Furleyite\", \"a Toyeite\", \"a Cookite\" and so on. The houses have been ordered by their year of founding. College does not have an informal name, although the abbreviation \"Coll\" is sometimes used, especially on written work. It also has a letter assigned to it, X, but it is considered bad form to use this except as a laundry mark or in lists of sporting fixtures. \n\nEach house also had a set of house colours, which adorned the ribbon worn around boys' \"strats\" (straw hats). The wearing of strats was abolished for Commoners in around 1984 – Collegemen had ceased to wear them years earlier. They can however still occasionally be seen being sported on Winchester Day. House colours are now used on socks and \"pussies\", scarves awarded for exceptional contribution to the house or society.\n\nWinchester has its own entrance examination, and does not use Common Entrance like other major public schools. Those wishing to enter a Commoner House make their arrangements with the relevant housemaster some two years before sitting the exam, usually sitting a test set by the housemaster and an interview. Those applying to College do not take the normal entrance examination but instead sit a separate, harder, exam called \"Election\": successful candidates may obtain, according to their performance, a scholarship, an exhibition or a Headmaster's nomination to join a Commoner House (without remission of fees).\n\nAdmission to College is on academic merit, as measured in the Election examination, regardless of financial means, though the original statutes specified that the foundation existed for \"poor\" scholars and required entrants to take an oath that their net income did not exceed a figure chosen as the average income for the time. Scholars enjoyed a remission of fees, amounting for much of the 20th century to two-thirds of the total. This remission has since been progressively reduced, and is due to be abolished altogether. The intention is to maintain the academic and institutional distinction between Scholars and Commoners, while using the money saved to fund bursaries for those pupils least able to pay, Scholars and Commoners alike.\n\nUntil the 1860s the predominant subject of instruction was classics, and there was one main schoolroom used as both the classroom and the place of preparation, under extremely noisy conditions: there were adjacent rooms used for French and mathematics. Under the headmastership of George Ridding proper classrooms were built, and pupils had the option of joining \"Parallel Div\" for the study of history and modern languages. Later still a \"Sen: Science Div\" was added. Science teaching at Winchester had a high reputation: one of the early science masters duplicated the experiments of Hertz about radio waves, the equipment for which is still preserved at Science School.\n\nFor much of the 20th century the senior forms were divided among three \"ladders\": the A ladder for classics, the B ladder for history and modern languages and the C ladder for mathematics and science. There was also a vertical division, in descending order, into Sixth Book (equivalent to the sixth form at other schools), Senior Part, Middle Part and Junior Part: depending on ability, new boys were placed in either Junior or Middle Part.\n\nThe school now offers a wide range of subjects, and no longer has a system of ladders. In 2008 it abandoned A-level as its matriculation credential and adopted the Cambridge Pre-U on the grounds that this will strengthen the quality of the school's intellectual life. In addition to normal lessons, all boys throughout the school are required to attend a class called Division (Div for short) which focuses on parts of history, literature, and politics that do not lead to external examinations; its purpose is to ensure a broad education that does not focus solely on examinations.\n\nExam results are 75.4% at D3 level or above in 2016, with 49.7% at D1 or D2, equivalent to an A* or above at A Level. In 2016, GCSE results were 94.1% of grades at A* or A, with 69.1% at A*. The school offers the shortest list of exam subjects of any reputable sixth form in England. Chemistry and physics are the most popular Pre-U subjects, closely followed by history and English literature. Philosophy and theology are also popular. There is no great number of GCSE choices either: all boys sit IGCSEs in at least two of three sciences, Maths, English, GCSE Latin, and usually three or four other subjects which include: modern foreign languages, Greek, Geography, Art, DT and Music.\n\nPre U summary: last five years\n\nA-level equivalents: D1=A*+ D2=A* D3=A M1=A/B M2=B/C M3=C P1=C/D P2=D P3=E U=U\n\nSituated on the south side of Chamber Court, the chapel is part of the original college buildings and retains its original wooden fan-vaulted ceiling. Built to accommodate just over 100 people, it long ago became too small to accommodate the whole school (currently 690 boys). Additional seating installed in the re-ordering and extension carried out by the Victorian architect Butterfield allows the chapel to seat 320 people. On Sundays half the houses worship in Chapel, while the other half worship (at the same time) in St Michael's Church (known as \"Michla\"), a redundant parish church central among the boarding houses, which the College took over in the last century. Weekly choral services are sung by the Choir in Chapel on Tuesdays and by the Quiristers on Thursday and Saturday evenings in Fromond's Chantry, which is in the middle of the cloisters. Roman Catholic boys attend mass every Sunday morning in St Michael's Church.\n\nA striking feature of the chapel is its stained glass. The East window depicts the stem of Jesse. Down the chapel's north and south sides is a collection of saints. Little of the original medieval glass, designed by Thomas Glazier, survives. A firm of glaziers in Shrewsbury was tasked with cleaning the glass in the 1820s. At that time there was no known process for cleaning the badly deteriorated glass and so it was copied, while most of the original glass was scattered or destroyed. Some pieces have been recovered. The south west corner holds the largest piece, bought and donated by Kenneth Clark. Five other figures bequeathed by Otto von Kienbusch and two more donated by Coleorton Church, Leicestershire were placed in Fromond's Chantry in 1978.\n\nUntil Victorian times the chapel was divided into a chapel and ante-chapel, and had decorative panelling. This panelling was recovered by the school in the 1960s and used in the building of New Hall, the school concert hall, the design of which was specifically planned so as to house it.\n\nThe Chapel Choir sings regular services in the Chapel, as well as other venues. This consists of sixteen Quiristers (who attend The Pilgrims' School) and a similar number of senior boys and a few dons (masters). A non-quirister choir sings the services in St Michael's Church.\n\nThe exterior of the Chapel and the Hall underwent extensive restoration of the stonework at the end of the twentieth century.\n\nSituated to the west of Meads, this cloister serves as a memorial to the Wykehamist dead of the two World Wars. It was designed by Sir Herbert Baker and dedicated in 1924 and again in 1948.\n\nA bronze bust of Old Boy Air Chief Marshal Lord Dowding sits on the west side of the cloister.\n\nWar Cloister occupies a strategic position on Kingsgate Street (accessed via \"South Africa Gate\", which commemorates the Wykehamist dead of the 1899–1902 Boer War), so that most Commoners go through it on their way to and from class. (Furleyites, Beloeites and Freddyites tend to walk past the Common Room and the Queen Elizabeth II theatre, then along Meads Path.)\n\nAnother older war memorial in the school is the entry chamber to Chapel, known as \"Crimea\" after the Crimean War of 1853-56, and bearing the names of Wykehamists who died at the siege of Sebastopol.\n\nTraditionally there were always 18 prefects in College, though since the mid-20th century there have been fewer, 10 to 14 being typical. Of these, five (later increased to six) hold salaried offices. Historically, these were as follows, in descending order of seniority:\n\n\nThe post of Jun: Cap: Prae: (junior chapel prefect) has recently been abolished and has been replaced by \"Ollae Praefectus\" (Oll: Prae:), which literally translates as \"prefect of tub\". (This is the revival of an ancient office, which was suppressed in the 19th century when the office of Bib: Prae: was created. The duties were to do with catering, especially the disposal of uneaten food from College lunch, which was collected in a special wooden vat and given to the poor. This vat or tub is still on display in College Hall.)\n\nEach Officer, in addition to his specialized duties, has charge of a College Chamber (day-room). Thus when IVth Chamber was reopened, increasing the number of chambers to six, a sixth Officer was created, the \"Coll: Lib: Prae:\", in charge of Upper Coll: Lib: (the fiction library available to Collegemen). The post had previously existed informally, but the holder used not to rank as an Officer.\n\nFormerly, there were one or two (originally five) further prefects \"in full power\", invariably, though improperly, known as Co: Praes. Officers and Co: Praes had authority throughout the school; the remaining prefects had authority only in College. Nowadays, while there are still six officers, they have little to do with the running of the school and are mainly responsible for their respective chambers, and there are no other College Co: Praes. In practice, only the Prefect of Hall has significant duties outside College.\n\nThe present practice is for all fifth-years in College to be prefects. Each officer nominates a prefect from those members of his year who are not officers to act as his deputy within his chamber; any prefects left over are sometimes known as \"Jemimas\" (reason unknown). The seven senior inferiors (non-prefects) in College are known as \"Custodes Candelarum\" (tollykeepers), but this is a purely nominal dignity. The next senior person in a chamber after the prefects and tollykeepers was once known as the \"in loco\", and kept the accounts for Chamber Tea.\n\nOutside College there is a \"Sen: Co: Prae:\" (Senior Commoner Prefect), who acts as joint Head Boy with the Prefect of Hall. There are then a number of \"Co: Praes\" (Commensalibus Praefecti, Commoner Prefects) with authority over all Commoners: traditionally, no Commoner has authority over any Collegeman. Nowadays, there is generally only one Co: Prae: per house, who acts as the senior house prefect. However, in the house where the \"Sen: Co: Prae:\" is resident, there is sometimes another \"Co: Prae:\" who has been nominated as the Head of House. In addition, each house has a number of House Prefects, with authority only in that house. The Co: Praes (heads of houses) meet weekly together with the Prefect of Hall and Head Master to discuss the running of the school.\n\nA \"notion\" is a manner or tradition peculiar to Winchester College. The word notion is also used to refer to unique and peculiar words used (with diminishing frequency) in the school. An example is \"toytime\", meaning prep or homework, from the 'toys' or individual cubicles that formerly served as pupils' workspace in the communal chamber, or 'mugging hall' for Commoners. \"Notions\" can also refer to more recent slang, some of which features the altering of vowels in certain words for facetious emphasis.\n\nThe Notions Test was until recently an important tradition in most houses, in which juniors were required to answer questions about notions. Although now banned on various grounds including the European human rights conventions, the test was usually administered to new boys during their first term at the school by more senior boys, and aimed to test and demonstrate their familiarity with the vocabulary, history and traditions of the school. College Notions was more elaborate and continued for a few years longer than the Commoner tests. It took the form of an end-of-term celebration and marked the point at which new Collegemen formally became known as Jun: Men.\n\nCurrent pupils of Winchester College are known as Wykehamists, in memory of the school's founder, William of Wykeham; former pupils are known as Old Wykehamists, or amongst themselves as Old Woks.\n\nWinchester College has its own game, Winchester College football (also known as 'Win: Co: Fo:' or, more recently, 'Winkies'), played only at Winchester. It is played in Common Time (the spring term), the main game in Short Half (the autumn term) being Association football. In Cloister Time (the summer term) the main sports are tennis and cricket.\n\nWinchester Football could be considered a cross between football and rugby, though this analogy shouldn't be taken too far since there are significant differences. For example, the ball can only be carried, like in rugby, if caught full toss. Furthermore, no football-type \"dribbling\" is allowed since the player may not touch the ball more than once at a time. Neither can the ball be passed to a team-mate, except by back-heeling to a teammate behind. Furthermore, a player who finds himself upfield must return to the point at which his teammate last kicked the ball before being able to join in the game again, unless in the interim an opposite player has touched the ball. The current form of the game can be played by teams of 6, 9, 10, 11, or 15. There are also rugby-type scrums known as \"hots\", which feature 8 forwards in the 15-player version and 3 in the 6-player version of the game. The objective is to kick the ball over the opponent's goal line (\"worms\"). The field (\"canvas\") is 73 m (240 ft) long and 24.5 m (60 ft) wide. It is delimited lengthwise by canvas netting and by posts threaded with a heavy rope that run parallel 1 metre inside the netting, and 1 metre above the ground.\n\nThere is also a distinctive Winchester version of Fives, resembling Rugby Fives but with a buttress on the court. Winchester currently has 4 active Winchester fives courts. It has been claimed that Rugby Fives and Winchester Fives are both forms of \"Wessex Fives\", and that Thomas Arnold took with him the game of Wessex Fives he played as a boy at what is now Warminster School when he became the Headmaster of Rugby School.\n\nIn 1647, a Latin poem by Robert Matthew contains a probable reference to cricket being played by pupils of Winchester College on nearby St Catherine’s Hill. If authentic, this is the earliest known mention of cricket in the county of Hampshire.\n\nAt one time Winchester was one of the Lord's schools, competing in a trilateral cricket tournament with Eton and Harrow; and for this reason the first cricket eleven is still known as \"Lords\" (with or without the apostrophe). Since 1855 Winchester has not taken part in this, instead playing Eton alternately at the two schools. Eton Match, when played at Winchester, was until recently the major event attended by Old Wykehamists and the main showcase for the school and its activities, but now most of the non-cricket-related functions have been moved to \"Wykeham Day\" in the autumn. Eton Match itself has now been replaced by \"Winchester Day\", featuring a match between Wykehamists and Old Wykehamists. The cricket ground has held one first-class match, held in 1875 when Hampshire played Kent.\n\nRackets is also played. Should the same person be Captain of Lord's and Captain of Rackets, he is known as \"Lord of Lords and Prince of Princes\", in allusion to Prince's Club in London.\n\nThe \"Winchester Ice Club\" was formed in 1904 by R. L. G. Irving; amongst its first members was George Mallory, who later died on .\n\nPupils of the school in their second year are currently required to serve in the College's Combined Cadet Force.\n\nThe organisation was founded in 1860 as \"The Winchester College Rifle Volunteer Corps\" by various boys in their top year as a result of the perceived threat of Napoleon III after the Orsini plot, and remained entirely autonomous until it was taken over by the Second Master in 1868. It was enrolled as a Cadet Corps in the 1st Hants Volunteer Battalion. In 1908, the Officer Training Corps was established, and by 1914, through the request of the War Office that Senior Cadets be given appropriate training for the war effort, almost every student became involved in the Corps, though it was never explicitly compulsory. In the Second World War, it was renamed as \"The Junior Training Corps\", though its function was still to prepare boys for Officer responsibilities. Montgomery remarked on inspecting the Corps in 1946 that there was \"latent leadership in all ranks\". In 1948, the \"Junior Training Corps\" became known as the \"Combined Cadet Force\" (CCF) which incorporated RAF and RN sections. In 1963, \"Alternative Service Activities\" were introduced for boys who did not want to join the CCF. Pupils were made eligible to opt out of the CCF at the end of their second year after starting at the beginning of the year: this is still the school's policy. In 2010, Winchester's Combined Cadet Force received the Queen's Colours, a regimental decoration.\n\nSee List of Old Wykehamists\n\nThe school song is \"Dulce Domum\", which is sung on the approach of and at the break-up of the school for the summer holidays, and on other occasions when a school song is normally sung. It is also sung at Abingdon School, Twyford School and Stamford School under similar circumstances, and was popular among 19th-century English public schoolboys. For example, it is mentioned in the early chapters of \"Tom Brown's School Days\". Paradoxically, although the subject of the song is the joy of breaking from the school grind and returning home for the holidays, it is often taken as symbolising the idyllic, nostalgic view of English public school life in the 19th century. It should not be confused with another song of the same name, but with completely different tune and lyrics, written by Robert S. Ambrose.\n\nThe traditional tune was composed by John Reading. A new tune, by Malcolm Archer, was officially adopted by the school in about 2007.\n\nAccording to legend, the text was composed in the 17th century by a pupil who was confined for misconduct during the Whitsun holidays. (In one account, he was tied to a pillar.) It is said that he carved the words on the bark of a tree, which was thereafter called \"Domum Tree\", and cast himself into Logie (the river running through the school grounds). There is still a \"Domum Cottage\" in that area.\n\nThe chorus of the song (in Latin, with English translation) runs:\n<poem>\nDomum, domum, dulce domum!\nDomum, domum, dulce domum;\nDulce, dulce dulce domum!\nDulce domum resonemus.\n\nHome, home, joyous home! (or: Homeward, homeward, joyously homeward!)\nHome, home, joyous home!\nJoyous, joyous, joyous home!\nHurrah for joyous home!\n</poem>\n\nThe author of the text apparently wrongly treated \"domum\" as a neuter noun. However, \"domum\" could also be the accusative of \"domus\", meaning \"homeward\", making \"dulce\" an adverb, so the phrase \"dulce domum\" would mean \"sweetly homewards\" rather than the apparent \"sweet home\", though the usual adverb meaning \"sweetly\" is \"dulciter\".\n\nA \"Domum Dinner\" is held at the end of the summer term for leavers. It was formerly restricted to those former scholars of Winchester who were also scholars of New College, and distinguished guests. Until the reforms of the 19th century, there were three successive Election Dinners held during Election Week, culminating in a Domum Ball. Originally these festivities occurred around Whitsun, as suggested by references to early summer such as \"See the year, the meadow, smiling\" and \"Now the swallow seeks her dwelling\" in the song. When Election Week was moved to the end of the summer term (June or July) the Domum celebrations were moved with it, though the Whitsun references remained.\n\nA 1579 wall-painting of \"The Trusty Servant\" by the poet John Hoskins hangs outside the college kitchen. It depicts a mythical creature with the body of a man, the head of a pig, its snout closed with a padlock, the ears of a donkey, the feet of a stag, and holding working tools in his left hand. It is accompanied by allegorical verses on the virtues that pupils of the college were supposed to have. The college arms are shown in the background.\n\n\"The Trusty Servant\" is also the name of a magazine published for Old Wykehamists.\n\n\"Manners makyth man\"\n– William of Wykeham Motto of Winchester College and New College, Oxford\n\n\"Broad of Church and broad of mind,\" \n\"Broad before and broad behind,\"\n\"A keen ecclesiologist, \"\n\"A rather dirty Wykehamist.\"\n– John Betjeman \"The Wykehamist\"\n\n\"Leader in London's preservation lists\"\n\"And least Wykehamical of Wykehamists{:}\"\n\"Clan chief of Paddington's distinguished set,\"\n\"Pray go on living to a hundred yet!\"\n– John Betjeman \"For Patrick\" (about Patrick Balfour, 3rd Baron Kinross)\n\n\"You can always tell a Wykehamist, but you can never tell him much\"\n– Anon.\n\n\"These Wykehamists have the kind of mind that likes to relax by composing Alcaics on the moving parts of their toy trains.\"\n– Evelyn Waugh\n\n\"Would you doubt the word of a Wykehamist?\"\n– Edward Grey, 1st Viscount Grey of Fallodon\n\n\"O, Eternal God, the Life and the Resurrection of all them that believe in Thee, always to be praised as well for the Dead as for those that be Alive, we give Thee most hearty Thanks for our Founder, William of Wykeham; and all other our Benefactors, by whose Benefits we are here brought up to Godliness and the studies of good Learning; beseeching Thee that we, well using all these Thy Blessings to the Praise and Honour of Thy Holy Name, may at length be brought to the Immortal Glory of the Resurrection, through Jesus Christ our Lord. Amen.\" \n– \"Thanksgiving for the Founder\" as at present used on commemoration days\n\nIn 2005, Winchester College was one of fifty of the country's leading independent schools which were found guilty of running an unlawful price-fixing cartel by the Office of Fair Trading (\"OFT\"). All of the schools involved agreed to make penalty payments totalling three million pounds into a trust designed to benefit pupils who attended the schools during the period in which fee information was shared. The OFT offered both Winchester College and Eton a fifty percent reduction in their penalties in return for their full cooperation with the investigation. However, Jean Scott, the head of the Independent Schools Council, said that independent schools had always been exempt from anti-cartel rules applied to business, were following a long-established procedure in sharing the information with each other, and that they were unaware of the change to the law (on which they had not been consulted). She wrote to John Vickers, the OFT director-general, saying, \"They are not a group of businessmen meeting behind closed doors to fix the price of their products to the disadvantage of the consumer. They are schools that have quite openly continued to follow a long-established practice because they were unaware that the law had changed.\"\n\nIn 2017 Winchester College suspended a member of the staff for providing students with information about questions on an upcoming public exam. The headmaster of Winchester confirmed that the school had treated the matter \"very seriously\" and that no boy was responsible for the \"exam irregularity\". The information was widely distributed resulting in their papers being disallowed.\n\nAs with a number of other prominent independent schools in the South of England, a locomotive of the Southern Railway V Class was named after Winchester College. The second locomotive of the class, No. 901 \"Winchester\" was, like the other 39 V Class engines, constructed by the Southern at Eastleigh Works, not far away from the city of Winchester itself, and entered service in 1930. \"Winchester\" was one of those examples of the class selected by the railway's new chief mechanical engineer Oliver Bulleid for rebuilding with a Lemaître multiple-jet blastpipe and wide-diameter chimney from 1939 onwards. Upon passing into British Railways ownership due to the nationalisation of the railways in 1948, as an ex-SR machine \"Winchester\" was accordingly renumbered 30901. Like many members of the class, during 1962 No. 30901 was viewed as surplus to requirements, largely due to both increasing use of diesel traction and an expansion of the third-rail electrified network across former Southern Railway territory, and withdrawn from service.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "32693736", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32693736", "title": "Women's World Chess Championship 2012", "text": "Women's World Chess Championship 2012\n\nThe Women's World Chess Championship 2012 was a knockout tournament, to decide the women's world champion. The title was won by Anna Ushenina of Ukraine for the first time. Defending champion Hou Yifan went out in the second round.\n\nThe tournament was played as a 64-player knockout type in Khanty Mansiysk, Russia, from 10 November to 1 December 2012. Each pairing consisted of two games, and tie-breaks at faster time controls, if necessary.\n\nAfter only two wins by lower rated players in the first round, the second round saw the top three seeds all going out to players rated 150 Elo points below them, of those third seed Anna Muzychuk lost to the eventual world champion. The fourth seed went out in the quarter-final. The final consisted of four games at classical time control, followed by tie-break games; in it Anna Ushenina beat former women's world champion Antoaneta Stefanova in the first set of tie-breaks. The unexpected final of two lower seeded players raised questions, if a single match knock-out system is the best way to determine the world champion.\n\nUshenina lost her title in the Women's World Chess Championship 2013, after game seven of a ten-game match against Hou Yifan, winner of the FIDE Women's Grand Prix 2011–2012.\n\nPlayers qualified to the tournament through the previous world championship, the FIDE rating list, continental championships and two FIDE president nominees. Players were seeded by their Elo ratings (November 2012 list), except that defending champion Hou Yifan was the no. 1 seed.\n\nThe number one woman in the world, Judit Polgár, has never competed for the women's title and did not enter this time either. Other notable absentees were: women's number six Nana Dzagnidze, 2010 finalist Ruan Lufei, and ex-champion Maia Chiburdanidze (inactive).\n\nEach pairing consisted of two games played over two days, one with white and one with black. The time controls in the classical games were 90 minutes for the first 40 moves with a 30-minute addition on move 41. In case of a tie, tiebreaks were played the next day. The format for the tie breaks was as follows:\n\nThe championship had a prize-pool of 450,000 US-Dollar. Prizes were $3,750 for first round losers, $5,500 for the second round, 8,000 for the third. Losing quarter-finalists picked up $12,000, the semi-finalists $20,000. Stefanova then got $30,000 for finishing runner-up to Ushenina, who got $60,000 prize money. It was the same distribution as in the 2010 knock-out championship.\n\nThe tournament was streamed on the tournament website each day in full length. Live coverage was interrupted only for advertising breaks. The videostream was also playable on demand until the next day started. Coverage was provided in low and high definition with Grand Master commentary in three languages: English, Russian and for the first time Chinese. In the final days the broadcast was watched by several hundred thousand live viewers.\n\nThe final match was decided after four matches at classical time controls and two rapid tie-breaks. Anna Ushenina won the title, beating 2004 Women's World Chess champion Stefanova. Stefanova also was the reigning Women's World Rapid champion.\n\nFirst round pairings were published on 1 November 2012.\n"}
{"id": "7029967", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7029967", "title": "Zamboanga F.A.", "text": "Zamboanga F.A.\n\nThe Zamboanga Football Association is a Filipino football association based in Zamboanga City. It works under the Philippine Football Federation as provincial football association for the Zamboanga province. The Zamboanga FA sends a team to represent the region in the yearly PFF National Men's Club Championship.\n"}
