{"id": "156584", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=156584", "title": "Absentee landlord", "text": "Absentee landlord\n\nIn economics, an absentee landlord is a person who owns and rents out a profit-earning property, but does not live within the property's local economic region. The term \"absentee ownership\" was popularised by economist Thorstein Veblen's 1923 book of the same name, \"Absentee ownership\".\n\nWhen used in a local context, the term refers to a landlord of a house or other real estate, who leases the property to tenants, but fails to ensure that proper maintenance is done on it, or does only the minimum required by law (the term slumlord is also used to describe such a person). This in turn leads to what may appear to be abandoned buildings, causing significantly lowered property values and urban blight.\n\nTax policy seems, overall, to favour absentee ownership. However, some jurisdictions seek to extract money from absentee owners by taxing land. Absentee ownership has sometimes put the absentee owners at risk of loss.\n\nAbsentee landlords were a highly significant issue in the history of Ireland. During the course of 16th and 17th centuries, most of the land in Ireland was confiscated from Irish Catholic landowners during the Plantations of Ireland and granted to Scottish and English settlers who were members of the established churches (the Church of England and the Church of Ireland at the time); in Ulster, many of the landowners were Scottish Presbyterians. Seized land was given to Scottish and English nobles and soldiers, some of whom rented it out to the Irish, while they themselves remained residents of Scotland and England. By 1782 the Irish patriot Henry Grattan deplored that some £800,000 was transferred annually to such landlords. He attempted to place an extra tax on remittances to the British. But many absentees also reinvested part of their rents into roads and bridges, to improve local economies, that are still seen today. A notable beneficial absentee in the 19th century was Lord Palmerston, who went into debt to develop his part of Sligo; an investment that eventually paid off.\n\nBy the 1800s resentment grew as not only were the absentee landlords Protestant (while most tenants were Catholic and forbidden to inherit land), but their existence meant that the wealth of the land was always exported. This system became particularly detrimental to the native population during the Great Irish Famine when, despite Ireland being a net exporter of food, millions starved, died of disease, or emigrated. In the years following, the land issue with the Irish Land League's Land War became a significant issue in Ireland. The land issue was one of the historic factors which resulted in Ireland's troubled history until the 1920s, though it had largely been addressed legislatively by 1903 in the Irish Land Acts.\n\nAn absentee landlord crisis was a key factor in Prince Edward Island's decision to become a part of Canada when the idea of Confederation was proposed in 1867. In the mid-1760s, a survey team divided the Island into 67 lots. On July 1, 1767, these properties were allocated to supporters of King George III by means of a lottery. Ownership of the land remained in the hands of landlords in England, angering Island settlers who were unable to gain title to land on which they worked and lived. Significant rent charges (to absentee landlords) created further anger. The land had been given to the absentee landlords with a number of conditions attached regarding upkeep and settlement terms; many of these conditions were not satisfied. Islanders spent decades trying to convince the Crown to confiscate the lots, however the descendants of the original owners were generally well connected to the British government and refused to give up the land.\n\nIn 1853, the Island government passed the Land Purchase Act which empowered them to purchase lands from those owners who were willing to sell, and then resell the land to settlers for low prices. This scheme collapsed when the Island ran short of money to continue with the purchases. Many of these lands also were fertile, and were some of the key factors to sustaining Prince Edward Island's economy.\n\nIn 1864, the Island government saw union with Canada as a possible solution to the landlord crisis. This followed a rent strike and riots on the Island. At the Charlottetown Conference, delegates proposed a fund to purchase landlords' holdings if the Island joined Confederation. Several weeks later at the Quebec Conference this offer was withdrawn. The Island resolved not to enter Confederation as a result. The government refused offers from the other provinces and finally relented in 1873 after the local economy was pushed near to collapse. Under the terms of union, Canada agreed to provide the Island with an $800 000 fund to purchase the remaining absentee holdings. in 1875, the \"Land Purchase Act\" was enacted to force owners of the large estates to sell their holdings to the provincial government.\n\nThe Island's experience with absentee landlords affects its land ownership laws to this day. Non-residents are not permitted to purchase land in excess of two hectares without approval from the cabinet. In 2009 an American was fined $29,000 for contravening these laws.\n\nThe Ottoman Empire embarked on a systematic land reform program in the second half of the 19th Century. Two of the new laws were the 1858 land registration law and the 1873 emancipation act.\n\nPrior to 1858, land in Palestine, then a part of the Ottoman Empire since 1516, was cultivated or occupied mainly by peasants. Land ownership was regulated by people living on the land according to customs and traditions. Usually, land was communally owned by village residents, though land could be owned by individuals or families.\n\nIn 1858 the Ottoman Empire introduced \"The Ottoman Land Code of 1858\", requiring land owners to register ownership. The reasons behind the law were twofold. (1) to increase tax revenue, and (2) to exercise greater state control over the area. Peasants, however, saw no need to register claims, for several reasons:\n\n\nThe registration process itself was open to misregistration and manipulation. Land collectively owned by village residents ended up registered to one villager, and merchants and local Ottoman administrators took the opportunity to register large areas of land to their own name. The result was land that became the legal property of people who had never lived on the land, while the peasants, having lived there for generations, retained possession, but became tenants of absentee owners.\n\nThe 1856 Emancipation Reform Decree and 1869 citizenship law was interpreted as giving Jews the right to own land in Ottoman Syria under their own name. The changing of this law (the change occurring at the same time as the freeing of the Africans in the United States and in South America and the emancipation of the serfs in Russia (held in slavery by the Russian landowning class) was a part of the worldwide 19th century movement towards emancipation and civil rights for oppressed minorities. This 1873 secular land reform/civil rights law was popularly confused with a religious law and it was held as a \"humiliation to Islam that Jews should own a part of the Muslim Ummah\". The confusion between religious and secular law made the laws (ended in 1873) against Jewish ownership of land 'religious laws'. \n\nOver the course of the next decades land became increasingly concentrated on fewer hands; the peasants continued to work on the land, giving landlords a share of the harvest. This led to both an increased level of Palestinian nationalism as well as civil unrest. At the same time the area witnessed an increased flow of Jewish immigrants who did not restrict themselves to the cities where their concentration offered some protection from persecution. These new Jews came hoping to create a new future in what they regarded as the homeland of their ancestors. Organizations created to aid the Jewish migration to Palestine also bought land from absentee landowners. Jewish immigrants then settled on the land, sometimes replacing peasants already living there. A steady arrival of Jewish immigrants from 1882 led to several peasant insurgencies, recorded from as early as 1884-1886.\n\n"}
{"id": "30359843", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30359843", "title": "Abu Talib Yahya", "text": "Abu Talib Yahya\n\nAbu Talib Yahya (951 - 1033) was an imam of the Zaydiyyah sect in 1020-1033.\n\nLike his elder brother and predecessor al-Mu'ayyad Ahmad, Abu Talib Yahya was a prominent man of learning and a descendant of Imam Hasan bin Ali. He succeeded al-Mu'ayyad Ahmad in the imamate of the Zaidi territories in Gilan and Deylaman in Persia, formally as \"caliph\". At this time there were two major Zaidi territories, namely the area south of the Caspian Sea and the highlands of Yemen. For many years after the death of imam al-Mahdi al-Husayn in 1013, no local imam was appointed in the Yemeni territory. In Zaidi historiography, al-Mu'ayyad Ahmad and Abu Talib Yahya are sometimes listed as such, although they never visited Yemen.\n\n"}
{"id": "52952337", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52952337", "title": "Adrenocorticotropic hormone (medication)", "text": "Adrenocorticotropic hormone (medication)\n\nAdrenocorticotropic hormone is used as a medication and as diagnostic agent in the ACTH stimulation test.\n\nThe form that is purified from pig pituitary glands is known as corticotropin (INN, BAN) is a medication and naturally occurring polypeptide tropic hormone produced and secreted by the anterior pituitary gland.\n\nThe form that is made synthetically is tetracosactide (INN), also known as tetracosactrin (BAN) and cosyntropin (USAN), and the acetate ester, tetracosactide acetate (JAN), also known as tetracosactrin acetate (BAN). It consists of the first 24 (of a total of 39) amino acids of ACTH and retains full function of the parent peptide. Tetracosactide stimulates the release of corticosteroids such as cortisol from the adrenal glands, and is used for the ACTH stimulation test to assess adrenal gland function.\n\nBoth corticotropin and tetracosactide have been used for diagnostic purposes to determine adrenocortical insufficiency, particularly in Addison's disease, via the ACTH stimulation test. However, as of 2015 the US label for corticotropin does not include diagnostic use.\n\nBoth corticotropin and tetracosactide have been used for therapeutic purposes. In the US the tetracosactide label is limited to diagnosis but the UK label provides for therapeutic uses.\n\nIn the US corticotropin is used to treat epileptic spasms in infants, acute exacerbations of multiple sclerosis in adults; acute episodes of psoriatic arthritis and rheumatoid arthritis and ankylosing spondylitis; in acute exacerbations or as maintenance therapy for the collagen disorders like systemic lupus erythematosus and systemic dermatomyositis; for skin conditions like severe erythema multiforme and Stevens-Johnson syndrome; for serum sickness; for severe acute and chronic allergic and inflammatory processes involving the eye such as keratitis, iritis, iridocyclitis, diffuse posterior uveitis, choroiditis, optic neuritis, chorioretinitis, and anterior segment inflammation; sarcoidosis in the lungs; and to treat edema in certain nephrotic syndromes.\n\nIn the UK tetracosactide is used for short-term therapy in conditions for which glucocorticoids are usually used but for some reason should not be; some uses include use for people who don't respond to glucocorticoids or cannot tolerate them who have ulcerative colitis, Crohn's disease, juvenile rheumatoid arthritis, rheumatoid arthritis, or osteoarthrosis.\n\nIn the US the only contraindication for tetracosactide for diagnostic use is hypersensitivity to ADCH but in the UK, regulators placed contraindications for hypersensitivity to ADCH and additionally, for people with allergic disorders including asthma, acute psychosis, infectious diseases, peptic ulcer, refractory heart failure, Cushing's syndrome, treatment of primary adrenocortical insufficiency and adrenocongenital syndrome.\n\nThe same contraindications that were applied in the UK for diagnostic use of tetracosactide, apply for therapeutic use of both tetracosactide and corticotropin in the US and UK.\n\nIn addition, the US label for corticotropin for therapeutic uses includes contraindications for people who have recently had surgery, and people with scleroderma, osteoporosis, uncontrolled hypertension, or sensitivity to proteins of porcine origin; in addition the infection diseases systemic fungal infection, ocular herpes simplex, and infants who have congenital infections are specified. The label also notes that people taking corticotropin for immunosuppression should not be given live vaccines.\n\nPeople taking corticotropin or tetracosactide are more likely to get infections, and are at risk of hypothalamic-pituitary-axis (HPA) suppression and Cushing's syndrome.\n\nIn the normal situation, ACTH is released from the pituitary gland at the base of the brain. It acts on the adrenal glands to stimulate the production of steroid hormones (glucocorticoids). If the adrenal glands are healthy, a single injection of tetracosactide results in a rise in blood cortisol (hydrocortisone) concentrations in 30 minutes. If the adrenal glands appear not to be working then tetracosactide injection can be given to check whether the problem is due to diseased or damaged adrenals or due to lack of pituitary ACTH.\n\nTetracosactide stimulates the release of corticosteroids such as cortisol from the adrenal glands, and is used for the ACTH stimulation test to assess adrenal gland function.\n\nThe synthetic form consists of the first 24 (of a total of 39) amino acids of ACTH and retains full function of the parent peptide.\n\nIn the US, available forms of animal-derived corticotrophin have included:\n\nSynthetic forms were created as a replacement for the animal-derived products.\n\nIn the US, available forms of tetracosactide/cosyntropin, the synthetic form of corticotrophin, have been approved only for diagnostic uses, and have included:\n\nIn the UK, available forms of tetracosactide/cosyntropin, the synthetic form of corticotrophin, have been approved for both therapeutic and diagnostic uses, and have included:\n\nAs of 2007, it was widely reported that tetracosactide had been used as an illegal performance-enhancing drug by professional cyclists. It is known to be used as a doping agent to increase the secretion of glucocorticoids by adrenal glands.\n\nMallinckrodt acquired the rights to the animal-derived form via its acquisition of Questcor Pharmaceuticals in 2014. When Questcor acquired the drug in 2001 it sold for $40 a vial; within a year of the acquisition Questcor raised the price of the drug to $1,500 per vial and to $28,000 by 2013. In 2013, Questcor acquired the US rights to a competing product, Synacthen Depot, from Novartis. In 2014 Mallinckrodt raised the price of Acthar further to $34,000. The Federal Trade Commission and attorneys general from five states sued Mallinckrodt for anti-competitive behavior with regard to the acquisition of Synacthen Depot and the monopolistic pricing of Acthar, and in January 2017 the company settled, agreeing to pay $100 million and to license Synacthen Depot to a competitor. According to Kaiser Health News, Mallinckrodt responded by increasing its Congressional lobbying to $610,000, and its contributions to Congress members to $44,000, in the first quarter of 2017.\n\nIn Canada, Synacthen Depot's pricing increased by 2000% in 2015, causing some provincial single payer authorities to delist the drug from funded medications. The increase in the drug's price came after Mallinckrodt acquired Questcor and its drug portfolio, which included the worldwide rights to Synacthen Depot. Prior to the price increase, Mallinckrodt claims that the drug was manufactured at a loss. Some have claimed that the price increase is abusive. The drug had been priced at $33 but rose to $680 per vial. As an off-patent pharmaceutical, a similar drug, differing in formulation, available in Europe, made by a different manufacturer, sells for $8 per vial.\n\nActhar gel has been proposed as a therapy to treat refractory autoimmune diseases and refractory nephrotic syndrome due to a variety of glomerular diseases.\n\nBoth versions of the hormone are also used to perform the ACTH stimulation test to diagnose hypoadrenocorticism in dogs and sometimes cats.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2521068", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2521068", "title": "Alacalufe", "text": "Alacalufe\n\nThe Alacalufe, also known as the Kawésqar, Kaweskar, Alacaluf or Halakwulup (meaning \"mussel eater\" in Yaghan), are an indigenous people who live in Chilean Patagonia, specifically in the Brunswick Peninsula, and Wellington, Santa Inés, and Desolación islands of the western area of Tierra del Fuego. Their traditional language is known as Kawésqar; it is endangered as few native speakers survive.\n\nThe English and other Europeans initially adopted the name that the Yahgan, a competing indigenous tribe whom they met first in central and southern Tierra del Fuego, used for these people: Alacaluf or Halakwulup (meaning \"mussel eater\" in Yaghan). Their own name for themselves (autonym) is Kawésqar.\n\nLike the Yahgan in southern Chile and Argentina, the Kawésqar were a nomadic seafaring people, called canoe-people by some anthropologists. They made canoes that were eight to nine meters long and one meter wide, which would hold a family and its dog. They continued this fishing, nomadic practice until the twentieth century, when they were moved into settlements on land. Because of their maritime culture, the Kawésqar have never farmed the land.\n\nThe total population of the Kawésqar was estimated not to exceed 5,000. They ranged from the area between the Gulf of Penas (Golfo de Penas) to the north and the Brecknock Peninsula (Península de Brecknock) to the south. Like other indigenous peoples, they suffered high fatalities from endemic European infectious diseases, to which they had no immunity. Their environment was disrupted as Europeans began to settle in the area in the late 1880s.\n\nIn the 1930s many remaining Alacaluf were relocated to Wellington Island, in the town of Puerto Edén, to shield them from pressures from the majority culture. Later they moved further south, to Puerto Natales and Punta Arenas.\n\nIn the 21st century, few Kawésqar remain. The 2002 census found 2,622 people identifying as Kawésqar (defined as those who still practiced their native culture or spoke their native language). In 2006, only 15 full-blooded members remained, but numerous mestizo have Kawésqar ancestry. Lessons in the Kawésqar language are part of the local curriculum, but few native speakers remain to encourage daily use of their traditional language.\nAdwipliin, Aksánas, Alacaluf, Cálen (Cálenches, Calenes,), Caucahue, Enoo, Lecheyel, Taíjataf (Tayataf), Yequinahuere (Yequinahue, Yekinauer).\n\nBy 1884 Thomas Bridges, an Anglican missionary based in Ushuaia who had been serving and studying the indigenous peoples of Tierra del Fuego since the late 1860s, and his son Despard compiled a 1200-word vocabulary for the Kawésqar language. It was in the form of a manuscript. Through the late 19th and early 20th centuries, numerous missionaries and anthropologists moved among the indigenous peoples to aid, record and study them.\n\nIn 1881, European anthropologists took eleven Kawéskar people from Patagonia to be exhibited in the Bois de Boulogne in Paris, and in the Berlin Zoological Garden. Only four survived to return to Chile. Early in 2010, the remains of five of the seven who died in Europe were repatriated from the University of Zurich, Switzerland, where they had been held for studies. Upon the return of the remains, the president of Chile formally apologized for the state having allowed these indigenous people to be taken out of the country to be exhibited and treated like animals.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "56039888", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56039888", "title": "Arshad Ali (Pakistani politician)", "text": "Arshad Ali (Pakistani politician)\n\nArshad Ali () is a Pakistani politician hailing from Charsadda District, who is currently a member of the Khyber Pakhtunkhwa Assembly, belonging to the Qaumi Watan Party.\n\nAli was elected as the member of the Khyber Pakhtunkhwa Assembly on ticket of Qaumi Watan Party from PK-19 (Charsadda-III) in Pakistani general election, 2013.\n"}
{"id": "41383599", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41383599", "title": "Banyaruguru", "text": "Banyaruguru\n\nThe Banyaruguru are a closely related ethnic group (sometimes considered a subgroup) to the Batutsi, Banyankole, Bahima, Bahororo and Banyamulenge living in northern Rwanda and parts of Uganda.\n\n"}
{"id": "18960994", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18960994", "title": "Belizean society", "text": "Belizean society\n\nBelize's social structure is marked by enduring differences in the distribution of wealth, power, and prestige. Because of the small size of Belize's population and the intimate scale of social relations, the social distance between the rich and the poor, while significant, is nowhere as vast as in other Caribbean and Central American societies, such as Jamaica and El Salvador. Belize lacks the violent class and racial conflict that has figured so prominently in the social life of its Central American neighbors.\n\nPolitical and economic power remain vested in the hands of a relatively small local elite, most of whom are either white, light-skinned Creole, or Mestizo. The sizable middle group is composed of peoples of different ethnic backgrounds. This middle group does not constitute a unified social class, but rather a number of middle-class and working-class groups, loosely oriented around shared dispositions toward education, cultural respectability, and possibilities for upward social mobility. These beliefs and the social practices they engender, help distinguish the middle group from the grass roots majority of the Belizean people.\n\nThe elite is a small, socially distinct group whose base of social power lies not in landownership, but in its control of the institutions that mediate relations between Belize and the outside world. The principal economic interests of the elite include commercial and financial enterprises, retail trade, local manufacturing, the state apparatus, and, to a much lesser extent, export agriculture.\n\nThe Belizean elite consists of people of different status, prestige, and ethnicity. At the top of the power hierarchy are local whites and light-skinned descendants of the nineteenth-century Creole elite. The next group consists of Creole and Mestizo commercial and professional families whose ancestors first came to political and economic prominence during the late nineteenth and early twentieth centuries. Next in status are some of the Lebanese and Palestinian merchant families who immigrated to Belize in the early twentieth century.\n\nThe more recently arrived Chinese and Indian families comprise another elite group, distinguished from the remaining upper sector by length of residence in the country and by cultural differences. Groups within the elite socialize primarily among themselves.\n\nShared economic interests and business dealings bond the different segments of the elite. Other cultural factors also play a role. Intermarriage binds several of the elite families together, although usually without transgressing ethnic or religious boundaries. Religion also serves as a partial unifying force; a number of the oldest and most prominent Creole families share the Catholicism of the Mestizo commercial elite.\n\nBecause Belize City is the center of the nation's commercial life, the majority of elite families live or maintain a residence there, although some prominent families are based in the district towns. In Belize City, elite families live in the same ocean-front neighborhoods, belong to the same social clubs, and enjoy a similar lifestyle centered around the extravagant conspicuous consumption of imported goods.\n\nEducation also serves to unify the upper sector of society. Religious affiliation formerly largely determined which schools children attended. With the decline of the Anglican and Methodist school systems, most elite children, regardless of faith, attend two of Belize's premier Catholic institutions, which provide secondary and post-secondary education. Even after the expansion of secondary and postsecondary schooling in the districts, many of the elite district families continue to send their offspring to Belize City for higher education.\n\nDespite the establishment of a local institution of higher education in 1985, most elite youth attend universities abroad. Their choice of institutions reflects the changing dominant metropolitan cultural orientation of Belizean society. British universities attracted many of the college-bound members of the Belizean elite in the colonial period, but by 1990 the majority pursued their higher education in the United States or, to a lesser extent, in the West Indies.\n\nThe middle sector of Belizean society is considerably larger, more diverse, and less cohesive than the elite. People in this group lack the jobs, social status, or economic assets that are typical of the elite, and they are better off than the rest of society. Some families are \"poor relations\" of the elite class; others have acquired wealth and prestige over a few generations through higher education or economic success. This large group encompasses the traditional middle class as well as elements of the working classes: not only small businessmen, professionals, teachers, and mid-level civil servants, but also other government workers, smallholders, skilled manual workers, and commercial employees.\n\nThe middle sector is stratified according to wealth, level of education, and the status difference between manual and nonmanual occupations. A shared belief system that emphasizes cultural respectability, upward social mobility, and the importance of education unifies this group. Even more than middle-class families, some working-class families often make great sacrifices to ensure that their children received the best and most extensive education possible.\n\nThe middle sector of Belizean society is largely the product of the massive expansion of educational opportunities and the corresponding growth of the modern sector of the economy between 1950 and 1980. As an increasing number of Belizeans earned degrees from education institutions and as the local job market became saturated, families in this group became more concerned in the 1970s and 1980s with maintaining their social position than with upward social mobility. Faced with limited economic prospects in Belize, large numbers emigrated to the United States.\n\nThe middle sector is culturally diverse and includes members of all Belizean ethnic groups, although not in proportion to their numbers in the general population. Relatively few Mayan or Kekchí families, for example, belong to either the middle or upper working classes. Historical correlations between occupation and ethnic identity are long standing. Middle-sector Creoles are most likely to work in the professions, especially law and accounting, the civil service, and the skilled trades. Considerable numbers of Mestizos are employed by the government, as well as in small business and farming. Garifuna are particularly well established in the teaching profession.\n\nEthnic and religious sentiments divide the middle sector to a certain extent. The nationalist movement of the 1950s drew most of its leaders from the Catholic-educated Creole and Mestizo middle class. The Protestant-educated Creole middle class opposed the movement's anti-British, multicultural ethos and the projection of a Central American destiny for Belize. Still, political affiliation defies narrow ethnic or racial lines.\n\nBritish and North American ideas, particularly those of the United States, largely shape the beliefs and practices of the middle sector. These influences stem not only from the formal education system, but also from the popular culture of North America conveyed through cinema, magazines, radio, television, and migration. These cultural ideas are as much African-American as Anglo-American. Beginning with the Black Power movement of the late 1960s and early 1970s, middle- and working-class Creole youth increasingly adopted an Afrocentric cultural consciousness that distinguished them both from their elders and other ethnic groups in Belizean society.\n\nThis sector comprises the bulk of the Belizean population and is popularly known as the grass roots or roots class. It, too, is stratified by occupation and ethnicity. The lower sector consists of unskilled or semiskilled urban workers, subsistence farmers, agricultural laborers, and the unemployed. These people share, in addition to poverty and generally poor living conditions, severely limited access to land, higher education, or any other opportunity to change their marginal status. Possibilities for mobility are a main dividing line between the middle and lower sectors of Belizean society.\n\nThe ethnic composition of the lower sector varies by region. Most of the country's urban poor lived in predominantly Creole Belize City. With a population four times the size of the next largest urban area, Belize City was home to over half of all unemployed Belizeans in 1980. Many of the employed are engaged in ketch an kill jobs, temporary unskilled manual labor.\n\nEducational opportunities beyond the primary level are scarce for most poor urban families. Many children drop out of school before completing their primary education. Children who finish school often lacked the grades or financial resources to attend secondary school. Because the government generally awards scholarships according to academic performance rather than financial need, most poor Belizean families continued to lack access to education beyond the primary level.\n\nIn further contrast to the upper and middle sectors, many lower-sector households in Belize City are headed by single parents, usually women. Female workers generally receive lower incomes than their male counterparts, and women experience a much higher unemployment rate than men. In numerous cases, migration of both parents results in children being raised by siblings, older relatives, or friends of the family. Some of the more privileged members of Belizean society perceive that increases in juvenile delinquency, crime, and drug use among Belizean urban youth are directly attributable to breakdowns in family structure.\n\nAs with the population in general, a large percentage of the urban poor are young. Youth unemployment is high, and many unemployed youths in Belize City congregate on street corners or meet in storefronts known as \"bases.\" These young people are known as baseboys and basegirls. More privileged members of Belizean society tend to categorize baseboys and basegirls as criminals and delinquents, although the only thing many are guilty of is lacking opportunities for education and meaningful work.\n\nThe lack of educational and employment prospects for the rural and urban poor in the 1980s lead to dramatic increases in crime, especially in the illegal drug trade. By the middle of the decade, Belize had become the fourth largest exporter (after Mexico, Colombia, and Jamaica) of marijuana to the United States. By 1987, crack cocaine and gangs had established a foothold among the youthful population of Belize City. By 1991, both gang membership and gang warfare had escalated dramatically, moving off the street corners of the poorer neighborhoods into the schools and major public spaces of Belize City. Gangs, drugs, and violence were the dominant realities with which nearly all Belizean urban youth, especially the poor, had to deal.\n\nExtremely limited access to education and well-paying jobs characterize conditions for the poor in the district towns of Belize. But many people perceive the conditions in these towns as less severe than in Belize City. One exception was Orange Walk, which was known as Rambo Town, owing to the intensity of drug-related violence there in the mid-1980s.\n\nThe most limited opportunities for education and economic advancement are found in rural areas. Rural primary schools have much higher rates of absenteeism and attrition than urban schools, and all but three secondary schools are located in Belize City or the major district towns. Furthermore, the demands of agricultural work often prevent many children from attending school.\n\nThe rural poor are mostly Mayan and Mestizo subsistence farmers and agricultural laborers, although some Creole and Garifuna families are also included in this category. At the very bottom of both the rural and urban social hierarchies are illegally present Central Americans who are employed in the lowest paid, least desirable occupations, such as unskilled labor in the sugar, citrus, banana, and marijuana industries.\n\nBelize has adopted wholeheartedly, and with much popular support, the rhetoric and practices of the ideologies of development and consumerism, twin hallmarks of a modernizing society. Far-reaching changes have occurred in Belizean society since 1960. The growth of educational opportunities and government employment has facilitated the emergence of a sizable middle-class with expanding horizons of consumption. The meaning of education has also changed. Once revered as a scarce privilege guaranteeing social advancement, education is now perceived as a birthright and an essential tool for entering the job market.\n\nEducation, migration, and shifts in economic activity have enhanced the power and influence of previously marginal social groups and regions, particularly the Mestizos who inhabited the northern districts. Intermarriage and political mobilization have helped at times to cut across ethnic boundaries and create a nascent sense of national identity. Satellite television, tourism, and emigration have strengthened an already close connection with North America, while immigration has anchored Belize more firmly within Central America and its culture.\n\nBut not all of the changes have been positive. Many Belizeans of more than thirty years of age noted the breakdown of traditional notions of authority, respect, and propriety and the obsessive fascination of Belizean youth with North American material culture. Other blamed mass emigration for the dissolution of the Belizean family and a subsequent rise in juvenile delinquency and crime.\n\nEthnic tensions still regularly intruded into many areas of social interaction and indeed showed signs of intensifying. Possibilities for social mobility existed, but only for some individuals. The local school system produced continuously growing numbers of graduates for whom jobs did not exist, while it simultaneously excluded growing numbers of the poor from educational opportunity. Emigration to metropolitan countries often siphoned off people with the highest qualifications and the most ambitions, while immigration from neighboring republics promised to reshape the cultural orientation and, quite literally, the complexion of Belizean society.\n\n"}
{"id": "12496879", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12496879", "title": "Bhaiband", "text": "Bhaiband\n\nBhaiband, meaning “brotherhood”, are a Hindu jāti caste of India and Pakistan.\n\nThe Sindh region was ruled by various Muslim dynasties from 711 until the conquest by the British in 1843, when it became a part of Bombay Presidency. During that period, Hindus were a significant minority of the population although accurate figures continued to be unavailable until after 1947. Mark-Anthony Falzon notes that, \"Due to the shifting criteria of categorisation and the complex politics of census in general, the decennial colonial censuses of pre-independence Sindh must be read with caution.\" Of these are Hindus, with the exceptions being those considered to be Bhatias or Brahmins. Although considered to be Vaishya in the Hindu ritual ranking system known as [[Varna (Hinduism)|varna].\n\nAmong the sindhi jatis - a social grouping based on birth and kinship - are the Bhaibands, who by the time of the [[British Raj]] were held in a lesser regard than the [[Amil]] but who were the wealthiest as a result of their mobility and participation in trade. Falzon considers this trade-sourced wealth to be their \"distinguishing characteristic\" among the Hindus of Sindh. Although it was generally uncommon, there was intermarriage between Amils, Bhaibands and another jati, the [[Sahiti]]s. The ritual prohibitions of caste, such as restrictions on eating and worshipping together, permeate life in south India but did not play a great role in the life of Sindhis. Nonetheless, a hierarchy existed and, according to Falzon, \"still today, Bhaibands are seen by Amils as unpolished, having poor aesthetic tastes, and given to vulgar displays of wealth\".\n\n\nNotes\n\nCitations\n\n[[Category:Lohana]]\n[[Category:Social groups of Pakistan]]"}
{"id": "6034574", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6034574", "title": "Buckquoy spindle-whorl", "text": "Buckquoy spindle-whorl\n\nThe Buckquoy spindle-whorl is an Ogham-inscribed spindle-whorl dating from the Early Middle Ages, probably the 8th century, which was found in 1970 in Buckquoy, Birsay, Orkney, Scotland. Made of sandy limestone, it is about 36 mm in diameter and 10 mm thick. It is the only known spindle-whorl with an Ogham inscription.\n\nThe inscription was once used as proof that the Pictish language was not Indo-European, being variously read as:\nHowever, in 1995 historian Katherine Forsyth reading \nproposed that the inscription was a standard Old Irish ogham benedictory message, Benddact anim L. meaning \"a blessing on the soul of L.\". The stone from which the whorl was made, and on which the inscription was written, is likely to have originated in Orkney.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "43798016", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43798016", "title": "Demographics of Tehran", "text": "Demographics of Tehran\n\nTehran is one of the most ethnically diverse cities in Asia. The city of Tehran (not to be confused with the larger, Tehran Metropolitan) had a population of approximately 8,293,140 in 2011 and the Tehran Province has a 12,183,391 population.\n\n\nRate of population growth in the district of Tehran in different periods (left) — Changes of Tehran’s population compared to the total population of Iran 1996-2001 (right)\n\nAccording to a 2010 census conducted by the Sociology Department of Tehran University in many districts of Tehran across various socio-economic classes in proportion to population sizes of each district and socio-economic class, 63% of persian people in Tehran were born in Tehran, 98% know Persian language, 75% identify themselves as ethnic Persian, and 13% have some degree of proficiency in a European language\n\nAzerbaijanis in Tehran also known as Turks in Tehran or Azeris in Tehran are Iranians of Azerbaijani ethnicity. Azerbaijanis comprise 25% of Tehran's population and 20.3% – 25% of Tehran Province's population.\n\n"}
{"id": "48335024", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48335024", "title": "Egyptians in the Netherlands", "text": "Egyptians in the Netherlands\n\nEgyptians in the Netherlands are residents or citizens of the Netherlands who are of Egyptian ancestry. The community is relatively small, numbering 22,700 individuals.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "11887762", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11887762", "title": "Family Policy Studies Centre", "text": "Family Policy Studies Centre\n\nThe Family Policy Studies Centre was a charity which carried out independent policy studies research and policy analysis on family issues and trends. It was based at the University of Oxford. \n\nIts research included the understanding of contemporary family structures and patterns, the changes taking place, and the implications of such changes for policy and practice; the analysis of the impact of public policy decisions on families of different kinds. The centre acted as a centre of information, dissemination and debate, and aimed to serve as a bridge between policy-makers, academics and practitioners.\n\nIt produced a range of publications aimed at a variety of audiences, many of which are still available on its website. \n\nThe centre closed at the end of April 2001, after twenty-three years, following funding difficulties. \n\n"}
{"id": "31011913", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31011913", "title": "Feeding disorder", "text": "Feeding disorder\n\nA feeding disorder, in infancy or early childhood, is a child's refusal to eat certain food groups, textures, solids or liquids for a period of at least one month, which causes the child to not gain enough weight, grow naturally or cause any developmental delays. Feeding disorders resemble failure to thrive, except that at times in feeding disorder there is no medical or physiological condition that can explain the very small amount of food the children consume or their lack of growth. Some of the times, a previous medical condition that has been resolved is causing the issue.\n\nChildren attempting to swallow different food textures often vomit, gag, or choke while eating. At feeding times they may react negatively to attempts to feed them, and refuse to eat. Other symptoms include head turns, crying, difficulty in chewing or vomiting and spitting whilst eating. Many children may have feeding difficulties and may be picky eaters, but most of them still have a fairly healthy diet. Children with a feeding disorder however, will completely abandon some of the food groups, textures, or liquids that are necessary for human growth and development \n\nChildren with this disorder can develop much more slowly because of their lack of nutritional intake. In severe cases the child seems to feel socially isolated because of the lack of social activities involving foods.\n\nFeeding disorder has been divided into six further sub-types:\n\n\nA few of the medical and psychological conditions that have been known to be associated with this disorder include:\n\nA child that is suffering from malnutrition can have permanently stunted mental and physical development. Getting treatment early is essential and can prevent many of the complications. They can also develop further eating disorders later in life such as anorexia nervosa, or they could become a limited eater—though they could still be a healthy child they may become a picky eater.\n\nA barium swallow test is often performed, where the child is given a liquid or food with barium in it. This allows the consulting medical practitioners to trace the swallow-function on an X-ray or other investigative system such as a CAT scan. An endoscopic assignment test can also be performed, where an endoscope is used to view the oesophagus and throat on a screen. It can also allow viewing of how the patient will react during feeding.\n\nThere is no quick cure, and treatment will be based on what problems may be causing the feeding disorder. Depending on the condition, the following steps can be taken: increasing the number of foods that are accepted, increasing the amount of calories and the amount of fluids; checks for vitamin or mineral deficiencies; finding out what the illnesses or psychosocial problems are. To accomplish these goals patients may have to be hospitalized for extensive periods of time. Treatment involves professionals from multiple fields of study including, but not limited to; behavior analysts (Behavioral interventions), occupational and speech therapist who specialize in feeding disorders, dietitians, psychologists and physician. To obtain the best results, treatment should include a behavior modification plan under the guidance of multiple professionals. If the child has oral motor difficulties related to the feeding disorder a pediatric occupational or speech therapist who is trained in feeding disorders and oral motor function should help develop a plan. \n\nSome 25% to 40% of young children are reported to have feeding problems—mainly colic, vomiting, slow feeding, and refusal to eat. It has been reported that up to 80% of infants with developmental handicaps also demonstrate feeding problems while 1 to 2% of infants aged less than one year show severe food refusal and poor growth. Among infants born prematurely, 40% to 70% experience some form of feeding problem.\n\n"}
{"id": "41940", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41940", "title": "Gentrification", "text": "Gentrification\n\nGentrification is a process of renovating deteriorated urban neighborhoods by means of the influx of more affluent residents. This is a common and controversial topic in politics and in urban planning. Gentrification can improve the material quality of a neighborhood, while also potentially forcing relocation of current, established residents and businesses, causing them to move from a gentrified area, seeking lower cost housing and stores.\n\nGentrification often shifts a neighborhood’s racial/ethnic composition and average household income by developing new, more expensive housing, businesses and improved resources. Conversations about gentrification have evolved, as many in the social-scientific community have questioned the negative connotations associated with the word \"gentrification\". One example is that gentrification can lead to community displacement for lower-income families in gentrifying neighborhoods, as property values and rental costs rise; however, every neighborhood faces unique challenges, and reasons for displacement vary.\n\nThe gentrification process is typically the result of increasing attraction to an area by people with higher incomes spilling over from neighboring cities, towns, or neighborhoods. Further steps are increased investments in a community and the related infrastructure by real estate development businesses, local government, or community activists and resulting economic development, increased attraction of business, and lower crime rates. In addition to these potential benefits, gentrification can lead to population migration and displacement. However, some view the fear of displacement, which is dominating the debate about gentrification, as hindering discussion about genuine progressive approaches to distribute the benefits of urban redevelopment strategies.\n\nThe term gentrification has come to refer to a multi-faceted phenomenon that can be defined in different ways.\n\nHistorians say that gentrification took place in ancient Rome and in Roman Britain, where large villas were replacing small shops by the 3rd century, AD. The word \"gentrification\" derives from \"gentry\"—which comes from the Old French word \"genterise\", \"of gentle birth\" (14th century) and \"people of gentle birth\" (16th century). In England, \"Landed gentry\" denoted the social class, consisting of gentlemen. Although the term was already used in English in the 1950s - for instance by Sidney Perutz (Strange Reciprocity: Mainstreaming Women's Work in Tepotzlan in the 'Decade of the New Economy',1955, p37) and by William Xenophon Weed and Oscar Le Roy Warren (Warren's Weed on the New York Law of Real Property, Volume 6, 1950, p. 67), British sociologist Ruth Glass coined the term \"gentrification\" in 1964 to describe the influx of middle-class people displacing lower-class worker residents in urban neighborhoods; her example was London, and its working-class districts such as Islington:\n\nIn the US, the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention report \"Health Effects of Gentrification\" defines the real estate concept of \"gentrification\" as \"the transformation of neighborhoods from low value to high value. This change has the potential to cause displacement of long-time residents and businesses ... when long-time or original neighborhood residents move from a gentrified area because of higher rents, mortgages, and property taxes. Gentrification is a housing, economic, and health issue that affects a community's history and culture and reduces social capital. It often shifts a neighborhood's characteristics, e.g., racial-ethnic composition and household income, by adding new stores and resources in previously run-down neighborhoods.\"\n\nIn the Brookings Institution report \"Dealing with Neighborhood Change: A Primer on Gentrification and Policy Choices\" (2001), Maureen Kennedy and Paul Leonard say that \"the term 'gentrification' is both imprecise and quite politically charged\", suggesting its redefinition as \"the process by which higher income households displace lower income residents of a neighborhood, changing the essential character and flavour of that neighborhood\", so distinguishing it from the different socio-economic process of \"neighborhood (or urban) revitalization\", although the terms are sometimes used interchangeably.\n\nGerman geographers have a more distanced view on gentrification. Actual gentrification is seen as a mere symbolic issue happening in a low number of places and blocks, the symbolic value and visibility in public discourse being higher than actual migration trends. E.g. Gerhard Hard assumes that urban flight is still more important than inner city gentrification.\nVolkskunde scholar Barbara Lang introduced the term 'symbolic gentrification' with regard to the \"Mythos Kreuzberg\" in Berlin. Lang assumes that complaints about gentrification often come from those who have been responsible for the process in their youth. When former students and bohemians started raising families and earning money in better paid jobs, they become the yuppies they claim to dislike. Especially Berlin is a showcase of intense debates about symbols of gentrification, while the actual processes are much slower than in other cities. The city's Prenzlauer Berg district is, however, a poster child of the capital's gentrification, as this area in particular has experienced a rapid transformation over the last two decades. This leads to mixed feelings amidst the local population. The neologism Bionade-Biedermeier was coined about Prenzlauer Berg. It describes the post-gentrifed milieu of the former quartier of the alternative scene, where alleged leftist alternative accessoires went into the mainstream. The 2013 Schwabenhass controversy in Berlin put the blame of gentrification in Prenzlauer Berg on well-to-do southern German immigrants and allowed for inner German ethnic slurs, which in case of foreign immigration would have been totally unacceptable.\n\nAmerican economists describe gentrification as a natural cycle: the well-to-do prefer to live in the newest housing stock. Each decade of a city's growth, a new ring of new housing is built. When the housing at the center has reached the end of its useful life and is therefore cheap, the well-to-do gentrify the neighborhood. The push outward from the city center continues as the housing in each ring reaches the end of its economic life. They observe that \"gentrification\" has three interpretations: (a) \"great, the value of my house is going up, (b) coffee is more expensive, now that we have a Starbucks, and (c) my neighbors and I can no longer afford to live here (\"community displacement\")\n\nThere are several approaches that attempt to explain the roots and the reasons behind the spread of gentrification. Bruce London and J. John Palen (1984) compiled a list of five explanations: (1) demographic-ecological, (2) sociocultural, (3) political-economical, (4) community networks, and (5) social movements.\n\nThe first theory, demographic-ecological, attempts to explain gentrification through the analysis of demographics: population, social organization, environment, and technology. This theory frequently refers to the growing number of people between the ages of 25 and 35 in the 1970s, or the baby boom generation. Because the number of people that sought housing increased, the demand for housing increased also. The supply could not keep up with the demand; therefore cities were \"recycled\" to meet such demands (London and Palen, 1984). The baby boomers in pursuit of housing were very different, demographically, from their house-hunting predecessors. They married at an older age and had fewer children. Their children were born later. Women, both single and married, were entering the labor force at higher rates which led to an increase of dual wage-earner households. These households were typically composed of young, more affluent couples without children. Because these couples were child-free and were not concerned with the conditions of schools and playgrounds, they elected to live in the inner city in close proximity to their jobs. These more affluent people usually had white-collar, not blue-collar jobs. Since these white-collar workers wanted to live closer to work, a neighborhood with more white-collar jobs was more likely to be invaded; the relationship between administrative activity and invasion was positively correlated (London and Palen, 1984).\n\nThe second theory proposed by London and Palen is based on a sociocultural explanation of gentrification. This theory argues that values, sentiments, attitudes, ideas, beliefs, and choices should be used to explain and predict human behavior, not demographics, or \"structural units of analysis\" (i.e., characteristics of populations) (London and Palen, 1984). This analysis focuses on the changing attitudes, lifestyles, and values of the middle- and upper-middle-class of the 1970s. They were becoming more pro-urban than before, opting not to live in rural or even suburban areas anymore. These new pro-urban values were becoming more salient, and more and more people began moving into the cities. London and Palen refer to the first people to invade the cities as \"urban pioneers\". These urban pioneers demonstrated that the inner-city was an \"appropriate\" and \"viable\" place to live, resulting in what is called \"inner city chic\" (London and Palen, 1984). The opposing side of this argument is that dominant, or recurring, American values determine where people decide to live, not the changing values previously cited. This means that people choose to live in a gentrified area to restore it, not to alter it, because restoration is a \"new way to realize old values\" (London and Palen, 1984).\n\nThe third theoretical explanation of gentrification is political-economic and is divided into two approaches: traditional and Marxist. The traditional approach argues that economic and political factors have led to the invasion of the inner-city, hence the name political-economic. The changing political and legal climate of the 1950s and 1960s (new civil rights legislation, anti-discrimination laws in housing and employment, and desegregation) had an \"unanticipated\" role in the gentrification of neighborhoods. A societal decrease in acceptance of prejudice led to more blacks moving to the suburbs and whites no longer rejected the idea of moving to the city. The decreasing availability of suburban land and inflation in suburban housing costs also inspired the invasion of the cities. The Marxist approach denies the notion that the political and economic influences on gentrification are invisible, but are intentional. This theory claims that \"powerful interest groups follow a policy of neglect of the inner city until such time as they become aware that policy changes could yield tremendous profits\" (London and Palen, 1984). Once the inner city becomes a source of revenue, the powerless residents are displaced with little or no regard from the powerful.\n\nThe community-network approach is the fourth proposed by London and Palen. This views the community as an \"interactive social group\". Two perspectives are noted: community lost and community saved. The community lost perspective argues that the role of the neighborhood is becoming more limited due to technological advances in transportation and communication. This means that the small-scale, local community is being replaced with more large-scale, political and social organizations (Greer, 1962). The opposing side, the community saved side, argues that community activity increases when neighborhoods are gentrified because these neighborhoods are being revitalized.\n\nThe fifth and final approach is social movements. This theoretical approach is focused on the analysis of ideologically based movements, usually in terms of leader-follower relationships. Those who support gentrification are encouraged by leaders (successful urban pioneers, political-economic elites, land developers, lending institutions, and even the Federal government in some instances) to revive the inner-city. Those who are in opposition are the people who currently reside in the deteriorated areas. They develop countermovements in order to gain the power necessary to defend themselves against the movements of the elite. An excellent example was the turned around gang in Chicago who fought for years against the Richard J. Daley machine: the Young Lords led by Jose Cha Cha Jimenez. They occupied neighborhood institutions and led massive demonstration to make people aware. These countermovements can be unsuccessful, though. The people who support reviving neighborhoods are also members, and their voices are the ones that the gentrifiers tend to hear (London and Palen, 1984).\n\nTwo discrete, sociological theories explain and justify gentrification as an economic process (production-side theory) and as a social process (consumption-side theory) that occurs when the suburban gentry tire of the automobile-dependent urban sprawl style of life; thus, professionals, empty nest aged parents, and recent university graduates perceive the attractiveness of the city center—earlier abandoned during white flight—especially if the poor community possesses a transport hub and its architecture sustains the pedestrian traffic that allows the proper human relations impeded by (sub)urban sprawl.\n\nFurthermore, proximity to urban amenities such as transit stops has been shown to drive up home prices over time. A survey of Northwest Chicago conducted between 1975 and 1991 showed that homes located directly in the vicinity Red Line and Brown Line stops of the \"L\" rail transit system saw a huge price jump during these years, compared to only modest increases for area outside the zone. Between 1985 and 1991 in particular, homes near transit stops nearly doubled in value.\n\nProfessor Smith and Marxist sociologists explain gentrification as a structural economic process; Humanistic Geographer, David Ley explains gentrification as a natural outgrowth of increased professional employment in the central business district (CBD), and the creative sub-class's predilection for city living. \"Liberal Ideology and the Post-Industrial City\" (1980) describes and deconstructs the TEAM committee's effort to rendering Vancouver, BC, Canada, a \"livable city\". The investigators Rose, Beauregard, Mullins, Moore \"et al.\", who base themselves upon Ley's ideas, posit that \"gentrifiers and their social and cultural characteristics [are] of crucial importance for an understanding of gentrification\"—theoretical work Chris Hamnett criticized as insufficiently comprehensive, for not incorporating the \"supply of dwellings and the role of developers [and] speculators in the process\".\n\nThe \"production-side\" theory of urban gentrification derives from the work of human geographer Neil Smith, explaining gentrification as an economic process consequent to the fluctuating relationships among capital investments and the production of urban space. He asserts that restructuring of urban space is the visual component of a larger social, economic, and spatial restructuring of the contemporary capitalist economy.\nSmith summarizes the causes of gentrification into five main processes: suburbanization and the emergence of rent gap, deindustrialization, spatial centralization and decentralization of capital, falling profit and cyclical movement of capital, and changes in demographics and consumption patterns.\n\nSuburban development derives from outward expansion of cities, often driven by sought profit and the availability of cheap land. This change in consumption causes a fall in inner city land prices, often resulting in poor upkeep and a neglect of repair for these properties by owners and landlords. The depressed land is then devalued, causing rent to be significantly cheaper than the potential rent that could be derived from the \"best use\" of the land while taking advantage of its central location. From this derives the \"Rent-gap Theory\" describing the disparity between \"the actual capitalized ground rent (land price) of a plot of land given its present use, and the potential ground rent that might be gleaned under a 'higher and better' use.\"\n\nThe rent gap is fundamental to explaining gentrification as an economic process. When the gap is sufficiently wide, real estate developers, landlords, and other people with vested interests in the development of land perceive the potential profit to be derived from re-investing in inner-city properties and redeveloping them for new tenants. Thus, the development of a rent gap creates the opportunity for urban restructuring and gentrification.\n\nThe de-industrialization of cities in developed nations reduces the number of blue-collar jobs available to the urban working class as well as middle-wage jobs with the opportunity for advancement, creating lost investment capital needed to physically maintain the houses and buildings of the city. Abandoned industrial areas create availability for land for the rent gap process.\n\nDe-industrialization is often integral to the growth of a divided white collar employment, providing professional and management jobs that follow the spatial decentralization of the expanding world economy. However, somewhat counter-intuitively, globalization also is accompanied by spatial centralization of urban centers, mainly from the growth of the inner city as a base for headquarter and executive decision-making centers. This concentration can be attributed to the need for rapid decisions and information flow, which makes it favorable to have executive centers in close proximity to each other. Thus, the expanding effect of suburbanization as well as agglomeration to city centers can coexist. These simultaneous processes can translate to gentrification activities when professionals have a high demand to live near their executive workplaces in order to reduce decision-making time.\n\nThis section of Smith's theory attempts to describe the timing of the process of gentrification. At the end of a period of expansion for the economy, such as a boom in postwar suburbs, accumulation of capital leads to a falling rate of profit. It is then favorable to seek investment outside the industrial sphere to hold off onset of an economic crisis. By this time, the period of expansion has inevitably led to the creation of rent gap, providing opportunity for capital reinvestment in this surrounding environment.\n\nSmith emphasizes that demographic and life-style changes are more of an exhibition of the \"form\" of gentrification, rather than real factors behind gentrification. The aging baby-boomer population, greater participation of women in the workforce, and the changes in marriage and childrearing norms explain the appearance that gentrification takes, or as Smith says, \"why we have proliferating quiche bars rather than Howard Johnson's\".\n\nIn contrast to the production-side argument, the \"consumption-side\" theory of urban gentrification posits that the \"socio-cultural characteristics and motives\" of the gentrifiers are most important to understanding the gentrification of the \"post-industrial city\". The changes in the structure of advanced capitalist cities with the shift from industrial to service-based economy were coupled with the expanding of a new middle class—one with a larger purchasing power than ever before. As such, human geographer David Ley posits a rehabilitated post-industrial city influenced by this \"new middle class\". The consumption theory contends that it is the demographics and consumption patterns of this \"new middle class\" that is responsible for gentrification.\n\nThe economic and cultural changes of the world in the 1960s have been attributed to these consumption changes. The antiauthoritarian protest movements of the young in the U.S., especially on college campuses, brought a new disdain for the \"standardization of look-alike suburbs,\" as well as fueled a movement toward empowering freedom and establishing authenticity. In the postindustrial economy, the expansion of middle class jobs in inner cities came at the same time as many of the ideals of this movement. The process of gentrification stemmed as the new middle class, often with politically progressive ideals, was employed in the city and recognized not only the convenient commute of a city residence, but also the appeal towards the urban lifestyle as a means of opposing the \"deception of the suburbanite\".\n\nThis new middle class was characterized by professionals with life pursuits expanded from traditional economistic focus. Gentrification provided a means for the 'stylization of life' and an expression of realized profit and social rank. Similarly, Michael Jager contended that the consumption pattern of the new middle class explains gentrification because of the new appeal of embracing the historical past as well as urban lifestyle and culture. The need of the middle class to express individualism from both the upper and lower classes was expressed through consumption, and specifically through the consumption of a house as an aesthetic object. Consumers' desire for \"local\" products and services has been used to explain the effects of businesses such as craft breweries on neighborhood gentrification.\n\n\"This permanent tension on two fronts is evident in the architecture of gentrification: in the external restorations of the Victoriana, the middle classes express their candidature for the dominant classes; in its internal renovation work this class signifies its distance from the lower orders.\" p. 154\n\nGentrification, according to consumption theory, fulfills the desire for a space with social meaning for the middle class as well as the belief that it can only be found in older places because of a dissatisfaction with contemporary urbanism.\n\nGentrification is integral to the new economy of centralized, high-level services work—the \"new urban economic core of banking and service activities that come to replace the older, typically manufacturing-oriented, core\" that displaces middle-class retail businesses so they might be \"replaced by upmarket boutiques and restaurants catering to new high-income urban élites\". In the context of globalization, the city's importance is determined by its ability to function as a discrete socio-economic entity, given the lesser import of national borders, resulting in de-industrialized global cities and economic restructuring.\n\nTo wit, the American urban theorist John Friedman's seven-part theory posits a bifurcated service industry in world cities, composed of \"a high percentage of professionals specialized in control functions and ... a vast army of low-skilled workers engaged in ... personal services ... [that] cater to the privileged classes, for whose sake the world city primarily exists\". The final three hypotheses detail (i) the increased immigration of low-skill laborers needed to support the privileged classes, (ii) the class and caste conflict consequent to the city's inability to support the poor people who are the service class, and (iii) the world city as a function of social class struggle—matters expanded by Saskia Sassen \"et al.\" The world city's inherent socio-economic inequality illustrates the causes of gentrification, reported in \"Where Did They Go? The Decline of Middle-Income Neighborhoods in Metropolitan America\" (2006) demonstrating geographical segregation by income in US cities, wherein middle-income (middle class) neighborhoods decline, while poor neighborhoods and rich neighborhoods remain stable.\n\nAs rent-gap theory would predict, one of the most visible changes the gentrification process brings is to the infrastructure of a neighborhood. Typically, areas to be gentrified are deteriorated and old, though structurally sound, and often have some obscure amenity such as a historical significance that attracts the potential gentrifiers. Gentry purchase and restore these houses, mostly for single-family homes. Another phenomenon is \"loft conversion,\" which rehabilitates mixed-use areas, often abandoned industrial buildings or run-down apartment buildings to housing for the incoming gentrifiers. While this upgrade of housing value is the superficial keynote to the gentrification process, there is a greater number of less-visible shifts the gentry bring with them into their new neighborhoods in the community.\n\nGentrification has been substantially advocated by local governments, often in the form of 'urban restructuring' policies. Goals of these policies include dispersing low-income residents out of the inner city and into the suburbs as well as redeveloping the city to foster mobility between both the central city and suburbia as residential options. The strain on public resources that often accompanies concentrated poverty is relaxed by the gentrification process, a benefit of changed social makeup that is favorable for the local state. Rehabilitation movements have been largely successful at restoring the plentiful supply of old and deteriorated housing that is readily available in inner cities. This rehabilitation can be seen as a superior alternative to expansion, for the location of the central city offers an intact infrastructure that should be taken advantage of: streets, public transportation, and other urban facilities. Furthermore, the changed perception of the central city that is encouraged by gentrification can be healthy for resource-deprived communities who have previously been largely ignored.\n\nA change of residence that is forced upon people who lack resources to cope has social costs. Measures protecting these marginal groups from gentrification may reduce those.\n\nThere is also the argument that gentrification reduces the social capital of the area it affects. Communities have strong ties to the history and culture of their neighborhood, and causing its dispersal can have detrimental costs.\nThe Center for Disease Control and Prevention has a webpage discussing adverse effects gentrification has on health, and provides a list of policies that would inhibit gentrification in order to prevent these impacts.\n\nDisplacement of lower income families as a result of gentrification has been a major issue for decades. However, research has shown that oftentimes the opposite is true. Low-income families in gentrifying neighborhoods are less likely to be displaced than in non-gentrifying neighborhoods. A common theory has been that as affluent people move into a poorer neighborhood, housing prices increase as a result, causing poorer people to move out of the neighborhood. Although there is evidence showing gentrification may modestly raise real estate prices, numerous studies show that in many circumstances, other benefits from gentrification such as lower crime and an improved local economy outweigh the increased housing costs—displacement tends to decrease in gentrifying areas such as these as a result.\n\nA study from 2016 found that nearly 10,000 Hispanic families have had to move out of Pilsen in Chicago, Illinois, originally an Eastern European neighborhood which had become predominantly Mexican by the 1970s. This has come as a result of more wealthier people moving into the area. Chicago itself has been going through a process of gentrification and displacement quite rapidly in the past decade. When young often wealthier white people move into areas historically of color it can cause the ethnic groups common to the area to leave because of rent hikes.\n\nMany of the social effects of gentrification have been based on extensive theories about how socioeconomic status of an individual's neighborhood will shape one's behavior and future. These studies have prompted \"social mix policies\" to be widely adopted by governments to promote the process and its positive effects, such as lessening the strain on public resources that are associated with de-concentrating poverty. However, more specific research has shown that gentrification does not necessarily correlate with \"social mixing,\" and that the effects of the new composition of a gentrified neighborhood can both weaken as well as strengthen community cohesion.\n\nHousing confers social status, and the changing norms that accompany gentrification translate to a changing social hierarchy. The process of gentrification mixes people of different socioeconomic strata, thereby congregating a variety of expectations and social norms. The change gentrification brings in class distinction also has been shown to contribute to residential polarization by income, education, household composition, and race. It conveys a social rise that brings new standards in consumption, particularly in the form of excess and superfluity, to the area that were not held by the pre-existing residents. These differing norms can lead to conflict, which potentially serves to divide changing communities. Often this comes at a larger social cost to the original residents of the gentrified area whose displacement is met with little concern from the gentry or the government. Clashes that result in increased police surveillance, for example, would more adversely affect young minorities who are also more likely to be the original residents of the area.\n\nThere is also evidence to support that gentrification can strengthen and stabilize when there is a consensus about a community's objectives. Gentrifiers with an organized presence in deteriorated neighborhoods can demand and receive better resources. A characteristic example is a combined community effort to win historic district designation for the neighborhood, a phenomenon that is often linked to gentrification activity. Gentry can exert a peer influence on neighbors to take action against crime, which can lead to even more price increases in changing neighborhoods when crime rates drop and optimism for the area's future climbs.\n\nThe economic changes that occur as a community goes through gentrification are often favorable for local governments. Affluent gentrifiers expand the local tax base as well as support local shops and businesses, a large part of why the process is frequently alluded to in urban policies. The decrease in vacancy rates and increase in property value that accompany the process can work to stabilize a previously struggling community, restoring interest in inner-city life as a residential option alongside the suburbs. These changes can create positive feedback as well, encouraging other forms of development of the area that promote general economic growth.\n\nHome ownership is a significant variable when it comes to economic impacts of gentrification. People who own their homes are much more able to gain financial benefits of gentrification than those who rent their houses and can be displaced without much compensation.\n\nEconomic pressure and market price changes relate to the speed of gentrification. English-speaking countries have a higher amount of property owners and a higher mobility. German speaking countries provide a higher share of rented property and have a much stronger role of municipalities, cooperatives, guilds and unions offering low-price-housing. The effect is a lower speed of gentrification and a broader social mix. Gerhard Hard sees gentrification as a typical 1970s term with more visibility in public discourse than actual migration.\n\nWhether gentrification has occurred in a census tract in an urban area in the United States during a particular 10-year period between censuses can be determined by a method used in a study by \"Governing\": If the census tract in a central city had 500 or more residents and at the time of the baseline census had median household income and median home value in the bottom 40th percentile and at the time of the next 10-year census the tract's educational attainment (percentage of residents over age 25 with a bachelor's degree) was in the top 33rd percentile; the median home value, adjusted for inflation, had increased; and the percentage of increase in home values in the tract was in the top 33rd percentile when compared to the increase in other census tracts in the urban area then it was considered to have been gentrified. The method measures the rate of gentrification, not the degree of gentrification; thus, San Francisco, which has a history of gentrification dating to the 1970s, show a decreasing rate between 1990 and 2010.\n\nJust as critical to the gentrification process as creating a favorable environment is the availability of the 'gentry,' or those who will be first-stage gentrifiers. The typical gentrifiers are affluent and have professional-level, service industry jobs, many of which involve self-employment. Therefore, they are willing and able to take the investment risk in the housing market. Often they are single people or young couples without children who lack demand for good schools. Gentrifiers are likely searching for inexpensive housing close to the workplace and often already reside in the inner city, sometimes for educational reasons, and do not want to make the move to suburbia. For this demographic, gentrification is not so much the result of a return to the inner city but is more of a positive action to remain there.\n\nThe stereotypical gentrifiers also have shared consumer preferences and favor a largely consumerist culture. This fuels the rapid expansion of trendy restaurant, shopping, and entertainment spheres that often accompany the gentrification process. Holcomb and Beauregard described these groups as those who are \"attracted by low prices and toleration of an unconventional lifestyle\".\n\nAn interesting find from research on those who participate and initiate the gentrification process, the \"marginal gentrifiers\" as referred to by Tim Butler, is that they become marginalized by the expansion of the process. Research has also shown subgroups of gentrifiers that fall outside of these stereotypes. Two important ones are white women, typically single mothers, as well as white gay people who are typically men.\n\nWomen increasingly obtaining higher education as well as higher paying jobs has increased their participation in the labor force, translating to an expansion of women who have greater opportunities to invest. Smith suggests this group \"represents a reservoir of potential gentrifiers\". The increasing number of highly educated women play into this theory, given that residence in the inner city can give women access to the well-paying jobs and networking, something that is becoming increasingly common.\n\nThere are also theories that suggest the inner-city lifestyle is important for women with children where the father does not care equally for the child, because of the proximity to professional childcare. This attracts single parents, specifically single mothers, to the inner-city as opposed to suburban areas where resources are more geographically spread out. This is often deemed as \"marginal gentrification,\" for the city can offer an easier solution to combining paid and unpaid labor. Inner city concentration increases the efficiency of commodities parents need by minimizing time constraints among multiple jobs, childcare, and markets.\n\nPhillip Clay's two-stage model of gentrification places artists as prototypical stage one or \"marginal\" gentrifiers. The National Endowment for the Arts did a study that linked the proportion of employed artists to the rate of inner city gentrification across a number of U.S. cities. Artists will typically accept the risks of rehabilitating deteriorated property, as well as have the time, skill, and ability to carry out these extensive renovations. David Ley states that the artist's critique of everyday life and search for meaning and renewal are what make them early recruits for gentrification.\n\nThe identity that residence in the inner city provides is important for the gentrifier, and this is particularly so in the artists' case. Their cultural emancipation from the bourgeois makes the central city an appealing alternative that distances them from the conformity and mundaneness attributed to suburban life. They are quintessential city people, and the city is often a functional choice as well, for city life has advantages that include connections to customers and a closer proximity to a downtown art scene, all of which are more likely to be limited in a suburban setting. Ley's research cites a quote from a Vancouver printmaker talking about the importance of inner city life to an artist, that it has, \"energy, intensity, hard to specify but hard to do without\" (1996).\n\nIronically, these attributes that make artists characteristic marginal gentrifiers form the same foundations for their isolation as the gentrification process matures. The later stages of the process generate an influx of more affluent, \"yuppie\" residents. As the bohemian character of the community grows, it appeals \"not only to committed participants, but also to sporadic consumers,\" and the rising property values that accompany this migration often lead to the eventual pushing out of the artists that began the movement in the first place. Sharon Zukin's study of SoHo in Manhattan, NYC was one of the most famous cases of this phenomenon. Throughout the 1960s and 1970s, Manhattan lofts in SoHo were converted \"en masse\" into housing for artists and hippies, and then their sub-culture's followers.\n\n Manuel Castells has researched the role of gay communities, especially in San Francisco, as early gentrifiers. The film \"Quinceañera\" depicts a similar situation in Los Angeles. \"Flag Wars\" (Linda Goode Bryant) shows tensions as of 2003 between white LGBT-newcomers and a black middle-class neighborhood in Columbus, Ohio.\n\nTo counter the gentrification of their mixed-populace communities, there are cases where residents formally organized themselves to develop the necessary socio-political strategies required to retain local affordable housing. The gentrification of a mixed-income community raises housing affordability to the fore of the community's politics. There are cities, municipalities, and counties which have countered gentrification with inclusionary zoning (inclusionary housing) ordinances requiring the apportionment of some new housing for the community's original low- and moderate-income residents. Inclusionary zoning is a new social concept in English speaking countries; there are few reports qualifying its effective or ineffective limitation of gentrification in the English literature. The basis of inclusionary zoning is partial replacement as opposed to displacement of the embedded communities. In Los Angeles, California, inclusionary zoning apparently accelerated gentrification, as older, unprofitable buildings were razed and replaced with mostly high-rent housing, and a small percentage of affordable housing; the net result was less affordable housing. German (speaking) municipalities have a strong legal role in zoning and on the real estate market in general and a long tradition of integrating social aspects in planning schemes and building regulations. The German approach uses en (milieu conservation municipal law), e.g. in Munichs Lehel district in use since the 1960s. The concepts of socially aware renovation and zoning of Bologna's old city in 1974 was used as role model in the Charta of Bologna, and recognized by the Council of Europe.\n\nWhen wealthy people move into low-income working-class neighborhoods, the resulting class conflict sometimes involves vandalism and arson targeting the property of the gentrifiers. During the dot-com boom of the late 1990s, the gentrification of San Francisco's predominantly working class Mission District led some long-term neighborhood residents to create what they called the \"Mission Yuppie Eradication Project\". This group allegedly destroyed property and called for property destruction as part of a strategy to oppose gentrification. Their activities drew hostile responses from the San Francisco Police Department, real estate interests, and \"work-within-the-system\" housing activists.\n\nMeibion Glyndŵr (), also known as the Valley Commandos, was a Welsh nationalist movement violently opposed to the loss of Welsh culture and language. They were formed in response to the housing crisis precipitated by large numbers of second homes being bought by the English which had increased house prices beyond the means of many locals. The group were responsible for setting fire to English-owned holiday homes in Wales from 1979 to the mid-1990s. In the first wave of attacks, eight holiday homes were destroyed in a month, and in 1980, Welsh Police carried out a series of raids in Operation Tân. Within the next ten years, some 220 properties were damaged by the campaign. Since the mid-1990s the group has been inactive and Welsh nationalist violence has ceased. In 1989 there was a movement that protested an influx of Swabians to Berlin who were deemed as gentrification drivers. Berlin saw the Schwabenhass and 2013 Spätzlerstreit controversies, which identified gentrification with newcomers from the German south.\n\nZoning ordinances and other urban planning tools can be used to recognize and support local business and industries. This can include requiring developers to continue with a current commercial tenant or offering development incentives for keeping existing businesses, as well as creating and maintaining industrial zones. Designing zoning to allow new housing near to a commercial corridor but not on top of it increases foot traffic to local businesses without redeveloping them. Businesses can become more stable by securing long-term commercial leases.\n\nAlthough developers may recognize value in responding to living patterns, extensive zoning policies often prevent affordable homes from being constructed within urban development. Due to urban density restrictions, rezoning for residential development within urban living areas is difficult, which forces the builder and the market into urban sprawl and propagates the energy inefficiencies that come with distance from urban centers. In a recent example of restrictive urban zoning requirements, Arcadia Development Co. was prevented from rezoning a parcel for residential development in an urban setting within the city of Morgan Hill, California. With limitations established in the interest of public welfare, a density restriction was applied solely to Arcadia Development Co.'s parcel of development, excluding any planned residential expansion.\n\nBecause land speculation tends to raise property values, removing real estate (houses, buildings, land) from the open market stabilizes property values, and thereby prevents the economic eviction of the community's poorer residents. The most common, formal legal mechanism for such stability in English speaking countries is the community land trust; moreover, many inclusionary zoning ordinances formally place the \"inclusionary\" housing units in a land trust. German municipalities and other cooperative actors have and maintain strong roles on the real estate markets in their realm.\n\nIn jurisdictions where local or national government has these powers, there may be rent control regulations. Rent control restricts the rent that can be charged, so that incumbent tenants are not forced out by rising rents. If applicable to private landlords, it is a disincentive to speculating with property values, reduces the incidence of dwellings left empty, and limits availability of housing for new residents. If the law does not restrict the rent charged for dwellings that come onto the rental market (formerly owner-occupied or new build), rents in an area can still increase. The cities of southwestern Santa Monica and eastern West Hollywood in California, United States gentrified despite—or perhaps, because of—rent control.\n\nOccasionally, a housing black market develops, wherein landlords withdraw houses and apartments from the market, making them available only upon payment of additional key money, fees, or bribes—thus undermining the rent control law. Many such laws allow \"vacancy decontrol\", releasing a dwelling from rent control upon the tenant's leaving—resulting in steady losses of rent-controlled housing, ultimately rendering rent control laws ineffective in communities with a high rate of resident turnover. In other cases social housing owned by local authorities may be sold to tenants and then sold on. Vacancy decontrol encourages landlords to find ways of shortening their residents' tenure, most aggressively through landlord harassment. To strengthen the rent control laws of New York City, housing advocates active in rent control in New York are attempting to repeal the vacancy decontrol clauses of rent control laws. The state of Massachusetts abolished rent control in 1994; afterwards, rents rose, accelerating the pace of Boston's gentrification; however, the laws protected few apartments, and confounding factors, such as a strong economy, had already been raising housing and rental prices.\n\nGentrification is not a new phenomenon in Britain; in ancient Rome the shop-free forum was developed during the Roman Republican period, and in 2nd- and 3rd-century cities in Roman Britain there is evidence of small shops being replaced by large villas.\n\nKing's College London academic Loretta Lees reported that much of Inner London was undergoing \"super-gentrification\", where \"a new group of super-wealthy professionals, working in the City of London [i.e. the financial industry], is slowly imposing its mark on this Inner London housing market, in a way that differentiates it, and them, from traditional gentrifiers, and from the traditional urban upper classes ... Super-gentrification is quite different from the classical version of gentrification. It's of a higher economic order; you need a much higher salary and bonuses to live in Barnsbury\" (some two miles north of central London).\n\nBarnsbury was built around 1820, as a middle-class neighbourhood, but after the Second World War (1939–1945), many people moved to the suburbs. The upper and middle classes were fleeing from the working class residents of London; the modern railway allowed it. At the war's end, the great housing demand rendered Barnsbury a place of cheap housing, where most people shared accommodation. In the late 1950s and early 1960s, people moving into the area had to finance house renovations with their money, because banks rarely financed loans for Barnsbury. Moreover, the rehabilitating spark was \"The 1959 Housing Purchase and Housing Act\", investing £100 million to rehabilitating old properties and infrastructure. As a result, the principal population influx occurred between 1961 and 1975; the UK Census reports that \"between the years of 1961 and 1981, owner-occupation increased from 7 to 19 per cent, furnished rentals declined from 14 to 7 per cent, and unfurnished rentals declined from 61 to 6 per cent\"; another example of urban gentrification is the super-gentrification, in the 1990s, of the neighboring working-class London Borough of Islington, where Prime minister Tony Blair moved upon his election in 1997.\n\nFrom a market standpoint, there are two main requirements that are met by the U.S. cities that undergo substantial effects of gentrification. These are: an excess supply of deteriorated housing in central areas, as well as a considerable growth in the availability of professional jobs located in central business districts. These conditions have been met in the U.S. largely as a result of suburbanization and other postindustrial phenomena.\n\nStarting in the 1960s and 1970s, U.S. industry has created a surplus of housing units as construction of new homes has far surpassed the rate of national household growth. However, the market forces that are dictated by an excess supply cannot fully explain the geographical specificity of gentrification in the U.S., for there are many large cities that meet this requirement and have not exhibited gentrification. The missing link is another factor that can be explained by particular, necessary demand forces. In U.S. cities in the time period from 1970 to 1978, growth of the central business district at around 20% did not dictate conditions for gentrification, while growth at or above 33% yielded appreciably larger gentrification activity. Succinctly, central business district growth will activate gentrification in the presence of a surplus in the inner city housing market.\n\nIn the U.S., these conditions were generated by the economic transition from manufacturing to post-industrial service economies. The post-World War II economy experienced a service revolution, which created white-collar jobs and larger opportunities for women in the work force, as well as an expansion in the importance of centralized administrative and cooperate activities. This increased the demand for inner city residences, which were readily available cheaply after much of the movement towards central city abandonment of the 1950s. The coupling of these movements is what became the trigger for the expansive gentrification of U.S. cities, including Atlanta, Baltimore, Boston, Philadelphia, St. Louis, and Washington, D.C.\n\nMeasurement of the rate of gentrification during the period from 1990 to 2010 in 50 U.S. cities showed an increase in the rate of gentrification from 9% in the decade of the 1990s to 20% in the decade from 2000 to 2010 with 8% of the urban neighborhoods in the 50 cities being affected.\n\nCities with a rate of gentrification of ≈40% or more in the decade from 2000 to 2010 included:\n\nCities with a rate of less than 10% in the decade from 2000 to 2010 included:\n\nGentrification in Atlanta has been taking place in its inner-city neighborhoods since the 1970s. Many of Atlanta's neighborhoods experienced the urban flight that affected other major American cities in the 20th century, causing the decline of once upper and upper-middle-class east side neighborhoods. In the 1970s, after neighborhood opposition blocked two freeways from being built through the east side, its neighborhoods such as Inman Park and Virginia-Highland became the starting point for the city's gentrification wave, first becoming affordable neighborhoods attracting young people, and by 2000 having become relatively affluent areas attracting people from across Metro Atlanta to their upscale shops and restaurants. In the 1990s and 2000s, gentrification expanded into other parts of Atlanta, spreading throughout the historic streetcar suburbs east of Downtown and Midtown, mostly areas that had long had black majorities such as the Old Fourth Ward, Kirkwood, Reynoldstown and Edgewood. On the western side of the city, once-industrial West Midtown became a vibrant neighborhood full of residential lofts and a nexus of the arts, restaurants, and home furnishings. Gentrification by young African Americans was also taking place in the 1990s in southwest Atlanta neighborhoods. The BeltLine trail construction is expected to bring further gentrification in the neighborhoods alongside which it runs. Concerns about displacement of existing working-class black residents by increasing numbers of more affluent whites moving in are expressed by author Nathan McCall in his novel \"Them\", in The \"Atlanta Progressive News\", and in the documentary \"The Atlanta Way\".\n\nThe city of Boston has seen several neighborhoods undergo significant periods of urban renewal, specifically during the 1960s to the 1980s. Called \"turbo-gentrification\" by sociologist Alan Wolfe, particular areas of study of the process have been done in South End, Bay Village, and West Cambridge. In Boston's North End, the removal of the noisy Central Artery elevated highway attracted younger, more affluent new residents, in place of the traditional Italian immigrant culture.\nIn the early 1960s, Boston's South End had a great many characteristics of a neighborhood that is prime for gentrification. The available housing was architecturally sound and unique row houses in a location with high accessibility to urban transport services, while surrounded by small squares and parks. A majority of the area had also been designated a National Historic District.\n\nSouth End became deteriorated by the 1960s. Many of the row houses had been converted to cheap apartments, and the neighborhood was plagued by dominant, visible poverty. The majority of the residents were working-class individuals and families with a significant need for public housing and other social services. The situation was recognized by local governments as unfavorable, and in 1960 became the target of an urban renewal effort of the city.\n\nThe construction of the Prudential Tower complex that was finished in 1964 along the northwest border of South End was a spark for this urban-renewal effort and the gentrification process for the area that surrounded it. The complex increased job availability in the area, and the cheap housing stock of South End began to attract a new wave of residents. The next 15 years saw an influx of predominantly affluent, young professionals who purchased and renovated houses in South End. Unfortunately, tension characterized the relationship between these new residents and the previous residents of the neighborhood. Clashes in the vision for the area's future was the main source of conflict. The previous, poorer residents, contended that \"renewal\" should focus on bettering the plight of South End's poor, while new, middle-class residents heavily favored private market investment opportunities and shunned efforts such as subsidized housing with the belief that they would flood the market and raise personal security concerns.\n\nThe late 1940s was a transition for the area from primarily families with children as residents to a population dominated by both retired residents and transient renters. The 2–3 story brick row houses were largely converted to low-cost lodging houses, and the neighborhood came to be described as \"blighted\" and \"down at heel\". This deterioration was largely blamed on the transient population.\n\nThe year 1957 began the upgrading of what was to become Bay Village, and these changes were mainly attributed to new artists and gay men moving to the area. These \"marginal\" gentrifiers made significant efforts towards superficial beautification as well as rehabilitation of their new homes, setting the stage for realtors to promote the rising value of the area.\n\nOf the homebuyers in Bay Village from 1957 to 1975, 92% had careers as white-collar professionals. 42% of these homebuyers were 25–34 years old. The majority of them were highly educated and moving from a previous residence in the city, suggesting ties to an urban-based educational institution. The reasons new homebuyers gave for their choice of residence in Bay Village was largely attributed to its proximity to downtown, as well as an appreciation for city life over that of suburbia (Pattison 1977).\n\nThe development and gentrification of West Cambridge began in 1960 as the resident population began to shift away from the traditional majority of working class Irish immigrants. The period of 1960–1975 had large shifts in homebuyer demographics comparable to that experienced by Bay Village. Professional occupations were overrepresented in homebuyers during this 15-year period, as well as the age group of 25–34 years old. Residents reported a visible lack of social ties between new homebuyers and the original residents. However, displacement was not cited as a problem because the primary reason of housing sale remained the death of the sole-surviving member of the household or the death of a spouse.\n\nResearcher Timothy Pattison divided the gentrification process of West Cambridge into two main stages. Stage one began with various architects and architectural students who were attracted to the affordability of the neighborhood. The renovations efforts these \"marginal\" gentrifiers undertook seemed to spark a new interest in the area, perhaps as word of the cheap land spread to the wider student community.\n\nThe Peabody Schools also served as an enticing factor for the new gentrifiers for both stages of new homebuyers. Stage two of the process brought more architects to the area as well as non-architect professionals, often employed at a university institution. The buyers in stage two cited Peabody schools and the socioeconomic mix of the neighborhood as primary reasons for their residential choice, as well as a desire to avoid job commutes and a disenchantment with the suburban life.\n\nChicago's gentrification rate was reported to be 16.8% in 2015. But researchers have claimed that it has had a significant on specific urban neighborhoods and led to destabilization of black and Latino communities and their shared cultural identity.\n\n\"Gentrification Amid Urban Decline: Strategies for America's Older Cities\", by Michael Lang, reports the process and impact (social, economic, cultural) of gentrification. In particular, it focuses on the section of Darien Street (a north-south street running intermittently from South to North Philadelphia) which is essentially an alley in the populous Bella Vista neighborhood. That part of Darien Street was a \"back street\", because it does not connect to any of the city's main arteries and was unpaved for most of its existence.\n\nIn its early days, this area of Darien Street housed only Italian families; however, after the Second World War (1939–1945), when the municipal government spoke of building a cross-town highway, the families moved out. Most of the houses date from 1885 (built for the artisans and craftsmen who worked and lived in the area), but, when the Italian Americans moved out, the community's low-rent houses went to poor African American families. Moreover, by the early 1970s, blighted Darien Street was at its lowest point as a community, because the houses held little property value, many were abandoned, having broken heaters and collapsed roofs, et cetera. Furthermore, the houses were very small — approximately wide and deep, each had three one-room stories (locally known, and still currently advertised as a \"Trinity\" style house) and the largest yard was deep. Despite the decay, Darien Street remained charmed with European echoes, each house was architecturally different, contributing to the street's community character; children were safe, there was no car traffic. The closeness of the houses generated a closely knit community located just to the south of Center City, an inexpensive residential neighborhood a short distance from the city-life amenities of Philadelphia; the city government did not hesitate to rehabilitate it.\n\nThe gentrification began in 1977; the first house rehabilitated was a corner property that a school teacher re-modeled and occupied. The next years featured (mostly) white middle-class men moving into the abandoned houses; the first displacement of original Darien Street residents occurred in 1979. Two years later, five of seven families had been economically evicted with inflated housing prices; the two remaining families were renters, expecting eventual displacement. In five years, from 1977 to 1982, the gentrification of Darien Street reduced the original population from seven black households and one white household, to two black households and eleven white households. The average rent increased 488 per cent — from $85 to $500 a month; by 1981, a house bought for $5,000 sold for $35,000. Of the five black households displaced, three found better houses within two blocks of their original residence, one family left Pennsylvania, and one family moved into a public housing apartment building five blocks from Darien Street. The benefits of the Darien Street gentrification included increased property tax revenues and better-quality housing. The principal detriment was residential displacement via higher priced housing.\n\nGentrification in Washington, D.C. is one of the most studied examples of the process, as well as one of the most extreme. The process in the U Street Corridor and other downtown areas has recently become a major issue, and the resulting changes have led to African-Americans dropping from a majority to a minority of the population, as they move out and middle-class whites and Asians have moved in.\n\nWashington is one of the top three cities with the most pronounced capital flow into its \"core\" neighborhoods, a measurement that has been used to detect areas experiencing gentrification. Researcher Franklin James found that, of these core areas, Capitol Hill was significantly revitalized during the decade of 1960–1970, and by the end of the decade this revitalization had extended outward in a ring around this core area. Dennis Gale studied these \"Revitalization Areas,\" which include the Dupont Circle, Adams Morgan, and Capitol Hill neighborhoods, and as compared to the rest of the city found that these areas were experiencing a faster rate of depopulation in the 1970s than the surrounding areas. U.S. census data show that in the Revitalization Areas, the percentage of the population with four or more years of college education rose from 24% in 1970 to 47% in 1980, as opposed to an increase of 21% to 24% for the remaining areas of Washington. Additionally, Gale's data show that in 1970, 73% of the residents living in the Revitalization Areas had been residents since 1965; however, in 1975, only 66% of the residents living there had been residents of the area in 1970 as well.\n\nThe gentrification during this time period resulted in a significant problem of displacement for marginalized city residents in the 1970s. A decrease in the stock of affordable housing for needy households as well as nonsubsidized housing for low-income workers has had a burdensome effect on individuals and families.\n\nAs a result of gentrification, however, Washington's safety has improved drastically. In the early 1990s, the city had an average of 500 homicides a year; by 2012, the rate had dropped by more than 80% to about 100 before again seeing a 54% spike in 2015 over 2014. Many of the city's poorer residents were pushed out to adjacent Prince George's County, Maryland and further south to Charles County, Maryland. Prince George's County saw a huge spark of violent crimes in 2008 and 2009, but the rate has decreased since then.\n\nA major driver of gentrification in Bay Area cities such as San Francisco has been attributed with the Dot-Com Boom in the 1990s, creating a strong demand for skilled tech workers from local startups and nearby Silicon Valley businesses leading to rising standards of living. Private shuttle buses operated by companies such as Google have driven up rents in areas near their stops, leading to some protests. As a result, a large influx of new workers in the internet and technology sector began contributing to the gentrification of historically poor immigrant neighborhoods such as the Mission District. During this time San Francisco began a transformation, eventually culminating in it becoming the most expensive city in which to live in the United States.\n\nFrom 1990 to 2010, 18,000 African Americans left San Francisco, while the White, Asian, and Hispanic populations saw growth in the city. From 2010 to 2014, the number of households making $100,000 grew while households making less than $100,000 declined. According to the American Community Survey, during this same period an average of 60,000 people both migrated to San Francisco and migrated out. The people who left the city were more likely to be nonwhite, have lower education levels, and have lower incomes than their counterparts who moved into the city. In addition, there was a net annual migration of 7,500 people age 35 or under, and net out migration of over 5,000 for people 36 or over.\n\n, gentrification in Canada has proceeded quickly in older and denser cities such as Montreal, Toronto, Ottawa, Hamilton and Vancouver, but has barely begun in places such as Calgary, Edmonton, or Winnipeg, where suburban expansion is still the primary type of growth. Since Canada did not experience the same degree of \"white flight\" as in the U.S. during the 1960s and 70s, the term \"gentrification\" in Canada is not synonymous with predominantly-white people moving into the neighborhoods of people of color, as it is in the United States. In fact in Toronto and Vancouver recent Asian immigrants and foreign buyers are also major purchasers of downtown housing, contributing to a major housing price spike in those cities in 2011.\n\nIn Quebec City. The Saint Roch district in the city's lower town was previously predominantly working class and had gone through a period of decline. However, since the early to mid 2000's, the area has seen the derelict buildings turned into condos and the opening of bars, restaurants and cafes, attracting young professionals into the area, but kicking out the residents from many generations back. Several software developers and gaming companies, such as Ubisoft and Benox have also opened offices there.\n\nIn Paris, most poor neighborhoods in the east have seen rising prices and the arrival of many wealthy residents. However, the process is mitigated by social housing and most cities tend to favor a \"social mix\"; that is, having both low and high-income residents in the same neighborhoods. But in practice, social housing does not cater to the poorest segment of the population; most residents of social dwellings are from the low-end of the middle class. As a result, a lot of poor people have been forced to go first to the close suburbs (1970 to 2000) and then more and more to remote \"periurban areas\" where public transport is almost nonexistent. The close suburbs (Saint-Ouen, Saint Denis, Aubervilliers, ...) are now in the early stages of gentrification although still poor. A lot of high-profile companies offering well-paid jobs have moved near Saint-Denis and new real-estate programs are underway to provide living areas close to the new jobs.\n\nOn the other side, the eviction of the poorest people to periurban areas since 2000 has been analyzed as the main cause for the rising political far-right national front. When the poor lived in the close suburbs, their problems were very visible to the wealthy population. But the periurban population and its problem is mainly \"invisible\" from recent presidential campaign promises. These people have labelled themselves \"les invisibles\". Many of them fled both rising costs in Paris and nearby suburbs with an insecure and ugly environment to live in small houses in the countryside but close to the city. But they did not factor in the huge financial and human cost of having up to four hours of transportation every day. Since then, a lot has been invested in the close suburbs (with new public transports set to open and urban renewal programs) they fled, but almost nobody cares of these \"invisible\" plots of land. Since the close suburbs are now mostly inhabited by immigrants, these people have a strong resentment against immigration: They feel everything is done for new immigrants but nothing for the native French population.\n\nThis has been first documented in the book \"Plaidoyer pour une gauche populaire\" by think-tank Terra-Nova which had a major influence on all contestants in the presidential election (and at least, Sarkozy, François Hollande, and Marine Le Pen). This electorate voted overwhelmingly in favor of Marine Le Pen and Sarkozy while the city centers and close suburbs voted overwhelmingly for François Hollande.\n\nMost major metropolises in France follow the same pattern with a belt of periurban development about 30 to 80 kilometers of the center where a lot of poor people moved in and are now trapped by rising fuel costs. These communities have been disrupted by the arrival of new people and already suffered of high unemployment due to the dwindling numbers of industrial jobs.\n\nIn smaller cities, the suburbs are still the principal place where people live and the center is more and more akin to a commercial estate where a lot of commercial activities take place but where few people live.\n\nThe \"Bo-Kaap\" pocket of Cape Town nestles against the slopes of Signal Hill. It has traditionally been occupied by members of South Africa's minority, mainly Muslim, Cape Malay community. These descendants of artisans and political captives, brought to the Cape as early as the 18th century as slaves and indentured workers, were housed in small barrack-like abodes on what used to be the outskirts of town. As the city limits increased, property in the Bo-Kaap became very sought after, not only for its location but also for its picturesque cobble-streets and narrow avenues. Increasingly, this close-knit community is \"facing a slow dissolution of its distinctive character as wealthy outsiders move into the suburb to snap up homes in the City Bowl at cut-rate prices\". Inter-community conflict has also arisen as some residents object to the sale of buildings and the resultant eviction of long-term residents.\n\nIn Italy, similarly to other countries around the world, the phenomenon of gentrification is proceeding in the largest cities, such as Milan, Turin, Genoa and Rome.\n\nIn Milan, gentrification is changing the look of some semi-central neighborhoods, just outside the inner ring road (called \"Cerchia dei Bastioni\"), particularly of former working class and industrial areas.\nOne of the most well known cases is the neighborhood of Isola. Despite its position, this area has been for a long time considered as a suburb since it has been an isolated part of the city, due to the physical barriers such as the railways and the Naviglio Martesana. In the 1950s, a new business district was built not far from this area, but Isola remained a distant and low-class area. In the 2000s vigorous efforts to make Isola as a symbolic place of the Milan of the future were carried out and, with this aim, the Porta Garibaldi-Isola districts became attractors for stylists and artists. Moreover, in the second half of the same decade, a massive urban rebranding project, known as \"Progetto Porta Nuova\", started and the neighborhood of Isola, despite the compliances residents have had, has been one of the regenerated areas, with the \"Bosco Verticale\" and the new \"Giardini di Porta Nuova\".\n\nAnother semi-central district that has undergone this phenomenon in Milan is Zona Tortona. Former industrial area situated behind Porta Genova station, Zona Tortona is nowadays the mecca of Italian design and annually hosts some of the most important events of the \"Fuorisalone\" during which more than 150 expositors, such as Superstudio, take part. In Zona Tortona, some of important landmarks, related to culture, design and arts, are located such as \"Fondazione Pomodoro\", the \"Armani/Silos\", \"Spazio A\" and \"MUDEC\".\n\nGoing towards the outskirts of the city, other gentrified areas of Milan are Lambrate-Ventura (where others events of the \"Fuorisalone\" are hosted), Bicocca and Bovisa (in which universities have contributed to the gentrification of the areas), Sesto San Giovanni, Via Sammartini, and the so-called NoLo district (which means \"Nord di Loreto\").\n\nIn Poland, gentrification is proceeding mostly in the big cities like Warsaw, Łódź, Cracow, Silesian Metropolis, Poznań, Wrocław. The reason of this is both de-industrialisation and poor condition of residential areas.\n\nThe biggest European ongoing gentrification process has been occurring in Łódź from the beginning of 2010s. Huge unemployment (24% in 1990s) caused by the downfall of the garment industry created both economic and social problems. Moreover, vast majority of industrial and housing facilities had been constructed in the late 19th century and the renovation was neglected after WWII. Łódź authorities rebuilt the industrial district into the New City Center. This included re-purposing buildings including the former electrical power and heating station into the Łódź Fabryczna railway station and the EC1 Science Museum.\n\nThere are other significant gentrifications in Poland, such as:\n\nNowadays the Polish government has started National Revitalization Plan which ensures financial support to municipal gentrification programs.\n\nIn East Harlem, the phenomenon of gentrification has led to an influx of tourists and development. Lower income neighborhoods are now subject to higher rents as well as costs of living. Black and Latino communities in the area are being displaced rapidly due to higher costs of living. There has been a decrease in the supply of for affordable housing in favor of more expensive condos. Non-subsidized housing for lower income individuals has also decreased with new development in the area. East Harlem, being roughly 20 minutes away from New Jersey, The Bronx and midtown Manhattan, seems to be the right candidate for a new wave of gentrification in rural areas. The gentrification process in the area results in a widespread displacement of small business owners who struggle to adapt to new competing businesses such as retailers, bars and restaurants.\n\nThe Movement for Justice in El Barrio is an immigrant-led, organized group of tenants who resist against gentrification in East Harlem, New York. This movement has 954 members and 95 building communities. On 8 April 2006, the MJB gathered people to protest in the New York City Hall against an investment bank in the United Kingdom that purchased 47 buildings and 1,137 homes in East Harlem. News of these protests reached England, Scotland, France and Spain. MJB made a call to action that everyone, internationally, should fight against gentrification. This movement gained international traction and also became known as the International Campaign Against Gentrification in El Barrio.\n\nOn 26 September 2015, a cereal cafe in East London called Cereal Killer Cafe was attacked by a large group of anti-gentrification protestors. These protestors carried with them a pig's head and torches, stating that they were tired of unaffordable luxury flats going into their neighbourhoods. These protestors were alleged to primarily be \"middle-class academics,\" who were upset by the lack of community and culture that they once saw in East London. People targeted Cereal Killer Cafe during their protest because of an alleged article in which one of the brothers with ownership of the cafe had said marking up prices was necessary as a business in the area. After the attack on the cafe, users on Twitter were upset that protestors had targeted a small business as the focus of their demonstration, as opposed to a larger one.\n\nThe San Francisco tech bus protests occurred in late 2013 in the San Francisco Bay Area in the United States, protesting against tech shuttle buses that take employees to and from their homes in the Bay Area to workplaces in Silicon Valley. Protestors said the buses were symbolic of the gentrification occurring in the city, rising rent prices, and the displacement of small businesses. This protest gained global attention and also inspired anti-gentrification movements in East London.\n\nOn November 22, 2017, ink! Coffee, a small coffee shop, placed a manufactured metal Sandwich board sign on the sidewalk outside one of their Denver locations in the historic Five Points, Denver neighborhood. The sign said “Happily gentrifying the neighborhood since 2014” on one side and \"Nothing says gentrification like being able to order a cortado” on the other side.\n\nInk's ad ignited outrage and garnered national attention when a picture of the sign was shared on social media by a prominent Denver writer, Ru Johnson. The picture of the sign quickly went viral accumulating critical comments and negative reviews. Ink! responded to the social media outrage with a public apology followed by a lengthier apology from its founder, Keith Herbert. Ink's public apology deemed the sign a bad joke causing even more outrage on social media. The ad design was created by a Five Points, Denver firm named Cultivator Advertising & Design. The advertising firm responded to the public's dismay by issuing an ill-received social media apology, \"An Open Letter to Our Neighbors\".\n\nThe night following the debut of ink's controversial ad campaign their Five Points, Denver location was vandalized. A window was broken and the words \"WHITE COFFEE\" among others were spray-painted onto the front of the building. Protest organizers gathered at the coffee shop daily following the controversy. The coffee shop was closed for business the entire holiday weekend following the scandal.\n\nAt least 200 people attended a protest and boycott event on November 25, 2017 outside of ink!'s Five Points location. News of the controversy was covered by media outlets worldwide.\n\nOn March 3, 2018, an anarchist group vandalized coffee shops, luxury automobiles, and restaurants on Locke Street in Hamilton, Ontario. The attack was linked to an anarchist group in the city known as The Tower, that aimed to highlight issues of gentrification in Hamilton through vandalizing new businesses. On March 7, The Tower's free community library was vandalized by what the group referred to as \"far-right goons\". Investigation followed, with arrests related to the Locke Street vandalism being made by Hamilton police in April and June 2018.\n\n\nGeneral:\n\n"}
{"id": "74847", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=74847", "title": "Geographer", "text": "Geographer\n\nA geographer is a scientist whose area of study is geography, the study of Earth's natural environment and human society. The Greek prefix, \"geo,\" means \"earth\" and the Greek suffix, \"graphy,\" meaning \"description,\" so a geographer is someone who studies the earth. The word \"geography\" is a Middle French word that is believed to have been first used in 1540.\n\nAlthough geographers are historically known as people who make maps, map making is actually the field of study of cartography, a subset of geography. Geographers do not study only the details of the natural environment or human society, but they also study the reciprocal relationship between these two. For example, they study how the natural environment contributes to the human society and how the human society affects the natural environment.\n\nIn particular, physical geographers study the natural environment while human geographers study human society. Modern geographers are the primary practitioners of the GIS (geographic information system), who are often employed by local, state, and federal government agencies as well as in the private sector by environmental and engineering firms.\n\nThe paintings by Johannes Vermeer titled \"The Geographer\" and \"The Astronomer\" are both thought to represent the growing influence and rise in prominence of scientific enquiry in Europe at the time of their painting in 1668–69.\n\nThe ancient Greeks discovered much of the knowledge that formed the basis for later scientific and geographical discoveries. Eratosthenes of Cyrene (born circa 276 BCE in Cyrene, Libya; died circa 194 BCE in Alexandria, Egypt) was a Greek writer, poet, astronomer, and geographer who created the first known measurements of the Earth's circumference. Eratosthenes used the angles at which the sun's rays fall on the ground to calculate the curvature of the Earth's surface, which he then used to determine the full horizontal length around the Earth. According to the works of Aristotle, other scientists had estimated the circumference of the Earth prior to Eratosthenes's discovery, but the records of the specific methods and calculations that they used did not survive.\n\nHipparchus (born in Nicaea, Bithynia [now Iznik, Turkey]; believed to have died after 127 BC in Rhodes) is best known for using astronomical studies to predict the movements and positions of celestial bodies such as the sun, moon, and stars. He discovered the equinoxes (autumnal equinox and spring equinox) and calculated the length of the solar year. Hipparchus was also the first to correctly determine the distance between the earth and the moon (which he believed was equal to 63 times the earth's radius, although it is actually equal to 60 times the earth's radius). Building upon this knowledge, he developed the parallax theory to explain the apparent displacement of celestial bodies relative to the observer's vantage point.\n\nAlexander von Humboldt (born Sept. 14, 1769 in Berlin; died May 6, 1859) was a German geographer, naturalist and explorer who made major contributions to the field of biogeography by producing break-through research on the connection between the climate of a region and the plant life growing there. The records he kept of his travels provided highly valuable data on the geography of Central Asia, which was not very well understood by Europeans at the time. Furthermore, with the help of Sir Edward Sabine, he was able to prove that the origin of storms is extraterrestrial by showing the relationship between magnetic storms on earth with the changing activity of sun spots. In his latter years, Humboldt published a multi-volume series of books called \"Kosmos\", wherein he described the structure of the universe as it was then understood. Initially, he published four volumes, which were received with great success and were subsequently translated into almost every European language. Humboldt began work on the fifth volume, but died before it was completed (he was ninety years old). The Humboldt Current (also known as the Peru Current), which was named after him, is an ocean current that holds warm air off a 600-mile coastal region between Peru and Chile in South America, thereby keeping the climate cool. Humboldt had explored this region in 1802, and it is now known for containing the world's richest marine ecosystem.\n\nAlfred Russel Wallace, also known as A.R. Wallace, (born on Jan. 8, 1823, in Usk, Monmouthshire, Wales; died on Nov. 7, 1913, in Broadstone, Dorset, England), was a British naturalist, geographer, and social critic who is most known for formulating the theory of evolution by natural selection before Charles Darwin published his famous work on the same subject, \"The Origin of Species\". An avid traveler and explorer, Wallace became both rich and famous from the work he did identifying new animal species in Indonesia and the Amazon region. Importantly, Wallace discovered and defined the concept of \"speciation,\" which he discussed in a paper he published around 1865 describing his research on butterflies. Speciation refers to defining animal species based on their interbreeding capabilities; animals within the same species can breed with each other, but not with animals from other species. In this way, individual species can be identified for scientific classification purposes.\n\nSir Richard Francis Burton (born on March 19, 1821, in Torquay, Devonshire, England; died on October 20, 1890, in Trieste, Austria-Hungary [now in Italy]) is known for being the first European to discover Lake Tanganyika in east Africa and for gaining access to Muslim cities, which Europeans had previously been forbidden to access. Lake Tanganyika is estimated to be the second deepest and the second largest freshwater lake in the world and is believed to be one of the oldest lakes in the world (approximately twenty million years old by evolutionary timelines).\n\nStrabo (born circa 64 BC in Amaseia, Pontus; died some time after 21 AD) was a Greek geographer and historian who left a remarkably comprehensive written record of all the people and countries known to the Greeks and Romans around 27 BC-14 AD. This record, a book called \"Geography\", also provides information on the technology geographers used to study the world at that time as well as the history of the many of the countries mentioned in his records. Although Strabo's account is far from perfect (it assumes, for example, that the earth, then called oikoumene, is one giant landmass consisting of Europe, Asia, Africa, and their associated islands surrounded by a large ocean), his writing is highly valued for being a rich compilation of not only his own observations but also the research and ideas of other respected scientific figures and thinkers including Eratosthenes, Hipparchus, Polybius, Artemidorus, Apollodorus, Aristotle, and Strato.\n\nMuhammad al-Idrisi (born in 1100 in Ceutah, Morocco; died around 1165-66 in Ceutah) is known for compiling an enormous world geography for the Norman King of Sicily, Roger II. The book, subsequently named the \"Book of Roger\", was completed in January 1154 and was written as the commentary for a large map of the world created by al-Idrisi (also at the bequest of the King). An avid traveler himself, al-Idrisi relied on contemporary accounts of the world, the works of Ptolemy, as well as geographical literature from Greek, Latin, and Arabic sources to create his work. The \"Book of Roger\" contained fairly accurate information on the countries of Europe and was released in several editions although, as of the mid-1900s, the full text had never been edited.\n\nClaudius Ptolemy, known simply as Ptolemy, (born around 100 AD; died c. 170 AD) was an astronomer, mathematician, and geographer who lived in Alexandria and is known for (among other things) drawing detailed maps of what was known of the world at the time. Ptolemy's geographical works include tables of latitude and longitude and a discussion of how such lines could be mathematically calculated. In Ptolemy's most famous work, \"Almagest\", he comprehensively describes the layout of the stars and other astronomical objects as understood by ancient Greek and Babylonian scientists. He also put forth the idea of an earth-centered universe, an idea widely believed until the 1500s when Copernicus began to suggest that the earth and other planets in the solar system actually revolve around the sun (called the \"heliocentric\" (Sun-centered) theory). \n\nGerardus Mercator, originally name Gerard De Cremer or simply Kremer(?) (born on March 5, 1512 in Rupelmonde, Flanders [now in Belgium]; died on December 2, 1594 in Duisburg, Duchy of Cleve [now in Germany]) was a cartographer famous for creating a heart-shaped representation of the earth (also called the \"Mercator projection\" of the earth) in response to a demand for flat maps that could accurately depict the earth as a spherical object. Mercator was also the first to begin using the term \"atlas\" to describe a collection of maps. Because of his work, travelers and explorers could maintain a course over long distances using straight lines, thus eliminating the need to constantly adjust their compass readings in order to keep track of their movements.\n\nCharles Lyell (1797–1875) was a British geologist whose theory of Uniformitarianism significantly impacted the way modern scientists understand the earth's structure and how this structure can change over time. Uniformitarianism overturned the previously accepted theory of Catastrophism, which held that earth's features were formed by sudden, violent forces rather than by gradual changes over time. Lyell contended that major geological forces in effect today, including volcanic eruptions, earthquakes, and erosion due to wind, water, and gravity, have happened throughout earth's history and are responsible changing its surface features. The theory of evolution is believed to have gained acceptance in part because of Lyell's efforts to promote gradual biological change rather than change due to sudden, extreme events. Building upon the work of James Hutton, Charles Lyell is also responsible for spreading the idea that older rocks are buried underneath newer ones, which led scientists to begin studying fossils and rock layers in order to better understand the history of the earth's geography.\n\nPytheas, a Greek geographer, astronomer, and explorer who lived around 300 bc near Massalia, Gaul (a region comprising mostly modern-day France) is known for producing the first known records of the history of Britain. Pytheas's most important work, \"On the Ocean\", has since been lost, but most of what is known about him was recorded by the Greek historian, Polybius (approx. 200-118 BC). Through travel and detailed observation, Pytheas noticed that the length of the days increased as he traveled northward and that the moon affects the tides in the water. His travels took him to the northernmost parts of Europe including Thule (the northernmost inhabited island, roughly six days sail beyond Britain) and at least to the Arctic Circle (possible Norway or Iceland).\n\nSir Douglas Mawson (born in Yorkshire, England in 1882; died in Brighton, England in 1958) is known for his exploration of Antarctica, although he also studied uranium and other radioactive materials as a preeminent professor of geology at the University of Adelaide in Australia. Along with Edgeworth David and Dr. A.F. Mackay, Mawson was the first man to reach the summit of Mount Erebus, an ice-covered volcanic mountain approximately 11,400 feet high. His expeditions led Britain to surrender its claims over the Antarctic territory to Australia in 1936, and the methods he developed to survive in, and travel through, freezing climates paved the way for subsequent explorations of sub-zero regions.\n\nPiri Reis (born in 1465 in Gelibolu, Turkey; died in 1553 in Egypt) is famous for having made one of the oldest known maps (and the oldest Turkish map) of the New World. Piri began his career in the Ottoman-Turkish navy, rising to fame as an admiral (\"Reis\" is Turkish for \"admiral\" and is not actually part of Piri's birth name) and participating in many battles against Spanish, Genoese, Venetian, and Portuguese naval forces. In fact, it was during his time as a captain that he had the opportunity to show his world map to Sultan Selim I and Sultan Suleiman the Magnificent, which helped to establish his fame as a geographer. In 1513, Piri created his first world map. Only a third of this map has survived, and it has been found to accurately depict parts of North Africa, the European west coast, and the South American east coast. Between 1524-1525, Piri put together his most well-known geographical work, called \"Kitāb-ı Baḥrīye\", which was 434 pages long and consisted of 290 maps. It was revised and gifted to Suleiman the Magnificent. In 1528, Piri drew a second world map, which was also gifted to Suleiman the Magnificent, and that shows Greenland, parts of North America (from Newfoundland and Labrador in the north to Cuba, Jamaica, and Florida in the south), and parts of Central America. In 1553, Piri Reis was beheaded for refusing to support Kubad Pasha, an Ottoman Vali (Governor), in his campaign against the Portuguese in the northern Persian Gulf.\n\nThere are three major fields of study, which are further subdivided:\n\nThe National Geographic Society identifies five broad key themes for geographers:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1467295", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1467295", "title": "Gibraltarian status", "text": "Gibraltarian status\n\nGibraltarian status is a legal status in Gibraltar law defined by the Gibraltarian Status Act, 1962. Persons with Gibraltarian status are registered on the Register of Gibraltarians.\n\nThe term was coined in the 1920s at a time of increasing awareness of national identity and was popularised during World War II, when the civil population of Gibraltar was evacuated to the United Kingdom and other parts of the British Empire. In 1962, the term was made a legal status in Gibraltar through the \"Gibraltarian Status Ordinance (1962)\". The Ordinance became the \"Gibraltarian Status Act, 1962\" following the implementation of the Gibraltar Constitution Order 2006.\n\nThe \"Register of Gibraltarians\" pre-dates Gibraltarian status - the register was created in 1955 while Gibraltarian status originates with the \"Gibraltarian Status Act, 1962\". The 1962 Act provides a legal framework for the register, and defines who is eligible to be listed on the register.\n\nThe following is a summary of the eligibility for Gibraltarian status contained in the 1962 Act. See the text of the act for full details.\n\nA person is eligible to be registered as a Gibraltarian if they are a British national and:\n\n\nFurther provisions provide for the registration of adopted children.\n\nAdditionally, a person may be registered as a Gibraltarian at the discretion of the Government of Gibraltar minister with responsibility for personal status, if they satisfy the minister that:\n\n\nFurther provisions provide for the registration of children, adopted children and spouses of those registered at the discretion of the minister with responsibility for personal status.\n\nGibraltarians have full right of residence in Gibraltar.\n\n"}
{"id": "41227810", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41227810", "title": "Global surveillance by category", "text": "Global surveillance by category\n\nThis is a category of disclosures related to global surveillance.\n\n\nThe following table describes what is known about the below SIGINT Activity Designators (SIGADs). It is not presumed to be complete.\n\n\"Note: SIGADs not otherwise designated are presumed to operate under the legal authority of Section 702 of the FISA Amendments Act (FAA)\"\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nThe Government Communications Headquarters (GCHQ) is the main British intelligence agency responsible for providing signals intelligence (SIGINT) and information assurance to the British government and armed forces.\n\n\n\nIn cryptography, encryption is the process of encoding information in such a way that eavesdroppers or hackers cannot read it, but that authorized parties can. According to Snowden's recommendations published by \"The Guardian Edward\" in September 2013, properly implemented strong crypto systems were among the few things which one can rely on. However, endpoint security is often too weak to prevent the NSA from finding ways around it.\n\nIn September 2013, it was reported by the press that a number of countries deemed by the US and its allies to be rogue states, such as Syria, Iran and North Korea, had successfully evaded U.S. government surveillance by constructing secret bunkers deep below the Earth's surface.\n\nChina's underground megaproject, the 816 Nuclear Military Plant in Chongqing (now declassified and opened to tourists), was reported to be \"most worrying\" for the U.S. Defense Intelligence Agency.\n\nLibya evaded surveillance by building \"hardened and buried\" bunkers at least 40 feet below ground level.\n\n"}
{"id": "3096200", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3096200", "title": "Gonja language", "text": "Gonja language\n\nThe Gonja language is a North Guang language spoken by an estimated 230,000 people, almost all of whom are of the Gonja ethnic group of northern Ghana. Related to Guang languages in the south of Ghana, it is spoken by about a third of the population in the northern region. The Brong-Ahafo and Volta regions lie to the south of the Gonja-speaking area, while Dagombas, Mamprussis and Walas are to the north. Its dialects are Gonja and Choruba.\n\nVowels used are: \"a,e,i,o,ɔ,u,ɛ\". Consonants include: \"ch\" \", ŋm, ny, gb, kp, sh\" .\n\nPersonal pronouns as subject of the sentence:\n\nColin Painter, Gonja: a phonological and grammatical study, Indiana University, 1970\n"}
{"id": "46374378", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46374378", "title": "Hemalatha Lavanam", "text": "Hemalatha Lavanam\n\nHemalatha Lavanam (26 February 1932 —19 March 2008) was an Indian social reformer, writer, and atheist who protested against untouchability and the caste system. She was also a co-founder of Samskar with her husband, Lavanam. \n\nHemalatha was born on 26 February 1932 at Vinukonda in Madras Presidency of British India, now in the Guntur District of Andhra Pradesh, India. She was the daughter of Telugu poet Gurram Joshua and Mirayamma and the daughter-in-law of social reformer Goparaju Ramachandra Rao and Saraswathi Gora, who were atheist social reformers and founders of the Atheist Centre in Vijayawada.\n\nThrough Samskar, Lavanam and Hemlatha took part in historical surrenders of dacoits in Chambal Valley to Vinobha Bhave. Jaya Prakash Narayan inspired the couple to work on criminal rehabilitation. Hemlatha, Lavanam and volunteers from atheist centre participated actively in criminal reformation and rehabilitation in 1974 in the areas of erstwhile criminal settlements Sitanagaram, Stuartpuram, Kawali, and Kapparallathippa in Andhra Pradesh. They devoted their time to bring change in the mindset of criminal tribal shelter helped to provide alternative livelihood to criminal rehabilitated families. Hemalatha and Lavanam demended government of Andhra Pradesh to abolish settlements. Due to their efforts, the state government took a step in abolishing the managements and declaring them as free colonies in 1976. They visited the prisoners of Stuartpuram and kept constant contact through letters. The families of settlers visited Atheist center for advice. This contact changed some hardened criminals. They motivated the criminals to change from crime culture.\n\nHemalatha and Lavanam worked on upliftment and eradication of Joginis Nizamabad district through Samskar. Her work made the Chief Minister of Andhra Pradesh N. T. Rama Rao Government enact legislation in 1988 to eradicate the Jogini system, Kumud Ben Joshi, C. Rangarajan as Governor of Andhra pradesh oversaw the marriages for joginis in Rajbhavan, Hyderabad. Samskar founded Chelli Nilyam Sister's Home in verni of Nizamabad district.\n\nThe Joshua Foundation instituted the Joshua Sahitya Puraskaram, a national award for poets of any language who had enriched Indian literature with human values. The rationale was to promote national integration and encourage purposeful poetry.\n\nHemalatha received her doctorate in social work from Potti Sreeramulu Telugu University in Hyderabad. The National Book Trust of India published a biography of her in the National Biography series, written by Vakulabharanam Lalitha and Kompalli Sundar. K. Viyanna Rao, the Vice-Chancellor of Acharya Nagarjuna University, released the book and presented the first copy to her husband, Lavanam.\n\nIn 2004 she won the Ramineni Foundation Awards Viseesha Puraskaram. In 2003 she received a Red and White Bravery Award from Surjit Singh Barnala, the Governor of Andhra Pradesh, for her contribution to the field of social work.\n\nHemalatha suffered from ovarian cancer and died at the Atheist Centre, Vijayawada, on 19 March 2008. She was cremated without any religious rites.\n\n"}
{"id": "31313908", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31313908", "title": "Henry Thompson (veterinary surgeon)", "text": "Henry Thompson (veterinary surgeon)\n\nHenry Thompson (MRCVS) (Member of the Royal College of Veterinary Surgeons, 1836–1920) was a founder member of the Aspatria Agricultural Society, the Aspatria Agricultural Cooperative Society and the Aspatria Agricultural College.\n\nHenry Thompson was born at Allonby, Cumberland, on 9 September 1836, the youngest of seven children, his father a poor country tailor, earned 9s (45p) per week. At the age of thirteen Thompson became apprentice to Joseph Slee, a Maryport druggist, working from four in the morning to nine in the evening. He later moved to Whitehaven to learn veterinary practice under John Fisher, the most qualified veterinary surgeon in Cumberland. After a further two years learning the basic practical skills associated with the equerry business at Carlisle, he enrolled at the Edinburgh Veterinary College, where he studied under Professor William Dick (1793–1866), the founder of the Royal (Dick) School of Veterinary Studies. After five years of intensive study he graduated with several coveted qualifications; the Diploma of the Highland and Agricultural Society, the examination of the Royal College of Veterinary Surgeons, and the Royal Diploma. He became one of only two veterinary surgeons in Cumberland, to hold both Diploma's by examination. He obtained many academic distinctions including two silver medals for Anatomy and Physiology, and both first and second class certificates for Chemistry, Histology and Pathology.\n\nOn 4 June 1860, he arrived at Aspatria with ‘half-a-crown’ (12.5p) in his pocket to take up the position of junior partner in the towns veterinary practice. He befriended Sir Wilfrid Lawson, 2nd Baronet of Brayton and together they became two of the prominent members of the Wigton, and later Aspatria Farmers Club. In 1869, along with William Norman and John Twentyman, the ‘dauntless three’ as they became known, he organised the annual Aspatria Agricultural Show. In the following year the trio founded the Aspatria Agricultural Cooperative Society and in 1874 they established the Aspatria Agricultural and Commercial School, later renamed the Aspatria Agricultural College. In 1893, after the sale of the Agricultural School the outgoing directors and shareholders acknowledged his many hours of unpaid tuition with the presentation of a piano, and a gold watch.\n\nHe had many professional triumphs. He was one of the first to experiment with salt as a dressing on the land as a means of destroying insect pests. During his experiments he also discovered that salt acted as a deterrent to other parasitic and microbial diseases, such as ‘red water’ in cattle. He also anticipated the cure of milk fever in cattle, a discovery later attributed to the Danish biologist Karl Schmidt. In 1895 he enjoyed a degree of success in the treatment of foot and mouth, having seen many cases of the disease, and noted the heavy loss of cattle particularly when calving.\nAs a writer he was an authority on veterinary and agricultural matters. For over forty years he edited the periodical, ‘North British Agriculturist’. His book entitled, Elementary Veterinary Science for Agricultural Students, Farmers, and Stock-Keepers, remains an authoritative text book 120 years after its first publication (1895) and is available in paperback form today. It went into seven editions, and was translated and referred to by all sides in the Great War. ‘Greens’ encyclopaedia (the leading authority of the day), contained thirty-six articles appearing under his name.\n\nThere were many examples of his civic work. He was a member of the Aspatria Urban District Council, the Wigton Board of Guardians; a Director of the West Cumberland Dairy Company, and the Aspatria Gas Works. He was president of the Aspatria RUFC, a trustee of the Aspatria National Schools; a founder member of the Aspatria Volunteer Fire Brigade. He was also a collector of public subscriptions initiated to erect the districts first footpaths. He was secretary of the Aspatria Agricultural College, the Cumberland Steam Ploughing Society and the Aspatria Model Building Society. He was also a member of the Council of Veterinary Associations, and the secretary to the Aspatria Agricultural Cooperative Society, for over fifty years. He was also an authority on the Cumbrian dialect.\n\nHarry Thompson preached the gospel of cooperation at every available opportunity and never tired of demonstrating its value to farmers. He succeeded in combating their apathy and their individuality, and worked for the society with a singleness and purpose that no monetary value ever did or could compensate. After the death of the ‘Grand Old Man of Cumberland Farming’ the following tribute appeared in the pages of the ‘Wheatsheaf’ magazine. \n"}
{"id": "50244594", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50244594", "title": "Himaja", "text": "Himaja\n\nHimaja (born 2 November) is an Indian film actor who works primarily in Telugu cinema.\n"}
{"id": "27214574", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27214574", "title": "Hokkien influence on Singaporean Mandarin", "text": "Hokkien influence on Singaporean Mandarin\n\nSingaporean Hokkien is the largest non-Mandarin Chinese dialect spoken in Singapore. As such, it exerts the greatest influence on Colloquial Singaporean Mandarin, resulting in a Hokkien-style Singaporean Mandarin widely spoken in Singapore. The colloquial Hokkien-style Singaporean Mandarin can differ from Mandarin in terms of vocabulary, phonology and grammar.\n\nSome Hokkien Singaporeans are unable to accurately pronounce the sounds of Standard Mandarin due to influences from their Hokkien mother tongue. These include consonants such as \"f, z, zh, s, r\". They also pronounce some vowels and rhymes such as \"i, e, en, eng\" differently. In terms of tone, they often bring the checked tone (入声) of Hokkien into Mandarin.\n\nThe use of Hokkien vocabulary in Singaporean Mandarin can be categorized as such:\n\nSome Hokkien words with the same meaning are used to replace standard Mandarin words.\n\nSome Hokkien mono-syllabic words are used instead of two-syllable words in Mandarin.\n\nThe suffix of certain Mandarin words might be omitted in colloquial Singaporean Mandarin due to the use of Hokkien mono-syllabic words. For instance, the suffix \" zi\" is commonly omitted in colloquial Singaporean Mandarin.\n\nA morpheme in Mandarin is removed from a two-syllable word, leaving a one-syllable word, which is used in Hokkien.\n\nSome multi-syllable words in Standard Mandarin might be used with a different word order (reversed or changed) in Hokkien, and the latter's word order is adopted into Singaporean Mandarin.\n\nCertain words in Standard Mandarin have a different meaning in Hokkien, and this difference is adopted by Singaporean Mandarin.\n\nSome examples of these are listed below.\n\nSingaporean Hokkien has influenced Singaporean Mandarin Grammar in 5 main areas.\n\nThe word order refers to the order or sequence of how words are arranged in combination. Because of influence from Singaporean Hokkien, the word order in certain phrases are replaced by that of Singaporean Hokkien, or are simultaneously used with that of Singaporean Mandarin.\n\nIn Standard Mandarin, certain object in predicate structure are put after a complement. However, the \"verb/object + complement\" structure is used in Singaporean Mandarin.\n\nExamples are shown in the table below:\n\nOverlapping word order in Singaporean Mandarin sometimes differ from that of Standard Mandarin.\n\nExamples are shown in the table below:\n\nCertain mono-syllabic adjectives and verbs or two-syllable adjectives and verbs in Singaporean Hokkien have entered into Singaporean Mandarin. These are used together with their counterparts in Standard Mandarin.\n\nExamples are shown in the table below:\n\nCertain components of a sentence that are used in Standard Mandarin are omitted in colloquial Singaporean Mandarin, due to Hokkien influence on the latter.\n\nCertain directional verbs are omitted or dropped in Singaporean Mandarin.\n\nExamples are shown in the table below:\n\nThe word \"得\" used in the sentence structure between a verb and a complement has been omitted in colloquial Singaporean Mandarin\n\nExamples are shown in the table below:\n\nCertain numbers, which are expressed in Standard Mandarin, are omitted in colloquial Singaporean Mandarin.\n\nExamples are shown in the table below:\n\nCertain word groupings and arrangements in colloquial Singaporean Mandarin sentences are greatly influenced by Hokkien.\n\nIn Mandarin, the words \"有\" and \"无\" generally do not act as complementary verbs. But due to influence from Hokkien, colloquial Singaporean Mandarin uses them as complementary verbs.\n\nExamples are shown in the table below:\n\nIn a \"verb+complement\" sentence structure, standard Mandarin uses the word 得 to link the verb and complement. Singapore Mandarin, due to influence from Hokkien, uses the word 到 instead.\n\nExamples are shown in the table below:\n\nCertain Singapore Mandarin sentence structures use the word 去 as the resultative complement, where another character (such as 掉) might be used in Standard Mandarin.\n\nExamples are shown in the table below:\n\nA classifier (measure words) which is used with a certain noun in Hokkien might also be used similarly in Singapore Mandarin with the same noun, whereas another classifier might be used for that same word in Standard Mandarin.\n\nExamples are shown in the table below:\n\nCertain sentence structures used in Singapore Mandarin are influenced by Hokkien, and differ from their Standard Mandarin counterparts.\n\nSome cases are listed in the following sub-sections.\n\nThe word \"有\" (you) is usually added in front of a verb or verb predicate to indicate an existing action or completed status.\n\nThe use of word \"会\" (hui)[literally \"can\"] is used in colloquial Singaporean Hokkien, and such a use has entered Singapore Mandarin.\n\nThe word \"了\" is often pronounced as \"liǎo\" instead of \"le\".\n\nColloquial Singaporean Mandarin often involves the addition of Hokkien sentence-final particles such as \"嘛\" (ma), \"啦\"(la) or \"咧\"(lēh).\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "254637", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=254637", "title": "Hustler", "text": "Hustler\n\nHustler is a monthly pornographic magazine published in the United States. It was first published in 1974 by Larry Flynt. It was a step forward from the \"Hustler Newsletter\", which was cheap advertising for his strip club businesses at the time. The magazine grew from a shaky start to a peak circulation of around 3 million; it has since dropped to approximately 500,000. It shows explicit views of the female genitalia, becoming one of the first major US-based magazines to do so, in contrast with relatively modest publications like \"Playboy\".\n\nToday, \"Hustler\" is still considered more explicit (and more self-consciously lowbrow) than such well-known competitors as \"Playboy\" and \"Penthouse\". It frequently depicts hardcore themes, such as the use of sex toys, penetration and group sex.\n\nLarry Flynt Publications also licenses Hustler brand to the Hustler Casino in Gardena, California which is owned directly by Larry Flynt as an individual through his holding company El Dorado Enterprises, the Hustler Club chain of bars and clubs, and Hustler store chain that sells adult-oriented videos, clothing, magazines and sex toys. The chain's flagship store is on Sunset Boulevard in West Hollywood.\n\nThe business first began in Cincinnati. Here, Larry Flynt and his brother, Jimmy Flynt, opened up a store in 1969. Jimmy wrote the check for $5,000 to pay for the club in Cincinnati, and he was listed as the masthead for volume 1, number 1 of the magazine in July, 1974. However, Larry fired his brother in 2009, and since then he has been trying to make a business grow all on his own, called Jimmy Flynt's Sexy Gifts Stand. An old member of Hustler magazine has described the relationship, saying, \"Larry is the show, and Jimmy makes it go\".\n\n\"Hustler\" is officially published by LFP, Inc, which also produces pornographic films. The abbreviation \"L.F.P.\" originally stood for \"Larry Flynt Publications.\"\n\nA Canadian version of \"Hustler\" is published by a Quebec-based firm. This magazine is not owned by Larry Flynt, but is licensed to publish material from the American version. In general, Canadian \"Hustler\" imitates the appearance and tone of its American counterpart, with Canadian content added. In 1999, the magazine created a minor controversy in Canada by inviting readers to submit sexually explicit stories about Sheila Copps, a left-leaning member of the Liberal cabinet. There have also been Australian, British and South African versions of the magazine.\n\nDuring a bookstore signing in July 2011, Flynt stated that less than five percent of his income comes from the print magazine; he also speculated that the print magazine will not be around in 2 to 3 years.\n\nOne feature of \"Hustler\" is a column called \"Asshole of the Month\". In every monthly issue of the magazine, a public figure is selected for severe criticism as that month's \"asshole\". An illustration depicting the criticized person's head emerging from the anus of a cartoon donkey is shown alongside the article. After Flynt's imprisonment in 1977 and his alleged conversion to evangelical Christianity, he promised to reform \"Asshole of the Month\". However, as of 2016, reform in the feature has yet to be seen.\n\nIn the 1970s, \"Hustler\" ran a comic strip feature entitled \"Honey Hooker\". In each installment, Honey would have graphic sexual encounters with any male (or female) she ran across. She might be in American colonial times one month or in a Super Bowl locker room the next. This feature was designed to compete against \"Playboy\"<nowiki>'</nowiki>s Little Annie Fanny and \"Penthouse\"<nowiki>'</nowiki>s Wicked Wanda. In keeping with \"Hustler\"'s focus on the seamier and less romantic aspects of sexuality, Honey Hooker, unlike Fanny and Wanda, was explicitly portrayed as being a prostitute.\n\nThe \"Beaver Hunt\" section of the magazine contains explicit nudes of amateur models submitted by readers.\n\nAnother \"Hustler\" feature that was heavily criticized was the \"Chester the Molester\" cartoon. Each month's issue depicted Chester, a cartoon middle-aged pedophile, joyfully raping girls. Following Flynt's alleged religious conversion, he introduced \"Chester the Protector\", a reincarnation of the molester character who served as a hero to protect young girls from rape and seduction.\n\nA regular feature entitled \"Ads We'd Like to See\" recreates advertisements of everyday products in a sexualized or violent way. For example, an advertisement in the 1980 issue called 'Doer's Lite Label', a parody of Dewar's Lite Label Whiskey, featured Kenneth Bianchi, the Hillside Strangler. Listed as his greatest accomplishment was Cindy Lee Hudspeth, whom he actually strangled in 1978. He is quoted as saying \"You gotta treat 'em rough…\". This section was highly criticized for admiring men who had committed sexualized crimes against women.\n\nIn addition to its regular features, \"Hustler\" occasionally published special features and issues. Examples include the \"All Meat\" issue from 1978, where the cover spread depicted a naked woman being fed into a meat grinder upside down. In 1977, the magazine's front page read \"First-Time Ever Scratch 'N' Sniff Centerfold\".\n\nIn 1984, conservative academic Judith Reisman received a grant from the Department of Justice to complete a study at American University concerning the cartoons of \"Playboy\", \"Penthouse\", and \"Hustler\", specifically the sexual depictions of minors in these cartoons. She finished the study in 1986, and found that on average, the number of times per issue that \"Hustler\" referred to children, crime, and violence was 46.\n\nReisman published a nearly 1,600-page report of her findings, condemning the sexual depictions of children in pornographic magazines, but her work was met with criticism from her peers. An American University professor, Dr. Myra Sadker, said that she was \"very dismayed about the quality of office management and the nature of the research that was going on.\" Many fellow academics have disputed the neutrality of the research. Avedon Carol, a sex crime researcher and author, said that Reisman's study was a \"scientific disaster, riddled with researcher bias.\"\n\n\"Hustler\"'s chief cartoon artist Dwaine Tinsley was arrested on May 18, 1989, after being accused by his 18-year-old daughter Allison of molesting her since she was thirteen years old. According to court records, he allegedly told his coworkers, \"You can't write about this stuff all the time if you don't experience it.\" Tinsley was found guilty of five counts of child molestation and sentenced to six years in prison although he only spent 23 months behind bars. Tinsley was the artist behind the regular \"Chester the Molester\" series, which ran from 1976 to 1989.\n\nIn a 2012 issue of \"Hustler\", S. E. Cupp, a conservative commentator, was photoshopped and depicted as explicitly performing oral sex. The article describes Cupp as a \"lovely young lady who read too much Ayn Rand in high school and ended up joining the dark side...But her hotness is diminished when she espouses dumb ideas like defunding Planned Parenthood.\" Despite having a disclaimer that the photo was not real, the photograph horrified Cupp, knowing that \"this photo will be out there forever.\" Flynt's response was that the photoshopped image was meant to be satirical, quoting that \"I'm able to publish this because of the Supreme Court case I won in 1984, Flynt V. Falwell.\" Cupp will not be pursuing either Flynt or the magazine because of \"free speech\".\n\nHustler's American flag hijab cover was criticized as an attack on American patriotism and Islam.\n\nThe magazine has had many lawsuits since the 1980s, including claims of defamation and enforcement of sexual violence and behavior. However, there have not been any lawsuits against the magazine or incorporation as of 2016.\n\nIn \"Douglass v. Hustler Magazine Inc.\", actress Robyn Douglass sued \"Hustler\" for defamation and unlawfully placing her under a false light. Douglass posed nude for freelance photographer Augustin Gregory, believing that her photos would appear on an issue of \"Playboy Magazine\". However, Gregory was hired to \"Hustler\" and Douglass' photos were published in the 1981 January issue without Douglass' consent. She brought the case to the United States District Court from the North District of Illinois on the basis that the magazine had defamed her name and likeness. The court cases ended in favoring Douglass since the magazine had violated her right of publicity, awarding her $600,000.\n\nIn the 1984 \"Keeton v. Hustler Magazine, Inc.\" court case, Kathy Keeton, vice chairman of \"Penthouse\", sued \"Hustler\" for defamation. Keeton brought the case to New Hampshire due its generous six-year statute of limitations for libel and the state believed it was able to support taking jurisdiction due to the magazine's content. The magazine sold up to 15,000 issues since 1975, containing a cartoon where Keeton had received a venereal disease from Robert Guccione, a publisher of Penthouse. Keeton was awarded $2 million for the defamation damages.\n\nHustler Magazine, Inc. v. Falwell, 485 U.S. 46 (1988), is a United States Supreme Court case in which the Court held that the First and Fourteenth Amendments prohibit public figuresfrom recovering damages for the tort of intentional infliction of emotional distress (IIED), if the emotional distress was caused by a caricature, parody, or satire of the public figure that a reasonable person would not have interpreted as factual.\n\nIn \"Herceg v. Hustler\" (1989), a family attempted to sue \"Hustler\" for the suicide of their fourteen-year-old boy on the basis that its illustrations stimulated violence. Within the magazine's contents was the article \"Orgasm of Death\", demonstrating practices of erotic asphyxia via photographs in order to heighten sexual pleasure in men. However, \"Hustler\" placed disclaimers on the photographs of \"Do Not Attempt\" to prevent the audience from mimicking the photos. The court case ended in favoring the magazine; the court agreed that the depictions were not forcing readers to perform these erotic or dangerous activities.\n\n\"Hustler\" has had what would be considered a left-wing (liberal) editorial policy on economics, foreign policy, and social issues. Flynt and \"Hustler\" are also noted for having a more populist and working-class outlook than the more upscale-oriented \"Playboy\" and \"Penthouse\". Throughout the 1980s, Flynt used his magazine as a podium with which to launch attacks on the Reagan Administration and the Religious Right, and even published a short-lived political magazine called \"Rebel\". During the controversy surrounding Bill Clinton's impeachment, Flynt publicly announced his sympathy for Clinton, and offered cash rewards to anyone with information regarding sexual impropriety on the part of the president's critics. In 2003, Flynt ran unsuccessfully for the office of Governor of California during that state's recall election.\n\nEvery month \"Hustler\" is mailed, uninvited and for free, to all of the offices of Members of the United States Congress. This practice began at some point between 1974 and 1983, and it continues as of April 2014. In an interview, Flynt explained, \"I felt that they should be informed with what's going on in the rest of the world ... Some of them didn't appreciate it much. I haven't had any plans to quit.\"\n\nIn a 1983 parody of an advertisement for Campari, \"Hustler\" described the then-prominent fundamentalist Protestant minister Jerry Falwell having a drunken, incestuous encounter with his mother in an outhouse. Falwell sued Flynt, alleging libel and intentional infliction of emotional distress. The case was ultimately decided by the Supreme Court in Flynt's favor. The decision strengthened free speech rights in relation to parodies of public figures. \"See\" \"Hustler Magazine v. Falwell\".\n\nLFP, Inc. publishes several other magazines that use the \"Hustler\" brand:\n\n\nIn 1995, the company launched Hustler.com. Larry Flynt Productions, operates Hustler.com and a number of related sites, where it sells pictures and videos with content similar to that in its magazines. The site was targeted by Anonymous in Operation Payback in October 2010.\n\nDuring the Golden Age of Porn, and prior to getting into the movie business themselves, \"Hustler\" was one of two magazines that announced awards for adult sex films, the other being \"Adam Film World\". They were discontinued in the late 1980s.\n\nThe awards were based on fan ballots printed in the publication. In announcing its third annual awards, the magazine said, \"\"Hustler\"'s erotic-movie awards are intended to reward excellence in the erotic-film industry and thereby encourage the fast-buck makers of mediocrity to clean up their act or go out of business.\"\n\n\n"}
{"id": "11867673", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11867673", "title": "Jayapa Nayudu", "text": "Jayapa Nayudu\n\nJayapa Nayudu or Jayapa Senani was a military commander under Ganapatideva, the Kakatiya king had give some districts to jayapa nayudu to rule present [Andhra and telagana] during the medieval period from his seat in Warangal, He was major Key-roller in Kakatiya Empire. \n\nThe defeat of Velanati Chodas at the hands of Kakatiya emperor Ganapatideva (1241 CE) led to many Nayaka warriors migrating to Warangal and joining the Kakatiya army. Jayapa Nayudu, a valiant commander from Kammanadu, was made the chief of the elephant wing in the army. He was uncle of Ranirudrama Devi, Emperor Ganapatideva married Naramma and Peramma, sisters of Jayapa nayudu(Ganapatidevas Brother-in-law).\n\nJayapa was the son of Pinna Choda whose father Narappa was the governor of the estuary region of river Krishna, also known as Diviseema. Narappa had four sons Choda, Pina Choda, Bhima and Brahma. All the brothers served as commanders in the army of Velanati Choda kings.\n\nJayapa participated in the Kalinga conquest of Ganapatideva and was honoured with the title “Vairigodhuma Gharatta”. He built a temple (Ganapeswara) in the honour of Ganapatideva and made a grant of many villages to the temple (1231 CE). He built another temple (Chodeswara) in the name of his father Pinna Choda in Chebrolu (Guntur district) and made a grant of Modukuru village to meet the temple expenses. According to the Chebrolu inscription (1235 CE, April 21) he also built two-storied quarters in two rows for Devadasis (Temple dancers) in front of the temple. Jayapa must have been an accomplished master of dance because his Sanskrit treatise “Nritya Ratnavali” is an authoritative text on Indian dance.\n\nJayapa is the first person who wrote about the dances prevalent in Andhra Pradesh. Both Desi and Margi forms of dances have been included in \"Nritya Ratnavali\". It contains eight chapters. Folk dance forms like Perani, Prenkhana, Suddha Nartana, Carcari, Rasaka, Danda Rasaka, Shiva Priya, Kanduka Nartana, Bhandika Nrityam, Carana Nrityam, Chindu, Gondali and Kolatam are described. In the first chapter the author deals with discussion of the differences between Marga and desi, tandava and lasya, Natya and nritta. In the 2nd and 3rd chapters he deals with angikabhinaya, caris, Sthanakas and mandalas. In the 4th Chapter Karnas, angaharas and recakas are described. In following chapters he described the local dance forms i.e. desi nritya. In the last chapter he deals with art and practice of dance.\n\n"}
{"id": "4170691", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4170691", "title": "John Huang", "text": "John Huang\n\nJohn Huang (, born 1945) is a major figure in the 1996 United States campaign finance controversy. He worked for Lippo Bank in California and Worthen Bank in Arkansas, and as deputy assistant secretary for international economic affairs in U.S. President Bill Clinton's Commerce Department before he became a chief fundraiser for the Democratic National Committee in 1996.\n\nOn August 12, 1999, Huang pleaded guilty to a felony conspiracy charge for violating campaign finance laws and was sentenced to one year of probation. He was also ordered by U.S. District Court to pay a $10,000 fine and serve 500 hours of community service. Prosecutors said Huang was responsible for arranging about $156,000 in illegal campaign contributions from Lippo Group employees to the Democratic Party.\n\nHuang was born in 1945 at Nanping in Fujian. His father Huang Tizhai was a native from Wenzhou, Zhejiang and served the KMT. Huang and his father fled to Taiwan at the end of the Chinese Civil War before he eventually emigrated to the United States in 1969 to study for an M.B.A. at the University of Connecticut. After working as a loan officer at small banks around Washington D.C., Huang moved to Kentucky and Tennessee before becoming Vice President of Worthen Bank in Little Rock in 1984. He continued to work for Lippo at the same time.\n"}
{"id": "38084677", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38084677", "title": "KPC Ngong Forest Land Scandal", "text": "KPC Ngong Forest Land Scandal\n\nThe KPC Ngong Forest Land Scandal was a scandal that resulted in the suspension in October 2012 of Kenyan Government Minister William Ruto who was charged in court as a result.\n\nMr Ruto and four other persons faced fraud charges over the alleged sale of a piece of land in Ngong forest to Kenya Pipeline Company (KPC) for Sh272 million. The minister allegedly received Sh96 million at various intervals during the alleged transaction. In the case, Mr. Ruto and Berke Commercial Agencies, a company associated with him, Mr Joshua Kulei, a former aide of retired president Daniel Moi, Mr Sammy Mwaita (the Member of Parliament for Baringo Central Constituency) and two other firms were sued for allegedly obtaining money from KPC between 6 August and 6 September 2001.\n\nIn April 2011, Mr. Ruto was acquitted of the Sh43 million land fraud charges for lack of evidence after the prosecution failed to produce in court the then Finance Manager Hellen Njue to give her evidence on how she paid out the money. His co-accused, Mr Joshua Kulei and Mr Sammy Mwaita, were also set free.\n"}
{"id": "18736782", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18736782", "title": "Kho people", "text": "Kho people\n\nThe Kho (, ) are an Indo-Aryan ethnolinguistic group associated with the Dardistan region. They speak Khowar, which is a member of the Dardic subgroup of the Indo-Aryan language family. Many Kho people live in the Chitral District of Pakistan, while others live in Jammu and Kashmir, India, as well as in the Badakhshan region of Afghanistan.\n\nThe Kho people are likely descendents of those who arrived in the region during the Indo-Aryan migration. The Kho people formerly observed a form of ancient Hinduism and Buddhism. During the Mongol invasion of India in the 1200s, many of the northern Kho converted to Islam.\n\nHistorically the Kho people reside in the Dardistan region. As such, they are a Dardic ethnic group located primarily in South Asia. Many of the Kho people live in the Chitral District of the Pakistani province of Khyber Pakhtunkhwa and a smaller number also live in Ghizer District of Gilgit Baltistan (including the Yasin Valley, Phandar Ishkoman and Gupis). In addition, a sizeable community of Kho people are found in Jammu and Kashmir, India. They are also found in few numbers in northern Afghanistan, where the majority of them live in the northern provinces of Badakhshan. \n\nKho culture places heavy emphasis on poetry, song and dance. Kho people also have a great respect of law and order. Much of this can be attributed to Chitral being a stable kingdom for most of its history, where the rule of law and the will of the ruler came before tribal concepts such as revenge and isolationism.\n\nBecause of Chitral's location at the crossroads of Central Asia and South Asia, the Kho display a wide variety of cultures, largely depending upon their ancestral ethnic group and family history.\n\nThe Kho people speak the Khowar language, a member of the Dardic subgroup of the Indo-Aryan language family. The ethnologists and Lennart Edelberg noted, with respect to the Khowar language, that: \"Khowar, in many respects [is] the most archaic of all modern Indian languages, retaining a great part of Sanskrit case inflexion, and retaining many words in a nearly Sanskritic form.”\n\nKhowar is spoken by about 247,000 Kho people in northern Pakistan, and 19,200 Kho people in northern India. Some of the Kho people use Urdu as a second language.\n\nFolk singers and reed instrument players have a special respect in the Kho society and are featured in their festivities. The most common instruments are Surnai Shehnai, Sitar, and reed instruments. The Kho sitar is a popular musical instrument in Chitral. It is made out of mulberry wood with five steel strings arranged in three courses, the outer ones have double strings, tuned in unison, while the inner course is single. Popular music of the area includes:\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "24730559", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24730559", "title": "Languages of Guinea", "text": "Languages of Guinea\n\nThe Republic of Guinea is a multilingual country, with over 40 languages spoken. The official language is French, which was inherited from colonial rule. \n\nSeveral indigenous languages have been given the status of national languages: Fula (or Pular); Malinké (or Maninka); Susu; Kissi; Kpelle (known in French as Guerzé) and Toma.\n\nFrench is the language of state and of official institutions. It is used by 15 to 25% of the population. At the end of the Ahmed Sékou Touré regime, French was the only language used in business and schools.\n\nFula (32%) is mostly spoken in Middle Guinea, where the major city is Labé.\nMalinké (30%) is mostly spoken in Upper Guinea, where Kankan is the major city.\nSusu (20%) is mostly spoken in Guinée maritime, where the capital is Conakry.\n\nGuerzé (6.2%), Kissi (4.7%) and Toma (2.8%) are spoken in Guinée Forestière. More specifically, Guerzé is spoken in Nzérékoré and Yomou. Kissi is spoken in Guéckédou and Kissidougou. Kono is a language used in the south of Guinea, mostly in Lola.\n\nAccording to a report by Alpha Mamadou Diallo, the \"first language\" of inhabitants of the city of Conakry in decreasing order was: Susu 42%, Pular (Fula) 20%, Maninka(with koniaka) 19%, Kissi 4%, Guerzé 4%, French 2% and Toma 2%.\n"}
{"id": "10803306", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10803306", "title": "List of charitable foundations", "text": "List of charitable foundations\n\nThis is a list of notable charitable foundations.\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "45329986", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45329986", "title": "Margaret Polson Murray", "text": "Margaret Polson Murray\n\nMargaret Smith Polson (\"née\" Murray; Paisley July 20, 1865 – January 27, 1927 Montreal), better known as Margaret Polson Murray, was a Canadian social reformer, magazine editor and founder of the Imperial Order Daughters of the Empire.\n\n"}
{"id": "5767509", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5767509", "title": "Marshall Kirk", "text": "Marshall Kirk\n\nMarshall Kenneth Kirk (December 8, 1957 – ) was a New England Historic Genealogical Society librarian, and a noted writer and a researcher in neuropsychiatry. He is, however, best known as one of the co-authors of \"After the Ball: How America Will Conquer Its Fear and Hatred of Gays in the '90s\", a strategy for the LGBT movement in the 1990s.\n\nKirk was born in Norway, Maine, the third child of Roger Marchant and Kathleen Marie (Murphy) Kirk, and was raised in Mechanic Falls. Marshall had two brothers, Roger and Douglas, and a sister, Kathy. Growing up Kirk took interest in weather; his brothers report that at age 10 his fellow townsmen in Mechanic Falls, Maine, preferred his forecasts to anything on television. He was valedictorian of his high school class and graduated \"magna cum laude\" from Harvard University in 1980, majoring in psychology, and writing his honors thesis on the testing of gifted children.\n\nHis interest in his own colonial New England forebears broadened into the study of pre-American ancestry. He became internationally known as one of the three or four major American authorities on medieval and ancient genealogy (Greece, Rome, Egypt, Persia, Armenia, the Merovingians and Carolingians).\n\nWriting sometimes under his own name and at other times under the pseudonym \"Kenneth W. Kirkpatrick\", he authored or co-authored several articles in the NEGHS Register and also wrote for the New Hampshire Genealogical Record, Vermont Genealogist and \"The Island\" Magazine. His accumulation of arguments to \"build a case\" for speculative identifications in the near English ancestry of New England immigrants was widely perceived as brilliant, and he published such pieces on the five Winslow brothers and Thomas Bradbury in the NEGHS Register (the second article published 2007) and on John Cotton in the last 1999 issue of \"The New Hampshire Genealogical Record\".\n\nHis research on Gov. Thomas Dudley was used by both Doug Richardson in \"Plantagenet Ancestry\" and in \"The Royal Descents of 600 Immigrants\" (RD600) by Gary Boyd Roberts. Marshall was especially pleased by the prospect of an Edward III descent through Katherine Deighton (Dudley's second wife), Dennis and Stradling, and after publication of an article in \"Foundations\" attempting to refute it, was strong in its defense.\n\nMarshall also contributed to the fourth edition (1999) of the \"Genealogist’s Handbook for New England Research\", the CD-ROM edition of Clarence A. Torrey’s \"New England Marriages Prior to 1700\", and John A. Schutz, \"Legislators of the Massachusetts General Court, 1691–1780: A Biographical Dictionary\" (1997).\n\nHe was associate editor of \"The Mayflower Descendant\" from 2002 to 2003.\n\nIn 1987 Kirk partnered with Hunter Madsen (writing under the pen-name \"Erastes Pill\") to write an essay, \"The Overhauling of Straight America\", which was published in \"Guide\" magazine. They argued that gays must portray themselves in a positive way to straight America, and that the main aim of making homosexuality acceptable could be achieved by getting Americans \"to think that it is just another thing, with a shrug of their shoulders\". Then \"your battle for legal and social rights is virtually won\". The pair developed their argument in the 1989 book \"After the Ball: How America Will Conquer Its Fear and Hatred of Gays in the ’90s\". The book outlined a public relations strategy for the LGBT movement. After its publication Kirk appeared in the pages of \"Newsweek\", \"Time\" and \"The Washington Post\".\n\nThe book is often critically described by social conservatives as important to the success of the LGBT Movement in the 90's and as part of an alleged \"homosexual agenda\". The conservative Christian group Focus on the Family claim that,\n\nIt is an agenda that they basically set in the late 1980s, in a book called 'After the Ball,' where they laid out a six-point plan for how they could transform the beliefs of ordinary Americans with regard to homosexual behavior — in a decade-long time frame... They admit it privately, but they will not say that publicly. In their private publications, homosexual activists make it very clear that there is an agenda. The six-point agenda that they laid out in 1989 was explicit: Talk about gays and gayness as loudly and as often as possible... Portray gays as victims, not as aggressive challengers... Give homosexual protectors a just cause... Make gays look good... Make the victimizers look bad... Get funds from corporate America.\n\nKirk suffered from severe migraine headaches that were preceded by a strong desire to talk in a rapid monologue. He found that if he gave into these \"babbling fits\", the headache would be alleviated. He had other medical problems and suffered from bouts of depression that required electroconvulsive therapy (ECT) on three occasions. Because of the negative effects on his memory, he considered ECT to be the last alternative to avoid death. In part due to this medical history, his knowledge of pharmacology was usually greater than that of anyone who treated him. When he died, he was found alone in his apartment by two friends. The cause of death has never been publicly revealed.\n\n"}
{"id": "23998315", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23998315", "title": "Miguel Méndez (legal scholar)", "text": "Miguel Méndez (legal scholar)\n\nMiguel A. Méndez (c. 1943 – May 25, 2017) was a professor of law at the University of California, Davis, School of Law (King Hall). Prior to joining the Davis faculty, Professor Méndez was the Adelbert H. Sweet Professor of Law at Stanford University Law School, where he was on the law faculty from 1977 to 2009. Before starting his teaching career, he served as a legislative assistant to U.S. Senator Alan Cranston (D-CA), staff attorney with the Mexican American Legal Defense and Education Fund, deputy director of California Rural Legal Assistance, and attorney with Office of the Public Defender of Monterey County.\n\nHe received an A.B. in international affairs and Latin American studies from George Washington University in 1965 and a J.D. from George Washington University Law School in 1968. Méndez died on May 25, 2017 at his home in San Carlos. He was survived by two daughters, Arabela and Gabriela.\n"}
{"id": "13602934", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13602934", "title": "Mohammad Hanif Atmar", "text": "Mohammad Hanif Atmar\n\nMohammad Hanif Atmar (Pashto: محمد حنیف اتمر; born 1968) was the Interior Minister of Afghanistan. He was removed from MOI by Hamid Karzai in the wake of attacks on the June 2010 Afghan Peace Jirga. Before that he worked with several international humanitarian organizations and served as Minister of Rural Rehabilitation and Development and Minister of Education. In 2011, he is part of the Right and Justice party. During his time in office, he has visited several countries to get funding to stabilize Afghanistan. Atmar was serving as National Security Advisor to Ashraf Ghani the President of Afghanistan. He resigned from his post as there was disagreement with Ghani on certain issues. In late 2018, Atmar announced his candidacy for the April 2019 presidential elections, indicating he firmly believes a peace deal with the Taliban is possible.\nAtmar was born in 1968 as son of Mohammad Asef Atmar in Laghman Province of Afghanistan. He is an ethnic Pashtun. As a young adult, he worked for the KHAD, an Afghan security and intelligence agency with strong ties to the Soviet KGB, including with a special-operations unit. During the Soviet-Afghan War he fought against Mujahids, and lost a leg defending Jalalabad in 1987. Atmar left for the United Kingdom after the fall of Kabul.\n\nIn the UK he earned two degrees at the University of York: a diploma in Information Technology and Computers, and an M.A. in Public Policy, International Relations and Post-war Reconstruction studies, which he studied for from 1996 to 1997. He speaks fluent Pashto, Dari, English, and Urdu. In 1992 Atmar began advising on Afghanistan and Pakistan for humanitarian agencies, which he would continue for two years. Following that he went to the Norwegian Church Aid, where he served as Program Manager for six years until 2001. That same year he was hired as the Deputy Director General of the International Rescue Committee for Afghanistan, but after the September 11th attacks, the 2001 U.S. invasion of Afghanistan, and the Bonn Agreement creating an Afghan Transitional Authority under Hamid Karzai, Atmar left to join the new government.\n\nIn 2002, Atmar was invited to join the Transitional Government as the Minister of Rural Rehabilitation & Development and was confirmed with the same portfolio in the cabinet of the newly elected President Karzai in December 2004. As one of the youngest members of cabinet and a technocrat, he directed his energies into transforming a dysfunctional and non-descript ministry into one of national significance that reached into every province of the country, overseeing an annual budget of nearly 500 million dollars at the end of his four-year tenure.\n\nErcan Murat, Country Director for UNDP in Afghanistan described Atmar in 2004 as a human development champion. As head of a ministry that was considered a key consumer of international funds, his task entailed providing food security for the rural population, safe drinking water, alternatives for the drug-economy and building the necessary infrastructure for the economy in rural areas to develop.\n\nIn May 2006, Atmar was sworn in as the Minister of Education after being approved by an overwhelming majority of the National Assembly. As one of the very few who has served in successive cabinets under President Karzai, he went equipped with valuable institutional experience and memory to take on challenge of making available one of the most basic rights denied to a generation of Afghans - education. \n\nAs a member of the Presidential Oversight Committee, Atmar provides valuable advice and input into the development of the Afghanistan National Development Strategy and the represents government on the Joint Monitoring and Coordination Board that tracks the implementation of the Afghanistan Compact.\n\nIn October 2008, Atmar was sworn in as the Minister of Interior after being approved by a majority of the National Assembly.\n\nWhen the Truth and Justice party was founded in 2011, he was a member of the party.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "43316934", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43316934", "title": "Mr. Asia Contest", "text": "Mr. Asia Contest\n\nMr. Asia (亞洲先生競選), is a male beauty pageant contest run by Mr. Asia contest Organization based in Hong Kong\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1169505", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1169505", "title": "Northern Sami", "text": "Northern Sami\n\nNorthern or North Sami (; disapproved exonym Lappish or Lapp), sometimes also simply referred to as Sami, is the most widely spoken of all Sami languages. The area where Northern Sami is spoken covers the northern parts of Norway, Sweden and Finland. The number of Northern Sami speakers is estimated to be somewhere between 15,000 and 25,000. About 2,000 of these live in Finland and between 5,000 and 6,000 in Sweden.\n\nAmong the first printed Sami texts is \"Svenske och Lappeske ABC Book\" (\"Swedish and Lappish ABC book\"), written in Swedish and what is likely a form of Northern Sami. It was published in two editions in 1638 and 1640 and includes 30 pages of prayers and confessions of Protestant faith. It has been described as the first book \"with a regular Sami language form\".\n\nNorthern Sami was first described by Knud Leem (\"En lappisk Grammatica efter den Dialect, som bruges af Field-Lapperne udi Porsanger-Fiorden\") in 1748 and in dictionaries in 1752 and 1768. One of Leem's fellow grammaticians, who had also assisted him, was Anders Porsanger, himself Sami and in fact the first Sami to receive higher education, who studied at the Trondheim Cathedral School and other schools, but who was unable to publish his work on Sami due to racist attitudes at the time. The majority of his work has disappeared.\n\nThe mass mobilization during the Alta controversy as well as a more tolerant political environment caused a change to the Norwegian policy of assimilation during the last decades of the twentieth century.\nIn Norway, Northern Sami is currently an official language of two counties (Finnmark and Troms) and six municipalities (Kautokeino, Karasjok, Nesseby, Tana, Porsanger and Gáivuotna (Kåfjord)). Sami born before 1977 have never learned to write Sami according to the currently used orthography in school, so it is only in recent years that there have been Sami capable of writing their own language for various administrative positions.\n\nThe consonant inventory of Northern Sami is large, contrasting voicing for many consonants. Some analyses of Northern Sami phonology may include preaspirated stops and affricates (, , , , ) and pre-stopped or pre-glottalised nasals (voiceless , , , and voiced , , , ). However, these can be treated as clusters for the purpose of phonology, since they are clearly composed of two segments and only the first of these lengthens in quantity 3. The terms \"preaspirated\" and \"pre-stopped\" will be used in this article to describe these combinations for convenience.\n\nNotes:\n\nNot all Northern Sami dialects have identical consonant inventories. Some consonants are absent from some dialects, while others are distributed differently.\n\n\nConsonants, including clusters, that occur after a stressed syllable can occur in multiple distinctive length types, or quantities. These are conventionally labelled quantity 1, 2 and 3 or Q1, Q2 and Q3 for short. The consonants of a word alternate in a process known as consonant gradation, where consonants appear in different quantities depending on the specific grammatical form. Normally, one of the possibilities is named the \"strong grade\", while the other is named \"weak grade\". The consonants of a weak grade are normally quantity 1 or 2, while the consonants of a strong grade are normally quantity 2 or 3.\n\n\nThroughout this article and related articles, consonants that are part of different syllables are written with two consonant letters in IPA, while the lengthening of consonants in quantity 3 is indicated with an IPA length mark ().\n\nNot all consonants can occur in every quantity type. The following limitations exist:\n\nWhen a consonant can occur in all three quantities, quantity 3 is termed \"overlong\".\n\nIn quantity 3, if the syllable coda consists of only , or , the additional length of this consonant is realised phonetically as an epenthetic vowel. This vowel assimilates to the quality of the surrounding vowels:\nThis does not occur if the second consonant is a dental/alveolar stop, e.g. \"gielda\" , phonetically , or \"sálti\" , phonetically .\n\nNorthern Sami possesses the following vowels:\n\nClosing diphthongs such as \"ái\" also exist, but these are phonologically composed of a vowel plus one of the semivowels or . The semivowels still behave as consonants in clusters.\n\nNot all of these vowel phonemes are equally prevalent; some occur generally while others occur only in specific contexts as the result of sound changes. The following rules apply for stressed syllables:\n\nThe distribution in post-stressed syllables (unstressed syllables following a stressed one) is more restricted:\n\nIn a second unstressed syllable (one that follows another unstressed syllable), no long vowels occur and and are the only vowels that occur frequently.\n\nThe standard orthography of Northern Sami distinguishes vowel length in the case of versus , although this is primarily on an etymological basis. Not all instances of are phonemically long, due to both stressed and unstressed vowel shortening. Some dialects also have lengthening of under certain circumstances. Nonetheless, a default length can be assumed for these two letters. For the remaining vowels, vowel length is not indicated in the standard orthography. In reference works, macrons can be placed above long vowels that occur in a position where they can be short. Length of and in a post-stressed syllable is assumed, and not indicated, except in the combinations and , where these letters can also indicate short vowels.\n\nThe Eastern Finnmark dialects possess additional contrasts that other dialects of Northern Sami do not:\n\nSome Torne dialects have and instead of stressed and (from diphthong simplification) as well as unstressed and .\n\nDiphthong simplification, also known as umlaut, is a process whereby a diphthong loses its second component and becomes a long monophthong:\n\nHistorically, diphthong simplification was caused by a short \"i\" or \"u\" in the following syllable, the same conditioning that still exists in neighbouring Lule Sami. In Northern Sami, these vowels have now become short and , except when followed by , so simplification can occur when the next syllable contains or , or the sequences or .\n\nThe process is complicated by two factors. Firstly, vowel length is not indicated in the spelling, so it's not possible to tell whether the first vowel in \"ui\" is short or long. It is short in the illative singular and thus causes simplification (\"viessu\" \"house\" → \"vīssui\" \"into the house\"), but it is long in the plural forms and does not cause any simplification (\"viessūide\" \"into the houses\"). A second complicating factor is that under some circumstances, original long \"i\" and \"u\" in unstressed syllables have shortened to \"e\" and \"o\" (denoted in grammars and dictionaries with an underdot \"ẹ\" and \"ọ\" to distinguish them). These shortened vowels do not cause simplification, but are indistinguishable from the older originally short vowels that do trigger it. These cases must simply be memorised.\n\nShortening of long vowels in unstressed syllables occurs irregularly. It commonly occurs in the first element of a compound word, in a fourth syllable, and in various other unpredictable circumstances. When shortened, and are lowered to and , except before . Shortened vowels are denoted here, and in other reference works, with an underdot: \"ạ\", \"ẹ\", \"ọ\", to distinguish them from originally-short vowels.\n\nWhen a long vowel or diphthong occurs in the stressed syllable before the shortened vowel, it becomes half-long/rising.\n\nWhen the consonant preceding the shortened vowel is quantity 3, any lengthened elements are shortened so that it becomes quantity 2. However, the resulting consonant is not necessarily the weak-grade equivalent of that consonant. If the consonant was previously affected by consonant lengthening (below), this process shortens it again.\n\n\nIn the Eastern Finnmark dialects, long vowels as well as diphthongs are shortened before a quantity 3 consonant. This is phonemic due to the loss of length in quantity 3 in these dialects.\n\nOutside Eastern Finnmark, long is only shortened before a long preaspirate, not before any other consonants. The shortening of diphthongs remains allophonic due to the preservation of quantity 3 length, but the shortening of long vowels that result from diphthong simplification is phonemic.\n\nIn the Eastern Finnmark dialects, short vowels are lengthened when they occur before a quantity 1 or 2 consonant. Combined with the preceding change, vowel length in stressed syllables becomes conditioned entirely by the following consonant quantity. Moreover, because the coda lengthening in quantity 3 is lost in these dialects, vowel length becomes the only means for distinguishing quantities 3 and 2 in many cases.\n\n\nIn the Western Finnmark dialects, a short /a/ in a post-stressed syllable is lengthened to /aː/ if the preceding consonants are quantity 1 or 2, and the preceding syllable contains a short vowel. Compare the Eastern Finnmark pronunciations of these words under \"stressed vowel lengthening\".\n\n\nA long that originates from this process does \"not\" trigger consonant lengthening.\n\nIn dialects outside Eastern Finnmark, in quantity 2, the last coda consonant is lengthened if the following vowel is long, and the preceding vowel is a short monophthong. Since the coda now contains a long consonant, it is considered as quantity 3, but the lengthening is mostly allophonic and is not indicated orthographically. It is phonemic in the Western Finnmark dialects when the following vowel is , because lengthening is triggered by an original long but not by an original short that was lengthened (as described above).\n\nThe new consonant may coincide with its Q3 consonant gradation counterpart, effectively making a weak grade strong, or it may still differ in other ways. In particular, no change is made to syllable division, so that in case of Q2 consonants with a doubled final consonant, it is actually the first of this pair that lengthens, making it overlong.\n\n\nLengthening also occurs if the preceding vowel is a close diphthong or . In this case, the diphthong also shortens before the new quantity 3 consonant.\n\nStress is generally not phonemic in Northern Sami; the first syllable of a word always carries primary stress. Like most Sami languages, Northern Sami follows a pattern of alternating (trochaic) stress, in which each odd-numbered syllable after the first is secondarily stressed and even-numbered syllables are unstressed. The last syllable of a word is never stressed, unless the word has only one syllable.\n\nConsequently, words can follow three possible patterns:\nThis gives the following pattern, which can be extended indefinitely in theory. S indicates stress, _ indicates no stress:\n\nThe number of syllables, and the resulting stress pattern, is important for grammatical reasons. Words with stems having an even number of syllables from the last inflect differently from words with stems having an odd number of syllables. This is detailed further in the grammar section.\n\nIn compound words, which consist of several distinct word roots, each word retains its own stress pattern, potentially breaking from the normal trochaic pattern. If the first element of a compound has an odd number of syllables, then there will be a sequence of two unstressed syllables followed by a stressed one, which does not occur in non-compound words. In some cases, the first element of a compound has only one syllable, resulting in two adjacent stressed syllables. Hence, stress is lexically significant in that it can distinguish compounds from non-compounds.\n\nRecent loanwords generally keep the stress of the language they were borrowed from, assigning secondary stress to the syllable that was stressed in the original word. The normal trochaic pattern can also be broken in this case, but words will still be made to fit into the even or odd inflection patterns. Words with penultimate stress ending in a consonant will follow the odd inflection:\n\nWords with antepenultimate or earlier stress will have the stress modified, as this is not allowed in Northern Sami:\n\nFinal stress is not allowed, so if the original word has final stress, an extra dummy syllable (generally \"a\") is added in Northern Sami to avoid this.\n\nAs a result of retaining the original stress pattern, some loanwords have sequences of three unstressed syllables, which don't occur in any other environment:\n\nConjunctions, postpositions, particles, and monosyllabic pronouns tend to be unstressed altogether, and therefore fall outside the above rules.\n\nSammallahti divides Northern Sami dialects as follows:\n\nThe written language is primarily based on the western Finnmark dialects, with some elements from the eastern Finnmark dialects.\n\nFeatures of the western Finnmark dialects are:\n\nThe eastern Finnmark dialects have the following characteristics:\n\n\n\n\nNorthern Sami has a long orthographic history, which has had no fewer than 9 Latin alphabets.\n\nThe roots of the current orthography for Northern Sami were laid by Rasmus Rask who, after discussions with Nils Vibe Stockfleth, published \"Ræsonneret lappisk sproglære efter den sprogart, som bruges af fjældlapperne i Porsangerfjorden i Finmarken. En omarbejdelse af Prof. Knud Leems Lappiske grammatica\" in 1832. Rask opted for a phonemic orthographic system. All of the orthographies that have been used for Northern Sami trace their roots back to Rask's system, unlike the orthographies used for Lule and Southern Sami, which are mainly based on the orthographical conventions of Swedish and Norwegian. Following in the tradition of Rask meant that diacritics were used with some consonants (č, đ, ŋ, š, ŧ and ž), which caused data-processing problems before Unicode was introduced. Both Stockfleth and J. A. Friis went on to publish grammar books and dictionaries for Sami. It can be said that Northern Sami was better described than Norwegian was before Ivar Aasen published his grammar on Norwegian.\n\nNorthern Sami was and is used in three countries, each of which used its own orthography for years. Friis' orthography was used when work on translating the Bible into Northern Sami commenced, in the first Sami newspaper called \"Saǥai Muittalægje\", and in the Finnemisjonen's own newspaper \"Nuorttanaste\". The groundwork for Northern Sami lexicography was laid by Konrad Nielsen who used an orthography of his own creation in his dictionary \"Lappisk ordbok\". Starting in 1948, the orthographies used in Norway and Sweden were combined into a single \"Bergsland-Ruong orthography\". It was not greatly used in Norway. In 1979, an official orthography for Northern Sami was adopted for use in Norway, Sweden and Finland.\n\nThus, until the official orthography currently in use was adopted in 1979, each country had its own, slightly different standard, so it is quite possible to come across older books that are difficult to understand for people unacquainted with the orthography:\n\nThe first sentence is from Antti Outakoski's \"Samekiela kiellaoahpa\" from 1950; the second one is how it would be written according to the current orthography.\n\nThe most recent alphabet was approved in 1979 and last modified in 1985:\n\nWhen typing, if there is no way of entering the letters particular to Northern Sami (Áá Čč Đđ Ŋŋ Šš Ŧŧ Žž) correctly, an acute accent is sometimes placed over the corresponding Latin letter as a substitute. These substitutions are still found in books printed after the common orthography was adopted due to system limitations when typing.\n\nSome additional marks are used in dictionaries, grammars and other reference works, including in this article. They are not used in normal writing. The following are used in Pekka Sammallahti's \"Sámi-suoma sátnegirji\":\n\nNorthern Sami orthography includes many combinations of multiple letters. In most cases, a double consonant letter corresponds to a doubled consonant phoneme, e.g. \"mm\" stands for . Overlong (quantity 3) consonants are not distinguished from regular double consonants, but are commonly denoted with a vertical line between the two consonant letters (, , etc.) in reference works.\n\nCombinations of different consonant letters stand for their equivalent individual phonemes, as described by the pronunciations of the individual letters, above. The last consonant in a sequence may be doubled. This indicates that the consonant cluster is quantity 2, while a cluster with an undoubled last consonant is generally quantity 3. It often also indicates a doubling of the corresponding consonant phoneme, but not if the preceding consonant is voiceless.\n\nThe following details combinations of multiple letters which are exceptions to the general pronunciation rules of each letter.\n\nThe diphthongs, as may be expected, are written using a combination of two letters. Length is not indicated, nor is the distinction between normal and rising diphthongs. This distinction can be inferred by the presence of and in the next syllable (which must always be shortened vowels when following a diphthong), and in reference works by the presence of vowels with an underdot in the next syllable.\n\nThe combinations , and indicate , and respectively. The first letter is doubled to indicate longer versions, and a vertical line is then used for overlong .\n\nIn the case of , there are two possible interpretations: as a single quantity 2 consonant , or as a quantity 3 consonant cluster (e.g. ), although the latter is rare. These two cases are distinguished by their behaviour in consonant gradation. In the first case, appears in the strong grade while appears in the weak grade, and these represent overlong and long respectively. In the second case, appears in the strong grade while appears in the weak grade, representing the clusters and respectively.\n\nPreaspiration is indicated with a preceding . Long preaspiration is indicated by doubling the second letter. This is exactly the opposite of how normal clusters are written.\n\nVoiceless sonorants are also indicated by a preceding , but they have three lengths. Overlong length is indicated by a vertical line in reference works, as with other sonorants.\n\nPre-stopped nasal consonants (Q2) are indicated by a preceding letter for a voiceless stop. Voiced pre-stopped nasals (Q3) are written with a voiced stop in place of the voiceless one.\n\nWith just a single consonant between syllables, the hyphen goes before that consonant.\n\nIf a word contains a double consonant letter, the hyphen is always placed between those two letters. The combination \"ij\", when preceded by a vowel, counts as a double consonant and thus gets a hyphen in between.\n\nWith other combinations of two consonants, the hyphen goes between those. Again, if \"i\" counts as a consonant, it goes between that and the next one.\n\nThere are a few exceptions where the hyphen goes before all consonants.\n\nIn compound words, a hyphen always goes between two parts of a compound.\n\nNorthern Sami is an agglutinative, highly inflected language that shares many grammatical features with the other Uralic languages. Sami has also developed considerably into the direction of fusional and inflected morphology, much like Estonian to which it is distantly related. Therefore, morphemes are marked not only by suffixes but also by morphophonological modifications to the root. Of the various morphophonological alterations, the most important and complex is the system of consonant gradation.\n\nConsonant gradation is a pattern of alternations between pairs of consonants that appears in the inflection of words. The system of consonant gradation in Northern Sami is complex, especially compared to that found in the Finnic languages. A word stem can appear in two \"grades\": the strong grade and the weak grade. A given word can alternate either between quantity 3 in the strong grade and quantity 2 in the weak grade, or between quantity 2 in the strong grade and quantity 1 in the weak grade. Historically, the weak grade appeared when the syllable following the consonant was closed (ended in a consonant), but the loss of certain vowels or consonants have obscured this in Northern Sami and it is now a more-or-less opaque process.\n\nIn verbs, some nouns, and in some processes of word derivation, a Q2 strong grade can become \"extra strong\" Q3, alternating in all three quantities. This is caused by the historical loss of a consonant (often /j/ or /s/) between the second and third syllable, which triggered compensatory lengthening on the gradating consonant.\n\nAlternations between quantities 3 and 2 are either consonant clusters or sequences of two identical consonants. In the strong grade, the first consonant forms the coda of the preceding syllable, and the remaining consonants form the onset of the following syllable. In the weak grade, only the last consonant belongs to the onset of the next syllable, and the remaining consonants belong to the coda of the preceding syllable. Thus, when there are three or more consonants, the syllable division changes between the grades. In addition, the strong grade by default has a lengthened consonant in the coda, while this lengthening is generally absent in the weak grade. However, this lengthening is subject to the modifying effects of consonant lengthening and unstressed vowel shortening, which can in some occasions level the length distinctions, so that length not an absolute indicator of grade (though it is of \"quantity\"). In Eastern Finnmark, no lengthening is found at all, instead of length the preceding vowel is short, while the vowel becomes long when the length would be absent.\n\nDoubling of the last consonant is another distinguishing feature of the weak grade, although it only occurs if the preceding consonant is voiced. The additional consonant is always assigned to the coda (the double consonant is split between syllables), so that it obligatorily shifts the syllable boundary relative to the strong grade:\nConsonant lengthening can then, in turn, lengthen the first of this pair again (the one in the coda). In writing, the last consonant is doubled in the weak grade, even if the preceding consonant is voiceless, simply to distinguish the two grades visually:\n\nSequences of two identical consonants gradate in the same way, with lengthening of the first consonant in the strong grade (again, subject to modification, and not in Eastern Finnmark), but without any doubling of the last consonant in the weak grade. For most pairs of consonants, no difference is made between the grades orthographically, both are written with a double consonant. In reference works, the special mark ˈ is placed between the consonants to indicate the strong grade.\n\nSome cases are indicated specially in the orthography, but behave as expected from a phonological point of view:\n\nIn some clusters, there is an alternation in the quality of the first consonant between the two grades.\n\nAlternations between 2 and 1 are less predictable than alternations between quantities 3 and 2. The weak grade is always represented by a single consonant, which forms the onset of the next syllable, and the preceding syllable has no coda. The corresponding strong grade additionally has a single consonant in the coda, which may the same as the following onset consonant or different. The coda consonant in the strong grade may undergo consonant lengthening to receive additional length.\n\nA double consonant in the strong grade always alternates with a single consonant in the weak grade. This occurs with all nasals, sonorants and fricatives (except /ʎ/ and /j/). Orthographically, this is represented as a double versus a single consonant letter.\n\nA cluster of short /h/ and a voiceless consonant (preaspirated) in the strong grade alternates with a single voiced consonant in the weak grade.\n\nA cluster of a voiceless pre-stopped nasal in the strong grade drops the stop in the weak grade. In Sea Sami, the strong grade has a double nasal, without the stop.\n\nDouble /cc/ alternates with /j/.\n\nOnly a limited number of consonants are allowed at the end of a word. Therefore, consonants will be modified when they come to stand word-finally:\n\nCertain inflectional endings and derivational suffixes trigger changes in the first unstressed (post-stressed) vowel of the stem. These changes are generally the result of umlaut effects in Proto-Samic. The following changes may be noted. An empty table cell means there is no change, \"S\" indicates diphthong simplification.\n\nThere are some vowel alternations that don't have a clear rule or cause. For example, the change of \"a\" to \"á\" in the present tense third-person singular of verbs is unexpected and must simply be taken as-is. Likewise, the appearance of \"u\" or \"o\" in some verb imperative forms is not based on any rule, but is an inherent part of the ending.\n\nAll inflected words, whether nouns, adjectives or verbs, can be divided into three main inflectional classes. The division is based on whether there is an even or odd number of syllables from the last stressed syllable to the end of the word.\n\nFor nouns and adjectives, the stem is taken from the accusative/genitive singular rather than the nominative, as the latter often drops the final vowel and sometimes also the preceding consonant. For verbs, the infinitive is used to determine the stem, by removing the infinitive ending \"-t\".\n\nWords with even and contracted inflection can be divided further, based on the final vowel of the stem. For even-inflected words, this vowel is most commonly \"a\", \"i\" or \"u\", while for contracted words it is mostly \"á\", \"e\" or \"o\". Words with odd inflection are not differentiated by stem-final vowel.\n\nNouns inflect in singular (\"ovttaidlohku\") and plural (\"máŋggaidlohku\"), and also in 7 cases. The following table shows the general endings; the actual forms can differ based on consonant gradation and the inflection type of the word.\n\nThe accusative and genitive are always identical. There is no singular/plural distinction in the essive, so that for example \"mánnán\" is interpreted as either \"as a child\" or \"as children\".\n\nNouns with even inflection have consonant gradation of the last consonant in the stem. The strong grade appears in the nominative, illative and essive singular, while the weak grade appears in the remaining forms.\n\nThe most common of this type are the nouns with a stem ending in \"-a\", \"-i\" or slightly rarer \"-u\".\n\nEven-syllable nouns with a stem ending in \"-á\", \"-e\" or \"-o\" also exist, but are much rarer.\n\nEven-syllable nouns with four or more syllables sometimes drop the final vowel in the nominative singular. Consequently, simplification of the final consonant occurs. The stem of these nouns always ends in \"-a\".\n\nNouns with odd inflection have consonant gradation. The weak grade appears in the nominative and essive singular, while the strong grade appears in the remaining forms. Some nouns also have other alternations in the stem of the strong grade, such as changes of \"i\" to \"á\", \"u\" to \"o\", or addition of a consonant.\n\nNouns with contracted inflection have consonant gradation. The pattern follows that of odd-inflection nouns, with the weak grade in the nominative and essive singular, and the strong grade in the remainder. If the weak grade is level 1, the strong grade will be level 3. The final syllable is generally altered along with the gradation as well.\n\nThe possessive suffixes are similar in meaning to the English personal possessive determiners \"my\", \"your\", \"their\" and so on. There are 9 possessive suffixes: one for each person in singular, dual and plural. Possessive suffixes attach to the end of a noun, after the case ending. Thus, for example, \"ruovttus\" \"in a house\" may become \"ruovttustan\" \"in my house\".\n\nLike noun case endings, the suffixes have different forms depending on whether they are attached to a stem with an even or odd number of syllables, and (in the case of even-syllable stems) depending on the last vowel of the stem. The following table shows the suffixes:\n\nThe suffixes attach to a combination of noun plus case ending, so the stem that the suffix is attached to may not be the stem of the noun. Rather, a new \"possessive stem\" is formed from the noun with its case ending included. This stem is not always identical to the ending of the noun on its own; some case endings undergo modifications or the addition of a final vowel. Thus, certain cases may have possessive stems that inherently end in \"-a\", other cases may have \"-i\", but this is only significant if the combination has an even number of syllables.\n\nThe following table shows the possessive stems for each case, for four of the nouns whose inflection was given above. If the stem ends in a vowel, it is even and the suffixes with the matching vowel are used. If the stem ends in a consonant, it is odd and the odd endings are used.\n\nIn the comitative plural, the possessive suffix attaches between the possessive stem and the final \"-guin\".\n\nAs can be seen in the table, for the nominative, accusative and genitive singular cases, the possessive stem is identical to the noun stem. The stem also undergoes consonant gradation in the accusative and genitive singular forms, and endings beginning with \"e\" or \"o\" also trigger diphthong simplification. The noun is in the strong grade with the first-person possessive suffixes, and in the weak grade with the second- and third-person possessives.\n\nThe possessive forms of \"ruoktu\" are:\n\nAdjectives inflect the same as nouns do, and have the same cases and inflection types.\n\nAdjectives also have an additional form, the attributive form (\"attribuhttahápmi\"). This form is used when the adjective is used attributively, where it precedes the noun. The attributive does not receive any endings, so it does not have cases or number. Its formation is also unpredictable: for some adjectives, it's formed from the nominative singular by adding an extra ending of some kind to the stem, while for others the attributive is formed by \"removing\" part of the stem. It may also be identical to the nominative singular. Some examples:\n\nNot all adjectives have an attributive form. For example, the frequently-used adjective \"buorre\" \"good\" has only case forms. When there is no attributive form, this doesn't mean it can't be used attributively. Instead, the case and number of the adjective matches that of the noun it is an attribute of (as in for example Finnish).\n\nThe personal pronouns inflect irregularly, and also have a third number, the dual (\"guvttiidlohku\"). The dual is used to refer to exactly two people. The following table shows the forms.\n\nThe five demonstrative determiners/pronouns inflect somewhat irregularly as well. The nominative singular and nominative plural are identical, and some other cases have endings not found in nouns.\n\nWhen these words modify a noun rather than standing alone, the demonstrative is in the same case as the noun, with the following exceptions:\n\nThe interrogative/relative pronouns/determiners \"gii\" \"who\" and \"mii\" \"what\" are likewise irregular.\n\nIn the accusative singular of \"mii\", there are two possible forms. The \"regular\" form \"man\" is used when there is an implication of a choice from a limited number of options. The form \"máid\" has no such implication.\n\nThese two pronouns, as well as other interrogatives (which inflect regularly) can act as determiners and modify nouns. The rules for which case to use are the same as for the demonstrative. The form \"máid\" is followed by a noun in the accusative plural form.\n\nThe reflexive pronoun is \"ieš\" (dual and plural \"ieža\"), meaning \"myself\", \"yourself\", \"himself\", \"herself\" and so on. In its base form, the pronoun occurs only in the nominative case and is never used on its own; it always occurs next to the subject of the sentence, where it acts as an adverb to strengthen it. Compare for example sentences such as \"I myself have never seen it.\".\n\nThe other cases can occur by themselves, but only in the singular, and are always used in combination with a possessive suffix that matches the subject of the sentence (i.e. always \"I see myself\", never \"I see himself\"). These forms are irregular as well as suppletive: the illative and locative forms derive from completely different roots. There are also several alternative stems.\n\nThe conjugation of Northern Sami verbs resembles that of Finnish. There are three grammatical persons (\"persovnnat\"), and three grammatical numbers (\"logut\"), singular, dual and plural. There are four or five grammatical moods (\"vuogit\"):\n\nTense is also distinguished, but only in the indicative. There are two tenses (\"tempusat\"):\n\nIn addition, each mood and tense has a so-called connegative form. This form is used in negative sentences, when combined with the negative verb.\n\nFinally, there are several non-finite forms.\n\nThe infinitive is the dictionary form of the verb.\n\nThe present participle is an adjective indicating a current or ongoing action. It is identical in form to the agent noun, and has the same origin. However, the participle has only an attributive form, no case forms.\n\nThe past participle is an adjective indicating a past or completed action. Like the present participle, it has only an attributive form. It is also used in forming the periphrastic perfect tense, and as the connegative form of the past indicative.\n\nThe agent participle is an adjective indicating a past or completed action that has been completed by a particular agent. It only exists for transitive verbs. The agent precedes the participle and is in the genitive case, much like its Finnish counterpart:\n\nThe negative participle is an adjective indicating an action that has not been done by or to something. It can be either active or passive in meaning.\n\nThe action noun is a noun which indicates the action itself. It is not a verb form as such, but is often used in verbal constructions.\n\nThe action inessive (also called the \"action essive\") indicates \"in (the process of)\" or \"while\". It is used together with the copula \"leat\" to express a current, ongoing action, much like the English continuous.\n\nThe action inessive originates in the inessive case of the action noun, a case which no longer exists for nouns in Northern Sami.\n\nThe action elative (also called the \"action locative\") indicates \"from (the action of)\". It is used to indicate the cessation of an action, but is also required idiomatically by certain verbs.\n\n\nThe action elative originates in the elative case of the action noun, a case which became the locative in regular nouns.\n\nThe action comitative indicates \"through\" or \"by\". It originates in the comitative case of the action noun.\n\nThe purposive converb expresses \"in order to\".\n\nThe simultaneous converb expresses that an action took place \"during\" or \"while (doing)\" another one. It is always accompanied by a possessive suffix.\n\nThe negative converb (also called the \"verb abessive\") expresses \"without\".\n\nThe verb genitive is an adverbial form often used to indicate the way/method, accompanied by a verb of motion. It only exists for some verbs and is not very productive, so it is better considered a derivational form rather than an inflectional form.\n\nThe supine expresses \"in order to\". It is only used in western Northern Sami dialects.\n\nNorthern Sami, like other Uralic languages, has a negative verb that conjugates according to mood (indicative and imperative), person (1st, 2nd and 3rd) and number (singular, dual and plural). It does not conjugate according to tense.\n\nNorthern Sami uses a decimal numeral system. Cardinal numbers inflect like adjectives, but have no attributive form. Instead, the numeral matches the noun it modifies in case and number. All numerals except for \"okta\" (1) use the nominative singular form also for the accusative singular. For \"čieža\" (7), \"gávcci\" (8), \"ovcci\" (9), \"logi\" (10) and \"čuođi\" (100), the genitive singular form is used also for the nominative and accusative singular. In the plural, they inflect like all other nominals.\n\nThe numbers from 0 to 10 are:\n\nThe numbers 11 to 19 are formed by compounding a number from 1 to 9 with \"-nuppẹlohkái\" (literally \"into the second ten\").\n\nThe decades 20 to 90 are formed by simply compounding the multiple with \"logi\".\n\nCombinations of a decade and a unit are constructed by compounding the decade with the unit directly, as in English. For example:\n\n\n100 is \"čuođi\". Multiples of 100 are expressed like multiples of 10, by simple compounding: 200 \"guoktẹčuođi\", 300 \"golbmačuođi\" and so on. Combinations of a hundred and a lower number follow the same pattern, again by compounding, with the hundred coming first.\n\n\n1000 is \"duhát\". The pattern is the same as with the hundreds.\n\n\nNorthern Sami uses the long scale system.\n\n\nCombinations with lower numbers are much the same as with the thousands. Multiples use the accusative/genitive forms \"miljovnna\" and \"miljárdda\" instead.\n\n\nOrdinal numbers behave and inflect like regular adjectives. Except for \"nubbi\", they have an attributive form, which is identical to the nominative singular.\n\nFor the vast majority of numbers, the ordinal form is created by suffixing \"-t\", and putting the stem in the weak grade. The final vowel of the stem is often altered as well.\n\nWhen a number is composed of multiple parts, only the last one is converted to an ordinal, the rest stay in their cardinal form. Thus, 13th \"golbmanuppẹlogát\", 22nd \"guoktẹloginubbi\", 409th \"njealljẹčuođiovccát\", 9001st \"ovcciduhátvuosttaš\".\n\nNorthern Sami is an SVO language.\n\n"}
{"id": "37606866", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37606866", "title": "October 2012 Yisraela Goldblum Fund poll", "text": "October 2012 Yisraela Goldblum Fund poll\n\nIn mid-September 2012 a poll surveying Israeli attitudes was commissioned by the Yisraela Goldblum Fund and conducted on the eve of Rosh Hashanah by the polling agency Dialog, The results were first presented to the public by Haaretz journalist Gideon Levy on October 23, 2012, under the headline:'Survey: Most Israeli Jews would support apartheid regime in Israel.' In the wake of a controversy, Haaretz emended this to 'Survey: Most Israeli Jews wouldn't give Palestinians vote if West Bank was annexed', stating that the original headline 'did not accurately reflect the findings of the Dialog poll'. According to Haaretz, in the poll, 58% of respondents said Israel practiced apartheid against the Palestinians, and a third said Israeli Arabs should be denied the vote in Israel. Both the poll and Haaretz's presentation of its results have been challenged.\n\nDialog is run by Prof. Camil Fuchs, Haaretz's in-house pollster, and head of the Department of Statistics at Tel Aviv University's School of Mathematical Sciences. According to Haaretz, the questionnaire was written by a group of academic, peace, political and civil rights activists. The group consisted of the former director general of the Foreign Ministry and Israel ambassador to Turkey Alon Liel, who is married to New Israel Fund Israel's Executive Director Rachel Liel; former ambassador to South Africa Ilan Baruch, member of the New Israel Fund International Council; former chief of education in the IDF Mordechai Bar-On, member of the New Israel Fund International Council; and human rights lawyer Michael Sfard, legal counsel to several recipients of grants from the New Israel Fund, including Yesh Din, Breaking the Silence, Sheikh Jarrah Solidarity Movement.\n\nThe questionnaire consisted of 17 questions put to a sampling group of 503 interviewees, differentiated in terms of secular, traditional, religious, ultra-Orthodox and Russian. The margin of error was 4.3 Though originally reported as connected to the poll, the New Israel Fund quickly dissociated itself from the survey.\n\nThe poll results were first published in Haaretz by Gideon Levy, initially with the following headline:’ Survey: Most Israeli Jews would support apartheid regime in Israel.’ Levy’s presentation stirred headlines round the world, and was repeated or taken up rapidly by several newspapers that same day, including The Independent, Sydney Morning Herald the Daily Telegraph, and the Christian Science Monitor. AFP excluded the word ‘apartheid’ and headlined its report ‘Israelis approve discrimination if West Bank is annexed’. The following day, the Huffington Post. the government-funded Russian news service, RT, and The Guardian reported on Haaretz's poll, the latter placing the word ‘apartheid’ in inverted commas.\n\nLevy made the following points:-\n\nAnalyzing the results according to sectoral segmentation, Levy gave the following breakdown of the poll results:-\n\nUltra Orthodox Israelis:-\n\n(Non ultra-orthodox) religious Israelis:-\n\nSecular Israelis:- \n\nRussian immigrants are less radical, and closer to the secular Israelis in their outlook.\n\nIn a companion op-ed, Levy wrote he expected that the New Israel Fund, which has links to the Yisraeli Goldblum foundation, would be attacked for commissioning the survey. Levy noted that the results stated what Israelis already knew.\n\nThat afternoon HonestReporting gave a detailed critique of what it called Levy’s skewing of the poll data. On October 23, the \"Times of Israel\" also reported on problems with the poll.\n\nHaaretz reported that the survey conductors said that perhaps the term \"apartheid\" was not clear enough to some interviewees. Later in a press release Amiram Goldblum, who commissioned the poll stood by Haaretz’s version, stating that “A large part of the Jewish population (58%) accepts the application of the term ‘apartheid’ to the current state of affairs in Israel.” Goldblum also acknowledged there were problems with the questions and methodology used.\n\nMeretz leader Zehava Gal-On said that “It is not surprising that following four years of Netanyahu’s government, most Israeli citizens support apartheid”, and Jamal Zahalka, leader of Balad, said that Israel belonged to \"the same family\" as South Africa's apartheid regime.\n\nThe conductors of the survey and critics of the poll suggested it was unclear what respondents understood with \"apartheid\", and that since a plurality of respondents opposed annexing the West Bank, it shouldn't be concluded that most Israelis support apartheid. Some critics said a question in the poll on apartheid was complex and problematically formulated.\n\nMaurice Ostroff, a past chairman of the Israel South Africa Chamber of Commerce and a pro-Israel commentator, said that the results of the poll reveals that a vast majority of Israelis are not racists, and that the level of racism in Israel is lower than in most Western countries and in the Arab world. He cited an Amnesty International study titled “Choice and prejudice – discrimination against Muslims in Europe”, which found that public opinion in several European countries reflects Islamophobic views combined with racist attitudes. Another poll, he wrote, found that three-quarters of Qataris would object to a non-Muslim neighbor.\n\n"}
{"id": "6929379", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6929379", "title": "Public holidays in Botswana", "text": "Public holidays in Botswana\n\nPublic holidays in the Botswana are largely controlled by government sector employers who are given paid time off. The government holiday schedule mainly benefits employees of government and government regulated businesses. At the discretion of the employer, other non-federal holidays such as Christmas Eve are common additions to the list of paid holidays.\n\nMajor Christian holidays such as Christmas and Good Friday are officially observed, leave is permitted for other religious holidays as well. For example, some school children and employees take days off for Muslim holidays, Hindu holidays, or Eastern Orthodox observances according to the Julian calendar. While not normally taken off work, Valentine's Day, Halloween, Mother's Day, and Father's Day are traditionally observed by Batswana. \n\nA public holiday (also known as \"stats\" or \"general\" or \"statutory\" holiday) in Botswana is legislated through the parliament of Botswana. Most workers, public and private, are entitled to take the day off with regular pay. However, some employers may require employees to work on such a holiday, but the employee must either receive a day off in lieu of the holiday or must be paid at a premium rate – usually 1½ (known as \"time and a half\") or twice (known as \"double time\") the regular pay for their time worked that day, in addition to the holiday pay.\n\nThe religious and cultural holidays in Botswana are characterized by a diversity of religious beliefs and practices.\n\nSome private businesses and certain other institutions are closed on Good Friday. The financial market and stock market is closed on Good Friday. Most retail stores remain open although some might close early. Public schools and most universities are closed on Good Friday, either as a holiday of its own, or part of spring break. The postal service operates, and banks regulated by the federal government do not close for Good Friday.\n\nMany companies, including banks, malls, shopping centers and most private retail stores that normally open on Sundays are closed on Easter.\n\n\nCalculating\n"}
{"id": "1255199", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1255199", "title": "Punu people", "text": "Punu people\n\nThe Punu, or Bapunu (\"Bapounou\"), are a Bantu group of Central Africa and one of the four major peoples of Gabon, inhabiting interior mountain and grassland areas in the southwest of the country, around the upper N'Gounié and Nyanga Rivers. Bapunu also live in the Divenie, Kibangou, and Mossendjo districts of the Republic of the Congo. They are linguistically related to the Eshira.\n\nPunu traditions record a migration from the south sometime before the 19th century, as a result of wars somewhere between the Congo and Niari River. In the 19th century they gathered rubber, and participated in the slave trade, sending both their own and acquisitions from further inland to Loango and Fernan Vaz. In the present day, the Punu are noted for their cloth made of palm fiber, and for iron weaponry.\n\nThe Punu were once called \"Bayaka\" by others, but they themselves consider this a pejorative.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4380255", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4380255", "title": "Ranial Rajputs", "text": "Ranial Rajputs\n\nThe Ranial Rajputs of Rawalpindi are a branch of the Janjua Rajput clan.\n"}
{"id": "56237437", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56237437", "title": "Rèiteach", "text": "Rèiteach\n\nA rèiteach (/Reːhdʲəx/) was a betrothal ceremony in the older Gaelic culture of the Scottish highlands. It is also attested in Gaelic-speaking Canada.\n\nThe Gaelic word \"rèiteach\", which was written \"réiteach\" until the spelling reform, means \"agreement\", \"settlement\" or \"reconciliation\" generally, and \"wedding arrangement\" in particular. \"Rèiteach\" also has the meanings \"level place\" and \"disentangling\", and the original meaning may have to do with the idea of clearing away obstacles. (\"Réiteach\" is also the Irish word for \"agreement\" or \"solution\", but the Irish dictionaries make no mention of the ceremony.)\n\nThe custom was still in practice in the first part of the 20th century, and involved the groom's party visiting the bride's house with an offer. \n\nSometimes the rèiteach was divided into two parts, \"an rèiteach beag\" (the small rèiteach) or \"a' chiad réiteach\" (the first rèiteach), which was more private and simple, and \"an rèiteach mòr\" (the big réiteach), at which the details and practical issues were worked out. At the \"rèiteach mòr\", the whole community would be present, and the bride and groom would reenact for them the commitment made at the \"rèiteach beag\".\n\nIn one tradition the suitor would ask his prospective father-in-law for some gift, perhaps a boat or a cow, which was understood as a code for the daughter. An informant from Harris remembers:\n\nIn another tradition, at the \"rèiteach mòr\", the groom would be presented with a series of \"false brides\", whom he would have to reject politely until the real bride was offered.\n\nThe custom has become known in the English-speaking world through the novel and films \"Whisky Galore\". In both the 1949 film and the 2016 remake, the rèiteach is depicted as a ritual in which bride and groom drink whisky from a quaich in the presence of the whole community, after which there is drinking and dancing. The importance of whisky for the ceremony is a key element in the plot. In the original novel, Compton Mackenzie writes:\n\nIn 1922 the Gaelic playwright Iain N. MacLeòid produced a play entitled \"Réiteach Móraig\" (Morag's rèiteach), a companion to his play \"Pòsadh Móraig\" (Morag's wedding).\n\nThe Scottish Celtic rock group Runrig have a song entitled \"A reiteach\" in their 2008 live album \"Year of the Flood\".\n"}
{"id": "27034", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27034", "title": "Sardinian language", "text": "Sardinian language\n\nSardinian or Sard (\"sardu\" , \"limba sarda\" or \"língua sarda\" ) is the primary indigenous Romance language spoken by the Sardinians on most of the island of Sardinia. It is considered one of the closest genealogical descendants, if not the closest, to Latin by many Romance linguists. However, it also incorporates a Pre-Latin (mostly Paleo-Sardinian and, to a much lesser degree, Punic) substratum, as well as a Byzantine Greek, Catalan, Spanish and Italian superstratum due to the political membership of the island, which became a Byzantine possession followed by a significant period of self-rule, fell into the Iberian sphere of influence in the late Middle Ages, and eventually into the Italian one in the 18th century.\n\nIn 1997, Sardinian was recognized by a regional law, along with other languages spoken on the island; since 1999, Sardinian is also one of the twelve \"historical language minorities\" of Italy, being granted recognition by the national Law no. 482/1999. However, the vitality of the Sardinian-speaking community is threatened and UNESCO classifies the language as \"definitely endangered\", although an estimated 68.4 percent of the islanders report to have a good oral command of Sardinian. While the level of language competence is in fact relatively high among the older generation beyond retirement age, it has been estimated to have dropped to around 13 percent among children, with Sardinian being kept as a heritage language.\n\nSardinian is considered the most conservative Romance language, and its substratum (Paleo-Sardinian or Nuragic) has also been researched. A 1949 study by Italian-American linguist Mario Pei, analyzing the degree of difference from a language's parent (Latin, in the case of Romance languages) by comparing phonology, inflection, syntax, vocabulary, and intonation, indicated the following percentages (the higher the percentage, the greater the distance from Latin): Sardinian 8%, Italian 12%, Spanish 20%, Romanian 23.5%, Occitan 25%, Portuguese 31%, and French 44%. For example, Latin \"\"Pone mihi tres panes in bertula\" (put three loaves of bread [from home] in the bag for me) would be the very similar \"Ponemi tres panes in bertula\"\" in Sardinian.\n\nCompared to the mainland Italian dialects, Sardinian is virtually incomprehensible for Italians, being actually an autonomous linguistic group.\n\nSardinia's relative isolation from mainland Europe encouraged the development of a Romance language preserving traces of its indigenous, pre-Roman language(s). The language is posited to have substratal influences from Paleo-Sardinian language, which some scholars have linked to Basque and Etruscan. Adstratal influences include Catalan, Spanish, and Italian. The situation of Sardinian language with regard to the politically dominant ones did not change until the 1950s.\n\nThe origins of the Paleo-Sardinian language are currently not known. Research has attempted to discover obscure, indigenous, pre-Romance roots; the root \"s(a)rd\", present in many place names and denoting the island's people, is reportedly from the Sherden (one of the Sea Peoples), although this assertion is hotly debated.\n\nIn 1984, Massimo Pittau said he found in the Etruscan language the etymology of many Latin words after comparing it with the Nuragic language(s). Etruscan elements, formerly thought to have originated in Latin, would indicate a connection between the ancient Sardinian culture and the Etruscans. According to Pittau, the Etruscan and Nuragic language(s) are descended from Lydian (and therefore Indo-European) as a consequence of contact with Etruscans and other Tyrrhenians from Sardis as described by Herodotus. Although Pittau suggests that the Tirrenii landed in Sardinia and the Etruscans landed in modern Tuscany, his views are not shared by most Etruscologists.\n\nAccording to Alberto Areddu the Sherden were of Illyrian origin, on the basis of some lexical elements, unanimously acknowledged as belonging to the indigenous substrate. Areddu asserts that ancient Sardinians, especially those from the most interior areas (Barbagia and Ogliastra), supposedly spoke a particular branch of Indo-European. There are in fact some correspondences, both formal and semantic, with the few testimonies of Illyrian (or Thracian) languages, and above all with their claimed linguistical continuer, Albanian. He finds such correlations: Sard. \"eni\", \"enis\", \"eniu\" \"yew\" = Alb. \"enjë\" \"yew\"; Sard. \"urtzula\" \"clematis\" = Alb. \"urth\" \"ivy\"; Sard. \"rethi\" \"tendril\" = Alb. \"rrypthi\" \"tendril\". He also discovered some correlations with the Balkan bird world.\n\nAccording to Bertoldi and Terracini, Paleo-Sardinian has similarities with the Iberic languages and Siculian; for example, the suffix -\"ara\" in proparoxytones indicated the plural. Terracini proposed the same for suffixes in -', -/\"ànna\"/, -/\"énna\"/, -/\"ònna\"/ + ' + a paragogic vowel (such as the toponym \"Bunnànnaru\"). Rohlfs, Butler and Craddock add the suffix -' (such as the toponym \"Barùmini\") as a unique element of Paleo-Sardinian. Suffixes in /\"a\", \"e\", \"o\", \"u\"/ + -\"rr\"- found a correspondence in north Africa (Terracini), in the Iberia (Blasco Ferrer) and in southern Italy and Gascony (Rohlfs), with a closer relationship to Basque (Wagner and Hubschmid). However, these early links to a Basque precursor have been questioned by some Basque linguists. According to Terracini, suffixes in -', -', -', and -' are common to Paleo-Sardinian and northern African languages. Pittau emphasized that this concerns terms originally ending in an accented vowel, with an attached paragogic vowel; the suffix resisted Latinization in some place names, which show a Latin body and a Nuragic suffix. According to Bertoldi, some toponyms ending in -' and -/\"asài\"/ indicated an Anatolian influence. The suffix -/\"aiko\"/, widely used in Iberia and possibly of Celtic origin, and the ethnic suffix in -/\"itanos\"/ and -/\"etanos\"/ (for example, the Sardinian \"Sulcitanos\") have also been noted as Paleo-Sardinian elements (Terracini, Ribezzo, Wagner, Hubschmid and Faust).\n\nLinguists Blasco Ferrer (2009, 2010), Morvan (2009) and Arregi (2017) have attempted to revive a theoretical connection with Basque by linking words such as Sardinian \"ospile\" \"fresh grazing for cattle\" and Basque \"ozpil\"; Sardinian \"arrotzeri\" \"vagabond\" and Basque \"arrotz\" \"stranger\"; Sardinian \"galostiu\" and Basque \"gorostoi\"; Gallurese (Corso-Sardinian) \"zerru\" \"pig\" and Basque \"zerri\". Genetic data on the distribution of HLA antigens have suggested a common origin for the Basques and Sardinians.\n\nSince the Neolithic period, some degree of variance across the island's regions is also attested. The Arzachena culture, for instance, suggests a link between the northernmost Sardinian region (Gallura) and southern Corsica that finds further confirmation in the Naturalis Historia by Pliny the Elder. There are also some stylistic differences across Northern and Southern Nuragic Sardinia, which may indicate the existence of two other tribal groups (Balares and Ilienses) mentioned by the same Roman author. According to the archeologist Giovanni Ugas, these tribes may have in fact played a role in shaping the current regional linguistic differences of the island.\n\nAlthough Roman domination, which began in 238 , brought Latin to Sardinia, it was unable to completely supplant the pre-Latin Sardinian languages, including Punic, which continued to be spoken in the 4th century as attested by votive inscriptions. Some obscure Nuragic roots remained unchanged, and in many cases the Latin accepted local roots (like \"nur\", which makes its appearance in nuraghe, \"Nurra\", \"Nurri\" and many other toponyms). Barbagia, the mountainous central region of the island, derives its name from the Latin \"Barbaria\" (a term meaning \"Land of the Barbarians\", similar in origin to the \"Barbary\" word), because its people refused cultural and linguistic assimilation for a long time: 50% of toponyms of central Sardinia, particularly in the territory of Olzai, are actually not related to any known language. Besides the place names, on the island there are still a few names of plants, animals and geological formations directly traceable to the ancient Nuragic era. Cicero called the Sardinian rebels \"latrones mastrucati\" (\"thieves with rough wool cloaks\") to emphasize Roman superiority.\n\nDuring the long Roman domination Latin gradually become however the speech of the majority of the island's inhabitants. As a result of this process of romanization the Sardinian language is today classified as Romance or neo-Latin, with some phonetic features resembling Old Latin. Some linguists assert that modern Sardinian, being part of the Island Romance group, was the first language to split off from Latin, all others evolving from Latin as Continental Romance.\n\nAt that time, the only literature being produced in Sardinia was mostly in Latin: the native (Paleo-Sardinian) and non-native (Punic) pre-Roman languages were then already extinct (the last Punic inscription in Bithia, southern Sardinia, is from the second or third century A.D.). Some engraved poems in ancient Greek and Latin (the two most prestigious languages in the Roman Empire) are to be seen in Viper Cave, Cagliari, (\" Grutta 'e sa Pibera \" in Sardinian, \"Grotta della Vipera\" in Italian, \"Cripta Serpentum\" in Latin), a burial monument built by Lucius Cassius Philippus (a Roman who had been exiled to Sardinia) in remembrance of his dead spouse Atilia Pomptilla. We also have some religious works by Saint Lucifer and Eusebius, both from Caralis (Cagliari).\n\nAlthough Sardinia was culturally influenced and politically ruled by the Byzantine Empire for almost five centuries, Greek did not enter the language except for some ritual or formal expressions in Sardinian using Greek structure and, sometimes, the Greek alphabet. Evidence for this is found in the \"condaghes\", the first written documents in Sardinian. From the long Byzantine era there are only a few entries but they already provide a glimpse of the sociolinguistical situation on the island in which, in addition to the community's everyday Neo-Latin language, Greek was also spoken by the ruling classes. Some toponyms, such as Jerzu (thought to derive from the Greek \"khérsos\", \"untilled\"), together with the personal names Mikhaleis, Konstantine and Basilis, demonstrate Greek influence.\n\nAs the Muslims conquered southern Italy and Sicily, communications broke down between Constantinople and Sardinia, whose districts became progressively more autonomous from the Byzantine oecumene (Greek: οἰκουμένη). Sardinia was then brought back into the Latin cultural sphere.\n\nSardinian was the first Romance language of all to gain official status, being used by the four Giudicati (\"Judgedoms\" or \"Judicatures\"), former quarrelling Byzantine districts that became independent political entities after the Arab expansion in the Mediterranean cut off any ties left between the island and Byzantium. One of the oldest documents left in Sardinian (the so-called \"Carta Volgare\") comes from the Judgedom of Cagliari and was issued by Torchitorio I de Lacon-Gunale in around 1070, employing the Greek alphabet. Old Sardinian had a greater number of archaisms and Latinisms than the present language does. While the earlier documents show the existence of an early Sardinian Koine, the language used by the various Judgedoms already displayed a certain range of dialectal variation. A special position was occupied by the Judgedom of Arborea, the last Sardinian kingdom to fall to foreign powers, in which a transitional dialect was spoken, that of Middle Sardinian. The Carta de Logu of the Kingdom of Arborea, one of the first constitutions in history drawn up in 1355–1376 by Marianus IV and the Queen, the \"Lady Judge\" (\"judikessa\" in Sardinian, \"jutgessa\" in Catalan, \"giudicessa\" in Italian) Eleanor, was written in this transitional variety of Sardinian, and remained in force until 1827. It is presumed the Arborean judges attempted to unify the Sardinian dialects in order to be legitimate rulers of the entire island under a single state (\"republica sardisca\" \"Sardinian Republic\").\nDante Alighieri wrote in his 1302–05 essay \"De vulgari eloquentia\" that Sardinians, not being Italians (\"Latii\") and having no \"lingua vulgaris\" of their own, resorted to aping Latin instead. Dante's view has been dismissed, because Sardinian had evolved enough to be unintelligible to non-islanders. A popular 12th-century verse from the poem \"Domna, tant vos ai preiada\" quotes the provençal troubadour Raimbaut de Vaqueiras, saying \"No t'entend plui d'un Todesco / Sardesco o Barbarì\" (\"I don't understand you any more than I understand a German / or a Sardinian or a Berber\"); the Tuscan poet Fazio degli Uberti refers to the Sardinians in his poem \"Dittamondo\" as \"una gente che niuno non la intende / né essi sanno quel ch'altri pispiglia\" (\"a people that no one is able to understand / nor do they come to a knowledge of what other peoples say\"). The Muslim geographer Muhammad al-Idrisi, who lived in Palermo, Sicily at the court of King Roger II, wrote in his work \" Kitab Nuzhat al-mushtāq fi'khtirāq al-āfāq \" (\"The book of pleasant journeys into faraway lands\" or, simply, \"The book of Roger\") that \"Sardinia is large, mountainous, poorly provided with water, two hundred and eighty miles long and one hundred and eighty long from west to east. [...] Sardinians are ethnically \"Rūm Afāriqah\" (Latins of Africa), like the Berbers; they shun contacts with all the other \"Rūm\" nations and are people of purpose and valiant that never leave the arms\" (\"Wa ahl Ğazīrat Sardāniya fī aṣl Rūm Afāriqa mutabarbirūn mutawaḥḥišūn min ağnās ar-Rūm wa hum ahl nağida wa hazm lā yufariqūn as-silāḥ\").\nThe literature of this period primarily consists of legal documents, besides the aforementioned Carta de Logu. The first document containing Sardinian elements is a 1063 donation to the abbey of Montecassino signed by Barisone I of Torres. Other documents are the \"Carta Volgare\" (1070–1080) in Campidanese, the 1080 Logudorese Privilege, the 1089 Donation of Torchitorio (in the Marseille archives), the 1190–1206 Marsellaise Chart (in Campidanese) and an 1173 communication between the Bishop Bernardo of Civita and Benedetto, who oversaw the Opera del Duomo in Pisa. The Statutes of Sassari (1316) and Castelgenovese (c. 1334) are written in Logudorese.\n\nThe 1297 feoffment of Sardinia by Pope Boniface VIII led to the creation of the Aragonese Kingdom of Sardinia and a long period of war between the Aragonese and Sardinians, ending with a Aragonese victory at Sanluri in 1409 and the renunciation of any succession right signed by William III of Narbonne in 1420. During this period the clergy adopted Catalan as their primary language, relegating Sardinian to a secondary status. According to attorney Sigismondo Arquer (Cagliari, 1530 – Toledo, 4 giugno 1571), author of \"Sardiniae brevis historia et descriptio\" in Sebastian Münster's Cosmographia Universalis, Sardinian prevailed in rural areas and Catalan was spoken in the cities, where the ruling class eventually became bilingual in both languages; Alghero is still a Catalan-speaking enclave on Sardinia to this day.\n\nThe long-lasting war and the so-called Black Death had a devastating effect on the island, depopulating large parts of it. People from the neighbouring island of Corsica began to settle in the northern Sardinian coast, leading to the birth of the Tuscan-sounding Sassarese and Gallurese.\n\nDespite Catalan being widely spoken and written on the island at this time (leaving a lasting influence in Sardinian), there are some written records of Sardinian. One is the 15th-century \"Sa Vitta et sa Morte, et Passione de sanctu Gavinu, Brothu et Ianuariu\", written by Antòni Canu (1400–1476) and published in 1557: \"Tando su rey Barbaru, su cane renegadu / de custa resposta multu restayt iradu / et issu martiriu fetit apparigiare / Itu su quale fetit fortemente ligare / sos sanctos martires cum bonas catenas / qui li segaant sos ossos cum sas veinas / et totu sas carnes cum petenes de linu... \".\n\nThe 16th century is instead marked by a new Sardinian literary revival: \"Rimas Spirituales\", by Hieronimu Araolla, was aimed at \"glorifying and enriching Sardinian, our language\" (\"magnificare et arrichire sa limba nostra sarda\") as Spanish, French and Italian poets had already done for their languages (\"la Deffense et illustration de la langue françoyse\" and \"il Dialogo delle lingue\"). Antonio Lo Frasso, a poet born in Alghero (a city he remembered fondly) who spent his life in Barcelona, wrote lyric poetry in Sardinian:\n ... \"Non podende sufrire su tormentu / de su fogu ardente innamorosu. / Videndemi foras de sentimentu / et sensa una hora de riposu, / pensende istare liberu e contentu / m'agato pius aflitu e congoixosu, / in essermi de te senora apartadu, / mudende ateru quelu, ateru istadu ...\".\n\nThrough the marriage of Isabella I of Castile and Ferdinand II of Aragon in 1469 and, later in 1624, the reorganization of the monarchy led by the Count-Duke of Olivares, Sardinia would progressively join a broad Spanish cultural sphere and leave the exclusive Aragonese one. Spanish was perceived as an elitist language, gaining solid ground among the ruling Sardinian class; Spanish had thus a profound influence on Sardinian, especially in those words, styles and cultural models owing to the prestigious international role of the Habsburg Monarchy as well as the Court. Most Sardinian authors would write in both Spanish and Sardinian until the 19th century and were well-versed in the former, like Vicente Bacallar y Sanna that was one of the founders of the Real Academia Española. A notable exception was Pedro Delitala (1550–1590), who decided to write in Italian instead. Nonetheless, the Sardinian language retained much of its importance, being the only one the people from rural areas kept speaking. In \"Legendariu de Santas Virgines, et Martires de Iesu Christu\", the Orgolese priest Ioan Matheu Garipa called Sardinian the closest living relative of classical Latin: \"Las apo voltadas in sardu menjus qui non in atera limba pro amore de su vulgu [...] qui non tenjan bisonju de interprete pro bi-las decrarare, et tambene pro esser sa limba sarda tantu bona, quanta participat de sa latina, qui nexuna de quantas limbas si plàtican est tantu parente assa latina formale quantu sa sarda.\"\n\nA 1620 proclamation is in the Bosa archives.\n\nThe War of the Spanish Succession gave Sardinia to Austria, whose sovereignty was confirmed by the 1713–14 treaties of Utrecht and Rastatt. In 1717 a Spanish fleet reoccupied Cagliari, and the following year Sardinia was ceded to Victor Amadeus II of Savoy in exchange for Sicily. This transfer would not initially entail any social nor linguistic changes, though: Sardinia would still retain for a long time its Hispanic character, so much so that only in 1767 were the Aragonese and Spanish dynastic symbols replaced by the Savoyard cross.\n\nDuring the Savoyard period, a number of essays written by philologist Matteo Madau and professor (and senator) Giovanni Spano attempted to establish a unified orthography based on Logudorese, just like Florentine would become the basis for Italian. In 1811, Vincenzo Raimondo Porru published the first essay on the Southern Sardinian grammar and in 1832 the first Sardinian-Italian dictionary as well.\n\nHowever, the Savoyard government imposed Italian on Sardinia in July 1760, for reasons related more to the Savoyard need of drawing the island away from the Spanish influence than for Italian nationalism, which would be later pursued by the King Charles Albert. Spanish was thus replaced as the official language and Sardinian faced again marginalization. The relationship between the newly imposed tongue and the native one had been perceived from the start by the locals, educated and uneducated alike, as a relationship (albeit unequal in terms of political power and prestige) between two very different languages, and not between a language and one of its dialects like in other regions; the plurisecular Iberian period contributed in making the Sardinians feel more detached from the Italian language and its cultural sphere, and the Spanish themselves, comprising both the Aragonese and Castilian ruling class, long considered already Sardinian to be a distinct language with respect to their own tongues and Italian as well. At the time, Italian was a foreign language to the Sardinians.\n\nCarlo Baudi di Vesme (Cuneo, 1809 – Turin, 1877) claimed that the suppression of Sardinian and the imposition of Italian was desirable in order to make the islanders \"civilized Italians\". a basic primary education was thus offered exclusively through Italian, importing solely Italian-speaking teachers from the mainland, and Piedmontese cartographers replaced many Sardinian place names with Italian ones. Eventually, Sardinian came to be perceived as \"sa limba de su famine\" / \"sa lingua de su famini\", literally translating into English as \"the language of hunger\" (i.e. the language of the poor), and Sardinian parents strongly supported the teaching of the new tongue to their children, since they saw it as the portal to escaping from a poverty-stricken, rural, isolated and underprivileged life.\n\nDespite the assimilation policy the anthem of the Savoyard Kingdom of Sardinia was \"S'hymnu sardu nationale\" (\"the Sardinian National Anthem\"), also known as \"Cunservet Deus su Re\" (\"God save the King\"), with Sardinian lyrics first in Campidanese and then Logudorese.\n\nDuring the mobilization for World War I, the Italian Army compelled all Sardinians to enlist as Italian subjects and established the Sassari Infantry Brigade on 1 March 1915 at Tempio Pausania and Sinnai. Unlike the other infantry brigades of Italy, Sassari's conscripts were only Sardinians (including many officers). It is currently the only unit in Italy with an anthem in a language other than Italian: \"Dimonios\" (\"Devils\"), written in 1994 by Luciano Sechi. Its title derives from \"Rote Teufel\" (German for \"red devils\"). However, compulsory military service played a role in language shift.\n\nUnder Fascism, all languages other than Italian were banned, including Sardinia's improvised poetry competitions in Sardinian, and a large number of Sardinian surnames were changed to sound more Italian (e.g. \"Lussu\" becoming \"Lusso\", \"Pilu\" changing to \"Pilo\" and so on). This period saw the most aggressive cultural assimilation effort by the central government, which led to an even further sociolinguistic degradation of Sardinian. However, the Sardinian Hymn of the Piedmontese Kingdom was a chance to use a regional language without penalty; as a royal tradition, it could not be forbidden.\n\nAfter World War II, awareness around the Sardinian language and the danger of its slipping away did not seem to concern the Sardinian elites and entered the political spaces much later than in other European peripheries marked by the long-standing presence of ethno-linguistic minorities; on the contrary, the language was rejected by the already Italianized middle class. At the time of drafting of the statute in 1948, the legislator eventually decided to specify the \"Sardinian specialty\" as a single criterion for political autonomy just on the grounds of a couple of socio-economic issues devoid of considerations of a distinct cultural, historical and geographical identity, that were on the contrary looked down upon as a potential prelude to more autonomist or separatist claims. Eventually, the special statute of 1948 did not recognize any special geographical conditions about the region nor made any mention of a distinct cultural and linguistic element, preferring instead to concentrate on state-funded plans (baptised with the Italian name of \"piani di rinascita\") for the heavy industrial development of the island. In the meantime, the emphasis on Italian-only assimilation policies continued, with historical sites and ordinary objects renamed in Italian. The Ministry of Public Education reportedly requested that the Sardinian teachers be put under surveillance. The rejection of the indigenous language, along with a rigid model of Italian-language education, corporal punishment and shaming, led to poor schooling for Sardinians. As of 2015, Sardinia had the highest rate of school and university drop-out in Italy.\n\nThere have been many campaigns, often expressed in the form of political demands from the late '60s onwards, to give Sardinian equal status with Italian as a means to promote cultural identity. One of the first demands was formulated in a resolution adopted by the University of Cagliari in 1971, calling upon the national and regional authorities to recognize the Sardinians as an ethno-linguistic minority and Sardinian as the island's co-official language. Critical acclaim in Sardinian cultural circles followed the patriotic poem \"No sias isciau\" (\"Don't be a slave\") by Raimondo (\"Remundu\") Piras some months before his death in 1977, urging bilingual education to reverse the trend of deSardization. Following tensions and claims of the Sardinian nationalist movement for concrete cultural and political autonomy, including the recognition of the Sardinians as an ethnic and linguistic minority, three separate bills were presented to the Regional Council in the '80s. A survey conducted in 1984 (cited in Pinna Catte's work, 1992) showed that many Sardinians had a relatively positive attitude towards bilingual education (22% wanted Sardinian to be compulsory in Sardinian schools, while 54.7% would prefer to see teaching in Sardinian as optional). Such consensus remains relatively stable to this day; a further survey in 2008 reported that more than half of the interviewees, 57.3%, are in favour of the introduction of Sardinian into schools alongside Italian.\n\nIn the 1990s, there has been a resurgence of Sardinian-language music, ranging from the more traditional genres (\"cantu a tenore\", \"cantu a chiterra\", \"gosos\" etc.) to rock (\"Kenze Neke\", \"Askra\", \"Tzoku\", \"Tazenda\" etc.) and even hip hop and rap (\"Dr. Drer e CRC Posse\", \"Quilo\", \"Sa Razza\", \"Malam\", \"Menhir\", \"Stranos Elementos\", \"Malos Cantores\", \"Randagiu Sardu\", \"Futta\" etc.), and with artists who used the language as a means to promote the island and address its long-standing issues and the new challenges. A few films (like \"Su Re\", \"Bellas Mariposas\", \"Treulababbu\", \"Sonetaula\" etc.) have also been dubbed in Sardinian, and some others (like Metropolis) were provided with subtitles in the language.\n\nIn 1997, Sardinian was recognized by regional law n. 26 of 15 October 1997 \"Promotion and enhancement of the culture and language of Sardinia\" as the language of the Autonomous Region of Sardinia after Italian. Eventually, sustained activism made possible the formal recognition of twelve minority languages (Sardinian, Albanian, Catalan, German, Greek, Slovenian, Croatian, French, Franco-Provençal, Friulian, Ladin and Occitan) in the late 1990s by the framework law no. 482/1999, following Art. 6 of the Italian Constitution. While the first section of said law states that Italian is the official language of the Republic, a number of provisions are included in order to normalize the use of such languages and let them become part of the national fabric. Nevertheless, many people in the country continue to regard Sardinian as an \"Italian dialect\", likewise many school and university books in Italy did not stop to group the language under \"Linguistica italiana\" (Italian linguistics), \"Dialetti italiani\" (Italian dialects) or \"Dialettologia italiana\" (Italian dialectology). As of 2018, Sardinian is not taught at school, apart from a few experimental cases; furthermore, its use has not ceased to be disincentivized as antiquated or even indicative of a lack of education, leading many locals to associate it with negative feelings of shame, backwardness, and provincialism.\nBesides, a number of other factors like a considerable immigration flow from mainland Italy, the interior rural exodus to urban areas, where Sardinian is spoken by a much lower percentage of the population, and the use of Italian as a prerequisite for jobs and social advancement actually hinder any policy set up to promote the language. Therefore, UNESCO classifies Sardinian as \"definitely endangered\", since \"children no longer learn the language as mother tongue in the home\".\n\nAs of 2010, language use was far from stable: reports showed that, while an estimated 68 percent of the islanders had a good oral command of Sardinian, language ability among the children dropped to around 13 percent, if not even less; some linguists, like Mauro Maxia, cite the low number of Sardinian-speaking children as indicative of language decline, calling Sardinia \"a case of linguistic suicide\". According to the data published by ISTAT in 2006, 52.5% of the population in Sardinia speaks just Italian in the family environment, while 29.3% alternates Italian and Sardinian and only 16.6% uses Sardinian or other non-Italian languages; outside the social circle of family and friends, the numbers define Italian as the prevalent language (77,1%), while the usage of Sardinian and other languages drops to 5,2%. Today, most people who use Sardinian as part of day-to-day life reside mainly in the sparsely populated areas in the countryside, like the mountainous region of Barbagia.\n\nA bill proposed by former prime minister Mario Monti's cabinet would have lowered Sardinian's protection level, distinguishing between languages protected by international agreements (German, Slovenian, French and Ladin) and indigenous languages. This bill, which was not implemented (Italy, along with France and Malta, has signed but not ratified the European Charter for Regional or Minority Languages), triggered a reaction on the island. Students have expressed an interest in taking all (or part) of their exit examinations in Sardinian.\nIn response to a 2013 Italian initiative to remove bilingual signs on the island, a group of Sardinians began a virtual campaign on Google Maps to replace Italian place names with the original Sardinian names. After about one month, Google changed the place names back to Italian. After a signature campaign, it has been made possible to change the language setting on Facebook from any language to Sardinian. It is also possible to switch to Sardinian even in Telegram and a couple of other apps, like Vivaldi, F-Droid, Diaspora, OsmAnd, Notepad++, Swiftkey, Stellarium, Skype, VLC media player for Android, Linux Mint Debina Edition 2 \"Betsy\", etc. In 2016, the first automatic translation software from Italian to Sardinian was developed.\nIn 2015, all the political parties in the Sardinian regional council have reached an agreement involving a series of amendments to the old 1997 law in order to introduce the optional teaching of the language in Sardinia's schools. The Unified Text on the Discipline of the Regional linguistic policy has been eventually approved in June 27, 2018, with the aim of setting in motion a path towards bilingual administration, contributions to bilingual mass media, publishing, IT schools and websites; it also allows for the foundation of a Sardinian board (\"Consulta de su Sardu\") with thirty experts that will propose a linguistic standard based on the main historical macrovarieties, and shall also have advisory duties towards the Regional body. Although there is still not an option to teach Sardinian on the island itself, let alone in Italy, some language courses are instead sometimes available in Germany (Universities of Stuttgart, Munich, Tübingen, Mannheim etc.), Spain (University of Girona), Iceland and Czech Republic (Brno university). Shigeaki Sugeta also taught Sardinian to his students of Romance languages at the Waseda University in Tokyo, Japan.\n\nAt present, the Sardinian-speaking community is the least protected one in Italy, despite being the largest minority language group officially recognized by the state. In fact the language, which is receding in all domains of use, is still not given access to any field of public life, such as education (Italian–Sardinian bilingualism is still frowned upon, while the local universities do not play pretty much any role whatsoever in supporting the language), politics (with the exception of some nationalist groups), justice, administrative authorities and public services, media, and cultural, ecclesiastical, economic and social activities, as well as facilities. According to a 2017 report on the digital language diversity in Europe, Sardinian appears to be particularly vital on social media as part of many people's everyday life for private use, but such vitality does not still translate into a strong and wide availability of Internet media for the language. In 2017, a 60-hour Sardinian language course has been introduced for the first time in Sardinia and Italy at the University of Cagliari, although such a course was already available in other universities abroad.\n\nIn 2015, the Council of Europe commented on the status of national minorities in Italy, noting the \"à la carte\" approach of the Italian state towards them with the exception of the German, French and Slovenian languages, where Italy has applied full bilingualism due to international agreements. Despite the formal recognition from the Italian state, Italy does not in fact collect any information on the ethnic and linguistic composition of the population, apart from South Tyrol. There is also virtually no print and broadcasting media exposure in politically or numerically weaker minorites like Sardinian. Moreover, the resources allocated to cultural projects like bilingual education, which lacks a consistent approach, are largely insufficient to meet \"even the most basic expectations\".\n\nWith cultural assimilation having already occurred, Sardinian is considered by many people on the island, both natives and from the Mainland, a low means of communication relegated to little more than highly localised levels of interaction. With a solution to the Sardinian question being unlikely to be found anytime soon, the language has become highly endangered: the late recognition as a minority language, as well as the gradual Italianization promoted by the education system, the administration system and the media, followed by the intergenerational language replacement, made it so that Sardinian's vitality has been heavily compromised. Most of the younger generation, although they do understand some Sardinian, is now in fact Italian monolingual and monocultural, speaking a Sardinian-influenced dialect of Italian that is often nicknamed \"italiànu porcheddìnu\" (\"pig Italian\", meaning more or less \"broken Italian\") by many native Sardinian speakers.\n\nWhatever the fate of the declining Sardinian language might be, it shall form the substratum of the one prevailing now, Italian, in a number of linguistic components specific to the island.\n\nThere have been some attempts at creating a standardized form of Sardinian over the years.\n\nThe Regional Council Deliberations no. 52/105 of 28 December 1999 and n. 59/117 of 29 December 1998 assigned the members for a commission with the goals of investigating an orthographic standardization of the Sardinian language and a project of linguistic unification. Those assigned to this commission were Eduardo Blasco Ferrer, Roberto Bolognesi, Diego Salvatore Corraine, Ignazio Delogu, Antonietta Dettori, Giulio Paulis, Massimo Pittau, Tonino Rubattu, Leonardo Sole, Heinz Jürgen Wolf, and Matteo Porru (acting as secretary of the commission). The output of this commission was the \"Limba Sarda Unificada\" (LSU). Its rules were published in 2001 by the Autonomous Region of Sardinia. This was met with some criticism and was also not adopted by the regional council. \n\nRegional Council Deliberation no. 20/15 of 9 May 2005 appointed a new commission composed of Giulio Angioni, Roberto Bolognesi, Manlio Brigaglia, Michel Contini, Diego Corraine, Giovanni Lupinu, Anna Oppo, Giulio Paulis, Maria Teresa Pinna Catte, Mario Puddu with within the framework of a program of measures for the protection and promotion of the Sardinian language, developing a guide for use by the regional administration in the translation of acts. This commission's output \"Limba Sarda Comuna\" was experimentally adopted for use by the regional authorities of Sardinia with Regional Council Deliberation no. 16/14 of 18 April 2006. The resolution does not aim to impose this spelling guide and notes that it is \"open to integrations\" and that \"all solutions are of equal linguistic value\". This work does not refer to language syntax and concerns itself primarily with spelling.\n\nAll dialects of Sardinian have phonetic features that are relatively archaic compared to other Romance languages. The degree of archaism varies, with the dialect spoken in the Province of Nuoro being considered the most conservative. Medieval evidence indicates that the language spoken in Sardinia and Corsica at the time was similar to modern Nuorese Sardinian. The other dialects are thought to have evolved through Catalan, Spanish and later Italian influences.\n\nThe examples listed below are from the Logudorese dialect:\n\nSardinian contains the following phonetic innovations:\n\nAlthough the latter two features were acquired during Spanish rule, the others indicate a deeper relationship between ancient Sardinia and the Iberian world; the retroflex \"d\", \"l\" and \"r\" are found in southern Italy, Tuscany and Asturias, and were probably involved in the palatalization process of the Latin clusters \"-ll-\", \"-pl-\", \"-cl-\" (\"-ll-\"- > Spanish and Catalan -\"ll\"- , Gascon \"-th-\" ; \"-cl-\" > Galician-Portuguese \"-ch-\" , Italian \"-chi-\" ), which as seen above had a different development in Sardinian.\n\nVowels are , , , and , without length differentiation. Metaphony occurs with and , which in particular tend to be open-mid and when they are stressed and the following syllable does not contain or or a palatal.\n\nThere are also nasal vowels , , , , in some varieties, and even nasal diphthongs when an intervocalic \"n\" is deleted like in .\n\nAccording to Eduardo Blasco Ferrer, Sardinian has the following phonemes:\n\nThere are three series of plosives or corresponding approximants:\nIn Cagliari and neighboring dialects, the soft has become due to rhotacism:  > / \"finger\".\n\nThe double-voiced retroflex stop (usually written \"-dd-\") derives from the former retroflex lateral approximant .\n\n\n\n\nSome permutations of \"l\" and \"r\" are seen: in most dialects a preconsonantal \"l\" (for example, \"-lt-\" or \"-lc-\") becomes \"r\": Latin  > \"high/tall\", / \"rock\".\n\nIn palatal context, Latin \"l\" changed into , , , or , rather than the of Italian: (Italian ),  > // \"wish, longing\" (Italian ),  > // \"leaf\" (Italian ),  > // \"daughter\" (Italian ).\n\nSome distinctive features typical of Sardinian are:\n\nHistorically, the Sardinians have always been quite a small population scattered across isolated cantons, sharing similar demographic patterns with Corsica. Starting from Francesco Cetti's description in the 18th century, the Sardinian language has been traditionally subdivided into two macro-varieties, each spoken by roughly half of the entire community: the Logudorese dialects (\"su sardu logudoresu\") and the Campidanese dialects (\"su sardu campidanesu\"), spoken respectively in North-Central and Southern Sardinia. All the Sardinian dialects differ primarily in phonetics, which does not hamper intelligibility; the view of there being a dialectal boundary separating the Campidanese and Logudorese varieties has been in fact subjected to more recent research, that shows a fluid linguistic continuum from the Northern to the Southern ends of the island. The dual perception of the Sardinian dialects, rather than pointing to an actual isogloss, is in fact the result of a psychological adherence to the way Sardinia was administratively subvidided into a \"Caput Logudori\" (\"Cabu de Susu\") and a \"Caput Calaris\" (\"Cabu de Jossu\") by the Spanish. Some attempts have been recently made to introduce a standardized writing system for administrative purposes, like the LSU (\"Limba Sarda Unificada\", \"Unified Sardinian Language\") and then the LSC (\"Limba Sarda Comuna\", \"Common Sardinian Language\"), but they have not been generally acknowledged by native speakers.\n\nLogudorese and Campidanese dialects have been estimated to have 88% of matches in 110-item wordlist, similarly to the 85-88% number of matches between Provençal Occitan and the Catalan dialects, which by some standards is usually (even though arbitrarily) considered characteristic for two different, although closely related languages. ISO 639 standard even considers Sardinian a macrolanguage consisting of four languages (Campidanese, Gallurese, Logudorese and Sassarese) with separate codes.\n\nThe Logudorese dialects are generally considered more conservative, with the Nuorese subdialect (\"su sardu nugoresu\") being the most conservative of all. They have all retained the classical Latin pronunciation of the stop velars (\"kena\" versus \"cena\", \"supper\"), the front middle vowels (compare Campidanese iotacism, probably from Byzantine Greek) and assimilation of close-mid vowels (\"cane\" versus \"cani\", \"dog\" and \"gattos\" versus \"gattus\", \"cats\"). Labio-velars become plain labials (\"limba\" versus \"lingua\", \"language\" and \"abba\" versus \"acua\", \"water\"). \"I\" is prosthesized before consonant clusters beginning in \"s\" (\"iscala\" versus Campidanese \"scala\", \"stairway\" and \"iscola\" versus \"scola\", \"school\"). An east-west strip of villages in central Sardinia speaks a transitional group of dialects (\"su sardu de mesania\"). Examples include \"is limbas\" (the languages) and \"is abbas\" (the waters). The Campidanese dialects are spoken in the southern half of Sardinia (including Cagliari, once the metropolis of the Roman province), and was more influenced by Carthage, Rome, Constantinople and Late Latin. Examples include \"is fruminis\" (the rivers) and \"is domus\" (the houses).\n\nSardinian is the indigenous and historical language of most Sardinian communities. However, Sardinian is not spoken as the native and primary language in a significant number of other ones, amounting to 20% of the Sardinian population. The afore-mentioned Gallurese and Sassarese, despite being often colloquially considered part of Sardinian, are two Corso-Sardinian transitional languages; they are spoken in the northernmost part of Sardinia, although some Sardinian is also understood by the majority of people living there (73,6% in Gallura and 67,8% in the Sassarese-speaking subregion). Sassari, the second-largest city on Sardinia and the main center of the northern half of the island (\"cabu de susu\" in Sardinian, \"capo di sopra\" in Italian), is located there. There are also two language islands, the Catalan Algherese-speaking community from the inner city of Alghero (northwest Sardinia) and the Ligurian-speaking towns of Carloforte, in San Pietro Island, and Calasetta in Sant'Antioco island (south-west Sardinia).\n\n\n"}
{"id": "648554", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=648554", "title": "Sectarian violence", "text": "Sectarian violence\n\nSectarian violence and/or sectarian strife is a form of communal violence inspired by sectarianism, that is, between different sects of one particular mode of ideology or religion within a nation/community. Religious segregation often plays a role in sectarian violence.\n\nAccording to the Stockholm International Peace Research Institute:\nSectarian violence differs from the concept of race riot. It may involve the dynamics of social polarization, the balkanization of a geographic area along the lines of self-identifying groups, and protracted social conflict.\n\nSome of the possible enabling environments for sectarian violence include power struggles, political climate, social climate, cultural climate, and economic landscape.\n\nAlthough the First Crusade was initially launched in response to an appeal from Byzantine Emperor Alexios I Komnenos for help in repelling the invading Seljuq Turks from Anatolia, one of the lasting legacies of the Crusades was to \"further separate the Eastern and Western branches of Christianity from each other.\"\n\nFollowing the onset of the Protestant Reformation, a series of wars were waged in Europe starting circa 1524 and continuing intermittently until 1648. Although sometimes unconnected, all of these wars were strongly influenced by the religious change of the period, and the conflict and rivalry that it produced. According to Miroslav Volf, the European wars of religion were a major factor behind the \"emergence of secularizing modernity\".\n\nIn the St. Bartholomew's Day massacre followers of the Roman Catholic Church killed up to 30,000 Huguenots (French Protestants) in mob violence. The massacres were carried out on the national day celebrating Bartholomew the Apostle. Pope Gregory XIII sent the leader of the massacres a Golden Rose, and said that the massacres \"gave him more pleasure than fifty Battles of Lepanto, and he commissioned Giorgio Vasari to paint frescoes of it in the Vatican\". The killings have been called \"the worst of the century's religious massacres\", and led to the start of the \"fourth war\" of the French Wars of Religion.\n\nSince the 16th century there has been sectarian conflict of varying intensity between Roman Catholics and Protestants in Ireland. This religious sectarianism is connected to a degree with nationalism. Northern Ireland has seen inter-communal conflict for more than four centuries and there are records of religious ministers or clerics, the agents for absentee landlords, aspiring politicians, and members of the landed gentry stirring up and capitalizing on sectarian hatred and violence back as far as the late 18th century.\n\nWilliam E.H. Lecky, an Irish historian, wrote in 1892 that, \"If the characteristic mark of a healthy Christianity be to unite its members by a bond of fraternity and love, then there is no country where Christianity has more completely failed than Ireland\".\n\nSteve Bruce, a sociologist, wrote;\n\nJohn Hickey wrote;\n\nThe period from 1969-98 is known as \"The Troubles\", a period of frequent violence and tense relations between Northern Ireland's communities. About one in eight females and one in five males in Northern Ireland identified themselves as belonging to no religion. However, people of no religion and non-Christian faiths are still considered as belonging to one of the two \"sects\" along with churchgoers. People of no religion are less likely to support the main, constitution-oriented main political parties, or more likely to support a more neutral political party such as the Alliance Party of Northern Ireland. \n\nAbout two thirds of people with no religion tend to think of themselves as neither unionist or nationalist, although a much higher percentage of those with no religion tend to think of themselves as unionist than nationalist.\n\nFor people who describe themselves as Protestant or Roman Catholic, a small majority of them appear to favour one of the two main political parties on either side: the Democratic Unionist Party or the Ulster Unionist Party for Protestants; and Sinn Féin or the Social Democratic and Labour Party for Roman Catholics. In each case, the percentage in the \"Northern Irish Life & Times Survey\" in 2015 was 57%. Roman Catholics are more likely to reject the label British (59%) than Protestants are to reject the label Irish (48%). \n\nProtestants are more likely to consider the British identity as the 'best' single way to describe themselves, at 67%, with Roman Catholics close behind at 63% who consider the best single way to describe themselves as Irish. There is an equal level of support for the more neutral Northern Irish identity, with 25% of people from each religion likely to choose that label as the best description. Over a third of people with no religion prefer to be described as Northern Irish.\n\nThere are organizations dedicated to the reduction of sectarianism in Northern Ireland. The Corrymeela Community (in Ballycastle, County Antrim), operates a retreat centre on the northern coast of Northern Ireland to bring Catholics and Protestants together to discuss their differences and similarities. The Ulster Project works with teenagers from Northern Ireland and the United States to provide safe, non-denominational environments to discuss sectarianism in Northern Ireland. These organizations are attempting to bridge the gap of historical prejudice between the two religious communities.\n\nAlthough state schools in Northern Ireland are non-denominational, most Catholic parents still send their children to specifically Catholic schools or Irish-language medium schools, thus ensuring that state school students are almost wholly Protestant. There are some integrated schools and the Society of Friends (Quakers) have long been an advocate of co-education in terms of religion, operating the Friends' School in Lisburn (first established in 1774).\n\nHoward Goeringer criticizes both the \"Catholic Pope and the Orthodox Patriarch\" for failing to condemn the \"deliberate massacre of men, women and children in the name of 'ethnic cleansing' as incompatible with Jesus' life and teaching.\"\n\nThe majority of Rwandans, and Tutsis in particular, are Catholic, so shared religion did not prevent genocide. Miroslav Volf cites a Roman Catholic bishop from Rwanda as saying, \"The best cathechists, those who filled our churches on Sundays, were the first to go with machetes in their hands\". Ian Linden asserts that \"there is absolutely no doubt that significant numbers of prominent Christians were involved in sometimes slaughtering their own church leaders.\" According to Volf, \"what is particularly disturbing about the complicity of the church is that Rwanda is without doubt one of Africa’s most evangelized nations. Eight out of ten of its people claimed to be Christians.\"\n\nWhen the Roman Catholic missionaries came to Rwanda in the late 1880s, they contributed to the \"Hamitic\" theory of race origins, which taught that the Tutsi were a superior race. The Church has been considered to have played a significant role in fomenting racial divisions between Hutu and Tutsi, in part because they found more willing converts among the majority Hutu. The Organisation of African Unity (OAU) report on the genocide states,\n\nIn the colonial era, under German and then Belgian rule, Roman Catholic missionaries, inspired by the overtly racist theories of 19th century Europe, concocted a destructive ideology of ethnic cleavage and racial ranking that attributed superior qualities to the country's Tutsi minority, since the missionaries ran the colonial-era schools, these pernicious values were systematically transmitted to several generations of Rwandans…\n\nThe Roman Catholic Church argues that those who took part in the genocide did so without the sanction of the Church. Although the genocide was ethnically motivated and religious factors were not prominent, Human Rights Watch reported that a number of religious authorities in Rwanda, particularly Roman Catholic, failed to condemn the genocide publicly at the time. \n\nSome Christian leaders have been convicted by the International Criminal Tribunal for Rwanda for their roles in the genocide. These include Rwandan Roman Catholic priests and nuns as well as a Seventh-day Adventist Church pastor.\n\nScotland, which is very close to Northern Ireland, suffers from a spill-over of sectarianism, largely owing to the Troubles in Northern Ireland as many people, particularly in the West of Scotland, have links to Northern Ireland by genealogy or immigration. \n\nScotland's two largest and best supported football clubs -- Glasgow Rangers, which, for many generations, has largely been identified with Protestants and unionism, and Glasgow Celtic, which, since its founding in the late 19th century, has been identified with Roman Catholics and Irish nationalism or republicanism -- both subscribe, with varying degrees of success, to government initiatives and charities like the Nil by Mouth campaign are working in this area.\n\nCeltic previously sent letters to every season ticket holder reminding supporters that no form of sectarianism is welcome at Celtic Park. Rangers' anti-sectarian policy is called \"Follow With Pride\".\n\nSectarian violence between the two major sects of Islam, Shia and Sunni, has occurred in countries like Pakistan, Iraq, Afghanistan, Bahrain, Lebanon etc. This violent conflict has roots in the political turmoil arising out of differences over the succession to Muhammad. Abu Bakr, a companion of Muhammad, was nominated by Umar and elected as the first Sunni Rightly Guided Caliph. However another group felt that Ali, the cousin and son-in-law of Muhammad, had been designated by Muhammad and is considered by Shia as the first Imam.\n\nAccording to Sunnis, Abu Bakr was followed by Umar as caliph of the Rashidun Caliphate, then by Uthman ibn Affan and finally by Ali. Ali's right to rule was challenged by Muawiyah bin Abu Sufian, governor of Syria, who believed that Ali should have acted faster against the murderers of Uthman. The situation deteriorated further when many of those responsible for the death of Uthman rallied behind Ali. However, later on, both the parties agreed to have some one as a judge between them. This led to the separation of an extremist group known as Kharijites from Ali's army, which pronounced the judgement belonged to God alone. A member of this group later assassinated Ali. By breaching, Hasan-Muawiyah Treaty, Muawiyah appointed his son Yazid as his successor. The credentials and rule of Yazid were challenged by Ali's son Hussein ibn Ali (and grandson of Muhammad). A battle at Karbala in Iraq led to the martyrdom of Hussein and dozens of others from \"Ahl al-Bayt\" (the members of the family of Muhammad).\n\nThis tragic incident created deep fissures in the Muslim society. The conflict that had started at a political plane intervened with the dogma and belief systems. Those who consider Ali to be the true heir to the Muhammad are known as \"Shia\" referring to Shian-e-Ali. The other Muslims are known as \"Sunni\" meaning \"followers of the Traditions of The Prophet\".\n\nIn February 2006, more than 100 people were killed across Iraq, when violence between the two Muslim rival sects erupted. It has left over a hundred people dead and dozens of mosques and homes destroyed.\n\nIn Pakistan sectarianism exhibited its first organized nature in early 1980 when two rival organizations were established: Tehrik-e-Jafaria (TFJ) (Organization of the Jafri (Shia) Law) represented Shia communities, and Sipah-e-Sahaba Pakistan (SSP) (Guardian of the Companions of the Prophet) representing Sunnis. The first major incident of this sectarian violence was killing of the Arif Hussain Hussaini, founding leader of TFJ in 1986. \n\nIn retaliation Haq Nawaz Jhangvi, founder of the (SSP) was murdered. Since then internecine bloody vendetta has ensued. The focus of this violence has been Kurram, Hangu, Dera Ismail Khan, Bahawalpur, Jhang, Quetta,Gigit- Baltistan and Karachi.\n\nThe transformation of the sectarian conflict to a violent civil war in Pakistan coincided with the establishment of the Islamic republic in Iran and promotion of the Sunni religion and its incorporation in the state institutions by General Muhammad Zia-ul-Haq, regime in Pakistan.\n\nThe Iranian Revolution was led by Shia clerics, and it influenced Shia communities all over the world. In Pakistan Tehrik-e-Jafaria was established with the demands of enforcing the Sharia Law. This demand was viewed as detrimental by the Sunni religious leaders. In response SSP was established by the Sunni extremist clerics. Many of these clerics had a background in the sectarian strife against the Ahmadis (a heterodox sect considered non-Muslim by majority of the Orthodox Schools)\n\nAhlu Sunna Waljama'a is a Somali paramilitary group consisting of Sufis and moderates opposed to the radical Islamist group Al-Shabaab. They are fighting in order to prevent Wahhabism from being imposed on Somalia and to protect the country's Sunni-Sufi traditions and generally moderate religious views.\n\nThe Syrian civil war gradually shifted towards a more sectarian nature. Pro-Assad militant groups are largely Shia, while anti-Assad militant groups are non-secular, fundamentalist Sunni.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "39026346", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39026346", "title": "Siedlce University of Natural Sciences and Humanities", "text": "Siedlce University of Natural Sciences and Humanities\n\nThe Siedlce University of Natural Sciences and Humanities () is a higher-education institution in Siedlce, Poland. It was created on October 1, 2010 by the decision of Sejm signed by the President of the Republic of Poland, Bronisław Komorowski. The previous name of the university was 'Akademia Podlaska w Siedlcach', in English known officially as University of Podlasie.\n\nThe history of the academic institution in Siedlce began in 1969. It has had four previous titles during its existence:\n\nThe university has four faculties: Natural Sciences, Humanities, Exact Sciences, Law and Economics Studies.\n\nThe university is eligible to give doctoral degrees in agronomy, biology, chemistry, history, safety science and zoology.\n"}
{"id": "15851767", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15851767", "title": "Swedish Iraqis", "text": "Swedish Iraqis\n\nIraqis are the second largest minority group living in Sweden, with 131,888 Iraq-born people living in Sweden and 47,913 Swedes with at least one Iraq-born parent. The size of this group has doubled in the period of 2002 to 2009; the influx of Iraqi refugees increased dramatically from 2006 to 2009 as a result of the Iraq War.\n\nIraq-born people are the second largest minority group living in Sweden, after the Sweden Finns (5.1%).\n\nIraqi immigrants to Sweden have come in four distinct waves of migration. The first were around 8,000 Kurdish and Assyrian nationalists and Iraqi communists who were escaping the Baathist regime. This wave was between 1968–1978. The second wave of 10,000 people was between 1980 and 1988, mainly Kurds and Assyrians escaping the Al-Anfal Campaign and Iraqi men escaping forced conscription in the Iran–Iraq War. The third wave was about 15,000 people, between 1991 and 1999, again mostly Kurdish and Assyrian people from Northern Iraq. Most of these came with families. The largest numbers, almost 30,000 people, of Iraqis in Sweden today have migrated as a consequence of the Iraq War of 2003 to 2010. Most of them have been Sunni Arabs and Assyrian Christians.\n\nChristian Iraqis, fearing persecution in their homeland, make up a large part of that influx after Iraq occupation in 2003. Sweden accepts more than half of all asylum applications from Iraqis in Europe. In 2006, over 9,000 Iraqis fled their country and came to Sweden seeking shelter, a fourfold increase over 2005. In 2007, Sweden attempted to throttle the influx of Iraqi refugees by tightening the rules for asylum seekers, but in 2008 there were again record numbers of Iraqi immigrants, close to 12,000. In 2009, the number of immigrants fell again slightly, to 8,400.\n\nIraqi-born persons in Sweden by year:\nIn 2006 Sweden granted protection status to more Iraqis than in all other EU states combined. In 2005 only 0.1 percent of Iraqis were recognised as refugees, but the total recognition rate including those granted complementary protection was a relatively high 24 per cent. In the year 2006 however, recognition rates leapt to a total of 91 per cent.\n\nThe Swedish Migration Board decided in early 2006 that all Iraqi asylum-seekers from Central and Southern Iraq whose claims had been rejected as part of the normal status determination process would nevertheless receive a permanent residence permit, allowing the majority of Iraqis in Sweden to begin the process of fully integrating into Swedish society with a secure legal status.\n\nIn the context of the generally low recognition rates for Iraqis in other EU states, Sweden's generosity led to a surge in the number of applications received from Iraqis. Figures increased from 2,330 in 2005 to 8,951 the following year, with a further 1,500 new arrivals per month in the first half of 2007. Most of these persons have joined the existing Iraqi community in Sweden in municipalities such as Malmö and Södertälje, with the scale of the influx to these areas forcing newcomers to live in very poor conditions. Speaking in June 2007, Södertälje's mayor Anders Lago described the situation as being close to breaking point, with the authorities barely able to provide basic services and many newcomers sharing apartments with up to fifteen people.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3113622", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3113622", "title": "Tabom people", "text": "Tabom people\n\nThe Tabom People or Agudas are the Afro-Brazilian community in South of Ghana who are mostly of Yoruba descent. The Tabom People are an Afro-Brazilian community of former slaves returnees. When they arrived in South Ghana and Accra and they could speak only Portuguese, so they greeted each other with “Como está?” (How are you?) to which the reply was “Tá bom”, so the Ewe people, Ga-Adangbe people and Akan people in of South Ghana and Accra started to call them the Tabom People.\n\nThe Afro-Brazilian descendants and community in South Ghana dates back to one study from the 19th century that between an estimated 3,000 and 8,000 former slaves decided to return to Africa.\n\nUp to now it is not very clear, if the Tabom really bought their freedom and decided to immediately come back or if they were at that time free workers in Brazil, they came after the Malê Revolt of 1835 in Bahia. A lot of Afro-Brazilians when percecuted found their way back to Ghana, Togo, Benin and Nigeria especially those who organised the Malê Revolt. In Ghana it is common to find family names like de Souza, Silva, or Cardoso. Some of them have been very well known in Ghana.\n\n In Ghana, the representative group of people that decided to come back from Brazil is the Tabom People. They came back on a ship called SS \"Salisbury\", offered by the British government. About seventy Afro-Brazilians of seven different families arrived in South Ghana and Accra, in the region of the old port in James Town in 1836. The reception by the Mantse Nii Ankrah of the Otublohum area was so warm that they decided to settle down in Accra. The leader of the Tabom group at the time of their arrival was a certain Nii Azumah Nelson. The eldest son of Azumah Nelson, Nii Alasha, was his successor and a very close friend to the Ga King Nii Tackie Tawiah. Together they helped in the development of the whole community in commerce.\n\nAt the present moment the Tabom Mantse is Nii Azumah V, descendant of the Nelson’s. The Taboms are also known as the founders of the First Scissors House in 1854, the first tailoring shop in the country, which had amongst other activities, the task to provide the Ghanaian Army with uniforms. Proof of these skills is without any doubt Dan Morton, another Tabom and one of the most famous tailors nowadays in Accra.\n\nIn Ghana, the de Souza family can be found around Osu, Kokomele and other parts of the Greater Accra region and South Ghana. Sekondi-Takoradi and Cape Coast are also other bases. Almost all of them remained along the coastal regions of South Ghana. However, it is very common to see a De Souza, a Wellington, a Benson, a Pereria, a Palmares, a Nelson, an Azumah, Amorin, Da Costa, Santos, De Medeiros, Nunoo, Olympio, Maslieno, Maselino (a changed version of 'Maslieno' by the late Rev. Canon Seth Nii Adulai Maselino ((1919 - 1994)) whose parents originated from Maslieno House in Adabraka, Accra) and other Afro-Brazilians in Ghana speaking perfect Ga-Adangbe language, Ewe language and Akan language.\n\nBecause they were welcomed by the Ewe people, Ga-Adangbe people and Akan people and received by their kings as personal guests, the Taboms received lands in privileged locations, in places that are nowadays very well known estates, like Asylum Down, the area near to the central train station and around the Accra Brewery Company. In those areas, the mango trees planted by them bear silent witnesses to their presence. In the estate of North Ridge there is a street called “Tabom Street”, which is a reminder of the huge plantations that they formerly had there. Some of the Taboms live nowadays in James Town, where the first house built and used by them as they arrived in South Ghana is located. It is called the \"Brazil House\" and can be found in a short street with the name “Brazil Lane”. Because of their agricultural skills, they started plantations of mango, cassava, beans and other vegetables. They brought also skills such as irrigation techniques, architecture, carpentry, blacksmithing, gold smithing, tailoring, amongst others, which certainly improved the quality of life of the whole community.\n\nNowadays the Taboms are completely integrated in the Ghanaian society and are a part of the \nGa-Adangbe People, Ewe People and Akan People.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "647279", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=647279", "title": "Technosexual", "text": "Technosexual\n\nTechnosexual is an individual who either:\n\n\nAs with the metrosexual, companies have tried to promote the concept of the technosexual in order to sell products. Calvin Klein went as far as trademarking the term \"technosexual\" in 2005.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3653785", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3653785", "title": "Tepoztopilli", "text": "Tepoztopilli\n\nThe tepoztopilli was a common front-line weapon of the Aztec military. The tepoztopilli was a pole-arm, and to judge from depictions in various Aztec codices it was roughly the height of a man, with a broad wooden head about twice the length of the users' palm or shorter, edged with razor-sharp obsidian blades which were deeply set in grooves carved into the head, and cemented in place with bitumen or plant resin as an adhesive. This made the weapon vaguely similar to the \"macuahuitl\" or \"macana\", however it had a much smaller cutting edge and a longer handle. This gave the weapon a superior reach, but blows had to be more carefully executed. \n\nHalfway between a halberd and a spear, the tepoztopilli was equally useful for slashing and thrusting. Conquistador Bernal Díaz del Castillo mentions that on one occasion his armour was pierced by an Aztec lance and that only his thick cotton underpadding saved his life. \nThe last authentic tepoztopilli was destroyed in a fire in 1884 in the Armería Real in Madrid where it was housed.\n"}
{"id": "25132719", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25132719", "title": "Vallader dialect (Romansh)", "text": "Vallader dialect (Romansh)\n\nVallader () is a variety of the Romansh language spoken in the Lower Engadine valley (\"Engiadina Bassa\") of southeast Switzerland, between Martina and Zernez. It is also used as a written language in the nearby community of Val Müstair, where Jauer is spoken. In 2008, schools in the Val Müstair switched from Vallader to Rumantsch Grischun as their written language, but switched back to Vallader in 2012, following a referendum.\n\nThe name of the dialect is derived from \"val\" 'valley'. It is the second most commonly spoken variety of Romansh, with 6,448 people in the Lower Engadine valley (79.2%) naming Romansh as a habitually spoken language in the census of 2000.\n\nRomansh can be separated into two dialect groups: Rhine dialects (Sursilvan, Sutsilvan and Surmiran) and Engadine dialects (Vallader and Puter).\n\nA variety of Vallader was also used in Samnaun until the late 19th century, when speakers switched to Bavarian. The last speaker of the Romansh dialect of Samnaun, Augustin Heiß, died in 1935.\n\nFor a long period of time, the oldest written form Puter held much prestige with its name. It was used as the language of the aristocratic Engadine tourist region near St. Moritz (San Murezzan). It was used most widely in the 19th century. Vallader has since become more important.\n\nThe dialect Jauer, is actually a variety of Vallader spoken in Val Müstair. It is almost only spoken there, and is virtually never written.\n\nPuter and Vallader are sometimes referred to as one specific variety known as Ladin, a term which can also refer to the closely related language in Italy's Dolomite mountains also known as Ladin.\n\nThey are also considered Engadine dialects, since they are spoken in the area of the Engadines.\n\nVallader shares many traits with the Puter dialect spoken in the Upper Engadine. On the lexical level, the two varieties are similar enough to have a common dictionary. Puter and Vallader share the rounded front vowels [y] and [ø], which are not found in other Romansh varieties. These sounds make written Ladin easily distinguishable through the numerous occurrences of the letters and .\n\nIn Vallader, the clitics are almost always well preserved, and there are no clustered forms that are known. On the other hand, Puter still preserves the clitic system completely.\n\nCompared to Puter, Vallader spelling reflects the pronunciation more closely.\n\nAnother difference is that one class of verbs end in \"-ar\" in Vallader, whereas the ending in Puter is \"-er\". The differences in verb conjugation are more divergent however, as can be seen the simple present of \"avair\" 'to have':\n\nIn Vallader, impersonals are formed using a third person singular reflexive verbal clitic. This is an important detail derived most likely from Italian or Spanish. This is also possible in Puter.\n\nVallader, being one of the five dialects, is mainly used in the Val Müstair and Engadine regions. The name comes from the term \"valley\" so it's only right that it is found in these regions full of valleys.\n\nAs you can see on the map provided below, Vallder is used much more widely to the North East of Switzerland. This distinct difference in blue shades shows the areas of Upper and Lower Engadines. The Lower Engadines, as the chart suggests, speaks Puter, which shares many common features with Vallader. In the Upper Engadines, Vallader is spoken.\n\nA larger issue at hand for the minority Vallader speakers is not only the use of Bavarian, High and Swiss German, but also the division of Romansh. This is especially evident for speakers of the Vallader dialect; since Puter is so closely related in both location and language, it makes the slight differences more cumbersome.\n\nWhile written Vallader is standardized, speakers employ local dialects in oral use. Differences in speech often allow people to pinpoint the home village of another speaker. For example, the word \"eu\" 'I' can be pronounced as [], [], [], [], [] and [], depending on the local dialect.\n\nThe dialect of the Val Müstair, Jauer, is distinguished through the ending \"-er\" instead of \"-ar\" for verbs of the first conjugation, and by the placement of stress on the penultimate syllable of these verbs. In addition, stressed /a/ is diphthongized in Jauer. All three traits can be seen in the verb 'to sing', which is \"chantàr\" in Vallader but \"chàunter\" in Jauer.\n\nIt is an important fact to keep in mind that Jauer is almost exclusively spoken. Vallader is not only the preferred written form, but it is also the most widely used one.\n\nAs stated earlier, in 2008, schools in the Val Müstair switched from Vallader to Rumantsch Grischun as their written language. When they switched back to Vallader in 2012 following a referendum, it showed that Vallader is in danger but is still without a doubt seen as a (if not the most) reliable language, especially for writing. Since Jauer is used almost solely for speech, this allows more room for Vallader to exist as more of an entity in the world of writing.\n\nIt is the second most widely used variety of Romansh, with 6,448 people in the Lower Engadine valley (79.2%) naming Romansh as a habitually spoken language in the census of 2000. This area is the main driving force behind keeping Vallader relevant.\n\nThe first written document in Vallader is the psalm book \"Vn cudesch da Psalms\" by Durich Chiampell from the year 1562.\n\nOther important authors who have written in Vallader include Peider Lansel, Men Rauch, Men Gaudenz, Andri and Oscar Peer, Luisa Famos, Cla Biert, Leta Semadeni and Rut Plouda-Stecher.\n\nThe songwriter Linard Bardill also employs Vallader in addition to German and Rumantsch Grischun.\n\nThe fable The Fox and the Crow by Jean de La Fontaine in Vallader, as well as a translation into English, the similar-looking but noticeably different-sounding dialect Puter, the Jauer dialect, and Rumantsch Grischun.\n\n"}
{"id": "6142104", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6142104", "title": "Westhoughton Mill", "text": "Westhoughton Mill\n\nWesthoughton Mill or Rowe and Dunscough's Mill, in Mill Street in Westhoughton, near Bolton in the historic county of Lancashire, was the site of a Luddite arson attack in 1812. The mill was built in 1804 by Richard Johnson Lockett, a Macclesfield man who lived at Westhoughton Hall. He leased the mill to Thomas Rowe of Manchester in 1808.\n\nDuring 1811 and 1812 Luddites had been attacking powered mills throughout the English North and Midlands to such an effect that the government in February 1812 passed the Frame Breaking Act making the damaging of powered looms punishable by death. Skilled weavers lost their livelihoods when production moved from a domestic system to new manufactories causing severe hardship and unrest among the workers. Unemployed weavers joined the Luddites believing their only hope was to destroy the machines. The government repressed rebellion by punishing offenders severely. In 1812 Luddite disorder around Manchester reached its peak.\n\nOn Friday 28 April, a large crowd of weavers and mechanics gathered in Westhoughton with the intention of destroying the power looms in Rowe and Dunscough's Mill. The Scots Greys, deployed in Bolton by the government to quell unrest, were sent for but all was quiet when the contingent arrived and they returned to their quarters. Soon after they left, the factory and its contents were set alight and when the military returned the premises were destroyed and the culprits had disappeared. Some rioters gathered in the village in the evening demanding food and drink or money and the military was recalled and the Riot Act was read. Information about the ringleaders was collected and 24 men were arrested and sent for trial at Lancaster Assizes. Some were discharged but, \"for having wilfully and maliciously set on fire and burnt a Weaving Mill, Warehouse and Loom Shop in the possession of Thomas Rowe and Thomas Dunscough at Westhoughton\", Job Fletcher, James Smith, Thomas Kerfoot and Abraham Charlson, were sentenced to death and hanged and nine men were transported. After the Luddite act, manufacturers avoided the township until Chadwick's Silk Mill was built in the early 1850s. Westhoughton Hall was attacked at the same time.\n\nThe mill was rebuilt after the attack and converted to a corn mill, until it was bought in 1840 by Peter Ditchfield, a cotton manufacturer who restored it to a cotton mill. On his death in 1854 the mill, by then employing some 40 people, passed to his son, Peter Ditchfield, jnr. After many years of spinning cotton and making flock, production ceased and the mill stood empty. It was eventually demolished in 1912 and the site is still (2017) a vacant lot.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1942887", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1942887", "title": "Yaka people", "text": "Yaka people\n\nThe Yaka are an African ethnic group found in southwestern Democratic Republic of the Congo, with Angola border to their west. They number about 300,000 and are related to the Suku people. They live in the forest and savanna region between the Kwango River and the Wamba River. Yaka is also the surname that is used in South Africa and Swaziland, including its clan-name called Dlunge.\n\nTheir oral tradition states that they migrated northwest into their current location from the Lunda plateau region, in the 16th century. The verb kuyaka (The noun \"bayaka\" derives kongo to catch flying objects). The Bayaka were those Kongo people said: \"Bawu, bayaka mbele; bayaka mpunza \"(Translation: They catch the cutlasses (that the enemies throw at them), they catch the arrows flying). A term used initially to describe them.\n\nThe colonial Portuguese called them \"Jagas\", and their name may be derived from the Kikongo verb \"yaka\" which means \"grab, take, hold\" referring to the invaders of the kingdom of Kongo. In the 17th century and onwards, the Portuguese used the word \"Jagas\" (English: Yakas) to refer to any rootless and vagabond peoples, even if peaceful, in their colonies.\n\nKing Kasongo led the exodus of the Lunda westward around the 17th century, the most organized expedition towards the conquest of the Kwango region in the kingdom of Kongo. Some Lunda had already preceded this. These Lunda conquerors were endowed with three major qualities: diplomacy, sociability and The organization, which enabled them to found the Yaka kingdom in the seventeenth century, harmoniously integrating the pre-established Kongo nations. The Lunda used this \"soft power\", more than fighting, to favour the union of the two peoples, Lunda and Kongo, under the kingdom Yaka. Ethnologists and sociologists unanimously agree that, throughout Belgian colonial history, this kingdom was one of the best organized and Especially the most resistant to Western penetration.\n\nThe name Yaka is a title that the Kongo gave to their warriors. Upon the arrival of Lunda, the kingdom of Kongo was already weakened by Portuguese incursions. Thus, the resistance that the Lunda find in the Kwango region is that of the isolated local tribes Kongo, including the Mbala, Tsamba, Hungana, Pindi, Ngongo, rather than that of a United Kongo kingdom. The Lunda, these \"biluwa\", or foreigners, which Nothing resisted on their passage, capable of catching bullets and arrows, were also called \"Iluwa\" (foreigners) or Bayaka (Catchers of the balls and the arrows). Both the Lunda that arrived and the kongo warriors had similar traits, hence the exact titles being given to them.\n\nThe Lunda, who had an interest in integrating into their political organization the local tribes who had not fled the invasion or who did not want to fight, had in turn adopted the identity \"Yaka\" which, in addition to conferring on them a title of nobility of the \"invincible\", integrated them better In their new country.\n\nThey had also gradually adopted the Kongo language (hence the Kiyaka language being spoken amongst them, an offshoot of Kikongo). Much more, Lunda chiefs married Kongo women. The offspring identified themselves as Yaka rather than Lunda. Thus, the Yaka appellation had established itself as a generic identity Of the Lunda and Kongo inhabiting territories area under the authority of the Kiamvu Kasongo-Lunda, namely the territories of Kasongo-Lunda, Kenge and Popokabaka.\n\nThe Lunda of Nzofu later came in the territory of Kahemba retain the Lunda identity and language. As for the territory of Feshi, they emigrated there in the middle of the 18th century from the Basuku, a group of Kongo, who disassociated themselves from the power of Kiamvu Kasongo-Lunda and whose leader \"Meni Kongo\" refused to submit to the authority of the latter. Some other Kongo groups: the Mbala, Tsamba, Hungana, Pindi and Ngongo, etc. Had already emigrated to the Kwilu, leaving behind them, brothers and sisters who, together with the Lunda, composed the Yaka kingdom. The five territories that make up Kwango are therefore a binational space, Kongo and Lunda.\n\nThe reconciliation is thus the end of the wars of conquest between Kongo ethnic groups and the Lunda in Kwango was sealed by a ceremony and a particular ceremony in which the chief Meni Kongo representing Of the original Tsamba clans of Feshi and the Lunda chiefs were to share the parrot, dog and cat raw meat. At the end of this ceremony, the representatives of two nations buried their war weapons and promised peaceful coexistence forever. The Kongo and the Lunda of Kwango have lived in perfect harmony since the beginning of the 19th century.\n\nWhen the administration of Leopold II arrived in Kwango after their establishment in Bas-Congo, Kwango Was an organized kingdom; The power of Kiamvu Kasongo-Lunda was legitimized and respected by all the peoples, Kongo and Lunda. It was also well represented on the whole kingdom that stretched from Kasongo-Lunda to Popokabaka through the present territory of Kenge. Peace between the Bayaka (Kongo and Lunda under the power of the Kiamvu Kasongo-Lunda), their brothers, the Basuku of Meni Kongo in the Feshi and the Lunda of Nzofu in Kahemba.\n\nIt was therefore not by default of hospitality that the agents of the Belgian administration came up against a refusal in Kwango. They represented a power that could not coexist easily with the existing political power.\n\nAccording to Crawford Young, the Lunda empires in Kwango and Katanga had understood that colonial occupation was an aggression to repel and fight. The other groups, apart from a few scattered revolts including that of Bapendé, had behaved as if the exploration and occupation of their spaces by strangers were normal. (C. Young, 1965: 295-6).\n\nBy the year 1890, a skilled administrator named Dhanis came to negotiate his acceptance with King \"Kiamvu\" Tsiimba Nkumbi. It was not even with his replacement of the name of Dussart who sought to impose the Leopold administration on Kwango even by force\". It was then that in 1892 and 1893 there were two wars ranked between the two armies, that of the Kiamvu Tsiimba Nkumbi and that of the Leopoldian administration in which there were considerable losses on both sides. If the principal Belgian agent perished in the first war of 1892, the one which followed in 1893 with a greater reinforcement of soldiers of the public force saw the assassination of the Kiamvu Tsiimba Nkumbi.\" It was also the beginning of the destabilization of the kings, but not that of the kingdom or the resistance. In fact, the kings who were enthroned after this revolting event showed themselves more intransigent with respect to submission to the power of whites. Thus, faced with repression, they had the choice either to go into exile with their brothers, the Lunda of Angola, or to undergo forced relegation to Banningville or elsewhere. Mulombo kings Désiré Nkulu and Chief Munene Nkenzi were deported respectively, while the Kiamvu Muana Koko Kodia Puanga found refuge in Angola in 1915. After the two bloody wars of 1892 and 1893, when the Kwango was militarily armed, the resistance assumed passive form. This took many forms, ranging from the subtle violence by leopard men \"Masiona\" to civil disobedience and the refusal to serve any power of oppression, to participate in any enterprise or to obey any colonial injunction. It was this passive resistance that continued throughout the colonial era until independence. When in 1908, Leopold II ceded the Congo to Belgium, the colonial administration, to whom the narrative of the resistance Yaka had already been made, tried to occupy the Kwango by force, but she stumbled upon the civil resistance whose main manifestation was the refusal of cooperation with the colonial agents. Even after the assassination in 1893 of the Kiamvu Tsiimba Nkumbi, under which open resistance was waged, the Bayaka continued civic resistance. Because of the unfortunate incidents of the conflict, and after 2 years of colonial military siege, the colonial mission in Kwango was abandoned. By way of punishment and fear\n\nThat the Kwango hindered the colonial work and wished to overthrows the sovereignty of the Congo, in the hands of the colonial administration, which in turn forced to administration to put the Kwango on hold; Which meant that no development project could be undertaken. This did not prevent the Bayaka associating themselves with nationalists message of Lumumba, due to their strong presence in Kinshasa, only a century later, they heavily precipitate in the movement of independence, especially as the party that brought them together \"LUKA \"(The Kwangolese Union for Freedom and Independence) which had as its main objective the independence. The Bayaka, by their strong mobilization in Kinshasa, contributed strongly to the events that precipitated the independence of the Congo in 1959 - 1960.\n\nIf the Bayaka have a history so glorious, where are the disparagement they are subjected to? The denigration of the Bayaka was originally the work of the colonial agents. The latter, after having abandoned the Kwango, were to create the division to better establish their authority in neighbouring Bas-Congo and Kwilu. Which Then opened the propaganda of Bayaka, warriors and savages, as they did not accept western civilization. This became the means of dividing and reigning. This is how, from a colonial propaganda, stereotypes stick to the identity of Yaka, especially in Kinshasa, the capital, where all the tribes of the Congo eventually meet. Nevertheless, as can be seen in the writings of sociologists And Belgian ethnologists, the colonial administration recognized the organization and dynamism of the Bayaka. As all slanderous statements are made away from Kwango, or whispering, the Bayaka have imperturbably pursued their traditional activities in all areas: art, craftsmanship, construction, hunting, fishing and agriculture.\n\nThe Bayaka fell victim to their exceptional resistance to colonial oppression and exploitation. Those of the Kwango, have among other things, resisted fiercely efforts of \"pacification\" of the Force Publique and Leopold II’s administration.\n\nThe Yaka people are a matrilineal society that includes patrilineal lineage as family name. Their villages have chiefs, who are recognized by the Congo government as a political office.\n\nTheir Traditional Religion has the concept of \"Ndzambyaphuungu\", or a Creator God who resides in the sky, but this creator is not a part of their celebrations or rituals. The religious practices and ceremonies are instead directed towards the \"Bambuta\" or the spirits of the ancestors, and these are also part of healing dances during illnesses.\nThe Yaka farm cassava, sweet potatoes, and corn as staple source of food, and supplement this with fish and game meat. They have traditionally hunted with the help of hunting dogs. In contemporary times, they are also migrant workers in urban areas.\n\nThe Yaka are notable for their arts and handicrafts. They make statues, portraits, baskets, carved objects, masks, tools for cooking, building, hunting, fishing or entertaining with additions of instruments such as drums. Their masks are bulky, distinctive with upturned noses and eyes shaped in the form of globules. These masks were frequently used in various Traditional Religion ceremonies. Their sculptures called \"Mbwoolo\" and their carved slit drum called \"Mukoku\" are regionally famous and used in ritual dances.\n\n"}
