{"id": "56738817", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56738817", "title": "1924 Women's Olympiad", "text": "1924 Women's Olympiad\n\nThe 1924 Women's Olympiad (formally called \"Women’s International and British Games\", French \"Grand meeting international féminin\") was the first international competition for women in track and field in the United Kingdom. The tournament was held on 4 August 1924 in London, United Kingdom.\n\nAfter the successful first 1922 Women's World Games in Paris and the three Women's Olympiads (1921 Women's Olympiad, 1922 Women's Olympiad and 1923 Women's Olympiad) in Monaco the interest for women's sports also grew internationally. In 1922 the \"Women's Amateur Athletic Association\" (WAAA) was founded in the UK: the WAAA organised the first official British women championships in track and field (WAAA Championships) on 18 August 1923 at the Oxo Sports Ground in Downham outside London. In the US the \"Amateur Athletic Union\" (AAU) organised the first official American women championships in track and field on 29 September 1923 at Weequahic Park in Newark, New Jersey.\n\nThe 1924 Women's Olympiad was organised in cooperation with the newspapers News of the World, Sporting Life and Daily Mirror in cooperation with the WAAA and the Fédération Sportive Féminine Internationale (FSFI) under chairwoman Alice Milliat.\n\nThe games were attended by participants from 8 nations: Belgium, Canada (exhibition events only), Czechoslovakia, France, Italy, Switzerland, the United Kingdom and the USA (exhibition events only). The tournament was a huge promotion for women's sports.\n\nThe athletes competed in 12 events: running (100 yards, 250 metres, 1000 metres, Relay race 4 x 110 yards and 4 x 220 yards and 120 yards, Racewalking 1000 metres, high jump, long jump, discus throw, shot put and javelin. The tournament also held exhibition events in cycling (two-thirds of a mile bicycle sprint), netball and gymnastics.\n\nThe multi-sport event was held at \"Stamford Bridge\" in Fulham in southwest London. The games attended an audience of 25,000 spectators.\n\nAlmost all medals went to athletes from France and the United Kingdom.\n\nDuring the games 7 world records were set: Mary Lines in hurdling 120 yd and running 250 m, Edith Trickey in running 1000 m, Albertine Regel in walking 1000 m, Elise van Truyen in high jump, Violett Morris in discus and Louise Groslimond in javelin. Poorly performed measuring however led to that only 2 records, Trickey in running 1000 metres and Regel in walking 1000 metres, later were ratified.\n\nResults in each event:\n\n\nThe tournament was a huge promotion for women's sports, a follow-up was held in 1925 (”Daily Mirror Trophy”) also at Stamford Bridge. In 1926 the second regular Women's World Games were held at Gothenburg.\n\n"}
{"id": "25423988", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25423988", "title": "2010 Austrian Figure Skating Championships", "text": "2010 Austrian Figure Skating Championships\n\nThe 2010 Austrian Figure Skating Championships () were the Austrian Figure Skating Championships of the 2009-2010 figure skating season. Skaters competed in the disciplines of men's singles, ladies singles, and ice dancing on the senior level for the title of national champion of Austria. The results of the national championships were used to choose the Austrian teams to the 2010 World Figure Skating Championships and the 2010 European Figure Skating Championships.\n\nThe 2010 Championships took place between 10 December and 12 December 2009 in the Tiroler Wasserkraftarena in Innsbruck. The Junior-level Championships were held immediately prior to the Senior-level championships in the same location and arena, between 8 December and 10 December. The senior compulsory dance was the Tango Romantica and the junior was the Westminster Waltz.\n\n \n \n\n \n\n\n"}
{"id": "4586564", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4586564", "title": "ANZ National Stadium", "text": "ANZ National Stadium\n\nThe ANZ National Stadium (known as ANZ Stadium) is a multi-purpose stadium in Suva, Fiji.\n\nANZ Stadium is used primarily for rugby league, rugby union and football matches, and features a track as well as a pitch suitable for worldwide competition. It has undercover seating for 4,000 spectators, and concrete and grass embankments that increase the capacity to 15,000 people.\n\nOriginally called Buckhurst Park, the stadium was constructed in 1951 on sixteen hectares of land given by William H. B. Buckhurst in 1948.\n\nThe stadium was first renovated in 1978–1979 for the Sixth South Pacific Games. Work commenced in April 1978 with the demolition of the grandstand, which had lost its roof during Hurricane Bebe. The stadium was renamed National Stadium upon reopening in 1979.\n\nA second renovation took place in 2012, sponsored by ANZ Fiji, Fiji's largest bank, at a cost of FJD $17.5 million. The stadium reopened in March 2013, with a rugby union game between the Fiji national team and Classic All Blacks.\nThe 2012–2013 renovation also included the park and playing grounds behind the ANZ National Stadium, which are known as Bidesi Park and Buckhurst Park, retaining the stadium's original name. The Buckhurst and Bidesi grounds include three pitches primarily used for training and competition in rugby, rugby league, football, and cricket, and a small stadium and synthetic training track. Buckhurst Park was the site of the National Baseball Diamond used in the 2003 South Pacific Games.\n\n"}
{"id": "1908011", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1908011", "title": "Al Lang Stadium", "text": "Al Lang Stadium\n\nAl Lang Stadium is a 7,500-seat sports stadium in downtown St. Petersburg, Florida that is the current home pitch of the Tampa Bay Rowdies of the United Soccer League (USL). It was used almost exclusively as a baseball park for over 60 years. However, since the Rowdies moved to the facility in 2011, it has been reconfigured to better host soccer.\n\nAl Lang Stadium was built in 1947 at the site of an older facility known as St. Petersburg Athletic Park. It is named in honor of Al Lang, a former mayor of St. Petersburg who was instrumental in bringing minor league and spring training baseball to the city in the early 20th century. The ballpark was reconstructed in 1976 and was extensively renovated before the Tampa Bay Devil Rays began using it as their first spring training venue in 1998. The Devil Rays / Rays were the last of a long series of Major League Baseball clubs to conduct spring training and host an affiliated minor league team at Al Lang Stadium and St. Petersburg's previous ballparks. Before the Rays, tenants included the New York Yankees, St. Louis Cardinals, New York Mets, and the Baltimore Orioles, amongst others. The stadium hosted its last spring training game in March 2008 and was the site of occasional amateur and exhibition baseball for the next several years.\n\nThe Tampa Bay Rowdies became the primary tenant in 2011, and Al Lang Stadium was incrementally modified into a better soccer venue over each of the following off-seasons. Since October 2014, an agreement between the club and the city of St. Petersburg has made the stadium a soccer-only facility, and the Rowdies' ownership conducted an extensive renovation in early 2015. In 2016, Rowdies' majority owner Bill Edwards proposed greatly expanding the stadium's capacity to 18,000 seats as part of a bid to move his club into Major League Soccer (MLS). In May 2017, a local referendum passed authorizing the city of St. Petersburg to negotiate a long-term lease with the team to help make the project possible.\n\nIn October 2018, the Rowdies were purchased by the Tampa Bay Rays, which gave the baseball club control of Al Lang Stadium through the transfer of the existing lease with the city of St. Petersburg.\n\nProfessional baseball grew throughout the United States at the beginning of the twentieth century, and clubs sought additional facilities to accommodate their spring training. Al Lang, a businessman in St. Petersburg, Florida, saw a huge potential to attract northeastern teams to his city to take advantage of the warm weather during the early months of the year. Lang and city officials created an incentives package that covered teams' travel expenses and other amenities, which drew in the city's first spring training tenant, the St. Louis Browns, in 1914. The club trained at Coffee Pot Park, a small ballpark located beside Coffee Pot bayou about a mile north of the current site of Al Lang Stadium. Subsequently, other Major League Baseball clubs such as the Philadelphia Phillies and the New York Yankees came to St. Petersburg for spring training, and Lang continued promoting the city when he was elected Mayor of St. Petersburg in 1916. After his term, Lang devoted his life to building a successful connection between Florida and baseball, and was instrumental in marketing St. Petersburg as a desirable sports site.\n\nWith Al Lang's support, the city replaced Coffee Pot Park with St. Petersburg Athletic Park (also known as Waterfront Park) on the present site of Al Lang Stadium in 1923. It served as the spring training home for Major League Baseball teams the Boston Braves and the New York Yankees until after World War II, hosting baseball greats such as Babe Ruth, Lou Gehrig, Joe DiMaggio, and Stan Musial.\n\nIn 1947, the city of St. Petersburg demolished Waterfront Park and constructed a modern baseball park on the same site. It was named Al Lang Stadium in honor of his many years of service to the city and his continual promotion of baseball in the area. The St. Louis Cardinals and New York Yankees shared the new ballpark in its first spring training season.\n\nThe stadium underwent a major reconstruction in 1976, expanding its capacity to 7,227. It was renovated again in 1996; the project cost $640,117 and included disability accommodations. When the expansion Tampa Bay Devil Rays began using the park for spring training in 1998, local utility Florida Power purchased the park's naming rights for $150,000 per year, and the city rechristened it Florida Power Park at Al Lang Field. When Florida Power was acquired by Progress Energy in 2003, the stadium's name was changed to Progress Energy Park. The naming rights agreement expired in 2011, and the facility's name reverted to Al Lang Stadium.\n\nAl Lang Stadium's grandstand faces the southeast, giving almost every seat a view of the St. Petersburg harbor and Tampa Bay beyond the left field wall. The stadium is constructed primarily of reinforced concrete, and the public portions of the facility include very few enclosed and air conditioned areas. A unique concrete cantilevered overhang shades many of the grandstand seats from the afternoon sun, and the stadium's waterfront location is often cooled by a sea breeze. During the 2015 renovation, the Rowdies replaced all of the seats in the grandstand, refreshed fan areas under the grandstand, and extensively updated many of the club and gameday operation areas. In addition, a portion of the outfield wall was removed and two banks of uncovered bleachers installed in its place, adding several hundred seats on the sideline of the soccer pitch opposite the grandstand.\n\nAl Lang stadium has hosted may thousand major league spring training, minor league, college, high school, international. and exhibition baseball games over the decades.\n\nAl Lang Stadium was originally built as a spring training and minor league venue and served that purpose from 1947 until 2008. Spring training tenants included the New York Yankees, St. Louis Cardinals, New York Giants, New York Mets, and Baltimore Orioles. Minor league tenants included the St. Petersburg Saints of the Florida International League and the St. Petersburg Cardinals of the Florida State League. Al Lang Stadium's final minor league tenant was the Class A St. Petersburg Devil Rays, who last played at the stadium in 2000.\n\nIn 1998, the expansion Tampa Bay Devil Rays began using the stadium for spring training. Their regular season home at Tropicana Field is approximately one mile west, making the Devil Rays the first major league team to train and play regular season games in the same city in almost 90 years. In 2006, the Rays, seeking to expand their fan base across the Tampa Bay area, decided to move their spring training operations to Charlotte Sports Park in Port Charlotte, Florida, about 80 miles south of St. Petersburg. They played their last spring training ballgame at Al Lang Stadium on March 28, 2008.\n\nBaseball in the Tampa Bay area has a long history, and amateur baseball has long been played in Al Lang Stadium and its predecessors in downtown St. Petersburg. Many different tournament, exhibition, practice, and regular season games have been held there, with the University of South Florida St. Petersburg club baseball program the last amateur team to call Al Lang Stadium home during their inaugural season of 2014.\n\nThe 1997 and 2002 Atlantic Coast Conference Baseball Tournaments were played at the venue, as was the 2000 Conference USA Baseball Tournament. From 2010 to 2014, Al Lang Stadium hosted the St. Petersburg International Baseball Series, which involved international teams, national teams, and local college and high school teams along with minor league squads from various major league organizations that were already in the area for spring training. The event moved to other local venues in 2015.\n\nAfter the Tampa Bay Rowdies moved to Al Lang Stadium in 2011, the playing surface and seating arrangement had to be constantly alternated between baseball and soccer configurations, especially in the spring. The resulting poor condition of the turf led to complaints by Rowdies management and, in October 2014, an agreement that baseball would not be played at the facility.\n\nIn 2011, the soccer team FC Tampa Bay of the North American Soccer League announced it would move to Al Lang Stadium from George M. Steinbrenner Field in Tampa. This ended three years in which the stadium had no long-term tenant. Al Lang Stadium subsequently underwent minor renovations to convert it into a soccer facility, with temporary seats added on the grass along the sidelines to increase capacity. The team played its first game at Al Lang on April 9, 2011, and later changed its name to the Tampa Bay Rowdies, after the historical team that had played from 1975 to 1993.\n\nOn October 27, 2012, the Tampa Bay Rowdies became the 2012 NASL Champions by winning the two-leg Soccer Bowl against the Minnesota Stars at Al Lang Stadium. It was the first time that a major championship was held at the site. In 2013, the Rowdies signed a lease extension keeping the team at Al Lang Stadium through the 2016 season.\n\nIn 2014, Rowdies majority owner Bill Edwards publicly complained that the city of St. Petersburg and the St. Petersburg Baseball Commission, which managed Al Lang Stadium, had not kept up with maintenance on the grandstand, the locker rooms, or the playing field. This was partially due to the fact that although the Rowdies have been the only regular tenant of Al Lang Stadium since 2011, it was regularly used for exhibition and amateur baseball during the spring, necessitating that the playing surface be converted for soccer use by removing the pitcher's mound and replacing the infield dirt with grass. The dispute resulted in the Rowdies filing a lawsuit against the St. Petersburg Baseball Commission in July 2014 claiming that the commission was not properly maintaining the \"dilapidated\" facility.\n\nThe issues were finally resolved in October 2014 when Edwards and the city of St. Petersburg brokered a deal that gave Edwards' Big 3 Entertainment company management control of Al Lang Stadium for the next four years. As part of the arrangement, the facility would no longer be used for baseball events, and Edwards agreed to complete $1.5 million in renovations as he sought to make Al Lang Stadium more soccer friendly.\n\nOn January 29, 2013 Major League Lacrosse announced that the 2012 MLL champions the Rochester Rattlers would face the Chesapeake Bayhawks for their season opener at Al Lang stadium. It would be the first time that the league would play there. Part of this game is an effort to evaluate the Tampa Bay Area, and the state of Florida in general, for an expansion team, after MLL held the All-Star game at FIU Stadium the previous year. It was supported by the St. Petersburg/Clearwater Sports Commission who want to affirm the city's brand as a world-class destination for sports tourism. The game was played on Saturday, April 27, 2013 in front of 3,940 people (a figure higher than half the league's average attendance), with Chesapeake winning, 17–14.\n\nIn 2015, Al Lang Stadium hosted the Halloween Rugby 7s, a rugby sevens tournament featuring eight teams: USA Falcons, USA Hawks, Canada, Argentina, Denver, New York City, Ohio and Utah.\n\nIn 2006, the Tampa Bay Rays announced plans to move their spring training home to Port Charlotte, about 80 minutes south of St. Petersburg, for the 2009 season. In November 2007, Rays President Matt Silverman introduced a plan to build a $450 million new Rays Ballpark at the Al Lang Stadium site that was to be ready for the 2012 baseball season. The plan failed to garner enough political support to move forward, and it was shelved in June 2008. Subsequently, the Rays began looking at other potential locations, and in May 2009, they announced that they would not seek to build a new facility in downtown St. Petersburg.\n\nIn 2013, the city of St. Petersburg began the process of creating a master plan for the waterfront area that includes Al Lang Stadium. Some of the proposals suggest replacing the entire stadium and surrounding parking areas with a soccer park complex with a new soccer-specific stadium. Rowdies owner Bill Edwards has stated that \"in a perfect world\", Al Lang Stadium would be replaced by an 18,000-seat publicly financed soccer stadium.\n\nIn March 2016, St. Petersburg mayor Rick Kriseman announced plans to hold a public referendum on extending the Rowdies' lease at Al Lang Stadium and to use tax dollars to help the club transform the facility into a \"city showpiece\". However, these plans were shelved in May 2016, possibly because it became known that Orlando City SC, the closest Major League Soccer (MLS) franchise, has territorial rights for the Tampa/St. Petersburg market, clouding the prospects for potentially bringing the Rowdies to MLS and delaying the need for a larger venue.\n\nIn December 2016, the Tampa Bay Rowdies launched another proposal entitled \"#MLS2StPete\" to join Major League Soccer as an expansion team. With the announcement, plans were released for an expansion and renovation of Al Lang Stadium to accommodate an 18,000-seat capacity financed by private funding. A May 2017 referendum authorized the city of St. Petersburg to negotiate a 25-year lease with the club if MLS picks the Rowdies as an expansion team.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "16312529", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16312529", "title": "Al Rayyan Beirut", "text": "Al Rayyan Beirut\n\nAl Rayyan is a Lebanese football club which plays in the second-division in Lebanon. It was relegated in 2007-08 season from the Lebanese Premier League by reaching 11th place.\n\nCorrect As of May 2010\n"}
{"id": "44309199", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44309199", "title": "Ali Mbaé Camara", "text": "Ali Mbaé Camara\n\nAli Mbaé Camara is a Comorian professional football player and football manager. From 2006 to 2007 and from October 2011 to December 2013 he coached Comoros national football team.\n\n"}
{"id": "3515449", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3515449", "title": "Argentina at the 1928 Summer Olympics", "text": "Argentina at the 1928 Summer Olympics\n\nArgentina competed at the 1928 Summer Olympics in Amsterdam, Netherlands. 81 competitors, all men, took part in 41 events in 12 sports.\n\nMen's Flyweight (– 50.8 kg)\n<br>\nMen's Heavyweight (+ 79.4 kg)\n\nSix cyclists, all men, represented Argentina in 1928.\n\n\n\n\n\nNine fencers, all men, represented Argentina in 1928. They won the bronze medal in the team foil event.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nFive sailors represented Argentina in 1928. It was the nation's debut in the sport.\n"}
{"id": "768932", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=768932", "title": "August 2004 in sports", "text": "August 2004 in sports\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4015846", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4015846", "title": "Baton twirling", "text": "Baton twirling\n\nBaton twirling is a art involving the manipulation of a metal rod and the performer's body to a coordinated routine. It is similar to rhythmic gymnastics or color guard (flag spinning).\n\nTwirling combines dance, agility, coordination, flexibility and often gymnastics while manipulating a single baton or multiple batons. A performance is typically accompanied by music. When judged, fundamental characteristics include the handling of the baton to create visual images, pictures, and patterns executed with dexterity both close in and around the body and the proper release of the baton into the air. The discipline requires the simultaneous blending of these fundamental characteristics, utilizing time and space to display both technical merit and artistic expression. There are multiple types of baton twirlers. Majorettes, twirl in a group for a high school or college with its marching band. A twirler may perform as part of a group which marches in a parade or in front of an audience. Competitive twirlers may compete solo or as part of a group. Twirlers start learning the skills as early as age 2, but usually in grade school age, although some begin as late as high school age.\n\nBaton twirling requires specific knowledge of how to manipulate the baton and where to hold the baton. The baton can be described as a rod, usually a lightweight metal such as aluminum, with weighted, resilient ends, typically rubber. The baton's rubber ends attach to the rod and can be replaced. On one end, there is a large tip that is called the ball. On the other end, there is a small tip simply called the tip. The baton is balanced slightly off center to allow for proper rolling. The rod can be one of several thicknesses. Thicker, heavier rods are better for rolling, while thinner ones are better for finger rolls. The rubber ends can have different designs or weights depending on the manufacturer. Additionally, Star Line is the most common manufacturer of batons. Common types are the star, tulip and simple round tips. The length is the baton from tip to tip should be one inch longer than the distance from the user's armpit to the tip of the user's middle finger. The baton is manipulated from three positions, depending on the trick: from the ball, one hand from the tip, and mostly from the center of the baton. The rod of the baton wrapped with tape, either for decoration or for added grip, using tape specially employed for that purpose. The tape can be anything from electrical tape to tennis tape.\n\nIn addition to twirling baton(s), twirlers are known for manipulating multiple pieces of equipment including fire baton(s), machetes, fire machetes, hoop baton, streamer, flag baton, swing baton, rifle, lighted baton, double flag baton, and sabers. All equipment that is used by twirlers of the NBTA, USTA, and WBTF are show quality pieces of equipment that are engineered to be easily manipulated in a twirling routine. Therefore, the rifle, sabre, and machetes are not real weapons, as they are props created specifically for twirling. However, fire batons are, in fact, real flaming batons. The twirler will soak the ends of the fire batons overnight in a flammable substance, commonly kerosene, tiki oil, or gasoline. After the ends have finished soaking, it is important that the twirler shakes off any excess liquid. Finally, the ends of the baton can be set on fire using a lighter. After the twirler has finished performing, the flames can be put out through tossing the baton very fast and hard or by placing it in a fire blanket. \n\nBaton twirling requires skillful coordination and extraordinary control of the human body. Additionally, it requires a great amount of flexibility in order to properly execute baton, dance, and gymnastics elements. Choreography for baton twirling is designed to promote expression of the body through dance and movement to create a demonstration of strength, flexibility, physical fitness, beauty, aesthetics, and harmony in coordination with the manipulation of the baton.rt />\n\nThe foundation of baton twirling is the thumb toss. This trick is accomplished from the middle of the baton. The baton is held in one hand at the waist. The baton is rolled over the thumb and a slight hand movement lifts it into the air. The thumb toss can be increased in difficultly with 1 or more spins done under the toss, cartwheels, front walkovers, illusions or many more tricks. The baton can be tosses from either hand, but proficiency in both hands is preferable. The baton can be caught blind behind the head, at the side, under a kick, under one or both legs or in an illusion. Other tosses include the open hand toss and flat spin toss.\n\nThe sport of baton twirling has many tricks common to all twirlers. The elbow roll is a common trick. Continuous elbow rolls go over one elbow, dip, go over the second elbow, dip at the back, and over the first elbow again. This process can keep going as long as the baton stays in motion. Other common tricks include fishtails, open throats, open neck rolls, mouth rolls and more.\n\nThe routines have a predictable pattern of organization, despite a unique organization of tricks based on ability. Typically, the twirler has an initial routine constructed in each type of routine as they are ready. That routine is changed over and over during the course of their career. In Basic March, the twirler places one hand on their left hip and cradles the baton in the other. The twirler lifts the leg up into a chair height bend leg and lowers the foot back to the ground to the beat of \"Stars and Stripes\". Strut is an expansion off of Basic March. It also counts the hitting of the foot off the ground based on the beat of \"Stars and Stripes\", but other dance moves w/ the coordinated baton are incorporated into its X pattern. Solo routines don't have a specific music or beat to follow. The twirler attempts to constantly improve the routine with greater consistent speed, difficult tricks and improved bodywork. The routine has specific sections from the vertical, horizontal, finger and roll sections. It can include a walk up and walk back with poses, but the walk can be a Tour Jete, leaps, skip, Step ball changes or a simple march. Modeling is completed in a T pattern with slow, graceful spins/turns. The routine can be done in a short/party/long dress or costume depending on contest rules. Modeling can also include an interview depending on the contest. Other routines can include 2 baton, 3 baton, flag baton, show routine or hoop. Pageants are a large part of competitive baton twirling. Basic Skills pageants are the introductory level where the contestant performs Basic March, Modeling and Solo. Beginner and Intermediate pageants include Modeling/Interview, Strut and Solo. Advanced pageants include Modeling/Interview, Show twirl, and solo.\n\nCurrently, Baton Twirlers perform at football games, basketball games, competitions, parades, and virtually anywhere where entertainment is needed. It is commonly known that after a twirling season has come to an end, each twirling company/studio will host a recital to showcase the talents obtained over the season. \n\nCompetitive solo twirlers in the United States compete through several organizations. These organization include United States Twirling Association, Twirling Unlimited, Twirltacular, National Baton Twirling Association and more. Each of these organizations have their own rules. The United States Twirling Association, USTA, offers competitive routines that are unique to this association only. Moreover, these routines include L military marching, 32 count presentation, rhythm twirl, freestyle, and show twirl. Twirling Unlimited, TU, has restrictions on number of turns and continuous elbow rolls in developmental levels, but they allow gymnastics moves. TU separates the age groups as 0-6, 7-8, 9-11, 12-14, 15+. The 0-6 and 7-8 age groups are combined for certain events. National Baton Twirling Association, NBTA, does not have developmental restrictions, but it does not permit gymnastics. NBTA age groups are 0-4, 0-6, 7-9, 10-12. 13-15, 16+. NBTA nations are called America's Youth on Parade, which has been held for 50 years. AYOP has been held at Notre Dame's Joyce Center for 46 years. The event allows the soloists and groups to qualify for world competition. AYOP is a week long event with a mixture of open events and pageants, which the twirler has to qualify for at Miss Majorette state/regional events. The solo events of both organizations are also divided into Novice, Beginner, Intermediate, Advanced, and Elite levels. Advancement is based on a set number of wins.\n\nBaton twirling started in Western Europe and Asia. It is thought it started at dance festivals where performers used knives, rifles, torches and sticks to twirl with and toss. The sport progressed into the armies of some countries which twirled with rifles during marches. When the army was parading, they added a rifle twirler to the front of the marchers. The rifle was then switched for a \"mace\". The mace was much larger than the batons of today and imbalanced. They are still used by some marching bands at parades nowadays. The mace bearer or \"drum major\" twirled the baton whilst leading the army or band. The maces were altered for easier twirling and now resemble the batons. They were given smaller ends of light rubber, made from hollow light metal and balanced to give accuracy to the twirler. It is thought it was the involvement of females (\"drum majorettes\") and the progression of twirling that prompted the lightening and balancing of the baton. The sport came to North America when Major Reuben Webster Millsaps created baton twirling when he established Millsaps College in Mississippi after the US Civil War.\n\nWhile many member countries have their own national organizations, at the world level, three governing bodies are recognized: \nthe World Baton Twirling Federation (WBTF), the World Twirling Association (WTA)/, and The Global Alliance of National Baton Twirling & Majorette Associations (NBTA)/. The WBTF and NBTA host World Championships and International Cup (WBTF), while the WTA continues to honor the origins of the sport with additional events that WBTF does not include. The WTA was founded in 1960, by champion baton twirler Victor Faber.\n\nEstablished in 1977, the World Baton Twirling Federation was formed to develop, encourage, and standardize the sport. In October 1979, the Federation representatives met in Paris, France to finalize all plans for the first World Championships, bringing together teams of twirlers from ten countries to compete in a spirit of healthy, athletic competition. The United States Twirling Association, Inc. hosted the first World Championships in Seattle, Washington in 1980. Each successive year, one member country has hosts the championships in August.\n\nCurrent member countries of the WBTF include: Australia, Belgium, Brazil, Canada, Catalonia (Spain), Croatia, England, France, Germany, Hungary, Ireland, Italy, Japan, Netherlands, Norway, Philippines, Scotland, Seychelles, Slovenia, South Africa, Sweden, Switzerland and the United States of America.\n\nCurrent member countries of the NBTA include: Belgium, Bulgaria, Canada, Croatia, Czech Republic, England, France, Germany, the Netherlands, Ireland, Italy, Norway, Romania, Russia, Scotland, Slovenia, Spain, Switzerland, Ukraine, and the United States of America. Under consideration are: Australia, Estonia, Japan, Slovenia, and South Africa.\n\nCompetitive baton twirling is classified by two factors, skill and age. The NBTA, USTA, and WBTF separate twirlers by their skill levels, which range from novice, beginner, intermediate, to advanced; advancement to the next skill level is determined through the number of first place wins that the twirler has accomplished against other twirlers.\nWins obtained with no competitors in said division typically do not count towards advancement. Next, the twirlers are classified by their age through a standard scale that is as follows: 0-6 7-9 10-12 13-15 16+. This classification scale ensures that the competition between twirlers in each division is fair. \n\nWhen competing, a twirlers attire will typically be a leotard or a skater dress that is embellished with sequins, rhinestones, fringe, and other ornate designs. Major brands of twirling costumes include Show-Off Inc., Kenerly Kreations, Sewstoppers, and Algy. Twirlers are judged on their attire during competition, especially in events such as best in costume, so it is important that they wear a costume that fits properly and looks good during competition. Footwear ranges from instep cougars, jazz shoes, to majorette boots. Typically, instep cougars are seen on both the competition floor and during practice. Jazz shoes are primarily used during competition, as the soft bottoms can easily be torn during practice. It is common to see the heels of jazz shoes covered in rhinestones. Majorette boots can be seen during competition; however, high school and college majorettes typically wear these on the football field and during other performances.\n\nOne of the most competitive titles in the twirling field, Miss Majorette, is a title that is given to the top baton twirlers of each state. As mentioned earlier, twirlers will be classified based on their skill and age, which allows for a Miss Majorette title in each rank. When competing for this title, twirlers will begin by competing in T or Circle T Modelling, Interview, Solo, and X- Strut. After a twirler has been named Miss Majorette of their state, they will advance to compete for the title of Miss Majorette of America in their division. \n\nEvery year, the ESPN Wide World of Sports hosts Twirlmania international championship competition at Walt Disney World. Competition is available for soloists, teams, high schools, colleges, and recreational groups of any age or gender. Some countries that have participated in the past include U.S, Japan, Russia, Australia, and England. Competing ranges from baton twirling to pompom and dance. Competitors also get to march in a Disney parade as well as participate in a fun, family oriented weekend. Awards range from trophies to plush stuffed animals to cash (up to $4,000) and gifts by sponsors. Some categories include Dance Line Team, Collegiate Team, Pom Pom Team, Drill Team, Basic & Military, and Miss Twirl Mania Pageant, to name a few.\n\nThe main events at the first World Baton Twirling Championships were Freestyle and Compulsory Moves. Two new events were introduced: Teams (1981) and Pairs (1993). In 2005, a Short Program replaced the Compulsory Moves for the Senior Men and Women's divisions. \n\nThe World Championships have the following events:\n\nTeams, pairs, trios, and show choir can be co-ed.\n\nFor several years, the powerhouse countries (France, Italy, Japan, and the United States) have dominated the world championships. In order to promote more events and other smaller countries' ability to have international champions, the International Cup was introduced. Athletes are categorized into B level athletes, A level athletes, and elite. The power house countries don't take B level athletes so as to the give the smaller countries an opportunity to have international champions. Because every country doesn't have dancetwirl as an event, and because of the variety within the freestyle event, the artistic twirl was introduced to replace freestyle and dancetwirl at the International Cup.\n\nSince 2005, the two competitions have been run concurrently over a week. In 2009, the competitions began running separately, with the International Cup falling on uneven years and the World Championships on even years. New events such as Freestyle and Pairs across different age levels and divisions were added to the International Cup.\n\nThe following cities have previously hosted the competitions:\nEvents and age divisions and levels may vary due to baton association.\n\nIn 1998, the WBTF introduced the Special Athlete's Award of Recognition for athletes that competed at 10+ World Championships. Not all are Champions.\n\n<ref>http://www.batontwirling.com/NBTA/Solo2.htm</ref\n\n"}
{"id": "47829274", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47829274", "title": "Boubacar Bagili", "text": "Boubacar Bagili\n\nBoubacar Bagili (born 7 December 1994) is a Mauritanian football player who currently plays for Algerian Ligue Professionnelle 1 club ACS Ksar and the Mauritanian national team.\n\n"}
{"id": "25309426", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25309426", "title": "CSU Neptun Constanța", "text": "CSU Neptun Constanța\n\nCSU Neptun Constanţa, formerly known as CS Tomis Constanţa, is a women's handball club from Constanţa, Romania.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "28464915", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28464915", "title": "Chatteris Cricket Ground", "text": "Chatteris Cricket Ground\n\nChatteris Cricket Ground is a cricket ground in Chatteris, Cambridgeshire. The first recorded match on the ground was in 1832, when Cambridge Town Club played the Marylebone Cricket Club in the ground's only first-class match. The ground was first used for Minor Counties Championship cricket when Cambridgeshire played Lincolnshire in 1967. From 1967 to 1971, the ground hosted 4 Minor Counties Championship matches, the last of which saw Cambridgeshire play Bedfordshire Chatteris CC was formed in 1879 and it is uncertain if the field used in 1832 is the same one currently used by the town club in Wenny Road.\n\n"}
{"id": "43757755", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43757755", "title": "Choruru", "text": "Choruru\n\nChoruru was first introduced on 14 October 2007 at the 'Oidemase! Yamaguchi Kokutai Jump Up Festa 2007'. His design features green antennae which have the shape of the first kanji character for Yamaguchi (山), which catch the abundant energy of the people and nature. His white face is the shape of the second kanji character for Yamaguchi (口), representing the prefecture's name on his head.\n\nThe character design was chosen from the 80 entries from a prefecture-wide design contest, with a proposal by Shunan city based design company Sansou Ltd being used. Although the design for Choruru was actually by Mitsuo Fukunaga, of Shunan city based PH Graphics who submitted the design through Sansou Ltd, when the character was officially announced it was accreddited to Sansou Ltd president Hirofumi Shigeoka. A civil trial was brought about by Fukunaga to clarify his position as the creator of Choruru, and in 2011 both parties reached a settlement in which Fukunaga was once again declared as Chorurus \"art director-cum-designer\". As a further point, due to the submission rules for the design contest, the copyright for Choruru belongs to the Oidemase Yamaguchi National Sports Festival Executive Committee.\n\nHis name was based on a modified word form from the Yamaguchi dialect ～ちょる（～している doing ~), and was selected from the 9,227 entries that were submitted during the open entry session from 14 October to 30 November, while his design was on show. His name was officially decided and announced as \"Choruru\" in issue 8 of the \"Oidemase! Yamaguchi Kokutai\" PR Brochure, published in July 2008.\n\nFrom 2008 onward, Choruru participated in a range of events across Yamaguchi prefecture in order to promote the National Sports Festival. Various types of promotional material, pamphlets and commemorative merchandise were made using Choruru's image, and even a song (Fight, Choruru!) and dance (Choruru Dance) were created for him. The total sales of related goods, including Choruru National Sports Festival pin badges, topped a ground breaking two hundred and eight million yen.\n\nWhen the Oidemase Yamaguchi National Sports Festival drew to a close, Choruru's role as the festival mascot also ended. However, from 1 November 2011 he was appointed as \"Head of the Oidemase Yamaguchi Tourism Advertising Department\", a role to continue the promotion of Yamaguchi prefecture as the mascot for the \"Oidemase Yamaguchi Year Tourism Exchange Campaign\". Though his role was only supposed to last the duration of the campaign, the then governor of Yamaguchi, Sekinari Nii, announced that there might be other opportunities for Choruru besides just tourism, suggesting that there was potential for Choruru to have a PR role in other campaigns.\n\nOn 13 September 2012 at the Yamaguchi Tourism Commission, Choruru's promotion to Yamaguchi Prefecture PR General Manager, a role not limited to the field of tourism but also to widen the appeal of Yamaguchi Prefecture, was recognised. The official appointment certificate was handed over on 11 October by then governor Shigetarō Yamamoto. It was also at this time that the commercial use for Choruru's character design became available without charge. At least 50 applications for commercial goods such as soft toys and sweets were made within the first month of availability, with applications coming with outside the prefecture from Hiroshima and Chiba prefectures.\n\nVoting for the 2012 Yuru-chara Grand Prix opened on 15 September 2012, with Choruru making his first entry into the competition on 20 September, successfully climbing to second place by early October. Even though he called for support by visiting the entrance of the Yamaguchi Prefectural Office, the Tokuyama Zoo in Shunan and so on, the gap between him and the top ranked yuru-chara, Barysan from Imabari city in Ehime, in terms of votes received was very large. As such, at an emergency press conference held on 19 October at the Yamaguchi Prefectural Office, as well as a declaration of determination for victory, it was announced that Choruru would visit each area of the prefecture on a promotional tour to call for support. When the final results were announced on 25 November 2012, although he could not close the gap on Barysan, he managed to maintain second place having received 462,970 votes.\n\nOn 27 November 2012, it was announced that Choruru was selected to be the event mascot for the 28th National Health and Welfare Festival. It will be held in Yamaguchi prefecture in 2015 under the name .\n\nOn 25 February 2013 at the Yamaguchi Prefectural Office, Choruru and Hello Kitty were joined in a \"Friendship Pact\". Following the two characters meeting at the 2012 Sanrio Thanks Party, an event held at Sanrio Puroland in December 2012, Yamaguchi began working toward associating with Sanrio. This was the first such pact Hello Kitty had made with another character. Afterwich both characters worked toward sending joy to people by way of participating in each other's events and collaborating on promotional goods and materials.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "33453282", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33453282", "title": "Coast Gymkhana Club Ground", "text": "Coast Gymkhana Club Ground\n\nCoast Gymkhana Club Ground is a cricket ground in Mombasa, Kenya. The first recorded match held on the ground came in 1999 when a Coast Cricket Association XI played the touring Marylebone Cricket Club. The ground held its first List A match in 2010 when Kenya played the United Arab Emirates. Kenya won the match by 24 runs. \n\nThe ground is owned by the Coast Gymkhana Club. The club is located roughly a hundred metres from the Mombasa Sports Club, which has hosted One Day Internationals.\n\n"}
{"id": "28691547", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28691547", "title": "Coliseo Polideportivo", "text": "Coliseo Polideportivo\n\nColiseo Polideportivo is an indoor arena located in Lima, Peru that is under construction. It was scheduled to be completed in July 2011, and have a seating capacity of 11,320 spectators. It will host some matches for the 2011 FIVB Women's Junior World Championship.\n"}
{"id": "4510845", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4510845", "title": "Denizli Atatürk Stadium", "text": "Denizli Atatürk Stadium\n\nDenizli Atatürk Stadium () is a multi-purpose stadium in Denizli, Turkey. It is currently used mostly for football matches and is the home ground of Denizlispor. The stadium holds 15,427 people and was built in 1950.\n\n"}
{"id": "21367947", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21367947", "title": "Diamond in the Dunes", "text": "Diamond in the Dunes\n\nDiamond in the Dunes is a feature-length documentary produced by the Documentary Foundation about a Chinese-Muslim baseball team in Xinjiang Province, China.\n\nThe documentary tells the story of Parhat Ablat, a young Muslim from an ethnic minority in the deserts of Western China, who leads the fight against racial segregation through baseball.\n\nThe population of Xinjiang Province, China is divided between two ethnic groups: the indigenous Muslim Uyghurs and the ruling Han Chinese, who gained control of the region in 1755 from the Dzungar kingdom. Uyghur and Han speak different languages, practice different religions, live and work in different neighborhoods, and even set their watches two hours apart―Han operate on Beijing time, Uyghurs on unofficial local time.\n\nThere is one place, however, where the segregation line is broken: on the baseball field. Although Uyghur and Han Chinese students at Xinjiang University take separate classes and live in separate dormitories, there are not enough players of one or the other ethnicity to field a whole team. They need each other to play baseball.\n\n\"Diamond in the Dunes\" follows this team and their charismatic captain, Parhat Ablat, in their struggle to overcome ethnic differences and prepare for their only game of the season: an all-in match up against a team of Tibetans from Qinghai Province.\n\nThe film is directed by Christopher Rufo. This is his third documentary film.\n\n\"Diamond in the Dunes\" opens with pastoral shots of Parhat Ablat, a young Muslim Uyghur, farming and herding sheep on his homestead outside Kashgar. Parhat says goodbye to his family and gets on the train for Urumqi, the capital of China's Xinjiang Province, where he attends university.\n\nThe population of this hardscrabble region is divided between two ethnic groups: the indigenous Muslim Uyghurs and the ruling Han Chinese, who gained control of the region in 1755 from the Dzungar kingdom. Uyghur and Chinese speak different languages, practice different religions, live and work in different neighborhoods, and even set their watches two hours apart―Chinese operate on Beijing time, Uyghurs on unofficial local time.\n\nParhat, pitcher and captain of Xinjiang University's baseball team, explains that classes and dormitories at Xinjiang University are segregated, but on baseball team, both Uyghur and Chinese students play side-by-side. When a package of donated baseball equipment arrives from the US, Parhat shares his excitement with Yusufu, one of his Chinese teammates.\n\nDuring Xinjiang's brutal winter, the team begins to practice underground and racial tensions between Uyghur and Chinese come to a point. Parhat must bring both sides of the team together and remind them that if the conflict persists, the team may be disbanded by the University.\n\nOn and off the field, Parhat's goal is to raise poor Uyghur students out of what he calls the Uyghurs' 'spirit sickness.' He teaches quantum mechanics to a class of Uyghur physics students, counsels the younger players on the team, and starts a baseball team at the local elementary school.\n\nAt the end of the season, the Xinjiang University team is invited to compete against the next-closest baseball team, the Qinghai Tibetan College, more than 2,000 miles to the east. On the train, the novice players brush up on the strike zone and force out rule.\n\nFinally, both teams face off for their only game of the season. The Xinjiang team plays hard, but Tibetans are too strong: the final score is 16-0. After the game, the mood is dour and the players look to Parhat for leadership. He assures them that the experience of defeat is important and a lesson can be learned: work hard, never forget your goals, and you will ultimately succeed.\n\nThe final sequence takes us back to Parhat's village. At sunset, he goes into the streets in his baseball uniform, finds a group of kids, and begins teaching them baseball. Night falls and the kids ask his name. \"Parhat,\" he says, which in Uyghur means 'hero.'\n\nDrawing from more than 100 hours of material, the film employs the cinéma vérité style, with no oncamera interviews or outside narration. The film favors a personal and psychological, rather than overtly political approach. The score is drawn from 100 minutes of Uyghur folk music, and includes drones extracted and reconditioned from the folk melodies and other sound design elements by Thomas Park of the musical act 'Mystified'.\n\n"}
{"id": "1936924", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1936924", "title": "First Arena", "text": "First Arena\n\nThe First Arena is a 3,784-seat multi-purpose facility that features two ice surfaces, a full-service restaurant and bar, a food service center for the recreational rink, video game arcade, 31 luxury suites, party/group outing facilities, and meeting/community rooms among other amenities. located in downtown Elmira, New York. The arena opened in 2000 as the Coach USA Center and changed names to the First Arena in 2004. It is home to the Elmira Enforcers of the Federal Hockey League since 2018, and was home to the Elmira Jackals from its opening until 2017. It is located on the corner of W. Gray Street and N. Main Street.\n\nThe arena's naming rights are held by First Transit.\n\nOn March 2, 1998, Elmira city officials announced Lauridon Sports Management as the developed and operator the city's $11.6 million proposed arena. By September, the Midtown Plaza on North Main Street was selected as the site for the arena. Lauridon then committed $5 million to the $15 million project. In July 1999, five downtown businesses were notified of eviction from their properties and Elmira City Council unanimously voted to begin eminent domain proceedings against Paul Navestad, the only property owner whom the city could not reach an agreement. Demolition began on September 21. Thomas Freeman, president of Coach USA Transit Services, signed an agreement to pay $1 million for the arena to be called the Coach USA Center. By October 4, the Chemung County Legislature requested the $7.25 million promised by Lauridon Sports Management and its private investor for the project, Mostafa Afr of Ann Arbor, Michigan, must be in place by December 1, or the county would pull its $1.25 million in support for the project. On October 26: Key Bank approved Afr’s application for a $7.25 million loan to help build the center. The arena then held its groundbreaking ceremony on November 24, 1999.\n\nOn January 28, 2000, the Chemung County Industrial Development Agency closed on the county’s $1.25 million loan to the project and the rest of the financing was completed in February with the Afrs and a vice president from Key Bank in Albany closed on a $5.5 million loan. Tamer Afr, Mostafa Afr’s son and business partner, announced that Global Spectrum had replaced Lauridon Sports Management as the arena facility manager. This lasted three months before they announced that SMG would manage the arena instead. The City Council also approved a roof design for the project in June 2000 that increased the estimated cost of the arena to $16 million. \n\nOn March 27, 2000, the United Hockey League awarded an expansion franchise to Elmira to begin play in the 2000–01 season. The team name was revealed as the Elmira Jackals. The Twin Tier Amateur Hockey Association and Tamer Afr also signed a contract for youth hockey to be played at the arena. On November 11, the first event is held at the center when the Jackals played their home opener against the Knoxville Speed. The Moody Blues were the first musical entertainment at the arena the following night.\n\nIn October 2003, the Coach USA Center was renamed First Arena. In April 2006, Mostafa Afr announced that Robbie Nichols would take over operation of both First Arena and the Jackals. He became the arena's eighth general manager in less than six years and its fourth manager in the past year.\n\nOn October 31, 2007, Elmira Downtown Arena (EDA), the arena operator, entered into an installment agreement to pay taxes on which it had defaulted. EDA then defaulted on the agreement on March 31, 2008. From 2009 to 2011, the arena continued to fail to pay its taxes. On January 17, 2012, the 4:30 p.m. deadline passed to pay $123,849 in overdue taxes and a foreclosure order was then signed by Chemung County Court judge Peter Buckley, starting a \"redemption period\" that was to end February 29. During that period, Southern Tier Economic Development (STED), the arena's owner, could get the property back by paying the overdue tax balance plus a 10% penalty totaling $136,234. On March 12, the county legislature voted to table an attempt by STED to buy back the arena. The legislature also called for the hiring of a consultant to investigate the arena's financial status and physical condition.\n\nThe EDA responded on March 22, 2012, by filing a lawsuit against Chemung County, county executive Tom Santulli, county treasurer Joseph Sartori and STED to try to force the county to accept the repurchase offer on the arena. EDA and M-Team LLC, a Michigan corporation, also filed a lawsuit against former arena general manager Robbie Nichols and former assistant general manager Donald Lewis alleging they attempted to sabotage the arena operator, the Jackals and First Arena. EDA and Key Bank filed two more lawsuits in April accusing the county of not following proper procedure in administering its foreclosure process. County judge Judith O'Shea dismissed the lawsuit filed March 22 against county officials and the suit filed against Nichols and Lewis. On May 17, 2012, a memorandum of understanding was signed by Tamer Afr for EDA, Santulli for the county and Kevin Keeley as president of STED that allowed the Jackals to play in the facility during the 2012–13 season. The agreement also allowed EDA to continue operating the arena but gave the county the same rights as STED to oversee arena operations.\n\nOn February 5, 2013, officials announced that Elm Arena LLC, a group headed by Tom Freeman, president of First Air in Big Flats, had been named as the new operator of First Arena, replacing the Afr family. The agreement ended all pending litigation. On April 10, the Jackals held a press conference to name Tom Freeman and Nathan Cook the new owners of the First Arena and the Jackals. In September 2014, the Jackals were donated from Freeman to a private non-profit community organization, Twin Tiers Economic Development (TTED), a 30-member board to oversee the organization.\n\nOn January 28, 2016, the Chemung County Industrial Development Agency (IDA) entered into an \"option to purchase agreement\" with a down payment of $300,000, giving the IDA time to consider all factors and options about the future of the arena. The IDA then assumed temporary ownership of First Arena and the Jackals until a new owner can be found beginning in April 2016. The IDA gave tours of the facility to several potential buyers hoping to be in a position to select a buyer by late July or early August 2016. However, no purchase proposals were received by the June 24 deadline. Negotiations continued with three interested parties. On August 24, the process had been narrowed to one party, who was also interested in buying the Jackals. The IDA hoped to complete the transaction by January 2017.\n\nIn January 2017, the Chemung County legislature voted to maintain the arena to be open to the public but asked the Elmira City Council to contribute nearly $1.5 million of taxpayer money over five years to repair the ice plant and repay back bills. They council voted against it saying that doing so would require a 3% property tax increase. The Chemung County IDA sarguedys that they only had enough funds to operate the arena for another week. On February 10, the IDA presented a counteroffer to the Elmira City Council asking for $750,000 to repair the ice plant. They indicated that an answer is required by close of business on February 13, but extended the deadline for an answer from the city to the morning of February 16. The council decided that they would be unable to provide any financial assistance to the county for First Arena. The IDA hoped to be able to keep the arena open until the Jackals' season ends in mid-April.\n\nOn March 7, the potential buyer dropped the request for taxpayer funding. The buyer also needed to submit paperwork to the ECHL by March 9 to ask for approval for a change in ownership, and to affirm that the Jackals would play the next season. On March 10, it was announced that local businessman Brian Barrett would take ownership of First Arena, but the Jackals would cease operations at the conclusion of the 2016–17 season. Finalization of the deal was contingent upon the new owner obtaining another hockey franchise. Possibilities were from an announced new amateur league called the International Developmental Hockey League (IDHL), which listed a team called the Elmira Express on its web site, or the Federal Hockey League, a low-level professional league. The Jackals played their final game on April 8, 2017. On June 27, 2017, Barrett backed out of negotiations for buying the arena.\n\nOn July 5, 2017, Elmira Pioneers co-owner and former Jackals coach and general manager Robbie Nichols expressed a desire to bring a Federal Hockey League team to Elmira for the 2017–18 season. However, after meeting with county officials and the IDA, Nichols announced that they could not come to an agreement and the plan was put on hold. Robbie Nichols offered to lease the arena for a minimum of two years but the IDA rejected the proposal, saying it would leave them financially exposed. The IDA presented a counter proposal to Nichols, which he and his group rejected.\n\nOn October 3, 2017, the City of Elmira approved a resolution proposed by the IDA to apply for a \"Restore New York\" grant to help repair the arena's ice plant and roof. The repairs were intended to help the IDA get the building up to par so it can be sold. Only cities can apply for such a grant. In January 2018, the IDA was still trying to get professional or college hockey into First Arena, focusing on Elmira College, located a few blocks from the arena, whose team was using the Murray Athletic Center, eight miles from campus.\n\nOn June 25, 2018, the IDA reopened negotiations with Robbie Nichols to bring a Federal Hockey League team to Elmira with Nichols leasing the arena, not purchasing it. On July 17, Nichols and the IDA announced that Nichols would lease the arena for a year with renewals for the following two years and an option to purchase. Nichols brought in a Federal Hockey League (FHL) franchise and intends to hold other events. The new FHL team was announced as the Elmira Enforcers and began play in the 2018–19 season.\n\nFirst Arena is mostly known for the Elmira Jackals ice hockey team that competed in the ECHL and the United Hockey League between 2000 and 2017. First Arena has also hosted many other sporting events such as basketball, X-treme Ice Racing, and pro wrestling from WWE and TNA Wrestling.\n\nIn 2018, the minor professional Elmira Enforcers began play as a member of the Federal Hockey League. The team is owned by Elmira Pioneers co-owner Robbie Nichols, who also has the option to purchase the arena.\n\nThe arena also hosts musical acts, family productions, and many other large entertainment performances such as concerts and circuses.\n\nThe following is a partial list of notable concerts and other entertainment events that have taken place at First Arena:\n\n"}
{"id": "753864", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=753864", "title": "Gila River Arena", "text": "Gila River Arena\n\nGila River Arena (originally Glendale Arena and formerly Jobing.com Arena) is a sports and entertainment arena in Glendale, Arizona. It is located about northwest of downtown Phoenix.\n\nThe Arizona Coyotes of the National Hockey League (NHL) has been the primary tenant since the building opened on December 26, 2003. It sits on the north side of West Maryland Avenue across from State Farm Stadium, home of the National Football League's (NFL) Arizona Cardinals. The venue anchors the City of Glendale's Westgate Entertainment District just east of Arizona Loop 101.\n\nThe now-defunct Arizona Sting also had played four National Lacrosse League (NLL) seasons at the arena until their 13–11 loss to the Rochester Knighthawks in the 2007 Champion's Cup game. Negotiations on a new Collective Bargaining Agreement originally delayed the start of the 2008 NLL season, but the Sting did not participate. They eventually ceased operations in 2009.\n\nCompleted at a construction cost of US$220 million, it seats 17,125 for hockey and lacrosse, 18,300 for basketball and about 19,000 for concert events. The arena has 3,075 club seats and 87 luxury suites (including two Luxury Tower Suites). It also features a completely integrated video, scoring and advertising system from Daktronics.\n\nThe arena's construction broke ground on April 3, 2002 and the Coyotes moved into the arena in late 2003. Martin/Martin Consulting Engineers provided structural engineering for the arena. After relocating from Winnipeg on July 1, 1996, the team had spent its first 7½ seasons at America West Arena (now the Talking Stick Resort Arena) in downtown Phoenix. The AWA was not an old arena (it had made its debut as the new home of the NBA's Phoenix Suns only four years earlier in 1992) but it was primarily designed for NBA basketball. It was quickly retrofitted for hockey. However, the arena floor was just barely large enough to fit a regulation hockey rink, and several seats had badly obstructed views. As a result, before the team's second season in Phoenix, its hockey capacity had to be cut down from over 18,000 seats to just over 16,000—the second-smallest capacity in the NHL at the time. After the Colorado Avalanche moved from McNichols Sports Arena into Pepsi Center in 1999, and the Toronto Maple Leafs moved from the Maple Leaf Gardens to Air Canada Centre later in the same season, America West Arena was the smallest NHL venue. A small section of seats on the lower level actually hung over the boards, obstructing the views for up to 3,000 spectators.\n\nWhen the Coyotes were sold to a partnership led by Steve Ellman, that group committed to building a new arena in suburban Glendale. With agreements signed with the city of Glendale in 2001, the venue opened midway through the 2003–04 NHL season as the \"Glendale Arena\" on December 26, 2003, with the Arizona Sting of the National Lacrosse League defeating the Vancouver Ravens, 16–12, the 2004 NLL season opener. The first NHL game was held the next evening, as the Coyotes dropped a 3–1 decision to the Nashville Predators on December 27, 2003. The Coyotes' first win at the arena came on December 31, 2003, as they defeated the Los Angeles Kings 4-0. \n\nThe arena was originally scheduled to receive the 2006 National Hockey League All-Star Game. However, the new NHL Collective Bargaining Agreement signed following the 2004–05 lockout cancelled the game, as under the terms of the new agreement, the All-Star Game would not be held during the year of the Winter Olympics in order for players to participate in the Games. Many expected Glendale to gain the 2009 NHL All-Star Game as compensation; however, the Montreal Canadiens and their arena, Bell Centre, were awarded the 2009 All-Star Game to celebrate the team's centennial. Jobing.com Arena then was awarded the 2011 edition, but due to the ongoing bankruptcy case, potential ownership changes in the Coyotes organization, and the possibility of relocation, the NHL decided to reopen bidding to host the game, which went on to the Carolina Hurricanes' RBC Center. The Coyotes' current owners, IceArizona, are still interested in getting an All-Star Game in Glendale.\n\nBeginning in 2005, the venue has been host to the Arizona state high school basketball, volleyball, wrestling and cheerleading tournaments in a mega-event called \"February Frenzy\", as the result of a formal agreement between the city of Glendale and the Arizona Interscholastic Association (AIA).\n\nThe Arizona Sting did not play after the 2007 season and fully ceased operations in 2009.\n\nSince 2004, the PBR's Built Ford Tough Series bull riding tour has hosted an annual event at this venue (except for 2006 when the event was held at Chase Field).\nPrior to the 2009–2010 season, this was the only current NHL arena to have never hosted a playoff game, as the Coyotes' last playoff appearance was in 2002 when they still played home games in downtown Phoenix. However, the team qualified for the 2010 Stanley Cup playoffs, ending that drought. They played the Red Wings and lost the series 4–3. The 2010–2011 Coyotes season ended at Jobing.com Arena with a 4-game sweep of the Coyotes by the Detroit Red Wings.\n\nThe arena saw extra action during the 2011–12 NHL season as the Coyotes not only qualified for the playoffs for the third consecutive season, but advanced to the Western Conference Finals for the first time in team history, losing to the eventual Stanley Cup Champion Los Angeles Kings in five games. Every home playoff game as in years past featured a \"White Out\", continuing the tradition of years past in both Phoenix and Winnipeg playoff series of giving fans white T-shirts to wear for the games.\n\nThe Arizona Coyotes missed the playoffs during the next 3 seasons, concluding the second half of the 2014–2015 season with a NHL worst record of 8–29–4. Losses mounted toward the $50 million, 5-year out clause for the Coyotes. Coyotes ownership continued to revolve, as Philadelphia hedge fund manager Andrew Barroway was announced as the new majority owner in December 2014, only to back out as majority owner less than 6 months later. Losses for the City of Glendale on the arena management agreement continued to run at nearly $10 million annually.\n\nOn June 10, 2015, the Glendale City Council voted to terminate the arena contract with IceArizona. Mayor Jerry Weiers, Vice Mayor Ian Hugh and council members Jamie Aldama, Lauren Tolmachoff, and Bart Turner cited conflict of interest laws asserted to apply to Craig Tindall, former Glendale city attorney. Tindall was hired by IceArizona about seven weeks after the city originally approved the IceArizona contract. Councilmen Samuel Chavira and Gary Sherwood opposed voiding the contract. IceArizona has threatened legal action against the city. On July 27, a new deal was arranged where Glendale's management deal was reduced from $15 to $6.5 million per year, while the Coyotes would get all the ticket and ancillary revenue from hockey and concerts at Gila River Arena for up to two years.\n\nNaming rights to the arena were initially held by Jobing.com—a Phoenix-based employment website—under a 10-year, $30 million deal established in October 2006.\n\nOn August 13, 2014, the Coyotes terminated their naming rights deal with Jobing.com, and announced a new nine-year naming rights and sponsorship deal with Gila River Casinos—a group of tribal casinos controlled by the Gila River Indian Community. No financial terms were announced. Team CEO Anthony LeBlanc described the new naming rights deal as the \"most significant deal\" made by the team under its new IceArizona ownership. With the deal, the Gila River community became the first federally recognized Native American tribe to hold a naming rights deal with a venue for one of the major North American professional sports leagues.\n\nThe first musical concert at the then-Glendale Arena was by Bette Midler on February 13, 2004. While the arena gets fewer events than Talking Stick Resort Arena in Phoenix, Gila River Arena averages 14 non-hockey events per year. During Super Bowl XLIX at nearby University of Phoenix Stadium, the Gila River Arena hosted a \"Super Bowl Club\" hospitality event prior to the game.\n\nIn July 2016, the Arizona Rattlers announced their playoffs schedule plans which included moving the ArenaBowl to Gila River Arena due to scheduling conflicts with their usual home Talking Stick Resort Arena. The game became official on August 13 when the Rattlers won the National Conference Championship and clinched home field advantage for the ArenaBowl. On August 26, 2016, the arena officially hosted ArenaBowl XXIX, which featured the Philadelphia Soul and the Arizona Rattlers in front of 13,390 fans. This not only became the first Rattler home game to take place outside of their original home but became the first ever event at Gila River Arena to be broadcast across the country on ESPN.\n\n"}
{"id": "57567", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57567", "title": "Golden goal", "text": "Golden goal\n\nThe golden goal or golden point is a rule used in association football, bandy, lacrosse, field hockey, ice hockey, floorball and korfball to decide the winner of a match (typically a knock-out match) in which scores are equal at the end of normal time. It is a type of sudden death. Under this rule, the game will end when a goal or point is scored; the team that scores that goal or point during extra time will be the winner. Introduced formally in 1992, though with some history before that, the rule ceased to apply to most FIFA-authorized football games in 2004. The similar silver goal supplemented the golden goal between 2002 and 2004.\n\nThe golden goal is still used in NCAA matches and in FIH sanctioned field hockey games, as well as in FIRS sanctioned roller hockey games. A related concept, the golden point, is used in National Rugby League games. A similar golden goal rule is also used in all National Hockey League (NHL) overtime games (followed by a shootout if needed, in the regular season and preseason); however, the term \"golden goal\" is not used. A rule similar to the golden goal also applies in the National Football League (only if a touchdown or safety is scored first on the first possession), although again the term itself is not used.\n\nThe first recorded use of the golden goal rule was in the final of the Cromwell Cup, the world's second ever football competition, at Bramall Lane, Sheffield in 1868, although the term \"golden goal\" was not used. The deciding goal was scored by the then newly formed team called The Wednesday, now known as Sheffield Wednesday. The golden goal was introduced due to perceived failings of other means of resolving a draw (tie) in round-robin or knock-out tournaments where a winner is required. In particular, extra time periods can be tense and unentertaining as sides are too tired and nervous to attack, preferring to defend and play for penalties; whilst penalty shootouts are often described as based upon luck, and unrepresentative of football. FIFA introduced the golden goal rule in 1993. It was hoped that the golden goal would produce more attacking play during extra time, and would reduce the number of penalty shootouts.\n\nInternational field hockey tournaments such as the Hockey World Cup and Champions Trophy had used golden goals to decide the winners of elimination matches. During these matches, two extra periods of 7½ minutes each were played, and if no golden goals were scored after both periods of extra time, a penalty stroke competition decided the game. FIH, the sport's governing body, did away with the overtime procedure in 2013, and now teams go directly to the shootout.\n\nThe golden goal rule comes into use at the end of regulation of every National Hockey League game where the score is tied. In the regular season, five minutes of three-on-three sudden-death overtime are played, with the first goal winning the game. If, however, neither team scores after this period, a shootout determines the winner. In playoff games, shootouts are not used; 20-minute periods of five-on-five hockey are played until a goal is scored to end the game. This has resulted in extremely long contests, such as the \"Easter Epic\"; a playoff series-deciding match which ended in the midst of its fourth overtime. The term \"golden goal\" is not a commonly used term in hockey, rather the winning goal is known as an \"overtime winner\" or \"overtime goal\" while the format is known as \"sudden death\".\n\nThe Winter Olympics ice hockey tournament uses the golden goal rule only in the gold medal game, with a 20-minute period of 5-on-5. The game ends if a goal is scored; otherwise, a penalty shootout will determine the winner. This method was used to determine the 2010 men's final, where Sidney Crosby scored the game-winning goal 7:40 into overtime. As that goal won Canada the Gold Medal, it has become known as \"The Golden Goal\". Another happened at the 2014 women's final, as Marie-Philip Poulin scored at 8:10 of overtime for Canada. In both instances, the team they beat was the United States. The two teams met in the rematch 4 years later, and lasted the whole 20-minute overtime without a goal before the United States prevailed in double overtime for their first gold in 20 years. Jocelyne Lamoureux scored in the 6th round of that period while Meghan Agosta failed. Kirill Kaprizov scored at 9:40 of overtime as the Olympic Athletes from Russia beat Germany in the 2018 men's final.\n\nThe National Football League introduced sudden death during the regular season in the NFL in 1974 and had always had it in its playoffs. Like the NHL, the NFL's rule comes into use at the end of regulation of any regular season game. Until 2011, it applied for playoff games as well. A new \"quarter\" is started, with a kickoff. Whichever team scores first—either through a field goal or through a touchdown, or far more rarely a safety—wins the game and the game ends. Since in the preseason and regular season, teams are given a \"fifth quarter\" of 10 minutes to decide the game. Originally if neither team scored after 15 minutes the game ended in a tie. Since the season, each team gets one possession to score, unless one of them scores a touchdown or safety on its first possession. Sudden death rules apply if both teams have had their initial possession and the game remains tied. If after the OT period it remains tied during that time, the game still ends.\n\nBecause this presents a significant advantage to the team winning the coin toss to decide who receives the first overtime possession, the NFL moved in 2011 to require that if both teams have not had possession of the ball prior to the first score, then the team who does have possession must score a touchdown to end the game, preventing the team winning the coin toss from making a much shorter drive down the field and kicking a \"golden goal\" without the other team having a chance to touch the ball. Making the longer drive downfield and scoring a touchdown still ends the game immediately. This applied first in the postseason and later was adopted in the 2012 season. During the postseason, multiple 15-minute overtime \"quarters\" can be played until either team scores. The record for a number of overtimes in a professional football game is three, when on June 30, 1984, the Los Angeles Express defeated the Michigan Panthers, 27–21, in the 1984 USFL playoffs.\n\nThe NFL is the only American football league that currently uses the golden goal. Most levels of football, including high school, college, most indoor leagues, and Canadian football, use a system known as the \"Kansas Playoff\" that more closely resembles baseball innings or penalty shootouts. Some professional leagues, such as the modern United Football League, use a system that guarantees each team has a possession before switching to sudden death.\n\nA \"Golden point\" system, whereby a rugby league game whose 80 minutes have ended in a draw is decided by whichever team scores the first point (by whatever means) during a period of extra time is the winner. It was first used in 1997's Super League Tri-Series.\n\nAlthough the golden goal format was used in North American professional soccer football leagues as early as the 1970s, the term \"golden goal\" was introduced by FIFA in 1993 along with the rule change because the alternative term, \"sudden death\", was perceived to have negative connotations. In a knockout competition, following a draw, two fifteen-minute periods of extra time are played. If either team scores a goal during extra time, the game ends immediately and the scoring team becomes the winner. The winning goal is known as the \"golden goal\". If there have been no goals scored after both periods of extra time, a penalty shoot-out decides the game. The golden goal was not compulsory, and individual competitions using extra time could choose whether to apply it during extra time. The first European Championship played with the rule was in 1996; the first World Cup played with the rule was in 1998.\n\nThe first golden goal recorded was on 13 March 1993 by Australia against Uruguay in a quarter-final match of the World Youth Championship. The first major tournament final to be decided by such a goal was the 1995 Football League Trophy, where Birmingham City beat Carlisle United 1–0, with a goal from Paul Tait, followed by the 1996 European Championship final, won by Germany over the Czech Republic. The golden goal in this final was scored by Oliver Bierhoff. The first golden goal in World Cup history took place in 1998, as Laurent Blanc scored to enable France to defeat Paraguay in the Round of 16.\n\nIn a qualification game for the 1994 Caribbean Cup, Barbados deliberately scored a late own goal in a successful attempt to qualify for the finals by forcing golden-goal extra time against Grenada, as an unusual tournament rule stated that golden goals counted double in calculating goal difference. Needing a two-goal victory to qualify, Barbados found themselves 2–1 up with three minutes left of normal time. After the Barbadians scored an own goal to bring the scoreline level at 2–2, Grenada tried to score in either net while Barbados defended both goals for the final three minutes of normal time. Barbados won the game in extra time and advanced to the next round.\n\nIn 2000, France defeated Italy in extra time in the 2000 European Championship final when David Trezeguet scored a golden goal. France thus became the first holder of both the FIFA World Cup and UEFA European Championship in history since West Germany in 1974.\n\nThe following year, Liverpool overcame Deportivo Alavés in the UEFA Cup Final with an own golden goal by Delfí Geli to make the score 5–4 to Liverpool.\n\nThe golden goal was used in the FIFA World Cup for the last time in 2002, when Turkey defeated Senegal in the quarter finals when İlhan Mansız scored what would be the final golden goal in male tournaments. However, the 2003 Women's World Cup final was decided by a golden goal as Germany defeated Sweden 2–1 with a header by Nia Künzer in the 98th minute. \n\nFIFA World Cup Golden Goals\nFIFA Confederations Golden Goals\nFor the 2002–2003 season, UEFA introduced a new rule, the silver goal, to decide a competitive match. In extra time the team leading after the first fifteen-minute half would win, but the game would no longer stop the instant a team scored. Competitions that operated extra time would be able to decide whether to use the golden goal, the silver goal, or neither procedure during extra time.\n\nOn 27 August 2003, Dutch club Ajax qualified for the group stage of the 2003–04 UEFA Champions League by virtue of the silver goal against Austrian club GAK after the two legs finished 1–1 each after 90 minutes. In extra time, Ajax was able to take advantage of GAK having two players sent off when Tomáš Galásek scored from a penalty in the 103rd minute.\n\nLess than a year later on 1 July 2004, Galásek would be on the field when the silver goal was featured in the only major competitive match to be decided by a silver goal: that of the semi-final match at Euro 2004 between Greece and the Czech Republic. However, the silver goal would eliminate the Czech Republic as Traianos Dellas scored for Greece after a corner kick in the last two seconds of the first period of extra time. As well as being the only silver goal ever seen in an international match, it was also the only goal Traianos Dellas ever scored in his international career.\n\nThe golden goal and silver goal were widely perceived as failed experiments. They had not brought about more active and attacking play and there was confusion when events could choose among several different extra time rules. The golden goal in the Euro 96 final was controversial, as the Czechs, who were on the losing side argued that the Germans' winning goal was offside. The silver goal has been called illogical in that it denies the losing team the chance of saving the match simply by virtue of when the goal is scored, a point best illustrated in the Euro 2004 semi-final: if the Greek goal had been scored 15 seconds later, that is immediately after the extra-time interval (instead of the last two seconds of the first period of extra time), the Czechs would have had nearly 15 minutes to attempt to score the equalizer. Furthermore, one team could benefit unfairly from the conditions, such as if a strong wind aided one side.\n\nIn February 2004, the IFAB announced that, after Euro 2004, both the golden goal and silver goal methods would be removed from the Laws of the Game. Since the 2006 FIFA World Cup in Germany, the golden goal has never been used in the event of a tied match during the knockout stage, as FIFA restored the original rules: in the event of a tied game after the original 90 minutes, two straight 15-minute periods of extra time are played. If a tie still remains after that, the winner is decided by a penalty shoot-out.\n\n"}
{"id": "18087743", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18087743", "title": "Halfback (Canadian football)", "text": "Halfback (Canadian football)\n\nThe halfback in Canadian football, and most commonly the Canadian Football League, currently refers to the defensive back rather than the running back, as in American football. The defensive halfback lines up inside covering the slotback. They are usually slightly larger than the cornerback to assist the linebackers in stopping the run. They can also be seen backing off the line early, to counter the forward motion of a slotback, which is allowed before the snap in the CFL.\n\nThe cause of the difference in naming between the two positions between the American and Canadian game, which otherwise uses the same names for positions, stems from the early history of the game. In both games, the early formations featured identical offensive and defensive formations, with seven down linemen and four players (five in Canada) in the backfield. Thus, both offense \"and\" defense had quarterbacks, halfbacks and fullbacks. Over the course of the 20th century, the American and Canadian games both placed an increased emphasis on forward passing, resulting in both offensive and defensive formations spreading out and morphing into modern formations. Furthermore, the abolition of the one-platoon system in the 1940s led to a tendency for position names being used on only one side of the ball. The American game, which still held a significant running component, kept two running backs, which led to the retention of the \"halfback\" and \"fullback\" identifications on that side of the ball. In Canadian football, however, passing was a greater portion of the game (due in part to the larger field and one less down in that game) and only one running back was regularly used, leading to the offensive distinction between halfback and fullback eventually becoming obsolete. The offensive halfback was similar to a slotback and lined up off the tight end, running sweeps, pass patterns and performing blocking duties, but could also run out of the backfield in front of the fullback.\n\nThe rough equivalents of the halfback position in American football are the strong safety and nickelback.\n"}
{"id": "8096666", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8096666", "title": "John Mansfield (cricketer)", "text": "John Mansfield (cricketer)\n\nJohn Mansfield (dates of birth and death unknown) was a noted English cricketer of the mid-18th century who played for Kent. He was a good batsman who played for the same Sevenoaks club as Val Romney. Mansfield was adept at the single wicket form of the game which was very popular during his career.\n\nHe is first mentioned as a member of the strong Kent team that played against All-England at the Artillery Ground on 31 August 1747.\n\nIn the 1749 season, Mansfield played for All-England himself, against Surrey. He appeared in a number of teams after this as a given man or as a member of a \"best eleven\", as well as in single wicket.\n\nHe is last recorded playing in a five-a-side single wicket match at the Artillery Ground in 1754 and it is here that his first name is given for the only time in known sources.\n"}
{"id": "32212672", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32212672", "title": "John Walker Soccer Complex", "text": "John Walker Soccer Complex\n\nJohn Walker Soccer Complex is a soccer-specific stadium located in Lubbock, Texas, United States on the campus of Texas Tech University. It has been home to the Texas Tech Red Raiders women's soccer team since 2008.\n\n"}
{"id": "58553748", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58553748", "title": "KF Dukagjini", "text": "KF Dukagjini\n\nKF Dukagjini (Klubi Futbollistik Dukagjini Klinë) is a professional football club based in the city of Klina, Kosovo. The club compete in the second tier of football in Kosovo the First Football League of Kosovo.\n"}
{"id": "40157365", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40157365", "title": "Latvia at the 2013 World Championships in Athletics", "text": "Latvia at the 2013 World Championships in Athletics\n\nLatvia competed at the 2013 World Championships in Athletics in Moscow, Russia, from 10–18 August 2013.\n\n10 athletes from Latvia will participate: Laura Ikauniece (Heptathlon), Madara Palameika, Līna Mūze, Vadims Vasiļevskis (all - Javelin throw), Lauma Grīva (Long jump), Igors Sokolovs (Hammer throw), Mareks Ārents (Pole vault), Agnese Pastare, Anita Kažemāka, and Arnis Rumbenieks (all - Walking).\n"}
{"id": "49089806", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49089806", "title": "Latvian Athletics Association", "text": "Latvian Athletics Association\n\nThe Latvian Athletics Association (Latvian \"Latvijas Vieglatlētikas savienība\") is the governing body for the sport of athletics in Latvia. \n\n\nLVS maintains the Latvian records in athletics.\n\n"}
{"id": "28067569", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28067569", "title": "Le Tremplin Olympique du Mont", "text": "Le Tremplin Olympique du Mont\n\nLe Tremplin Olympique du Mont () was a ski jumping venue constructed for the 1924 Winter Olympics in Chamonix, France.\n\nThe jumper started at a height of 1189.8 m, traveling 79.4 meters while dropping in height to a take off point of 1152.8 meters. Upon flight, the K-point was determined to be 71.5 meters.\n\nThis venue hosted both the ski jumping and the ski jumping part of the Nordic combined events at the 1924 Winter Olympics.\n\nThe hill served as a venue for the FIS Nordic World Ski Championships 1937. Built in 1905, it was renovated in 1998.\n\n"}
{"id": "41996839", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41996839", "title": "Low rider bicycle luggage carrier", "text": "Low rider bicycle luggage carrier\n\nA low rider is type of luggage carrier for bicycles on which luggage can be carried with a low center of gravity. Low riders are most commonly used by cycling tourists who carry luggage in panniers on the front wheel.\n\nFor optimal balance the luggage on a front carrier should be placed low, and as closely as possible to the steering axis (right behind the front wheel axis).\n\nLike other types of luggage carriers low riders are usually constructed out of aluminum or (stainless) steel rods or tubing. The rods and tubes bent to the right shape and then mounting points are added to it.\n\nAll low riders have horizontal rails on which panniers can be attached. The most common diameter of the rails is 10 millimeters. Some low riders have two rails on each side. The lower rail allows the luggage to be carried near the center of gravity of the wheel, while the higher rail provides more clearance from obstacles when cycling over rough terrain.\n\nLow riders can be made out of two separate parts or joined together with a stabilizing bow, which increases the stiffness. Some low riders include a top platform on which more luggage can be packed.\n\nLow riders are specifically designed to be mounted on a specific kind of fork.\nTouring bicycles usually have a front fork with one or two threaded eyelets for M5 bolts on the front dropout on each side. These are for mounting fenders and/or luggage carrier. Another mid-fork eyelet \"braze-on\" is positioned 160 to 175 mm above it for mounting a low rider front luggage carrier. There is no established standard for the position of the mid-fork eyelet. Most low riders are adjustable to compensate for this.\nSome forks have mid-fork eyelets on the inside as well as outside to provide mounting of some specialized carriers such as the Tubus Duo.\nFor bicycles that do not have these eyelets or \"braze-ons\", various alternatives exist. Some of these come in the form of \"U-Bolts\", clamps, or some sort of clamp-on eyelet (see Tubus Aluminum Alloy Fork Mounting Kit) \nWhen installing carriers, a drop of thread locking compound is advised to ensure that the screws do not loosened from vibrations under load.\n"}
{"id": "7695839", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7695839", "title": "Nicaragua at the 1976 Summer Olympics", "text": "Nicaragua at the 1976 Summer Olympics\n\nNicaragua competed at the 1976 Summer Olympics in Montreal, Quebec, Canada. Fifteen competitors, all men, took part in nineteen events in six sports.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1809485", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1809485", "title": "Outpost (chess)", "text": "Outpost (chess)\n\nAn outpost is a square on the fourth, fifth, sixth, or seventh which is protected by a pawn and which cannot be attacked by an opponent's pawn. Such a square is a hole for the opponent . In the figure to the right, c4 is an outpost, occupied by White's knight. It cannot be attacked by Black's pawns – there is no pawn on the d- and Black's pawn on the b-file is too far advanced.\n\nOutposts are a favourable position from which to launch an attack, particularly using a knight.\n\nKnights are most efficient when they are close to the enemy's stronghold. This is because of their short reach, something not true of bishops, rooks and queens. They are also more effective in the centre of the board than on the edges. Therefore, the ideal to be aimed at is an outpost in one of the central (c-, d-, e- or f-) files in an advanced position (e.g. the sixth rank) with a knight. Knowledge of outposts and their effectiveness is crucial in exploiting situations involving an isolated queen's pawn.\n\nOn the other hand, Nimzowitsch argued when the outpost is in one of the flank (a-, b-, g- and h-) files the ideal piece to make use of the outpost is a rook. This is because the rook can put pressure on all the squares along the rank.\n\nBibliography\n"}
{"id": "7748206", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7748206", "title": "Panama at the 1968 Summer Olympics", "text": "Panama at the 1968 Summer Olympics\n\nPanama competed at the 1968 Summer Olympics in Mexico City, Mexico.\n\n\nMen's Bantamweight\n\nMen's Featherweight\n\nMen's Freestyle Flyweight\n\nMen's Freestyle Lightweight \n\n"}
{"id": "8984132", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8984132", "title": "Perfect Game (2000 film)", "text": "Perfect Game (2000 film)\n\nPerfect Game is a 2000 American made-for-television comedy film about an eleven-year-old boy who loves baseball and yearns to play on his local Little League team. It was produced for the Disney Channel, where it was first aired.\n\nKanin Crosby, an 11-year-old boy who longs to play baseball for his local Little League team, is surprised when he and a group of other boys who, like him, are not all that talented, make the team. The team is led by experienced coach Bobby Geiser. The team soon find out, however, that Geiser was obliged to take the less-than-stellar players on in order to win a bet, provoking anger in Kanin, his friends and his mother Diane.\n\nWith Diane's help, the team overthrow Geiser and he is replaced by Billy, a retired school baseball coach. The team soon find out, however, that their new coach requires just as much self-assurance as they do. Through this they discover the value of teamwork.\n\n"}
{"id": "52371219", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52371219", "title": "Qena SC", "text": "Qena SC\n\nQena Sporting Club (), is an Egyptian football club based in Qena, Egypt. The club is currently playing in the Egyptian Second Division, the second-highest league in the Egyptian football league system.\n"}
{"id": "15636921", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15636921", "title": "RK Medveščak", "text": "RK Medveščak\n\nRukometni klub \"Medveščak\" is a team handball club from Zagreb, Croatia.\n\nThey are one of the more famous branches of the Medveščak sports society, named after the Medveščak neighbourhood of Zagreb. They play in the sports and recreational centre Šalata. Through history club was also known as Prvomajska, Coning Medveščak, Medveščak Osiguranje Zagreb, Medveščak Infosistem, Agram Medveščak and Medveščak NFD.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "487561", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=487561", "title": "Robert F. Kennedy Memorial Stadium", "text": "Robert F. Kennedy Memorial Stadium\n\nRobert F. Kennedy Memorial Stadium (commonly known as RFK Stadium, originally District of Columbia Stadium) is a multi-purpose stadium in Washington, D.C. It is located about due east of the US Capitol building, near the west bank of the Anacostia River and adjacent to the D.C. Armory. It opened in 1961. \n\nRFK Stadium was home to a National Football League (NFL) team, two Major League Baseball (MLB) teams, five professional soccer teams, two college football teams, a bowl game and a USFL team. It has hosted five NFC Championship games, two MLB All-Star Games, men's and women's World Cup matches, nine men's and women's first-round soccer games of the 1996 Olympics, three MLS Cup matches, two MLS All-Star games and numerous American friendlies and World Cup qualifying matches. It has hosted college football, college soccer, baseball exhibitions, boxing matches, a cycling race, a Le Mans auto race, marathons and dozens of major concerts and events.\n\nRFK was one of the first major stadiums designed specifically as a multi-sport facility to host baseball and football. Although other stadiums already served this purpose, such as Cleveland Stadium (1931) and Baltimore's Memorial Stadium (1950), RFK was one of the first to employ what became known as the circular \"cookie-cutter\" design.\n\nIt is owned and operated by Events DC (the successor agency to the DC Armory Board), a quasi-public organization affiliated with the city government under a long-term lease from the National Park Service, which owns the land; the lease expires in 2038.\n\nThe idea of a stadium at this location originated in 1932 when the Roosevelt Memorial Association (RMA) proposed a National Stadium for the site and Allied Architects, a group of local architects organized in 1925 to secure large-scale projects from the government, made designs for it. A \"National Stadium\" in Washington was an idea that had been pursued since 1916, when Congressman George Hulbert of New York proposed the construction of a 50,000-seat stadium at East Potomac Park for the purpose of attracting the 1920 Olympics. It was thought that such a stadium could attract Davis Cup tennis matches, polo tournaments and the annual Army-Navy football game. A later effort by DC Director of Public Buildings and Parks Ulysses S. Grant III and Congressman Hamilton Fish of New York sought to turn the National Stadium into a 100,000-seat memorial to Theodore Roosevelt, suitable for hosting inaugurations, possibly on the National Mall or Theodore Roosevelt Island. This attracted the attention of the RMA, which suggested the East Capital location. This would allow the Lincoln Memorial, then under construction west of the Capitol, and the Roosevelt memorial to become bookend monuments to the two great Republican presidents. The effort lost steam when Congress chose not to fund the stadium in time to move the 1932 Olympics from Los Angeles.\n\nThe idea of a stadium gained support in 1938, when Senator Robert Reynolds of North Carolina pushed for the creation of a municipal outdoor stadium within the District, citing the \"fact that America is the only major country not possessing a stadium with facilities to accommodate the Olympic Games\". The following year a model of the proposed stadium, to be located near the current site of RFK Stadium, was presented to the public. A few years later, on December 20, 1944, Congress created a nine-man National Memorial Stadium Commission to study the idea. They intended the stadium to be a memorial to the veterans of the World Wars. The commission wrote a report recommending that a 100,000-seat stadium be built near the site of RFK in time for the 1948 Olympics, but it failed to get funding.\n\nIgnored in the early 1950s, a new stadium again drew interest in 1954. Congressman Charles R. Howell of New Jersey proposed legislation to build a stadium, again with hopes of attracting the Olympics. He pushed for a report, completed in 1956 by the National Capital Planning Commission entitled \"Preliminary Report on Sites for National Memorial Stadium\", which identified the \"East Capitol Site\" to be used for the stadium. In September 1957, \"The District of Columbia Stadium Act\" was introduced and authorized a 50,000-seat stadium to be used by the Senators and Redskins at the Armory site. It was signed into law by President Eisenhower on July 29, 1958, with an estimated cost of $7.5 to $8.6 million. The lease for the stadium was signed by the D.C. Armory Board and the Department of the Interior on December 12, 1958. The stadium, the first major multisport facility built for both football and baseball, was designed by George Dahl, Ewin Engineering Associates and Osborn Engineering. Groundbreaking for the venue was in 1960 on July 8, and construction proceeded over the following 14 months. The existing venue for baseball (and football) in Washington was Griffith Stadium, about northwest.\n\nWhile Redskins’ owner George Preston Marshall was pleased with the stadium, Senators' owner Calvin Griffith was not. It wasn't where he wanted it to be (in Northwest) and he'd have to pay rent and let others run the parking and concessions. The Senators' attendance figures had suffered after the arrival of the Baltimore Orioles in 1954 and Griffith preferred the demographics and profit potential of the Minnesota market. In 1960, when Major League Baseball granted the city of Minneapolis an expansion team, Griffith proposed that he be allowed to move his team to Minneapolis-Saint Paul and give the expansion team to Washington. Upon league approval, the team moved to Minnesota after the 1960 season and Washington fielded a \"new Senators\" team, entering the junior circuit in with the Los Angeles Angels.\n\nThe stadium opened in autumn 1961 as District of Columbia Stadium (often shortened to D.C. Stadium); its first official event was an NFL regular season game on October 1, ten days after the final MLB baseball game at Griffith Stadium. The new venue opened for football even though construction wasn't completed until the following spring. The Redskins lost that game to the New York Giants before 36,767 fans, including President John F. Kennedy. This was slightly more than the attendance record at Griffith Stadium (36,591 on October 26, 1947, vs the Bears). At a college football game labeled the \"Dedication Game\", the stadium was dedicated on October 7. George Washington became the first home team to win at the stadium with a defeat of VMI. Its first sell-out came on November 23, 1961, for the first of the annual Thanksgiving Day high school football games between the public school champion, Eastern, and the Catholic school champion, St. John's, which was won by Eastern, \n\nThe first major league baseball game was on April 9, 1962 (after two exhibition games against the Pirates had been cancelled). President Kennedy threw out the ceremonial first pitch in front of 44,383 fans who watched the Senators defeat the Detroit Tigers and shortstop Bob Johnson hit the first The previous baseball attendance record was 38,701 at Griffith Stadium on October 11, 1925, at the fourth game of the World Series. The attendance figure was the largest ever for a professional sports event in Washington. The previous largest opening day figure was 31,728 (April 19, 1948).\n\nWhen it opened, D.C. Stadium hosted the Redskins, Senators, and the GWU Colonial football team, all of whom had previously used Griffith Stadium. The Colonials disbanded their football team after the 1966 season, and the Senators left in the fall of 1971 for and became the Texas Rangers in Arlington in 1972.\n\nFrom 1961 to 1963, D.C. Stadium hosted the annual City Title game, matching the D.C. public school champion and the winner of the area's premier Catholic league, played before capacity crowds on Thanksgiving Day. The 1963 game between St. John's, a predominantly white school in Northwest D.C., and Eastern, a majority black school just blocks from the stadium, ended in a racially motivated riot, only three days after the funeral of President Kennedy. The City Title game for 1964 was cancelled and never played again.\n\nIn 1964, the stadium emerged as an element in the Bobby Baker bribery scandal. Don B. Reynolds, a Maryland insurance businessman, made a statement in August 1964 which he claimed that Matthew McCloskey, a former Democratic National Committee chairman and Kennedy's ambassador to Ireland, paid a $25,000 kickback through Reynolds and at the instruction of Baker to the Kennedy-Johnson campaign as payback for the stadium construction contract. Baker later went to jail for tax fraud, and the FBI investigated the awarding of the stadium contract, although McClosley was never charged.\n\nThe stadium was renamed in January 1969 for U.S. Senator and presidential candidate Robert F. Kennedy, who had been assassinated in Los Angeles seven months earlier. The announcement was made by Secretary of the Interior Stewart Udall on January 18, in the last days of the Johnson Administration. The dedication ceremony at the stadium was held several months later on June 7.\n\nThe Senators' final game was at RFK on Thursday night, September 30, 1971, with less than 15,000 in attendance. Rains from Hurricane Ginger threatened the event, but the game proceeded. Fan favorite Frank \"Hondo\" Howard hit a home run (RFK's last until 2005) in the sixth inning to spark a four-run rally to tie the game; the Senators scored two more in the eighth to go up but the game was forfeited to the Yankees after unruly fans stormed the field with two outs in the top of the ninth. Subsequent efforts to bring baseball back to RFK, including an attempt to attract the San Diego Padres in , and a plan to have the nearby Baltimore Orioles play eleven home games there in 1976, all failed. The former was derailed by lease issues with the city in San Diego, and the latter was shot down by commissioner Bowie Kuhn, who wanted to bring one of four expansion teams instead. The expansion for was later reduced to two teams, Toronto and Seattle, and the next wasn't until .\n\nFor much of the 1970s and 1980s, RFK was primarily known as the home of the Redskins, where they played during their three Super Bowl championship seasons. It also hosted several short-lived professional soccer teams and in 1983–1984 the Washington Federals of the USFL. In 1980, it hosted the Soccer Bowl, the championship game of the NASL.\n\nMajor changes to the stadium came in 1996. Following the success of hosting matches in the 1994 World Cup and 1996 Summer Olympics, RFK became home to one of the charter teams of the new Major League Soccer. On April 20, 1996 it played host to the first home match of D.C. United, a 2–1 loss to the LA Galaxy.\n\nHowever, later that year the stadium hosted the Redskins' final home game in Washington, DC. After nearly a decade of negotiating for a new stadium with Mayors Sharon Pratt Kelly and Marion Barry, abandoning them in 1992 and 1993 in search of a suburban site and then having a 1994 agreement collapse in the face of neighborhood complaints, environmental concerns and a dispute in Congress (over what some members viewed as the team's racially insensitive name and the use of federal land for private profit), Jack Kent Cooke decided to move his team to Maryland. On December 22, 1996, the Redskins won their last game at RFK Stadium 37-10 over the Dallas Cowboys, reprising their first win there in 1961, before 65,454, the largest football crowd in stadium history. The Redskins then moved east to FedExField in 1997, leaving D.C. United as the stadium's only major tenant for much of the next decade, though from 2001 to 2003 they were joined by the Washington Freedom of the short-lived Women's United Soccer Association.\n\nAfter hosting 16 exhibition games after the Senators' departure, baseball returned to RFK on a temporary basis in 2005. That year the National League's newly renamed Washington Nationals made it their home while a new permanent home, Nationals Park, was constructed. On April 14, 2005, before a crowd of 45,496 including President Bush and MLB Commissioner Bud Selig, the Nationals beat the Arizona Diamondbacks 5-3 victory in their first game at RFK. President George W. Bush, formerly a part-owner of the Texas Rangers (the former Senators), threw out the first pitch becoming the last president, and the first since Richard Nixon, to do so in RFK Stadium. The last MLB game at RFK, a 5-3 Nationals win over the Phillies, was played on September 23, 2007 and in 2008 the Nationals moved to their new stadium.\n\nIn 2008, RFK was once again primarily the host of D.C. United, though it also hosted a college football bowl game, the Military Bowl, from 2008 to 2012, before it moved in 2013 to in Annapolis, Maryland. On July 25, 2013, the District of Columbia and D.C. United announced a tentative deal to build a $300 million, 20,000–25,000 seat stadium at Buzzard Point. Groundbreaking on the new soccer stadium, Audi Field, occurred in February 2017 (and was completed the following July) and on October 22, 2017 RFK hosted its last MLS match, a 2-1 loss to the New York Red Bulls.\n\nThe stadium opened in October 1961 named the District of Columbia Stadium, but the media quickly shortened that to D.C. Stadium and sometimes, in the early days, as \"Washington Stadium\". On January 18, 1969, in the last days of the Johnson Administration, Secretary of the Interior Stewart Udall announced that the stadium would be renamed Robert F. Kennedy Memorial Stadium, in Kennedy's honor. The official renaming ceremony was held but by then many had already been referring to it as \"RFK Stadium\" or simply \"RFK\". Coincidentally, following the death of John F. Kennedy in 1963, the Armory Board had directed that the stadium be renamed for him, but the plan faltered when a few weeks later the Philadelphia city council passed a bill renaming Philadelphia Stadium as \"John F. Kennedy Stadium\".\n\nRobert Kennedy was not without connection to the stadium; as attorney general in the early 1960s, his Justice Department played a role in the Redskins' racial integration. Along with Udall, Kennedy threatened to revoke the team's lease at the federally owned stadium until it promised to sign African American players. His brother John attended the first event there and threw out the first pitch. In 2008, a nearby bridge was renamed for Ethel Kennedy, Robert Kennedy's wife.\n\nOn April 14, 2005, just before the Nationals' home opener, the D.C. Sports and Entertainment Commission announced an agreement with the Department of Defense under which the military would pay the city about $6 million for naming rights and the right to place recruiting kiosks and signage in the stadium. In return, the stadium would be dubbed \"Armed Forces Field at RFK Stadium\". This plan was dropped within days, however, after several prominent members of Congress questioned the use of public funds for a stadium sponsorship.\n\nSimilar proposals to sell the naming rights to the National Guard, ProFunds (a Bethesda, Maryland investment company), and Sony were formed and discarded in 2005 and 2006.\n\nRFK Stadium was home to the Redskins for 36 seasons, from 1961 through 1996. The football field was aligned northwest to southeast, along the first base line.\n\nThe Redskins' first game in D.C. Stadium was its first event, a 24–21 loss to the New York Giants on October 1, 1961. The first win in the stadium came at the end of the season on December 17, over its future archival, the struggling second-year Dallas Cowboys. The Redskins played 266 regular season games at RFK, compiling a record, including an impressive record in the playoffs.\n\nIn its twelfth season, RFK hosted its first professional football playoff game on Christmas Eve 1972, a 16–3 Redskins' win over the Green Bay Packers. It was the city's first postseason game in three decades, following the NFL championship game victory in 1942. The stadium hosted the NFC Championship Game five times (1972, 1982, 1983, 1987, and 1991), 2nd only to Candlestick Park, and the Redskins won them all. They are the only team to win five NFC titles at the same stadium. In the subsequent Super Bowls, Washington won three (XVII, XXII, XXVI).\n\nThe Redskins' last game at the stadium was a victory, as 56,454 saw a win over the division champion Cowboys on December 22, 1996.\n\nD.C. United of Major League Soccer played nearly 450 matches at RFK Stadium from the team's debut in 1996 until 2017, when they moved to a new stadium. During that time, RFK hosted three MLS Cup finals, including the 1997 match won by D.C. United. With its new stadium, Audi Field, due to open on July 14, 2018, D.C. United played its final game at RFK on October 22, 2017, completing 22 seasons at the stadium, during which the team won four league titles. At the time, RFK Stadium was the longest-used stadium in MLS and the only one left from the league's debut season. When they shared the stadium with the Nationals from 2005 to 2007, the playing surface drew criticism along with the dimensions of the field that resulted from baseball use. D.C. United′s departure left RFK with no professional sports tenant, however after moving to Audi Field, D.C. United continued to use the outer practice fields at RFK for training and leased locker room and basement space there.\n\nThe expansion Washington Senators of the American League played at RFK Stadium from 1962 through 1971. They played their first season in 1961 at Griffith Stadium.\n\nIn its ten seasons as the Senators' home field, RFK Stadium was known as a hitters' park, aided by the stagnant heat (and humidity) of Washington summers. Slugger Frank Howard, (, ), hit a number of tape-measure home runs, few of which landed in the center field area of the upper deck. The seats he hit with his home runs are painted white, rather than the gold of the rest of the upper deck. Howard came to the Senators from the Los Angeles Dodgers in 1965. He hit the Senators′ final RFK homer, in the sixth inning on September 30, 1971. With two outs in the top of the ninth, a fan riot turned a 7–5 Senators lead over the New York Yankees into a 9–0 forfeit loss, the first in the majors in 17 years.\n\nThese Senators' only winning season came in 1969 at ; they never made the postseason. They had a home record at RFK of . The stadium hosted the All-Star Game twice, in 1962 (first of two) and 1969, both won by the visiting National League. Presidents Kennedy, Johnson and Nixon all attended games there. President Johnson was scheduled to throw out the first pitch in 1968, but the opening game was delayed following the assassination of Martin Luther King, Jr., so Vice President Hubert Humphrey got the privilege. President Nixon was to throw out the first ball at the 1969 game to celebrate baseball's centennial, but it was postponed due to rain and so Nixon chose instead to greet the Apollo 11 astronauts. Vice President Spiro Agnew filled in.\n\nBetween 1974 and 1990, three soccer teams played at RFK under the name Washington Diplomats. In 1974, two Maryland businessmen purchased the rights to the Baltimore Bays of the semi-professional American Soccer League, moved the team to the District and renamed it the Washington Diplomats. They signed a lease calculating that an average of 12,000 spectators would allow them to break even. Despite white flight, owners thought that recent completion of the Beltway, the stadium's 12,000 parking spaces, and future completion of a Metro station would facilitate attendance. Games were scheduled for Saturday and prices were set low. The Diplomats inaugural game was on May 4 with an attendance of 10,175; Mayor Walter Washington ceremonially kicked off the game, but the Dips lost 5–1 to the defending NASL champion Philadelphia Atoms. Attendance dropped over the course of the season.\n\nIn 1975, the Diplomats were informed that the recently installed natural turf at RFK would not be ready for opening day, so they scheduled their first two home games that season for W.T. Woodson High School in Fairfax, Virginia. After the games attracted more than 10,000 fans each, the Diplomats moved most of their home games to Woodson, but then moved the last five back to RFK once soccer superstar Pelé was added to the roster of the New York Cosmos. Pelé was so popular that the 1975 Cosmos-Diplomats match broke the NASL attendance record at 35,620. Despite the success of the Cosmos game, attendance declined again and prior to the 1976 season the Diplomats announced that they had scheduled every home game, except the one against the Cosmos, at Woodson. During the season, they moved that game to Woodson.\n\nAfter averaging 5,963 at Woodson, the Diplomats decided to ramp up their marketing and move back to RFK in 1977. Despite changes to everything from uniforms to the cheerleaders, the team's disappointing on-the-field performance hurt attendance (a ~31,000 fan game against Pelé and the Cosmos notwithstanding). In 1978, attendance continued to fall, even though the Dips made the playoffs. Despite success on the field during the 1978 and 1979 seasons (including a franchise-best 19 wins in '79) and a negligible amount of revenue from “indoor Dips” games at the D.C. Armory during the offseason, the franchise continued to lose money.\n\nIn 1980, they signed Dutch international superstar Johan Cruyff, the Pelé of the Potomac, from the Los Angeles Aztecs. Needing 20,000 fans per game to break even, they managed to attract 24,000 for the opener and a District record 53,351 for the game against the Pele-less Cosmos (the fifth-largest soccer crowd at RFK ever), but the team failed to break-even financially. After racking up debts of $5 million, the first incarnation of the Dips folded.\n\nThree months later, the Detroit Express announced a move to D.C. for 1981, and that they would also be the Diplomats. They had trouble attracting fans; and soon folded. The Diplomats of the NASL, racked up an impressive record at RFK and were in the playoffs.\n\nIn 1987, a new soccer team, also called the Washington Diplomats, was formed. They played at RFK, and sometimes at the RFK auxiliary field, for three seasons as part of the ASL and then the APSL. They won the ASL Championship in 1988, but often drew fewer than 1000 fans. In 1990 they finished last in the Southern Division of the APSL East, were unable to pay the rent and folded in October 1990.\n\nThe other team to move from Griffith to D.C. Stadium was the George Washington University Colonials college football team. The stadium was dedicated during the October 7, 1961 game against VMI, the first college football game there, which GWU won 30-6. The Colonials were forced to play their first three games on the road to allow the stadium to be completed. In following years, because the Senators had priority, GWU waited until October (when baseball season was over) to schedule games. From 1961 to 1964 they played road games in September, and in 1965 and 1966 they played at high school stadiums in Arlington and Alexandria, Virginia.\n\nThe Colonials had no real success at D.C. Stadium. GWU was during its D.C. Stadium years and never posted a winning record. The Colonials were 11–13 at D.C. Stadium, facing off against Army twice and against a Liberty Bowl-bound West Virginia in 1964 (all losses). Perhaps their biggest win was the 1964 upset of Villanova, which came to Washington with a 6–1 record. Sophomore quarterback Garry Lyle, the school's last NFL draftee, led the Colonials to a \n\nThe final George Washington football game to date, and the last at D.C. Stadium, came on Thanksgiving Day, November 24, 1966, when the team lost to , 16–7.\n\nAfter the season was over, GW President Dr. Lloyd H. Elliott chose to reevaluate GW's football program. On December 19, 1966, head coach Jim Camp, conference coach of the year, resigned citing the uncertainty. The next day, a member of the Board of Trustees announced that the school would drop football. On January 19, 1967, the decision became official. GW decided to use the football program's funding to build a new field house for the basketball team. Poor game attendance and the expense, estimated at $254,000 during the 1966 season, contributed to the decision. Former GW player Harry Ledford believed that most people were unwilling to drive on Friday nights to D.C. Stadium, which was perceived as an unsafe area and lacked rail transit. Maryland and Virginia were nationally competitive teams that drew potential suburban spectators away from GW.\n\nAfter playing as the Montreal Expos from 1969 to 2004, the Expos franchise moved to Washington, D.C., to become the Washington Nationals for the 2005 season. The Nationals played their first three seasons (2005–2007) at RFK, then moved to Nationals Park in 2008. While the Nationals played at RFK, it was the fourth-oldest active stadium in the majors, behind Fenway Park, Wrigley Field and Yankee Stadium.\n\nDuring the Nationals′ three season there, RFK then became known as a pitchers' park. While Frank Howard hit at least 44 home runs for three straight seasons at RFK for the second Washington Senators franchise from 1968 through 1970, the 2005 Nationals had only one hitter with more than 15 home runs, José Guillén with 24. However, in his lone season with the team in 2006, Alfonso Soriano hit 46 home runs.\n\nDuring their three seasons at RFK the Nationals failed to make the playoffs or post a winning record.\n\nNo team has a longer history with RFK Stadium than the Howard Bison football team, who played there 42 times over 46 years. Between their first game in 1970 and last in 2016, they earned a record, winning more games at RFK than any other college football program.\n\nLooking to play on a bigger stage than Howard Stadium, they began scheduling games at RFK. Howard's first RFK game was a 24–7 victory over Fisk on October 24, 1970. From 1974 to 1976, Howard played all but one of their home games at RFK and in 1977 they played half their home games there. After the 1977 season they returned to Howard Stadium, but continued to play their annual homecoming game at RFK through 1985. After the 1985 season, Howard Stadium was refurbished, and renamed, and for the next 7 years Howard played all of their home games there.\n\nIn 1992 they returned to RFK for a game against Bowie State that was marked by taunting and a game-ending scuffle. From 1993 to 1999 Howard played at least one game a year at RFK including the Greater Washington Urban League Classic, at one point called the Hampton-Howard Classic, against Hampton from 1994 to 1999. In 2000 that game moved to Giants Stadium and Howard spent more than a decade away from RFK.\n\nStarting in 2011 and through the 2016 season, Howard played in the Nation's Football Classic at RFK, matching up against Morehouse at first and then Hampton again. In 2017, Events DC announced that they would discontinue the Classic and thus the last Bison game at RFK Stadium was a 34-7 loss to Hampton on September 16, 2016.\n\nFor three seasons, RFK was home to the Women's United Soccer Association Washington team, the Washington Freedom. On April 14, 2001, the Freedom defeated the Bay Area CyberRays 1-0 in WUSA's inaugural match before 34,198 fans, the largest crowd in WUSA history and the largest crowd to watch a women's professional sports event in DC history (the largest crowd for a women's sporting event was 45,946 for the 1996 women's Olympic soccer tournament, also at RFK). Over three years, the Freedom racked up a 15-9-6 record at RFK and finished as one of the league's top teams. They came in 2nd in 2002 and won the league's Founder's Cup in 2003. They played all of their home games at RFK, except for one in 2001 at Navy-Marine Corps Memorial Stadium in Annapolis to avoid the Washington Grand Prix. Their last game at RFK as part of WUSA was on August 2, 2003 when they defeated the San Jose Cyber Rays. They won the final Founder's Cup in August 2003 and returned to RFK a few days later - minus the players who were playing in the 2003 Women's World Cup - for a victory celebration with the fans, which would be their final WUSA event at RFK. WUSA suspended operation the next month. Their victory in the Founders Cup means that the Freedom won both the first and last games in WUSA history. For a time, their championship banner hung in RFK, but when the Nationals moved in, the banner was moved to the Maryland Soccerplex.\n\nThe Freedom continued, first as exhibition team called the Washington Freedom Soccer Club, and then as a member of the W-League and the Women's Professional Soccer league in 2006. Their home stadium was the Maryland Soccerplex, but they continued to play a few games at RFK. In 2004, the played an exhibition at Nottingham Forest, which they won 8-0. They returned again on June 22, 2008 in a W-League match, which they won 5-0, against the Richmond Kickers Destiny that was part of a doubleheader with DC United. In 2009, the Freedom moved to the WPS and while they continued to play most of their home games in Maryland, they played 3 of 10 home games at RFK in 2009 and one game there in 2010. In the years after WUSA suspended operations, the Freedom went 5-0-1 at RFK, bringing their combined RFK total to 20-9-7. After the 2010 season, the Freedom's owners had had enough, and sold the team to Dan Borislow, owner of the phone service MagicJack. He moved them to Boca Raton, Florida for the team's last season. The Freedom's final game at RFK was a 3-1 victory over Saint Louis Athletica on May 1, 2010.\n\nIn 1967, D.C. Stadium became the home of its first professional soccer team, the Washington Whips. They played 23 regular season games at D.C. Stadium over 16 months, putting together a 13-5-5 home record as well as losing an exhibition against Pele's Santos Club. 20,189 fans attended the Santos exhibition, more than three times as large as a typical Whips match, making it the most heavily attended soccer game in DC history at the time. The game was heavily promoted in the local press and the Whips, who were struggling to attract fans to their regular matches, provided additional incentive through a “Meet Pele” contest.\n\nRFK served as the venue for the inaugural match of the United Soccer Association (USA), a May 26, 1967 match between the Whips and the Cleveland Stokers, won by the Stokers.\n\nIn their first season, the Whips were one of the league's top teams and they were staffed by the Aberdeen Football Club of the Scottish Football League, or the Aberdeen Dons. They finished 5–2–5, good enough to win the Eastern Division and play for the USA Championship against the Los Angeles Wolves.\n\nThe owners estimated that they needed to attract 16,000 fans per game, but they never broke 10,000 and averaged only 6,200. Towards the end of the 1967 season, the Whips resorted to organizing British Isles sporting contests such as cricket, hurling, and rugby before games in hopes of luring expatriates.\n\nIn 1968, in order to stay viable, they negotiated a reduction in the lease payment and reduced admission prices by one-third; among other discounts. The USA merged with the National Professional Soccer League to form the new North American Soccer League. Despite problems on and off the field, the team found itself in a battle for a playoff spot and towards the end of the season crowds swelled to as much as 14,227 in what proved to be the deciding match for the NASL Atlantic Division title. This September 7, 1968 match against the Atlanta Chiefs was the last for the Whips at D.C. Stadium. That season, the team went 15-10-7 drawing an average of 6,586 fans. After a tour of Europe, the Whips folded in October 1968.\n\nWashington's only USFL team, the Washington Federals, played two seasons at RFK and during that time, they had the league's worst record each season, and, in 1984, the lowest per-game attendance. For the opening game, 38,000 fans showed up to see the return of former Redskins coach George Allen, the coach of the Chicago Blitz, in a game the Federals lost, 28–7. But attendance quickly dropped off, with as few as 7,303 showing up for a late-season game against the Boston Breakers. The team went 4-14 in 1983 and 3-15 in 1984, averaging 7,700 fans. \n\nWith six games remaining in the 1984 season, owner Berl Bernhard sold the team to Florida real estate developer Woody Weiser. In the off-season, that deal fell through. Donald Dizney bought the team, moved it to Orlando and renamed it the Renegades.\n\nAfter going 7–29 overall, and 5-18 at RFK, the Federals ended their run with a 20-17 win over the New Orleans Breakers on June 24, 1984.\n\nTeam America was a professional version of the United States men's national soccer team which played as a franchise in the North American Soccer League (NASL) during the 1983 season. The team played its home games at RFK Stadium, and was intended by the NASL and the United States Soccer Federation to build fan support for the league and create a cohesive and internationally competitive national team. However, the team finished in last place drawing 12,000 fans per game.\n\nTeam America played 19 games at RFK. In those games they went 5-10 in NASL matches and tied three friendlies against Watford F.C. (from the United Kingdom), FC Dinamo Minsk (from the Soviet Union), and Juventus F.C. (from Italy).\n\nThe team's attendance averaged 19,952 through the first seven home matches. including the 50,108 who attended a match vs. Fort Lauderdale that featured a free Beach Boys concert. Losses led to declining attendance as the season wore on. Attendance averaged 13,002 for the entire 1983 season, after which the team disbanded after a single season of play.\n\nThe stadium's design was circular, attempting to facilitate both football and baseball. It was the first to use the so-called \"cookie-cutter\" concept, an approach also used in Philadelphia, New York, Houston, Atlanta, St. Louis, San Diego, Cincinnati, Oakland, and Pittsburgh. RFK Stadium ultimately outlasted all of them except Houston, San Diego, and Oakland (the former is still standing but is no longer actively used, while the latter two are still active).\n\nIn 1961, the stadium represented a new level of luxury. It offered 50,000 seats, each wide (at a time when the typical seat was only ), air-conditioned locker rooms and a lounge for player's wives. It had a machine-operated tarpaulin to cover the field, yard-wide aisles, and ramps that made it possible to empty the stadium in just 15 minutes. The ticket office was connected to the ticket windows by pneumatic tubes. The press boxes could be enclosed and expanded for big events. The stadium had a holding cell for drunks and brawlers. It had 12,000 parking spaces and was served by 300 buses. It had lighting that was twice as bright as Griffith Stadium.\n\nIt was not ideal for either sport, due to the different geometries of the playing fields. As the playing field dimensions for football and baseball vary greatly, seating had to accommodate the larger playing surface. This would prove to be the case at nearly every multi-purpose/cookie-cutter stadium.\n\nAs a baseball park, RFK was a target of scorn from baseball purists, largely because it was one of the few stadiums with no lower-deck seats in the outfield. The only outfield seats were in the upper deck, above a high wall. According to \"Sporting News\" publications in the 1960s, over 27,000 seats—roughly 60% of the listed capacity of 45,000 for baseball—were in the upper tier or mezzanine levels. The lower-to-upper proportion improved for the Redskins with end-zone seats. The first ten rows of the football configuration were nearly at field level, making it difficult to see over the players. The baseball diamond was aligned due east (home plate to center field), and the football field ran along the first base line (northwest to southeast).\n\nA complex conversion was necessary, at a cost of $40,000 each time, to change the stadium from a football configuration to baseball and back again; in its final form, this included rolling the third-base lower-level seats into the outfield along a buried rail, dropping the hydraulic pitcher's mound into the ground, and laying sod over the infield dirt. Later facilities were designed so the seating configuration could be changed more quickly and at a lower cost. The conversion was required several times per year during the Senators' joint tenancy with the Redskins (1962–71), but became much more frequent during the Nationals/D.C. United era; in 2005, the conversion was made over twenty times.\n\nOriginally the seats located behind the stadium's third-base dugout were removed for baseball games and put back in place when the stadium was converted to the football (and later soccer) configuration. When these sections were in place, RFK seated approximately 56,000. With the Nationals' arrival in 2005, this particular segment of the stands was permanently removed to facilitate the switch between the baseball and soccer configurations. These seats were not restored following the Nationals' move to Nationals Park, leaving the stadium's seating capacity at approximately 46,000. The majority of the upper-deck seats normally were not made available for D.C. United matches, so the stadium's reduced capacity normally was not problematic for the club.\nDuring the years when the stadium was without baseball (1972–2004), the rotating seats remained in the football configuration. If an exhibition baseball game was scheduled, the left-field wall was only from home plate, and a large screen was erected in left field for some games.\nSome of RFK's quirks endear the venue to fans and players. The large rolling bleacher section is less stable than other seating, allowing fans to jump in rhythm to cause the whole area to bounce. Also, despite its small size (it never seated more than 58,000), because of the stadium's design and the proximity of the fans to the field when configured for football, the stadium was extremely loud when the usual sell-out Redskins crowds became vocal. Legend has it that Redskins head coach George Allen would order a large rolling door in the side of the stadium to be opened when visiting teams were attempting field goals at critical moments in games so that a swirling wind from off the Potomac and Anacostia rivers might interfere with the flight of the kicked ball.\n\nSince the stadium is on a direct sight line with the Washington Monument and the U.S. Capitol, light towers were not allowed; instead, arc lights were placed on its curved, dipping roof.\n\nEvents D.C.—the city agency which operates RFK Stadium—began a strategic planning process in November 2013 to study options for the future of the stadium, its campus, and the nonmilitary portions of the adjacent D.C. Armory. Events D.C. said one option to be studied was demolition within a decade, while another would be the status quo. The strategic planning process also included design and development of options. The agency said that RFK Stadium has generated $4 million to $5 million a year in revenues since 1997, which did not cover operating expenses. In August 2014, Events D.C. chose the consulting firm of Brailsford & Dunlavey to create the master plan.\n\nThe dimensions of the baseball field were down the foul lines, to the power alleys and to center field during the Senators' time. The official distances when the Nationals arrived were identical, except for two additional feet to center field. After complaints from Nationals hitters it was discovered in July 2005 that the fence had actually been put in place incorrectly, and it was to the power alleys in left; to the right-field power alley; and to center field. The section of wall containing the sign was moved closer to the foul lines to more accurately represent the distance shown on the signs but no changes were made to the actual dimensions.\n\nThe approximate elevation of the playing field is above sea level.\n\nTwo major league teams called RFK home, the Senators (1962–71) and the Nationals (2005–07). In between, the stadium hosted an assortment of exhibition games, old-timer games, and at least one college baseball exhibition game. In addition, from 1988 to 1991 the RFK auxiliary field served as the home stadium of the George Washington Colonials college baseball team, and hosted some Howard University and Interhigh League and D.C. Interscholastic Athletic Association championship baseball games.\n\n\nRFK was the home of two professional football teams, two college football teams, a bowl game and more than one college all-star game. It hosted neutral-site college football games, various HBCU games, and high school championship games.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nRFK has occasionally hosted high school football games, but never has done so regularly. On August 14, 2018, DC Events announced the DC Events Kickoff Classic, a football tripleheader featuring six Washington, D.C., high schools, with games between Dunbar and Maret, Archbishop Carroll and Woodrow Wilson, and Friendship Collegiate Academy and H. D. Woodson. The Classic was scheduled for September 15, 2018, and DC Events indicated that it would become an annual event if attendance at the inaugural Classic was high enough.\n\nAlthough not designed for soccer, RFK Stadium, starting in the mid-1970s, became a center of American soccer, rivaled only by the Rose Bowl in Pasadena, California, in terms of its history as a soccer venue. It is the only facility in the world to have hosted the FIFA World Cup (in 1994), the FIFA Women's World Cup (in 2003), Olympic group stages for men and women (in 1996), the MLS Cup (in 1997, 2000, and 2007), the North American Soccer League's Soccer Bowl (in 1980) and CONCACAF Champions' Cup matches (in 1988 and 1998). The United States men's national soccer team played more of its matches at RFK stadium than at any other site, and D.C. United played 347 regular-season matches there.\n\nIn addition to being the home stadium of DC United, the Diplomats, the Freedom, the Whips and Team America, RFK also hosted three friendly Washington Darts games in 1970.\n\nNotable soccer dates at the stadium include:\n\nRFK hosted at least two college soccer games, once when Maryland moved their game there due to wet field conditions at Ludwig Field and again for a scheduled game following their national championship season. It has hosted several other Maryland games at the auxiliary field.\n\n\nThe United States men's national soccer team has played more games at RFK Stadium than any other stadium. At times it was suggested that due to the nature of RFK and its quirkiness that it would be a suitable national stadium if US Soccer were ever to seek one out. Several prominent members of the national team have scored at RFK, including Brian McBride, Cobi Jones, Eric Wynalda, Joe-Max Moore, Clint Dempsey, Michael Bradley, and Landon Donovan. Winners are listed first.\nLate on May 22, 1993, nine thousand saw Riddick Bowe record a second-round knockout over Jesse Ferguson to retain his WBA heavyweight On the same day Roy Jones recorded a unanimous decision over Bernard Hopkins to capture the vacant IBF middleweight title.\n\nOn July 21, 2002, the American Le Mans Series held its first event in Washington, D.C. The Grand Prix of Washington, D.C. was run on a temporary circuit laid out in the RFK stadium parking lot, and was the first major motor sports event held in the District of Columbia in 80 years. Prior to the race, residents living near the stadium were concerned about traffic, parking, and the noise the lengthy event would create. Citizens were outraged when they learned that District officials had ignored laws and regulations requiring an environmental impact assessment for the race, and that Le Mans officials had lied to the city about noise levels. Local citizens were further angered when American Le Mans racing officials reneged on a promise to remove the Jersey barriers outlining the racecourse from stadium parking lots, leaving the unsightly structures behind and preventing the lots from being used for parking. When the American Le Mans organization tried to hold a second race at RFK in 2003, outraged residents successfully forced D.C. officials to cancel the city's ten-year lease with the company (no more races were ever held).\n\nThe final stage of the 1992 Tour DuPont was a time trial from RFK to Rock Creek Park and back. Greg LeMond came in third for the stage and won the Tour, the last major win of his career. He won $50,000 and a kiss from Mayor Sharon Pratt Kelly. Steve Hegg won the stage.\n\nOn 26 February 2018, it was announced that Wales national rugby union team would play a \"ground-breaking fixture\" against South Africa national rugby union team at RFK Stadium on 2 June 2018. It was \"Wales’ fifth test on US soil, the previous four outings all against the United States national rugby union team.\" Wales ran out winners 22-20 in front of a crowd of 21,357.\n\nThe Beatles performed a concert here in August, 1966.\n\nPink Floyd performed a concert here on 1 June 1988 as part of their A Momentary Lapse of Reason Tour and two concets on 9 and 10 July 1994 as part of their The Division Bell Tour.\n\nFrom 1993 to 1999 and from 2001 to 2004, rock radio station WHFS held its annual HFStival rock concert at RFK Stadium.\n\nOn July 4, 2015, the Foo Fighters held their 20th Anniversary concert at RFK Stadium.\n\n\nThe stadium was prominently featured in the climax of the film \"\", released in May 2014. In the film, Magneto uses his powers to place the stadium as a barricade around the White House; the stadium is partially damaged. At the end of the film, a newspaper article announces the stadium is to begin reconstruction. (RFK is shown being prepped for a baseball game; however, the movie is set in 1973, two years after the Senators left for Texas.)\n\nDuring the Redskins' tenure, the Washington Hall of Stars was displayed on a series of white-and-red signs hung in a ring around the stadium's mezzanine, honoring D.C. sports greats from various sports. With the reconfiguration of the stadium, it was replaced by a series of dark-green banners over the center-field and right-field fences in order to make room for out-of-town scoreboards and advertising signage. There are 15 separate panels honoring 82 figures. Nationals Park also hosts a smaller version of the display.\n\nTo the right of Panel 15 are four banners honoring D.C. United's MLS Cup wins: 1996, 1997, 1999 and 2004. To the right of these banners is D.C. United's \"Tradition of Excellence\" banner, which honors John Harkes and Marco Etcheverry. To the left of those banners are four banners honoring D.C. United's MLS Supporters Shield wins: 1997, 1999, 2006 and 2007.\n\nRFK Stadium is within of and easily accessible from the Stadium-Armory station of the Washington Metro. The station is served by the Blue, Orange, and Silver Lines. It is also served directly by Metrobus lines B2, D6, E32 (at Eastern High School), 96 and 97.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "38352661", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38352661", "title": "Romain Marchessou", "text": "Romain Marchessou\n\nRomain Marchessou (born September 9, 1985) is a Monegasque weightlifter. Marchessou represented Monaco at the 2008 Summer Olympics in Beijing, where he competed for the men's middleweight category (77 kg). Marchessou placed twenty-fourth in this event, as he successfully lifted 110 kg in the single-motion snatch, and hoisted 140 kg in the two-part, shoulder-to-overhead clean and jerk, for a total of 250 kg.\n\n"}
{"id": "35489945", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35489945", "title": "Rosanan Samak", "text": "Rosanan Samak\n\nHaji Mohammad Rosanan bin Abdullah Samak (born 18 July 1965) is a Bruneian football coach and former player, who played as a striker most notably with the Brunei team that played in the Malaysian league in the 1990s. He was a member of the team that won the 1999 Malaysia Cup, which is regarded as Brunei football's crowning achievement.\n\nRosanan started his career with the Bruneian team Kota Ranger FC, the team won the domestic championship in 1987 and participated in that year's Asian Champions' Cup (an early edition of the AFC Champions League). At the turn of the decade, he was selected to play for the Brunei team competing in Liga Semi-Pro Malaysia. His 10-year career with the Wasps culminated in the shock 2-1 win against Sarawak in the final of the 1999 Malaysia Cup. This achievement was chronicled in \"FIFA 192: The True Story Behind the Legend of Brunei Darussalam National Football Team\", a book by British author Stanley Park.\n\nRosanan left the national representative side in 2000. He returned to Kota Ranger as player-coach a year later, and was also given opportunities to coach Bruneian exhibition sides at the time. He hung up his boots in 2003 and moved to AH United a year later, starting a six-year tenure in which he won the Brunei FA Cup in 2006.\n\nHired by BAFA as a coach in 2009, Rosanan was assigned various coaching positions since, such as the Brunei Youth Team that played in the domestic league (2009–2011), the Under-21s (2012), and the Under-15s as assistant coach (2013). He was assistant to Kwon Oh-son for the Hassanal Bolkiah Trophy competitions for the U21s in 2012 and 2014.\n\nRosanan played for Brunei's national team at the 1999 SEA Games held at home, and played all six matches at the 2002 World Cup qualifying campaign without scoring a goal.\n\n"}
{"id": "21242029", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21242029", "title": "SC de Bafatá", "text": "SC de Bafatá\n\nSporting Clube de Bafatá is a Guinea-Bissauan football club based in Bafatá. They play in the top division in Guinean football, the Campeonato Nacional da Guiné-Bissau.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "5795627", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5795627", "title": "Southern Masters Cycling Club", "text": "Southern Masters Cycling Club\n\nThe Southern Masters Cycling Club in Melbourne, Australia is a bicycle road racing club for veteran riders. Cyclists become eligible for membership at the age of 35 for males, and 30 years for females. The club is the largest Veterans cycling club in Australia. In 2006, there are over 350 members.\n\nThe club's first official meeting was held on 23 March 1975. In the late seventies the Southern Veterans Cycling Club formed the Veteran Cycling Association of Victoria, which later became the Victorian Veterans Cycling Council (VVCC).\n\nThe club changed its affiliation from the VVCC to Cycling Australia, which is affiliated to the Union Cycliste Internationale (UCI), at a special general meeting held on 29 September 2008.\n\nThe club subsequently changed its name from \"Southern Veterans Cycling Club\" to \"Southern Masters Cycling Club\".\n\nThe types of races the club provides are:\n\n\nRacing is conducted all year round.\n\nIn winter, racing is based around the Mornington Peninsula and West Gippsland from April to September. These races are held on public roads for which all necessary permits are obtained. Distances vary depending on the course but are generally in the range 50–80 km.\n\nThe summer season, from October to March, is criterium races, which usually last from 1 to 2 hours.\n\nThe club caters for a wide range in age and ability of competing riders with grades A to G. Riders are only grouped according to their age championship races which are held twice a year (for both the criterium and road seasons) at club, state and national level.\n\n"}
{"id": "4220927", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4220927", "title": "St. Moritz Olympic Ice Rink", "text": "St. Moritz Olympic Ice Rink\n\nSt. Moritz Olympic Ice Rink () is an outdoor stadium in St. Moritz, Switzerland. It was the venue for the ice hockey, speedskating and figure skating events, as well as the location of the opening and closing ceremonies at the 1928 Winter Olympics and 1948 Winter Olympics.\n\nArtist and designer Rolf Sachs now owns the stadium's former land, and the building containing the changing facilities for athletes and officials and observation facility serves as his personal home.\n"}
{"id": "6170801", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6170801", "title": "Station Road, Swinton", "text": "Station Road, Swinton\n\nStation Road was a stadium in Pendlebury, near Manchester, England. It was the home of Swinton Rugby League Club between 1929 and 1992 and was widely recognised as one of the finest grounds in the Rugby League.\n\nSwinton moved to Station Road when they were at their peak, having won all four major trophies (\"All Four Cups\") the previous season, one of only three clubs (the others being Hunslet and Huddersfield) ever to do so. The decision to purchase the land, which stood alongside the railway line and Swinton railway station, was made after a breakdown in negotiations with their existing landlord at their Chorley Road ground, their home since 1887.\n\nIn its heyday it boasted a capacity of 60,000, although with a record attendance of 44,621 for Warrington v Wigan in the 1951 Challenge Cup semi-final this was never really tested. All in all 19 internationals (including 15 test matches), 5 Championship finals, 17 Lancashire County Cup finals, 4 Premiership finals and 30 Rugby League Challenge Cup semi-finals were played at the ground. In addition two World Cup matches were played at Station Road.\n\nThe biggest win in any international match at Station Road was when Australia defeated Great Britain by 50-12 in the second Ashes test during the 1963 Kangaroo tour. Played in front of 30,843 fans, the match became known as the \"Swinton Massacre\" as the Kangaroos ran riot. er Ken Irvine crossed for 3 tries giving the British fans (and his opposite, Lions winger Mick Sullivan) a taste of his legendary speed, while other stars for Australia were Reg Gasnier and Peter Dimond who crossed for 2 tries each, and Gasnier's partner Graeme Langlands scored 2 tries and kicked 7 goals. After winning the first test 28-2 at Wembley, the victory saw Australia regain the Ashes they had lost to the Lions at home in 1962.\n1960 Rugby League World Cup\n\nBritain's comprehensive victory over the French at Swinton was marred by the first double sending-off in World Cup annals, France's skipper Jean Barthe and Britain's second-rower Vince Karalius being despatched by Edouard Martung, a police inspector from Bordeaux.\n1970 Rugby League World Cup\n\nBritain eliminated New Zealand from the tournament, cruising to victory with five tries to three. \n\n\"List of Great Britain matches played at Station Road\"\n\nAlso seven England internationals were played at Station Road\n\nStation Road also saw Swinton playing various Australian international touring sides.\n\nFire damaged the disused Main Stand including offices and function rooms in July 1992, this was the last in a series of vandalism before the club moved out of Station Road. Station Road was sold at the end of the 1991–92 season by the club's directors to David McLean Homes for property development, part of the deal involved sponsoring the Lions in their first season post Station Road. The last match to be played at Station Road was a local derby versus Salford on 20 April 1992 with 3,487 witnessing Salford winning 26-18 and Ian Pickavance of Swinton scoring the last try. The site is now a housing estate.\n\n"}
{"id": "34405497", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34405497", "title": "SuperCoach Finals", "text": "SuperCoach Finals\n\nSuperCoach Finals is an online NRL fantasy football game for the NRL football season finals.\n\nSuperCoach Finals asks players to take the role of coach and selector by choosing the ultimate team from Australia's best football players in the NRL Finals Series. Working within a salary cap of $1.4 million, participants select a squad of 7 players each week.\n\nThe real-life performance of the players selected determines the participant’s tally of points. Participants choose a new squad each week according to which NRL teams remain in the finals race. SuperCoach Finals players may also elect to play against other people by creating and joining a private league or by being placed in a public league.\n\nSuperCoach Finals is run by thetelegraph.com.au, The Daily Telegraph and The Sunday Telegraph newspapers in New South Wales, Australia. SuperCoach Finals is also available in Queensland at the Courier Mail, Gold Coast Bulletin and Townsville Bulletin.\n\nSuperCoach Finals is an extension of one of Australia’s biggest NRL fantasy football competitions, NRL SuperCoach.\n\nSee strategy section in NRL SuperCoach.\n\nIn SuperCoach Finals, participants are required to select a complete squad of 7 players from any NRL club participating in the Finals Series. Squad selection must take into consideration a $1.4 million salary cap and the requirement to fulfil each of the following playing positions:\n\nOnly teams with a full squad of 7 players will earn points. When choosing a team for the upcoming week of finals, a team captain must also be nominated. The performance of the team captain will add double points towards the team score.\n\nOnly the best 6 selected players will earn points. If any of them are unable to play, the 7th selected player will add points towards the fantasy team's total.\n\nBy using various statistics that cover all aspects and contributions of NRL players in various playing positions, SuperCoach Finals scoring system presents an accurate way to determine how effective a player has been.\n\nPoints are awarded based on the comprehensive scoring system, as highlighted below.\n\nSee public and private leagues section in NRL SuperCoach.\n\n"}
{"id": "37739237", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37739237", "title": "Swiss Super Cup", "text": "Swiss Super Cup\n\nThe Swiss SuperCup was a match that was played between the winners of the Swiss Super League and the Swiss Cup. It was held from 1986 to 1990.\n\n"}
{"id": "39493930", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39493930", "title": "Sylvan Hills Country Club Golf Course", "text": "Sylvan Hills Country Club Golf Course\n\nThe Greens at North Hills Municipal Golf Course is a municipal golf course located in Sherwood, Arkansas, United States. Construction of the golf course began in 1927 during the \"golden era\" of golf course design.\n\nOriginally named the Sylvan Hills Country Club Golf Course and developed by the Justin Matthews Co., the course was added to the National Register of Historic Places in 2010 due to its local significance and association with entertainment and recreation, From 1956 through May 2007, the golf course was named the North Hills Country Club.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "13584321", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13584321", "title": "Tisza Cipő", "text": "Tisza Cipő\n\nTisza Cipő (Hungarian for \"Tisza Shoe\") is a brand of Hungarian sports shoes that existed in the Communist era which has made a resurgence in recent years as a hip new fashion brand in that country. \"Cipő\" is Hungarian for \"shoe,\" and Tisza is a river in Central Europe. The shoes in playful colors and designs are featured on the company's web site.\n\nIn the 1930s Thomas Bata came to Hungary to open a shoe factory somewhere in the country. During a journey he visited Martfű where the railway, public and water traffic meet and he found it suitable for the Tisza Cipő factory. He bought the parcel in 1939, which was 593 cadastral hold, and he paid 325000 pengő for it. The construction begun and the Cikta Rt. - which was the former name of the shoe factory - in 1942 started the production of loungers. During the Second World War many things changed in the factory, directors of the factory frequently alternated, however; the Shoe factory never shut down. After the war, the factory suffered many lost, for instance; wooden treaded shoes were manufactured instead of rubber ones. In August 1949, The Cikta Rt was renamed to Tisza Cipő Nemzeti Vállalat (Tisza Shoe National Corporation). During the 1950s and 1960s, the factory produced shoes for the inner market and exported only to socialist countries. At these times, they produced large quantity of boots for the Ministry of Interior, the Ministry of Defense and the Civil Guard. In December 1970, The Tisza Shoe Factory wanted to have a new logo instead of their old one and then they put in the application for authorization of their new logo, which they obtained in the first months of 1971. So, finally Tisza company started to produce sport shoes, which very soon became of the favourite shoes of young people. Many facts show us that the production of sport shoes was a very good decision. For instance, from May 1971 the French Adidas manufactured its football shoes called La Paz. From the beginning of the 1970s many new models came to light, some of them were very similar to today's old school type of shoes. One of the first shoes, which the Tisza Factory produced, was a rubber sole - vulcanized - gym shoes which were manufactured in many colours. The variety of sport shoes is widened and besides the normal shoes long legged style shoes were produced and also different shoes were produced leather and linen for different sport activities. At that time the Tisza factory was the biggest shoe factory in Hungary- where not only shoes were manufactured but other factories rubber soles. They produced 10,000,000 pairs of shoes annually and 3,000,000 of them were gym shoes. Besides the quantity the factory took care of the quality. In July 1970, the gym shoes which sole were made of PVC won the excellent product prize. At the 1976 Budapest International Fair, the Tisza leisure shoe family won the Fair's prize. 1976 brought several international successes for the Tisza Cipő factory. For instance, the French ADIDAS signed a multi-year contract with them and the factory's production appeared on the English market. At the same year an agreement was made on the first American export where not only casual shoes were ordered but 50 thousands sport shoes. Tisza shoe company also produced 2 million pair of shoes for the socialist market. In the 1970s the Tisza shoe company's products reached the Kuwait's and Liberia's markets. 1976 brought further development. In the 1990s, the import increased and more and more brands could get into the domestic market. Until the middle of the 1990s, the Tisza Shoe factory made sport shoes and after that, it started manufacturing street shoes for women, men and children. From the summer of 2003 the Tisza company has again started to produce sport shoes. Besides the old models, they produce new ones.\n\nIn 2003, The Clash Kft has bought the rights of the usage of the Tisza trademark. This means that Clash company can use Tisza as a trademark and shoes can be produced anywhere, not just in the traditional Tisza Shoe Factory in Martfű. Nowadays we have three places where Tisza shoes are produced and six shops where customers can buy them. The Clash company also wants to have Tisza trademark to remain pure Hungarian, therefore, the shoes are produced only in Hungary although the completion of the shoes is very expensive. The marketing aim of the Clash Kft is a long-live company, in order to achieve this they have worked out a special marketing plan; the expansion of the company is very slow and the profit of which the company gathers a year is given back to the its origin, to develop the company. The Clash Kft also makes clothes and accessories. The idea of the whole business came from a young, talented, Hungarian man, László Vidák, who was also an importer of a very popular shoe in Hungary a couple of years ago.\n\nIn May 2009 the original Tisza Company in Martfű went bankrupt; from the 102 employees 85 quit. But the Clash Kft continues to make the Tisza Shoe.\n\n"}
{"id": "12020475", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12020475", "title": "US Gorée", "text": "US Gorée\n\nUnion Sportive Gorée is a Senegalese football club based in Gorée Island east of the city centre of Dakar. They play in the top division in Senegalese football. Their home stadium is Stade Demba Diop. The team president is Augustin Senghor. The club has four championship and four cup titles.\n\nGorée also is fourth in the number of major honours won in Senegal numbering nine.\n\nIts logo features a light-blue coloured shield (the color of the bay) with the island coat-of-arms in the middle. Its uniform colours are light blue with the middle part white and white rims on its sleeves, its shorts and its stripes on its socks for home games, its away uniform is the opposite being white and black. Its third colour uniform are green with a light green part on the bottom, its shorts and socks are mostly light green and has red stripes on its sleeve and short rims and its socks.\n\nUntil mid-2017, its uniform colours were coloured aqua with white rims for home games and white clothing for away or alternative games.\n\nThe club was founded in 1933. In the colonial era, US Gorée would win the first French West African Cup title in 1947 and their very last in 1955. The club won their first championship title in 1978 and their last in 1984. Their first cup appearance was in 1965 and challenged against Olympique Thiès. In 1967 where US Gorée twice failed to win their second cup after they lost to Foyer France, a club now known as ASC Diaraf, their second was won in 1972 after defeating ASC Jeanne d'Arc 2-1. Their chance to win the third cup title failed in 1978 after being defeated by AS Police 3-0, fourteen years later, the club finally won their third cup title after defeating ASC Diaraf. Four years later, Gorée won their fourth and recent cup title after defeating Louga's ASEC Ndiambour 1-0. The 1998 cup edition was lost to ASC Yeggo 1-0, the 2001 cup was lost to SONACOS 1-0 in extra time, their recent cup appearance.\n\nThe club were relegated to Division 2 in 1992, 1996, 2002 and 2013. In recent years, US Gorée played in the second division (Ligue 2) and finished second behind ASEC Ndiambour and were in the qualification zone of entering Ligue 1. The club were in different positions in the 2015-16 season until the last few rounds when they were in the first place spot in Ligue 1, only have returned to Ligue 1 last season, the club claimed their fourth and recent national championship title. Gorée participated in their second straight Ligue 1 season, for most of the season, the club was in the last two places and after midway became another least successful season for the club and finished last place in the country and relegated and will appear in Ligue 2 next season.\n\nThe club first appeared in the League Cup in 2009, their greatest position was as finalist in the 2013 League Cup, there, the club lost in the penalty shoot to Casa Sport 3-1.\n\nAs champion, the club won their first Senegalese Super Cup (once called the National Assembly Cup) and the Champion's Trophy for the 2016 season.\n\nGorée came back for another successful chance for the 2016-17 season which they later blew it and they were overthrown from further Ligue 1 participation in the following season by Teungueth and ASEC Ndiambour, whose result in the middle and the later part of the season were ups and downs within the relegation zone and under the 10th position, Gorée finished last for the season behind Linguère and both will appear in Ligue 2 in the following season.\n\nTheir first entry was in 1966 and entered not as a champion. Gorée never took part to challenge Kaloum Star as they withdrew. Their first appearance was in 1979 and first after winning the title in the previous season, they advanced as far as the semis and lost to Ghana's Hearts of Oak. In 1982, Gorée received their third entry after winning their second title, they never participated to face Gabon's Mbila Nzambi. Three years later after winning their recent title, Gorée again advanced all the way to the semis where they challenged from Stella Club d'Adjamé up to AS Bilima. It was 32 years until their next competition and the first being called CAF Champions League, their fifth and recent continental appearance which was in 2017, Gorée faced Guinea's Horoya AC, the home match was scoreless and lost the away match 1-2 and the club was out.\n\nIn cup competitions, their first was in 1976 and competed as second place and lost to Stella Club d'Adjamé, after winning their third cup title, Gorée again returned and first as cup winner and faced Ghana's Voradep and Tunisia's Stade Tunisien and advanced up to the second round. After Gorée won their fourth and last cup title, they competed in the 1997 edition and lost to MC Oran of Algeria in the first round. Their fifth appearance entered as a third-place club in 2007 and defeated two matches with NPA Anchors and Hassania Agadir from Morocco, the first leg had no goals, the club lost 3-2 in Agadir thus Gorée advanced as far to the first round.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nUS Gorée also has its own basketball team\n\n"}
{"id": "18261677", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18261677", "title": "Umnumzaan", "text": "Umnumzaan\n\nThe Umnumzaan is a folding pocket knife manufactured by Chris Reeve Knives of Boise, Idaho, and designed by Chris Reeve. The name \"Umnumzaan\" is derived from the Zulu language, meaning \"Head of the family,\" or \"Boss\" (colloq.), a tribute to Mr. Reeve's South Africa origins.The Umnumzaan was designed to meet the needs of operators seeking a heavy-duty folder capable of handling heavy use and even abuse. Building upon the Sebenza’s success, the Umnumzaan features: a stronger pivot joint, a thicker blade, a different blade grind with a reinforced tip, improved ergonomics, thicker titanium handles, a thicker titanium lock bar, a stronger ceramic ball detent system, a larger titanium spacer (sometimes called a “stand off”), a phosphor-bronze washer system designed to act as a ‘dry-sump’ to retain lubrication and keep dirt out, an oversized ambidextrous-thumb studs & extended lock bar to aid operation when wearing gloves, a lanyard pivot joint that uses pivoting lanyard tie bars, and a deeply textured grip.\n\nThe Umnumzaan implements a version of the Chris Reeve Integral Lock. The original Integral Lock (sometimes referred to as the “frame lock” or“titanium frame lock”) developed by Reeve in 1987, was first implemented in the Sebenza folding pocket knife. This lock employs a titanium lock bar, milled out of the knife's handle material. At lock up, the titanium lock bar comes in direct contact with the back of the blade, thus locking the blade in the open position. The Umnumzaan Integral Lock utilizes a ceramic ball that serves two functionsthe ball acts as the interface between the blade locking surface and the integral locking arm as the knife assumes the open position. The ball also mates with a detent in the blade in the closed position to secure the blade from opening accidentally.\n\nThe Umnumzaan blade pivot is implemented with a pivot screw and pin, and is supported by perforated phosphor bronze thrust washers. The functions of the perforations are to reduce friction due to a reduction in surface area relative to that of a solid washer, and to increase the duration of use between cleanings by housing lubricant in the perforations. Over the life of the Umnumzaan, the pivot and washers have been incrementally modified.\n\nThe thumb lug on the Umnumzaan is used for opening the knife blade, as well as serving as the stop pin that contacts the titanium handle slabs upon lockup. Around each lug is a polyurethane o-ring that acts as a shock absorber to cushion the shock of opening, and reduce the audible noise of opening. The use of the shock absorber concept was pioneered by knife designers Grant and Gavin Hawk, and is being implemented in the Umnumzaan with their consent.\n\nThe knife also features a glass-breaker, but unlike many other glass-breakers on folding knives, the tip is part of the blade itself which protrudes from the pivot side when the knife is closed. The Umnumzaan also was the first Chris Reeve folding knife to incorporate a lanyard pivot joint, which dramatically reduces the friction wear that over time destroys paracord lanyards. It also allows easy swapping of lanyards without a need to cut and retie if the owner has multiple lanyard pivots (referred to as a “cord tie bar” by Chris Reeve Knives). The lanyard pivot joint has since been incorporated on the Sebenza Classic 2000, Sebenza 21, and Sebenza 25.\nThe specifications of the Umnumzaan are as follows:\n\nThe Umnumzaan was introduced at the 2008 Blade Show and International Cutlery Fair, and was named the 2008 Blade Show \"Overall Knife of the Year.\"\n\nSince the 2008 introduction, the Umnumzaan has seen several incremental improvements and one generational change. These changes have all been minor and very few visual changes have occurred since initial introduction. Around 2011, changes to the lock bar were made to make engaging the lock with one hand easier (through making the bottom portion of the lock bar slightly more flared, which was a common request voiced by owners on various knife forums). \n\nThe second generation Umnumzaan saw numerous modifications that utilizes some of the newer technologies found on the Sebenza 25. The single-most visual change was replacing the oversized custom pivot with a more traditional (Sebenza-style) pivot brushing. This new pivot no longer requires the Umnumzaan Take-down Tool and instead a traditional hex wrench is all that is needed to disassemble and reassemble the knife. This pivot is larger than most blade pivot brushing systems and is identical to the one used on the newer Large Sebenza 25 (mid-2012 release and with a pivot that is significantly thicker than the pivot used on the previous Large Sebenza 21). This pivot also incorporates a newer generation washer system with larger washer perforations, which helps retain lubricating grease better than previous designs, while simultaneously keeping elements out of the pivot system to increase service intervals. The change in pivot and washers is complimented by the modifications made to the ceramic ball and detent system, in which a larger ceramic ball in a slightly different location is used to make opening smoother and reduce wear (although it is unclear as to exactly when this specific change began). \n\nShortly before this generational change, a Lock Bar Stabilizer (or LBS) was added to prevent 'hyperextension' of the titanium lock bar. While this change is commonly referred to as part of the second generation Umnumzaan, there are a few models made in early-mid 2012 which have both the old pivot brushing and the lock bar stabilizer, although these are relatively rare. \n\nThe blade steel has also seen a minor revision. While not made at any specific point of revision, like other Chris Reeve Knives that had used CPM-S30V stainless blade steel, the Umnumzaan saw a blade steel phase to CPM-S35VN. While similar to S30V, S35VN is an incremental improvement in which Vanadium is used to make sharpening easier and increase toughness and Niobium to increase toughness and further refine uniform grain formation. Rockwell Hardness is still at 58-59 HRC and edge retention is not much different from S30V. This change was made progressively as S30V blade supply was exhausted. \n\nDating changes and specific points of change is difficult as no single source provides all of the information on the revisions made, and Chris Reeve Knives is known for making frequent small and incremental changes to their knives over periods of years, often as a response to owner feedback and not always with any formal notice.\n\nWhile many folding knives are available with many different options (for example, blade steels, blade coatings, handle material, handle color, graphic designs, different blade shapes, etc.), the Umnumzaan is largely a ‘what-you-see-is-what-you-get’ knife as there are very few different variants available. When the knife was first produced, a limited edition of 20 Umnumzaans were produced with the word “UMNUMZAAN” and “1 of 20” engraved into the titanium handle. Two decorated Graphic Umnumzaans shortly followed. When Chris Reeve changed to S35VN, two Unique Graphic Umnumzaans were made which advertised a ‘mystery steel’. This steel was later revealed to be CPM-S35VN. \n\nAs for mass-produced variants of the Umnumzaan, only three options exist: the standard Umnumzaan, a Tanto Umnumzaan, and a Wilson Combat Umnumzaan; all are available in right-handed and left-handed configurations. While the Tanto Umnumzaan looks identical to the standard Umnumzaan other than the blade shape, the Wilson Combat has a significantly different handle pattern. Commonly labeled the ‘Star Tac’, the Wilson Combat Umnumzaan has a heavily textured design that spans the entire handle, and a different lanyard with a “Wilson Combat” labeled titanium bead.\n\n5. I Luv Knives 2017 Blade Awards\n"}
{"id": "52954426", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52954426", "title": "Valentyna Salamakha", "text": "Valentyna Salamakha\n\nValentyna Salamakha (Russian: Valentyna Саламаха born 23 April 1986) is an Azerbaijani professional handball goalkeeper who plays for SG BBM Bietigheim.\n\nArriving from Bayer Leverkusen, Salamakha signed a two-year contract with Siófok KC in 2015. Just after a season the Azerbaijani international moved back to Germany, signing to SG BBM Bietigheim.\n"}
{"id": "46560692", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46560692", "title": "Xilingol Sports Center", "text": "Xilingol Sports Center\n\nThe Xilingol (Xilinguole) Sports Center () is a sports venue in Xilinhot, the capital of Xilingol League, Inner Mongolia, China. Built to host the 8th Inner Mongolia Minorities Games in August 2013, it has become a local landmark and has hosted many events including the 2017 Four-Country Women's Basketball Tournament, Asian Youth Wushu Tournament, and \"The Voice of China\" Xilingol finals. In 2015, the center was opened for use to the general public.\n\nThe sports center consists of a multi-purpose stadium with a seating capacity of 25,685, six outdoor soccer pitches and two indoor ones, a basketball/ice hockey arena with 3,033 seats, a table tennis stadium with 30 tables and 662 seats, a wrestling stadium with 548 seats, a tennis stadium with four courts, a natatorium with an eight-lane swimming pool and diving platforms, a gateball stadium with three fields, and a badminton/archery stadium.\n"}
