{"id": "20849646", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20849646", "title": "CRP-2B", "text": "CRP-2B\n\nCRP-2B (Crisis Relocation Program 2B) is a hypothetical scenario of nuclear war between the United States and the Soviet Union that was created in 1976 by the Federal Emergency Management Agency. It involved the detonation of 1444 weapons, with a yield of 6559 megatons, and projected an American death toll of between 85 and 125 megadeaths. CRP-2B predicts a \"countervalue\" attack (an attack targeting cities instead of military and industrial infrastructure).\n\nThe program was referred to as a \"study\", but in fact it was the product of a computer simulation. It was also the source of an 80% survival rate figure that was quoted by many people in the years afterwards. The 80% survival rate was an initial assumption, built into the parameters of the computer simulation by its designers. The assumption stems from the conditions of the scenario, with historical precendence in the Cuban Missile Crisis: FEMA assumes that the nuclear exchange would be preceded by 3–5 days of \"heightened tensions\" that would give Americans time to evacuate major cities. But as the program came to be a \"study\", so the survival rate figure came to be the \"finding\" of the study.\n\nCharles F. Estes Jr., director of strategic police at the Office of the Undersecretary of Defence for Policy, stated:\nThis 80% figure was quoted in the 1980s by U.S. congresspeople and other officials.\n\nThe 80% survival rate assumption has since came under significant criticism from academics and organizations like the Federation of American Scientists (FAS). FAS criticized CRP-2B for failing to consider the potential ecological impacts of nuclear war, including nuclear winter, disruptions to agriculture, and the radioactive contamination of water supplies. It further criticized CRP-2B for studying only direct and immediate consequences of the attacks, ignoring the long-term threats to human health posed by ionizing radiation and social problems caused by breakdowns in law and order, strife between relocated populations and host communities, and disruptions to the supply of medical equipment. Stanford University radiologist and anti-nuclear activist Herbert L. Abrams was particularly critical of the scenario's assumptions regarding the injured. He noted that hospitals would quickly be overwhelmed by the number of victims, particularly burn victims, who already face shortages of beds, medical personnel, and resources. Abrams estimated that because 80% of hospitals are in urban areas and would so be destroyed in the attack, there would 1 bed for every 563 severely injured patients. Hospitals would face similar post-attack shortages for blood, plasma, and other fluids and drugs and bandages, which would prevent effective treatment of the wounded and patients with chronic illnesses. Taking into account these impacts on medical facilities, Abrams estimates that only 60 million Americans would survive in the CRP-2B scenario, before nuclear winter, social strife, and disruptions to the food supply are considered.\n\nA Day Called X\n"}
{"id": "14683460", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14683460", "title": "Carucage", "text": "Carucage\n\nCarucage was a medieval English land tax introduced by King Richard I in 1194, based on the size—variously calculated—of the estate owned by the taxpayer. It was a replacement for the danegeld, last imposed in 1162, which had become difficult to collect because of an increasing number of exemptions. Carucage was levied just six times: by Richard in 1194 and 1198; John, his brother and successor, in 1200; and John's son, Henry III, in 1217, 1220, and 1224, after which it was replaced by taxes on income and personal property.\n\nThe taxable value of an estate was initially assessed from the Domesday Survey, but other methods were later employed, such as valuations based on the sworn testimony of neighbours or on the number of plough-teams the taxpayer used. Carucage never raised as much as other taxes, but nevertheless helped to fund several projects. It paid the ransom for Richard's release in 1194, after he was taken prisoner by Leopold V, Duke of Austria; it covered the tax John had to pay Philip II of France in 1200 on land he inherited in that country; and it helped to finance Henry III's military campaigns in England and on continental Europe.\n\nCarucage was an attempt to secure new sources of revenue in order to supplement and increase royal income in a time when new demands were being made on royal finances. Although derived from the older danegeld, carucage was an experiment in revenue collection, but it was only levied for specific purposes, rather than as a regularly assessed tax. Also new was the fact later collections were imposed with the consent of the barons. However, the main flow of royal income was from other sources, and carucage was not collected again after 1224.\n\nIn medieval England there was no clear separation between the king's household and the treasury. The main sources of royal income were the royal estates, feudal rights (such as feudal aids or feudal reliefs, which derived from the king's position as a feudal overlord), taxation, and fees and other profits from the judicial courts. In 1130, the records of revenues paid into the treasury show that about 40% came from royal estates, 16% from feudal rights, 14% from taxes, and 12% from the judicial courts. By 1194 revenue from the land came to about 37% of the total, about 25% came from feudal rights, taxation raised about 15%, and income from judicial sources about 11%.\n\nEnglish taxation after the Norman Conquest of 1066 was based on the geld or danegeld, a national tax paid by all free men, those who were not serfs or slaves. The geld was based on the number of hides of land owned by the taxpayer, and could be demanded by the king and assessed at varying levels without the need for consultation with the barons or other subjects. During King Henry I's reign, an increasing number of exemptions, and the difficulties encountered in collecting the geld, lowered its importance to the Exchequer—the treasury of England. It is unclear whether the geld was collected at all during the reign of Henry's successor, King Stephen. Stephen's successor, King Henry II, collected the geld only twice, once in 1155 and again in 1161–1162. The geld was unpopular, and after 1162 Henry may have felt it politically expedient to stop collecting it.\n\nMost information about the carucage comes from the financial records associated with its collection, but there is no detailed description of the way it was collected or assessed, unlike the account of the workings of the Exchequer given in the \"Dialogue Concerning the Exchequer\", written in about 1180. Government records such as the Pipe Rolls, the Memoranda Rolls, and other financial records, some of which are specific to the carucage, have survived, and include records of assessments and receipts for the sums collected. There are also occasional references to the tax in medieval chronicles, supplementing the information found in the financial records.\n\nUnder Henry's son, King Richard I, a new land tax was collected, the first since 1162. It was organised by Hubert Walter, the Justiciar of England who was in charge of governing England while the king was gone. Like the geld, the carucage was based on the amount of land owned, thus targeting free men rather than serfs, who owned no land and were therefore exempt. First collected in 1194, and the first land tax collected in England since the geld, carucage was based on the size of the estate as measured in either hides or carucates (a unit of land that could be ploughed by an eight-ox plough-team in a year, which was normally considered equivalent to a hide). The original property assessment of the carucage was based on the Domesday Survey, a survey of land holdings in England that was completed by 1087.\n\nCollected again in 1198, and usually called the \"great carucage\", it was initially assessed at a rate of 2 shillings per carucate (estimated at or ), but later an additional 3 shillings per carucate was imposed. This 1198 collection was to provide the king with money for his military campaigns in France, and raised about £1,000. A number of fines were subsequently imposed on taxpayers for evading payment, suggesting that the 1198 tax was not very successful.\n\nAccording to the late 12th century chronicler Roger of Howden, the main source for information on the 1198 carucage, assessments were carried out in county by a commission of two royal officials working in each hundred (a subdivision of a county). Each of these commissions included two local knights who would take sworn testimonies in each village from four villagers and the bailiffs or estate officials of those barons holding land in the village. The resulting assessments were recorded, and the sheriff, or chief royal official of the county, would receive the money and forward it to the treasury. Estate holders in the area were responsible for the payments from their estates, and when they were handed to the Exchequer a special procedure was followed to record the payments, which were then deposited into a dedicated set of accounts. These elaborate procedures were probably meant to avoid misappropriation of funds, but may not have been successful, as justices were later sent out to inquire into the commissioners' activities. As a result of their investigations, 23 counties paid fines to secure an end to royal inquiries and any arrears in payments.\n\nThe lower clergy and bishops resisted Richard's attempt to impose the 1198 carucage on their estates. In response, Richard withdrew their access to his royal courts forcing them to buy it back for a sum greater than the carucage would have collected.\n\nKing John, Richard's brother and successor, collected the carucage only once, in 1200. John set the amount to be collected from each carucate at three shillings. Revenues from this taxation do not appear in the 1200 Pipe Roll, although the designation in official records of William of Wrotham and his assistants as \"receptores carucagii\"—\"receivers of the carucage\"—suggest that the money raised was paid into a special commission in the Exchequer. Whether lands were assessed by the system used in 1198 is unknown. The contemporary chronicler Ralph of Coggeshall noted that an \"order went throughout England by the justices or the king\" to collect the tax, which may imply that the King appointed justices to collect the tax instead of using the earlier system. The carucage was raised in order to pay John's feudal relief— the payment to an overlord on inheriting lands—for his 1199 inheritance of lands in France. The relief had been set by King Philip II of France, John's overlord, at 20,000 marks. Estimates of the amount raised by this carucage—about £3,000—are based on later revenues raised during the following reign.\n\nThe Cistercian monasteries in the north of England resisted the tax, claiming that they were immune to taxation. John put pressure on them, as he was in the north when the tax was announced, but the various abbeys appealed to Hubert Walter, by then Chancellor. Walter secured from the abbeys the promise of a group payment of £1,000, but in June 1200 the King rejected the offer. In October, the King returned from Normandy and resumed pressure on the monasteries, ordering the confiscation of all Cistercian livestock on royal lands after two weeks if a settlement was not reached. At the end of November, through Walter's intercession, the King capitulated and agreed to a Cistercian immunity from this tax.\n\nJohn's son, King Henry III, assessed the carucage on three occasions, in 1217, 1220, and 1224. A new approach in 1217 and 1220 was to secure the consent of leading noblemen for the tax to be levied. The 1217 tax was once again assessed at 3 shillings per carucate. The assessment of the amount of lands held by each taxpayer involved having each landowner provide the information and swear an oath that it was correct. Like the 1200 tax, the 1217 tax was not recorded in that year's Pipe Roll, lending support to the possibility that the revenue from the tax was sent to a separate branch of the Exchequer. The 1217 carucage was only paid by laymen; the clergy made a donation in lieu of being taxed. The money raised was intended to defray the expense of the war being fought against Prince Louis of France, who had invaded England before the death of King John and was claiming the English throne.\n\nThe 1220 carucage, which was imposed on both laymen and clergy, was collected by a special commission, and was paid not into the Exchequer, but to the Templar Order church in London, the New Temple. The Templars through their international organization functioned as bankers in and between countries. The three men appointed to the commission—William de Halliwell, a friar, William FitzBenedict, a London resident, and Alexander de Sawbridgeworth, an Exchequer clerk—were responsible for accounting for the money received, which amounted to £3,000. The time frame of the 1220 carucage collection was quite short; the orders for the assessments to be made were issued in August, but required the tax to be collected by Michaelmas in late September. The 1220 tax attempted to allow for variation in land values, exempting barren land from taxation. The system for the 1220 assessments was simpler than the 1217 levy, as plough-teams were counted to determine the land size rather than requiring oaths from taxpayers. This tax gathered around £5,500. There was some difficulty in its collection however, as some counties did not pay, and a number of barons refused to pay, at least at first. The 1220 carucage was levied to pay for the defence of Henry's lands in Poitou, southern France.\n\nThe 1224 carucage was a tax levied only on the clergy, and the revenues from it did not appear in that year's Pipe Roll. It is likely that the clergy who owed the carucage also collected the tax. Records indicate that the bulk of the money raised was paid into the Wardrobe, the king's personal treasury, rather than the Exchequer. The 1224 assessment was based on ploughteams, and was imposed to pay for the restitution of the lost lands in France.\n\nThe last carucage was imposed in 1224, after which most of the medieval government's revenue was raised by levying taxes on moveable or personal property, instead of on land; taxes on moveable property were first assessed in 1207. A probable reason for the abandonment of land taxes was the greater revenues raised by taxes on property and income.\n\nCarucage was an attempt to secure new sources of revenue to supplement existing sources of income. It was also intended to increase the royal revenues in the face of new demands placed upon them. Although derived from the older geld, carucage was an experiment in revenue collection, but it was only levied for specific purposes, rather than as a general tax regularly assessed. A novel feature was the consultation with the barons and other leading members of the ruling classes. Despite its intermittent use during the reigns of Richard I, John, and the early years of Henry III, the main source of royal income at that time remained scutage, feudal dues such as feudal reliefs or feudal aids, and royal rights such as the profits from the justice system.\n\n"}
{"id": "3647043", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3647043", "title": "Center for Intellectual Property Studies", "text": "Center for Intellectual Property Studies\n\nThe Center for Intellectual Property Studies (CIP) is a development center at the intersection of industry and academia. Founded in a joint effort between Chalmers University of Technology and School of Business, Economics, and Law at the University of Gothenburg, both in Gothenburg, Sweden, CIP is an actor in the area of intellectual property and entrepreneurship.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "24331066", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24331066", "title": "Centre for Investigative Journalism", "text": "Centre for Investigative Journalism\n\nThe Centre for Investigative Journalism (CIJ) is a British Charity providing training to journalists, researchers, producers and students in the practice and methodology of investigative journalism. Incorporated as a Company Limited by Guarantee in June 2005 and registered as a Charity in March 2007. Using grants from the Lorana Sullivan Foundation, the CIJ organises annual three-day summer schools, an annual investigative film week and courses in data journalism and investigative techniques. It has provided training to thousands of journalists, researchers and students from over 35 countries. The CIJ is based at the School of Journalism at Goldsmiths, University of London. Since 2014, has held the CIJ summer school each year.\nThe Centre supports and encourages Freedom of Information, Computer Assisted Reporting, and the protection of whistleblowers. The CIJ offers particular assistance to those working in difficult environments where free speech and freedom of the press are under threat and where truthful reporting can be a dangerous occupation.<ref>\n"}
{"id": "5191702", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5191702", "title": "Child Abuse Prevention and Treatment Act", "text": "Child Abuse Prevention and Treatment Act\n\nThe Child Abuse Prevention and Treatment Act (Public Law 93-247) of 1988 provides federal funding to US states in support of prevention, assessment, investigation, prosecution, and treatment activities and provides grants to public agencies and nonprofit organizations for demonstration programs and projects. Additionally, it identifies the federal role in supporting research, evaluation, technical assistance, and data collection activities; establishes the Office on Child Abuse and Neglect; and mandates the National Clearinghouse on Child Abuse and Neglect Information. It also sets forth a minimum definition of child abuse and neglect.\n\nThe key federal legislation addressing child abuse and neglect is the Child Abuse Prevention and Treatment Act (CAPTA), originally enacted in 1974 (Public Law 93-247). It was amended several times and was most recently amended and reauthorized by the CAPTA Reauthorization Act on December 20, 2010.\n\nThe complete text of the lengthy law is listed under U.S. Code Title 42, Chapter 67.. A booklet presenting CAPTA, as amended by the Keeping Children and Families Safe Act of 2003, including the Adoption Opportunities program and Abandoned Infants Assistance Act, as amended, is available from the Children's Bureau.\n\nThe law was completely rewritten in the Child Abuse Prevention, Adoption and Family Services Act of 1988 (Public Law 100-294). It was further amended by the Child Abuse Prevention Challenge Grants Reauthorization Act of 1989 (P.L. 101-126 and the Drug Free School Amendments of 1989 (Public Law 101-226).\n\nThe Community-Based Child Abuse and Neglect Prevention Grants was a program that was originally authorized by Sections 402 to 409 of the Continuing Appropriations Act for Fiscal Year 1985 (Public Law 98-473). The Child Abuse Prevention Challenge Grants Reauthorization Act of 1989 (Public Law 101-126) transferred the program to the Child Abuse Prevention and Treatment Act, as amended.\n\nA new Title III, Certain Preventive Services Regarding Children of Homeless Families or Families at Risk of Homelessness, was added to the Child Abuse and Neglect and Treatment Act by the Stewart B. McKinney Homeless Assistance Act Amendments of 1990 (Public Law 101-645).\n\nThe Child Abuse Prevention and Treatment Act was amended and reauthorized by the Child Abuse, Domestic Violence Adoption and Family Services Act of 1992 (Public Law 102-295), and amended by the Juvenile Justice and Delinquency Prevention Act Amendments of 1992 (Public Law 102-586).\n\nThe Act was amended by the Older American Act Technical Amendments of 1993 (Public Law 103-171, 12/2/93) and the Human Services Amendments of 1994 (Public Law 103-252, 5/19/94).\nCAPTA was further amended by the Child Abuse Prevention and Treatment Act Amendments of 1996 (P.L. 104-235, 10/3/96), which amended Title I, replaced the Title II Community-Based Family Resource Centers program with a new Community-Based Family Resource and Support Program, and repealed Title III.\n\nCAPTA was most recently amended by the Keeping Children and Families Safe Act of 2003 (P.L. 108-36, 6/25/03), which amended Title I and replaced Title II, Community-Based Family Resource and Support Program with Community-Based Grants for the Prevention of Child Abuse and Neglect.\n\nCAPTA was reauthorized in 2010, as the Child Abuse Prevention and Treatment Act of 2011 (Public Law 111-320)\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "258834", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=258834", "title": "Child murder", "text": "Child murder\n\nChild murder or child homicide is the homicide of an individual who is a minor.\n\nIn 2008, there were 1,494 child homicides in the United States. Of those killed, 1,035 were male and 452 were female. \n\nSeveral U.S. states have included child murder to their list of aggravating factors that may make a murder punishable by the death penalty, but the victim’s age under which the crime is a capital crime varies between them. In 2011, Texas raised this age from six to ten.\n\nChild manslaughter can result in an aggravated charge in some jurisdictions such as the State of Florida.\n\nIn most countries, there are very few cases where children are killed by other young children. According to the U.S. Department of Justice statistics for 1996, one in five murders of children are committed by other children. Several murders by children have gained prominent media exposure. One was the killing on 12 February 1993 of the almost 3-year-old boy James Bulger by two 10-year-old boys in Bootle, Merseyside, UK. He was beaten and stoned before his unconscious body was left on train tracks to give the impression that a train had hit him. Another notable case in the UK occurred in 1968 in Newcastle upon Tyne, when 10-year-old Mary Bell was convicted of manslaughter due to diminished responsibility in the deaths of toddlers Martin Brown and Brian Howe. She was released in 1980 at the age of 23. In 1998, 8-year-old Madelyn Clifton was killed by 14-year-old Josh Phillips.\n\nIn 1992, after the fatal shooting of 7-year-old Dantrell Davis as he left the Cabrini–Green public housing project for school, the \"Chicago Tribune\" put every child murder on the front page (generally no murders were front-page news). 62 child murders were reported that year.\nMultiple deaths in one incident, such as the 1999 Columbine High School massacre and the 2012 Sandy Hook Elementary School shooting, tend to gather the most media attention but are statistically scarce.\n\nThe military use of children refers to children being placed in harm's way in military actions, in order to protect a location or provide propaganda. This is sometimes referred to as child sacrifice, though not equivalent to the religious variety. It may also refer to the use of children as child soldiers or saboteurs.\n\nRed Hand Day on 15 February is an annual commemoration day to draw public attention to the practice of using children as soldiers in wars and armed conflicts.\n\nMedicine murder (often referred to as \"muti killing\") is a practice of human sacrifice and mutilation associated with traditional medicinal practices, such as Muti. Victims of muti killings are often children. Organs and/or body parts are usually taken while child is still alive. An unknown child (referred to as \"Adam\"), whose decapitated torso was found in the River Thames in London in 2002 is believed to have been the victim of a muti killing.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "406361", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=406361", "title": "China–Australia Migratory Bird Agreement", "text": "China–Australia Migratory Bird Agreement\n\nThe China–Australia Migratory Bird Agreement (CAMBA) is a treaty between Australia and China to minimise harm to the major areas used by migratory birds which migrate between the two countries. CAMBA was first developed on October 20, 1986 and came into force on September 1, 1988.\n\n"}
{"id": "1939759", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1939759", "title": "Civil authority", "text": "Civil authority\n\nCivil authority or civilian authority, also known as civilian government, is the practical implementation of a State, other than its military units, that enforces law and order. It is also used to distinguish between religious authority (for example Canon law) and secular authority. The enforcement of law and order is typically the role of the police in modern states.\n\nAmong the first modern experiments in civil government took place in 1636 when Roger Williams, a Christian minister, founded the colony of Rhode Island and Providence Plantations. He sought to create a \"wall of separation\" between church and state to prevent corruption of the church and maintain civil order as expounded upon in his 1644 book, \"Bloudy Tenent of Persecution\".\n\nThus three forms of authority may be seen:\n\nIt can also mean the moral power of command, supported (when need be) by physical coercion, which the State exercises over its members. In this view, because man can not live in isolation without being deprived of what makes him human, and because authority is necessary for a society to hold together, the authority has not only the power but the right to command. It is natural to man to live in society, to submit to authority, and to be governed by that custom of society which crystallizes into law, and the obedience that is required is paid to the powers that be, to the authority in possession. The extent of its authority is bound by the ends it has in view, and the extent to which it provides for the government of society.\n\nIn modern states enforcement of law and order is typically the role of the police although the line between military and civil units may be hard to distinguish; especially when militias and volunteers, such as yeomanry, act in pursuance of non-military, domestic objectives.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "36980", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36980", "title": "Clay", "text": "Clay\n\nClay is a finely-grained natural rock or soil material that combines one or more clay minerals with possible traces of quartz (SiO), metal oxides (AlO , MgO etc.) and organic matter. Geologic clay deposits are mostly composed of phyllosilicate minerals containing variable amounts of water trapped in the mineral structure. Clays are plastic due to particle size and geometry as well as water content, and become hard, brittle and non–plastic upon drying or firing. Depending on the soil's content in which it is found, clay can appear in various colours from white to dull grey or brown to deep orange-red.\n\nAlthough many naturally occurring deposits include both silts and clay, clays are distinguished from other fine-grained soils by differences in size and mineralogy. Silts, which are fine-grained soils that do not include clay minerals, tend to have larger particle sizes than clays. There is, however, some overlap in particle size and other physical properties. The distinction between silt and clay varies by discipline. Geologists and soil scientists usually consider the separation to occur at a particle size of 2 µm (clays being finer than silts), sedimentologists often use 4–5 μm, and colloid chemists use 1 μm. Geotechnical engineers distinguish between silts and clays based on the plasticity properties of the soil, as measured by the soils' Atterberg limits. ISO 14688 grades clay particles as being smaller than 2 μm and silt particles as being larger.\n\nMixtures of sand, silt and less than 40% clay are called loam. Loam makes good soil and is used as a building material.\n\nClay minerals typically form over long periods of time as a result of the gradual chemical weathering of rocks, usually silicate-bearing, by low concentrations of carbonic acid and other diluted solvents. These solvents, usually acidic, migrate through the weathering rock after leaching through upper weathered layers. In addition to the weathering process, some clay minerals are formed through hydrothermal activity. There are two types of clay deposits: primary and secondary. Primary clays form as residual deposits in soil and remain at the site of formation. Secondary clays are clays that have been transported from their original location by water erosion and deposited in a new sedimentary deposit. Clay deposits are typically associated with very low energy depositional environments such as large lakes and marine basins.\n\nDepending on the academic source, there are three or four main groups of clays: kaolinite, montmorillonite-smectite, illite, and chlorite. Chlorites are not always considered to be a clay, sometimes being classified as a separate group within the phyllosilicates. There are approximately 30 different types of \"pure\" clays in these categories, but most \"natural\" clay deposits are mixtures of these different types, along with other weathered minerals.\n\nVarve (or \"varved clay\") is clay with visible annual layers, which are formed by seasonal deposition of those layers and are marked by differences in erosion and organic content. This type of deposit is common in former glacial lakes. When fine sediments are delivered into the calm waters of these glacial lake basins away from the shoreline, they settle to the lake bed. The resulting seasonal layering is preserved in an even distribution of clay sediment banding.\n\nQuick clay is a unique type of marine clay indigenous to the glaciated terrains of Norway, Canada, Northern Ireland, and Sweden. It is a highly sensitive clay, prone to liquefaction, which has been involved in several deadly landslides.\n\nPowder X-ray diffraction can be used to identify clays.\n\nThe physical and reactive chemical properties can be used to help elucidate the composition of clays.\n\nClays exhibit plasticity when mixed with water in certain proportions. However, when dry, clay becomes firm and when fired in a kiln, permanent physical and chemical changes occur. These changes convert the clay into a ceramic material. Because of these properties, clay is used for making pottery, both utilitarian and decorative, and construction products, such as bricks, wall and floor tiles. Different types of clay, when used with different minerals and firing conditions, are used to produce earthenware, stoneware, and porcelain. Prehistoric humans discovered the useful properties of clay. Some of the earliest pottery shards recovered are from central Honshu, Japan. They are associated with the Jōmon culture and deposits they were recovered from have been dated to around 14,000 BC.\n\nClay tablets were the first known writing medium. Scribes wrote by inscribing them with cuneiform script using a blunt reed called a stylus. Purpose-made clay balls were also used as sling ammunition.\n\nClays sintered in fire were the first form of ceramic. Bricks, cooking pots, art objects, dishware, smoking pipes, and even musical instruments such as the ocarina can all be shaped from clay before being fired. Clay is also used in many industrial processes, such as paper making, cement production, and chemical filtering. Until the late 20th century, bentonite clay was widely used as a mold binder in the manufacture of sand castings.\n\nClay, being relatively impermeable to water, is also used where natural seals are needed, such as in the cores of dams, or as a barrier in landfills against toxic seepage (lining the landfill, preferably in combination with geotextiles). (See puddling.)\n\nStudies in the early 21st century have investigated clay's absorption capacities in various applications, such as the removal of heavy metals from waste water and air purification.\n\nTraditional uses of clay as medicine goes back to prehistoric times. An example is Armenian bole, which is used to soothe an upset stomach. Some animals such as parrots and pigs ingest clay for similar reasons. Kaolin clay and attapulgite have been used as anti-diarrheal medicines.\n\nClay as the defining ingredient of loam is one of the oldest building materials on Earth, among other ancient, naturally-occurring geologic materials such as stone and organic materials like wood. Between one-half and two-thirds of the world's population, in both traditional societies as well as developed countries, still live or work in buildings made with clay, often baked into brick, as an essential part of its load-bearing structure. Also a primary ingredient in many natural building techniques, clay is used to create adobe, cob, cordwood, and rammed earth structures and building elements such as wattle and daub, clay plaster, clay render case, clay floors and clay paints and ceramic building material. Clay was used as a mortar in brick chimneys and stone walls where protected from water.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "7876225", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7876225", "title": "Compressed earth block", "text": "Compressed earth block\n\nA compressed earth block (CEB), also known as a \"pressed earth block\" or a \"compressed soil block\", is a building material made primarily from damp soil compressed at high pressure to form blocks. Compressed earth blocks use a mechanical press to form blocks out of an appropriate mix of fairly dry inorganic subsoil, non-expansive clay and aggregate. If the blocks are stabilized with a chemical binder such as Portland cement they are called \"compressed stabilized earth block\" (CSEB) or \"stabilized earth block\" (SEB). Typically, around is applied in compression, and the original soil volume is reduced by about half.\n\nCreating CEBs differs from rammed earth in that the latter uses a larger formwork into which earth is poured and manually tamped down, creating larger forms such as a whole wall or more at one time rather than building blocks. CEBs differ from mud bricks in that the latter are not compressed and solidify through chemical changes that take place as they air dry. The compression strength of properly made CEB can meet or exceed that of typical cement or mud brick. Building standards have been developed for CEB.\n\nCEBs are assembled onto walls using standard bricklaying and masonry techniques. The mortar may be a simple slurry made of the same soil/clay mix without aggregate, spread or brushed very thinly between the blocks for bonding, or cement mortar may also be used for high strength, or when construction during freeze-thaw cycles causes stability issues. Hydraform blocks are shaped to be interlocking.\n\nCEB technology has been developed for low-cost construction, as an alternative to adobe, and with some advantages. A commercial industry has been advanced by eco-friendly contractors, manufacturers of the mechanical presses, and by cultural acceptance of the method. In the United States, most general contractors building with CEB are in the Southwestern states: New Mexico, Colorado, Arizona, California, and to a lesser extent in Texas. The methods and presses have been used for many years in Mexico, and in developing countries.\n\nThe South African Department of Water Affairs and Forestry considers that CEB, locally called \"Dutch brick\" is an appropriate technology for a developing country, as are adobe, rammed earth and cob. All use natural building materials.\nIn 2002 the International Institute for Energy Conservation was one of the winners of a World Bank Development Marketplace Award for a project to make an energy-efficient Dutch brick-making machine for home construction in South Africa. By making cheaper bricks that use earth, the project would reduce housing costs while stimulating the building industry.\nThe machine would be mobile, allowing bricks to be made locally from earth.\n\nVarious types of CEB production machines exist, from manual to semi-automated and fully automated, with increasing capital-investment and production rates, and decreased labor. Automated machines are more common in the developed world, and manual machines in the developing world.\n\nThere are many advantages of the CEB system. On-site materials can be used, which reduces cost, minimizes shipping costs for materials, and increases efficiency and sustainability. The wait-time required to obtain materials is minimal, because after the blocks are pressed, materials are available very soon after a short drying period. The uniformity of the blocks simplifies construction, and minimizes or eliminates the need for mortar, thus reducing both the labor and materials costs. The blocks are strong, stable, water-resistant and long-lasting.\n\nCEB had very limited use prior to the 1980s. It was known in the 1950s in South America, where one of the most well-known presses, the Cinva Ram, was developed by Raul Ramirez in the Inter-American Housing Center (CINVA) in Bogota, Colombia. The Cinva Ram is a single-block, manual-press that uses a long, hand-operated lever to drive a cam, generating high pressure.\n\nIndustrial manufacturers produce much larger machines that run with diesel or gasoline engines and hydraulic presses that receive the soil/aggregate mixture through a hopper. This is fed into a chamber to create a block that is then ejected onto a conveyor.\n\nDuring the 1980s, soil-pressing technology became widespread. France, England, Germany, South Africa and Switzerland began to write standards. The Peace Corps, USAID, Habitat for Humanity and other programs began to implement it into housing projects.\n\nCompleted walls require either a reinforced bond beam or a ring beam on top or between floors and if the blocks are not stabilized, a plaster finish, usually stucco wire/stucco cement and/or lime plaster. Stabilized blocks can be left exposed with no outer plaster finish. In tropical environments, polycarbonate varnish is often used to provide an additional layer of wet-weather protection.\n\nStandards for foundations are similar to those for brick walls. A CEB wall is heavy. Footings must be at least 10 inches thick, with a minimum width that is 33 percent greater than the wall width. If a stem wall is used, it shall extend to an elevation not less than eight inches (203 mm) above the exterior finish grade. Rubble-filled foundation trench designs with a reinforced concrete grade beam above are allowed to support CEB construction.\n\nUsing the ASTM D1633-00 stabilization standard, a pressed and cured block must be submerged in water for four hours. It is then pulled from the water and immediately subjected to a compression test. The blocks must score at least a 300 pound-force per square inch (p.s.i) (2 MPa) minimum. This is a higher standard than for adobe, which must score an \"average\" of at least 300 p.s.i. (2 MPa)\n"}
{"id": "57009357", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57009357", "title": "Conduit and Sink OFCs", "text": "Conduit and Sink OFCs\n\nConduit OFC and Sink OFC is an empirical quantitative method of classifying corporate tax havens, offshore financial centres and tax havens.\n\nRather than analyzing taxation and legal structures to identify and classify potential tax havens (the preferred EU, IMF, and OECD route), this approach analyses the ownership chains of 98 million global companies (a purely empirical, or outcomes–based, route), relative to the size of countries of their incorporation. The technique gives both a method of classification and a method of understanding the relative scale of corporate tax havens/offshore financial centers.\n\nThe results were formally published by the University of Amsterdam's CORPNET Group in July 2017, and identify two major classifications:\n\n\nThe CORPNET report has been praised, and in March 2017, the EU has adopted its approach into some of their policy frameworks. Research by Gabriel Zucman (et alia) published in June 2018, showed using Orbis database connections, underestimates Ireland, which the Zucman–Tørsløv–Wier 2018 list shows is the largest corporate Conduit OFC in the world. However, CORPNET's Conduits and Sinks, reconcile closely with the world's top ten tax havens.\n\nThe lack of an accepted definition for identifying corporate tax havens/offshore financial centres, results in different lists, including:\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nThere are common \"classic\" tax haven locations amongst these lists (i.e. the Cayman Islands, Bermuda, British Virgin Islands and Jersey etc.) which some global regulators have either blacklisted, or have issued formal warnings/threat of sanctions against, unless transparency is increased.\n\nA key difference between the lists regards the major corporate tax havens (or offshore financial centres), like Ireland the Netherlands and Luxembourg (amongst others).\n\nMajor regulators like the EU and the OECD don't regard them as tax havens, and point to their transparency and compliance with international regulations.\n\nAcademics and other non–governmental organizations, however, point to their role in major corporate tax avoidance from base erosion and profit shifting (“BEPS”) schemes, like the double Irish, the single malt and the dutch sandwich. They regard them as major tax havens in their definitions of tax havens. This disconnect regarding corporate tax havens is discussed here.\n\nA report published in Nature in 2017 on the analysis of offshore financial centres \"Uncovering Offshore Financial Centers: Conduits and Sinks in the Global Corporate Ownership Network\" explains the disconnect between these two sets of contrasting views, and provides a more scientific approach to classification.\n\nThe report was the result of a multi–year investigation by political economists and computer scientists in the CORPNET research group at the University of Amsterdam. CORPNET is a European Research Council funded group at the University of Amsterdam investigating networks of corporate control.\n\nThe report used the Moody's Orbis corporate database to examine 98 million global companies and their 71 million ownership connections (using big data computer modelling) to identify 5 global Conduit OFCs (Netherlands, United Kingdom, Ireland, Singapore and Switzerland). These are countries of high financial reputation (i.e. not formally labelled \"tax havens\" by OECD/EU), but who have \"advanced\" legal and tax structuring vehicles (and SPVs) that help legally route funds to the 24 tax havens (called Sink OFCs), without incurring tax in the Conduit OFC (or even tax in the source of funds location, where royalty payment schemes can be used).\n\nThe work builds on methods established in the \"Offshore–Intensity Ratio\", and in particular the understanding activity relative to the scale of the domestic economy in a country. At its crudest level, the Offshore-Intensity Ratio explains why the countries at the top of global GDP per capita lists are mostly tax haven types.\n\nThe EU Parliament's Policy Department on Economic and Scientific Policies included the research in its findings for the EU Committee on Money laundering, tax avoidance and tax evasion (PANA), and by tabulating against existing EU–IMF–FSI tax–haven lists, showed material gaps in EU understanding of conduits.\n\nCORPNET's top 5 Conduits and top 5 Sinks are 9 of the 10 largest tax havens identified in 2010 by one of the academic founders of tax haven research, James R. Hines Jr.. Hines' 2010 list of 10 major tax havens only differs in its omission of the U.K., which in 2010, had only just reformed its corporate tax system. CORPNET's top 5 Conduits and top 5 Sinks closely reconcile with the top 10 major corporate tax havens of other major academic and non–governmental organisation tax haven lists.\n\nConduit OFCs are described as having advanced legal and tax systems designed to enable corporations to route funds from high tax locations (e.g. Germany) to the Sink OFCs (e.g. Bermuda). They tend to have attractive \"holding company\" regimes (e.g. no withholding taxes, foreign dividends exempt from taxes, capital gains reliefs, full double–tax relief), advanced tax treatment of intellectual property regimes, and large global networks of bilateral tax treaties. CORPNET's five major Conduit OFCs, all have a top–ten ranking in the 2018 \"Global Innovation Property Centre (GIPC) IP Index\". IP has been described as the \"raw materials of corporate tax avoidance\", and \"the leading corporate tax avoidance vehicle\".\n\nConduit OFCs tend to be dominated by major law firms and global accounting firms, who create the lawfully constructed vehicles that make the Sink OFC connections, by exploiting legislative loopholes such as the double Irish and dutch sandwich. They advise clients (and the Government) on anticipating future changes (e.g. from OECD BEPS processes), that may need new loopholes. They write most of the State's relevant SPV legislation (where they create the new loopholes) through detailed lobbying and representations.\n\nThis type of legal and tax structuring is considered beyond the trust–structuring type work of the offshore magic circle firms. Conduit OFCs need structures that can integrate with bilateral tax treaties involving G20 countries, as well as meeting U.S. GAAP / SEC Regulations that U.S. multinationals (one of the largest users of Conduit OFCs) need to adhere to.\n\nThese top 5 global Conduit OFCs channel 47% of corporate offshore connections and have different attributes:\nSink OFCs cover a broad range of locations from very small counties (e.g. the Marshall Islands), to major global financial centres (e.g. Hong Kong).\n\nJust because funds reach a Sink OFC, does not mean that they remain dormant. Quite the contrary, the funds can be invested in assets all over the world, but their legal ownership and future gains remain in the Sink OFC. For example, the circa $1 trillion of US company offshore cash, is held in Sink OFCs (esp. Caribbean).\n\nThe report highlighted some interesting aspects of the 24 Sink OFCs:\n\nCORPNET highlighted the lack of progress the OECD Base erosion and profit shifting (\"BEPS\") project is making, and that the OECD's support of transparent intellectual property–based tax structuring (or patent/knowledge boxes), is incompatible with the emerging position of intellectual property as the leading BEPS tool in conduit OFCs. The reasons for this failure are discussed in failure of OECD BEPS Project.\n\nAn example of an IP–based BEPS tool is Ireland's capital allowances for intangible assets (\"CAIA\") tool, also known as the \"Green Jersey\", which has an effective tax rate of 0–3%. Apple used the CAIA (or Green Jersey) BEPS tool in Q1 2015 (and created the noted Irish \"leprechaun economics\" restatement of GDP). Ireland has other IP–based BEPS tools (Ireland as the first OECD nexus-compliant KDB), and is a supporter of the OECD BEPS project (see box).\n\nThe Isle of Man (the \"IOM\") was absent from the list of top Sink OFCs. The IOM appears on tax–haven lists and ranks 42 on the 2018 Financial Secrecy Index.\n\nThe Chief Minister of the IOM, Howard Quayle, announced that the CORPNET report proved that the IOM is not a tax haven.\n\nHowever, CORPNET researchers from the University of Amsterdam directly replied to Howard Quayle's article clarifying that while the IOM does not appear as a leading Sink OFC for corporate tax avoidance, it does not mean that individuals (personal bank accounts and trusts) do not use the IOM to avoid taxes, and particularly United Kingdom VAT.\n\nOther commentators have added that the IOM is \"failing as a tax haven\", and is now too small to appear in major studies like the CORPNET research.\n\nThe CORPNET report uses corporate connections on the Orbis database, rather than the quantum of money, as its primary metric of analysis. In theory, the authors feel that this does not impede the goal of classification, and of making relative rankings. However, it does mean the amount of potential tax avoidance is ignored.\n\nAcclaimed author on tax havens and offshore financial centers, Gabriel Zucman, uses a different quantitative approach. Zucman focuses on macro–data of national statistical accounts. In theory, the total assets in a system should equal the total liabilities. By aggregating national account data, Zucman can identify an excess of liabilities over assets, implying that the missing assets (to balance the equation), are hidden in tax–havens. On this basis, in 2015, he estimated that 8% of the world's wealth (or $7.6 trillion) was \"missing\" in offshore tax–havens.\n\nZucman's analysis highlights the special case of Ireland and why the Orbis database underestimates Ireland's scale as one of the world's largest corporate tax avoidance, or BEPS, hubs.\n\nUS multinationals dominate Ireland's economy, using it as a shield from the US \"worldwide tax\" system (pre 2017 TCJA leglislation). They are 14 of Ireland's 20 largest firms, directly employ one–quarter of the labour force, pay 80% of all business taxes, and create 57% of non–farm private sector OECD value–add. There are no non–US/non–UK foreign firms in Ireland's top 50 firms by turnover (and only one by employees, Lidl). When Apple restructured its Irish subsidiaries in January 2015, it caused Irish GDP to rise 26.3% and Irish GNP to rise 18.7% (became the leprechaun economics affair).\n\nZucman's analysis shows many of Ireland's US multinationals don't appear on Orbis (Facebook), or only have a small fraction of their data on Orbis (Google and Apple). Analysed using \"quantum of funds\" (not \"Orbis connections\"), Zucman shows Ireland is one of the largest corporate tax shelters in the world, and a route for Zucman’s estimated loss of 20% in EU corporate tax revenues annually.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "229018", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=229018", "title": "Continental System", "text": "Continental System\n\nThe Continental System or Continental Blockade (known in French as \"Blocus continental\") was the foreign policy of Napoleon I of France against the United Kingdom during the Napoleonic Wars. As a response to the naval blockade of the French coasts enacted by the British government on 16 May 1806, Napoleon issued the Berlin Decree on 21 November 1806, which brought into effect a large-scale embargo against British trade. The embargo was applied intermittently, ending on 11 April 1814 after Napoleon's first abdication. The blockade caused little economic damage to the UK, although British exports to the continent (as a proportion of the UK's total trade) dropped from 55% to 25% between 1802 and 1806. As Napoleon realized that extensive trade was going through Spain and Russia, he invaded those two countries. His forces were tied down in Spain—in which the Spanish War of Independence was occurring simultaneously—and suffered severely in, and ultimately retreated from, Russia in 1812.\n\nThe Berlin Decree forbade the import of British goods into any European countries allied with or dependent upon France, and it installed the Continental System in Europe. All connections with Britain were to be cut, even the mail. British merchants smuggled in many goods and the Continental System was not a powerful weapon of economic war. There was some damage to British trade, especially in 1808 and 1812, but British control of the oceans led to replacement trade with North and South America, as well as large scale smuggling in Europe.\nThe loss of Britain as a trading partner also hit the economies of France and its allies. Angry governments gained an incentive to ignore the Continental System, which led to the weakening of Napoleon's coalition.\n\nThe United Kingdom was the central important force in encouraging and financing alliances against Napoleonic France. In addition, the British government enacted a naval blockade of the French and French-allied coasts, on 16 May 1806. As France lacked the naval strength to invade Britain or to decisively defeat the Royal Navy at sea, Napoleon resorted instead to economic warfare. Britain was Europe's manufacturing and business center as a result of the Industrial Revolution. Napoleon believed it would be easy to take advantage of an embargo on trade with the European nations under his control, causing inflation and great debt to undermine the British strength.\n\nIn November 1806, having recently conquered or allied with every major power on the European continent, Napoleon, in retaliation to the British Order-in-Council of 17 May 1806 blockading all ports from Brest to the Elbe, issued the Berlin Decree forbidding his allies and conquests from trading with the British. The UK responded with further Orders in Council issued on 10 January and 11 November 1807. These forbade French trade with the UK, its allies or neutrals, and instructed the Royal Navy to blockade all French and allied ports, and to prevent all shipping whether neutral or not. Napoleon responded again with the Milan Decree of 1807, declaring that all neutral shipping using British ports or paying British tariffs were to be regarded as British and seized.\n\nNapoleon's plan to defeat Britain was to destroy its ability to trade. As an island nation, trade was its most vital lifeline. Napoleon believed that if he could isolate Britain economically, he would be able to invade the nation after its economic collapse. Napoleon decreed that all commerce ships wishing to do business in Europe must first stop at a French port in order to ensure that there could be no trade with Britain. He also ordered all European nations and French allies to stop trading with Britain, and he threatened Russia with an invasion if they did not comply as well. His orders backfired in the Iberian Peninsula, especially in Portugal (being allied to Britain), setting off the Peninsular War. He pushed Russia too hard, both in terms of the Continental System, and in his demands for control over part of Poland. His attempted punishment of Russia through a massive invasion 1812 was one of the famous military disasters in world history, and set the stage for Napoleon's final downfall.\n\nThe embargo encouraged British merchants to seek out new markets aggressively and to engage in smuggling with continental Europe. Napoleon's exclusively land-based customs enforcers could not stop British smugglers, especially as these operated with the connivance of Napoleon's chosen rulers of Spain, Westphalia and other German states.\nThe System had mixed effects on British trade, with British exports to the Continent falling between 25% to 55% compared to pre-1806 levels. However, trade sharply increased with the rest of the world, covering much of the decline. \n\nBritain, by Orders in Council (1807), prohibited its trade partners from trading with France. The British countered the Continental system by threatening to sink any ship that did not come to a British port or chose to comply with France. This double threat created a difficult time for neutral nations like the United States. In response to this prohibition, compounded by the Chesapeake Incident, the U.S. government adopted the Embargo Act of 1807 and eventually Macon's Bill No. 2. This embargo was designed as an economic counterattack to hurt Britain, but it proved even more damaging to American merchants. Together with the issues of the impressment of foreign seamen, and British support for Indian raids in the American west, tensions led to a declaration of war by the U.S. in the War of 1812. This war, not Napoleon's blockade, sharply reduced British trade with the United States.\n\nThe embargo also affected France itself. Shipbuilding, and its trades such as rope-making, declined, as did many other industries that relied on overseas markets, such as the linen industries. With few exports and lost profits, many industries were closed down. Southern France, especially the port cities of Marseille and Bordeaux, as well as the city of La Rochelle, suffered from the reduction in trade. Moreover, the prices of staple foods rose in most of continental Europe.\n\nNapoleon's St. Cloud Decree in July 1810 opened the southwest of France and the Spanish frontier to limited British trade, and reopened French trade to the United States. It was an admission that his blockade had hurt his own economy more than the British. It had also failed to reduce British financial support for its allies. The industrialized north and east of France, and Wallonia (the south of today's Belgium) saw significantly increased profits due to the lack of competition from British goods (particularly textiles, which were produced much more cheaply in Britain).\n\nIn Italy, the agricultural sector flourished; but the Dutch economy, predicated on trade, suffered greatly as a result of the embargo. Napoleon's economic warfare was much to the chagrin of his own brother, King Louis I of Holland.\n\nBritain's first response to the Continental system was to launch a major naval attack on the weakest link in Napoleon's coalition, Denmark. Although ostensibly neutral, Denmark was under heavy French and Russian pressure to pledge its fleet to Napoleon. London could not take the chance of ignoring the Danish threat. In the Second battle of Copenhagen in August–September 1807, the Royal Navy bombarded Copenhagen, seized the Danish fleet, and assured control of the sea lanes in the North Sea and Baltic Sea for the British merchant fleet. The island of Heligoland off the west coast of Denmark was occupied in September 1807. This base made it easier for Britain to control trade to North Sea ports and to facilitate smuggling. The attacks against Copenhagen and Heligoland started the Gunboat War against Denmark, which lasted until 1814.\n\nSweden, Britain's ally in the Third Coalition, refused to comply with French demands and was attacked by Russia in February and by Denmark/Norway in March 1808. At the same time, a French force threatened to invade southern Sweden, but the plan was stopped as the Royal Navy controlled the Danish straits. The Royal Navy set up a base outside the port of Gothenburg in 1808 to simplify operations into the Baltic Sea. The Baltic campaign was under the command of admiral James Saumarez. In November 1810 France demanded that Sweden should declare war upon the United Kingdom and stop all trade. The result was a phoney war between Sweden and Britain. A second navy base was set up on the island of Hanö in the south of Sweden in 1810. These two bases were used to support convoys from Britain to Gothenburg, then through the Danish straits to Hanö. From Hanö the goods were smuggled to the many ports around the Baltic Sea. To further support the convoys, the small Danish island of Anholt was occupied in May 1809. A lighthouse on the island simplified navigation through the Danish straits.\n\nRussia also chafed under the embargo, and in 1810 reopened trade with Britain. Russia's withdrawal from the system was a motivating factor behind Napoleon's decision to invade Russia in 1812, which proved the turning point of the war.\n\nPortugal openly refused to join the Continental System. In 1793, Portugal signed a treaty of mutual assistance with Britain. After the Treaty of Tilsit of July 1807, Napoleon attempted to capture the Portuguese Fleet and the House of Braganza, and to occupy the Portuguese ports. He failed, as king John VI of Portugal took his fleet and transferred the Portuguese Court to Brazil with a Royal Navy escort. The Portuguese population rose in revolt against the French invaders, with the help of the British Army under Arthur Wellesley, later 1st Duke of Wellington. Napoleon intervened, and the Peninsular War began in 1808. Napoleon also forced the Spanish royal family to resign their throne in favor of Napoleon's brother, Joseph.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "5077750", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5077750", "title": "Daugherty v. Vanguard", "text": "Daugherty v. Vanguard\n\nDaugherty v. Vanguard, 116 F.Supp.2d 897 (W.D. Mich. 2000) is one of a number of United States federal cases decided in the 2000s pertaining to the scope of allowable religious expression and/or activities in public schools. In the court’s summary judgment issued in September 2000, U.S. District Court Judge David McKeague ruled that Vanguard Charter Academy and its corporate parent, National Heritage Academies, did not violate the Establishment Clause of the First Amendment to the U.S. Constitution through its Moral Focus Curriculum.\n\nThe case filed in the United States District Court for the Western District of Michigan-Southern Division derives its name from plaintiff Megan Daugherty and four other parents who alleged in 1998 that their children were subjected to “Christian influences” while the children attended Vanguard Charter School Academy in Wyoming, Michigan. Judge McKeague ruled that the allegations were unfounded and granted summary judgment to Vanguard and its parent corporation.\n\nIn the court’s 36-page opinion, Judge McKeague found that the school maintained a “correct posture of neutrality” regarding religious activities during school. The court granted the school and National Heritage Academies summary judgment, finding that the defendants “presented no more than a scintilla of evidence to support a finding that any constitutionally impermissible conduct occurred.” The ruling was not appealed by the defendants. \n\nThe court’s opinion in \"Daugherty v. Vanguard\" is consistent with the U.S. Department of Education’s “Guidelines on Constitutionally Protected Prayer in Public Elementary and Secondary Schools\".\n"}
{"id": "15051401", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15051401", "title": "De divortio Lotharii regis et Theutbergae reginae", "text": "De divortio Lotharii regis et Theutbergae reginae\n\nThe De divortio Lotharii regis et Theutbergae reginae (\"On the divorce of King Lothar and Queen Theutberga\") is an extended mid ninth-century treatise written by Hincmar, Archbishop of Reims (d. 882), which survives in a single manuscript, Paris BnF. lat. 2866. It explores the issues arising from the attempt by Lothar II, king of Lotharingia (855–869), to rid himself of his wife Teutberga and replace her with his concubine, Waldrada. Hincmar is primarily concerned with defining what marriage is and how (or if) it may be ended, and with the duties of bishops and of kings. However, in the course of discussing these questions, he touches on many other issues too, and gives much detail on ninth-century politics and religious practice in Francia.\n\nThe most recent edition is that of L. Böhringer, \"De Divortio Lotharii Regis et Theutbergae Reginae\" (1992) in the \"Monumenta Germaniae Historica\" series. A provisional English-language translation can be found here.\n\n"}
{"id": "6254231", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6254231", "title": "Direct evidence", "text": "Direct evidence\n\nDirect evidence supports the truth of an assertion (in criminal law, an assertion of guilt or of innocence) directly, i.e., without an intervening inference. Circumstantial evidence, by contrast, consists of a fact or set of facts which, if proven, will support the creation of an inference that the matter asserted is true.\n\nFor example: a witness who testifies that he saw the defendant shoot the victim gives direct evidence. A witness who testifies that he saw the defendant fleeing the scene of the crime, or a forensics expert who says that ballistics proves that the defendant’s gun shot the bullet that killed the victim both give circumstantial evidence from which the defendant’s guilt may be inferred.\n\nIn direct evidence, a witness relates what he or she directly experienced. (Usually the experience is by sight or hearing, though it may come through any sense, including smell, touch or pain. \"State v Famber\", 358 Mo 288, 214 SW2d 40.)\n"}
{"id": "1025941", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1025941", "title": "Emergency exit", "text": "Emergency exit\n\nAn emergency exit in a structure is a special exit for emergencies such as a fire: the combined use of regular and special exits allows for faster evacuation, while it also provides an alternative if the route to the regular exit is blocked by fire, etc.\n\nThe qualifications for an emergency exit are as follows: it must be in a location that is easily accessible, the exit must have an area or location that it can bring people to in the event of any emergency situation, it must be controlled by the inside of the building, it must be well managed and regularly up kept, and it must be in a permanent location.\n\nIt is usually in a strategically located (e.g. in a stairwell, hallway, or other likely places) outward opening door with a crash bar on it and with exit signs leading to it. The name is a reference to when they were frequently used, however, a fire exit can also be a main doorway must be able to be unlocked from the inside of the room. A fire escape is a special kind of emergency exit, mounted to the outside of a building.\n\nFollowing the events of the Victoria Hall disaster in Sunderland, England in 1883 in which more than 180 children died because a door had been bolted at the bottom of a stairwell, the British government began legal moves to enforce minimum standards for building safety. This slowly led to the legal requirement that venues must have a minimum numbers of outward opening emergency exits as well as locks which could be opened from the inside.\n\nHowever, these moves were not globally copied for some time. For example, in the United States, 146 factory workers died in the Triangle Shirtwaist Factory fire in 1911 when they were stopped by locked exits, and 492 people died in the Cocoanut Grove fire in a Boston nightclub in 1942. This led to regulations requiring that exits of large buildings open outward, and that enough emergency exits be provided to accommodate the building's capacity.\n\nSimilar disasters around the world also resulted in public fury and calls for changes to emergency regulations and enforcement. An investigation was launched by the Argentine federal government after 194 people were killed during the 2004 República Cromañón nightclub fire in Buenos Aires, Argentina. The emergency exits had been chained shut by the owners, to prevent people from sneaking into the nightclub without paying.\n\nLocal building codes will often dictate the number of fire exits required for a building of a given size. This may include specifying the number of stairs. For any building bigger than a private house, modern codes invariably specify at least two sets of stairs. Furthermore, such stairs must be completely separate from each other. Some architects meet this requirement by housing two stairs in a \"double helix\" configuration where two stairs occupy the same floor space, intertwined. For old buildings that predate modern fire code requirements and lack space for a second staircase, having intertwining stairs so close to each other may allow firefighters going up and evacuees going down to use separate staircases. Westfield Stratford City uses this configuration in the Upper car park. This part of the building has 8 storeys: LG, G & 1 are part of the shopping centre; 2 has some offices & a storage area; CP1, CP2, CP3 & CP4 are a multi-storey car park. The floors are served by the main public lifts & escalators, & by 1 set of a double-helix stairway & lift per 1000 square metres, going into the service areas. The main public escalators don't count as fire exits, as the doors may be locked during less busy periods. The building, therefore, has one fire exit per 4000m of floor space.\n\nKnowing where the emergency exits are in buildings can save lives. Some buildings, such as schools, have fire drills to practice using emergency exits. Many disasters could have been prevented if people had known where fire escapes were and if emergency exits had not been blocked. For example, in the September 11, 2001, attacks on the World Trade Center, some of the emergency exits inside the building were inaccessible, while others were locked. In the Stardust Disaster and the 2006 Moscow hospital fire, the emergency exits were locked and most windows barred shut. In the case of the Station Nightclub, the premises was over capacity the night fire broke out, the front exit was not designed well (right outside the door, the concrete approach split 90 degrees and a railing ran along the edge), and an emergency exit swung inward, not outward as code requires.\n\nIn many countries, it is required that all new commercial buildings include well-marked emergency exits. Older buildings must be retrofitted with fire escapes. In countries where emergency exits are not standard, fires will often result in a much greater loss of life.\n\nThe UK Health and Safety (Safety Signs and Signals) Regulations 1996 define a fire safety sign as an illuminated sign or acoustic signal that provides information on escape routes and emergency exits. Well-designed emergency exit signs are necessary for emergency exits to be effective.\n\nFire escape signs usually display the word \"EXIT\" or the equivalent word in the local language with large, well-lit, green letters, or the green pictorial \"running-man\" symbol developed and adopted in Japan around 1980 and introduced in 2003 by ISO 7010. Pictorial green \"running-man\" sign is mandatory in the Japan, European Union, South Korea, Australia, New Zealand and Canada, and increasingly becoming common elsewhere.\n\nSome states in the United States currently require the exit signs to be colored red, despite the usage of color red in signage usually implies hazards, prohibited actions or stop, while the color green implies safe place/actions or to proceed. Older building code in Canada required red exit signs, but no new installation is allowed.\n\nFire fighters have cited overzealous guards who told people during a fire that they are not allowed to use emergency exits. The practice is actually quite common in the absence of fires, as well. Some skyscrapers have stairwells with standard emergency exit signs on each door, which then lock upon closing. Users of these stairwells are trapped, whether they know or do not know that the only door that opens from the inside is the one on the ground floor.\n\nA further problem becoming very common in the USA (2005) is that retail stores at night close one of their main entrance/exits through makeshift heavy metal barriers, signage, paper notes, or junk placed in front of the exits. Some actually lock their exits. A large array of signage and mechanical exit systems have also been devised, including signage that says contradictorily, \"This is not an exit,\" \"Do not use this exit,\" or warning users that a heavy penalty will be assessed for non-emergency use.\n\nSome systems do not allow the exit to be opened until the user signals the intention to exit (through a button or lever) for some amount of time, such as 20 seconds. It is also common for these exits to remain completely locked until somebody tests them.\n\nSome have alarms activated when they are opened, to alert staff of unauthorized use during non-emergencies. On many exits, the user may have to hold down a crash bar or other door opening device for a period of time to unlock the door. Many exits have a sign reading, 'emergency exit only, alarm will sound if opened', to warn of the fact that it is an emergency exit only.\n\nIn aircraft terms, an \"exit\" is any one of the main doors (entry doors on the port side of the aircraft and service doors on the starboard side) and an \"emergency exit\" is defined as a door that is only ever used in an emergency (such as overwing exits and permanently armed exits). Passengers seated in exit rows may be called upon to assist and open exits in the event of an emergency.\n\nThe number and type of exits on an aircraft is regulated through strict rules within the industry, and is based on whether the aircraft is single or twin-aisled; the maximum passenger load; and the maximum distance from a seat to an exit. The goal of these regulations is to make possible the evacuation of an airliner's designed maximum occupancy of passengers and crew within 90 seconds even if half of the available exits are blocked.\n\nAny aircraft where the emergency exit door sill height is above that which would make unaided escape possible is fitted with an automatic inflatable evacuation slide, which allows occupants to slide to the ground safely.\n† 9 passenger aircraft only\n\nVentral exits must allow the same rate of egress as a Type I exit, tailcone exit are aft of the fuselage.\nAircraft for less than 19 passenger must have one sufficient exit in each side of the fuselage, two per side for more, no more than apart from each other.\n\n"}
{"id": "23404174", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23404174", "title": "Equitable adjustment", "text": "Equitable adjustment\n\nAn equitable adjustment, in government contracting, is a contract adjustment pursuant to a changes clause, to compensate the contractor expense incurred due to actions of the Government or to compensate the Government for contract reductions. An equitable adjustment includes an allowance for profit; clauses that provide for adjustments, excluding profit, are not considered \"equitable adjustments.\"\n\n\nChanges clauses give the government the power unilaterally to order contractual modifications; in return, the contract specifies that if the parties are unable to agree on compensation to be received by the contractor for the modified work, the contractor shall be entitled to an equitable adjustment. The goal of an equitable adjustment is to place the contractor in the position he or she would have been in had the change not been encountered. The adjustment should not alter the contractor's profit or loss position from what it was before the change occurred.\nAs mutually agreed by the government and contractor.\n\nEquitable adjustments are determined by federal agencies. The cornerstone of the regulatory scheme is the Federal Acquisition Regulations System, which comprises the Federal Acquisition Regulation (hereinafter referred to as \"FAR\"), which are contained in Chapter 1 of Title 48 of the Code of Federal Regulations, and agency regulations supplementing or implementing the FAR. Generally the FAR apply to contract solicitations issued on or after April 1, 1984. Earlier contracts are governed by the prior agency regulations. The principal prior regulations were the Defense Acquisition Regulations and the Federal Procurement Regulations.\n\nThere have been several major legislative changes over the years. The Contract Disputes Act of 1978 and the Federal Courts Improvement Act of 1982 established new procedures and remedies for the resolution of disputes between the government and contractors. The Competition in Contracting Act of 1984 (CICA) encourages competitive government procurement procedures.\n\nTo paraphrase Ralph L. Jones Co. v. United States, 33 Fed. Cl. 327, 331-332 (Fed. Cl. 1995):\n\n\n"}
{"id": "8464101", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8464101", "title": "Familial homicide", "text": "Familial homicide\n\nFamilial homicide is a form of homicide recognised in England and Wales by the Domestic Violence, Crime and Victims Act 2004 and carries a prison sentence of up to 14 years.\n\nThe Act closes a legal loophole that allows those jointly accused of the murder of a child or vulnerable adult to avoid prosecution by remaining silent or blaming each other; it puts a clear legal responsibility on adults who have frequent contact with a child or vulnerable adult to take reasonable steps of protection if they knew or should have known the child or vulnerable adult was at significant risk of serious physical harm from members of that household.\n\nOn Friday, 15 December 2006, Rebecca Lewis was sentenced to six years imprisonment for failing to prevent the murder of her 13-month-old son by her boyfriend in Wales.\n\nA number of people were charged with this offence in connection with the discovery of a headless and dismembered body (which later proved to be that of Michael Gilbert ) in the Blue Lagoon, Arlesey, Bedfordshire, an English beauty spot. On 23 April 2010 James Watt, his girlfriend Natasha Oldfield, and his brother's girlfriend Nichola Roberts were convicted of murder whilst James's brothers Richard Watt and Robert Watt and his mother Jennifer Smith-Dennis were convicted of the familial homicide of Michael Gilbert.\n\nhttp://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/2004/28/section/5\n"}
{"id": "7515794", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7515794", "title": "Francis Reynolds (law professor)", "text": "Francis Reynolds (law professor)\n\nProfessor Francis Martin Baillie Reynolds (born 11 November 1932) is an emeritus professor of law at the University of Oxford and an honorary Fellow of Worcester College, Oxford. He is also a Fellow of the British Academy, an Honorary Queen's Counsel and an Honorary Bencher of the Inner Temple.\n\nReynolds was educated at Winchester and Worcester College, Oxford and was admitted to the Bar of the Inner Temple.\n\nHe specialises in international commercial law - international sales, carriage by sea, parts of the conflict of laws and the law of agency. He is the standing editor of \"Bowstead and Reynolds on Agency\" and was the editor-in-chief of the \"Law Quarterly Review\". Reynolds is also a contributing editor to \"Carver on Bills of Lading\" and \"Benjamin's Sale of Goods\".\n"}
{"id": "23502442", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23502442", "title": "Frontiers of France: minor modifications since 1815", "text": "Frontiers of France: minor modifications since 1815\n\nThis is an appendix to the article Territorial formation of France. It is concerned with the detail of the minor treaties dealing with the borders between France and its neighbours, since the Treaty of Vienna (1815). It is a translation of the appendix in the French Wikipedia article, .\n\nIn 2001, a treaty was concluded between France and Andorra mentioning amendment of the border. In it, two parcels of territory were exchanged, each 1.5 ha in area. The operation should permit Andorra to erect, on the land ceded to it, the viaduct which should link the Envalira tunnel to the French Route nationale 22.\n\nIn July 2006, a treaty between Luxembourg and France exchanged parcels of 8.096079 hectares, to allow the formation of infrastructure financed by the Government of the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg, on French territory, (in the commune of Russange, Moselle). The work was connected with the industrial site of West Belval.\n\nSince 1945 very many minor modifications of the frontier have been concluded with Switzerland.:\n"}
{"id": "47281843", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47281843", "title": "Global warming taxes", "text": "Global warming taxes\n\nIn response to widespread concerns about a general increase in the temperature of the earth's climate, a number of tax jurisdictions have proposed or imposed global warming taxes intended to generate revenues to mitigate the effects of the human activities contributing to global warming or to discourage such activities.\n\nThe idea of using taxes to fix problems, rather than merely raise government revenue, has a long history. The British economist Arthur Pigou advocated such corrective taxes to deal with pollution in the early 20th century. In his honor, economics textbooks now call them “Pigovian taxes.”\n\nUsing a Pigovian tax to address global warming is also an old idea. It was proposed as far back as 1992 by Martin S. Feldstein, once chief economist to Ronald Reagan, on the editorial page of The Wall Street Journal.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "39160931", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39160931", "title": "Hague Choice of Court Convention", "text": "Hague Choice of Court Convention\n\nThe Hague choice of court convention, formally the Convention of 30 June 2005 on Choice of Court Agreements is an international treaty concluded within the Hague Conference on Private International Law. It was concluded in 2005, and entered into force on 1 October 2015. The European Union (covering the European territory of all member states except Denmark), Denmark, Mexico and Singapore are parties to the convention. China, Montenegro, Ukraine and the United States signed the convention, but did not ratify.\n\nParties under the convention recognize a choice of court agreement between parties in the field of civil law and thus courts not chosen in the agreement will stay all proceedings (unless the chosen court refuses to uphold the jurisdiction). For the convention choice of court agreements must be \"exclusive\": which means in the context of the convention that also a group of courts may be chosen, as long as they are in the same country. It is not required for a choice of court agreement to explicitly state that the agreement is exclusive, designating a specific (set of) courts will automatically render it exclusive.\n\nJudgments by the chosen court must be recognized in all states where the convention is applicable.\n\nThe Hague Conference started with the \"Judgements project\" in 1996: the development of a convention regarding jurisdiction and recognition of judgements. Jurisdiction within such a convention would be classified in three categories: bases of jurisdiction which were obligatory, optional or prohibited. As the negotiators were not able to come to a consensus on such a convention, the scope of the work was reduced to jurisdiction and recognition of decisions based on a choice of court agreement between the parties. During the negotiations parallels were drawn between the New York Convention on arbitral awards: the aim was to create a system of recognition of decisions based on court cases where the court was chosen pursuant to a choice of court agreements, which would create the same level of predictability and enforceability as is the case in arbitral awards in New York Convention states.\n\n"}
{"id": "16168382", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16168382", "title": "Heinrich Boere", "text": "Heinrich Boere\n\nHeinrich Boere (27 September 1921 – 1 December 2013) was a convicted German-Dutch war criminal and former member of the Waffen-SS. He was on the Simon Wiesenthal Center's list of most wanted Nazi war criminals.\n\nBoere was born in Eschweiler, Germany, to a Dutch father and a German mother, but his parents moved to Maastricht when he was two years old. He volunteered for the Waffen-SS in September 1940, only months after the German occupation of the Netherlands. In June 1941 at the age of 19 he left to fight on the Eastern Front including, in 1942, service in the Caucasus. In December 1942, he contracted pyelonephritis and was sent back to Maastricht.\n\nIn 1943, Boere became a member of a 15-man Waffen-SS squad of Dutch volunteers, the \"Sonderkommando\" \"Feldmeijer\", who were given the task of killing members of the Dutch resistance and anti-German citizens in retaliation for acts of resistance against the Nazi occupation of their country. Following attacks on German occupation forces and Dutch collaborators, the SS and Police Leader for the Netherlands, Hanns Albin Rauter, ordered the \"Sonderkommando\" to retaliate by assassinating civilians presumed to be in some way connected to the resistance. This operation, codenamed \"Silbertanne\" (Silver Fir), was responsible for probably 54 known killings, three of which Boere admitted to committing.\n\nBoere’s first killing was committed in July 1944 when he and fellow SS member Jacobus Petrus Besteman received orders from the local Sicherheitsdienst (Security Service) office in Breda to murder a pharmacist named Fritz Hubert Ernst Bicknese, father of twelve. Wearing civilian clothes, Boere and Besteman walked into Bicknese’s pharmacy and asked him his identity. Upon a positive reply, Boere fired three shots into Bicknese’s upper body, then Besteman fired several more shots as Bicknese lay on the floor.\n\nIn September 1944, on a Sunday, Boere and Hendrik Kromhout arrived in Voorschoten at the home of Teun de Groot, a bicycle-shop owner and father of five children, who hid fugitives in his shop and was an acquaintance of anti-Nazi activists. As De Groot, still in his pyjamas, fumbled with his wallet to show his ID papers, Boere and Kromhout shot him. They then went to the apartment of Frans Willem Kusters, forced him into their car, and drove out of town. The pair then falsely claimed that they had a flat tire, stopped the vehicle and shot Kusters.\n\nIn the immediate post-war years, Boere spent two years in an Allied prisoner-of-war camp, where he was interrogated and admitted to the three killings. After release from the PoW camp, Boere initially went into hiding out of fear of being sentenced to a lengthy prison sentence, but managed to flee to Germany. In 1949, a Dutch court sentenced Boere to death \"in absentia\" for the three murders, for supporting the enemy, and for serving in the army of the enemy. According to Dutch law, the last automatically leads to the loss of Dutch citizenship. Boere claimed German citizenship on the basis of a so-called \"Führererlass\", a law promulgated by Hitler providing all SS-members with German citizenship. This law remained in force during the 1950s and 1960s in Germany, but was later annulled under pressure from the European Union. From that point on, Boere was stateless, which was confirmed during the trial against him that started in October 2009. The German government refused to extradite him. West Germany was responsible for prosecuting war criminals, but Boere was never brought to trial there.\n\nThe Dutch government repeatedly sought Boere’s extradition. In 1983, a German court refused the Dutch request to hand Boere over to the Dutch authorities on the grounds that Boere might have German citizenship, and Germany, at that time, did not permit extraditing its own nationals. In 2007, a court in Aachen ruled that Boere could serve his sentence in Germany, but an appeals court in Cologne overturned the ruling, saying that the 1949 conviction was invalid because Boere was unable to present a defense. Boere’s case attracted a great deal of public attention and, in 2007, the opposition in the Dutch parliament brought the case up with the Dutch Ministry of Justice. Boere was listed by the Simon Wiesenthal Center as a Nazi war criminal-at-large. Besteman, Boere’s partner in the Bicknese slaying, served time in prison in the Netherlands for his war crimes.\n\nOn 14 April 2008 the state prosecution in Dortmund announced it was preparing to file charges against Boere. On 8 January 2009, the State Court of Aachen ruled that Boere was medically unfit and did not have to stand trial in the case.\n\nThe Provincial Court of Appeal in Cologne ruled on 7 July 2009, that Boere was fit for trial, overturning the lower court's ruling. Following a judicial review by the German Constitutional Court, the court decided not to accept Boere's appeal and ruled further that Boere was indeed fit to stand trial. However, according to the court he would be under medical supervision, being provided with a doctor for the length of the trial. The trial started on 28 October 2009, at Aachen's regional court.\n\nIn 2009, Boere lived in an old-age home in his birth town of Eschweiler, Germany. He was not taken into custody for the trial against him. In an interview with \"Der Spiegel\", he said, \"I'm not interested in what happened back then.\" In a documentary by Dutch journalists Rob van Olm and Jan Louter, who were the first to bring Boere to the attention of the public, Boere did admit to some feeling of remorse and stated he has confessed his crimes to a priest, and prayed for his victims. On 23 March 2010 in Aachen, Germany, he was sentenced to life in prison. His defence, that he would have been shot had he disobeyed orders (sometimes known as the 'Nuremberg Defense'), was rejected. Following the ruling of the court, his solicitors announced that they would appeal the judgment.\n\nAfter his appeal was rejected, Boere began serving his life sentence on 16 December 2011 at the age of 90. Boere died on 1 December 2013 while in prison custody at Fröndenberg.\n\n"}
{"id": "34906434", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34906434", "title": "Income tax audit", "text": "Income tax audit\n\nIn the United States of America, an income tax audit is the examination of a business or individual tax return by the Internal Revenue Service (IRS) or state tax authority. The IRS and various state revenue departments use the terms audit, examination, review, and notice to describe various aspects of enforcement and administration of the tax laws.\n\nThe purpose of a tax audit or a return examination is to determine whether reports filed with the taxing authorities are correct. The tax agencies identify and resolve taxpayer errors.\n\nThere are several different methods used to select individuals and businesses for examination.\n\nEmployers and financial institutions, among other organizations, are required by law to send documentation (W-2's and 1099's, for example) to the IRS. The IRS uses software to ensure that the numbers on a tax return match the numbers the IRS receives from third parties. If the documentation does not match, the return may be examined.\n\nWhen a tax return is filed, the IRS uses computer software called the Discriminant Index Function System (DIF) to analyze the return for oddities and discrepancies. Once the return has been processed through DIF, it is given a score. If the DIF score is high enough (i.e. a large amount of oddities or discrepancies are found), that tax return may be selected for examination. The formulas the IRS use to create the DIF software and analysis are a closely guarded secret.\n\nFiled tax returns are also subjected to an evaluation called the UIDIF, or the Unreported Income Discriminant Index Function System. This evaluation involves the analysis of tax returns based on a series of factors to determine a tax return's potential for unreported income. Returns that are found to have a high UIDIF score (i.e. the likelihood of unreported income) and a high DIF score may be selected for examination. The IRS formulas used to calculated UDIF are secret, but it is commonly thought that the IRS uses statistical comparisons between returns to determine UIDIF potential.\n\nThe IRS selects a certain number of income tax returns to be audited each year through random selection. No errors need to be found for the Enforcement branch to examine a tax return. Random selection exams tend to be more extensive and time-consuming than other forms of review.\n\nThe practice of random selection has been a source of controversy for many years. The practice was suspended for a short time in the early 2000s amid criticism that the audits were too burdensome and intrusive. The IRS revived the practice in the fall of 2006.\n\nWhen a return is selected for examination, the taxpayer has certain rights during the process.\n\nEach state will have its own version with respect to state taxes. With respect to U.S. federal income taxation, the taxpayer has the following rights:\nA taxpayer is required only to submit the auditor information relating to the specific year listed in the audit notice.\n\nAudit representation, also called audit defense, occurs when a tax or legal professional stands in on behalf of a taxpayer during an examination. Federal law and all states allow a taxpayer to have an authorized representative. The representative must have permission to practice before the IRS or state, and specific credentials are required. The types of representatives who are allowed to represent taxpayers before the IRS in income tax audits include attorneys, certified public accountants (CPAs), and enrolled agents.\n\nA joint tax audit is the examination of a business or individual tax return by a common audit team with members of two or more States examining cross-border tax situations as one tax audit to gain a uniform actual and legal assessment concerning this situation.\n\n"}
{"id": "28184420", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28184420", "title": "Information and belief", "text": "Information and belief\n\nIn the law of evidence, the phrase information and belief identifies a statement that is made, not from firsthand knowledge, but \"based on secondhand information that the declarant believes is true\".\n\nThe phrase is often used in legal pleadings, declarations under penalty of perjury, and affidavits under oath. It is often used in a phrase similar to: \"The plaintiff is informed and believes, and upon such information and belief alleges\". This \"protects the maker of the statement from claims of outright falsehood or perjury\".\n"}
{"id": "21358203", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21358203", "title": "Instrument of Government", "text": "Instrument of Government\n\nThe Instrument of Government was a constitution of the Commonwealth of England, Scotland and Ireland. Drafted by Major-General John Lambert in 1653, it was the first sovereign codified and written constitution in England.\n\nThe \"Instrument of Government\" included elements incorporated from an earlier document \"Heads of Proposals\", which had been agreed to by the Army Council in 1647, as set of propositions intended to be a basis for a constitutional settlement after King Charles I was defeated in the First English Civil War. Charles had rejected the propositions, but before the start of the Second Civil War the \"Grandees\" (senior officers opposing the Leveller faction) of the New Model Army had presented the \"Heads of Proposals\" as their alternative to the more radical Agreement of the People presented by the Agitators and their civilian supporters at the Putney Debates.\n\nOn 4 January 1649, the Rump Parliament declared \"that the people are, under God, the original of all just power; that the Commons of England, being chosen by and representing the people, have the supreme power in this nation\". This was used as the basis for the House of Commons to pass acts of parliament which did not have to be passed by the House of Lords or receive royal assent. Two days later the Rump alone passed the act creating the high court of justice that would try Charles as a traitor. Charles was tried and executed later that month.\n\nOn 17 March, the Rump passed an act abolishing the monarchy and two days later an act abolishing the House of Lords. On 19 May 1649 the Rump passed . It was a simple declaration that Parliament would appoint \"Officers and Ministers under them for the good of the People... without any King or House of Lords\".\n\nThe \"Instrument of Government\" split the government of England across three elements.\n\n\nThe powers of the Lord Protector were limited in some areas. He could effectively temporarily veto a bill from Parliament but a second majority vote after twenty days would pass the bill.(XXIV)\nThe instrument declared \"That the supreme legislative authority of the Commonwealth of England, Scotland, and Ireland, and the dominions thereunto belonging, shall be and reside in one person, and the people assembled in Parliament: the style of which person shall be the Lord Protector of the Commonwealth of England, Scotland, and Ireland\"\nProvision for a standing army \"of 10,000 horse and dragoons, and 20,000 foot, in England, Scotland and Ireland, for the defence and security thereof\" and \"a convenient number of ships for guarding of the seas\"(XXVII). \n\nThe instrument defined the numbers of MPs to be elected to parliament but at the same time disbarred Royalists from election and temporarily from voting - (XIV) and Catholics from election or voting (XV).\n\nElectors needed to have a property holding of £200.\n\nThe \"Instrument of Government\" was adopted by the Council of Officers on 15 December 1653 and Oliver Cromwell was installed as Lord Protector on the following day. In January 1655, Cromwell dissolved the first Protectorate Parliament, ushering in a period of military rule by the Major Generals.\n\nThe \"Instrument of Government\" was replaced in May 1657 by England's second, and last, codified constitution, the Humble Petition and Advice.\n\nSince America had already been colonised by the English—in 1607, at Jamestown, and in 1620, at Plymouth—the United States has sometimes claimed this historic document as a part of its political, legal, and historic heritage.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "15960446", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15960446", "title": "International University College of Turin", "text": "International University College of Turin\n\nThe International University College of Turin, or IUC Turin, is an independent University founded in 2006 with a grant from the and . Teaching at IUC focuses on the interdisciplinary and critical study of law, economics and finance. The IUC is located in the center of the city of Turin, Italy. The Founding President of IUC is Franzo Grande Stevens. Stefano Rodotà served as President until 2014. The current President is Edoardo Reviglio.\n\nThe reported aim of the IUC is to further the study of global capitalism and the preparation of an international class of lawyers and finance experts, with a critical policy orientation. The IUC offers a two-year Master of Science in Comparative Law, Economics and Finance (MSc CLEF) degree. Starting in academic year 2010–11, the IUC also offers a one-year LL.M. degree whose title is jointly offered together with University of Turin, University of Eastern Peadmont and Collegio Carlo Alberto. \nFrom Academic Year 2016-2017, after its first ten years of existence, IUC offers an entirely newly designed Master of Research in Food Law and Finance. The program, in English, is open to an international students and develops a highly interdisciplinary approach to the Food Chain and its financialization. The degree is granted jointly with the Università Scienze Gastronomiche, established in Pollenzo by Slow Food. A special focus of teaching and research at IUC has traditionally been the study and active defence of water and the commons.\n\nThe IUC is a center for the interdisciplinary and critical study of law, economics, finance and the commons. Teachers and students from all over the world (since 2008, over 300 students from 66 countries) gather in Turin to examine the phenomenon of globalization with a particular attention to the conception of achievable long-period policies to govern its effects. To do so, research at the IUC explores the great variety of financial and institutional settings across the world in their analogies and differences to obtain a more realistic and scientific grasp on current global transformations. A successful example of this approach is the IUC Report \"At the End of the End of History. Global Legal Standards: Part of the Solution or Part of the Problem?\", which was presented at the Seminar \"Global Standards in the 21st Century\" organized by the G-8 Presidency in Rome in May 2009. The Report calls for a broader understanding of markets and the structural impact of legal institutions on their unfolding needs, and issues a challenge to the biases produced by mainstream theory, while proposing innovative solutions for the harms caused by the recent financial and economic crisis.\nThe teaching and scholarly interest for the commons as an institutional setting for a more ecologically compatible anthropocene has been the most recognisable trademark of IUC. More than 95% of IUC Alumni have received the sort of financial aid that equals free education, allowing the IUC to be one of the few really accessible global institutions of higher education.\n\nThe faculty at IUC is a mix of younger academics on a full-time basis and of stellar Associate faculty collaborators including Guido Calabresi (former Dean of the Yale Law School), Duncan Kennedy (Harvard Law School), Joseph Halevi, (Emeritus of Sidney University), Jan Toporowsky (SOAS), Gunther Frankenberg (Frankfurt). Additionally, Gunther Teubner (Goethe University Frankfurt) held a Jean Monnet \"ad personam\" chair at the International University College of Turin from 2011 to 2013, and served for 2 years as an Academic Coordinator. Former Greek Finance Minister Yanis Varoufakis is an Honorary Professor at IUC. Slow Food Founder Carlo Petrini received an Honoris Causa Master of Research at IUC in 2012 and now serves as one of the Directors of the new Food Law and Finance project. The tenth anniversary of IUC was celebrated in January 2017 with a distinguished lecture given by ecologist and system theorist Fritjof Capra. \nThe funding and current IUC Academic Coordinator is Ugo Mattei, full Professor at the universities of California Hastings and Turin. The Director is Giuseppe Mastruzzo PhD.\n\nIUC Turin has partnerships, for student and academic exchanges, with the following universities:\n\n\nThe IUC Torino campus is located in the center of Torino, adjacent to the Torino Porta Nuova railway station, the Torino Metro, and Piazza Carlo Felice (one of the central squares of Torino).\n\n"}
{"id": "23645447", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23645447", "title": "Justice and the Poor", "text": "Justice and the Poor\n\nJustice and the Poor was an article on law and ethics first published in 1919, promoting the concept of free legal assistance for the poor. It was written by Reginald Heber Smith, director of the Boston Legal Aid Society.\n\nSmith challenged the legal profession to consider it an obligation to see that access to justice was available to all, without regard to ability to pay. \"Without equal access to the law,\" he wrote, \"the system not only robs the poor of their only protection, but places in the hands of their oppressors the most powerful and ruthless weapon ever invented.\"\nAs a result of Smith's book, the American Bar Association created the Special Committee on Legal Aid Work. By the middle of the 20th century, virtually every major metropolitan area had some kind of legal aid program.\n"}
{"id": "22494577", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22494577", "title": "Law and Critique", "text": "Law and Critique\n\nLaw and Critique (print: , online: ) is a triannual law journal closely involved with the critical legal studies community. It was established in 1990 and is associated with the Critical Legal Conference. \"Law and Critique\" takes a critical perspective on all aspects of legal theory, jurisprudence, and substantive law and covers the influences of a variety of schools of thought into legal scholarship (such as postmodernism, feminism, queer theory, critical race theory, literary approaches to law, psychoanalysis, law and the humanities, law and aesthetics, and post-colonialism).\n\nIt is not affiliated with any law school.\n\n"}
{"id": "4107174", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4107174", "title": "List of generic and genericized trademarks", "text": "List of generic and genericized trademarks\n\nThe following three lists of generic and genericized trademarks are:\n\nThe following partial list contains marks which were originally legally protected trademarks, but which have subsequently lost legal protection as trademarks by becoming the common name of the relevant product or service, as used both by the consuming public and commercial competitors. These marks were determined in court to have become generic. Some marks retain trademark protection in certain countries despite being declared generic in others.\n\n\n\nThe following partial list contains marks which were originally legally protected trademarks, but which have subsequently lost legal protection as trademarks due to abandonment, non-renewal or improper issuance (the generic term predated the registration). Some marks retain trademark protection in certain countries despite being generic in others.\n\n\nMarks in this partial list are still legally protected as trademarks, at least in some jurisdictions, but are sometimes used by consumers in a generic sense. Unlike the names in the list above, these names are still widely known by the public as brand names, and are not used by competitors. Scholars disagree as to whether the use of a recognized trademark name for similar products can truly be called \"generic\", or if it is instead a form of synecdoche.\n\nThe previous list contains trademarks that have completely lost their legal status in some countries, while the following list contains marks which have been registered as trademarks, continue in use, and are actively enforced by their trademark owners. Writing guides such as the \"AP Stylebook\" advise writers to \"use a generic equivalent unless the trademark is essential to the story\".\n\nPlease note that other generic terms may be equally appropriate.\n"}
{"id": "47757559", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47757559", "title": "Matrimonial nullity trial reforms of Pope Francis", "text": "Matrimonial nullity trial reforms of Pope Francis\n\nThe matrimonial nullity trial reforms of Pope Francis are the reforms of Catholic canon law governing such trials, made public 8 September 2015. The reforms were effected by two separate apostolic letters from Pope Francis, the motu proprio \"Mitis iudex dominus Iesus\" amending the 1983 Code of Canon Law, and the motu proprio \"Mitis et misericors Iesus\" amending the Code of Canons of the Eastern Churches. This was in response to the Bishops who, during the Synod on the Family of 5-9 October 2014, called for simplification of the procedure whereby a legally invalid marriage is declared null.\n\nAt the press conference announcing the reforms, Cardinal Francesco Coccopalmerio, the president of the Pontifical Council for Legislative Texts, emphasized that the Church does not decree the \"annulment\" of a legally valid marriage, but rather declares the \"nullity\" of a legally invalid marriage.\n\nThere are three main reforms:\n\nThe reforms took legal effect on 8 December 2015.\n\nThe expedited process may take as few as 120 days.\n\nThe reforms were proposed by a group of experts in matrimonial jurisprudence. According to experts at the Vatican, they are the most expansive revision in matrimonial nullity jurisprudence in centuries. The reforms move away from 18th century matrimonial nullity reforms of the canonist Pope Benedict XIV.\n\nAusten Ivereigh described the reforms as \"revolutionary\" and says that they are the broadest reforms in 300 years.\n\nKurt Martens, a canon law professor, worries that the reduction in procedure will not guarantee a fair trial. He likened the reforms to the Catholic Church providing a means of no-fault divorce. In an article published by conservative religious journal \"First Things\", Martens stated that many Italian jurists fear that there might be a spike in conflicts between the canonical, Italian, and European Union judicial systems, since the reforms abolish a number of \"basic due process norms\" which are neither respected nor acknowledged. In his view, this renders the canonical judicial system \"incompatible\" with modern judicial procedure.\n\nU.S. Cardinal Raymond Burke, former Prefect of the Supreme Tribunal of the Apostolic Signatura, raised concerns over the prudence of the reforms, stating that Pope John Paul II, when preparing the 1983 Code of Canon Law, had rejected many of the same reforms accepted by Pope Francis, and cited the centuries of development of the former nullity trial process regarding legal certainty of the truth.\n\nPope Francis reflected after the 2014 Synod on the Family that: \"A great number of synod fathers emphasized the need to make the procedure in cases of nullity more accessible and less time-consuming, and, if possible, at no expense.\" Between 1970 and 1983 the United States bishops had experimented with the possibility of one rather than two hearings and 90% of the cases were decided without the second tribunal. But the Code of Canon Law of 1983 eliminated this possibility, now restored through Pope Francis' revisions. Others saw that \"Putting the poor at the centre is what distinguishes the reform of Pope Francis.\" In the words of the \"motu proprio\": \"Care is to be taken that everyone, parties or witnesses, can participate in the process at a minimum of cost.\"\n"}
{"id": "42611", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42611", "title": "McLibel case", "text": "McLibel case\n\nMcDonald's Corporation v Steel & Morris [1997] EWHC QB 366, known as \"the McLibel case\", was an English lawsuit for libel filed by McDonald's Corporation against environmental activists Helen Steel and David Morris (often referred to as \"The McLibel Two\") over a factsheet critical of the company. Each of two hearings in English courts found some of the leaflet's contested claims to be libellous and others to be true. The partial nature of the victory, the David-and-Goliath nature of the case, and the drawn-out litigation embarrassed McDonald's.\n\nThe original case lasted nearly ten years which, according to the BBC, made it the longest-running libel case in English history. McDonald's announced it did not plan to collect the £40,000 it was awarded by the courts. Following the decision, the European Court of Human Rights (ECHR) ruled in \"Steel & Morris v United Kingdom\" the pair had been denied a fair trial, in breach of Article 6 of the European Convention on Human Rights (right to a fair trial) and their conduct should have been protected by Article 10 of the Convention, which protects the right to freedom of expression. The court awarded a judgement of £57,000 against the UK government. McDonald's itself was not involved in, or a party to, this action, as applications to the ECHR are independent cases filed against the relevant state.\n\nIn 2013 it was revealed that one of the authors of the \"McLibel leaflet\", Bob Lambert, had been an undercover police officer who had infiltrated London Greenpeace. In 2016 it was revealed that a second undercover police officer, John Dines, had a sexual, romantic relationship with Helen Steel.\n\nFranny Armstrong and Ken Loach made a documentary film, \"McLibel\", about the case.\n\nLondon Greenpeace was a small environmental campaigning group which existed between 1972 and 2001. They were not affiliated with the larger Greenpeace International organisation, which they declined to join as they saw it being too \"centralised and mainstream for their tastes\".\n\nIn 1990, McDonald's brought libel proceedings against five London Greenpeace supporters, Paul Gravett, Andrew Clarke and Jonathan O'Farrell, as well as Steel and Morris, for distributing the sheet on the streets of London. This case followed past instances in which McDonald's threatened to sue more than fifty organisations for libel, including Channel 4 television and several major publications. In all such cases, the media outlets settled, and offered apologies for the alleged libel.\n\nUnder English defamation law, the defendant must show that each disparaging statement made is substantively true. This can be an expensive and time-consuming process. Three of the charged individuals (Gravett, Clarke and O'Farrell) chose to apologise as requested by McDonald's. Steel and Morris, however, chose to defend the case.\n\nThe two were denied Legal Aid, as was policy for libel cases, despite having very limited income. Thus, they had to represent themselves, though they received significant pro bono assistance. Steel and Morris called 180 witnesses, seeking to prove their assertions about food poisoning, unpaid overtime, misleading claims about how much McDonald's recycled, and \"corporate spies sent to infiltrate the ranks of London Greenpeace\". McDonald's spent several million pounds, while Steel and Morris spent £30,000; this disparity in funds meant Steel and Morris were not able to call all the witnesses they wanted, especially witnesses from South America who were intended to support their claims about McDonald's activities in that continent's rainforests.\n\nIn its libel allegation, McDonald's asserted all claims in the pamphlet as being false. They found it difficult to support this position despite the indirectness of some of the claims. The case eventually became a media circus. McDonald's executives, including Ray Cesca, entered the witness box, enabling cross-examination by the defendants.\n\nIn June 1995 McDonald's offered to settle the case (which \"was coming up to its [tenth] anniversary in court\") by donating a large sum of money to a charity chosen by the two. They further specified they would drop the case if Steel and Morris agreed to \"stop criticising McDonald's\". Steel and Morris secretly recorded the meeting, in which McDonald's said the pair could criticise McDonald's privately to friends but must cease talking to the media or distributing leaflets. Steel and Morris wrote a letter in response saying they would agree to the terms if McDonald's ceased advertising its products and instead only recommended the restaurant privately to friends.\n\nThe case was adjudicated by Hon. Mr Justice Rodger Bell. On 19 June 1997, Bell delivered a more than 1,000-page decision largely in favour of McDonald's, summarised by a 45-page paper read in court. Steel and Morris were found liable on several points, but the judge also found some of the points in the factsheet were true. McDonald's considered this a legal victory, though it was tempered by the judge's endorsement of some of the allegations in the sheet. Specifically, Bell ruled McDonald's endangered the health of their workers and customers by \"misleading advertising\", and they \"exploit children\", that they were \"culpably responsible\" in the infliction of unnecessary cruelty to animals, and they were \"antipathetic\" to unionisation and paid their workers low wages. Furthermore, although the decision awarded £60,000 to the company, McDonald's legal costs were much greater, and the defendants lacked the funds to pay it. Steel and Morris immediately appealed against the decision.\n\nIn 1998 a documentary film was made about the case, also titled \"McLibel\". This was updated in 2005 after the verdict of the final appeal.\n\nIn September 1998, the pair sued the Metropolitan Police for disclosing confidential information to investigators hired by McDonald's and received £10,000 and an apology for the alleged disclosure.\n\nAn appeal began on 12 January 1999 and lasted 23 court days, ending on 26 February. The case was heard in Court 1 of the Court of Appeal in the Royal Courts of Justice. The case was adjudicated by Lord Justices Pill and May and Mr Justice Keane. The defendants represented themselves in court, assisted by first year law student Kalvin P. Chapman (King's College London). McDonald's were represented by libel lawyer Richard Rampton QC, and a junior barrister, Timothy Atkinson, and Ms Pattie Brinley-Codd of Barlow, Lyde & Gilbert. Steel and Morris filed a 63-point appeal. They had requested a time extension, but were denied. The verdict for the appeal was handed down on 31 March, in Court 1 at the Royal Courts of Justice.\n\nThe judges ruled it was fair comment to say that McDonald's employees worldwide \"do badly in terms of pay and conditions\" and true \"if one eats enough McDonald's food, one's diet may well become high in fat, etc., with the very real risk of heart disease\". They further stated the last finding \"must have a serious effect on their trading reputation since it goes to the very business in which they are engaged. In our judgment, it must have a greater impact on the respondents' [McDonald's] reputation than any other of the charges that the trial judge had found to be true\".\n\nThe Court of Appeal also stated that it had \"considerable sympathy\" with the defendants' submissions that the leaflet meant \"that there is a respectable body of medical opinion which links a junk food diet with a risk of cancer and heart disease\", that 'this link was accepted both in literature published by McDonald's themselves and by one or more of McDonald's own experts and in medical publications of high repute', and that therefore 'that should have been an end of this part of the case'. They ruled against the defendants on the allegation that McDonald's food was a carcinogen.\n\nAs a result of their further findings against the Corporation, the three Lord Justices reduced Mr Justice Bell's award of £60,000 damages to McDonald's by £20,000. The court ruled against the argument by Steel and Morris that multinational corporations should no longer be able to sue for libel over public interest issues; they believed \"that may be seen as an argument of some substance\", but ultimately rejected it, on grounds that it was a matter for Parliament. Steel and Morris announced their intention to appeal over these and other points to the House of Lords, and then take the UK government to the European Court of Human Rights if necessary.\n\nIn response to the verdict, David Pannick QC said in \"The Times\": \"The McLibel case has achieved what many lawyers thought impossible: to lower further the reputation of our law in the minds of all right thinking people.\"\n\nSteel and Morris appealed to the Law Lords, arguing that their right to legal aid had been unjustly denied. When the Law Lords refused to accept the case, the pair formally retained solicitor Mark Stephens and barrister (later Director of Public Prosecutions (England and Wales)), Keir Starmer QC to file a case with the European Court of Human Rights (ECHR), contesting the UK government's policy that legal aid was not available in libel cases, and setting out a highly detailed case for what they believed to be the oppressive and unfair nature of UK libel laws in general, and in their case in particular. In September 2004, this action was heard by the ECHR. Lawyers for Steel and Morris argued that the lack of legal aid had breached the pair's right to freedom of expression and to a fair trial.\n\nOn 15 February 2005, the European Court of Human Rights ruled that the original case had breached Article 6 (right to a fair trial) and Article 10 (right to freedom of expression) of the European Convention on Human Rights and ordered that the UK government pay Steel and Morris £57,000 in compensation. In their ruling, the ECHR criticised the way in which UK laws had failed to protect the public right to criticise corporations whose business practices affect people's lives and the environment (which violates Article 10); they also ruled that the trial was biased because of the defendants' comparative lack of resources and what they believed were complex and oppressive UK libel laws.\n\nIn particular the Court held:\n\nIn response to the European Court of Human Rights' decision, Steel and Morris issued the following press release:\n\nHaving largely beaten McDonald's... we have now exposed the notoriously oppressive and unfair UK laws. As a result of the... ruling today, the government may be forced to amend or scrap some of the existing UK laws. We hope that this will result in greater public scrutiny and criticism of powerful organisations whose practices have a detrimental effect on society and the environment. The McLibel campaign has already proved that determined and widespread grass roots protests and defiance can undermine those who try to silence their critics, and also render oppressive laws unworkable. The continually growing opposition to McDonald's and all it stands for is a vindication of all the efforts of those around the world who have been exposing and challenging the corporation's business practices. \n\nIn the course of the UK undercover policing relationships scandal it was revealed that one of the authors of the \"McLibel leaflet\" was Bob Lambert, an undercover police officer who infiltrated London Greenpeace; John Dines, another undercover officer, was also Helen Steel's partner for two years.\n\nThe Defamation Act 2013 brought some changes to libel cases, which were expected to make it harder for corporations to abuse libel law.\n\nThe McLibel case also raised awareness about how defamation proceedings can harm the reputation of companies which raise them, similar to the Streisand effect.\n\nThe \"McLibel\" film quoted McDonald's as offering little comment on the European Court decision other than to point out that it was the Government and not McDonald's who was the losing party and that \"times have changed and so has McDonald's\".\n\nOn a website aiming to state its view on issues raised about it, McDonald's stated that the case is in the past and the issues more so, and that both sides in it have moved on (although Morris and Steel did continue related litigation).\n\nA feature-length documentary film, \"McLibel\", was made about the case by Franny Armstrong and Ken Loach in 1997. An extended version was produced in 2005.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "9006940", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9006940", "title": "Mediterranean pass", "text": "Mediterranean pass\n\nThe Mediterranean pass (or Mediterranean passport, the name used in the United States) was a document which identified a ship as being protected under a treaty with states of the Barbary Coast. Now known as the Barbary pirates, these states required countries to pay tribute in exchange for not capturing that country's ships and crews. These passes identified ships which had safe passage.\n\nThe top of the British document was cut off in an erratic scalloped pattern used to confirm its authenticity. The matching top of the document was sent to officials along the Barbary Coast, so cruisers from those ports would have samples for comparison with the edge of the documents. A similar design was adopted by the United States, although U.S. Consul General in Algiers Richard O'Brien pointed out the document should be on thicker paper (or parchment) and kept in a tin container so as to ensure a better match between tops and bottoms (he also suggested that ships fly the American flag rather than the flags of individual states).\n\nCountries known to have issued such documents include:\n\nThe United States issued Mediterranean passports starting with a September 5, 1795, treaty with the Dey of Algiers,\nand continued through the mid-19th century.\n\nFor about 300 years, the Mediterranean Sea lanes were largely controlled by the north African Muslim states of the Barbary Coast (Tripoli, Algiers, Morocco, and Tunis) through piracy. Hostages were either ransomed or sold into slavery. Over time, most countries found it expedient to simply pay a yearly tribute (bribe) to the Barbary sultans in exchange for safe passage through the Mediterranean.\n\nFollowing the American Revolution, America was no longer under the protection of the British tribute treaties, resulting in the crippling of American commerce in the Mediterranean. Having no significant navy, the U.S. decided to form tribute treaties with the Barbary states, such as the 1796 Treaty of Tripoli. This treaty required ship's passports within 18 months.\n\n"}
{"id": "32561468", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32561468", "title": "Ministry of Justice (Serbia)", "text": "Ministry of Justice (Serbia)\n\nThe Ministry of Justice of the Republic of Serbia () is the ministry in the Government of Serbia which is in the charge of justice. The current minister is Nela Kuburović, in office since 11 August 2016.\n\nThere are several agencies and institutions that operate within the scope of the Ministry:\n\n\nPolitical Party:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2267488", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2267488", "title": "Mule (smuggling)", "text": "Mule (smuggling)\n\nA mule or courier is someone who personally smuggles contraband across a border (as opposed to sending by mail, etc.) for a smuggling organization. The organizers employ mules to reduce the risk of getting caught themselves. Methods of smuggling include hiding the goods in vehicles or carried items, attaching them to one's body, or using the body as a container.\n\nIn the case of transporting illegal drugs, the term drug mule applies. Other slang terms include Kinder Surprise and Easter Egg. Small-scale operations, in which one courier carries one piece or a very small quantity, are sometimes called the ant trade.\n\nMethods of smuggling include hiding the goods in a vehicle, luggage, or clothes. In a vehicle, the contraband is hidden in secret compartments.\n\nSometimes the goods are hidden in the bag or vehicle of an innocent person, who does not know about the contraband, for the purpose of retrieving the goods elsewhere.\n\nSome contraband is legal to possess but is subject to taxes or other import restrictions, such as second-hand clothes and computers, and the purpose of the smuggling is to get around these restrictions. In this case, smuggling may be done in plain sight, in smaller quantities, so that a suitcase full of used clothes or a new computer can be passed off as a personal possession rather than an importing business.\n\nThe practice of transporting goods outside or inside of the body is called body packing. This is done by a person usually called a mule, or bait. The contraband is attached to the outside of the body using adhesive tape, glue, or straps, often in such places as between the cheeks of the buttocks or between rolls of fat. Other inconspicuous places, like the soles of cut out shoes, inside belts, or the rim of a hat, were used more often prior to the early 1990s. Due to increased airport security the \"body packing\" method is rarely used any more.\n\nSome narcotics-trafficking organizations such as the Mexican Cartels will purposely send one or two people with drugs on the outside of their body to purposely be caught, so that the authorities are occupied while dozens of mules pass by undetected with drugs inside their body. However, even these diversion tactics are becoming less and less prevalent as airport security increases.\n\nThis is often done using a mule's gastrointestinal tract or other body cavities as containers. Swallowing has been used for the transportation of heroin, cocaine, and MDMA/Ecstasy. A swallower typically fills tiny balloons with small quantities of a drug. The balloons may be made with multilayered condoms, fingers of latex gloves, or more sophisticated hollow pellets. One smuggling method involves swallowing the balloons, which are recovered later from the excreted feces. Alternately, the balloons may be hidden in other natural or artificial body cavities – such as rectum, colostomy, vagina, and mouth – although this method is far more vulnerable to body cavity searches. A drug mule may swallow dozens upon dozens of balloons. The swallower then attempts to cross international borders, excrete the balloons, and sell the drugs.\n\nIt is most common for the swallower to be making the trip on behalf of a drug lord or drug dealer. Swallowers are often impoverished and agree to transport the drugs in exchange for money or other favors. In fewer cases, the drug dealers can attempt extortion against people by threatening physical harm against friends or family, but the more common practice is for swallowers to willingly accept the job in exchange for big payoffs. As reported in \"Lost Rights\" by James Bovard: \"Nigerian drug lords have employed an army of 'swallowers', those who will swallow as many as 150 balloons and smuggle drugs into the United States. Given the per capita yearly income of Nigeria is $2,100, Nigerians can collect as much as $15,000 per trip.\"\n\nSwallowers have been apprehended from a variety of age groups, including adults, teens, and children.\n\nRoutine detection of the smuggled packets is extremely difficult, and many cases come to light because a packet has ruptured or because of intestinal obstruction. Unruptured packets may sometimes be detected by rectal or vaginal examination, but the only reliable way is by X-ray of the abdomen. Hashish appears denser than stool, cocaine is approximately the same density as stool, while heroin looks like air.\n\nAn increasingly popular type of swallowing involves having the drug in the form of liquid-filled balloons or condoms/packages. These are impossible to detect unless the airport has high-sensitivity X-Ray equipment, as a liquid mixture of water and the drug will most likely not be detected using a standard X-Ray machine. Most of the major airports in Europe, Canada, and the US have the more sensitive machines.\n\nIn most cases, it is only necessary to wait for the packets to pass normally, but if a packet ruptures or if there is intestinal obstruction, then it may be necessary to operate and surgically remove the packets. Oil-based laxatives should never be used, as they can weaken the latex of condoms and cause packets to rupture. Emetics like syrup of ipecac, enemas, and endoscopic retrieval all carry a risk of packet rupture and should not be used. Repeat imaging is only necessary if the mule does not know the packet count.\n\nRuptured packets can be fatal and often require treatment as for a drug overdose and may require admission to an intensive care unit. Body packers are not always reliable sources of information about the contents of the packages (either because of fears about information being passed on to law enforcement agencies or because the mule genuinely does not know). Urine toxicology may be necessary to determine what drugs are being carried and what antidotes are needed.\n\nElectronic products such as iPhones sell cheaper in Hong Kong, one of China's Special Administrative Regions where the tax laws are relaxed. Smugglers buy them in Hong Kong and employ mules that strap iPhones around their waists and ankles and smuggle them across the border from Hong Kong to Shenzhen. According to Customs Law of China and Smuggling Penalties, a person shall be subject to a criminal charge if found smuggling small quantities of goods three times in one year. The maximum jail sentence is three years.\n\nThe U.S. Supreme Court dealt with body packing in \"United States v. Montoya De Hernandez\". In \"Hernandez\", a woman attempted to smuggle 88 balloons of cocaine in her gastrointestinal tract. She had been detained for over 16 hours by customs inspectors before she finally passed some of the balloons. She was being held because her abdomen was noticeably swollen (she claimed to be pregnant), and a search of her body had revealed that she was wearing two pairs of elastic underpants and had lined her crotch area with paper towels. This is done because balloon swallowing makes bowel movements difficult to control. The woman claimed her Fourth Amendment rights had been violated, but the court found in favor of the border authorities.\n\nWith regard to traffic from South America to the US, the US Drug Enforcement Administration reports: \"Unlike cocaine, heroin is often smuggled by people who swallow large numbers of small capsules (50–90), allowing them to transport up to 1.5 kilograms of heroin.\n\nIn 2003, over 50% of foreign females in UK jails were drug mules from Jamaica. Nigerian women make a large contribution to the remaining figure.\n\nIn all, around 18% of the UK's female jail population are foreigners, 60% of whom are serving sentences for drug-related offences – most of them drug mules.\n\n"}
{"id": "1295305", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1295305", "title": "National Youth Advocacy Service", "text": "National Youth Advocacy Service\n\nNYAS is a UK charity providing socio-legal services through teams of advocates and lawyers. NYAS offers information, advice, advocacy and legal representation to children, young people and vulnerable adults throughout England and Wales. NYAS provides a safety net for people of all ages who have nowhere else to turn.\n\nNYAS provides a range of information, advocacy and legal services for children, young people and vulnerable adults to enable them to speak for themselves. NYAS advocates and lawyers help clients to express their wishes and feelings and to participate in decision making and planning that affects their lives. The charity also influences local and national policy makers and practitioners to acknowledge the legitimacy and importance of children's, young people's and vulnerable adult's rights. Formerly known as the National Youth Advocacy Service, the charity changed its name to NYAS in March 2012. NYAS works for the implementation of the United Nations Convention on the Rights of the Child.\n\nNYAS operates a freephone helpline providing access to all its services within England and Wales. The Helpline is open 9am until 8pm weekdays and 10am until 4pm on Saturdays excluding Bank Holidays. Assistance from advice workers is also available via chatroom, email and in writing.\n\nNYAS provides a range of rights based services for children, young people and vulnerable adults through a network of qualified advocates. Advocates ensure that the views of children, young people and vulnerable adults are listened to, particularly in decisions which are made about them. Advocacy is also offered to carers to help them access services. \n\nNYAS provides advocates for visits to children’s homes (including secure homes) and inpatient settings. NYAS Independent Mental Health Advocates (IMHAs) also offer assistance to patients who are detained in hospital.\n\nNYAS is able to provide volunteer Independent Visitors for children in care across England and Wales, Independent Persons for the purposes of secure reviews and local authority complaints and Investigating Officers for complaints and Regulation 44 Visitors for children’s homes.\n\n\"Family Law\". NYAS provides separate representation for children and young people where a family court considers it necessary under the Family Procedure Rules 2010 (FPR). Under FPR, ‘a child who is capable of forming his or her own views has the right to express those views in the proceedings with the views being given due weight in accordance with the age and maturity of the child. The child should have the opportunity to have their situation represented separately from that of any of the adults.’\n\nCommunity Care Law, Public Law and Education Law.NYAS has a contract with the Legal Services Commission (LSC) to offer specialist help where there is a refusal by the local authority to undertake an assessment of community care needs or a failure to provide the necessary services under legislation such as The National Health Service and Community Care Act 1990. NYAS also holds contracts with the LSC to offer help to anyone wishing to challenge the decision of a public authority. This could be a complaint, an appeal to a tribunal or court proceedings such as a judicial review or obtaining an assessment and support for children and young people with special educational needs.\n\nNYAS is a Children and Family Court Advisory and Support Service (CAFCASS) approved provider of the Separated Parents Information Programme (SPIP - Children and Adoption Act 2006).\n\nNYAS is an accredited assessment centre for City & Guilds and Open College Network to deliver training in advocacy and children’s rights. NYAS offers The National Advocacy Qualification and specialist units including the IMHA (Independent Mental Health Advocacy) award.\n\nNYAS operates under the name NYAS Cymru in Wales. NYAS Cymru is supported by The National Assembly for Wales.\n\nThe majority of funding for NYAS’ work comes from statutory sources. Individual, corporate and trust fundraising forms a small but developing area of income.\n\n"}
{"id": "8389180", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8389180", "title": "New York Disability Benefits Law", "text": "New York Disability Benefits Law\n\nThe New York Disability Benefits Law (DBL) is article 9 of the Workers' Compensation Law (which is itself chapter 67 of the Consolidated Laws of New York) and creates a state disability insurance program designed to provide employees with some level of income replacement in case of disability caused off-the-job.\n\nTo be required to have DBL coverage for its employees, a company must employ at least one person besides the proprietor within the state of New York. Full-time employees are eligible for coverage after four consecutive weeks of work, and part-time employees are eligible after their twenty-fifth day of employment.\n\nOut of state employees can be covered under some DBL policies, but the employer must have some New York employees in order to attain DBL coverage.\n\nDBL insurance groups are divided up into those covering fewer than 50 employees and those with 50 or more employees.\n\nEmployers with less than 50 employees are written at rates which are fixed for all groups, but that vary from one insurance carrier to another. Rates for employers with less than 50 employees are usually written as a dollar cost per employee, per month. These rates are further divided into separate male and female rates (which are higher than the male rates), to reflect the impact that pregnancy has on DBL claims. Many carriers offer a discounted rate for employers willing to pay all of their premium at the beginning of the year. If a carrier offers this option, the rate will be expressed as a dollar amount per male per year, and per female per year.\n\nCarriers are prevented by the state Worker's compensation Board from raising or lowering their rates for groups with fewer than 50 lives. If a carrier's overall loss ratio (claims paid divided by premium) for their groups with less than 50 employees is too low, then the Worker's compensation Board may force the carrier to lower their rates for all of the groups with fewer than 50 covered lives.\n\nEmployers with 50 or more employees are not given fixed rates, but will request a quote from various insurance carriers through an insurance agent or broker. These rates can vary considerably and are based on the overall risk factors of the case. Carriers are permitted to review these groups and increase or decrease the rates based on the claims paid to the group and the premiums that the group pays to the carrier. These reviews are generally conducted quarterly, and the carriers will issue letters to the policyholders and their insurance brokers indicating the proposed changes in rate.\n\nRates for cases with more than 50 employees are usually given as a dollar amount per employee, per month (called a \"per capita rate\") with no division into male- and female-specific rates, or as a dollar amount per $100 of covered payroll. Other, less common rate structures include offering a dollar amount per male and per female (as with the groups with less than 50 employees), and offering a dollar amount per $10 of benefit.\n\nAs of 2006, DBL offers a benefit of 50% of weekly wages to a maximum of $170 per week of benefit. The normal waiting period for DBL benefits to start is seven days, and benefits can extend to a maximum duration of 26 weeks.\n\nIt is possible for carriers to offer benefits that extend beyond the statutory DBL coverage known as \"enhanced\" or \"enriched\" DBL. This extended coverage usually takes the form of a higher maximum benefit, but can also include shorter waiting periods or a longer maximum duration. Carriers take these factors into account when underwriting DBL coverage, and so enriched DBL is often more costly than statutory DBL coverage.\n\nAn employer is allowed, but not required, to collect contributions from its employees to offset the cost of providing benefits. An employee's contribution is computed at the rate of one-half of one percent of his/her wages, but no more than sixty cents a week (WCL §209).\n\nIn 2016, Governor Cuomo signed into law the Paid Family Leave policy. Starting January 1, 2018, the New York State Paid Family Leave Program provides New Yorkers job-protected, paid leave to bond with a new child, care for a loved one with a serious health condition or to help relieve family pressures when someone is called to active military service. Coverage for this benefit will generally be provided as a rider to the DBL insurance policy. For employers who are not required to have DBL coverage, PFL coverage may be obtained on a stand-alone basis. (NYCRR 380).\n\n\n"}
{"id": "18934985", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18934985", "title": "North Coast Women's Care Medical Group, Inc. v. Superior Court", "text": "North Coast Women's Care Medical Group, Inc. v. Superior Court\n\nNorth Coast Women's Care Medical Group vs. Superior Court () is a case decided before the California Supreme Court on August 19, 2008, ruling that physicians must offer IUI infertility services to gays and lesbians despite religious objections or find a colleague in their office who will do so.\n\nThe suit was brought by Guadalupe Benitez, a lesbian from Oceanside, California, who was treated in 1999 for infertility at the only clinic in her area that accepted her insurance. Two physicians at the North Coast Women's Care Medical Group, Christine Brody and Douglas Fenton, refused to perform an artificial insemination treatment on Benitez because they claimed that such treatment to an unmarried person violated their Christian religious beliefs.\n\nAfter she was denied treatment, Benitez argued in court that the physicians and the clinic really based their decision on her being a lesbian. This violated the Unruh Civil Rights Act, a state law prohibiting discrimination based on sex, gender, sexual orientation, race, and ethnicity covering places of business and public accommodation; marital status was not addressed until 2006. She won at the trial court level in San Diego, but that decision was later overturned by a state appeals court. The California State Supreme Court's decision favoring Benitez was unanimous.\n\nWriting for the court, justice Kennard said\n"}
{"id": "55663", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55663", "title": "Pendleton Civil Service Reform Act", "text": "Pendleton Civil Service Reform Act\n\nThe Pendleton Civil Service Reform Act (ch. 27, ) is a United States federal law enacted in 1883 that mandated that positions within the federal government should be awarded on the basis of merit instead of political affiliation. The act provided selection of government employees by competitive exams, rather than ties to politicians or political affiliation. It also made it illegal to fire or demote government officials for political reasons and prohibited soliciting campaign donations on Federal government property. To enforce the merit system and the judicial system, the law also created the United States Civil Service Commission. This board would be in charge of determining the rules and regulations of the act. The act also allowed for the president, by executive order, to decide which positions would be subject to the act and which would not. A result was the shift of the parties to reliance on funding from business, since they could no longer depend on patronage.\n\nIn 1877, there was growing interest in the United States concerning the effects of the spoils system on the American political system. New York City established the Civil Service Reform Association to help address the issues, which would lead to several other organizations like it appearing in other cities. The presence of these organizations was one of the first steps in trying to up end the spoils system in America.\n\nThe assassination of President James A. Garfield moved the Civil Service Reform from city organizations to a leading topic in the political realm. President Garfield was shot in July 1881 by Charles Guiteau, because Guiteau believed the president owed him a patronage position for his \"vital assistance\" in securing Garfield's election the previous year. Garfield died two months later, and Vice President Chester A. Arthur acceded to the presidency. Once in office, President Arthur pushed through legislation for civil reform.\n\nOn January 16, 1883 Congress passed the Civil Service Act, which is sometimes referred to as the Pendleton Act after Senator George H. Pendleton of Ohio, one of the primary sponsors. The Act was written by Dorman Bridgman Eaton, a staunch opponent of the patronage system who was later first chairman of the United States Civil Service Commission. However, the law would also prove to be a major political liability for Arthur. The law offended machine politicians, or politicians who belong to a small clique that controls a political party. These politicians realized that with the Pendleton Act in place they would have to find a new means of income, since they could no longer count on donations from the wealthy hoping to receive jobs.\n\nThe Act initially covered only about 10% of the U.S. government's civilian employees. However, there was a provision that allowed outgoing presidents to lock in their own appointees by converting jobs to civil service. After a series of party reversals at the presidential level (1884, 1888, 1892, 1896), the result was that most federal jobs were under civil service.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "927184", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=927184", "title": "Penguin Group", "text": "Penguin Group\n\nThe Penguin Group is a trade book publisher and part of Penguin Random House. It is owned by Pearson PLC, the global education and publishing company, and Bertelsmann, the German media conglomerate. The new company was created by a merger that was finalised on 1 July 2013, with Bertelsmann owning 53% of the joint venture, and Pearson controlling the remaining 47%.\n\nPenguin Books has its registered office in City of Westminster, London.\n\nIts British division is \"Penguin Books Ltd.\" Other separate divisions can be found in the United States, Ireland, New Zealand, India, Australia, Canada, China, Brazil and South Africa.\n\nPenguin Books Ltd. (est. 1935) of the United Kingdom was bought over by Pearson Longman in 1970. In 1975, Penguin acquired the American hardcover firm Viking Press. In 1986, Penguin acquired the New American Library, a mass-market paperback publisher.\n\nPenguin Group (USA) Inc. was formed in 1996 as a result of the merger between Penguin Books USA and the Putnam Berkley Group after Penguin acquired Putnam Berkley from MCA. The newly formed company was originally called Penguin Putnam Inc., but, in 2003, it changed its name to Penguin Group (USA) Inc. to reflect the parent Pearson PLC's grouping of all the Penguin companies worldwide under the supervisory umbrella of Pearson's own Penguin Group division.\n\nThe different Penguin companies use many imprints, many of which used to be independent publishers. Penguin Group (USA) Inc. also operates its own speaker's bureau that books speaking engagements for many of the publisher's authors. In 2011, the online writing and publishing community Book Country was launched as a subsidiary of Penguin Group USA.\n\nIn April 2012, the United States Department of Justice filed \"United States v. Apple Inc.\", naming Apple, Penguin, and four other major publishers as defendants. The suit alleged that they conspired to fix prices for e-books and weaken Amazon.com's position in the market in violation of antitrust law. In December 2013, a federal judge approved a settlement of the antitrust claims, in which Penguin and the other publishers paid into a fund that provided credits to customers who had overpaid for books due to the price-fixing.\n\nIn October 2012, Pearson entered into talks with rival conglomerate Bertelsmann, over the possibility of combining their respective publishing companies, Penguin Group and Random House. The houses were considered two of the Big-Six publishing companies, prior to the merger, which became the Big-Five publishing houses upon completion of the combination. The European Union approved of the Penguin Random House merger on 5 April 2013; Pearson controls 47% of the publisher.\n\nPenguin Group imprints include the following:\n"}
{"id": "38409570", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38409570", "title": "Principles of Labor Legislation", "text": "Principles of Labor Legislation\n\nPrinciples of Labor Legislation (1916) was a foundational US labor law text, written in the United States by John R. Commons and John Bertram Andrews.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "6031238", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6031238", "title": "Project Neptune (water distribution system)", "text": "Project Neptune (water distribution system)\n\nProject Neptune is a water distribution project in the United Kingdom with the goal of establishing an optimized and more sustainable system for water distribution. The project was officially announced in April 2007, and received a budget of £2.7 million.\n\nIn the UK, water service providers (WSPs) are legally obligated to provide drinking water to all of their customers. The difficulty in optimizing this service involves the minimum water pressure and flow standards, as well as the strict regulations regarding water quality. The innovative technologies required to support the goal of Project Neptune are either partially evolved with no proven reliability or do not exist yet. The Centre for Sustainable Development at the University of Cambridge is heading the work on integrating artificial intelligence and mathematical simulation technologies to create an efficient online reporting and analyzing system for monitoring performance of the water distribution system.\n\nIn order to address the technological deficiencies of the project, research priority areas (RPA) have been identified by the American Society of Civil Engineers. The RPA three key concentrations include “data and knowledge management, pressure management (including energy management), and the associated complex decision support systems on which to base interventions.\" The specific objectives of the RPA are focused on developing communication networks, sustainable technologies, real time information feedback system, and optimal operations. The function of the communication network is to evaluate the performance and reliability of already implemented hardware and sensors for collecting faraway data. In order to achieve a reduction in energy usage, sustainable technologies that develop innovative energy harvesting technology and reduce the necessity for constant battery replacement are necessary for the project. Real time information relates to acquiring knowledge related to performance of the water distribution system. Optimal operations can be achieved through improvement in understanding and analyzing relevant data, which includes online models of hydraulics. The first round of RPA work is contributing to the initiative headed by Yorkshire Water Services to install the first prototypes of Ground Penetrating Radar Systems (GPRS). The Yorkshire initiative aims to install around 490 prototypes that are connected to sensors that collect pressure and flow data on a half hourly basis.\n\nProject Neptune’s academic and industrial partners aim to address the tasks of developing: energy saving options, online simulation model to provide an overlook of a full day’s water distribution patterns, system to mitigate and manage leakage, automate system adjustments, power harvesting methods, and optimized system for reacting to incidents.\n\nStaff involved in the system controls department of the project have the burden of handling large amounts of data received. The Decision Support System (DSS) was developed in order to alleviate this burden and aid the staff in decision making, prioritizing urgent incidents, and identifying faulty alarms. The DSS functions to combine these strategy and decision making outputs into one single and comprehensive presentation of data for the operator.\n\nThe project today receives funding from the UK’s Engineering and Physical Sciences Research Council (EPSRC) in order to further advance understanding and contribute knowledge about optimal and efficient water supply systems. Industrial funding is also provided for the project, the main contributors include the United Utilities and Yorkshire Water Services. University of Exeter in the UK carries out research for the project in collaboration with seven other research universities located in the UK, including University of Cambridge, the University of Sheffield, Imperial College London, De Montfort University, Lancaster University, University of Leicester, and University of Sheffield.\n\n"}
{"id": "2337942", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2337942", "title": "Section 35 of the Constitution Act, 1982", "text": "Section 35 of the Constitution Act, 1982\n\nSection 35 of the \"Constitution Act, 1982\" provides constitutional protection to the indigenous and treaty rights of indigenous peoples in Canada. The section, while within the Constitution of Canada, falls outside the \"Canadian Charter of Rights and Freedoms\". The section does not define the term \"aboriginal rights\" or provide a closed list; some examples of the rights that section 35 has been found to protect are fishing, logging, hunting, the right to land (cf. aboriginal title) and the right to enforcement of treaties. There remains a debate over whether the right to indigenous self-government is included within section 35. the Supreme Court of Canada has made no ruling on the matter. However, since 1995 the Government of Canada has had a policy recognizing the inherent right of self-government under section 35.\n\nThe provision provides that:\n\nIn 1982, when section 35 was entrenched into the Canadian Constitution, Delbert Riley the National Leader of the National Indian Brotherhood or later known as the \"AFN\" or \"Assembly of First Nations\", was quoted as saying \"Aboriginal Rights are what First Nations define them as. Their rights are what they were before European contact, and remain the same after European contact\". \n\nAboriginal rights refer to the activities, practice, and traditions of the Aboriginal peoples in Canada that are integral to the distinctive culture of Aboriginal peoples.\n\nThe word \"existing\" in section 35(1) has created the need for the Supreme Court to define what Aboriginal rights \"exist\". The Supreme Court ruled in \"R. v. Sparrow\" that, before 1982 (when section 35 came into effect), Aboriginal rights existed by virtue of the common law. Common law could be changed by legislation. Therefore, before 1982, the federal Parliament could extinguish Aboriginal rights, whereas now it can no longer extinguish any rights that still existed in 1982. Extinguishment of rights can only occur through an act that showed \"clear and plain intention\" on the government to deny those rights.\n\nIn \"Sparrow\", the Court also held the words \"recognized and affirmed\" incorporate the government's fiduciary duty to the Aboriginal peoples which requires them to exercise restraint when applying their powers in interference with Aboriginal rights. This further suggests that Aboriginal rights are not absolute and can be encroached upon given sufficient reason. After the \"Sparrow\" case, provincial legislation can only limit Aboriginal rights if it has given them appropriate priority.\n\nHowever, in the \"Sparrow\" case, the court did not have to address what was in fact an Aboriginal right for the purposes of s.35(1) since neither side disputed that the Musqueam had an Aboriginal right to fish for food. This was developed in \"R. v. Van der Peet\" where Chief Justice Lamer's majority decided that to be considered an Aboriginal right, a practice must have been integral to the distinctive nature of the culture prior to contact by Europeans.\n\nAs part of the historical relationship between them, any time the government is interacting with Aboriginal people the honour of the crown is said to be at stake. This principle of the \"honour of the crown\" imposes a number of duties upon the government.\n\nFlowing from the honour principle is a duty on the Crown to consult with Aboriginals in any industry activities. This duty was first described in the decisions of \"Haida Nation v. British Columbia (Minister of Forests)\" and \"Taku River Tlingit First Nation v. British Columbia\". The duty is engaged when \"the Province has knowledge, real or constructive, of the potential existence of Aboriginal right or title and contemplates conduct that might adversely affect them.\" The determination of such a duty depends both on the strength of the right that is being encroached upon as well as the negative impact and gravity of the government's conduct.\n\nThe section in the \"Charter\" that most directly relates to Aboriginal people is section 25. It merely states that \"Charter\" rights do not diminish Aboriginal rights; it is therefore not as important as section 35. The \"Charter\" forms Part I of the \"Constitution Act, 1982\" while section 35 is placed in Part II. This placement in the Constitution is considered significant. Professor Kent McNeil has written it could be seen as meaning section 35 allows for Aboriginal self-government, while the \"Charter\" is concerned with more individual rights. Professor Peter Hogg has argued there are negative and positive effects of excluding section 35 from the \"Charter\". Section 35 cannot be limited by section 1 or the notwithstanding clause. However, section 24 of the \"Charter\", which allows remedies for rights violations, is not available to section 35. Moreover, in \"R. v. Sparrow\" the Court developed a test to limit section 35 that Hogg has compared to the section 1 Oakes test.\n\nDespite this, professors Ted Morton and Rainer Knopff, in their criticisms of \"Charter\" case law and growing judicial discretion, treat section 35 as if it were part of the \"Charter\". They write that \"Section 35 is technically 'outside' of the Charter, but as a declaration of the special rights of Canada's most salient racial minority- rights that are enforceable in the courts- it has become an important part of the Charter revolution.\"\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4808233", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4808233", "title": "Servitude in civil law", "text": "Servitude in civil law\n\nA servitude is a qualified beneficial interest severed or fragmented from the ownership of an inferior property (\"servient estate\") and attached to a superior property (\"dominant estate\") \"or\" to some person (\"personal beneficiary\") other than the owner. At civil law, ownership (\"dominium\") (e.g. of land) is the only full real right whereas a servitude is a subordinate real right on par with wayleaves, real burdens (i.e. real covenants), security interests, and reservations. There are two types: \"predial\", attaching to property, and \"personal\", attaching to a person.\n\nA servitude cannot impose the performance of a positive duty on the owner of the burdened property but only duties either to refrain from exercising certain rights to which an owner could be otherwise entitled (\"negative servitude\") or to suffer certain things to be done to his property which an owner otherwise could be entitled to forbid or resist (\"positive servitude\"). Servitudes arise from express agreement, adverse possession, or as a matter of law.\n\nA predial (Brit. \"praedial\") servitude is an incorporeal hereditament burdening a servient estate (\"praedium serviens\") for the benefit of a dominant estate (\"praedium dominans\") to protect the holder in his own rights to the use or enjoyment of property. The two estates must belong to different bare title holders (\"dominus nudea proprietatis\", i.e. fee simple owners). This type of servitude may only burden immovable property (i.e. real property). The right is for the benefit of the dominant estate rather than the person and remains in effect upon its transfer, that is, it runs with the land and extends to any owner, whether the original or successor-in-title. Predial servitudes are limited to:\n\nPredial servitudes are generally characterized as: \n\nWhen a servient estate exists but the servient owner cannot be determined, and where the law allows, a dominant owner may be granted a servitude right \"a non domino\", i.e. absent the servient owner. In this event, the dominant owner will generally not be indemnified by the land registry for the statutory prescriptive period.\n\nOriginally, enclave was a term of property law, across much of Europe, particularly seen early in 15th century France derived from earlier ecclesiastical senses, for the situation of a main estate of land or a parcel of land surrounded by land owned by a different owner(s), and that could not be reached for its exploitation in a practical and sufficient manner without crossing the surrounding land. In law, this created a \"servitude\" of passage for the benefit of the owner of the surrounded land.\n\nA personal servitude is an interest that benefits its holder personally or financially with or without the use or enjoyment of property. In this case, there is no dominant estate, only a personal beneficiary, and therefore the servitude is in principle not assignable or inheritable, unless transferability is part of the original grant or results from economic purposes that the servitude is designed to serve. Instead, the servitude moves with a particular person, not with a specific property, and includes:\n\nNapoleonic civil-law countries do not generally recognize personal servitudes. The mixed jurisdictions of Quebec and Louisiana are exceptions due to influence from common law, but under these systems personal servitudes are limited to easements in gross.\n\nUnder Quebec law, a servitude is a real right excluding third parties and which is created \"sui generis\", by agreement (\"ex contractu\"), or by operation of law (\"ex lege\"). Quebec Civil Code, article 1177 provides:\n\nQuebec law distinguishes between predial and personal servitudes.\n\n"}
{"id": "36687031", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36687031", "title": "Sevcik v. Sandoval", "text": "Sevcik v. Sandoval\n\nSevcik v. Sandoval is the lead case that successfully challenged Nevada's denial of same-sex marriage as mandated by that state's constitution and statutory law. The plaintiffs' complaint was initially filed in the U.S. District Court for the District of Nevada on April 10, 2012, on behalf of several couples denied marriage licenses. These couples challenged the denial on the basis of the U.S. Constitution's Fourteenth Amendment guarantee of equal protection.\n\nOn November 26, 2012, Chief District Judge Robert Jones ruled against the plaintiff same-sex couples, granting in part a motion to dismiss the complaint against the Nevada government officials named in it. The plaintiffs appealed to the Ninth Circuit Court of Appeals on December 3, 2012.\n\nA three-judge panel of the Ninth Circuit heard oral arguments in \"Sevcik\" and two related cases, \"Jackson v. Abercrombie\" and \"Latta v. Otter\", on September 8, 2014. On October 7, the panel reversed the lower court's ruling in \"Sevcik\", remanding the case back to district court with direction to enter a judgment in favor of the plaintiffs. This effectively legalized same-sex marriage in Nevada. After at least one judge on the Court of Appeals asked for a vote on the defendants' petition to have the case reheard by a larger, 11-judge panel, a majority of judges on the Ninth Circuit did not agree; thus making the ruling final on January 9, 2015.\n\nThe Constitution of Nevada was amended in 2002 to incorporate Article 1, Section 21, which reads: \"Only a marriage between a male and female person shall be recognized and given effect in this state,\" restricting marriage to different-sex couples. Voters first approved a ballot question endorsing this amendment to that effect on November 7, 2000, with 70% of the vote. Its principal sponsor was the Coalition to Protect Marriage, a local organization. Because Nevada requires a constitutional amendment be approved by the voters twice, Nevada voters considered the same ballot question on November 5, 2002, and approved it by a margin of 67%–33%.\n\nOn April 10, 2012, Lambda Legal, an LGBT rights advocacy organization, filed suit in the U.S. District Court for the District of Nevada on behalf of eight same-sex couples. Four of the couples had been denied marriage licenses by county clerks in Nevada. The other four had married in other jurisdictions (California and Canada) and wanted Nevada to recognize their relationships as marriages. The suit named as defendants Gov. Brian Sandoval and three county clerks. Lambda Attorney Tara Borelli explained the plaintiffs' argument: \"[W]e are relying on the Nevada domestic partnership law to help illustrate how irrational the unequal treatment of same-sex couples is, because there are a number of rationales they have articulated for this kind of discrimination that really are not credible in Nevada. For example, it is often argued in these cases that there is an interest relating to children and parenting. But in Nevada, separate and apart from the constitutional amendment, the state treats same-sex couple equally as parents in other respects. And so that can't be what the marriage amendment is about, because it has no effect on parenting.\" The plaintiffs argued that Nevada's contrast of marriage and domestic partnership, which it called a \"second-class status\", distinguished their case from Minnesota's lack of any provision for same-sex couples in 1972, when the Supreme Court in \"Baker v. Nelson\" refused to hear a challenge to Minnesota's restrictive marriage definition \"for want of a substantial federal question.\"\n\nAs part of their equal protection claim, the plaintiffs argued that the court should evaluate distinctions based on sexual orientation using the heightened scrutiny standard. They did not assert a fundamental right to marry nor a due process claim, but focused on the equal protection claim and Nevada's disparate treatment of same-sex couples, being \"so convinced that our equal protection claim is correct that we wanted to keep the focus of the case there... And courts often like to decide questions no more broadly than they need to, to resolve a case.\n\nA Nevada reporter noted that both Republican Gov. Sandoval, the principal defendant in the suit, and Democratic Attorney General Catherine Cortez Masto, who was representing him, tended to avoid public controversy and \"both ... refused to fully engage in the political debate. They're framing their roles as technocrats doing an administrative job rather than politicians or ideologues wading into an emotional issue.\"\n\nJudge Robert Jones, Chief Judge of the U.S. District Court of Nevada, held an initial hearing on August 10, 2012. The parties had agreed in advance on how they wanted the court to handle motions in the case. The plaintiffs agreed not to oppose the request by the Coalition for the Protection of Marriage, the original backers of the constitutional amendment and now based in Boise, Idaho, to intervene as a defendant. The defendants agreed that the court should postpone consideration of its arguments for summary dismissal until the case was fully briefed. Both sides asked the court to allow them to present expert testimony. Jones did not rule out expert testimony but expressed strong reservations, that it would require him to act \"as a legislature\". He said: \"This area you're talking about ... is so broad it's across the entire United States. You're asking them to summarize thousands of incidences.\" Noting that several related cases were nearing possible consideration by the Supreme Court, he agreed the case should be expedited: \"It makes sense to get this decided and off with the circus train.\" He thought \"Sevcik\" would make a good complement to the Ninth Circuit's decision in \"Perry v. Brown\".\n\nJones scheduled oral argument for November 26 on all issues in the case, but on September 19 he canceled the oral argument and announced he would rule on the basis of the briefs alone.\n\nOn November 29, Jones ruled against the plaintiffs. He held that \"the present challenge is in the main a garden-variety equal protection challenge precluded by \"Baker\"... The equal protection claim is the same in this case as it was in \"Baker\", i.e., whether the Equal Protection Clause prevents a state from refusing to permit same-sex marriages.\"\n\nJones also analyzed the plaintiffs' other arguments \"so that the Court of Appeals need not remand for further proceedings should it rule that \"Baker\" does not control...\" He identified the discrimination Nevada makes between marriages the state does and does not recognize as a distinction based not on gender, which would require him to use intermediate scrutiny, but on sexual orientation, stating that the state maintains \"heterosexual superiority ... by relegating (mainly) homosexual legal unions to a lesser status\".\n\nHe found that only the rational basis standard applies to distinctions based on sexual orientation, relying on \"High Tech Gays v. Defense Industrial Security Clearance Office\" (1990). He explained his agreement with that case's determination that \"homosexuals are not a suspect or quasi-suspect class\" requiring a higher standard of review because \"where no lingering effects of past discrimination are inherited, it is contemporary disadvantages that matter for the purpose of assessing disabilities due to discrimination. Any such disabilities with respect to homosexuals have been largely erased since 1990.\" He also argued that homosexuals have gained significant political power, citing the rarity of anti-homosexual messages in the national media and attributing the president's acceptance of same-sex marriage to \"the homosexual-rights lobby\". He disputed the Second Circuit's finding in \"Windsor v. United States\" (2012) that homosexuals are a politically powerless class: \"The question of 'powerlessness' under an equal protection analysis requires that the group's chances of democratic success be virtually hopeless, not simply that its path to success is difficult or challenging because of democratic forces.\" He states that no action should be taken on unclear Constitutional rules, such as \"equal protection of the laws\", which is a vague clause of the Constitution whose enforcement is \"a usurpation of democratic governance via judicial whim—a judicial practice much in vogue today\". Having determined that there is no clear Constitutional prohibition, he cited a concurring opinion in \"Frontiero v. Richardson\" that the Supreme Court should not decide sensitive issues at the very time they are under consideration.\n\nFinally, applying rational basis review, Jones found that \"[t]he protection of the traditional institution of marriage ... is a legitimate state interest\" and quoted \"Lawrence v. Texas\", stating that the prevention of \"abuse of an institution the law protects\" is a valid state interest. He found that the state may rely on speculation alone for its rational basis, citing \"Heller v. Doe\". If marriage is extended to same-sex couples, he wrote, \"it is conceivable that a meaningful percentage of heterosexual persons would cease to value the civil institution as highly as they previously had ... leading to an increased percentage of out-of-wedlock children, single-parent families, ... or other unforeseen consequences.\" He stated that Nevada has not decreased same-sex couples' rights (having no right to marry to begin with) and that their exclusion from marriage but not from a separate-but-parallel institution can only be seen as \"benevolence\".\n\nHe also addressed issues not raised by the plaintiffs. Plaintiffs had referenced \"Romer v. Evans\" (1996) only to note that the Supreme Court in that case had found it unnecessary to consider more than rational basis review. Jones discussed \"Romer\" at length to show how it did not apply to Nevada's marriage restriction, since \"Romer\" addressed, he wrote, \"an extreme case concerning a novel and ambitious type of law ... prevalent only under totalitarian regimes.\" Nevada's definition of marriage by contrast was \"not based purely upon anti-homosexual animus, as the constitutional provision in \"Romer\" was.\"\n\nAttorneys for the plaintiffs filed an appeal on December 3, 2012 with the Ninth Circuit Court of Appeals. The Court originally planned to hear the case on a parallel track with a similar Hawaii same-sex marriage case, \"Jackson v. Abercrombie\", until Hawaii's legalization of same-sex marriage as of December 2, 2013, mooted that case. The Court placed the case on hold pending the Supreme Court rulings in \"Hollingsworth v. Perry\" and \"United States v. Windsor\" on June 26, 2013. The Coalition for the Protection of Marriage on December 5, 2012, filed a petition for certiorari before judgment with the Supreme Court, asking that court to take up the case without waiting for action by the Court of Appeals. The Supreme Court denied that petition on June 27, 2013. On October 18, 2013, Lambda Legal filed its opening brief. On January 21, 2014, the state of Nevada submitted its reply brief. On January 24, Nevada Attorney General Catherine Cortez Masto announced she was reviewing the state's brief because the Ninth Circuit's decision in \"SmithKline Beecham Corporation v. Abbott Laboratories\" on January 21 established that laws that make a distinction based on sexual orientation are subject to \"heightened scrutiny\", making the arguments that state had made based on the less demanding \"rational basis\" standard \"likely no longer tenable in the Ninth Circuit.\" On February 10, Masto withdrew the state's brief defending Nevada's ban on same-sex marriage. Governor Sandoval agreed: \"It has become clear that this case is no longer defensible in court\". On February 12, 2014, the Ninth Circuit issued an order vacating the previous order scheduling the \"Sevcik\" and \"Jackson\" cases together.\n\nThe Ninth Circuit heard oral argument on September 8 before Judges Stephen Reinhardt, Ronald M. Gould, and Marsha S. Berzon in \"Sevcik\", \"Jackson\", and a third case. It overturned the district court's ruling on October 7, finding Nevada's denial of marriage rights to same-sex couples unconstitutional.\n\nOn October 7, 2014, the Ninth Circuit Court of Appeals reversed the decision of the federal district court in Nevada and remanded it back to the district court, ordering it to immediately issue an injunction to bar enforcement of the Nevada same-sex marriage ban amendment. It immediately made its holdings final and issued its mandate. On October 8, U.S. Supreme Court Justice Anthony Kennedy, apparently by mistake, ordered the Ninth Circuit's mandate temporarily stayed as part of his response to a request from Idaho officials in a related case. He amended his order to exempt this case from that stay. The same day, the Coalition for the Protection of Marriage asked the U.S. Supreme Court to suspend implementation of its ruling, referencing the arguments made by Idaho state officials in \"Sevcik\". It withdrew that request the next day and then renewed it on October 13.\n\nOn remand, the plaintiffs submitted a motion asking the district court for an injunction preventing the state from enforcing its same-sex marriage ban and providing the court with its suggested language. Judge Jones recused himself and the case was reassigned to Judge James Mahan. On October 9, Judge Mahan issued the injunction and same-sex couples began obtaining marriage licenses.\n\nThe Coalition to Protect Marriage asked the Ninth Circuit to rehear the case \"en banc\". Among other arguments, it presented a statistical analysis that called into question the randomness of the Circuit's method of assigning judges to cases. Attorneys for the same-sex couples, while contending that the method of judge selection could not be grounds for rehearing the case, disputed the Coalition's statistical methodology. After at least one circuit judge called for a vote on the petition for rehearing \"Sevcik\" (along with \"Latta v. Otter\") \"en banc\", a majority of active duty judges—as required by Ninth Circuit rules—would not agree to the petition; therefore such petition was denied as of January 9, 2015. Circuit Judge O’Scannlain, joined by fellow judges Rawlinson and Bea, filed a written dissent of the denial.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "49029562", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49029562", "title": "Singapore International Arbitration Centre", "text": "Singapore International Arbitration Centre\n\nSingapore International Arbitration Centre (SIAC) is a not-for-profit arbitration organisation based in Singapore, which administers arbitrations under its own rules of arbitration and the UNCITRAL Arbitration Rules. It was established in 1991 and is located at Maxwell Chambers, formerly the Customs House.\nSIAC arbitration awards have been enforced in many jurisdictions including Australia, China, Hong Kong SAR, India, Indonesia, Jordan, Thailand, UK, USA and Vietnam, amongst other New York Convention signatories. SIAC is a global arbitral institution providing case management services to parties from all over the world.\n\nSIAC was established in 1991 as an independent, not-for-profit organisation in Singapore.\n\nThe SIAC Rules (6th Edition, 1 August 2016) (\"SIAC Rules 2016\") are the primary rules of arbitration at the SIAC and have come into force on 1 August 2016. The SIAC Rules 2016 supersede the SIAC Rules (5th Edition, 1 April 2013), SIAC Rules (4th Edition, 1 July 2010) and SIAC Rules (3rd Edition, 1 July 2007).\n\nThe first edition of the Investment Arbitration Rules of the Singapore International Arbitration Centre (1st Edition, 1 January 2017) (SIAC IA Rules 2017) is a specialised set of rules to address the unique issues present in the conduct of international investment arbitration. The SIAC IA Rules 2017 are effective as from 1 January 2017.\n"}
{"id": "1878007", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1878007", "title": "Sources of international law", "text": "Sources of international law\n\nInternational law is the name of a body of rules which regulate the conduct of sovereign states in their relations with one another. Sources of international law include treaties, international customs, general principles of law as recognized by civilized nations, the decisions of national and lower courts, and scholarly writings. They are the materials and processes out of which the rules and principles regulating the international community are developed. They have been influenced by a range of political and legal theories.\n\nThe sources of international law can be found in Article 38.1 of the Statute.\n\nThis portfolio of sources was extracted from Article 38 of the original world court's constitutive statute.\n\nArticle 38 (1) of the Statute of the International Court of Justice is generally recognized as a definitive statement of the sources of international law. It requires the Court to apply, among other things, (a) international conventions, whether general or particular, establishing rules expressly recognized by the contesting states; (b) international custom, as evidence of a general practice accepted as law; (c) the general principles of law recognized by civilized nations; (d) subject to the provisions of Article 59, judicial decisions and the teachings of the most highly qualified publicists of the various nations, as subsidiary means for the determination of rules of law.\n\nDuring the 19th century, it was recognized by legal positivists that a sovereign could limit its authority to act by consenting to an agreement according to the principle \"pacta sunt servanda\". This consensual view of international law was reflected in the 1920 Statute of the Permanent Court of International Justice, and was later preserved in Article 38(1) of the 1946 Statute of the International Court of Justice.\n\nOn the question of preference between sources of international law, rules established by treaty will take preference if such an instrument exists. It is also argued however that international treaties and international custom are sources of international law of equal validity; this is that new custom may supersede older treaties and new treaties may override older custom. Also, \"jus cogens\" (peremptory norm) is a custom, not a treaty. Certainly, judicial decisions and juristic writings are regarded as auxiliary sources of international law, whereas it is unclear whether the general principles of law recognized by 'civilized nations' should be recognized as a principal or auxiliary source of international law. Nevertheless, treaty, custom, and general principles of law are generally recognized as primary sources of international law.\n\nTreaties and conventions are the persuasive source of international law and are considered \"hard law.\" Treaties can play the role of contracts between two or more parties, such as an extradition treaty or a defense pact. Treaties can also be legislation to regulate a particular aspect of international relations or form the constitutions of international organizations. Whether or not all treaties can be regarded as sources of law, they are sources of obligation for the parties to them. Article 38(1)(a) of the ICJ, which uses the term \"international conventions\", concentrates upon treaties as a source of contractual obligation but also acknowledges the possibility of a state expressly accepting the obligations of a treaty to which it is not formally a party.\n\nFor a treaty-based rule to be a source of law, rather than simply a source of obligation, it must either be capable of affecting non-parties or have consequences for parties more extensive than those specifically imposed by the treaty itself.\n\nThus, the procedures or methods by treaties become legally binding are formal source of law which is a process by a legal rule comes into existence: it is law creating.\n\nSome treaties are the result of codifying existing customary law, such as laws governing the global commons, and \"jus ad bellum\". While the purpose is to establish a code of general application, its effectiveness depends upon the number of states that ratify or accede to the particular convention. Relatively few such instruments have a sufficient number of parties to be regarded as international law in their own right. The most obvious example is the 1949 Geneva Conventions for the Protection of War Victims.\n\nMost multi-lateral treaties fall short of achieving such a near universal degree of formal acceptance and are dependent upon their provisions being regarded as representing customary international law and, by this indirect route, as binding upon non-parties. This outcome is possible in a number of ways:\n\n\nPursuant to Chapter XVI, Article 103 of the United Nations Charter, the obligations under the United Nations Charter overrides the terms of any other treaty. Meanwhile, its Preamble affirms establishment of the obligations out of treaties and source of international law.\n\nArticle 38(1)(b) of the ICJ Statute refers to \"international custom\" as a source of international law, specifically emphasizing the two requirements of state practice plus acceptance of the practice as obligatory or \"opinio juries save necessitatis\" (usually abbreviated as \"opinion juries\").\n\nDerived from the consistent practice of (originally) Western states accompanied by opinion juries (the conviction of States that the consistent practice is required by a legal obligation), customary international law is differentiated from acts of comity (mutual recognition of government acts) by the presence of \"opinion juries\" (although in some instances, acts of comity have developed into customary international law, i.e. diplomatic immunity). Treaties have gradually displaced much customary international law. This development is similar to the replacement of customary or common law by codified law in municipal legal settings, but customary international law continues to play a significant role in international law.\n\nWhen examining state practice to determine relevant rules of international law, it is necessary to take into account every activity of the organs and officials of states that relate to that purpose. There has been continuing debate over where a distinction should be drawn as to the weight that should be attributed to what states do, rather than what they say represents the law. In its most extreme form, this would involve rejecting what states say as practice and relegating it to the status of evidence of \"opinion juries\". A more moderate version would evaluate what a state says by reference to the occasion on which the statement was made. It is only relatively powerful countries with extensive international contacts and interests that have regular opportunities of contributing by deed to the practice of international law. The principal means of contribution to state practice for the majority of states will be at meetings of international organizations, particularly the UN General Assembly, by voting and otherwise expressing their view on matters under consideration. Moreover, there are circumstances in which what states say may be the only evidence of their view as to what conduct is required in a particular situation.\n\nThe notion of practice establishing a customary rule implies that the practice is followed regularly, or that such state practice must be \"common, consistent and concordant\". Given the size of the international community, the practice does not have to encompass all states or be completely uniform. There has to be a sufficient degree of participation, especially on the part of states whose interests are likely to be most affected, and an absence of substantial dissent. There have been a number of occasions on which the ICJ has rejected claims that a customary rule existed because of a lack of consistency in the practice brought to its attention.\n\nWithin the context of a specific dispute, however, it is not necessary to establish the generality of practice. A rule may apply if a state has accepted the rule as applicable to it individually, or because the two states belong to a group of states between which the rule applies.\n\nA dissenting state is entitled to deny the opposability of a rule in question if it can demonstrate its persistent objection to that rule, either as a member of a regional group or by virtue of its membership of the international community. It is not easy for a single state to maintain its dissent. Also, rules of the \"jus cogens\" have a universal character and apply to all states, irrespective of their wishes.\n\nDemand for rules that are responsive to increasingly rapid changes has led to the suggestion that there can be, in appropriate circumstances, such a concept as \"instant custom\". Even within traditional doctrine, the ICJ has recognized that passage of a short period of time is not necessarily a bar to the formation of a new rule. Because of this, the question is sometimes raised as to whether the word \"custom\" is suitable to a process that could occur with great rapidity.\n\nIt may be argued that the practice of international organizations, most notably that of the United Nations, as it appears in the resolutions of the Security Council and the General Assembly, are an additional source of international law, even though it is not mentioned as such in Article 38(1) of the 1946 Statute of the International Court of Justice. Article 38(1) is closely based on the corresponding provision of the 1920 Statute of the Permanent Court of International Justice, thus predating the role that international organizations have come to play in the international plane. That is, the provision of Article 38(1) may be regarded as 'dated\", and this can most vividly be seen in the mention made of 'civilized nations', a mentioning that appears all the more quaint after the decolonization process that took place in the early 1960s and the participation of nearly all nations of the world in the United Nations.\n\nA wealth of state practice does not usually carry with it a presumption that \"opinio juris\" exists. “Not only must the acts concerned amount to a settled practice, but they must also be such, or be carried out in such a way, as to be evidence of a belief that this practice is rendered obligatory by the existence of a rule of law requiring it.”\n\nIn cases where practice (of which evidence is given) comprises abstentions from acting, consistency of conduct might not establish the existence of a rule of customary international law. The fact that no nuclear weapons have been used since 1945, for example, does not render their use illegal on the basis of a customary obligation because the necessary \"opinion juries\" was lacking.\n\nAlthough the ICJ has frequently referred to \"opinion juries\" as being an equal footing with state practice, the role of the psychological element in the creation of customary law is uncertain.\n\nA peremptory norm or \"jus cogens\" (Latin for \"compelling law\" or \"strong law\") is a principle of international law considered so fundamental that it overrides all other sources of international law, including even the Charter of the United Nations. The principle of \"jus cogens\" is enshrined in Article 53 of the Vienna Convention on the Law of Treaties:\n\nRules of \"jus cogens\" generally require or forbid the state to do particular acts or respect certain rights. However, some define criminal offenses which the state must enforce against individuals. Generally included on lists of such norms are prohibitions of such crimes and internationally wrongful acts as waging aggressive war, war crimes, crimes against humanity, piracy, genocide, apartheid, slavery and torture.\n\nThe evidence supporting the emergence of a rule of \"jus cogens\" will be essentially similar to that required to establish the creation of a new rule of customary international law. Indeed, \"jus cogens\" could be thought of as a special principle of custom with a superadded \"opinions juries\". The European Court of Human Rights has stressed the international public policy aspect of the \"jus cogens\".\n\nThe scope of general principles of law, to which Article 38(1) of the Statute of the ICJ refers, is unclear and controversial but may include such legal principles that are common to a large number of systems of municipal law. Given the limits of treaties or custom as sources of international law, Article 38(1) may be looked upon as a directive to the Court to fill any gap in the law and prevent a nonliquet by reference to the general principles.\n\nIn earlier stages of the development of international law, rules were frequently drawn from municipal law. In the 19th century, legal positivists rejected the idea that international law could come from any source that did not involve state will or consent but were prepared to allow for the application of general principles of law, provided that they had in some way been accepted by states as part of the legal order. Thus Article 38(1)(c), for example, speaks of general principles \"recognized\" by states. An area that demonstrates the adoption of municipal approaches is the law applied to the relationship between international officials and their employing organizations, although today the principles are regarded as established international law.\n\nThe significance of general principles has undoubtedly been lessened by the increased intensity of treaty and institutional relations between states. Nevertheless, the concepts of estoppel and equity have been employed in the adjudication of international disputes. For example, a state that has, by its conduct, encouraged another state to believe in the existence of a certain legal or factual situation, and to rely on that belief, may be estopped from asserting a contrary situation in its dealings. The principle of good faith was said by the ICJ to be \"[o]ne of the basic principles governing the creation and performance of legal obligations\". Similarly, there have been frequent references to equity. It is generally agreed that equity cannot be employed to subvert legal rules (that is, operate \"contra legem\"). This \"equity as law\" perception is reinforced by references to equitable principles in the text of the United Nations Convention on the Law of the Sea 1982, though this may be little more than an admission as to the existence, and legitimation, of the discretion of the adjudicator.\n\nHowever, the principles of estoppel and equity in the international context do not retain all the connotations they do under common law. The reference to the principles as \"general\" signify that, if rules were to be adapted from municipal law, they should be at a sufficient level of generality to encompass similar rules existing in many municipal systems. Principles of municipal law should be regarded as sources of inspiration rather than as sources of rules of direct application.\n\nAccording to Article 38(1)(d) of its Statute, the ICJ is also to apply \"judicial decisions and the teachings of the most highly qualified publicists of the various nations, as subsidiary means for the determination of rules of law\". It is difficult to tell what influence these materials have on the development of the law. Pleadings in cases before the ICJ are often replete with references to case law and to legal literature.\n\nThe decisions of international and municipal courts and the publications of academics can be referred to, not as a source of law as such, but as a means of recognizing the law established in other sources. In practice, the International Court of Justice does not refer to domestic decisions although it does invoke its previous case-law. \n\nThere is no rule of stare decisis in international law. The decision of the Court has no binding force except between the parties and in respect of that particular case. Nevertheless, often the Court would refer to its past decisions and advisory opinions to support its explanation of a present case.\n\nOften the International Court of Justice will consider General Assembly resolutions as indicative of customary international law.\n\nArticle 38(1)(d) of the \"International Court of Justice Statute\" states that the 'teachings of the most highly qualified publicists of the various nations' are also among the 'subsidiary means for the determination of the rules of law'. The scholarly works of prominent jurists are not sources of international law but are essential in developing the rules that are sourced in treaties, custom and the general principles of law. This is accepted practice in the interpretation of international law and was utilized by the United States Supreme Court in \"The Paquete Habana\" case (175 US (1900) 677 at 700-1).\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "48100129", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48100129", "title": "Statute book", "text": "Statute book\n\nThe Statute Book is \"the surviving body of enacted legislation published by authority\" in \"a number of publications\".\n\nIn England at the end of 1948, the Statute Book printed by authority consisted of the twenty-four volumes of \"The Statutes: Second Revised Edition\" and the thirty-three volumes of Public General Acts published annually since 1920, making in all fifty-seven volumes. \n\nIn \"A First Book of English Law\", Owen Hood Phillips said that there is no Statute Book. John Baker said that \"the statute book\" was no closer to being a historical entity than \"the\" register of writs was.\n\nIn autumn 1947, the Statute Law Committee was given terms of reference \"to consider the steps necessary to bring the Statute Book up to date by consolidation, revision, and otherwise\".\n"}
{"id": "28615045", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28615045", "title": "TPB AFK", "text": "TPB AFK\n\nTPB AFK: The Pirate Bay Away From Keyboard is a documentary film released on 8 February 2013, directed by Simon Klose, based on the lives of the three founders of The Pirate Bay: Peter Sunde, Fredrik Neij and Gottfrid Svartholm. Filming began in Summer 2008, and concluded on 25 February 2012.\n\nThe film's website was launched on 28 August 2010, along with a Kickstarter campaign to raise US$25,000 to hire an editor after the Court of Appeal trial. The campaign was fully funded within three days and raised $51,424 in total. In February 2011, the Swedish government's Arts Grants Committee \"Konstnärsnämnden\" granted the project an additional 200,000 SEK (≈ $30,000). The film was pitched at Sheffield Doc/Fest's 2009 MeetMarket.\n\nThe full film was released under a Creative Commons license (BY-NC-ND) onto The Pirate Bay and other BitTorrent sites. Also, a four-minute shorter version with certain copyright restricted content removed, under a different Creative Commons BY-NC-SA license, was released at the same time to allow editing. Additionally, a DVD version was also released.\n\nTPB AFK's premiered at the 63rd Berlin International Film Festival on 8 February 2013, opening the festival's documentary section, and was released online for worldwide free download at the same time on YouTube and on The Pirate Bay.\n\nOn 19 February 2013, the film was broadcast on BBC Four in the UK as part of the BBC's \"Storyville\" documentary series.\n\nPeter Sunde, one of the main characters in the film, wrote on his blog, that he has \"mixed feelings about the movie and the release of it\". While he likes the technical side, he has serious issues with some scenes and general attitude of the film. This includes too much focus put on the trial, too dark depiction of it and portraying himself beyond self recognition. Despite having such different views on the subject, he regards the director as a friend.\n\nOn May 2013, Hollywood studios such as Viacom, Paramount, Fox and Lionsgate started to censor Google Search links pointing to the documentary, an action criticized by the director of the film Simon Klose. On June, after the initial controversy, HBO and Lions Gate sent additional bogus DMCA takedown notices to Google requesting the removal of links related with the TPB AFK. In response, Simon Klose contacted Chilling Effects which recommended him to file a DMCA counter-notice where he explained that the purpose is \"to share the film as much as possible\". Two months later, the censored links were reinstated only after public complaints made by the film director.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "10401624", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10401624", "title": "Werner Grothmann", "text": "Werner Grothmann\n\nWerner Grothmann (23 August 1915 – 26 February 2002) was a mid-ranking commander in the Waffen-SS of Nazi Germany and \"aide-de-camp\" to \"Reichsführer-SS\" Heinrich Himmler from 1940 until Himmler's death in 1945.\n\nGrothmann was born in Frankfurt am Main in 1915. In his youth he studied economics and carved out a career as an accountant at a bank. In 1933 he joined the \"Schutzstaffel\" (SS) at 18 years old, and was assigned to the \"Junkerschule SS\". On 20 April 1936, he was commissioned an SS-\"Untersturmführer\" (second lieutenant) and thereafter promoted to the rank of SS-\"Obersturmführer\" (first lieutenant) on 11 September 1938. He was made the commander the \"Deutsches SS Standarten\" in Munich, Germany.\n\nAt the beginning of the Second World War, he had already reached the rank of SS-\"Hauptsturmführer\" (captain) and was given command of \"SS-Sturmbann Nº 13\", a unit of the \"SS Standarte Deutschland\". He was mobilized with his unit during the conquest of France and was wounded in combat in June 1940.\n\nAt the suggestion of Joachim Peiper, Grothmann was appointed second assistant to \"Reichsführer-SS\" Heinrich Himmler until July 1942, when he was promoted to \"aide-de-camp\" to the leader of the SS. As Himmler's aide, Grothmann accompanied him on all field visits. In 1943 he was promoted to SS-\"Sturmbannführer\" (major) and then to SS-\"Obersturmbannführer\" (lieutenant colonel).\n\nDuring the last few days of the war in Europe, Himmler, Grothmann and Heinz Macher traveled from Lübeck to Flensburg, where Himmler offered his services as second-in-command to the new interim government led by Karl Dönitz, successor to Adolf Hitler. Dönitz repeatedly rejected Himmler's overtures and initiated peace negotiations with the Allies. Himmler was formally dismissed from all his posts.\n\nUnwanted by his former colleagues and hunted by the Allies, Himmler attempted to go into hiding. Himmler had not made extensive preparations for this, but he had equipped himself with a forged paybook under the name of Sergeant Heinrich Hitzinger of the \"Geheime Feldpolizei\" (Secret Field Police), which was a mistake since members of this organization were sought after by the liberation forces. Grothmann and Macher were both dressed as army privates. Grothmann, Himmler, and Macher were stopped at a checkpoint, which had been set up by former Soviet POWs, on 21 May and detained. The three men were taken to an Allied barracks in Lüneburg on 23 May. During a routine interrogation, Himmler admitted who he was, and was then taken to the headquarters of the Second British Army. During an attempted medical examination, Himmler bit into a hidden cyanide pill and died. After Himmler's suicide, Grothmann and Macher were arrested.\n\nGrothmann was taken to a barracks at Lübeck, where he was extensively questioned. He denied any knowledge of Operation Reinhard. Then he was taken to an SS prison camp. Grothmann served as a prosecution witness against several SS officials between 1946 and 1948, but during the trial of Karl Wolff he denied having any knowledge of the Final Solution. \nAfter release from Allied internment, Grothmann was denazified, considered part of category III (Lesser Offenders), by a court in Freising in March 1949.\n\nGrothmann remade his life as a businessman and granted a few interviews in the 1970s in which he disparaged Himmler's character. Werner Grothmann died in 2002.\n\n"}
