{"id": "38530592", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38530592", "title": "A. T. Saunders", "text": "A. T. Saunders\n\nAlfred Thomas Saunders (4 September 1854 – 3 November 1940) was an accountant and amateur historian of the early days of South Australia, with a particular interest in the sea and River Murray. Working with his own remarkable collection of chronological but un-indexed notes, an incredible memory and a passion for facts clearly stated, he came to be regarded as South Australia's unofficial historian. By engaging in controversy, he attracted a wide following. On many occasions he challenged writings by famous writers and public figures, including Joseph Conrad, who became something of a friend.\n\nSaunders' grandparents, William and Ann Galway left the North of Ireland on the Adam Lodge in 1837 and arrived in Sydney on 13 July 1837. Ten years later they came to Port Adelaide in the \"Juno\", the first steamship to enter Port Adelaide from another State under its own steam. Both his mother and her sister married ship captains. His father, Captain Thomas Alfred Saunders (married Margaret Galway 23 June 1849) arrived in South Australia from Hobart in 1849, and in 1852 was appointed first harbormaster at Port Elliot, then a busy harbour, and while there, helped survey the treacherous Murray Mouth.\n\nSaunders was born at Queenstown, South Australia in the house his grandfather William Galway built in 1859, then the only two-storey house in the area, later owned by Frank Coleman.\n\nYoung Alfred, after only two years' schooling, began work in 1867 as an office boy. From late 1875 to 1876 he worked as a clerk for Coombe Brothers, storekeepers in the fledgling town of Port Pirie, so gained valuable first-hand knowledge of its early days. From 1895 to 1905 he was employed by the sharebroker Mr. H. L. Conran to keep his records.\n\nIn November 1886 he contributed his first article to a South Australian newspaper, his impressions of the effect the newly laid railway to Mount Gambler was having upon Beachport. He continued to write, and as the years went by the pursuit of South Australian history became a very serious hobby.\n\nHis greatest asset in this endeavour was his collection of clippings from every South Australian newspaper from 1837 to 1909, arranged chronologically, and relying on his memory to locate the required article.\nHe also had records of the arrival of every ship which had visited South Australia. Nearly every day he answered an enquiry relating to South Australian history, and frequently contacted authors and newspapers, not only in every Australian State, but also in England and America, with corrections on matters of fact.\n\nAround 1911 Saunders took to visiting his bedridden aunt, who regaled him with stories of her time in the Spice Islands, where she had met the famed naturalist Alfred Russel Wallace and the notorious Bully Hayes. The more he checked her dates and facts, the more he trusted her memory and decided to commit the Hayes story to print.\nHaving begun to write a history of Hayes, he found it essential to visit Singapore, Shanghai, and Hong Kong. Any search undertaken by him was not abandoned until all possible avenues of information had been exhausted. Clerks in the British Admiralty were often called upon to delve into the dusty past, to complete Mr. Saunders' record of some old time sailing ship.\n\nHe once wrote to Joseph Conrad, pointing out an error that the author had made, and after Conrad had written acknowledging the mistake, a correspondence sprang up between them. Conrad visited South Australia as mate of the Torrens in 1893. A passenger on the same ship was John Galsworthy. Saunders noticed the name John Galsworthy among the passenger list of The Torrens, and wrote to Conrad to ascertain if the Galsworthy mentioned was the author. Conrad replied that it was. Conrad visited South Australia a few years later in the \"Otago\". The visit was recalled in a letter by Conrad to Saunders:\n\nSaunders questioned the attitude of those such as Pastor Brauer who opined that South Australia in general and George Fife Angas in particular, owed a debt of gratitude to the 500-odd Germans who left their country to settle in South Australia around 1838. Angas had lost heavily in financing the unplanned third voyage; that of the \"Catharina\" under Captain Schacht Pastor Kavel's people from Posen. Kavel had been ungrudging in his gratitude to the English and Dutton in particular.\n\nOn 12 January 1918, The South Australian Register published a letter from Saunders which accused Government members Crawford Vaughan (Premier), Reginald Pole Blundell and Clarence Goode of complicity in shady land deals, notably the purchase at inflated prices from accomplices, of land intended for First AIF soldier-settlers. As a result of his enquiries, assisted by whistleblowers, and energetic publicising of his findings and opinions, a Royal Commission was held which found two officials (Chief Secretary Alfred William Styles, and Government Valuator Edward Britten Jones) guilty of misdemeanours, but failed to impeach Vaughan, Blundell and Goode, who issued Saunders with a writ for libel. Prominent citizens such as the Hon. D. M. Charleston, writing as a member of the Stock Exchange Club, contributed to a defence fund, but the writ was withdrawn\n\nSaunders had a very jaundiced view of the personality and achievements of Francis Cadell, comparing him unfavourably with Charles Sturt and William Randell and accusing him of \"childish vanity\" and called his pioneering paddle-steamer \"Lady Augusta\" (or \"Lady Agusta\" as he delighted in referring to the spelling by which she was registered) a \"two-funnelled monstrosity\". \"Cadell\", said Saunders, \"had plenty of political, financial, and Adelaide Government House pull . . . and Government money was poured into his pockets. His father, relatives, friends, and clique kept him well before the public and in the press. Lieutenant-Governor Young and Governor MacDonnell omitted from despatches that the Randells had the Mary Ann on the Murray months before Cadell had the Lady Augusta; yet Cadell failed, and whined that he had been ruined by competition . . . he did not stick to his Murray River business, but was running round seeking for notoriety and the limelight, and asking for concessions. Randell had not powerful moneyed friends, such as Cadell had; yet, undismayed by bad luck, Randell plugged on, stuck to the river, and succeeded. The Randells personally, and not by proxy, made a success of river navigation, and in so doing showed boldness, courage, and originality.\"\n\nSaunders may have been alone in his campaign against the memory of Cadell. Those who knew the man, such as George Johnston and Thomas Goode and others such as John Lewis M.L.C. and W. J. Magarey had a much better opinion of him.\n\nSaunders somehow acquired the board minutes of Cadell's River Murray Steam Navigation Company, and donated it to the Public Library of South Australia to put on the public record the \"brilliant genius (of) Capt. Francis Cadell\".\n\nSaunders had a good brain but a minimum of schooling, so found writing irksome, and he had no knowledge of record-keeping standards. This led to him developing his own systems, which required a minimum of writing and were highly effective, but incomprehensible to anyone else. He had a perfect memory for names, places and dates, but was incapable of memorising abstractions such as the conjugation of a simple French verb or the batting averages of a cricket player.\n\nSaunders had a very jaundiced view of the Lutheran Church and the German people (at least those who came to South Australia and settled in places such as Hahndorf and Klemzig, South Australia), finding them boorish and insular. Such sentiments found ready acceptance during World War I.\n\n\n\nOn 13 September 1877 he married Helen Gordon Wald (ca.1855 – 7 December 1941), at one time a near neighbour in Queenstown. Among their children were:\n"}
{"id": "34138002", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34138002", "title": "Abdul Jabbar Junejo", "text": "Abdul Jabbar Junejo\n\nDr. Abdul Jabbar Junejo (26 November 1935 – 12 July 2011) was a prolific Sindhi writer, poet, novelist, story-writer, critic, linguist, historian and musicologist, born on 26 November 1935 at Pir Fateh Shah Village, District Badin, Sindh, Pakistan. He did his MA in Sindhi in 1962 with distinguished marks and was awarded with the gold medal. He earned his Ph.D on the topic: “The Influence of Persian Poetry on Sindhi Poetry”. He had good deal of language competence in English, Chinese and Persian.\n\nHe started his career as junior lecturer in 1960; later on he joined the Department of Sindhi, University of Sindh, Jamshoro as a lecturer in Sindhi in 1962. He served as the chairperson of the Department of Sindhi and also meritoriously climbed to the level of the Dean, faculty of Art, University of Sindh, Jamshoro. He also served as a director of Laar Museum 2004 to 2007.\n\nHe wrote the Brief History of Sindhi Literature in three volumes. He produced monumental critical work on the poetry of Shah Abdul Latif. He was great connoisseur on Sindhi classic music. There are 65 books in Sindhi language, 10 books in Urdu language and about 200 research articles on various topic to his credit.\n\nOn December 18, 2011 Ms. Sussui Palejo, minister of Culture Department inaugurated Dr Abdul Jabbar Junejo Corner, in Zafar Kazim Art Gallery, in Sindh Museum, Hyderabad. Abdul Jabbar Junejo died of kidney failure on 12 July 2011.\n"}
{"id": "54614015", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54614015", "title": "Alain Besançon", "text": "Alain Besançon\n\nAlain Besançon (born 25 April 1932) is a French historian. He specialises in intellectual history and Russian politics. From 1965 to 1992 he was director of studies at the École des hautes études en sciences sociales in Paris. He was elected to the Académie des sciences morales et politiques of the Institut de France in 1996.\n\nHis book \"L'Image interdite, une histoire intellectuelle de l'iconoclasme\" (1994) was translated into English as \"The Forbidden Image: An Intellectual History of Iconoclasm\" in 2000 and published by the University of Chicago Press.\n\n"}
{"id": "24287130", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24287130", "title": "Alice Clark", "text": "Alice Clark\n\nAlice Clark (1 August 1874 – 11 May 1934) was a British feminist and historian.\n\nAlice was a daughter of William Stephens Clark (1839-1925) and Helen Priestman Bright (1840–1927). The Clark family were Quakers, of shoe-making fame - C. and J. Clark Ltd. Manufacturer of boots, shoes & sheepskin rugs.One of Alice's sisters, Dr Hilda Clark, was an influential physician and specialist in the treatment of tuberculosis.\n\nAlice Clark argued that in 16th century England, women were engaged in many aspects of industry and agriculture. The home was a central unit of production and women played a central role in running farms, and some trades and landed estates. Their useful economic roles gave them a sort of equality with their husbands. However, Clark argues, as capitalism expanded in the 17th century, there was more and more division of labour with the husband taking paid labour jobs outside the home, and the wife reduced to unpaid household work. Middle-class women were confined to an idle domestic existence, supervising servants; lower-class women were forced to take poorly paid jobs. Capitalism, therefore, had a negative effect on powerful women. \n\n\n"}
{"id": "55880887", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55880887", "title": "Alicia Haber", "text": "Alicia Haber\n\nAlicia Haber (born 21 October 1946) is a Uruguayan historian, art critic, curator, and teacher.\n\nA graduate of the , Alicia Haber took three Fulbright Scholarships in the United States, specializing in history and art criticism. She was the chief curator of the Department of Culture of the from 1988 to 2009. She was an art critic at the newspaper \"El País\" between 1982 and 2009. She has been director of the Virtual Museum of Arts (MUVA) of \"El País\" since its formation in 1996.\n\nShe has curated numerous exhibition projects for museums and cultural centers in her country and abroad. She was curator of the Uruguayan submission to the Biennial of Cuenca in 2001, and in 2005 was curator of Lacy Duarte's exhibition at the Venice Biennale. She is the author of numerous monographs and critical texts for publications, catalogs, and art books.\n\n"}
{"id": "22501124", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22501124", "title": "Annette Gordon-Reed", "text": "Annette Gordon-Reed\n\nAnnette Gordon-Reed (born November 19, 1958) is an American historian and law professor. She is currently the Charles Warren Professor of American Legal History at Harvard University, where she is also the Carol K. Pforzheimer Professor at the Radcliffe Institute for Advanced Study and a professor of history in the university's Faculty of Arts & Sciences. Gordon-Reed is noted for changing scholarship on Thomas Jefferson regarding his relationship with Sally Hemings and her children. She was awarded the Pulitzer Prize for History and the National Book Award for Nonfiction and 15 other prizes in 2009 for her work on the Hemings family of Monticello. In 2010, she received the National Humanities Medal and a MacArthur Fellowship also known as the MacArthur \"Genius Award.\" \n\nGordon-Reed was born in Livingston, Texas, to Bettye Jean Gordon and Alfred Gordon. She became interested in Thomas Jefferson as a student in elementary school. She graduated from Dartmouth College in 1981 and Harvard Law School in 1984, where she was a member of the \"Harvard Law Review\".\n\nGordon-Reed is married to Robert R. Reed, a justice of the Supreme Court of the State of New York, whom she met while at Harvard Law School. She lives on the Upper West Side of New York with her husband and two children, Gordon and Susan.\n\nGordon-Reed spent her early career as an associate at Cahill Gordon & Reindel, and as counsel to the New York City Board of Corrections. She speaks or moderates at numerous conferences across the country on history and law-related topics. She was previously \"Wallace Stevens Professor of Law\" at New York Law School (1992–2010) and \"Board of Governors Professor of History\" at Rutgers University, Newark (2007–2010). In 2010, she joined Harvard University with joint appointments in history and law, and as \"Carol K. Pforzheimer Professor\" at the Radcliffe Institute for Advanced Study. In 2012, she was appointed the Charles Warren Professor of American Legal History at HLS. In 2014, she was the Harold Vyvyan Harmsworth Visiting Professor at Queen's College, University of Oxford.\nHer first book sparked great interest from fellow scholars, as it investigated the long-standing historical controversy of whether Thomas Jefferson had a sexual relationship with his slave Sally Hemings and fathered children by her. Most academic historians had accepted Jefferson descendants' denials and assertion that Peter Carr (a nephew of Jefferson) was the father, which was adopted by the biographer James Parton and succeeding historians for more than 100 years. As some historians began to reinvestigate Jefferson in the late twentieth century, his defenders responded as if assertions of his paternity were intended to damage his historical reputation, despite the widespread acknowledgement by then of interracial liaisons in Jefferson's time. By the mid-1970s, Fawn M. Brodie wrote the first biography of Jefferson to seriously examine the evidence related to Sally Hemings; she thought the Hemings-Jefferson liaison was likely. Gordon-Reed \"drew on her legal training to apply context and reasonable interpretation to the sparse documentation\" and analyzed the historiography as well. The writer Christopher Hitchens in \"Slate\" described her analysis as \"brilliant.\"\n\nGordon-Reed identified a set of unexamined assumptions that had governed many Jefferson scholars' investigations. These assumptions were that white people tell the truth, black people lie, slave owners tell the truth, and slaves lie. Gordon-Reed cross-checked the versions of events provided by former Monticello slaves, such as Madison Hemings, who claimed Jefferson as his father, and Isaac Jefferson, who confirmed Thomas Jefferson's paternity of the Hemings children, against documented historical evidence to which they could not have had access. She similarly cross-checked oral traditions among Hemings' descendants with primary sources such as Jefferson's papers and agricultural records. She demonstrated errors made by historians, and noted facts which the white Jefferson descendants and historians had overlooked, which contradicted their assertions that Jefferson's Carr nephews had fathered the children. As the historian Winthrop Jordan had noted and was publicized by Brodie, Dumas Malone's documentation showed that Jefferson was at Monticello each time Hemings conceived and she never conceived when he was not there. Gordon-Reed noted that all of Sally Hemings' children were freed, as Madison said Jefferson had promised. Her analysis led her to conclude that Jefferson and Hemings did have an intimate sexual relationship, though she did not try to characterize it. Reprinted in 1999, her new edition of the book has a foreword incorporating the 1998 DNA study.\n\nThe DNA study in 1998 reported a Y-DNA match between the Jefferson male line and a male descendant of Eston Hemings; researchers noted that, added to the body of historical evidence, this strongly suggested Thomas Jefferson was the father of the children. In addition, it conclusively showed there was no match between the Hemings descendant and the descendants of the Carr line, so neither of the nephews could have been the father. The findings received national attention, with PBS devoting a lengthy program to the issues, and have stimulated new scholarship. Major groups re-assessed their evaluation of historical evidence related to this issue.\n\nIn 2000, the Thomas Jefferson Foundation, which operates Monticello, announced that its internal study had concluded that Jefferson was likely the father of Eston and all of Hemings' children. It has since changed its exhibits, programming, academic research and other materials to reflect this. In 2001 the National Genealogical Society published a special issue on the topic; its specialists demonstrated how their review of the weight of evidence led them to conclude that Thomas Jefferson was the father of Heming's children. The \"William and Mary Quarterly\" devoted an issue to the topic in 2001. Some historians disagree; the newly formed Thomas Jefferson Heritage Society commissioned an independent report and scholars associated with it have continued to argue with the consensus.\n\nThis memoir of Vernon Jordan, the civil rights activist, written with him, portrayed his life from childhood through the 1980s. It won the Best Nonfiction Book for 2001 from the Black Caucus of the American Library Association. In 2002 it won an Anisfield-Wolf Book Award and a Trailblazer Award from the Metropolitan Black Bar Association.\n\nIn 2008 Gordon-Reed published \"The Hemingses of Monticello\", the first volume of a planned two-volume history on the Hemings family and their descendants, bringing a slave family to life on their own terms. She traced the many descendants of Elizabeth Hemings and their families during the time that they lived at Monticello; she had 75 descendants there. It was widely praised for its groundbreaking treatment of an extended slave family. It won the Pulitzer Prize for History\n\nGordon-Reed's most recent book examines Johnson and his historical reputation. She notes that he did not favor integration of the freedmen into America's mainstream and caused the delay of their full emancipation. Although he was long considered a hero, his reputation became tainted after 1900, as white historians researched his actions or lack thereof regarding integration of African Americans. Gordon-Reed has noted that the abolitionist Frederick Douglass realized Johnson was no friend of African Americans.\n\nGordon-Reed argues in the book that much of the misery imposed on African Americans could have been avoided if they had been given portions of land to cultivate as their own. Without land, African Americans in the Deep South generally earned livings as sharecroppers, primarily (if not totally) under white land-owners. They had few economic resources or choices and, often illiterate, were forced to accept the owner's reckoning of accounts at the end of the year. They often had to buy supplies at his store, which became part of the reckoning. She likens their situation to that of immigrant workers in the New York garment industry (sweat shops) in the 1890s, and coal miners, who were captives of mining company stores until the UMWA was founded in 1890.\n\nGordon-Reed was the first African American to win the Pulitzer Prize for History, for her 2008 work on the Hemings family. She won 15 additional awards for the book.\n\nGordon-Reed has also received a Guggenheim Fellowship for \"Monticello Legacies in the New Age\", 2009; and a Cullman Center Fellowship from the New York Public Library for 2010-2011 to work on \"Monticello Legacies\". She was Columbia University’s Barbara A. Black Lecturer, 2001; and won a Bridging the Gap Award for fostering racial reconciliation, 2000. She holds honorary degrees, from Ramapo College in New Jersey and the College of William and Mary in May 2010.\n\nOn March 7, 2009, she was interviewed on the WBGO program \"Conversations with Allan Wolper\". She discussed the intimate relationship between Thomas Jefferson and Sally Hemmings, as well as issues that American black women face today.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "332411", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=332411", "title": "Arrested decay", "text": "Arrested decay\n\n\"Arrested decay\" is a term coined by the State of California, United States to explain how it would preserve its Bodie State Historic Park. A more common application of this concept is the preservation of war ruins as memorials.\n\nAt Bodie State Historic Park, the structures will be maintained, but only to the extent that they will not be allowed to fall over or otherwise deteriorate in a major way.\n\nAny building that was standing in 1962, when Bodie became a State Park, may be rebuilt or preserved as the photographs of 1962 showed them. By putting new roofs on the buildings, rebuilding foundations, and resealing glass that is in window frames, the State is able to keep buildings from naturally decaying.\n\nEastern State Penitentiary in Philadelphia, Pennsylvania uses a similar system, though it uses the term \"preserved ruin.\"\n\nThe authorities in Vukovar, Croatia decided to keep the old water tower in the city as it is found today and as it had become after the war — gnarled by artillery.\n\nSeveral buildings destroyed in the Second World War have been preserved in their ruined condition as memorials. These include part of the facade of the Anhalter Bahnhof and the belfry of the Kaiser Wilhelm Memorial Church.\n\nThe authorities in Sarajevo, Bosnia have also preserved the building of the daily newspaper Oslobođenje to this day the way it was shelled during the Bosnian War.\n\nIn 1996, the Hiroshima Peace Memorial was acknowledged as a Unesco World Heritage Site. Originally completed in 1905, the building was known at the time of the Hiroshima atomic bomb explosion on August 6, 1945 as the \"Hiroshima Prefectural Industrial Promotion Hall\". Although suffering considerable damage, it was the closest structure to the hypocenter of the explosion to withstand the blast without being leveled to the ground. It has been preserved in the condition it was in after the bombing to serve as a symbol of hope for world peace and nuclear disarmament.\n\nOradour-sur-Glane was a village in the Limousin région of France that was destroyed on 10 June 1944, when 642 of its inhabitants – men, women and children – were murdered by a German Waffen-SS company. Although a new village was built after World War II, away from the ruins of the former village, the old village – the site of the massacre – still stands as a memorial to the dead and as being representative of similar sites and events. Part of the memorial includes items recovered from the burned out buildings: watches stopped at the time their owners were burned alive; glasses – melted from the intense heat; and various personal items and money.\n"}
{"id": "366061", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=366061", "title": "Bojinka plot", "text": "Bojinka plot\n\nThe Bojinka plot (; ) was a large-scale, three-phase attack planned by terrorists Ramzi Yousef and Khalid Sheikh Mohammed for January 1995. They planned to assassinate Pope John Paul II, blow up 11 airliners in flight from Asia to the United States with the goal of killing approximately 4,000 passengers and shutting down air travel around the world, and crash a plane into the headquarters of the CIA in Fairfax County, Virginia.\n\nDespite careful planning, the Bojinka plot was disrupted after a chemical fire drew the attention of the Philippine National Police – Western Police District (PNP-WPD) on January 6–7, 1995. Yousef and Mohammed were unable to stage any of the three attacks. The only fatality resulted from a test bomb planted by Yousef on Philippine Airlines Flight 434 which killed one person and injured 10 others. They also planted two other bombs in a Filipino shopping mall and theater.\n\nThe plot is also known as Oplan Bojinka, Operation Bojinka, Project Bojinka, and Bojinga. FBI officials described Operation Bojinka as \"48 hours of terror\". Several news media outlets, including \"Time\" Asia, incorrectly stated that the word \"Bojinka\" means \"loud bang\" or \"explosion\" in the Serbo-Croatian language. \"Bojinka\" is similar to the Russian word \"боженька\" (\"bozhinka\", sometimes transcribed as \"божинька\"), which is the diminutive form of the Russian word God, \"бог\".\n\nFunding for the Bojinka Plot came from Osama bin Laden and Hambali, and from front organizations operated by Mohammed Jamal Khalifa, bin Laden's brother-in-law.\n\nWali Khan Amin Shah, an Afghan, was the financier of the plot. He funded the plot by laundering money through his girlfriend and other Manila women, several of whom were bar hostesses and one of whom was an employee at a KFC restaurant. They were bribed with gifts and holiday trips so that they would open bank accounts to stash funds.\n\nThe transfers were small, equivalent to about 12,000 to 24,000 Philippine pesos ($500 to $1,000 US), and would be handed over each night at a Wendy's or a karaoke bar. The funds went to \"Adam Sali\", an alias used by Ramzi Yousef. The money came through a Filipino bank account owned by Jordanian Omar Abu Omar, who worked at International Relations and Information Centre, an Islamic organization run by Mohammed Jamal Khalifa.\n\nA company called Konsojaya also provided financial assistance to the Manila cell by laundering money to it. Konsojaya was a front company that was started by the head of the group Jemaah Islamiyah, an Indonesian named Riduan Isamuddin, also known as Hambali. Wali Khan Amin Shah was on the board of directors of the company.\n\nAs soon as Yousef arrived in Manila along with other \"Arab Afghans\" who were making cells in Manila, he started to work on making bombs. Yousef had shown up in Singapore with Shah earlier in the fall of 1994. The two got their Philippine visas in Singapore.\n\nHe left Manila for several days, but was met by Islamist emissaries upon his return to Metro Manila. They asked him to attack United States President Bill Clinton, who was due to arrive in the Philippines on November 12, 1994 as part of a five-day tour of Asia. Yousef thought of several ways to kill the president, including placing nuclear bombs on Clinton's motorcade route, firing a Stinger missile at Air Force One or the presidential limousine, launching theater ballistic missiles at Manila and or killing him with phosgene, a chemical weapon. He abandoned the idea, as it would be too difficult to kill the President. However, he incorporated his plan to kill the Pope into the Bojinka plot.\n\nIn 1994, Yousef and Khalid Sheik Mohammed started testing airport security. Yousef booked a flight between Kai Tak International Airport in Hong Kong and Taiwan Taoyuan International Airport near Taipei. Mohammed booked a flight between Ninoy Aquino International Airport near Manila and Kimpo International Airport near Seoul. The two had already converted fourteen bottles of contact lens solution into bottles containing nitroglycerin, which was readily available in the Philippines. Yousef had taped a metal rod to the arch of his foot, which would serve as a detonator. The two wore jewelry and clothing with metal to confuse airport security. To support their claim that they were meeting women, they packed condoms in their bags.\n\nOn December 8, Yousef moved into the Doña Josefa Apartments under the alias \"Najy Awaita Haddad\" and purported himself to be a Moroccan. Edith Guerrera, the manager, laughed with the receptionist after the two men asked for new registration forms. \"Perhaps they have forgotten their names\", she said as the first ones were torn up. Yousef had accidentally put his \"real name\" on the first form. He did not want to get discovered too early.\n\nYousef had booked Room 603 in advance. He had made an Php 80,000 (Philippine peso) deposit, and added Php 40,000 more up front before taking the elevator to Room 603.\n\nA conspirator named Abdul Hakim Murad came to Manila with Yousef and stayed at the same apartment.\n\nThe apartments are located in the Malate district, 200 meters away from the embassy of the Holy See in the Philippines, and 500 meters down the street from Manila Police Station No. 9 on Quirino Avenue. One of the windows of Room 603 looks down on the path that the Papal motorcade was to take.\n\nPeople were suspicious of the men in Room 603. The men renting the apartment were very secretive. According to Guerrera, \"They gave me the impression that they were here to study\", said Mrs. Guerrera. \"They looked like students. They double locked the door when they were inside or out. They didn't ask the room boy to clear up the room.\" The men, who had chemical burns on their hands, were carrying boxes and never hired other people to carry them up. The boxes contained chemicals bought from suppliers in Manila and Quezon City in Metro Manila. Yousef would use these to make his bombs.\n\nMohammed purported himself to be a Saudi or Qatari plywood exporter named \"Abdul Majid.\" Yousef and Mohammed had already started planning Operation Bojinka.\n\nAccording to Abdul Hakim Murad, Yousef got an idea for crashing a plane into the CIA from Murad while at the apartments. According to Murad, Yousef replied, \"OK, we will think about it\", before heading off with Mohammed to Puerto Galera for scuba diving.\n\nYousef's first operational test of his bomb was inside a mall in Cebu City. The bomb detonated several hours after he put it in a generator room. It caused minor damage, but it proved to Yousef that his bomb was workable.\n\nOn December 1, Shah placed a bomb under a seat in the Greenbelt Theatre in Manila to test what would happen if a bomb exploded under an airline seat. The bomb went off, injuring several patrons.\n\nOn December 11, 1994, Yousef built another bomb, which had one tenth of the power that his final bombs were planned to have, in the lavatory of an aircraft. He left it inside the life jacket under his seat (26 K) and got off the plane when it arrived in Cebu. Yousef had boarded the flight under the assumed name of Arnaldo Forlani, using a false Italian passport. The aircraft was Philippine Airlines Flight 434 on a Manila to Narita route, stopping partway at Cebu. Yousef had set the timer for four hours after he got off the aircraft.\n\nThe bomb exploded while the aircraft was over Japan's Minamidaitō Island, part of Okinawa Prefecture. A Japanese businessman named Haruki Ikegami occupying the seat was killed and an additional 10 passengers were injured. The flight was carrying 273 passengers in total. The blast blew a hole in the floor and the cabin's rapid expansion severed several control cables in the ceiling, cutting off control of the plane's right aileron, as well as both the pilot and first officer's steering controls. Usually, 26K, the seat that Yousef chose to plant the bomb, would be positioned directly over the centre fuel tank, and the detonation of the bomb would have caused a crippling explosion, but on this particular airframe, a former Scandinavian Airlines aircraft, the seat was two rows forward from normal. The flight crew kept control of the Boeing 747-200 and brought it into an emergency landing at Okinawa's Naha Airport. Satisfied with the deadly results of the attack, Yousef then planned which flights to attack for \"Phase II\" of the plot.\n\nThe first plan was to assassinate Pope John Paul II when he visited the Philippines during the World Youth Day 1995 celebrations. On January 15, 1995, a suicide bomber would dress up as a priest, while John Paul II passed in his motorcade on his way to the San Carlos Seminary in Makati City. The assassin planned to get close to the Pope, and detonate the bomb. The planned assassination of the Pope was intended to divert attention from the next phase of the operation. About 20 men had been trained by Yousef to carry out this act prior to January 1995.\n\nThe details of Phase I were found in the evidence discovered in the investigation into Room 603 in the Doña Josefa.\n\nThe next plan would have involved at least five terrorists, including Yousef, Shah, Murad and two more unknown operatives. Beginning on January 21, 1995, and ending on January 22, 1995, they would have placed bombs on 11 United States-bound airliners which had stopovers scattered throughout East Asia and Southeast Asia. All of the flights had two legs. The bombs would be planted inside life jackets under seats on the first leg, and each bomber would then disembark. He would then board one or two more flights and repeat. After all of the bombers had planted bombs on all of the flights, each man would then catch flights to Lahore, Pakistan. The men never needed U.S. visas, as they only would have been on the planes for their first legs in Asia.\n\nUnited States airlines had been chosen instead of Asian airlines so as to maximize the shock toward Americans. The flights targeted were listed under operatives with codenames: \"Zyed\", \"Majbos\", \"Markoa\", \"Mirqas\" and \"Obaid\". Obaid, who was really Abdul Hakim Murad, was to hit United Flight 80, and then he was to go back to Singapore on another United flight which he would bomb.\n\nZyed, probably Ramzi Yousef, was to target Northwest Flight 30, a United Flight going from Taipei to Honolulu, and a United Flight going from Bangkok to Taipei to San Francisco.\n\nThe explosions were to be timed by the operatives before they disembarked from the plane. The aircraft would have exploded over the Pacific Ocean and the South China Sea almost simultaneously. If this plan worked, several thousand passengers would have perished, and air travel would likely have been shut down worldwide. The U.S. government estimated the prospective death toll to be about 4,000 if the plot had been executed. (For comparison, about 3,000 were killed during the September 11 attacks in the United States.)\n\nIf Phase II of the plot had been successful, it would have been, in terms of casualties, the most devastating terrorist attack in recent history.\n\nThe \"Mark II\" \"microbombs\" had Casio digital watches as the timers, stabilizers that looked like cotton wool balls, and an undetectable quantity of nitroglycerin as the explosive. Other ingredients included glycerin, nitrate, sulfuric acid, and minute concentrations of nitrobenzene, silver azide (silver trinitride), and liquid acetone. Two 9-volt batteries in each bomb were used as a power source. The batteries would be connected to light bulb filaments that would detonate the bomb. Murad and Yousef wired an SCR (silicon controlled rectifier) as the switch to trigger the filaments to detonate the bomb. There was an external socket hidden when the wires were pushed under the watch base as the bomber would wear it. The alteration was so small that the watch could still be worn in a normal manner.\n\nYousef got batteries past airport security during his December 11 test bombing of Philippine Airlines Flight 434 by hiding them in hollowed-out heels of his shoes. Yousef smuggled the nitroglycerin on board by putting it inside a small container, reputedly containing contact lens cleaning solution.\n\n\n\n\nAbdul Hakim Murad's confession detailed Phase III in his interrogation by the Manila police after his capture.\n\nPhase three would have involved Murad either renting, buying, or hijacking a small airplane, preferably a Cessna. The airplane would be filled with explosives. He would then crash it into the Central Intelligence Agency headquarters in the Langley area in Fairfax County, Virginia. Murad had been trained as a pilot in North Carolina, and was slated to be a suicide pilot.\n\nThere were alternate plans to hijack a 12th commercial airliner and use that instead of the small aircraft, probably due to the Manila cell's growing frustration with explosives. Testing explosives in a house or apartment is dangerous, and it can easily give away a terrorist plot. Khalid Sheik Mohammed probably made the alternate plan.\n\nA report from the Philippines to the United States on January 20, 1995 stated, \"What the subject has in his mind is that he will board any American commercial aircraft pretending to be an ordinary passenger. Then he will hijack said aircraft, control its cockpit and dive it at the CIA headquarters.\"\n\nAnother plot that was considered would have involved the hijacking of more airplanes. The World Trade Center (New York City, New York), The Pentagon (Arlington, Virginia), the United States Capitol (Washington, D.C.), the White House (Washington, D.C.), the Sears Tower (Chicago, Illinois), and the U.S Bank Tower (Los Angeles, California), would have been the likely targets. In his confession to Filipino investigators, prior to the foiling of Operation Bojinka, Abdul Hakim Murad said that this part of the plot was dropped since the Manila cell could not recruit enough people to implement other hijackings. This plot would eventually be the base plot for the September 11 attacks which involved hijacking commercial airliners, as opposed to small aircraft loaded with explosives, and crashing them into their intended targets. However, only the World Trade Center (which was destroyed) and The Pentagon (which suffered partial damage) were hit.\n\nThe plot was abandoned after an apartment fire at the six-story Doña Josefa apartments occurred in Manila, Philippines, on the evening of Friday, January 6, 1995. The fire occurred before Pope John Paul II was scheduled to visit the Philippines on January 12.\n\nAccording to the initial accounts of the Philippine authorities, Abdul Hakim Murad started a chemical fire in the kitchen sink in Room 603 in the 6th floor of the Doña Josefa apartment by pouring water on a substance. The fire was spotted at about 11 pm after residents complained about a strange odour. Edith Guerrera, the owner of the apartments, called the fire brigade, but the fire went out unassisted. Yousef and Murad had told the firefighters to stay away before they fled. Police Major Francisco F. Bautista and his men, including watch commander Aida D. Fariscal, decided to investigate the situation and saw four hot plates in their packing crates, what looked like cotton batting soaked in a beige solution, and loops of green, red, blue, and yellow electrical wiring. The telephone rang, and the police ran downstairs, thinking that it was a trap. Fariscal had been suspicious of the men in Room 603 due to the recent wave of bombings (committed by Yousef) that hit Metro Manila and Philippine Airlines Flight 434. Seeking a search warrant, they left and asked 11 judges before finding one that would grant a warrant.\n\nA 2002 \"Los Angeles Times\" article stated that the police deliberately set a fire to rouse the men out of their apartment.\n\nAfter police discovered the evidence, they arrested a man who called himself \"Ahmed Saeed.\" \"Saeed\", who later proved to be Murad, claimed that he was a commercial pilot who was on his way to the precinct house to explain that what he claimed to be firecrackers had gone off. Murad initially tried to run away, but he was arrested after he tripped over a tree root. The arresting officer, having lost his handcuffs, improvised a solution by tying Murad's hands with the elastic cord taken from the officer's raincoat. Murad was hauled to the precinct in a taxi van with the help of two other people. He offered 110,740 Philippine pesos (US$2,000) to the policemen if they would agree to let him go, but the officers refused. At the precinct, Murad signed a statement saying that he was innocent and that he was a tourist visiting his friend in his chemical import/export business. He then mumbled about \"two Satans that must be destroyed: the Pope and America.\"\n\n55-year-old Fariscal was later depicted (although by a much younger actress) in the 2006 docudrama \"The Path to 9/11\", in which US agencies in the script gave her much credit. An actress portrays her in the \"Mayday\" episode \"Bomb on Board.\" The widow of a slain police officer, she had spent seventeen years as a homemaker before enrolling in the police department in 1977. She became well known in her home nation, which awarded her the equivalent of 33,222 pesos ($700) and a trip to Taiwan. The CIA awarded her a certificate reading \"in recognition of your personal outstanding efforts and co-operation.\" Her decision to investigate the fire was key to disrupting the plot and forcing Yousef to flee.\n\nWhen the officers returned to Suite 603 at 2:30 am on January 7, they found: street maps of Manila with routes plotting the papal motorcade, a rosary, a photograph of the pontiff, bibles, crucifixes, papal confessions, and priest clothing, including robes and collars. This collection of objects, and a phone message from a tailor reminding the occupant that \"the cassock was ready to be tried on\", along with the fact of the Pope's impending visit, was enough for Police Major Francisco F. Bautista to infer that an assassination plot had been interrupted. A search warrant was granted by 4 am on January 7.\n\nMore chemicals, such as gallons of sulfuric acid, picric acid, nitric acid, pure glycerin, acetone, sodium trichlorate (sic), nitrobenzoyl (sic), ammonia, silver nitrate, methanamine, and ANFO were found. Several cans of gasoline and two large Welch's grape juice bottles containing nitroglycerin were found. Equipment such as thermometers, graduated cylinders, large cooking kettles, funnels, fuses, filters, soldering irons, beakers, mortars, pestles, different electronic fusing systems, timers, switches, and circuit breakers were found. Also discovered in the search was a finished remote-controlled brass pipe bomb, as well as another pipe bomb that was about to be packed. The apartment also contained a chemistry textbook and chemical dictionary, a TIME magazine with the cover story on international terrorism, as well as a pharmacy receipt and bottle of contact lens solution. In a cupboard under the sink a finished time bomb and other Casio watches were found.\n\nThe most conclusive piece of evidence found was a manual written in Arabic on how to build a liquid bomb.\n\nStacks of 12 false passports, including Norwegian, Afghan, Saudi, and Pakistani were also found in the apartment. Investigators found a business card from Mohammed Jamal Khalifa; Saeed apparently possessed five telephone numbers from Khalifa. Investigators also found phone numbers for Rose Masquera, Mohammed's girlfriend.\n\nYousef's project was discovered on four floppy disks and an off-white Toshiba laptop inside his apartment, two weeks before the plot would have been implemented. Several encrypted files on the hard drive contained flight schedules, calculations of detonation times, and other items.\nThe first string of text in one of the files states, \"All people who support the U.S. government are our targets in our future plans and that is because all those people are responsible for their government's actions and they support the U.S. foreign policy and are satisfied with it. We will hit all U.S. nuclear targets. If the U.S. government keeps supporting Israel, then we will continue to carry out operations inside and outside the United States to include...\" and the text ends.\n\nA file named \"Bojinka\" lists the 11 flights between Asia and the United States, which were grouped under five codenames. Strings were found, such as \"SETTING: 9:30 pm to 10:30 pm TIMER: 23HR. BOJINKA: 20:30-21:30 NRT Date 5\" (for United flight 80), and \"SETTING: 8:30-9:00. TIMER: 10HR. BOJINKA: 19:30-20:00 NRT Date 4\" (for Northwest Flight 30).\n\nThe laptop had names of dozens of associates, including some photographs of a few of them and including contact information for Mohammed Jamal Khalifa. They contained records of information about five-star hotels, dealings with a London trading corporation, a meat market owner in Malaysia, and an Islamic center in Tucson, Arizona. Information about how money moved through an Abu Dhabi banking firm was found.\n\nA communication signed \"Khalid Shaikh + Bojinka\" was also found on Yousef's computer that threatened to attack targets \"in response to the financial, political and military assistance given to the Jewish state in the occupied land of Palestine by the United States Government.\" The letter also said that the bombers claimed to have \"ability to make and use chemicals and poisonous gas... for use against vital institutions and populations and the sources of drinking water.\"\n\nThe letter also threatened to assassinate Fidel V. Ramos, the President of the Philippines at the time, as well as attack aircraft if the United States did not meet the group's demands. The letter said that the group claiming responsibility was the \"Fifth Division of the Liberation Army\".\n\nThe evidence found at the Doña Josefa filled three police vans.\n\nSometime after police arrested Saeed, he had called Ramzi Yousef's cellular phone.\n\nSaeed turned out to be Abdul Hakim Murad, who was sent to the apartment to retrieve the computer after the fire. Murad was sent to Camp Crame, the headquarters of the Philippine National Police. Murad at first taunted investigators. For sixty-seven days, he endured \"tactical interrogation\" by Filipino investigators.\n\nAccording to journalists Marites Vitug and Glenda Gloria, authors of the book \"Under the Crescent Moon\", agents hit Murad with a chair and club of wood when he did not talk. They forced water into his mouth, and crushed out lit cigarettes on his genitals. Murad's ribs were completely cracked. Agents were surprised that he survived. According to an investigator, he finally confessed out of fear of Jews after an agent masquerading as a member of the Mossad told him that he was being sent to Israel.\n\nMurad admitted in his interrogations, \"This is my — the best thing. I enjoy it\", and \"because the United States is the first country in this world making trouble for us, for Muslims and for our people.\"\n\nHe talked about the bombs. \"Nobody can think that it's... explosive\", he said, referring to the watches Ramzi Yousef planned to put on the airliners. He said that the nitroglycerin \"which even if you'll put in the X-ray, you will never, nobody can\" detect it.\n\nMurad confessed that he was on a quest to be a martyr. He confessed to being the hijacker as part of Phase II of his plan. Murad was extradited to the United States on April 12, 1995. His testimony helped convict Yousef.\n\nWali Khan Amin Shah was arrested at an apartment complex on January 11 after police saw that a pager called by Yousef was registered in the name of Shah's girlfriend. Shah escaped from custody about 77 hours later. Shah was found to be a conspirator after authorities saw photos of him scanned on the laptop that contained information about the plot, as well as cell phone numbers that led investigators to the apartment. Yousef and Khalid Sheikh Mohammed were able to escape from the Philippines to Pakistan. On January 31, 1995, Yousef flew from Pakistan to Thailand in an attempt to place suitcase bombs on a Delta Airlines and United Airlines aircraft. When that failed, he flew back to Pakistan.\n\nAfter receiving Murad's phone call, Yousef made plans to leave and flew to Singapore about five hours after Murad's arrest. One day after Bojinka was discovered, Yousef made his way to Pakistan. Mohammed went to Pakistan days or weeks afterwards.\n\nThe Philippines forwarded details on the Bojinka plot to the United States in April 1995. Konsojaya was heard via wiretaps to be frequently in contact with Mohammed Jamal Khalifa's charitable organization until the plot was discovered.\n\nYousef was arrested in the Su-Casa guest house in Islamabad, Pakistan on February 7, 1995 after a 23-day manhunt. Yousef later boasted to Secret Service agent Brian Parr about his plan. Wali Khan Amin Shah, the financier, was picked up in Malaysia in December 1995. His identity was revealed after he was fingerprinted. Shah was also extradited to the United States.\n\nAll three conspirators got life sentences for participating in the plot. Yousef also got 240 years along with his life sentence for the 1993 World Trade Center bombing. Yousef was sentenced on January 8, 1998, and Murad was sentenced on May 16, 1998. Shah has been cooperating with the government since August 1998.\n\nMohammed Jamal Khalifa, a Saudi businessman from Jeddah who was married to one of Osama bin Laden's sisters, was in the Philippines earlier in 1994. He was arrested in 1994 in Mountain View, California, for conspiring in the 1993 World Trade Center bombing. He was financing the Bojinka plot, according to the content that the Filipino investigators forwarded to the United States. The United States Immigration and Naturalization Service deported Khalifa to Jordan in May 1995. He was acquitted by the Jordanian court and moved to Saudi Arabia. He was murdered in his hotel room in January 2007 in Madagascar.\n\nU.S. investigators did not find the connection with Khalid Sheikh Mohammed to al-Qaeda until several years later.\nKhalid Sheikh Mohammed decided that explosives were too risky to use in his next plot, and chose instead to use airplanes. The plot was later revised and executed during the September 11 attacks. Khalid Sheikh Mohammed was arrested in Rawalpindi, Pakistan in 2003.\n\nYousef filed a motion for a new trial in 2001. The United States Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit heard the case on May 3, 2002, and announced on April 3, 2003 the decision that Yousef and his partners were to remain incarcerated.\n\nBojinka was included in a number of 9/11 documentaries and mini-series, including \"The Path to 9/11\", and \"The Secret History of 9/11\".\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "18241068", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18241068", "title": "Carl Frode Tiller", "text": "Carl Frode Tiller\n\nCarl Frode Tiller (born 4 January 1970 in Namsos) is a Norwegian author, historian and musician. His works are in Nynorsk (lit. \"New Norwegian\"), one of the two official Norwegian standard languages. \n\nTiller made his literary debut in 2001 with the novel \"Skråninga\" (\"The Slope\"), which was recognized as the best Norwegian literary debut of the year with the Tarjei Vesaas' debutantpris and nominated for the Brage Prize. In November 2007 Tiller was awarded the Brage Prize for his novel \"\" (\"Encirclement\"). In the fall of 2007 \"\" received the Norwegian Critics Prize for Literature and was nominated for the premiere Scandinavian literature prize, the Nordic Council's Literature Prize. It also won him the European Union Literary Award in 2009. \n\nTiller is also a musician in the band Kong Ler.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "24177747", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24177747", "title": "Caroline Emmerton", "text": "Caroline Emmerton\n\nCaroline Osgood Emmerton (1866–1942) was a wealthy philanthropist from Salem, Massachusetts who established The House of the Seven Gables as a combined historic site and settlement house in 1907.\n\nWith a fortune inherited from her grandfather, maritime trader John Bertram, Emmerton carried on her family’s tradition of endowing and supporting charitable good works, including the Bertram Home for Aged Men, the Salem public library, the Seaman’s Widow and Orphan Society, the Family Service Association, the Salem Fraternity Boys Club, and the city’s Public Welfare Society, as well as the Society for the Preservation of New England Antiquities (now Historic New England), of which she was a founding member. By the age of twenty eight she was a board of director for the Charter St. Home now the North Shore Medical Center/Salem Hospital. In 1907, she joined with a group of women to explore forming a settlement house in Salem and to do “experimental work.” By the following year, these women had begun to offer classes in sewing and other crafts and activities in an old Seaman’s Bethel next to the historic Turner-Ingersoll Mansion, which was also known as the house that Nathaniel Hawthorne had written about in his novel The House of the Seven Gables. In 1908, she bought the Turner-Ingersoll house, and in 1910 the organization opened in its hybrid form. She hired Joesph Everett Chandler as the architect.\n\nLike many American settlement house founders and workers, Emmerton saw exposure to historic environments and stories as a way for new immigrants to absorb democratic values and practices. “If, as is generally conceded, the settlements do the best Americanization work,” she wrote, “should not this settlement excel whose home is the ancient House of Seven Gables, the foundations of which were laid by the first immigrants who came here long ago, strangers in a strange land?” Over time, Emmerton continued to expand and reorganize the compound, eventually moving four additional colonial-era buildings to the site and working with the colonial revival architect Joseph Everett Chandler to restore them.\n\n"}
{"id": "5311771", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5311771", "title": "Cimbebasia", "text": "Cimbebasia\n\nCimbebasia was the name given for a long time to the western part of Southern Africa. Its borders in the north were the Kunene River, the lower Kasai River and the western reaches of the Zambezi River.\n\n\"Cimbebasia\" was also a journal published by the State Museum of Windhoek, Namibia.\n\nOriginally Cimbebasia was included in the immense vicariate apostolic made up of Senegambia, French Guinea and Portuguese Guinea, which had been erected in 1842 and of which Bishop Barron was appointed first vicar Apostolic.\nThe Congregation of Propaganda separated Cimbebasia on 3 July 1879 from this vicariate and made of it a prefecture Apostolic. The Congrégation du Saint-Esprit et de l’Immaculé Cœur de Marie were placed in charge of the new field, and Father Duparquet of the same congregation was appointed first prefect Apostolic.\nThe new mission was, however, still very large, being made up of three distinct regions: the northern part, which included the territory of the Amboella and Gangela and was under the influence of Portugal; the southern part, composed of Ovamboland and Damaraland, coming under the control of Germany; and Bechuanaland.\nAfter having tried to found stations in all these different territories, the missionaries decided to concentrate their efforts on the northern part of the prefecture. The superior general of the congregation therefore requested the Holy See to confide to other institutes the remaining sections of the vicariate.\nConsequently, Propaganda Fide placed the northern part of the vicariate, under the name of the Prefecture of Upper Cimbebasia, in charge of the Congrégation du Saint-Esprit on 1 August 1892, while the German territory was called the Prefecture of Lower Cimbebasia, and given to the fathers of the Missionary Oblates of Mary Immaculate. Bechuanaland was then united to the vicariate of the Orange Free State.\nThe Prefecture of Upper Cimbebasia was bounded on the north by the Kassai River, on the east by the 22nd degree of longitude east, on the west by the upper course of the Kunene, and on the south by the degree of latitude determined by the lower course of the Kunene. This degree of latitude also formed the boundary line between the Portuguese and German possessions in Southern Africa.\nUnder the direction of the prefect Apostolic, 20 priests and 8 Brothers of the Holy Ghost Fathers laboured for the evangelization of this territory, aided by 40 catechists and 5 Sisters of the Congregation of St. Joseph of Cluny.\nThere were 7 stations: Kakonda, Bailundo, Bihe, Katoko, Kassengue, Massaka, and Kuniama; 28 flourishing schools containing 1600 boys and 1100 girls, of whom 374 boys and 123 girls having their home at the schools. The Catholic population numbered about 10,200, of whom 9000 natives. During 1903 and 1904 there were 806 children and 491 adults baptized.\n\nIt was bounded on the north by the degree of latitude determined by the lower course of the Kunene River; on the east by the 22nd degree of longitude east; on the south by the 23rd degree of south latitude, in such manner that the town of Rehoboth was included in the Vicariate Apostolic of the former Orange Free State, next the Orange River Colony; on the west by the Atlantic. The region was under the colonial control of Germany.\nThe prefecture was erected by a decree of Propaganda Fide of 1 August 1892, which divided the earlier prefecture of Cimbebasia.\nThe Oblate Fathers of the Immaculate Mary had charge of the mission under the prefect Apostolic, who resided at Windhoek, the principal station.\n\nOther mission stations were: Little Windhoek, Nobra, Swakopmund, Usakos, Aminuis, Tpukiro, Omaruru and Okumbabe.\nIn the early 20th century the Catholics numbered about 1000, some 800 being Europeans. The labourers in the evangelization of this field were: 20 priests, 17 brothers, and 11 Missionary Sisters of St. Francis. There were 11 schools with 500 pupils, and 2 orphanages with 108 orphans.\n\nOn 1921.01.10 it was renamed as Apostolic Prefecture of Cimbebasia.\nOn 1926.05.11 this was promoted as Apostolic Vicariate of Windhoek, on 1994.03.14 finally promoted as Metropolitan Archdiocese of Windhoek.\n\nList of Roman Catholic dioceses in Africa\n"}
{"id": "44162736", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44162736", "title": "Clarance Holt", "text": "Clarance Holt\n\nClarance Holt (9 January 1826 – 27 September 1903), born Joseph Frederick Holt was an English actor-manager who had a successful career on the stage in England, Australia and New Zealand. His company included his wife and, frequently, his three children, all of whom went on to have successful careers on the stage.\n\nHe was born on 9 January 1826 in Marylebone, London the youngest son of Thomas Holt and Elizabeth Giddens. His father was a successful military tailor with an establishment (Thomas Holt & Son) in Piccadilly. He was variously described in his younger days as actor, acrobat and comedian and eventually adopted the stage name of Clarance. Holt made his stage debut in 1842 as Timothy in William Thomas Moncrieff's farce \"All at Coventry\" at the Victoria Theatre, London. He married Marian Browne (sometimes named Marian Vaughan) in 1847 and they were acting together by 1850 when he was appointed manager of the Theatre Royal, Norwich under the name of Joseph Clarance.\n\nHolt went to Melbourne with his wife in September 1854 at the suggestion of George Coppin. From Geelong he went to Hobart Town and Launceston, Tasmania and in September 1855 opened at the Prince of Wales Theatre in Sydney. Before leaving Australia in April 1857 he had played in most of the goldfields centres of Victoria and performed on 330 nights. In 1858 he returned to Melbourne with his family on board the Josephine. A successful tragedian, Holt played Othello to Gustavus Brooke's Iago; in 1862 as joint lessee of the Theatre Royal, Melbourne, he engaged such players as Brooke, Anna Bishop, Joseph Jefferson and others. When the lease ran out he went to Dunedin and \"became the pioneer of the English drama in New Zealand\" by establishing the theatre there.\n\nIn September 1864 he returned to England and went into partnership with Charles Wilmot and they managed a number of theatres including the City of London Theatre, The Duke’s Theatre, Holborn, The Islington Theatre and the Lyceum Theatre, Sunderland. In addition to managing these theatres he continued to perform and tour the provinces. He also created a successful one man touring show – \"A Night with Shakespeare and Dickens\" and in 1870 wrote, produced and starred in an adaptation of Les Miserables– \"The Barricade\". He retired from the stage in about 1893.\n\nHe was married three times: to Marian Browne in 1847, Alice Hayes in 1883 and Hannah Harris in 1893. His three children; Ellen Elizabeth (Nellie), Elizabeth May (May) and Joseph Thomas (Bland) all became actors.\n"}
{"id": "20751533", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20751533", "title": "Claudio Sánchez-Albornoz", "text": "Claudio Sánchez-Albornoz\n\nClaudio Sánchez-Albornoz y Menduiña (; Madrid April 7, 1893 – Ávila July 8, 1984) was an eminent Spanish medieval historian, statesman, and president of the Spanish Republican government in Exile during the rule of Francisco Franco.\n\nSánchez-Albornoz was born in Madrid to a prominent political family from the provincial capital of Ávila and attended the Central University of Madrid, where he obtained a licentiate degree in letters and philosophy in 1913 with first class honours. One year later, at age 21, he was awarded a doctorate degree in history with a thesis entitled \"La Monarquía en Asturias, León y Castilla durante los siglos VIII al XIII. La Potestad Real y los Señoríos\". He quickly established himself as the country's preeminent young scholar of medieval Spanish history, particularly the history of the monarchy and royal institutions in the early Middle Ages.\n\nBy 1920, Sánchez-Albornoz had already held several prestigious university chairs when he was offered the chair in Spanish medieval history at Madrid held by his late thesis adviser, Eduardo de Hinojosa. In 1926, he was inducted into the Real Academia de la Historia—the youngest member up to that time ever admitted to the elite scholarly institution. By 1931, he was appointed Dean of the Faculty of Philosophy and Letters and served as rector of the Central University the following year. During this time, he took a hiatus from his academic pursuits to join the newly established republican government, serving in parliament as a representative from Ávila, and later in several other prominent posts, including Minister of Education.\n\nDuring the early years of the Spanish Civil War, Sánchez-Albornoz was appointed the Spanish Republic ambassador to Portugal. When the government in Lisbon declared its support for Francisco Franco, he was dismissed from his post and he fled with his family to France and then, in 1940, to Argentina, where he would spend more than four decades in exile as both a scholar and leader of the democratic anti-Franco movement abroad.\n\nAfter a brief post at the University of Cuyo in the northern province of Mendoza, Sánchez-Albornoz was offered a position at the University of Buenos Aires where he created a center for Iberian medieval studies and founded a historical journal, the \"Cuadernos de historia de España\". During these years, he remained a tremendously productive scholar, writing extensively on early Spanish history and training young Argentine and other Latin American scholars to work on medieval documents and legal texts.\n\nFor Sánchez-Albornoz, the work of recovering the roots of the Spanish character and its political institutions in the Middle Ages was an extension of his political commitments to the republican Spanish state he had been a part of in the 1930s.\n\nBetween 1962 and 1970, Sánchez-Albornoz served as president of the council of the Spanish Republican Government in Exile and used his reputation and numerous invitations to speak abroad as a platform to promote the restoration of democracy in Spain.\n\nEven when Franco extended an amnesty to regime critics in 1969, Sánchez-Albornoz refused to return until the dictator had died.\n\nSánchez-Albornoz's scholarship came to focus on the kingdoms of Castile and León and the evolution of social and economic institutions under the influence of external pressures, whether Germanic (Visigothic) or Muslim/Arab. In his monumental, three-volume history of early feudalism that he had begun composing in France before the outbreak of war, \"En torno a los origines del feudalismo\" (1942), Sánchez-Albornoz emphasized the contributions of Visigothic culture and legal institutions to early Spanish history, particularly the monarchy and its relationship to the nobility and other segments of society. He also emphasized the emergence in Spain of a free peasantry in advancing the frontier regions during the Reconquista that complicated the development of serfdom and hierarchical structures of lordship historians described elsewhere in feudal Europe. While an earlier generation of scholars had also tended to focus on questions about the continuity of Roman influences in medieval Iberia, Sánchez-Albornoz instead argued that the Visigothic invasions of the fifth century had created a new, uniquely Hispanic, civilization which defined Spanish history and the Spanish people from that point forward, even during the centuries of Arab occupation.\n\nThis conviction about the origins of a unique Spanish national identity led to a notable academic feud with another scholar in exile, Américo Castro, who had moved to the United States and taught at Princeton University. Castro's ground-breaking book, \"España en su historia\" (1948; Engl. trans. 1954) posited that \"Spanish\" culture was essentially a hybrid one, produced over the course of centuries by the intermixing of Christian, Muslim and Jewish populations and traditions. Castro coined the term \"convivencia\"—loosely translated as \"living-together-ness\" or \"cohabitation\"—to describe the multicultural, religiously tolerant and dynamic society of medieval Spain. Sánchez-Albornoz—who regarded Castro's interdisciplinary, literature-focused methodology as insufficiently rigorous and scholarly—responded with a new study, \"España: un enigma histórico\" (1956), that argued for the persistence of a pre-Arab invasion Spanish culture and national identity grounded in the reproduction of key legal, political, and economic institutions. While he did not deny that Muslims and Jews were an important presence in medieval Iberia, Sánchez-Albornoz maintained that they contributed little creative energy to the processes of history or state-building and insisted upon an enduring idea of Spanish nationhood and identity that transcended the vagaries of history and the temporary influence of outside groups.\n\nWhile few academic historians today still subscribe to Sanchez-Albornoz's ideas about an essential national Spanish \"character\" which motivates history, there is still a lively scholarly debate over \"convivencia\" as a historical model for understanding medieval Spain.\n\nIn April 1976, six months after the death of Franco, Sánchez-Albornoz returned to his homeland for the first time in more than forty years and was given a hero's welcome, particularly in his family town of Ávila. He returned to Buenos Aires after a brief stay, but moved back to Ávila permanently in July 1983.\n\nHe died one year later, on 8 July 1984 at the age of 91 and was buried in the Cathedral of Ávila.\n\nThe Fundación D. Claudio Sánchez-Albornoz in Ávila was established shortly after his death to preserve and promote his scholarly legacy.\n\nDuring his long and distinguished career, Sánchez-Albornoz received dozens of awards and honorary degrees from institutions and nations around the world and was a member, or corresponding member, of numerous scholarly academies.\n\nSánchez-Albornoz was survived by two daughters, and a son, Nicolás (born 1926), who went on to become a noted scholar of Latin American demographic history, author of \"La población de América Latina\" (1973, trans 1974, frequently republished).\n\n"}
{"id": "64687", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=64687", "title": "Combined arms", "text": "Combined arms\n\nCombined arms is an approach to warfare which seeks to integrate different combat arms of a military to achieve mutually complementary effects (for example, using infantry and armor in an urban environment, where one supports the other, or both support each other). According to strategist William S. Lind, combined arms can be distinguished from the concept of \"supporting arms\" as follows:\nCombined arms hits the enemy with two or more arms simultaneously in such a manner that the actions he must take to defend himself from one make him more vulnerable to another. In contrast, supporting arms is hitting the enemy with two or more arms in sequence, or if simultaneously, then in such combination that the actions the enemy must take to defend himself from one also defends himself from the other(s).\n\nThough the lower-echelon units of a combined arms team may be of similar types, a balanced mixture of such units are combined into an effective higher-echelon unit, whether formally in a table of organization or informally in an \"ad hoc\" solution to a battlefield problem. For example, an armored division—the modern paragon of combined arms doctrine—consists of a mixture of infantry, tank, artillery, reconnaissance, and perhaps even helicopter units, all coordinated and directed by a unified command structure.\n\nAlso, most modern military units can, if the situation requires it, call on yet more branches of the military, such as infantry requesting bombing or shelling by fighter or bomber aircraft or naval forces to augment their ground offensive or protect their land forces. The mixing of arms is sometimes pushed down below the level where homogeneity ordinarily prevails, for example by temporarily attaching a tank company to an infantry battalion.\n\nCombined arms operations date back to antiquity, where armies would usually field a screen of skirmishers to protect their spearmen during the approach to contact. Especially in the case of the Greek hoplites, however, the focus of military thinking lay almost exclusively on the heavy infantry. In more elaborate situations armies of various nationalities fielded different combinations of light, medium, or heavy infantry, cavalry, chariotry, camelry, elephantry, and artillery (mechanical weapons). Combined arms in this context was how to best use the cooperating units, variously armed with side-arms, spears, or missile weapons in order to coordinate an attack to disrupt and then destroy the enemy.\n\nPhilip II of Macedon greatly improved upon the limited combined arms tactics of the Greek city-states and combined the newly created Macedonian phalanx with heavy cavalry and other forces. The phalanx would hold the opposing line in place, until the heavy cavalry could smash and break the enemy line by achieving local superiority.\n\nThe pre-Marian Roman Legion was a combined arms force and consisted of five classes of troops. Lightly equipped velites acted as skirmishers armed with light javelins. The hastati and principes formed the main attacking strength of the legion with sword and pilum, whilst the triarii formed the defensive backbone of the legion fighting as a phalanx with long spears and large shields. The fifth class were the equites (the cavalry) used for scouting, pursuit and to guard the flanks.\n\nAfter the Marian reforms the Legion was notionally a unit of heavy infantrymen armed with just sword and pilum, and fielded with a small attached auxiliary skirmishers and missile troops, and incorporated a small cavalry unit.\n\nThe legion was sometimes also incorporated into a higher-echelon combined arms unit — e.g., in one period it was customary for a general to command two legions plus two similarly sized units of auxiliaries, lighter units useful as screens or for combat in rough terrain.\n\nThe army of the Han Dynasty is also an example, fielding mêlée infantry, crossbowmen, and cavalry (ranging from horse archers to heavy lancers).\n\nCivilizations such as the Carthaginians and Sassanids also were known to have fielded a combination of infantry supported by powerful cavalry.\n\nAt the Battle of Hastings (1066) English infantry fighting from behind a shield wall were defeated by a Norman army consisting of archers, infantry and mounted knights (cavalry). One of the tactics used by the Normans was to tempt the English to leave the shield wall to attack retreating Norman infantry only to destroy them in the open with cavalry. Likewise Scottish sheltrons – which had been developed to counter the charges by English heavy cavalry, and had been used successfully against English cavalry at the Battle of Stirling Bridge (1297) – were destroyed at the Battle of Falkirk (1298) by English archers acting in concert with mounted knights. Both Hastings and Falkirk showed how combined arms could be used to defeat enemies relying on only one arm.\n\nThe English victories of Crécy, Poitiers and Agincourt were examples of a simple form of combined arms, with a combination of dismounted knights forming a foundation for formations of English longbowmen. The lightly protected longbowmen could down their French opponents at a distance, whilst the armoured men-at-arms could deal with any Frenchmen who made it to the English lines. This is the crux of combined arms: to allow a combination of forces to achieve what would be impossible for its constituent elements to do alone.\n\nDuring the Middle Ages military forces used combined arms as a method of winning battles and furthering a war leader or king's long term goals. Some historians claim that during the Middle Ages there was no strategic or tactical art to military combat. Kelly DeVries uses the Merriam-Webster definition of combat \"as a general military engagement\". In the pursuit of a leader's goals and self-interest tactical and strategic thinking was used along with taking advantage of the terrain and weather in choosing when and where to give battle. The simplest example is the combination of different specialties such as archers, infantry, cavalry (knights or shock mounted troops), and even peasant militia. At times, each force fought on its own and won or lost depending on the opposing military competence. During the Middle Ages leaders utilized a combination of these skilled and unskilled forces to win battles. An army that has multiple skills available can engage a larger force that incorporates mainly one or two types of troops. \n\nEach type of military formation – infantry, archers, cavalry, or peasant – has certain advantages that the other does not have. Infantry allows a force to hold ground and in the event of overwhelming enemy forces withdraw into terrain that mounted troops cannot maneuver as easily, thus negating the advantage of the horse. Archers provide standoff with their bows or crossbows. Cavalry can maneuver faster and provide fast attack before the enemy has had time to prepare defenses. Peasants are more numerous and cheaper on the royal coffers. Over the long term the army can cross-train and learn the skills of the specialties to increase combat effectiveness. This is known as a combat multiplier today. The combination of the different skills help provide a commander the flexibility to minimize risk when it comes to engagements. The overall objective of any military force is to fight and win, while also preserving the largest number of combatants to carry on the larger strategic aims of the king. This can be seen in some of the engagements during the Middle Ages.\n\nThe effective use of combined arms can – in conjunction with strategic and tactical considerations – overwhelm opposing forces even numerically superior forces. The use of terrain and weather can also aid in the use of combined arms to bring about the desired results of the commander of a military force.\n\nMid-1346, at Crecy-en-Ponthieu, an English army numbering between 3,000–20,000 mixed troops set up a defensive line for the oncoming French forces numbering nearly 100,000 mixed troops. The English being in a defensive position dismounted their knights to augment the infantry forces on the lines of defense. It is unclear from the sources of the location of the English archers, either on the flanks, intermingled with the line troops, or behind the lines; the most likely was that they were formed up along the flanks according to prior positions in previous battles. The French arrived on the battlefield and sent their crossbowmen in advance of the cavalry to assault the English lines. The effectiveness of the crossbowmen was limited by rain having soaked the strings of the crossbows reducing its effectiveness. The English archers had been able to keep their bow strings dry and only used them when the crossbowmen were in range. This led to the massacre of the crossbowmen and a retreat of the survivors who were then trampled by the advancing French cavalry. This also disrupted an already disorganized advance after a long march to the battlefield by the cavalry. The piecemeal assault of the French forces would lead to an English victory.\n\nIn 1315, Swiss peasants, archers, and infantry at Morgarten were able to ambush a larger Austrian force. The Swiss had rebelled against Austrian rule and funneled the Austrian forces into easily defended passes in the Swiss mountains. The peasants and archers on the high ground effectively rained down arrows and rocks to disorganize the Austrian forces and the infantry charged in forcing the advance guard to retreat into the main body causing more confusion, as well as a general military retreat by the Austrian military.\n\nIn 1345, an English army of about 1,200 men had been moving through the Périgord region of Gascony. The French army had caught up outside the town of Auberoche but did not know the English had hidden in the woods near where the French had encamped upon arrival. During the evening meal the French were surprised by an attack under the cover of English archers. The disorganized French forces were slaughtered and had no choice but to withdraw.\n\nIn Japan, at the battle of Nagashino (長篠の戦い) in 1575, forces of the Oda clan successfully employed combined arms against the Takeda clan army which heavily relied on cavalry. The Oda army erected palisades to protect their ashigaru musketeers that downed Takeda's cavalry while their samurai cut down any enemies who managed to approach mêlée range.\n\nThe 17th century saw increasing use of combined arms at lower (regimental) level. King Gustavus Adolphus of Sweden was the proponent of the idea. For fire support he attached teams of \"commanded musketeers\" to cavalry units and fielded light 3-pounder guns to provide infantry units with organic artillery.\n\nIn the eighteenth century, the concept of the legion was revived. Legions now consisted of musketeers, light infantry, dragoons and artillery in a brigade sized force. These legions often combined professional military personnel with militia. Perhaps the most notable example is the use of light cavalry, light infantry and light horse artillery in advance detachments by France's La Grande Armée during the Napoleonic Wars.\n\nAfter 25 years of near continuous warfare, the armies that met at the Battle of Waterloo were organised in a similar manner–into corps which contained infantry, cavalry and artillery (see Order of battle of the Waterloo Campaign), and used similar combined arms tactics. Within each corps were divisions of infantry or cavalry made up of brigades and an artillery unit. An army would usually also have reserves of all three arms under the direct command of the army commander which could be sent in support of any corps or division of a corps to increase any arm which the army general considered necessary. The great French cavalry charge commanded by Marshal Ney during the battle failed to break Wellington's squares of infantry and Ney's failure to supplement his cavalry with sufficient horse artillery to break the squares open is usually given as a major contributing factor in the failure. It is an example of why generals needed to use combined arms to overcome the tactics used by enemy officers to frustrate an attack by a single arm of an army.\n\nIn contrast the 27th (Inniskilling) suffered 478 casualties from an initial strength of 750 because of their exposure to attack by French combined arms. They were located near the centre of Wellington's line, but unlike most of the rest of Wellington's infantry were in a declivity on the exposed side of the Mont-Saint-Jean escarpment. Exposed as they were, they were forced to stand in square for most of the day for fear of cavalry attack and so made an easy dense target for Napoleon's massed artillery.\n\nThe development of modern combined arms tactics began in the First World War. Early in the Western Front, fighting descended into stagnant trench warfare. Generals on both sides applied conventional military thinking to the new weapons and situations that they faced. In these early stages, tactics typically consisted of heavy artillery barrages followed by massed frontal assaults against well entrenched enemies. These tactics were largely unsuccessful and resulted in large loss of life.\n\nAs the war progressed new combined arms tactics were developed, often described then as the \"all arms battle\". These included direct close artillery fire support for attacking soldiers (the creeping barrage), air support and mutual support of tanks and infantry. One of the first instances of combined arms was the Battle of Cambrai, in which the British used tanks, artillery, infantry, small arms and air power to break through enemy lines. Previously such a battle would have lasted months with many hundreds of thousands of casualties. Co-ordination and planning were the key elements, and the use of combined arms tactics in the Hundred Days Offensive in 1918 allowed the Allied forces to exploit breakthroughs in the enemy trenches, forcing the surrender of the Central Powers.\n\nIn World War II combined arms was a fundamental part of some operational doctrines like the German Blitzkrieg or the Soviet deep battle doctrine, which was based on combining tanks, mobile units (mechanised infantry or cavalry) and infantry, while supported by artillery.\n\nIn 1963 the United States Marine Corps formalized the concept of the Marine Air-Ground Task Force, which combined Marine aviation and Marine ground units for expeditionary missions.\n\nThe Vietnam War had a profound influence on the development of the US Army's combined arms doctrine. Due to the very difficult terrain that prevented access to the enemy-held areas of operation, troops were often deployed by air assault. For this reason, US troops in Vietnam saw six times more combat than in preceding wars, due to less time spent on logistic delays. The result: an infantry unit increased in effectiveness by a factor of four for its size, when supported with helicopter-delivered ammunition, food and fuel. In time the US Army in Vietnam also learned to combine helicopter operations and airmobile infantry with the armoured and artillery units operating from fire support bases as well as the US brown-water navy and USAF Close Air Support units supporting them.\n\nIn the 1991 Gulf War a mix of strikes by fixed-wing aircraft including carpet bombing and precision bombing was used in combination with large numbers of strikes by attack helicopters. During the ground assault phase, tanks and other AFVs supported by attack aircraft swept over remaining forces. The front line moved forward at upwards of 40–50 km/h at the upper limit of the Army's tracked vehicles.\n\nIn 2000, the US Army began developing a new set of doctrines intended to use information superiority to wage warfare. Six pieces of equipment were crucial for this: AWACS, an airborne look-down radar JSTARS, GPS, the lowly SINCGARS VHF digital radio, and ruggedized PCs. The mix is supplemented by satellite photos and passive reception of enemy radio emissions, forward observers with digital target designation, specialized scouting aircraft, anti-artillery radars and gun-laying software for artillery. Everything feeds into the network.\n\nBased on this doctrine, many US ground vehicles moved across the landscape alone. If they encountered an enemy troop or vehicle concentration, they would assume a defensive posture, lay down as much covering fire as they could, designate the targets for requested air and artillery assets. Within a few minutes, on station aircraft would direct their missions to cover the ground vehicle. Within a half-hour heavy attack forces would concentrate to relieve the isolated vehicle. In an hour and a half the relieved vehicle would be resupplied.\n\n"}
{"id": "53597975", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53597975", "title": "Conservation and restoration of ancient Greek pottery", "text": "Conservation and restoration of ancient Greek pottery\n\nThe conservation and restoration of Ancient Greek pottery is a sub-section of the broader topic of conservation and restoration of ceramic objects. Ancient Greek pottery is one of the most commonly found types of artifacts from the ancient Greek world. The information learned from vase paintings forms the foundation of modern knowledge of ancient Greek art and culture. Most ancient Greek pottery is terracotta, a type of earthenware ceramic, dating from the 11th century BCE through the 1st century CE. The objects are usually excavated from archaeological sites in broken pieces, or shards, and then reassembled. Some have been discovered intact in tombs. Professional conservator-restorers, often in collaboration with curators and conservation scientists, undertake the conservation-restoration of ancient Greek pottery.\n\nAncient repairs were made to damaged pottery using metal pins or staples, which could be made of copper, lead, or bronze. Animal or vegetable based adhesives may have also been used. Fragments from other vessels were sometimes used to replace damaged or missing sections of an object. The decorative elements on the replacement pieces may or may not have matched the rest of the vase.\n\nRestoration methods used during the 18th through early 20th century generally attempted to restore vessels to a near pristine state and hide any evidence of past damage. Archaeological discoveries and a surge in the popularity of ancient Greek art in the 18th and 19th centuries created a high demand for objects and artifacts. The customary restoration method started with reassembling vessel fragments. Missing fragments were replaced with new glazed and fired pieces of pottery and gaps were filled in with plaster. The surface was then painted, sometimes extensively. Materials used included shellac, protein glues, oil paints, gypsum, plaster of Paris, barium sulphate, calcite, clay, kaolin, and waterglass (calcium silicate). In some cases, decorative imagery was censored and painted over, in order to appeal to the tastes of contemporary society and potential collectors.\n\nThe modern approach to conservation generally involves using non-destructive methods to evaluate objects and restoration techniques which emphasize the difference between areas of modern repair and ancient craftsmanship. Reversible adhesives, paint, and other materials are used in restorations. Conservation departments at museums such as the Getty Villa approach conservation of ancient pottery with the goal to \"visually integrate filled areas and make them less obtrusive while still distinguishing them from the original ceramic and preserving an object's history.\"\n\nMost ancient Greek pottery is terracotta, a type of earthenware fired clay ceramic. The composition of minerals, metal, organic and other inorganic materials in the clay varies depending on its source. These variations impact the color of the clay before and after firing. Iron is the most common material found in clay, and can add red, grey, or buff coloring to the object. Pottery can be course wares, which are undecorated or only minimally decorated utilitarian vessels, or fine wares, which are decorated, finely potted, and used for a variety of purposes, including ceremonial use. Vase paintings were primarily created using slip, a thin, transparent layer of clay which turned color after firing. Other materials used in vase paintings include added pigment, added clay to create a relief on the surface, or dilute gloss that added color after firing. Unevenly applied gloss or misfiring also created variations in color or surface texture. Gilding was also sometimes added after firing.\n\nCeramics, and ancient ceramics in particular, can suffer a variety of types of damage. Most agents of deterioration are due to environment and are inherent to the materials, however the most common damage is caused by human action.\n\nBreaks, losses, or abrasions can be caused by improper handling, impact (dropping), or excavation. Ceramics are strong in compression, but weak under tension, meaning they are fragile and susceptible to mechanical shock.\n\nIf a piece of pottery has been buried in salty or alkaline soil or submersed in seawater, the clay may have soaked up soluble salts, such as sulphite, nitrates, or chlorides. Changes in relative humidity can cause the salts to react and dissolve (in high humidity) or recrystallize (in low humidity). These reactions can cause pottery to suffer surface losses or delamination.\n\nPrevious restorations can cause unintended damage over time. Metal pins or staples can corrode and deteriorate. Plaster repairs may become unstable. In-painting may fade or discolor. Intentional over-painting from past conservation efforts is another form of damage. Scenes were sometimes altered in order to appeal to current tastes. A common example is a fig leaf being painted over a nude figure. Overly aggressive cleaning with acid can also cause damage. Acid cleaning is meant to remove insoluble salts and minerals from the surface of archaeological ceramics. Pottery that has been improperly cleaned and damaged by acid may have pitted, cracked, powdery, or flaking surfaces.\n\nPreventative conservation measures can help slow further deterioration or damage.\n\nAs with any fragile ceramic object, proper handling techniques will help prevent accidental damage. Objects should be handled as little as possible. When handling is necessary, objects should be held at their strongest points only. Pressure on the weakest points, such as handles, necks, or areas with existing damage, should be avoided. Objects should be handled with clean, dry hands, or with nitrile gloves. Cotton gloves are not recommended, because the fabric prevents a stable grip and threads can snag on rough surfaces. Objects on display in museums are secured with mounts or protected by cases to prevent unwanted or accidental contact. Vessels may be displayed upright or at an angle, depending on the decorative elements on display. Any mounts should keep the object stable without putting pressure on any fragile areas.\n\nDespite being dried and fired, pottery clay is still a porous material which will react to changes in environmental conditions. Avoiding extreme changes in temperature can help maintain the condition of ancient Greek pottery. As discussed above in the section on damage from Soluble Salts, preventing extreme fluctuations in relative humidity can also help prevent further deterioration. Objects should be protected from water and dirt.\n\nThe following techniques are used by conservators to evaluate the condition of ancient Greek pottery and determine appropriate treatment. Examination is the first step in the conservation process.\n\nConservators begin the evaluation of an object with careful visual inspection to identify areas of weakness, loss, delamination, discoloration, or old repairs. Further examination with a low power microscope can help conservators identify materials and technical features, such as pigment, gilding, or added clay.\n\nWhen exposed to invisible UV light, many types of materials will display certain colors of visible light. This can enable conservators to identify areas of different media throughout the object.\n\nX-rays can reveal breaks, internal features, or hidden ancient repairs, such as pins.\nAnother type of x-ray, called X-ray Fluorescence (XRF) Spectroscopy can reveal the elemental and chemical composition of a material. X-ray absorption near edge structure (XANES) spectroscopy can reveal the iron oxidation states in pottery (the factor that determines black and red color) and X-ray absorption fine structure (EXAFS) analyses can provide information on the molecular structure of iron minerals.\n\nAfter evaluation is completed, conservator-restorers can determine the most appropriate form of treatment. Treatments can range from non-invasive techniques, such as cleaning, to more invasive conservation such as disassembly, reconstruction, and restoration.\n\nBasic mechanical cleaning can remove dirt, dust, and grime. Cleaning solvents and water can also be used to remove dirt, varnish, wax, in-painting, or adhesives. Acids should be used with caution. Desalination is a cleaning method that removes as much soluble salt from the porous fired clay as possible. Fragments are soaked in highly purified water for multiple days. The water is changed regularly until salt levels are reduced.\n\nFor vessels that have been previously conserved and reassembled, shards may need to be disassembled in order to remove old restoration materials and complete conservation. Adhesives and fill are systematically removed, revealing the original pottery and allowing the vessel to be deconstructed.\n\nSeparated shards are carefully reassembled. Conservators use identifying clues such as shape, texture, and decorative pattern or painted scenes to piece together fragments. Missing shards can be recreated out of plaster and replaced. In-painting is used to disguise areas of repair. In modern conservation treatment, the media used by conservators is reversible and can easily be distinguished from ancient material. Different conservators, or conservation departments, may have different policies regarding in-painting. Some conservators leave replacement fragments completely undecorated in order to easily distinguish them as modern additions. Some conservators paint silhouettes of missing figures, using existing fragments, scene narrative, and other extant vases as examples. This approach helps show the narrative of the painted scene, while still distinguishing the modern restoration from the original fragments. Some conservators use more extensive in-painting to recreate missing decoration.\n\nThe Affecter Amphora, in the collection of the Walters Art Gallery in Baltimore, Maryland, is a case study for the history of conservation of Greek vases. The black figured Attic (meaning from Athens region) vessel was created around 540 BCE by a well documented vase painter known as the Affecter Painter. Treatment of the vase in the 1980s provided the conservation field with significant insight into the history of the restoration of Greek vases. Conservators discovered that the amphora had been broken and repaired in antiquity. Samples of burial dirt found within holes in the vase proved that the repairs were made prior to the vase being used in an ancient funeral. Conservators also discovered that the vase was restored in the late19th century with materials and methods typical of the time period. Plaster, replacement pieces of terracotta, and extensive overpainting had been used in the restoration. Overpainting disguised repairs and also altered the appearance of nude satyrs on the decorative panels. The 1980s conservation revealed the original work of the Affecter Painter and restored the vase to a stable condition.\n\nThe Francois Vase, in the collection of the National Archaeological Museum in Florence, Italy, is a large Attic volute krater, which is both a superb example of black-figure pottery from c. 570-560 BCE, as well as an example of extensive conservation work. The vase was discovered in a tomb in 1844. In the year 1900, a member of the museum staff smashed the display case and the vase shattered into over 600 pieces. It was restored by 1902, and then restored again in 1973, with previously missing pieces.\n\nConservation and Restoration of Ceramic Objects\nPottery of Ancient Greece\nPottery\n\n"}
{"id": "20990129", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20990129", "title": "El Djem Archaeological Museum", "text": "El Djem Archaeological Museum\n\nEl Djem Archaeological Museum is an archaeological museum located in El Djem, Tunisia. It contains Roman era art, including mythological personages, abstract elements and fauna.\n\n"}
{"id": "15711726", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15711726", "title": "Extinct radionuclide", "text": "Extinct radionuclide\n\nAn extinct radionuclide is a radionuclide that was formed by nucleosynthesis before the formation of the Solar System, about 4.6 billion years ago, and incorporated into it, but has since decayed to virtually zero abundance, due to having a half-life shorter than about 100 million years.\n\nShort-lived radioisotopes that are found in nature are continuously generated or replenished by natural processes, such as cosmic rays (cosmogenic nuclides), background radiation, or the decay chain or spontaneous fission of very long-lived isotopes such as uranium or thorium.\n\nShort-lived isotopes that are not generated or replenished by natural processes are not found in nature, so they are known as extinct radionuclides. Their former existence is inferred from a superabundance of their stable decay products.\n\nExamples of extinct radionuclides include iodine-129 (the first to be noted in 1960, inferred from excess xenon-129 concentrations in meteorites, in the xenon-iodine dating system), aluminium-26 (inferred from extra magnesium-26 found in meteorites), and iron-60.\n\nThe Solar System and Earth formed from primordial nuclides and extinct nuclides. Extinct nuclides have decayed away, but primordial nuclides still exist in their original state (undecayed). There are 253 stable primordial nuclides, and remainders of 33 primordial radionuclides that have very long half-lives.\n\nA partial list of radionuclides not found on Earth, but for which decay products are present:\n\nNotable isotopes with shorter lives still being produced on Earth include:\n\nRadioisotopes with half-lives shorter than one million years are also produced: for example, carbon-14 by cosmic ray production in the atmosphere (half-life 5730 years).\n\n\n"}
{"id": "15642379", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15642379", "title": "F. X. Martin", "text": "F. X. Martin\n\nFrancis Xavier \"F.X.\" Martin, OSA (Irish: \"Proinsias Xavier Ó Máirtín\"; 2 October 1922 – 13 February 2000) was an Irish cleric, historian and activist. \n\nFrancis Xavier Martin was born 2 October 1922 in Ballylongford, County Kerry. Francis was the youngest son in a family of five boys and five girls born to Conor and Katherine Fitzmaurice Martin. His father was a physician. All but one of his brothers also became priests: Conor became professor of ethics and politics at University College Dublin, and his brother Malachi was for a while a Jesuit and became a controversial writer.\n\nMartin was raised in Dublin, and attended the local national school before attending Holy Faith School, Clontarf and then went to Belvedere College, in Dublin. In 1941, he became an Augustinian friar. He received a B.A. from University College Dublin in 1949. He was ordained a priest in 1952. Martin then pursued a doctorate at Cambridge University, where he was the first Catholic priest admitted since the Reformation. In 1959, after completing his doctoral thesis at Cambridge, he became assistant in history at University College Dublin and in 1961 Professor of Medieval History. In 1963 he was appointed head of UCD's Department of Medieval History.\nHe was chairman of the Friends of Medieval Dublin, 1976–83, and of the Dublin Historic Settlement Group, and was noted as a leading member of a well-publicized struggle, during the late 1970s and early 1980s, to save the historic Wood Quay archaeological site in Dublin. While Martin could not prevent the construction of a civic office building, in 1978, part of the site was declared a national monument. Martin, a keen horseman, earned from his colleagues the nickname \"The Beggar on Horseback\", from his evading a fine by citing that he was a mendicant. \n\nHe was also chairman of the Council of Trustees of the National Library of Ireland from 1977 to 1981.\n\nHe was the author of landmark books on the history of Ireland and of his own Augustinian order.\n\nHe died at the house of the Augustinians near Rathfarnham, County Dublin on 13 February 2000, and was buried in Glasnevin Cemetery. According to UN High Commissioner for Human Rights, Mrs Mary Robinson, \"The passion with which F.X. strove to save Wood Quay, whether as a litigant, as leader of huge public demonstrations, or as occupier of the site itself, was a passion for a Dublin which understood and treasured its past. He combined this passion with a great sense of fun and love of life.\"\n\nHis papers are preserved in the archives of the National Library of Ireland and the National Museum of Ireland.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "27837628", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27837628", "title": "Gaston Bonet-Maury", "text": "Gaston Bonet-Maury\n\nAmy Gaston Charles Auguste Bonet-Maury (2 January 1842, Paris – 20 June 1919, Paris) was a French Protestant historian.\n\nHe studied at the University of Strassburg, graduating 1867, then was a Protestant pastor at Dordrecht, 1869–1872; followed by Beauvais, 1872–1876, and St. Denis, 1877. He then became lecturer, then professor of church history at the newly opened Protestant Faculty of Theology in Paris in the buildings of the Collège Rollin.\n\nHe was fluent in English and maintained cordial links with the British & Foreign Unitarian Association, who on publication of his \"Des origines du christianisme unitaire chez les Anglais\" in 1881 commissioned an English translation. In June 1901, he received an honorary doctorate of Divinity from the University of Glasgow.\n\n"}
{"id": "4460840", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4460840", "title": "High-tech architecture", "text": "High-tech architecture\n\nHigh-tech architecture, also known as Structural Expressionism, is a type of Late Modern architectural style that emerged in the 1970s, incorporating elements of high-tech industry and technology into building design. High-tech architecture appeared as revamped modernism, an extension of those previous ideas helped by even more technological advances. This category serves as a bridge between modernism and post-modernism; however, there remain gray areas as to where one category ends and the other begins. In the 1980s, high-tech architecture became more difficult to distinguish from post-modern architecture. Some of its themes and ideas were later absorbed into the style of Neo-Futurism art and architectural movement.\n\nLike Brutalism, Structural Expressionist buildings reveal their structure on the outside as well as the inside, but with visual emphasis placed on the internal steel and/or concrete skeletal structure as opposed to exterior concrete walls. In buildings such as the Pompidou Centre, this idea of revealed structure is taken to the extreme, with apparently structural components serving little or no structural role. In this case, the use of \"structural\" steel is a stylistic or aesthetic matter.\n\nThe style's premier practitioners include Colombo-American architect Bruce Graham and Bangladeshi-American architect Fazlur Rahman Khan for the John Hancock Centre, Willis Tower and Onterie Center, British architects Norman, Lord Foster, Richard, Lord Rogers, Sir Michael Hopkins, Italian architect Renzo Piano, and Spanish architect Santiago Calatrava, known for his organic, skeleton-like designs. Early high-tech buildings were referred to by historian Reyner Banham as \"serviced sheds\" due to their exposure of mechanical services in addition to the structure. Most of these early examples used exposed structural steel as their material of choice. As hollow structural sections had only become widely available in the early 1970s, high-tech architecture saw much experimentation with this material.\n\nBuildings in this architectural style were constructed mainly in North America and Europe. It is deeply connected with what is called the Second School of Chicago which emerged after World War II. The main content is that the technological kind of construction, mostly with steel and glass, is expressed in a formal independent way to gain aesthetic qualities from it. The first proper example are the 860-880 Lake Shore Drive Apartments by German architect Ludwig Mies van der Rohe.\n\nThe style got its name from the book \"High Tech: The Industrial Style and Source Book for The Home\", written by design journalists Joan Kron and Suzanne Slesin and published in November 1978 by Clarkson N. Potter, New York. The book, illustrated with hundreds of photos, showed how designers, architects, and homeowners were appropriating classic industrial objects—library shelving, chemical glass, metal deck plate, restaurant supply, factory and airport runway light fixtures, movers' quilts, industrial carpeting etc.—found in industrial catalogues and putting these to use in residential settings. The foreword to the book by architect Emilio Ambasz, former curator of design at the Museum of Modern Art, put the trend in historical context.\n\nAs a result of the publicity and popularity of the book, the decorating style became known as \"High-Tech\", and accelerated the entry of the still-obscure term \"high-tech\" into everyday language. In 1979, the term high-tech appeared for the first time in a \"New Yorker\" magazine cartoon showing a woman berating her husband for not being high-tech enough: \"You're middle-, middle-, middle-tech.\" After \"Esquire\" excerpted Kron and Slesin's book in six installments, mainstream retailers across the United States, beginning with Macy's New York, started featuring high-tech decor in windows and in furniture departments. But credit should go to a shop on 64th Street and Lexington Avenue in New York, Ad Hoc Housewares, which opened in 1977, for marketing these objects to a residential audience before anyone else. The book went on to be reprinted in England, France, and Japan, and like the original, each edition included a directory of local sources for the objects.\n\nThe high-tech architecture was, in some ways, a response to growing disillusionment with modern architecture. The realization of Le Corbusier's urban development plans led to cities with monotonous and standardized buildings. Enthusiasm for economic building led to extremely low-quality finishes, with subsequent degradation countering a now-waning aesthetic novelty. High-tech architecture created a new aesthetic in contrast with standard modern architecture. In \"High Tech: The Industrial Style and Source Book for The Home\", when discussing the high-tech aesthetic, the authors emphasized using elements \"your parents might find insulting\". This humor so aptly demonstrates the rebellious attitude.\n\nKron and Slesin further explain the term \"high-tech\" as one being used in architectural circles to describe an increasing number of residences and public buildings with a \"nuts-and-bolts, exposed-pipes, technological look\". A prime example of this is the Centre Pompidou in Paris. This highlights one of the aims of high-tech architecture, to show the technical elements of the building by externalizing them. Thus, the technical aspects create the building's aesthetic.\n\nFor interior design, there was a trend of using formerly industrial appliances as household objects, e.g. chemical beakers as vases for flowers. This was because of an aim to use an industrial aesthetic. This was assisted by the conversion of former industrial spaces into residential spaces. High-tech architecture aimed to give everything an industrial appearance.\n\nAnother aspect to the aims of high-tech architecture was that of a renewed belief in the power of technology to improve the world. This is especially evident in Kenzo Tange's plans for technically sophisticated buildings in Japan's post-war boom in the 1960s, but few of these plans actually became buildings.\nHigh-tech architecture aimed to achieve a new industrial aesthetic, spurred on by the renewed faith in the progression of technology.\n\nBut however prominent the industrial look appeared, the functional element of modern architecture was very much retained. The pieces still served a purpose in the building's function. The function of the building was also aimed as not being set. This dynamic property means that a building should be a \"catalyst\", the \"technical services are provided but do not become set.\"\n\nStructures of high-tech architecture have varied somewhat, yet all have accentuated technical elements. They included the prominent display of the building's technical and functional components, and an orderly arrangement and use of pre-fabricated elements. Glass walls and steel frames were also immensely popular.\n\nTo boast technical features, they were externalized, often along with load-bearing structures. There can be no more illustrious example than Pompidou Centre. The ventilation ducts are all prominently shown on the outside. This was a radical design, as previous ventilation ducts would have been a component hidden on the inside of the building. The means of access to the building is also on the outside, with the large tube allowing visitors to enter the building.\n\nThe orderly and logical fashion in which buildings in the high-tech architectural style are designed to keep to their functional essence is demonstrated in Norman Foster's Hong Kong and Shanghai Bank HQ. Besides the technology being the overriding feature of the building, its design is very much functionally orientated. The large interior open space and the easy access to all floors enhance the function of being a bank. Also, the elements of the buildings are very neatly composed to achieve optimal orderliness in order to logically solve the problem of the needs of a bank. This can be seen in the levels' structure and in the escalators.\n\nHigh-tech buildings make persistent use of glass curtain walls and steel structure. They are greatly indebted to modern architecture for this, and are influenced by Mies van der Rohe's highrise buildings. Bruce Graham's Willis Tower demonstrated that with glass walls and skeleton pipe structure of steel, a very tall building could be built. \n\nMany high-tech buildings meant their purposes to be dynamic. This could best be explained by Günther Behnisch and Frei Otto's Munich Olympic Stadium. This structure made sport in the open possible and is meant to be used for many purposes. Originally an abandoned airfield, it is now a sports stadium, used for various disciplines.\n\nBuildings designed in this style usually consist of a clear glass façade, with the building's network of support beams exposed behind it. Perhaps the most famous and easily recognized building built in this style is I.M. Pei's Bank of China Tower in Hong Kong. The World Trade Center in New York City, although generally considered to be an International Style building, was technically a Structural Expressionist design due to its load-bearing steel frame.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1348842", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1348842", "title": "History of Hindustani", "text": "History of Hindustani\n\nHindustani (Hindi: हिंदुस्तानी Urdu: ) is one of the predominant languages of South Asia, with federal status in India and Pakistan in its standardized forms of Hindi and Urdu. It is widely spoken and understood as a second language in Nepal, Bangladesh, Sri Lanka and the Persian Gulf and as such is considered a lingua franca in the Indian subcontinent. It is also one of the most widely spoken languages in the world by total number of speakers.\nIt developed in North India, principally during the Mughal Empire, when the Persian language exerted a strong influence on the Western Hindi languages of central India. This led to the creation of \"Rekhta\", or \"mixed\" speech, which came to be known as Hindustani, Hindi, Hindavi, and Urdu (derived from \"Zabaan-i-Ordu\" meaning \"language of the Horde\".) This form was elevated to the status of a literary language, and after the partition of British India and independence this collection of dialects became the basis for modern standard Hindi and Urdu. Although these official languages are distinct registers with regards to their formal aspects, such as modern technical vocabulary, they continue to be all but indistinguishable in their vernacular forms.\n\nMost of the grammar and basic vocabulary of Hindustani descends directly from the medieval language of central India, known as \"Śauraseni\". After the tenth century, several \"Śauraseni\" dialects were elevated to literary languages, or \"khari boli\" (\"standing dialects\"), including Braj Bhasha, Awadhi and the language of Delhi (the latter still goes by the name \"Khari Boli\" in the rural areas outside the city of Delhi itself). During the reigns of the Turko-Afghan Delhi Sultanate and the Mughal Empire, where Persian was adopted as the official language and Delhi was established as the capital, the imperial court and concomitant immigration infused the Delhi dialect with large numbers of Persian, Arabic, and Chagatai words from the court; the introduced words were primarily nouns and were employed for cultural, legal and political concepts. The new court language developed simultaneously in Delhi and Lucknow, the latter of which is in an Awadhi-speaking area; and thus, modern Hindustani has a noticeable Awadhi influence even though it is primarily based on \"Khari Boli\".\n\nThe term \"Hindustani\" is derived from Hindustan, the Persian-origin name for the northwestern subcontinent. The term \"Ordu,\" or \"camp language\" (cognate with the English word, \"horde\"), was used to describe the common language of the Mughal army. The works of the 13th century scholar Amir Khusro are typical of the Hindustani language of the time:\n\n<poem>\n\n</poem>\n\nThe language went by several names over the years: \"Hindavi\" (\"of Hindus or Indians\"), \"Dahlavi\" (\"of Delhi\"), \"Hindustani\" (\"of Hindustan\") and \"Hindi\" (\"Indian\"). The Mughal Emperor Shah Jahan built a new walled city in Delhi in 1639 that came to be known as Shahjahanabad. The market close to the royal fort (the Red Fort) was called \"Urdu Bazar\" (\"Army/camp Market\", from the Turkic word \"ordu\", \"army\"), and it may be from this that the phrase \"Zaban-e-Urdu\" (\"the language of the army/camp\") derives. This was shortened to \"Urdu\" around the year 1800. The language spread from the interaction of Persian-speaking Muslim soldiers to the local people who spoke varieties of Hindi. Soon, the Persian script in the cursive Nasta'liq form was adopted, with additional letters to accommodate the Indian phonetic system. Large number of Persian words were adopted, as were even grammatical elements such as the enclitic \"ezāfe\".\n\nThe official language of the Ghurids, Delhi Sultanate, the Mughal Empire, and their successor states, as well as their language of poetry and literature, was Persian, while the official language of religion was Arabic. Most of the sultans and the nobility of the sultanate period were Turkic peoples from Central Asia who spoke Chagatai as their mother tongue. The Mughals were also Chagatai, but later adopted Persian. The basis in general for the introduction of Persian language into the subcontinent was set, from its earliest days, by various Persianized Central Asian Turkic and Afghan dynasties. Muzaffar Alam asserts that Persian became the lingua franca of the empire under Akbar for various political and social factors due to its non-sectarian and fluid nature. However, the armies, merchants, preachers, Sufis, and later the court, also incorporated the local people and elements of the medieval Hindu literary language, Braj Bhasha. This new contact language soon incorporated other dialects, such as Haryanvi, Panjabi, and in the 17th century Khariboli, the dialect of the new capital at Delhi. By 1800, Khariboli had become the dominant base of the language.\n\nWhen Wali Mohammed Wali arrived in Delhi, he established Hindustani with a light smattering of Persian words, a register called Rekhta, for poetry; previously the language of poetry had been Persian. When the Delhi Sultanate expanded south to the Deccan Plateau, they carried their literary language with them, and it was influenced there by more southerly languages, producing the Dakhini dialect. During this time Hindustani was the language of both Hindus and Muslims. The communal nature of the language lasted until the British Raj, when in 1837 Hindustani in the Persian script (i.e. Urdu) replaced Persian as the official language and was made co-official along with English. This triggered a Hindu backlash in northwestern India, which argued that the language should be written in the native Devanagari script. This literary standard, called simply \"Hindi\", replaced Hindustani/Urdu as the official register of Bihar in 1881, establishing a sectarian divide of \"Urdu\" for Muslims and \"Hindi\" for Hindus, a divide that was formalized with the independence of India and Pakistan after the withdrawal of the British.\n\nThe poet Wali Deccani (1667–1707) visited Delhi in 1700. His Rekhta or Hindavi \"ghazals\" established Hindustani as a medium of poetic expression in the imperial city. Hindustani soon gained distinction as the preferred language in courts of India and eventually replaced Persian among the nobles. To this day, Rekhta retains an important place in literary and cultural spheres. Many distinctly Persian forms of literature, such as ghazals and \"nazms,\" came to both influence and be affected by Indian culture, producing a distinct melding of Middle Eastern and South Asian heritages. A famous cross-over writer was Amir Khusro, whose Persian and Hindavi couplets are read to this day in the subcontinent. Persian has sometimes been termed an adopted classical language of South Asia alongside Sanskrit due to this role.\n\n\n\nIslamic empires in India in the late Medieval to Early Modern period.\n\n\nModern Hindi literature emerges during the Colonial period.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "34627687", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34627687", "title": "History of the Jews in Verpelét", "text": "History of the Jews in Verpelét\n\nJews lived in the northern Hungarian town of Verpelét and the surrounding Heves county from the 15th century or earlier up to the late 17th century, after which they were excluded from the area. During the 19th century the Jewish population increased in the area, with 174 living in the town itself in 1880. Hungary's only wooden synagogue was in Verpelét. Jewish students also travelled in to study at the yeshiva established there in the early 20th century, which was closed down by the government in 1942. In 1944 under the German occupation the Jews of the area were sent for forced labour or killed at Auschwitz; only eleven returned to the town, and the synagogue has been converted for other use.\n\nVerpelét (Yiddish: ווערפעלעט) is a small town in Heves county, Northern Hungary, east of the Mátra Mountains, 31 miles SW of Miskolc, and 8 miles WSW of Eger.\n\nThe first indication of the settlement of Jews in Heves county is from written documents, dating back to the 15th century. The Verpelét Jewish cemetery, which has been preserved, contains some 40 graves, the oldest of which dates back to 1628.\n\nIn the 16th–17th century, under the rule of the Ottoman Empire, Hungarian Jews lived under relatively safe conditions enjoying religious tolerance, though there is no record of Jews living in Verpelét during that time. After the Battle of Mohács (1687), Jews were generally driven out of Hungary and presumably the same was the case with the Jews of Verpelét.\n\nUnder the Habsburg Monarchy, Jews were discriminated against, and amongst many restrictions, were not allowed to live near mining towns or in Heves county.\n\nStarting in 1816, the seat district of Eger published bulletins from which one learns of the dramatic increase of Jewish presence in the Heves and Külső-Szolnok counties.\n\nAccordingly, the census of Jews in the counties of Heves and Külső-Szolnok:\n\nIn 1840, the Jews of Verpelét numbered 139 persons, Rabbi Zev Wolf Tannenbaum (1787–1873) was Rabbi of Verpelet at this time (as seen in his authored book \"Kirya N’emana\" printed in 1850). This indicates that the Jews had formed a formal community and framework. His grandson Rabbi Moshe Tannenbaum (1850–1916) succeeded him there as rabbi.\n\nThe Austro-Hungarian Compromise of 1867 facilitated the Jewish emancipation by the new Hungarian Parliament and heralded a golden era for Hungarian Jewry, politically, economically and culturally. This lasted until World War I.\n\nIn 1880, 174 Jews lived in Verpelét.\n\nFrom documented records, it may be noted that Jews in the Heves area were an accepted and respected part of the population and engaged in labor, commerce and education as equal and prominent citizens.\n\nThe beginning of World War I broke this peaceful period for the Jewish communities. In 1918 Jewish properties were looted and the archives destroyed, and the looting continued during the White Terror from 1919-1921. The pogroms against the Jews during these revolutionary times made their situation harsh.\n\nMore than a hundred Jewish soldiers from Heves county took part in the battles of World War I. Many died in action and countless returned crippled.\n\nSeemingly, the years thereafter were peaceful, and Jews continued to live there, freely participating in commerce and religious practice.\n\nIn 1931, 146 Jews lived in Verpelét. They maintained a synagogue, a school, and a Yeshiva or religious study centre founded by Rabbi Yosef Asher Pollack (1888–1944) (author of \"She'eris Yosef Asher\"). In 1935, the Yeshiva students numbered over 100 boys, most of whom had come from nearby towns. These boys ate their meals at the homes of the local Jews. Samuel Feuerstein (1894–1983) of Massachusetts, United States, donated funds for a new building which housed the Beth Midrash and a dormitory. Each dormitory room had been built with a sink and shower, though the town still did not have a plumbing system and water was drawn from pumps.\n\nThe laying of the cornerstone ceremony for this yeshiva took place with the participation of scores of leading area chief rabbis, as well as hundreds of former yeshiva students, and thousands of Jews from cities in the immediate area. Notable amongst attendees was Rabbi Moshe Sofer (II) of Eger, whose two sons learned at the yeshiva.\n\nThe German occupation brought a radical turning point to the Jews of Verpelét. The yeshiva was closed by governmental decree in 1942, and many of the students were conscripted into forced labor battalions.\n\nOn 26 April 1944, the Nazis confined some 6,601 persons from the Heves County to various ghettos in the area. Between 8 and 13 May, the Jews of Verpelét were moved to the deserted Bagólyuk mining area, near Szúcs. They were housed there in the abandoned workers' quarters.\n\nAt the end of May, all men in the ghettos fit to work were selected and transported for labour service. The remaining people, mostly women, children and elderly, were taken to the brickyard at Kerecsend for a few days and then to the Maklár Railway Station. From there, they were transported to the Auschwitz concentration camp.\n\nJewish records cite the date 21 Sivan, 5704 (12 June 1944) as the date Rabbi Yosef Asher Pollack and his wife were killed at Auschwitz. This is the same date recorded for the deaths of Eger residents, Rabbi Shimon Sofer, Rabbi Moshe Sofer (II) and their family.\n\nAccording to the Verpelét town council website, eleven Jews returned after the Holocaust. The former synagogue is now the fire department's storage room. Hungary's only wooden synagogue, which was in Verpelét, was torn down in 1961.\n"}
{"id": "512038", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=512038", "title": "Ibn Juzayy", "text": "Ibn Juzayy\n\nMuhammad ibn Ahmad ibn Juzayy al-Kalbi al-Gharnati (in Arabic, محمد ابن احمد ابن جزي الكلبي الغرناطي) was a scholar, writer of poetry, history, and law from Al-Andalus. He is mainly known as the writer to whom Ibn Battuta dictated an account of his travels. He is also the author of the tafsir \"al-Tashil li Ulum al-Tanzil (This is his father's (Abu al-Qasim) tafsir)\". Ibn Juzayy was the son of Abú-l-Qásim Muhammad Ibn Juzayy (the panegyrist of Abú-l-Hayyáy Yúsuf of Granada) who died in the Battle of Rio Salado in 1340.\n\nIbn Juzayy wrote the Rihla of Ibn Battuta in 1352-55. It is clear that he copied passages from previous works such as the description of Medina from the Rihla of Ibn Jubayr and the description of Palestine by Mohammed al-Abdari al-Hihi. \n\nHis father, Imām Abū al-Qāsim Muḥammad ibn Aḥmad ibn Juzayy al-Kalbī al-Gharnāṭī al-Mālikī (693/1294 – 741/1340), wrote many religious works such as his \"al-Qawanin al-Fiqhiyyah\" or \"The Laws of Jurisprudence\" a comparative manual of the jurisprudence of the four Sunni madhhabs (Maliki, Hanafi, Shafi`i, Hanbali) with emphasis on the Maliki school and notices of the views of the Ẓāhirī school and others. His father is also noted for his tafsir of the Qur'an, his book on legal theory \"Taqrīb al-Wuṣūl ‘ilā ‘Ilm al-Uṣūl\" or \"The Nearest of Paths to the Knowledge of the Fundamentals of Islamic Jurisprudence\", which he wrote for his son, as well as his treatise on Sufism based on the Qur'an, \"The Refinement of the Hearts\". It is a mistake to say that one of Abū al-Qāsim ibn Juzayy's teachers was Ibn Rushd al-Ḥafīd (the grandson) Averroes (1126 – 1198), the author of \"Bidāyat al-Mujtahid\" and grandson of Abu Al-Walid Muhammad bin Rushd al-Jadd (the grandfather) (d. 1126), the noted Maliki Qadi.\n\nHe died in Fez in 1357 two years after the completion of the Rihla of Ibn Battuta.\n\n"}
{"id": "6152834", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6152834", "title": "Influences on Karl Marx", "text": "Influences on Karl Marx\n\nInfluences on Karl Marx are generally thought to have been derived from three sources, namely German idealist philosophy, French socialism and English and Scottish political economy.\n\nImmanuel Kant is believed to have had the greatest influence of any philosopher of modern times. Kantian philosophy was the basis on which the structure of Marxism was built—particularly as it was developed by Georg Wilhelm Friedrich Hegel. Hegel's dialectical method, which was taken up by Karl Marx, was an extension of the method of reasoning by antinomies that Kant used.\n\nBy the time of his death, Hegel was the most prominent philosopher in Germany. His views were widely taught and his students were highly regarded. His followers soon divided into right-wing and left-wing Hegelians. Theologically and politically, the right-wing Hegelians offered a conservative interpretation of his work. They emphasized the compatibility between Hegel's philosophy and Christianity. Politically, they were orthodox. The left-wing Hegelians eventually moved to an atheistic position. In politics, many of them became revolutionaries. This historically important left-wing group included Ludwig Feuerbach, Bruno Bauer, Friedrich Engels and Marx himself. They were often referred to as the Young Hegelians.\n\nMarx's view of history, which came to be called historical materialism, is certainly influenced by Hegel's claim that reality and history should be viewed dialectically. Hegel believed that the direction of human history is characterized in the movement from the fragmentary toward the complete and the real (which was also a movement towards greater and greater rationality). Sometimes, Hegel explained that this progressive unfolding of the Absolute involves gradual, evolutionary accretion, but at other times requires discontinuous, revolutionary leaps—episodal upheavals against the existing \"status quo\". For example, Hegel strongly opposed slavery in the United States during his lifetime and envisioned a time when Christian nations would radically eliminate it from their civilization.\n\nWhile Marx accepted this broad conception of history, Hegel was an idealist and Marx sought to rewrite dialectics in materialist terms. He summarized the materialistic aspect of his theory of history in the 1859 preface to \"A Contribution to the Critique of Political Economy\": In the social production of their existence, men inevitably enter into definite relations, which are independent of their will, namely relations of production appropriate to a given stage in the development of their material forces of production. The totality of these relations of production constitutes the economic structure of society, the real foundation, on which arises a legal and political superstructure and to which correspond definite forms of social consciousness. The mode of production of material life conditions the general process of social, political and intellectual life. It is not the consciousness of men that determines their existence, but their social existence that determines their consciousness.\n\nIn this brief popularization of his ideas, Marx emphasized that social development sprang from the inherent contradictions within material life and the social superstructure. This notion is often understood as a simple historical narrative: primitive communism had developed into slave states. Slave states had developed into feudal societies. Those societies in turn became capitalist states and those states would be overthrown by the self-conscious portion of their working class, or proletariat, creating the conditions for socialism and ultimately a higher form of communism than that with which the whole process began. Marx illustrated his ideas most prominently by the development of capitalism from feudalism and by the prediction of the development of communism from capitalism.\n\nLudwig Feuerbach was a German philosopher and anthropologist. Feuerbach proposed that people should interpret social and political thought as their foundation and their material needs. He held that an individual is the product of their environment and that the whole consciousness of a person is the result of the interaction of sensory organs and the external world. Marx and Engels saw in Feuerbach's emphasis on people and human needs a movement toward a materialistic interpretation of society. In \"The Essence of Christianity\" (1841), Feuerbach argued that God is really a creation of man and that the qualities people attribute to God are really qualities of humanity. Accordingly, Marx argued that it is the material world that is real and that our ideas of it are consequences, not causes, of the world. Thus, like Hegel and other philosophers, Marx distinguished between appearances and reality. However, he did not believe that the material world hides from us the real world of the ideal; on the contrary, he thought that historically and socially specific ideology prevented people from seeing the material conditions of their lives clearly.\n\nWhat distinguished Marx from Feuerbach was his view of Feuerbach's humanism as excessively abstract and so no less ahistorical and idealist than what it purported to replace, namely the reified notion of God found in institutional Christianity that legitimized the repressive power of the Prussian state. Instead, Marx aspired to give ontological priority to what he called the real life process of real human beings as he and Engels said in \"The German Ideology\" (1846): In direct contrast to German philosophy, which descends from heaven to earth, here we ascend from earth to heaven. That is to say, we do not set out from what men say, imagine, conceive, nor from men as narrated, thought of, imagined, conceived, in order to arrive at men in the flesh. We set out from real, active men, and on the basis of their real life process we demonstrate the development of the ideological reflexes and echoes of this life process. The phantoms formed in the human brain are also, necessarily, sublimates of their material life process, which is empirically verifiable and bound to material premises. Morality, religion, metaphysics, all the rest of ideology and their corresponding forms of consciousness, thus no longer retain the semblance of independence. They have no history, no development; but men, developing their material production and their material intercourse, alter, along with this, their real existence, their thinking, and the products of their thinking. Life is not determined by consciousness, but consciousness by life.\n\nIn his \"Theses on Feuerbach\" (1844), he also writes that \"the philosophers have only interpreted the world, in various ways, the point is to change it\". This opposition between firstly various subjective interpretations given by philosophers, which may be in a sense compared with \"Weltanschauung\" designed to legitimize the current state of affairs; and secondly, the effective transformation of the world through praxis, which combines theory and practice in a materialist way, is what distinguishes Marxist philosophers from the rest of philosophers. Indeed, Marx's break with German idealism involves a new definition of philosophy as Louis Althusser, founder of structural Marxism in the 1960s, would define it as class struggle in theory. Marx's movement away from university philosophy and towards the workers' movement is thus inextricably linked to his rupture with his earlier writings, which pushed Marxist commentators to speak of a young Marx and a mature Marx, although the nature of this cut poses problems. A year before the Revolutions of 1848, Marx and Engels thus wrote \"The Communist Manifesto\", which was prepared to an imminent revolution and ended with the famous cry: \"Proletarians of all countries, unite!\". However, Marx's thought changed again following Louis-Napoleon Bonaparte's 2 December 1851 coup, which put an end to the French Second Republic and created the Second Empire which would last until the 1870 Franco-Prussian War. Marx thereby modified his theory of alienation exposed in the \"Economic and Philosophical Manuscripts of 1844\" and would latter arrive to his theory of commodity fetishism, exposed in the first chapter of the first book of \"Das Kapital\" (1867). This abandonment of the early theory of alienation would be amply discussed, several Marxist theorists, including Marxist humanists such as the Praxis School, would return to it. Others such as Althusser would claim that the epistemological break between the young Marx and the mature Marx was such that no comparisons could be done between both works, marking a shift to a scientific theory of society.\n\nMarx did not study directly with Hegel, but after Hegel's death he studied under one of Hegel's pupils, Bruno Bauer, a leader of the circle of Young Hegelians to whom Marx attached himself. However, Marx and Engels came to disagree with Bauer and the rest of the Young Hegelians about socialism and also about the usage of Hegel's dialectic. From 1841, the young Marx progressively broke away from German idealism and the Young Hegelians. Along with Engels, who observed the Chartist movement in the United Kingdom, he cut away with the environment in which he grew up and encountered the proletariat in France and Germany.\n\nHe then wrote a scathing criticism of the Young Hegelians in two books, \"The Holy Family\" (1845) and \"The German Ideology\" in which he criticized not only Bauer, but also Max Stirner's \"The Ego and Its Own\" (1844), considered as one of the founding book of individualist anarchism. Stirner claimed that all ideals were inherently alienating and that replacing God by the humanity—as did Ludwig Feuerbach in \"The Essence of Christianity\"—was not sufficient. According to Stirner, any ideals, God, humanity, the nation, or even the revolution alienated the Ego. In \"The Poverty of Philosophy\" (1845), Marx also criticized Pierre-Joseph Proudhon, who had become famous with his cry \"Property is theft!\".\n\nMarx's early writings are thus a response towards Hegel, German idealism and a break with the rest of the Young Hegelians. Marx stood Hegel on his head in his own view of his role by turning the idealistic dialectic into a materialistic one in proposing that material circumstances shape ideas instead of the other way around. In this, Marx was following the lead of Feuerbach. His theory of alienation, developed in the \"Economic and Philosophical Manuscripts of 1844\" (published in 1932), inspired itself from Feuerbach's critique of the alienation of man in God through the objectivation of all his inherent characteristics (thus man projected on God all qualities which are in fact man's own quality which defines human nature). Marx also criticized Feuerbach for being insufficiently materialistic—as Stirner himself had point out—and explained that the alienation described by the Young Hegelians was in fact the result of the structure of the economy itself. Furthermore, he criticized Feuerbach's conception of human nature in his sixth thesis on Feuerbach as an abstract \"kind\" which incarnated itself in each singular individual: \"Feuerbach resolves the essence of religion into the essence of man [\"menschliche Wesen\", human nature]. But the essence of man is no abstraction inherent in each single individual. In reality, it is the ensemble of the social relations\". Thereupon, instead of founding itself on the singular, concrete individual subject as did classic philosophy, including contractualism (Thomas Hobbes, John Locke and Jean-Jacques Rousseau), but also political economy, Marx began with the totality of social relations: labour, language and all which constitute our human existence. He claimed that individualism was an essence the result of commodity fetishism or alienation. Although some critics have claimed that meant that Marx enforced a strict social determinism which destroyed the possibility of free will, Marx's philosophy in no way can be reduced to such determinism as his own personal trajectory makes clear.\n\nIn 1844–1845, when Marx was starting to settle his account with Hegel and the Young Hegelians in his writings, he critiqued the Young Hegelians for limiting the horizon of their critique to religion and not taking up the critique of the state and civil society as paramount. Indeed, by the look of Marx's writings in that period (most famous of which is the \"Economic and Philosophical Manuscripts of 1844\", a text that most explicitly elaborated his theory of alienation), Marx's thinking could have taken at least three possible courses, namely the study of law, religion and the state, the study of natural philosophy and the study of political economy. He chose the last as the predominant focus of his studies for the rest of his life, largely on account of his previous experience as the editor of the newspaper \"Rheinische Zeitung\" on whose pages he fought for freedom of expression against Prussian censorship and made a rather idealist, legal defense for the Moselle peasants' customary right of collecting wood in the forest (this right was at the point of being criminalized and privatized by the state). It was Marx's inability to penetrate beneath the legal and polemical surface of the latter issue to its materialist, economic and social roots that prompted him to critically study political economy.\n\nPolitical economy predates the 20th century division of the two disciplines of politics and economics, treating social relations and economic relations as interwoven. Marx built on and critiqued the most well-known political economists of his day, the British classical political economists.\n\nFrom Adam Smith came the idea that the grounds of property is labour. Marx critiqued Smith and David Ricardo for not realizing that their economic concepts reflected specifically capitalist institutions, not innate natural properties of human society; and therefore could not be applied unchanged to all societies. He proposed a systematic correlation between labour-values and money prices. He claimed that the source of profits under capitalism is value added by workers not paid out in wages. This mechanism operated through the distinction between labour power, which workers freely exchanged for their wages; and labour, over which asset-holding capitalists thereby gained control.\n\nThis practical and theoretical distinction was Marx's primary insight and allowed him to develop the concept of surplus value, which distinguished his works from that of Smith and Ricardo. Workers create enough value during a short period of the working day to pay their wages for that day (necessary labour), yet they continue to work for several more hours and continue to create value (surplus labour). This value is not returned to them, but appropriated by the capitalists (the bourgeoisie). Thus, it is not the capitalist ruling class that creates wealth, but the workers—the capitalists then appropriating this wealth to themselves. Some of Marx's insights were seen in a rudimentary form by the Ricardian socialist school). He developed this theory of exploitation in \"Das Capital\", a dialectical investigation into the forms value relations take.\n\nMarx's theory of business cycles; of economic growth and development, especially in two sector models; and of the declining rate of profit, or crisis theory are other important elements of Marx's political economy. Marx later made tentative movements towards econometric investigations of his ideas, but the necessary statistical techniques of national accounting only emerged in the following century. In any case, it has proved difficult to adapt Marx's economic concepts, which refer to social relations, to measurable aggregated stocks and flows. In recent decades, a loose \"quantitative\" school of Marxist economists has emerged. While it may be impossible to find exact measures of Marx's variables from price data, approximations of basic trends are possible.\n\nRousseau was one of the first modern writers to seriously attack the institution of private property and therefore is sometimes considered a forebear of modern socialism and communism, though Marx rarely mentions Rousseau in his writings. He argued that the goal of government should be to secure freedom, equality and justice for all within the state, regardless of the will of the majority. From Rousseau came the idea of egalitarian democracy.\n\nIn 1833, France was experiencing a number of social problems arising out of the Industrial Revolution. A number of sweeping plans of reform were developed by thinkers on the left. Among the more grandiose were the plans of Charles Fourier and the followers of Henri de Saint-Simon. Fourier wanted to replace modern cities with utopian communities while the Saint-Simonians advocated directing the economy by manipulating credit. Although these programs did not have much support, they did expand the political and social imagination of their contemporaries, including Marx.\n\nProudhon participated in the February 1848 uprising and the composition of what he termed the first republican proclamation of the new republic. However, he had misgivings about the new government because it was pursuing political reform at the expense of the socio-economic reform, which Proudhon considered basic. Proudhon published his own perspective for reform, \"Solution du problème social\", in which he laid out a program of mutual financial cooperation among workers. He believed this would transfer control of economic relations from capitalists and financiers to workers. It was Proudhon's book \"What Is Property?\" that convinced the young Marx that private property should be abolished.\n\nIn one of his first works, \"The Holy Family\", Marx said: \"Not only does Proudhon write in the interest of the proletarians, he is himself a proletarian, an ouvrier. His work is a scientific manifesto of the French proletariat\". However, Marx disagreed with Proudhon's anarchism and later published vicious criticisms of Proudhon. Marx wrote \"The Poverty of Philosophy\" as a refutation of Proudhon's \"The Philosophy of Poverty\" (1847). In his socialism, Proudhon was followed by Mikhail Bakunin. After Bakunin's death, his libertarian socialism diverged into anarcho-communism and collectivist anarchism, with notable proponents such as Peter Kropotkin and Joseph Déjacque.\n\nMarx's revision of Hegelianism was also influenced by Engels' 1845 book, \"The Condition of the Working Class in England\", which led Marx to conceive of the historical dialectic in terms of class conflict and to see the modern working class as the most progressive force for revolution. Thereafter, Marx and Engels worked together for the rest of Marx's life so that the collected works of Marx and Engels are generally published together, almost as if the output of one person. Important publications, such as \"The German Ideology\" and \"The Communist Manifesto\", were joint efforts. Engels says that \"I cannot deny that both before and during my 40 years' collaboration with Marx I had a certain independent share in laying the foundation of the theory, and more particularly in its elaboration\". However, he adds: \n\nIn late November 1859, Engels acquired one of the first 1,250 copies of Charles Darwin's \"The Origin of Species\" and then he sent a letter to Marx telling: \"Darwin, by the way, whom I'm just reading now, is absolutely splendid\". The following year, Marx wrote back to his colleague telling that this book contained the natural-history foundation of the historical materialism viewpoint: \n\nNext month, Marx wrote to his friend Ferdinand Lassalle: \n\nBy June 1862, Marx had already read \"The Origin of Species\" again, finding a connection between Thomas Robert Malthus's work and Darwin's ideas: \n\nIn 1863, he quoted Darwin again within his \"Theories of Surplus Value\" (2:121), saying: \"In his splendid work, Darwin did not realize that by discovering the 'geometrical progression' in the animal and plant kingdom, he overthrew Malthus theory\".\n\nHaving read about darwinian evolution along with Marx, German communist Wilhelm Liebknecht later said that \"when Darwin drew the conclusions from his research work and brought them to the knowledge of the public, we spoke of nothing else for months but Darwin and the enormous significance of his scientific discoveries\". Historian Richard Weikart points out that Marx had started to attend \"a series of lectures by Thomas Henry Huxley on evolution\".\n\nIn August 1866, Marx referred to Pierre Trémaux's \"Origine et transformations de l'homme et des autres êtres\" (1865) in another letter to Engels as \"a very important advance over Darwin\". He went further to claim that \"in its historical and political application\" the book was \"much more important and copious than Darwin\".\n\nAlthough there is no mention of Darwin in \"The Communist Manifesto\" (published eleven years prior to \"The Origin of Species\"), Marx includes two explicit references to Darwin and evolution in the second edition of \"Das Kapital\", in two footnotes where he relates Darwin's theory to his opinion about production and technology development. In the Volume I, Chapter 14: \"The Detail Labourer and his implements\", Section 2, Marx referred to Darwin's \"Origin of Species\" as an \"epoch-making work\" while in Chapter 15, Section I took on the comparison of organs of plants to animals and tools.\n\nIn a book review of the first volume of \"Das Kapital\", Engels wrote that Marx was \"simply striving to establish the same gradual process of transformation demonstrated by Darwin in natural history as a law in the social field\". In this line of thought, several authors such as William F. O'Neill, have seen that \"Marx describes history as a social Darwinist 'survival of the fittest' dominated by the conflict between different social classes\" and moving to a future in which social conflict will ultimately disappear in a 'classless society'\" while some Marxists try to dissociate Marx from social Darwinism.\n\nNonetheless, it is evident that Marx had a strong liking for Darwin's theory and a clear influence on his thought. Furthermore, when the second German edition of \"Das Capital\", was published (two years after the publication of Darwin's \"Descent of Man, and Selection in Relation to Sex\"), Marx sent Darwin a copy of his book with the following words: \n\nDarwin wrote back to Marx in October, thanking him for having sent his work and saying \"I believe that we both earnestly desire the extension of knowledge\".\n\nAccording to scholar Paul Heyer, \"Marx believed that Darwin provided a materialistic perspective compatible with his own\", although being applied in another context. In his book \"Darwin in Russian Thought\" (1989), Alexander Vucinich claims that \"Engels gave Marx credit for extending Darwin's theory to the study of the inner dynamics and change in human society\".\n\nMarx was influenced by classical materialism, especially Epicurus (to whom Marx dedicated his thesis \"Difference of Natural Philosophy Between Democritus and Epicurus\", 1841) for his materialism and theory of clinamen which opened up a realm of liberty.\n\nMarx drew on Lewis H. Morgan and his social evolution theory. He wrote a collection of notebooks from his reading of Morgan, but they are regarded as being quite obscure and only available in scholarly editions.\n"}
{"id": "4475161", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4475161", "title": "James S. Shapiro", "text": "James S. Shapiro\n\nJames S. Shapiro (born September 11, 1955) is Professor of English and Comparative Literature at Columbia University who specialises in Shakespeare and the Early Modern period. Shapiro has served on the faculty at Columbia University since 1985, teaching Shakespeare and other topics, and he has published widely on Shakespeare and Elizabethan culture.\n\nShapiro was born and raised in Brooklyn, New York, where he attended Midwood High School. He obtained his B.A. at Columbia University in 1977, Master's degree in 1978 and Ph.D. at University of Chicago in 1982. After teaching at Dartmouth College and Goucher College, Shapiro joined the faculty at Columbia University in 1985. He taught as a Fulbright lecturer at Bar-Ilan University and Tel Aviv University (1988–1989) and served as the Samuel Wanamaker Fellow at the Globe Theatre in London (1998).\n\nShapiro has received awards from the National Endowment for the Humanities, The Huntington Library, and the Memorial Foundation for Jewish Culture for his publications and academic activities. He has written for numerous periodicals, including \"The Chronicle of Higher Education\", \"The New York Times Book Review\", \"The Financial Times\", and \"The Daily Telegraph\". In 2006, he was named a John Simon Guggenheim Memorial Foundation Fellow as well as a Fellow at the Cullman Center for Scholars and Writers at the New York Public Library.\n\nShapiro won the 2006 Samuel Johnson Prize as well as the 2006 Theatre Book Prize for his work \"1599: a Year in the Life of William Shakespeare\". He also won the 2011 George Freedley Memorial Award, given by the Theatre Library Association, for his study of the Shakespeare authorship question, \"Contested Will: Who Wrote Shakespeare?\", which has been described as the \"definitive treatment\" of the Oxfordian theory. The same year Shapiro was inducted into the American Academy of Arts and Sciences. His most recent book, \"The Year of Lear: Shakespeare in 1606,\" was awarded the James Tait Black Prize for Biography as well as the Sheridan Morley Prize for Theatre Biography. He is currently at work on a book about Shakespeare in a divided America. \n\nHe is married, has a son, and lives in New York City.\n\n\nShapiro presented a three-part series on BBC Four called \"The King & the Playwright: A Jacobean History\" about Shakespeare, King James VI and I and the Jacobean era.\n\n"}
{"id": "8628537", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8628537", "title": "Leiden Conventions", "text": "Leiden Conventions\n\nThe Leiden Conventions are an established set of rules, symbols, and brackets used to indicate the condition of an epigraphic or papyrological text in a modern edition. In previous centuries of classical scholarship, scholars who published texts from inscriptions, papyri, or manuscripts used divergent conventions to indicate the condition of the text and editorial corrections or restorations. The Leiden meeting was designed to help to redress this confusion.\n\nThe earliest form of the Conventions was agreed at a meeting of classical scholars at the University of Leiden in 1931 and published in an article shortly thereafter. There are minor variations in the use of the Conventions between epigraphy and papyrology (and even between Greek and Latin epigraphy). More recently, scholars have published improvements and adjustments to the system.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "42108879", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42108879", "title": "List of archives in Thailand", "text": "List of archives in Thailand\n\nThis is list of archives in Thailand.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1954898", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1954898", "title": "Madonna on Late Show with David Letterman in 1994", "text": "Madonna on Late Show with David Letterman in 1994\n\nMadonna made an appearance on \"Late Show with David Letterman\" on March 31, 1994. The appearance was noted for an extremely controversial series of statements and antics by Madonna, which included many expletives. In particular, Madonna said the word \"fuck\" fourteen times during the course of the interview. This made the episode the most censored in American network television talk-show history while at the same time garnering Letterman some of the best ratings he ever received.\n\nMadonna's language and behavior—which was provocative, seemingly spontaneous at times, full of double entendres, and ended with a playful refusal to leave the set—caused a large public controversy. The Federal Communications Commission received numerous complaints about the language used on the show, echoing Letterman's (sarcastic) remark that she had to stop using the bad language \"because people don't want that in their own homes at 11:30 at night\".\n\nThis was not Madonna's first or last appearance with Letterman. She was a guest on \"Late Night with David Letterman\" in 1988 with comedian Sandra Bernhard. This was, however, her first appearance since Letterman moved from NBC to CBS in 1993.\n\nWhen Madonna was a guest on the March 31, 1994 edition of \"The Late Show\", it marked her first appearance on American television that year. \nLetterman introduced Madonna right before she entered the set in this manner:\n\nPaul Shaffer responded \"she's your \"guest\"!...Come on, she's your \"guest\"!\" to which Letterman responded, \"everything's fine, just relax, will ya?\" Madonna then entered the stage to the sound of her 1983 hit \"Holiday\", clutching a pair of her underwear, which she asked Letterman to smell during the interview. \"Wait a minute, aren't you gonna smell them?\" she said, to which Letterman replied \"I'll take care of that later,\" and Madonna complained to the audience \"I gave him my underpants and he won't smell them!\" This sketch made the headlines of the tabloids. The sketch was satirized in 2001 in the Italian late night show \"Satyricon\", where guest Anna Falchi actually took off her red panties on stage, and the host went all the way to smell them, which caused scandal in Italy.\n\nLetterman, following up from events earlier in the program, asked her to kiss a man in the audience; Madonna refused. Letterman expressed admiration for her not succumbing to the pressure. Madonna began smoking a cigar, and as he moved to another topic, Madonna interrupted him, in an opening salvo soon to be indicative of the random provocations to come: \"Incidentally, you are a sick fuck. I don't know why I get so much shit.\"\n\nLetterman steered his questioning toward her private life and, in particular, the singer's reported relationships with several NBA players. Madonna replied with a series of sexual innuendos, commenting \"that [overhead] microphone is really long\"; Letterman responded by talking about her friendship with Charles Barkley. When Letterman abruptly changed topic and asked about her nose ring in an ambiguous way (\"Did it hurt when you had that thing put in, uh, put in your nose?\"), Madonna laughed and said \"I thought you were going to ask me if it hurt something else...\" which spurred a collective series of nervous laughter from the studio audience.\n\nPrior to the first commercial break (which Madonna objected to, citing that she wanted to \"break the rules\" and not conform to the constraints of American network television), the star asked Letterman if he was wearing a \"rug\"; never missing the opportunity for a joke, the host, referring to Madonna's short slicked-down hairstyle, replied by asking Madonna if she was wearing a swim cap.\n\nAfter the commercial break, Madonna told Letterman that he had changed since her last visit, that he was no longer \"cool\" or challenging to his guests, that \"Money's made you soft.\" Letterman asked her what was really bothering her; the star told the audience that she was angry that the comedian always (in Letterman's words – \"periodically\") made references to her sex life on the show.\nToward the end of the interview, she also asked whether he had ever smoked \"endo,\" a slang reference to marijuana. Looking uncomfortable, the host told the singer that he had no idea what she was talking about; Madonna called him a liar which led Letterman to make light of the embarrassing question by acting like Johnny Carson.\n\nWhen Madonna refused to leave the set, there was jeering from members of the audience, including heckling to \"get off\". The home audience never saw Madonna leave her chair; instead, the show cut to a third commercial break, after which the singer was gone. Letterman said, \"Coming up in the next half hour, Mother Teresa is going to drop by.\" He then looked at an index card and joked, \"Oh, I see we've been canceled, there is no show tomorrow night.\"\n\nAnother guest, who was the United States Grocery Bagging Champion at the time, was scheduled to appear on the show that evening, but his segment was cut, due to Madonna refusing to leave the stage when her interview was over. Counting Crows concluded the show with a performance of \"Round Here\".\n\nMadonna later explained her behavior as a failed attempt to make a stand against television censorship, and made up with Letterman by having him escort her onstage at the 1994 MTV Video Music Awards. In an interview with Bob Guccione, Jr. in \"Spin\" magazine in the fall of 1995, Madonna further defended herself: \nIn a subsequent interview with \"USA Today\", Letterman noted how Madonna sent him a fax on his birthday, shortly after the episode aired. \"It was more of the same,\" he revealed. \"'Happy fucking birthday. Have a nice fucking day.' I know she was trying to be funny about it.\" The fax sent April 12, 1994, reads:\n\"Happy Fucking Birthday Dave!\n\nglad you could get so much mileage out of the fucking show. Next time you need some Fucking publicity, just give me a fucking call.\n\nlove<br>\nthe anti-christ<br>\nM. xx\"\nThe incident was widely referenced in popular culture. For example, in an episode of \"The Critic\" titled \"Sherman, Woman and Child\", Madonna is featured as a profane guest of \"Humphrey the Hippo\", a parody of \"Barney & Friends\". In the \"Space Ghost Coast to Coast\" episode \"Bobcat,\" comedian Bobcat Goldthwait sarcastically comments to the character Moltar that Space Ghost's interview with The Ramones \"is going as well as the Letterman-Madonna interview.\"\n\nLetterman referred to the incident frequently in the short term afterward, usually as a disaster, even though it was a ratings bonanza. In one example, while raising the topic of Madonna's appearance, he added the subordinate clause: \"... or as I call it, Black Thursday ...\"\n\nFollowing the incident, Madonna's appearances on \"Letterman\" did not end. Madonna briefly appeared in a 1995 episode when she brought Letterman candy and flowers for Valentine's Day. She then proclaimed that, \"I'm a changed woman since I met you,\" to which Letterman excitedly exclaimed, \"Yes!\" Madonna then went on to add, \"And I'm not going to say 'fuck' anymore.\" And in 1998, Madonna appeared briefly to announce number three on Letterman's top ten list that night – \"Ten Things Beautiful Women Love About Dave.\"\n\nMadonna returned on November 3, 2000, for her first sit-down interview with Letterman since the notorious 1994 incident to promote her new album, \"Music\". The two of them discussed the previous interview, with a deal of humor and objectivity. Madonna chalked it up as a part of her \"rebellious period\", while Letterman admitted that he now understood how beaten up Madonna must have felt by the press during that time and that he contributed to that. Madonna then concluded that they were both having a \"weak moment\", which was met by laughter from both the audience and Letterman. Before the singer took stage to perform her latest single, \"Don't Tell Me\", Letterman jokingly admitted that, \"I still have the panties. We had to put them in the vault upstairs, because people were trying to swipe them from me.\" An uncomfortable Madonna declared that, \"I won't rise to that bait.\"\n\nMadonna guested again on November 11, 2003 to promote her children's book, \"Mr. Peabody's Apples\". Before she entered, Letterman stated he \"just didn't want any awkward moments.\"\n\nOn January 11, 2007, Madonna appeared on Letterman to promote her latest movie, \"Arthur and the Invisibles\". The two joked about the 1994 infamous episode. When David asked Madonna, \"What do you think about all these celebrities such as Britney Spears, not wearing their underwear?\", Madonna replied, \"It's freezing outside. Maybe you can give them to Britney.\"\n\nMadonna appeared for the last time on September 30, 2009 to promote her latest release, the greatest hits compilation \"Celebration\". During this episode, Letterman and Madonna again made light of her appearance on the show in 1994. The episode concluded with Letterman and Madonna going down the street and sharing a vegetarian pizza (minus cheese at Madonna's request) and martinis together.\n\n"}
{"id": "18545942", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18545942", "title": "Marcel Martel (historian)", "text": "Marcel Martel (historian)\n\nMarcel Martel is a French Canadian historian. He currently holds the Avie Bennett Historica Chair in Canadian History at York University.\n\nA student of Ramsay Cook, Martel has published extensively on topics ranging from French Canadian nationalism to federal drug policy. His book \"Le deuil d'un pays imaginé\" won the 1997 \"Prix Michel-Brunet\" from the .\nIn 2017, Martel was elected a Fellow of the Royal Society of Canada.\n"}
{"id": "52734944", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52734944", "title": "Margarida Davina Andreatta", "text": "Margarida Davina Andreatta\n\nMargarida Davina Andreatta (5 August 1922 – 1 January 2015) was a Brazilian historical and industrial archaeologist.\n\nDavina Andreatta studied geography and history at the Pontifical Catholic University of Paraná, graduating in 1957, and received a doctorate in social anthropology from the University of São Paulo (USP) in 1982. From 1972 she worked as a researcher at the Museu Paulista, and also taught at USP. Over the course of her career Davina Andreatta worked on fifty four archaeological sites, specialising in historic sites in and around São Paulo. In 2009 she received an Outstanding Achievement Award from the \"Sociedade de Arqueologia Brasileira\" and the \"Instituto do Patrimônio Histórico e Artístico Nacional\", recognising her contribution to the national archaeology of Brazil.\n"}
{"id": "56376947", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56376947", "title": "Marlia Mango", "text": "Marlia Mango\n\nMarlia Mundell Mango is a Byzantine archaeologist and historian at the University of Oxford, where she was University Lecturer in Byzantine Archaeology and Art (1995-2008).\n\nMango graduated with a BA from Newton College, Massachusetts in 1964. Subsequently, Mango was a curator and archaeologist at the research library of Dumbarton Oaks.\n\nIn 1985, Mango was awarded a DPhil from the University of Oxford on the subject of 'Artistic patronage in the Roman diocese of Oriens, 313–641 AD’, supervised by Martin Harrison.\n\nMango is currently the Director of Excavations for the Byzantine site of Androna in modern Syria, and an emeritus research fellow at St John's College, Oxford. \n\nHer husband is Cyril Mango and she worked with him on \"St Catherine's Monastery at Mount Sinai\".\n\nMango's 1986 monograph \"Silver from Early Byzantium. The Kaper Koraon and Related Treasures\" was awarded the Prix Gustave Schlumberger (Académie des Inscriptions et Belles-Lettres, Institut de France). In 1999, Mango was awarded the Frend Medal by the Society of Antiquaries of London. In 2017, a festchrift was published in honour of Mango, entitled \"Discipuli dona ferentes: Glimpses of Byzantium in Honour of Marlia Mundell Mango\", containing contributions on Byzantine art and archaeology.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "18305760", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18305760", "title": "Mujahideen", "text": "Mujahideen\n\nMujahideen ( ') is the plural form of mujahid (), the term for one engaged in Jihad (literally, “struggle”).\n\nIts widespread use in English began with reference to the guerrilla-type military groups led by the Islamist Afghan fighters in the Soviet–Afghan War, and now extends to other jihadist groups in various countries.\n\nIn its roots, Mujahideen (an Arabic word) refers to any person performing Jihad. In its post-classical meaning, Jihad refers to an act which is spiritually comparable in reward to promoting Islam during the early 600s CE. These acts could be as simple as sharing a considerable amount of your income with the poor, provided that the poor in question are Muslim.\n\nThe modern term of \"mujahideen\" referring to spiritual Muslim warriors, originates in the 19th century when the local people of Afghanistan fought against the invading British (although initially the British derogatorally called them the \"Sitana Fanatics\"). It began in 1829 when a religious man, Sayyid Ahmed Shah Brelwi, came back to the village of Sitana from a pilgrimage to Mecca and began preaching war against the infidels in the area defining the Northwest border of British India. Although he died in battle, the sect he had created survived and the Mujahideen gained more power and prominence. During the Indian Mutiny of 1857, the Mujahideen were said to accept any fleeing Sepoys and recruit them into their ranks. As time went by the sect grew ever larger until it was raiding and controlling larger areas in Afghanistan.\n\n\nThe modern phenomenon of jihadism that presents jihad (offensive or defensive) as the \"casus belli\" for insurgencies, guerrilla warfare and international terrorism, dates back to the 20th century and draws on early-to-mid-20th century Islamist doctrines such as Qutbism.\n\nArguably the best-known mujahideen outside the Islamic world, various loosely aligned Afghan opposition groups initially rebelled against the government of the pro-Soviet Democratic Republic of Afghanistan (DRA) during the late 1970s. At the DRA's request, the Soviet Union brought forces into the country to aid the government from 1979. The mujahideen fought against Soviet and DRA troops during the Soviet–Afghan War (1979–1989). Afghanistan's resistance movement originated in chaos and, at first, regional warlords waged virtually all of its fighting locally. As warfare became more sophisticated, outside support and regional coordination grew. The basic units of mujahideen organization and action continued to reflect the highly decentralized nature of Afghan society and strong loci of competing mujahideen and tribal groups, particularly in isolated areas among the mountains. Eventually, the seven main mujahideen parties allied as the political bloc called Islamic Unity of Afghanistan Mujahideen.\n\nMany Muslims from other countries assisted the various mujahideen groups in Afghanistan. Some groups of these veterans became significant players in later conflicts in and around the Muslim world. Osama bin Laden, originally from a wealthy family in Saudi Arabia, was a prominent organizer and financier of an all-Arab Islamist group of foreign volunteers; his Maktab al-Khadamat funnelled money, arms, and Muslim fighters from around the Muslim world into Afghanistan, with the assistance and support of the Saudi and Pakistani governments. These foreign fighters became known as \"Afghan Arabs\" and their efforts were coordinated by Abdullah Yusuf Azzam.\n\nAlthough the mujahideen were aided by the Pakistani, U.S., and Saudi governments, the mujahideen's primary source of funding was private donors and religious charities throughout the Muslim world—particularly in the Persian Gulf. Jason Burke recounts that \"as little as 25 per cent of the money for the Afghan jihad was actually supplied directly by states.\"\nMujahideen forces caused serious casualties to the Soviet forces, and made the war very costly for the Soviet Union. In 1989 the Soviet Union withdrew its forces from Afghanistan. Many districts and cities then fell to the mujahideen; in 1992 the DRA's last president, Mohammad Najibullah, was overthrown.\n\nHowever, the mujahideen did not establish a united government, and many of the larger mujahideen groups began to fight each other over power in Kabul. After several years of devastating fighting, a village mullah named Mohammed Omar organized a new armed movement with the backing of Pakistan. This movement became known as the Taliban (\"students\" in Pashto), referring to how most Taliban had grown up in refugee camps in Pakistan during the 1980s and were taught in the Saudi-backed Wahhabi madrassas, religious schools known for teaching a fundamentalist interpretation of Islam. Veteran mujahideen confronted this radical splinter group in 1996.\n\nWhile more than one group in Iran have called themselves mujahideen, the most famous is the People's Mujahedin of Iran (PMOI), an Iraq-based Islamic Socialist militant organization that advocates the overthrow of Iran's current government. The group also took part in the 1979 Iranian Revolution, Iran–Iraq War (on the side of Iraqis), and in the Iraqi internal conflicts.\n\nAnother mujahideen was the Mujahedin-e Islam, an Islamic party led by Ayatollah Abol-Ghasem Kashani. \nIt formed part of the National Front (Iran) during the time of Mohammed Mosaddeq's oil nationalization, but broke away from Mosaddeq over his allegedly un-Islamic policies.\n\nFrom 1947 to 1961, local mujahideen fought against Burmese government soldiers in an attempt to have the Mayu peninsula in northern Arakan, Burma (present-day Rakhine State, Myanmar) secede from the country, so it could be annexed by East Pakistan (present-day Bangladesh). During the late 1950s and early 1960s, the mujahideen lost most of its momentum and support, resulting in most of them surrendering to government forces.\n\nIn the 1990s, the well-armed Rohingya Solidarity Organisation was the main perpetrator of attacks on Burmese authorities positioned on the Bangladesh–Myanmar border.\n\nIn 1969, political tensions and open hostilities developed between the Government of the Philippines and jihadist rebel groups. \nThe Moro National Liberation Front (MNLF) was established by University of the Philippines professor Nur Misuari to condemn the killings of more than 60 Filipino Muslims and later became an aggressor against the government while the Moro Islamic Liberation Front (MILF), a splinter group from the MNLF, was established to seek an Islamic state within the Philippines and is more radical and more aggressive. \nThe conflict is ongoing; casualty statistics vary for the conflict however the conservative estimates of the Uppsala Conflict Data Program indicate that at least 6,015 people were killed in armed conflict between the Government of Philippines and ASG, BIFM, MILF, and MNLF factions between 1989 and 2012. Abu Sayyaf is an Islamic separatist group in the southern Philippines, formed in 1991. The group is known for its kidnappings of Western nationals and Filipinos, for which it has received several large ransom-payments. Some Abu Sayyaf members have studied or worked in Saudi Arabia and developed relations with the mujahideen members while fighting and training in the war against the Soviet invasion of Afghanistan.\n\nThe 1990s are a transitional period between the Mujahideen outfits forming part of the proxy wars between the Cold War superpowers and the emergence of contemporary jihadism in the wake of the US \"War on Terror\" and the \"Arab Spring\".\n\nAl-Qaeda saw its formative period during this time, and jihadism formed part of the picture in regional conflicts of the 1990s, including the Yugoslav Wars, the Somali Civil War, the First Chechen War, etc.\n\nDuring the Bosnian war 1992–1995, many foreign Muslims came to Bosnia as mujahideen. Muslims around the world who shared mujahideen beliefs and respected the author of Islamic Declaration come to the aid of fellow Muslims. Alija Izetbegovic, author of Islamic Declaration and in his younger days author of poem \"To the Jihad\" was particularly happy about the presence of Mujahedeens in Bosnia and gave them full support. El Mujahid members claimed that in Bosnia they only have respect for Alija Izetbegovic and the head of the Bosnian Army Third Corps, Sakib Mahmuljin. The number of foreign Muslim volunteers in Bosnia was estimated at about 4,000 in contemporary newspaper reports. Later research estimated the number to be about 400. They came from various places such as Saudi Arabia, Pakistan, Afghanistan, Jordan, Egypt, Iraq and the Palestinian Territories; to quote the summary of the International Criminal Tribunal for the former Yugoslavia judgment:\n\nThe evidence shows that foreign volunteers arrived in central Bosnia in the second half of 1992 with the aim of helping Muslims. Mostly they came from North Africa, the Near East and the Middle East. The foreign volunteers differed considerably from the local population, not only because of their physical appearance and the language they spoke, but also because of their fighting methods. The various foreign, Muslim volunteers were primarily organized into an umbrella detachment of the 7th Muslim Brigade, which was a brigade of the Army of the Republic of Bosnia and Herzegovina, based in Zenica. This independent subdivision colloquially known as \"El-Mudžahid\", was composed exclusively of foreign nationals and not Bosnians (whereas the 7th Muslim Brigade was entirely made up of native Bosnians) and consisted of somewhere between 300 and 1,500 volunteers. Enver Hadžihasanović, Lieutenant Colonel of the Bosnian Army's 3rd Corps, appointed Mahmut Karalić (Commandant), Asim Koričić (Chief of Staff) and Amir Kubura (Assistant Chief for Operational and Curricula) to lead the group.\n\nSome of the mujahideen funnelled arms and money into the country which Bosnia direly needed due to a United Nations-sanctioned arms embargo restricting the import of weapons into all of the republics of the Socialist Federal Republic of Yugoslavia. However, many of the mujahideen were extremely devout Muslims of the strict Salafi sect, which contrasted sharply with the widely renowned secular society and liberal attitude Bosnian Muslims harbored. This led to friction between the mujahideen and the Bosnians. Furthermore, some mujahideen wanted to fight a war of extermination, or use Bosnian territory as a base for terrorist operations elsewhere.\n\nForeign volunteers in Bosnia have been accused of committing war crimes during the conflict. However, the ICTY has never issued indictments against mujahideen fighters. Instead, the ICTY indicted some Bosnian Army commanders on the basis of superior criminal responsibility. The ICTY acquitted Amir Kubura and Enver Hadžihasanović of the Bosnian 3rd Corps of all charges related to the incidents involving mujahideen. Furthermore, the Appeals Chamber noted that the relationship between the 3rd Corps and the El Mujahedin detachment was not one of subordination but was instead close to overt hostility since the only way to control the detachment was to attack them as if they were a distinct enemy force.\n\nThe ICTY Trial Chamber convicted Rasim Delic, the former chief of the Bosnian Army General Staff. The ICTY found that Delic had effective control over the El Mujahid Detachment. He was sentenced to three years of imprisonment for his failure to prevent or punish the cruel treatment of twelve captured Serb soldiers by the Mujahideen. Delic remained in the Detention Unit while appellate proceedings continued.\n\nSome individuals of the Bosnian Mujahideen, such as Abdelkader Mokhtari, Fateh Kamel, and Karim Said Atmani, gained particular prominence within Bosnia as well as international attention from various foreign governments. They were all North African volunteers with well established links to Islamic Fundamentalist groups before and after the Bosnian War.\n\nIn 2015, former Human Rights Minister and Federation BiH Vice President Mirsad Kebo talked about numerous war crimes committed against Serbs by mujahideen in Bosnia and their links with current and past Muslim officials including former and current presidents of federation and presidents of parliament based on war diaries and other documented evidence. He gave evidence to the BiH federal prosecutor.\n\nThe term mujahideen has often been used to refer to all separatist fighters in the case of the First and Second Chechen Wars. However, in this article, mujahideen is used to refer to the foreign, non-Caucasian fighters who joined the separatists’ cause for the sake of Jihad. They are often called Ansaar (helpers) in related literature dealing with this conflict to prevent confusion with the native fighters.\n\nForeign mujahideen have played a part in both Chechen wars. After the collapse of the Soviet Union and the subsequent Chechen declaration of independence, foreign fighters began entering the region and associating themselves with local rebels (most notably Shamil Basayev). Many of the foreign fighters were veterans of the Soviet–Afghan War. The mujahideen also made a significant financial contribution to the separatists’ cause; with their access to the immense wealth of Salafist charities like al-Haramein, they soon became an invaluable source of funds for the Chechen resistance, which had few resources of its own.\n\nMost of the mujahideen decided to remain in Chechnya after the withdrawal of Russian forces. In 1999, foreign fighters played an important role in the ill-fated Chechen incursion into Dagestan, where they suffered a decisive defeat and were forced to retreat back into Chechnya. The incursion provided the new Russian government with a pretext for intervention. Russian ground forces invaded Chechnya again in December 1999.\n\nThe mujahideen were deemed responsible for the decapitation of six young Russian conscripts caught in Dagestan during a rebel incursion. The beheading was filmed and then posted online. The six Russian conscripts were caught behind enemy lines after the small and unprepared Russian unit retreated during a rebel advance onto Dagestan. The mujahideen were then killed by Russian special forces during a gunfight a short time later.\n\nThe separatists were less successful in the Second Chechen War. The Chechens were unable to hold their ground against better prepared and more determined Russian forces. Russian officials claimed that the separatists had been defeated as early as 2002. The Russians also succeeded in killing the most prominent mujahideen commanders, most notably Ibn al-Khattab and Abu al-Walid.\n\nAlthough the region has since been far from stable, separatist activity has decreased, though some foreign fighters remain active in Chechnya. In the last months of 2007, the influence of foreign fighters became apparent again when Dokka Umarov proclaimed the Caucasus Emirate being fought for by the Caucasian Mujahadeen, a pan-Caucasian Islamic state of which Chechnya was to be a province. This move caused a rift in the resistance movement between those supporting the Emirate and those who were in favour of preserving the Chechen Republic of Ichkeria.\n\nAn outfit calling itself the Indian Mujahideen came to light in 2008 with multiple large scale terror attacks. On November 26, 2008, a group calling itself the Deccan Mujahideen claimed responsibility for a string of attacks across Mumbai. The \"Weekly Standard\" claimed, \"Indian intelligence believes the Indian Mujahideen is a front group created by Lashkar-e-Taiba and the Harkat-ul-Jihad-al-Islami to confuse investigators and cover the tracks of the Students Islamic Movement of India, or SIMI, a radical Islamist movement with aim to establish Islamic rule over India. In the Indian state of Jammu and Kashmir, Kashmiri Muslim separatists opposing Indian rule are often known as \"mujahideen\".\n\nSeveral different militant groups have since taken root in Pakistan-controlled Kashmir. Most noticeable of these groups are Lashkar-e-Taiba (LeT), Jaish-e-Mohammed (JeM), Jammu and Kashmir Liberation Front (JKLF), Hizbul Mujahideen and Harkat-ul-Mujahideen (HuM). A 1996 report by Human Rights Watch estimated the number of active mujahideen at 3,200.\n\nThe members of the Salafi movement (within Sunni Islam) in the south Indian state of Kerala is known as \"Mujahids\".\n\nJamaat-ul-Mujahideen was an Islamist organisation operating in Bangladesh. The organization was officially banned by the government of Bangladesh in February 2005 after attacks on NGOs, but struck back in mid-August when it detonated 500 bombs at 300 locations throughout Bangladesh.\n\nThe term \"mujahideen\" is sometimes applied to fighters who joined the insurgency after the 2003 invasion of Iraq.\nSome groups also use the word \"mujahideen\" in their names, like Mujahideen Shura Council and Mujahideen Army.\n\nFollowing the U.S. invasion of Iraq as part of the George W. Bush administration's post 9/11 foreign policy, many foreign Mujahideen joined several Sunni militant groups resisting the U.S. occupation of Iraq. A considerable part of the insurgents did not come from Iraq but instead from many other Arab countries, notably Jordan and Saudi Arabia. Among these recruits was Abu Musab al-Zarqawi, a Jordanian national who would go on to assume the leadership of Al-Qaeda in Iraq (AQI).\n\nVarious Islamic groups, often referred to as mujahideen and jihadists, have participated in the Syrian civil war. Alawites, the sect to which Syrian President Bashar al-Assad belongs, are considered to be heretics in some Sunni Muslim circles. In this sense, radical Sunni Jihadist organizations and their affiliates have been anti-Assad. Jihadist leaders and intelligence sources said foreign fighters had begun to enter Syria only in February 2012. In May 2012, Syria's U.N. envoy Bashar Ja'afari declared that dozens of foreign fighters from Libya, Tunisia, Egypt, Britain, France elsewhere had been captured or killed, and urged Saudi Arabia, Qatar and Turkey to stop \"their sponsorship of the armed rebellion\". Jihadist leaders and intelligence sources said foreign fighters had begun to enter Syria only in February 2012. In June, it was reported that hundreds of foreign fighters, many linked to al-Qaeda, had gone to Syria to fight against Assad. When asked if the United States would arm the opposition, Hillary Clinton expressed doubts that such weapons would be effective in the toppling of the Syrian government and may even fall into the hands of al-Qaeda or Hamas.\n\nAmerican officials assumed already in 2012 that Qaidat al-Jihad (a.k.a. Al-Qaeda in Iraq) has conducted bomb attacks against Syrian government forces, Iraqi Foreign Minister Hoshyar Zebari said that al-Qaeda in Iraq members have gone to Syria, where the militants previously received support and weapons from the Syrian government in order to destabilize the US occupation of Iraq. On 23 April, one of the leaders of Fatah al-Islam, Abdel Ghani Jawhar, was killed during the Battle of Al-Qusayr, after he blew himself up while making a bomb. In July 2012, Iraq's foreign minister again warned that members of al-Qaeda in Iraq were seeking refuge in Syria and moving there to fight.\n\nIt is believed that al-Qaeda leader Ayman al-Zawahiri condemned Assad.\nA group thought linked to al-Qaeda and calling itself the al-Nusra Front claimed for a suicide bomb attack on 6 January 2012 in the central Damascus neighbourhood of al-Midan killed 26 people, most of whom were civilians, as well as for truck bombs that killed 55 people and injured 370.\nA member of the Abdullah Azzam Brigades in Lebanon admitted that his group had sent fighters to Syria. On November 12, 2018, the United States closed its financial system to an Iraqi named, Shibl Muhsin 'Ubayd Al-Zaydi and others over concerns that they were sending Iraqi fighters to Syria and financial support to other Hezbollah activities in the region.\n\nThe Mujahidin Shura Council in the Environs of Jerusalem (MSC) was designated as a Foreign Terrorist Organization (FTO) by the Department of State.\n\nOn November 12, 2018, the U.S. Department of State blacklisted the Al-Mujahidin Brigades (AMB) over its alleged Hezbollah associations, as well as, Jawad Nasrallah, son of Lebanon’s Iran-backed Hezbollah leader Sayyed Hassan Nasrallah, from using the United States financial system and further naming him a terrorist associated with evidence of his involvement in attacks against Israel in the West Bank. It had been reported in Israel that the al-Mujahideen Brigades was formerly linked to the Fatah rather than the Hamas organization.\n\nBoko Haram has been active in Nigeria since it was founded in 2001. It existed in other forms before 2001. Although it initially limited its operations to northeast Nigeria, it has since expanded to other parts of Nigeria, and to Cameroon, Niger and Chad. Boko Haram seeks to implement sharia law across Nigeria.\n\nThe currently active jihadist groups in Somalia derive from the Al-Itihaad al-Islamiya group active during the 1990s.\n\nIn July 2006, a Web-posted message purportedly written by Osama bin Laden urged Somalis to build an Islamic state in the country and warned western states that his al-Qaeda network would fight against them if they intervened there. Foreign fighters began to arrive, though there were official denials of the presence of mujahideen in the country.\nEven so, the threat of jihad was made openly and repeatedly in the months preceding the Battle of Baidoa. On December 23, 2006, Islamists, for the first time, called upon international fighters to join their cause. The term \"mujahideen\" is now openly used by the post-ICU resistance against the Ethiopians and the TFG.\n\nHarakat al-Shabaab Mujahideen is said to have non-Somali foreigners in its ranks, particularly among its leadership. Fighters from the Persian Gulf and international jihadists were called to join the holy war against the Somali government and its Ethiopian allies. Though Somali Islamists did not use suicide bombing tactics before, the foreign elements of al-Shabaab are blamed for several suicide bombings. Egypt has a longstanding policy of securing the Nile River flow by destabilizing Ethiopia. Similarly, recent media reports said that Egyptian and Arab jihadists were the core members of Al-Shabaab, and were training Somalis in sophisticated weaponry and suicide bombing techniques..\n\nIn April 2017, the government of China prohibited parents from choosing the name Mujahid as the given name for a child. The list included more than two dozen names and was targeted at the 10 million Uighurs in the western region of Xinjiang.\n\n"}
{"id": "17682368", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17682368", "title": "Nathan Rosenberg", "text": "Nathan Rosenberg\n\nNathan Rosenberg (November 22, 1927 – August 24, 2015) was an American economist specializing in the history of technology. He earned his PhD from the University of Wisconsin in 1955, and taught at Indiana University (1955–1957), the University of Pennsylvania (1957–1961), Purdue University (1961–1964), Harvard University (1967–1969), the University of Wisconsin (1969–1974) and Stanford University (1974–), where he was the Fairleigh S. Dickinson, Jr. Professor Emeritus of Public Policy in the Department of Economics. In 1989 he was visiting Pitt Professor of American History and Institutions at the University of Cambridge.\n\nRosenberg's contribution to understanding technological change was acknowledged by Douglass C. North in his Nobel Prize lecture entitled \"Economic Performance through Time\". In 1996 he was awarded the Leonardo da Vinci Medal, the highest award of the Society for the History of Technology.\n\nIn 1986's \"How the West Grew Rich\", Rosenberg and co-author L.E. Birdzell, Jr. argued that Western Europe's economic success grew out of a loosening of political and religious controls, and that Western medieval life was not actually organized in castles, cathedrals, and cities; but that it was organized more in the rural areas in huts and in places with reliable access to food. This is why, the book states, most of the population was to some extent involved in agriculture and its related occupations of transporting produce from place to place. The importance of these ideas have since been more fully recognized by the discipline of international economic history. The Rosenberg-Birdzell hypothesis is that innovation is produced by economic competition among politically independent entities. This hypothesis is tested and supported by Joel Mokyr in his contribution to the Festschrift-issue of \"Research Policy\", which was published in honor of Nathan Rosenberg in 1994.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "14809499", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14809499", "title": "Nino Salia", "text": "Nino Salia\n\nNino Salia née Kurtsikashvili () (October 15, 1898 – 1992) was a Georgian émigré historian and philologist active in France, and the wife of the historian Kalistrat Salia.\n\nBorn in Kakheti, eastern Georgia, she was educated at Tbilisi and St. Petersburg. During World War I, she served as a nurse. After the Soviet takeover of Georgia, she lived in France where she, together with her husband, edited the journal \"Bedi Kartlisa\" dedicated to the Kartvelian studies. Salia published several works on the history and culture of Georgia, and coauthored \"Georgia\" (Historical-Cultural Review) along with K. Salia and V. Beridze. Later in her life, she presented her unique library to the Institute of Manuscripts of Georgia.\n\n"}
{"id": "323257", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=323257", "title": "Obol (coin)", "text": "Obol (coin)\n\nThe obol (, \"obolos\", also ὀβελός (\"obelós\"), ὀβελλός (\"obellós\"), ὀδελός (\"odelós\").  \"nail, metal spit\"; ) was a form of ancient Greek currency and weight.\nObols were used from early times. According to Plutarch they were originally spits of copper or bronze traded by weight, while six obols make a drachma or a handful, since that was as many as the hand could grasp. Heraklides of Pontus in his work on \"Etymologies\" mentions the obols of Heraion and derives the origin of obolos from obelos. This is confirmed by the historian Ephorus on his work \"On Inventions\". Excavations at Argos discovered several dozen of these early obols, dated well before 800 ; they are now displayed at the Numismatic Museum of Athens. Archaeologists today describe the iron spits as \"utensil-money\" since excavated hoards indicate that during the Late Geometric period they were exchanged in handfuls (drachmae) of six spits, they were not used for manufacturing artifacts as metallurgical analyses suggest, but they were most likely used as token-money. Plutarch states the Spartans had an iron obol of four coppers. They retained the cumbersome and impractical bars rather than proper coins to discourage the pursuit of wealth.\n\nIn Classical Athens, obols were traded as silver coins. Six obols made up the drachma. There were also coins worth two obols (\"diobol\") and three obols (\"triobol\"). Each obol was divisible into eight \"coppers\" (, \"khalkoí\"). During this era, an obol purchased a kantharos and chous (6 pints or 3 liters) of wine. Three obols was a standard rate for prostitutes.\n\nThe deceased were buried with an obol placed in the mouth of the corpse, so that—once a deceased's shade reached Hades—they would be able to pay Charon for passage across the river Acheron or Styx. Legend had it that those without enough wealth or whose friends refused to follow proper burial rites were forced to wander the banks of the river for one hundred years.\n\nThe obol or obolus was also a measurement of Greek, Roman, and apothecaries' weight.\n\nIn ancient Greece, it was generally reckoned as drachma ( ). Under Roman rule, it was defined as of a Roman ounce or about . The apothecaries' system also reckoned the obol or obolus as ounce or scruple.\n\nThe obolus, along with the mirror, was a symbol of new schismatic heretics in the short story \"The Theologians\" by Argentine author Jorge Luis Borges. In the story's discussion of the circularity of time, eternity, and the transmigration of the soul through several bodies the author uses a quote of Luke 12:59, mistranslated as \"no one will be released from prison until he has paid the last obolus\" since Luke calls the coin a lepton (a somewhat smaller denomination) rather than an obolus.\n\n\n2. Vol. I of the Loeb Classical Library edition,1914 Plutarch, Lycurgus, 9\n\n"}
{"id": "3194691", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3194691", "title": "Older Dryas", "text": "Older Dryas\n\nThe Older Dryas was a stadial (cold) period between the Bølling and Allerød interstadials (warmer phases), about 14,000 years Before Present), towards the end of the Pleistocene. Its date is not well defined, with estimates varying by 400 years, but its duration is agreed to have been around 200 years.\n\nThe gradual warming since the Last Glacial Maximum (27,000 to 24,000 years BP) has been interrupted by two cold spells: the Older Dryas and the Younger Dryas (c. 12,900-11,650 BP). In northern Scotland, the glaciers were thicker and deeper during the Older Dryas than the succeeding Younger Dryas, and there is no evidence of human occupation of Britain. In Northwestern Europe was also an earlier Oldest Dryas. The Dryas are named after an indicator genus, the Arctic and Alpine plant Dryas, the remains of which are found in higher concentrations in deposits from colder periods.\n\nThe Older Dryas was a variable cold, dry Blytt-Sernander period, observed in climatological evidence in only some regions, depending on latitude. In regions in which it is not observed, the Bølling-Allerød is considered a single interstadial period. Evidence of the Older Dryas is strongest in northern Eurasia, particularly part of Northern Europe, roughly equivalent to Pollen zone Ic.\n\nIn the Greenland oxygen isotope record, the Older Dryas appears as a downward peak establishing a small, low-intensity gap between the Bølling and the Allerød. That configuration presents a difficulty in estimating its time, as it is more of a point than a segment. The segment is small enough to escape the resolution of most carbon-14 series, as the points are not close enough together to find the segment.\n\nOne approach to the problem assigns a point and then picks an arbitrary segment. The Older Dryas is sometimes considered to be \"centered\" near 14,100 BP or to be 100 to 150 years long \"at\" 14,250 BP.\n\nA second approach finds carbon-14 or other dates as close to the end of the Bølling and the beginning of the Allerød as possible and then selects endpoints that based on them: for example, 14,000-13,700 BP.\n\nThe best approach attempts to include the Older Dryas in a sequence of points as close together as possible (high resolution) or within a known event.\n\nFor example, pollen from the island of Hokkaidō, Japan, records a Larix pollen peak and matching sphagnum decline at 14,600-13700 BP. In the White Sea, a cooling occurred at 14,700-13,400/13,000, which resulted in a re-advance of the glacier in the initial Allerød. In Canada, the Shulie Lake phase, a re-advance, is dated to 14,000-13,500 BP. On the other hand, varve chronology in southern Sweden indicates a range of 14,050-13,900 BP.\n\nCapturing the Older Dryas by high resolution continues to be of interest to climatologists.\n\nNorthern Europe offered an alternation of steppe and tundra environments depending on the permafrost line and the latitude. In moister regions, around lakes and streams, were thickets of dwarf birch, willow, sea buckthorn, and juniper. In the river valleys and uplands, to the south, were open birch forests.\n\nThe first trees, birch and pine, had spread into Northern Europe 500 years earlier. During the Older Dryas, the glacier re-advanced, and the trees retreated southward, to be replaced by a mixture of grassland and cool-weather alpine species. The biome has been called \"Park Tundra,\" \"Arctic tundra,\" \"Arctic pioneer vegetation,\" or “birch woodlands.\" It is now in the transition between taiga and tundra in Siberia. Then, it stretched from Siberia to Great Britain, in a more-or-less unbroken expanse.\n\nTo the northwest was the Baltic ice lake, which was truncated by the edge of the glacier. Species had access to Denmark and southern Sweden. Most of Finland and the Baltic countries were under the ice or the lake for most of the period. Northern Scandinavia was glaciated. Between Britain and the Continental Europe were rolling hills prolifically populated with animals. Thousands of specimens, hundreds of tons of bones, have been recovered from the bottom of the North Sea, called \"Doggerland,\" and they continue to be recovered.\n\nThere are many more species found for the period than in this article. Most families were more diverse than they are today, and they were yet more so in the last interglacial. A great extinction, especially of mammals, continued throughout the end of the Pleistocene, and it may be continuing today.\n\nThe Older Dryas is a period of cooling during the Bølling-Allerød warming, estimated to be from 13,900 to 13,600 years before present (BP), and the estimated ages can vary using different age dating methods. Numerous studies on chronology and palaeoclimate of last deglaciation show a cooling event within Bølling-Allerød warming that reflects the occurrence of Older Dryas. The determination of paleotemperatures varies from study to study depending on the sample collected. δO measurements are most common when analyzing Ice core samples whereas the changing abundance pattern of fauna and flora are most commonly used when examining lake sediments. Moraine belts are usually studied in places with palaeoglacier presented. As for ocean sediments, the variations of alkenone levels and faunal abundances were measured to model paleotemperatures in separate studies showed in the following sections.\n\nThe North Greenland Ice Core Project (GRIP) members drilled an undisturbed ice core from North Greenland (75.1 8N, 42.3 8W). The ice core record showed a cold oscillation between 14,025 to13,904 years BP, which is reflected in the increased δO during this period. This cold oscillation was also observed in earlier ice core records (GRIP and GISP2) drilled in early 1990’s by GRIP members.\n\nA multi-proxy study on late glacial lake sediments of Moervaart palaeolake shows multiple pieces of evidence in various aspects to support Older Dryas.\n\nThe lake sediment had an erosional surface prior to Older Dryas suggesting a change to colder climate. Microstructure observation of the sediments shows that fossil soil wedges or frost cracks were observed in the top of Older Dryas deposits, which indicates mean annual air temperatures below -1 to 0 ℃ and cold winters. This conclusion is also supported by the presence of \"Juniperus\", which indicates a protecting snow cover in winter. This change is also shown on the records at the Rieme sites on the Great SandRidge of Maldegem-Stekene at Snellegem in NW Belgium, and many other sites in north-western Europe.\n\nδO measurements show a decreasing trend in δO at the transition to the Older Dryas, which corresponds to the ice core record of precipitation in the northern hemisphere.\n\nPollen analysis shows a temporary decrease in the pollen levels of trees and shrubs with a short-term increase of herbaceous pollen. The changed pollen pattern suggests an increased abundance of grass as well as a retreat of tree and shrubs. The change of vegetation distribution further indicates a colder and drier climate during this period. As for aquatic plant evidence, both aquatic and semi-aquatic botanical taxa show a sharp decrease, suggesting lower lake levels caused by drier climate. The drier climate is also reflected by increased salinity indicated by diatom analysis.\n\nThe change of Chironomids population also indicates a colder climate. \"Microtendipes\" is an indicator of intermediate temperature in Late glacial deposits in northern Europe (Brooks and Birks, 2001). The abundance of \"Microtendipes\" peaked in the early part of Older Dryas suggesting a cold oscillation. The mollusc data (\"Valvata piscinalis\" as a cold-water indicator) suggests a lower summer temperature comparing to previous Bølling period.\n\nRecent research on sea surface temperature (SST) for the past 15,000 years in southern Okinawa modelled the Paleoclimate of ocean sediment core (ODP 1202B) using an alkenone analysis. The results show a cooing stage at 14,300 to 13,700 years BP between Bølling and Allerød warm phases, corresponding to the Older Dryas event.\n\nAnother study on an ocean sediment core from Norwegian Trench also suggests a cooling between Bølling and Allerød warm phases. The glacial polar faunal study on ocean sediment core Troll 3.1 based on \"Neogloboquadrina pachyderma\" abundances suggests that there were two cooling events before Younger Dryas in which one of the events occurred within Bølling-Allerød interstadial and can be associated with Older Dryas.\n\nThe study on late-glacial climate change in White Mountains (New Hampshire, USA) refined the deglaciation history of White Mountain Moraine System (WMMS) by mapping moraine belts and related lake sequences. The result suggests that the Littleton-Bethlehem (L-B) readvance of ice sheet occurred between 14,000 to 13,800 years BP. The L-B readvance coincided with the Older Dryas events and provides the first well-documented and dated evidence of Older Dryas.\n\nAnother Glacial chronology and palaeoclimate study on moraine suggests a cold oscillation in the second late-glacial (LG2) following the first late-glacial readvance (LG1) at around 14,000±700 to 13,700±1200 years BP. The LG2 cold oscillation around 14,000 years BP can correspond to the cooling of Greenland Interstadial 1 (GI-1d-Older Dryas) that happened around the same time period, which is the first chronological evidence that supports the presence of Older Dryas in the Tatra Mountains.\n\nOlder Dryas species are usually found in sediment below the bottom layer of the bog. Indicator species are the Alpine plants:\n\nGrasslands species are the following: \n\nA well-stocked biozone prevailed on the Arctic plains and thickets of the Late Pleistocene. Plains mammals were most predominant:\n\nArtiodactyls:\nPerissodactyls:\nProboscidea:\n\nSo much meat on the hoof must have supported large numbers of Carnivora:\nUrsidae:\nHyaenidae:\nFelidae:\nCanidae:\nMustelidae:\n\nThe sea also had its share of carnivores; their maritime location made them survive until modern times:\nPhocidae:\nOdobenidae:\nOf the Cetacean Odontoceti, the Monodontidae:\nDelphinidae:\nOf the Mysticetian Eschrichtiidae:\n\nThe top of the food chain was supported by larger numbers of smaller animals farther down, which lived in the herbaceous blanket covering the tundra or steppe and helped maintain it by carrying seeds, manuring and aerating it.\n\nLeporidae:\nOchotonidae:\nCricetidae:\nSciuridae:\nDipodidae:\n\nEurasia was populated by \"Homo sapiens sapiens\" (Cro-Magnon man) during the late Upper Paleolithic. Bands of humans survived by hunting the mammals of the plains. In Northern Europe they preferred reindeer, in Ukraine the woolly mammoth. They sheltered in huts and manufactured tools around campfires. Ukrainian shelters were supported by mammoth tusks. Humans were already established across Siberia and in North America.\n\nTwo domestic dogs (\"Canis familiaris\") have been found in late Pleistocene Ukraine and were a heavy breed, similar to a Great Dane, perhaps useful to run down Elephantidae. The large number of mammoth bones at campsites make it clear that even then, the Elephantidae in Europe were approaching the limit of their duration. Their bones were used for many purposes, one being the numerous objects of art, including an engraved star map.\n\nLate Upper Palaeolithic culture was by no means uniform. Many local traditions have been defined. The Hamburgian culture had occupied the lowlands and Northern Germany before the Older Dryas. During the Older Dryas, contemporaneous with the Havelte Group of the late Hamburgian, the Federmesser culture appeared and occupied Denmark and southern Sweden, following the reindeer. South of the Hamburgian was the longstanding Magdalenian. In Ukraine was the Moldovan, which used tusks to build shelters.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "56321935", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56321935", "title": "Otto Theodor Benfey", "text": "Otto Theodor Benfey\n\nOtto Theodor Benfey (born 31 October 1925) is a chemist and historian of science. Sent to England to escape Nazi Germany at age 10, he completed his education as a chemist at University College London before moving to the United States. A Quaker and a pacifist, Benfey taught at Haverford College, Earlham College, and Guilford College, retiring in 1988 as the Dana Professor of Chemistry and History of Science, Emeritus.\n\nBenfey is known for his work on chemical education and the history of science. He edited the ACS-sponsored high school magazine \"Chemistry\" for fifteen years. His translations include \"The Japanese and Western Science\" by Masao Watanabe, \"The History of the International Chemical Industry\" by Fred Aftalion, and \"My 132 Semesters of Chemistry Studies\" by Vladimir Prelog. His books include \"From vital force to structural formulas\" (1964), \"Introduction to Organic Reaction Mechanisms\" (1970), and \"Robert Burns Woodward. Architect and Artist in the World of Molecules\" (2001).\n\nOtto Theodor Benfey was born on 31 October 1925, to Eduard Benfey and his second wife, Lotte Maria (Fleischmann) Benfey, in Berlin, Germany.\nEduard Benfey, a graduate of the University of Göttingen, had served as Chief Justice of the Supreme Court of Economic Arbitration during the Weimar Republic. Although his parents had converted to Lutheranism, the family was still regarded as Jewish by the increasingly powerful Nazi Party. \nIn 1936, Ted Benfey was sent to live in England with family friends, the Mendls. He attended the Watford Grammar School with their son, Wolf Mendl. Ted Benfey and Wolf Mendl were both confirmed in the Church of England, but eventually both they and Mrs. Mendl joined the Society of Friends, or Quakers.\n\nFollowing Kristallnacht in 1938, Benfey's younger brother and older sister joined him briefly in England. Eduard and Lotte Benfey were eventually successful in getting American visas, because Lotte's sister Anni Albers and her husband Josef Albers were Bauhaus artists, teaching at Black Mountain College in North Carolina. While the rest of the family were reunited as immigrants in New York, the Mendls invited Ted to remain with them and complete his education.\n\nBenfey's interests in organic chemistry and geometry led him to apply to study chemistry at university, and he was accepted at University College London. During World War II, the chemistry department was relocated to Aberystwyth, Wales. Beginning in 1942, Benfey lived there in a cooperative student hostel. One of his close friends was Nigerian Stephen Oluwole Awokoya. In 1944, Benfey took his examinations, and was awarded his B.Sc. degree with first class honors in 1945.\n\nSoon after, University College London moved back to London. London was still under attack from V-1 and V-2 rockets. Benfey was invited to continue his studies and do Ph.D. work with Christopher Kelk Ingold. As a Quaker, he could not agree to work on anything relating to weapons development. Ingold assigned him to work on aliphatic substitution and evidence for carbocation. Benfey received his Doctor of Philosophy from University College, London in 1947.\n\nDuring his Ph.D. work, Benfey studied the effects of salts on alkyl halide hydrolysis reaction rates. He showed that \"two salts could have inverse effects depending on the leaving group of the alkyl halide,\" the opposite of a prediction made by Louis Plack Hammett. On the basis of this work, Benfey obtained a London University postdoctoral traveling fellowship, enabling him to work with Hammett at Columbia University.\n\nAlthough he had fully intended to return to England, Benfey was approached by Haverford College, a Quaker institution, and invited to join the chemistry faculty. He accepted, becoming one of four members of the department in January 1948. Soon after, he met Rachel Thomas, a teacher at Haverford Friends School and an artist. Rachel's fiancé, Sergei Thomas, had died in an accident a few months earlier. She and Ted Benfey were married in 1949. Also in 1949, Benfey attended the first meeting of the Society for Social Responsibility in Science (SSRS) at Haverford, organized by Victor Paschkis. Benfey became its second president in 1951.\n\nDuring his time at Haverford, several people influenced Benfey and shaped his career as a historian of science.\nOne was William Buell Meldrum, the department head at Haverford when Benfey joined the faculty. Like Christopher Kelk Ingold, Meldrum approached the teaching of chemistry from a historical and philosophical viewpoint, a model which Benfey followed. \nAnother influence was James B. Conant of Harvard University. Benfey attended a summer school in which Conant focused on case histories in experimental science.\nHenry Margenau, a visiting professor from Yale University, recruited Benfey to translate Ernst Cassirer's \"Determinismus und Indeterminismus in der modernen Physik\" into English. It became the first of many Benfey translations.\n\nBenfey chose to resign from Haverford as his sabbatical year approached. He spent his sabbatical year working with Frank Westheimer of Harvard University. He also prepared the manuscript for \"From vital force to structural formulas\" (1964). It became the first book in the Houghton Mifflin series \"Classic Researches in Organic Chemistry\".\n\nIn the fall of 1955, Benfey was approached by Larry Strong at Earlham College, who invited him to become the third member of the chemistry department, with Strong and Wilmer Stratton. Benfey and Strong began to develop a new curriculum based on concepts. In 1958, their hew curriculum was published in the \nreport of the Advisory Council on College Chemistry. After graduating three National Science Foundation Fellowship awardees in the its first group of students, the American Chemical Society's Committee on Professional Training (CPT) approved the Earlham curriculum, and accepted it as a model for \"curricular innovation\". The work at Earlham also led to development of a United States high school curriculum for chemistry, \"The Chemical Bond Approach\", which received international attention.\n\nIn 1963, Benfey was invited by the American Chemical Society to become the editor of \"Chemistry\" magazine, for high school students. From January 1964 to 1978, Benfey edited a highly respected magazine. He increased its publication five-fold, reaching as many as 30,000 students and teachers. The magazine acted as a model for similar publications internationally.\nOne of the Benfey's publications in \"Chemistry\" was a model of an extended periodic table, sometimes referred to as the periodic snail. First published in 1964, it explicitly showed the location of lanthanides and actinides. The elements form a two-dimensional spiral, starting from hydrogen, and folding their way around two peninsulars, the transition metals, and lanthanides and actinides. A superactinide island is already slotted in.\n\nBenfey was active in the Division of History of Chemistry (HIST) of the American Chemical Society, serving as chair of the division in 1966.\nBenfey continued to publish articles and books on the history of chemistry, writing about scientists such as Archibald Scott Couper, Lothar Meyer, Jacobus Henricus van 't Hoff, and Alexander William Williamson. He wrote \"Names and Structures of Organic Molecules\" (Wiley, 1966) and \"Introduction to Organic Reaction Mechanisms\", the first in the Interface series of books by the NSF's Advisory Council on College Chemistry (McGraw-Hill, 1970).\n\nIn 1970, Benfey and his family spent a year at Kwansei Gakuin University in\nNishinomiya, Japan enabling him to deepen his interest in the history of science in the Far East. Benfey studied the use of regular solid geometry in Japan, relating geometry, chemical structure, and origami techniques. He also worked on translating an account of the history of Chinese science by Yabuuchi Kiyoshi.\n\nAfter their return, the Benfeys were approached by Grirnsley Hobbs, who eventually convinced them to move to Guilford College in North Carolina in 1973. Benfey recruited David MacInnes and they began teaching continuing education courses on basic chemistry in the evening, targeting nearby Ciba-Geigy employees. Benfey also taught \nhistory of science courses that met the science requirement for non-science\nmajors. His students included Frances Moore Lappé, David Rhees of the Bakken Museum, and William R. Newman. He taught interdisciplinary classes with a variety of colleagues.\n\nBenfey formally retired from Guilford College in 1988, as the Dana Professor of Chemistry and History of Science, Emeritus.\n\nAfter moving to Philadelphia in 1989, Benfey became an adjunct professor in History and Sociology of Science at the University of Pennsylvania. He also became the editor of the \"Bulletin for the History of Chemistry\" (1988-1995) of the Beckman Center for the History of Chemistry (later the \"Chemical Heritage Magazine\" of the Chemical Heritage Foundation). \nHe served on advisory boards for \"The Scientist\" magazine (1986-1996), \"The Chemical Sciences in Society\" (1989-1998) and \"Foundations of Chemistry\" (1998- ).\n\nHe continued to write, translate and publish. His translations include \"The Japanese and Western Science\" by Masao Watanabe (from German to English, originally in Japanese), \"The History of the International Chemical Industry\" by Fred Aftalion (from French to English), and Vladimir Prelog's autobiography \"My 132 Semesters of Chemistry Studies\" (German to English). \nBenfey wrote about a number of scientists, particularly Carl Schorlemmer, August Wilhelm von Hofmann, and Robert Burns Woodward.\n\nIn 1996, the Benfeys moved to the Friends Homes at Guilford, a Quaker retirement community. Benfey published \"Robert Burns Woodward. Architect and Artist in the World of Molecules\" with co-editor Peter Morris in 2001. He continued to serve as editor at large of the \"Chemical Heritage Magazine\" until 2014. He gathered and published four volumes of \"The Experience of War: Residents of Friends Homes Tell Their Stories\" (2009, 2010, 2012, 2014).\n\nRachel Benfey survived a stroke in 2005, and died on 22 September 2013.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "26348137", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26348137", "title": "Peter Davis (theater historian)", "text": "Peter Davis (theater historian)\n\nPeter A. Davis is a renowned theatre historian, actor, director, and educator with specialties in early American theatre, Restoration theatre and Eighteenth Century cultural history. His research interests include the economic and social influences of theatre in addition to First Amendment and censorship issues related to live performance. Before retiring in 2017, Professor Davis served on the faculty at the University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign, where for many years he was the Director of Graduate Studies and Chair of the Doctoral Program in Theatre. Prior faculty appointments include Tufts University (1987-1991) and the University of Oregon (1981-1987). His articles and reviews are found in the leading theatre journals, including, \"Theatre Survey\", \"Theatre History Studies\", \"Journal of American Drama and Theatre\", \"Modern Drama\", \"Theatre Research International\", \"Restoration & 18th century Studies\", \"Journal of American History\" and \"Theatre Journal\". He was a major contributor to \"The Cambridge History of American Theatre\" (1999), winner of the Barnard Hewitt Award from the American Society for Theatre Research and the Special Jury Award of the Theatre Library Association. He also contributed major essays to \"The American Stage\", Engle and Miller, eds. (Cambridge), \"The Cambridge Guide to American Theatre\", Wilmeth, ed. and \"Inventing Times Square\", William R. Taylor, ed. (Russell Sage Foundation). He was a 1988 recipient of an NEH research grant to study in effects of the Panic of 1873 on the American theatre industry.\n\nHe is the author of \"From \"Androboros\" to the First Amendment: A History of America's First Play\" (University of Iowa Press, 2015). Another book, \"The Stage in Crisis\", on the economic history of the American stage in the Nineteenth Century is due out in 2017 published by Palgrave-Macmillan. He is also the author of the blog, \"Eidophusikon: Today in Theatre History.\" Additionally, Professor Davis has delivered numerous academic papers at leading conferences and is a frequent and popular lecturer on American theatre history around the world, including recent presentations in Canada, England, Spain, Greece and The Netherlands.\n\nIn addition to his academic work, he is also an award-winning stage director, actor and dramaturg, having worked with a number of major theatre companies in San Francisco, Los Angeles and especially Chicago, including Remy Bumppo, Defiant, Strawdog, Writer’s Theatre, and Steppenwolf. In 2007, he acted in the original world-premiere production of \"\" at the Steppenwolf Theatre, performing the role of Bill on stage as Jeff Perry’s understudy. Awards include the 2006 revival of Gore Vidal’s \"The Best Man\" with Remy Bumppo (After Dark Award for Best Ensemble, Jeff Nomination for Best Ensemble) and \"The Philadelphia Story\" (2008 Jeff Nomination for Best Production), also with Remy Bumppo. He served as the resident dramaturg at Remy Bumppo Theatre Company from 2004 to 2008, and was the dramaturg for \"Sonia Flew\" at Steppenwolf in 2006 and for \"The Turn of the Screw\" at Writer’s Theatre in 2007.\n\nAs a director, he has worked on dozens of productions, winning both regional and national awards from the American College Theatre Festival. In 1985, his production of \"Excursion Fare\" was performed at the Kennedy Center in Washington D.C. as the ACTF recipient of Best Original Play. He also won the ACTF’s Best Director of the Year award from Region IX. He is a member of Actors’ Equity Association, Literary Managers and Dramaturgs Association, and The Society for Stage Directors and Choreographers. He is also one of the co-founders of \"BrandZOO\", which was featured in an article on Business Wire in October 2000. Peter A. Davis attended Bowdoin College, Stanford University and the University of Southern California, where he received an M.A. in Drama (Directing) in 1977. He earned his PhD in Communication-Drama, also from USC, in 1981. In 2013, Davis was elected an ensemble member of Remy Bumppo Theatre Company in Chicago. He appeared in their fall 2014 production of Maxwell Anderson's \"Both Your Houses\" performing the role of Simeon Grey. In 2016, he performed the role of Colonel Pickering in Remy Bumppo's staging of \"Pygmalion\".\n\nDavis has appeared in several films as an actor. He starred in \"Press Start\" (2007) as Count Nefarious Vile and reprised this role for the 2011 sequel \"Press Start 2 Continue\". He also lent his voice to the popular Sim Film \"Freespace 2\" and for \"Rampage (Korkusuz)\", where he is the voice of Ziya/Commander.\n"}
{"id": "24959", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24959", "title": "Proteinoid", "text": "Proteinoid\n\nProteinoids, or thermal proteins, are protein-like, often cross-linked molecules formed abiotically from amino acids. Sidney W. Fox initially proposed that they may have been precursors to the first living cells (protocells). The term was also in the 1960s to describe peptides that are shorter than twenty amino acids found in hydrolysed protein, but this term is no longer commonly used.\n\nIn trying to uncover the intermediate stages of abiogenesis, scientist Sidney W. Fox in the 1950s and 1960s, studied the spontaneous formation of peptide structures under conditions that might plausibly have existed early in Earth's history. He demonstrated that amino acids could spontaneously form small chains called peptides. In one of his experiments, he allowed amino acids to dry out as if puddled in a warm, dry spot in prebiotic conditions. He found that, as they dried, the amino acids formed long, often cross-linked, thread-like microscopic polypeptide globules, he named \"proteinoid microspheres\".\n\nThe abiotic polymerization of amino acids into proteins through the formation of peptide bonds was thought to occur only at temperatures over 140 °C. However, the biochemist Sidney Walter Fox and his co-workers discovered that phosphoric acid acted as a catalyst for this reaction. They were able to form protein-like chains from a mixture of 18 common amino acids at 70 °C in the presence of phosphoric acid, and dubbed these protein-like chains proteinoids. Fox later found naturally occurring proteinoids similar to those he had created in his laboratory in lava and cinders from Hawaiian volcanic vents and determined that the amino acids present polymerized due to the heat of escaping gases and lava. Other catalysts have since been found; one of them, amidinium carbodiimide, is formed in primitive Earth experiments and is effective in dilute aqueous solutions.\n\nWhen present in certain concentrations in aqueous solutions, proteinoids form small microspheres. This is because some of the amino acids incorporated into proteinoid chains are more hydrophobic than others, and so proteinoids cluster together like droplets of oil in water. These structures exhibit a few characteristics of living cells:\n\n\nFox thought that the microspheres may have provided a cell compartment within which organic molecules could have become concentrated and protected from the outside environment during the process of chemical evolution.\n\nProteinoid microspheres are today being considered for use in pharmaceuticals, providing microscopic biodegradable capsules in which to package and deliver oral drugs.\n\nIn another experiment using a similar method to set suitable conditions for life to form, Fox collected volcanic material from a cinder cone in Hawaii. He discovered that the temperature was over just beneath the surface of the cinder cone, and suggested that this might have been the environment in which life was created—molecules could have formed and then been washed through the loose volcanic ash and into the sea. He placed lumps of lava over amino acids derived from methane, ammonia and water, sterilized all materials, and baked the lava over the amino acids for a few hours in a glass oven. A brown, sticky substance formed over the surface and when the lava was drenched in sterilized water a thick, brown liquid leached out. It turned out that the amino acids had combined to form proteinoids, and the proteinoids had combined to form small spheres. Fox called these \"microspheres\". His protobionts were not cells, although they formed clumps and chains reminiscent of bacteria. Based upon such experiments, Colin Pittendrigh stated in December 1967 that \"laboratories will be creating a living cell within ten years,\" a remark that reflected the typical contemporary levels of ignorance of the complexity of cell structures.\n\nFox has likened the amino acid globules to cells, and proposed it bridged the macromolecule to cell transition. However, his hypothesis was later dismissed as proteinoids are not proteins, they feature mostly non-peptide bonds and amino acid cross-linkages not present in living organisms. Furthermore, they have no compartmentalization and there is no information content in the molecules.\n\nAlthough their role as an evolutionary precursor has been superseded, the hypothesis was a catalyst to further investigate other mechanisms that could have brought about abiogenesis, such as the RNA world, PAH world, Iron–sulfur world, and protocell hypotheses.\n\n"}
{"id": "2904262", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2904262", "title": "Purple Line (ceasefire line)", "text": "Purple Line (ceasefire line)\n\nThe purple line was the ceasefire line between Israel and Syria after the 1967 Six-Day War and serves as the de facto border between the two countries.\n\nSyria gained independence from France in 1946 and on May 14, 1948 the British withdrew from Palestine as Israel declared its independence. Syrian forces participated in the 1948 Arab–Israeli War between Arab forces and the newly established State of Israel. In 1949, armistice agreements were signed and a provisional border between Syria and Israel was delineated (based on the 1923 international border; see \"San Remo conference\"). Syrian and Israeli forces clashed on numerous occasions in the spring of 1951. The hostilities, which stemmed from Syrian opposition to an Israeli drainage project in the demilitarized zone, ceased on May 15, after intercession by the United Nations Security Council.\nIn June 1967 after battling Syria, Jordan and Egypt in the Six-Day War, Israel captured the entire length of the Golan Heights including its principal city Quneitra. The resulting ceasefire line (dubbed the \"Purple Line\" as it was drawn on the UN's maps) was supervised by a series of positions and observation posts manned by observers of the United Nations Truce Supervision Organisation and became the new effective border between Israel and Syria.\nIn a surprise attack consisting of a massive armored thrust, the Syrians crossed the Purple Line into the Golan Heights during the 1973 Yom Kippur War. After several days of very heavy fighting on the Golan they were pushed back deeper into Syria and Israel conquered further territory inside Syria beyond the Purple Line by the time a ceasefire was reached. In the disengagements negotiations after the war, Israel and Syria agreed on May 31, 1974 to pull back their respective forces on the Golan Heights to the Purple Line. On the same day, a United Nations buffer zone was set up and the United Nations Disengagement Observer Force Zone (UNDOF) was established by the United Nations after the adoption of UN Security Council Resolution 350.\n\n"}
{"id": "54586551", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54586551", "title": "Qermez Dere", "text": "Qermez Dere\n\nQermez Dere is an early Neolithic settlement in the northwestern edges of Tal Afar in Nineveh Governorate, Iraq. This Archaeological site was discovered in 1980s during a rescue operation.\nIt covers an area of about x and forms a tall tell. The buildings were made of primitive Mudbricks, which is not a perennial material, and are mostly destroyed, however archaeologists have excavated a one-room structure in good shape. The room's corners are rounded, showing the care that went into its construction. Also vestiges of non-structural clay columns have been found, suggesting primitive instances of furniture.\n\nRadiocarbon dating has estimated that Qermez Dere was built between c. and .\n"}
{"id": "135454", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=135454", "title": "San Felipe, Texas", "text": "San Felipe, Texas\n\nSan Felipe ( ), also known as San Felipe de Austin, is a town in Austin County, Texas, United States. The town was the social, economic, and political center of the early Stephen F. Austin colony. The population was 747 at the 2010 census.\n\nIn 1823, John McFarland operated a ferry on the Brazos River near this location. In the fall of the same year, the site was chosen by Stephen F. Austin, with the help of Felipe Enrique Neri, Baron de Bastrop, to be the main site in Texas for American colonization. Founded in 1824 as San Felipe de Austin, the town served as the capital of Stephen F. Austin's first colony and the founding site of the Texas Rangers. James (Jack) Cummins was appointed as the first \"alcalde\" or mayor.\n\nBy 1828, San Felipe had been surveyed, with \"Calle Commercio\" laid out as the main commercial street. Austin and his secretary, Samuel May Williams, both resided in log cabins on the square. There were about 30 buildings, and at least one of these was a wood-framed structure. Also on the square was the tavern of Jonathan Peyton. By 1835, the town's population had increased to around 600. It was home to the first post office and one of the earliest newspapers and land offices in Texas. San Felipe was second only to San Antonio as a commercial center of Texas.\n\nThe Texas conventions of 1832 and 1833 and the Consultation of November 3, 1835, were held here. San Felipe acted as the capital for the provisional government of Texas until the Convention of 1836. The town was burned in 1836 to prevent the Mexican army from capturing it, and rebuilt a few years later, but never regained its popularity. The oldest post office in Texas is located here (ZIP code 77473).\n\nSan Felipe is located in eastern Austin County at , along the west bank of the Brazos River. The town limits extend south below Interstate 10, with access at Exit 723. Sealy is to the west, and downtown Houston is to the east. Stephen F. Austin State Park is located in the northern part of the town.\n\nAccording to the United States Census Bureau, the town has a total area of , of which, of it is land and is covered by water.\n\nThe climate in this area is characterized by hot, humid summers and generally mild to cool winters. According to the Köppen climate classification system, San Felipe has a humid subtropical climate, \"Cfa\" on climate maps.\n\nThe population was 747 at the 2010 census.\n\nAs of the census of 2000, 868 people, 312 households, and 234 families resided in the town. The population density was 103.7 people per square mile (40.0/km²). The 347 housing units averaged 41.5/sq mi (16.0/km²). The racial makeup of the town was 60.83% White, 34.56% African American, 0.35% Native American, 3.00% from other races, and 1.27% from two or more races. |Hispanics or Latinos of any race were 9.45% of the population.\n\nOf the 312 households, 29.8% had children under the age of 18 living with them, 57.7% were married couples living together, 13.5% had a female householder with no husband present, and 24.7% were not families. About 23.1% of all households were made up of individuals and 8.3% had someone living alone who was 65 years of age or older. The average household size was 2.78 and the average family size was 3.26.\n\nIn the town, the population was distributed as 27.8% under the age of 18, 8.1% from 18 to 24, 22.9% from 25 to 44, 27.0% from 45 to 64, and 14.3% who were 65 years of age or older. The median age was 39 years. For every 100 females, there were 102.3 males. For every 100 females age 18 and over, there were 92.3 males.\n\nThe median income for a household in the town was $38,203, and for a family was $43,558. Males had a median income of $31,667 versus $22,500 for females. The per capita income for the town was $17,169. About 9.1% of families and 9.1% of the population were below the poverty line, including 3.1% of those under age 18 and 16.0% of those age 65 or over.\n\nSan Felipe is served by the Sealy Independent School District.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "53731441", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53731441", "title": "Thyestes (Euripides)", "text": "Thyestes (Euripides)\n\nThyestes () is a lost tragedy by Euripides. The play may have concerned the myth of Thyestes' seduction of Areope, the wife of his brother Atreus, and Atreus' subsequent revenge on Thyestes, killing his children and serving them to him at a feast.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "6823013", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6823013", "title": "Timeline of the 2006 Lebanon War (September–October)", "text": "Timeline of the 2006 Lebanon War (September–October)\n\nThis is a timeline of the 2006 Lebanon War during September.\n"}
{"id": "39074759", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39074759", "title": "Villem Raam", "text": "Villem Raam\n\nVillem Raam (30 May 1910 – 21 May 1996) was an Estonian art historian, art critic and conservator-restorer. His work in documenting and preserving the cultural heritage of Estonia, not least during the Soviet occupation of Estonia, contributed significantly to the understanding of art history and cultural heritage in Estonia.\n\nVillem Raam was born in Pärnu and studied art history at Tartu University. In 1938 he produced his first scholarly work on medieval Estonian architecture. Following the occupation of Estonia, in July 1940 Raam became the director of the State Art Museum of Soviet Estonia; however, in June 1941 he was arrested by Soviet authorities and deported to Siberia. He would remain in labour camp for fifteen years. He was allowed to return to Estonia in 1956 and was able to continue working in his academic field, first as an employee at an institution with the purpose of registering architectural monuments. In 1957 he was admitted and eventually made a member of the board of the Estonian SSR Artists' Union. Subsequently he dedicated the rest of his life to art history, conservation issues and art criticism. Among his tangible contributions are the restoration of St. Nicholas' church in Tallinn, which he managed to convince the authorities to transform into a museum of ecclesiastical art rather than an initially planned \"museum of atheism\".\n\nIn 1996, Raam was awarded the Order of the National Coat of Arms, 3rd class. Between June 2010 and May 2011, an exhibition his architectural photographs was made at the Art Museum of Estonia to mark the centenary of his birth.\n"}
{"id": "43410290", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43410290", "title": "William Hung (sinologist)", "text": "William Hung (sinologist)\n\nWilliam Hung (; 27 October 189322 December 1980), was a Chinese educator, sinologist, and historian who taught for many years at Yenching University, Peking, which was China's leading Christian university, and at Harvard University. He is known for bringing modern standards of scholarship to the study of Chinese classical writings, for editing the Harvard-Yenching Index Series, and for his biography, \"Tu Fu: China's Greatest Poet\". He became a Christian while a student at the Anglo-Chinese College in Fuzhou, then went to Ohio Wesleyan University, Delaware, Ohio, Columbia University, and Union Theological Seminary. On his return to China, he became Professor and Dean of Yenching University, where he was instrumental in establishing the Harvard-Yenching Institute. He came to Harvard in 1946 and spent the rest of his life in Cambridge, Massachusetts, teaching and mentoring students.\n\nWilliam Hung was the oldest of six children. His father gave him the \"school name\" Hong Ye (\"Great Enterprise\"), and then when he left for the United States he took the given name William. He married Rhoda Kong in 1919, and the couple had three children, Ruth, Gertrude, and Agnes.\n\nWilliam Hung was born on 27 October 1893 in Fuzhou. In 1901 Hung traveled with his family from Fuzhou to Shandong, where Hung's father was a county magistrate for the Qing government. He began his Confucian studies there at the age of four, but soon also began to read traditional novels. He entered the Shandong Teachers College after scoring number one on the entrance exam. He was awarded a monthly stipend of two taels of silver, but was forced to transfer to a Resident Guest School because the local Shandong students taunted him for his southern accent and resented the advantage of his head start in Confucian learning.\n\nOn his return to Fuzhou, he entered the Anglo-Chinese College, a Christian school run by Methodist missionaries. Christianity, however, had little initial appeal. Hung set out to persuade his fellow students this foreign doctrine was inferior to Confucian teachings by publicly comparing the \"worst parts\" of Christianity to the \"best parts\" of the Chinese classics. He escaped expulsion only when the principal's wife, Elizabeth Gowdy, came to his defense. In response to Hung's request to return and help defend Confucianism against the foreigners, Hung's father returned to Fuzhou. When he visited the cemetery to pay respects to the family graves, he caught pneumonia and died. Hung was devastated. Mrs. Gowdy won him to Christianity when she explained she did not believe the concept popular among some Christians, namely good heathen men such as Hung's father would go to hell, or, for that matter, she was not sure there was such a place. The Bible, she argued, was like a feast at which you would choose which food that was healthy and attractive and which was not; in reading the Bible you should pay attention to the parts you found beneficial, not the contradictions and mistakes that had also accumulated over the centuries. Hung, who had also heard the liberal Sherwood Eddy preach, was converted to this liberal interpretation of the Christian message.\n\nAfter graduating in 1916, Hung's knowledge of English and German gave him the choice of several jobs in government agencies dealing with foreigners, but a wealthy American wrote from St. Louis offering to pay for his study in the United States. The Fuzhou Methodist Bishop James Bashford recommended Hung enroll at the Ohio Wesleyan University, where he obtained a Bachelor of Arts degree in 1917. In 1919, Hung obtained a master's degree from Columbia University, where he studied under James Harvey Robinson, leader of the New History, and in 1920, a degree from Union Theological Seminary in New York.\n\nIn 1919, Hung, through their common work with the Chinese Students' Association and the Intercollegiate YMCA, met Rhoda Kong, who had left China at an early age and grown up in Hawaii. They soon married, and their two children, Gertrude and Ruth, were born in 1919 and 1921.\n\nFrom 1921 to 1922, Hung served as Chinese Secretary for the Board of Foreign Missions of Methodist Episcopal Church giving more than one hundred lectures throughout the United States. Once, when he had finished his talk, a member of the audience told him that his speech was so exciting that should take this as a career. Hung was personable, funny and succinct and soon became a popular figure on the lecture circuit. In 1922, Hung taught at DePauw University, in Indiana as Horizon Lecturer, and In 1923 he became the Acting Head of the History Department of Yenching University.\n\nWhile in the United States, Hung became a member of the New York City Civic Club, the Clergy Club, the China Institute, and Phi Beta Kappa. He also joined the American Historical Association and the Berlin Gesellschaft Fur Kirchengeschichte (Church History Society).\n\nYenching University, which had opened in 1919, under the leadership of President John Leighton Stuart set out to become the leading Christian university in China. Hung was one of the first scholars trained in the West Stuart recruited. Hung joined Yenching in 1922 as a part-time lecturer in history, also serving as the Chinese pastor in a Methodist mission for students from Fujian in Peking. As he became a full-time instructor, then head of the department, and then Dean of the college his strong ambition was to make the History Department known for combining knowledge of classical Chinese sources with up to date training in western scholarship. He announced his ambition to raise Yenching's academic quality and to \"make it the peer of Peita\" (Peking University).\n\nThe establishment of the Harvard-Yenching Institute was a major project for Hung and President Stuart. An American industrialist had bequeathed a substantial endowment for the support of Christian higher education in Asia, but Harvard had moved to use it to establish Chinese studies on its own campus, with a supporting program in Peking. Stuart and Hung were determined to make Yenching the home for the Chinese side of the new development though Harvard leaders were leaning toward Peking University on the assumption a Christian missionary university would be second rate. In the end, Harvard agreed to make Yenching their partner, but not before Hung helped to overcome a possible stumbling block. In 1925, a Yenching student named Wang came to Hung's campus residence late at night to report a matter of patriotic concern. The previous year Wang had acted as interpreter for Langdon Warner, a Harvard professor of art history who had been travelling on an exploratory trip to the cave libraries at Dunhuang. Wang had accidentally come across Warner experimenting with cheesecloth and glycerin to remove unique murals, and now Wang reported Warner had returned with a large supply of those materials. Knowing Warner was a key negotiator for Harvard and he was in secret talks with nearby Peking University, Hung instructed Wang to act as if nothing had happened, but also arranged with a colleague in the Ministry of Education to instruct every local official along the route Warner was to be warmly welcomed, but never left alone at any historic site.\n\nBy 1927 Hung felt he could brag Yenching no longer had to \"share the disgrace of inferior Chinese courses, a charge so frequently made against missionary education institutions.\" Yet, he resigned as Dean at the height of the Nationalist Party's drive to unite the country, partly because he came to feel he did not have enough time to know the students or faculty, and partly some students felt his methods were too rigid and Americanized. He suspected even President Stuart felt his discipline alienated students who were strong nationalists or communists, perhaps egged on by the older teachers of Chinese.\n\nIn 1928, as part of the new Institute's activities, Harvard University invited Hung to Cambridge, where he offered \"The Far East Since 1793.\" Though it was taught in the Department of Far Eastern Languages, not the Department of History, it the first survey course of Chinese history to be taught at Harvard. The following year he returned to Yenching to resume his leadership of the Department of History and the Institute of Chinese Studies, and was in charge of Harvard-Yenching Institute grants.\n\nIn the 1930s, Hung put his energies into training students and publishing his research. He often met with students at his campus home, which was built to his specifications with an entrance directly into his study, so as not to disturb his family. His bibliography lists more than forty publications after he left the Yenching administration. During his stay at Harvard, Hung had found the lack of bibliographies and indexes an obstacle to training students in Sinology. He determined to use scientific methods to establish reliable texts and create indexes to the most important classical works. Hung wrote introductions to the indexes which were in many cases the most thorough studies on the subject. The series eventually totaled sixty-four volumes. Hung won the 1937 Prix Stanislas Julien for the preface to the \"Liji\" index, becoming the second Chinese to receive this award. An even more ambitious project was the preface to the concordance for the \"Spring and Autumn Annals\", a work which Confucius had been credited with editing centuries after its composition. By showing solar eclipses in the text corresponded to modern calculations, Hung demonstrated the work was a true record of its time, not a later text. Hung finished work on the volume while Japanese war planes dropped their bombs only a few hundred yards from the Yenching campus.\n\nAmong the students Hung trained at Yenching in these years were many who went on to teach at American universities, including Kenneth K.S. Chen, Fang Chao-ying, Tu Lien-chieh, James T.C. Liu, and Teng Ssu-yu.\n\nAfter the Japanese Army captured Peking in July 1937, Hung continued his sinological research under increasingly difficult circumstances. In 1940, at the age of 47, Hung published \"Index to Du Fu's Poetry\". In 1940 Hung returned to Ohio Wesleyan to accept an honorary doctorate. In 1941, the Japanese Army occupied the Yenching campus. Hung and his colleagues secretly worked at the Sino-French University (, l'Université Franco-Chinoise) to publish several further volumes in the index series.\n\nWhen war with the United States was declared in December 1941, the Japanese army arrested 12 Yenching University professors, including Hung. They were roughly interrogated, beaten, kept in unheated cells, and fed little. Although they were eventually released, they were not allowed to return to campus. Hung refused to cooperate with the Japanese.\n\nAfter the Allied victory in August 1945, Hung returned to the devastated Yenching campus. He thought of going to the United States, first to catch up with scholarly developments and secondly to seek support for Yenching. Harvard University invited him to lecture and Hung left China in April 1946. The University of Hawaii hired him in the spring of 1947 as visiting professor. While he still intended to return to China, Civil War had broken out and the economy deteriorated sharply. That summer, he decided to move back to the Harvard–Yenching Institute in Cambridge, Massachusetts and, with the outbreak of the Korean War, Hung completely abandoned the idea of returning to China.\n\nThe decision to give up home and Yenching University made him miserable but he felt his will has been exhausted. At the age of fifty, he had to find the courage to meet the challenges of an unknown world. In 1948, the Harvard-Yenching Institute made him a Fellow but did not give him a formal teaching position. Hung and his wife bought a house close by the university, and rented out rooms and collected meager social benefits to survive. While living abroad, Hung still longed for his homeland. He often told friends \"I love America, I love the motherland, the motherland of my parents.\"\n\nIn 1952 Harvard University Press published his \"Tu Fu: China's Greatest Poet\" He became Nanyang University of Singapore Board member in 1958. Hung offered Du Fu classes or lectures at Harvard, Yale University, the University of Pittsburgh, University of Hawaii.\n\nAmong the scholars he influenced with his teaching and attention were David Nivison and Joseph Fletcher. Francis Cleaves, whom he had met in China before the war, became a close friend in Cambridge. Every afternoon at three, the two would meet and have tea. Cleaves, a specialist in Mongolian, introduced Hung to \"The Secret History of the Mongols\". Cleaves disagreed with the conclusions in Hung's article on the transmission of the text, but out of a sense of respect did not publish his own translation until after Hung's death.\n\nHung Ye lived in Cambridge and was actively involved a prayer fellowship in New York. He also informally assisted Harvard East Asian Studies.Living abroad, he said looking back at his life: \"In my life of scholarship, my method was the scientific method and I am completely confident that it was not wrong.\" At the age of 86, when he mounted the podium to lecture for the last time, he said \"Now the 'Gang of Four' has been overthrown, there can be academic engagement with tradition.\"\n\nIn March 1980, Hung fell during his morning exercises, resulting in a fractured elbow, then physical deterioration. The night of December 16, Hung suffered sudden confusion, talking with the people around him in the Fuzhou dialect. On December 22, 1980, Hung died at the age of 87.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "14738319", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14738319", "title": "William John Fitzpatrick", "text": "William John Fitzpatrick\n\nWilliam John Fitzpatrick (31 August 1830 – 24 December 1895) was an Irish historian.\n\nHe was born at Thomas Street, Dublin. \nHis father, John FitzPatrick, was a successful merchant or trader who left his son a competence. \nFitzPatrick was educated first at a Protestant school, and later at Clongowes Wood College, co. Kildare, the well-known Jesuit School. \nHe early displayed a taste for recondite and somewhat morbid investigation into the secret history of eminent personages. In 1855 appeared his first book, \"The Life, Times, and Contemporaries of Lord Cloncurry;\" the style was 'puerile, involved, and turgid,' revealing a defect which the author never overcame. \nBut his next book, \"The Life and Times of Bishop Doyle\" (1861), was much more successful, and, besides giving a vivid picture of a powerful personality, it provides a useful contribution to Irish nineteenth-century history.\nOn 3 November 1855, FitzPatrick commenced a series of letters to \"Notes and Queries,\" 'Who wrote the Waverley Novels ?' It was a weak attempt to foster a charge of unacknowledged plagiarism on Sir Walter Scott, and to claim for the novelist's brother, Thomas Scott, the chief credit for a large part of the famous Waverley series; but after four letters had appeared, the editor declined to publish any more. FitzPatrick continued to pursue his theory with pertinacity, and in 1856 published his material as a pamphlet. \nIt reached a second edition in the same year. \nHis hopeless claim in behalf of Thomas Scott was repudiated in a letter to the \"Times\" of 5 June 1857 by the three daughters of that gentleman. \nIn 1859, FitzPatrick published \"The Friends, Foes, and Adventures of Lady Morgan,\" and in 1860 \"Lady Morgan, her Career, Literary and Personal;\" these were followed by \"Anecdotal Memoirs of Archbishop Whately\" (1864).\nIn his \"Lord Edward Fitzgerald, or Notes on the Cornwallis Papers\" (1859), FitzPatrick first hit upon the vein of inquiry which he afterwards worked with conspicuous success that of investigating the inner history of Ireland before the union. \nIn 1866, in \"The Sham Squire,\" he followed up the story of Lord Edward FitzGerald's betrayal. \nUpwards of sixteen thousand copies were sold. \nIn 1867, in \"Ireland before the Union,\" he pursued the same subject; but this volume was much less successful than its predecessor. It contains, however, some curious extracts from the privately printed diary of John Scott, 1st Earl of Clonmell.\nFor some years after 1867, FitzPatrick's productiveness was checked, though \"The Life and Times of Dr. Lanigan\" (1873) and \"The Life of Father Tom Burke\" (1885) proved that he had not abandoned his interest in ecclesiastical biography. A \"Life of Charles Lever,\" which appeared in 1879, was not felicitous. \nIn 1888, however, he published \"The Correspondence of Daniel O'Connell, with his Life and Times,\" a work of exceptional value and importance. \nIt was reviewed by Gladstone in the \"Nineteenth Century\".\nEqually valuable as a contribution to history was his \"Secret Service under Pitt\" (1892), a work involving infinite labour among the Irish State Papers of the period, and displaying, even more fully than \"The Sham Squire,\" FitzPatrick's detective skill in piecing together scattered items of evidence. \nThis was FitzPatrick's last work of importance. \nIn 1895, shortly before his death, he published anonymously \"Memories of Father [James] Healy\", the well-known wit ; but the book was quite unworthy of its subject, partly from the difficulty of communicating the subtle charm of Healy's personality to the printed page, and partly from the writer's defective sense of humour. \"A History of the Dublin Catholic Cemeteries,\" which he did not live to complete, was published after his death by the catholic cemeteries committee in 1900.\nFitzPatrick was long actively interested in the work of the Royal Irish Academy and the Royal Dublin Society. \nIn 1870, he was appointed honorary professor of history at the Royal Hibernian Academy of Arts. \nHis book on O'Connell won recognition at Rome, and he received from Pope Leo XIII the insignia of the order of St. Gregory the Great. \nHe was also accorded the honorary degree of LL.D. by the Royal University of Ireland. \nHe served twice as high sheriff for the co. Longford. \nFitzPatrick died at his residence, 48 Fitzwilliam Square, Dublin, after a short illness.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "16641550", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16641550", "title": "Włodzimierz Jastrzębski", "text": "Włodzimierz Jastrzębski\n\nWłodzimierz Jastrzębski (born 3 September 1939 in Bydgoszcz) is a Polish historian, a retired professor of Kazimierz Wielki University in Bydgoszcz. He specializes in Polish history during World War II. He studied Bloody Sunday, a sequence of events that took place in Bydgoszcz (), a Polish city with a sizable German minority, between 3 and 4 September 1939, immediately after the German invasion of Poland, supporting the \"traditional Polish POV\" until recently, when he cancelled his results.\n\nJastrzębski supervised seven doctoral students.\n\n"}
{"id": "46719399", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46719399", "title": "Yusuke Hashiba", "text": "Yusuke Hashiba\n\nHe was an expert in the Edo period of the samurai, and was also particularly knowledgeable about Japanese folklore, in which he has been referenced in several publications. From the 1880s he was much involved with the Anthropological Association in Tokyo, publishing a number of works, and was one of the founders of the Ou Anthropological Association in November 1890.\n"}
