{"id": "3452380", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3452380", "title": "Alain Gerbault", "text": "Alain Gerbault\n\nAlain Jacques Georges Marie Gerbault (1893 – 1941) was a French aviator and tennis champion, who made a circumnavigation of the world as a single-handed sailor. He eventually settled in the islands of south Pacific Ocean, where he wrote several books about the islanders' way of life. As a tennis player he was ranked the fifth on the French rankings in 1923.\n\nAlain Gerbault was born on November 17, 1893, in Laval, to an upper-middle-class family. He spent much of his youth in Dinard, near the ancient port of St. Malo; he spent his summers playing tennis and football, as well as hunting and fishing. At college he studied civil engineering. He had a brother with whom they owned a lime factory in Laval.\n\nAt the age of twenty-one, Gerbault joined in the Flying Corps, serving as an officer; by the end of the war, he was a decorated hero. After the war, he took up tennis, becoming the French champion, and also bridge, at which he achieved an international rating. Despite his achievements, he was still searching for something do to with his life, and considered attempting to fly the Atlantic Ocean.\n\nWhile visiting England in 1921 to play tennis, he came across \"Firecrest\", an old British-designed 39-foot racing/cruising gaff sloop, at Southampton. He had already been toying with the idea of long-distance sailing, so he purchased the boat and spent a year or so sailing her around Cannes.\n\nThe boat in which the circumnavigation was made was called Firecrest. It was an English racing cruiser designed by Dixon Kemp and built by P. T. Harris at Rowhedge, Essex, in 1892. She was 39 feet overall, 31 feet 6 inches on the waterline, with a beam of 8 feet 6 inches, and displaced 12 tons. She was long and narrow, with a deep keel and three and a half tons of lead for ballast.\n\nOn June 6, 1923, Gerbault set off from Gibraltar in his boat Firecrest to make a single-handed circumnavigation of the world. The crossing of the Atlantic in a small boat was still considered a major and risky undertaking, and Gerbault was not well prepared for the voyage, either in terms of equipment or experience. Although the passage was extremely arduous, and troubled by a number of equipment failures, he made it to New York after 101 days at sea. Although he was not the first person to single-handedly sail the Atlantic, he was given a hero's welcome, and was awarded the Blue Water Medal by the Cruising Club of America for his achievement. While in New York, he started his book \"The Fight of the Firecrest\". Leaving the boat behind, he made a trip home to France during which he was awarded the Légion d'honneur for his voyage.\n\n\"Firecrest\" was given a major refit in New York, including a conversion from gaff to bermuda rig. In September, 1923, Gerbault left New York to continue his circumnavigation, heading first for Bermuda. He arrived in Colón, Panama, on April 1, 1924, and after passing through the Panama Canal he entered and won the tennis championship of Panama. He sailed again on May 31, 1924, and after stopping in the Galapagos islands he arrived in Mangareva, in French Polynesia, after 49 days at sea. He went on to visit the Marquesas Islands, the Tuamotus, and Tahiti. At this time he began writing extensively on the history and society of the Pacific islands, and criticising the colonial exploitation of the natives.\nAfter more refitting, \"Firecrest\" set sail again on May 21, 1926, stopping in Bora Bora, Samoa, and the Wallis Islands, where the boat was badly damaged during a gale. Due to Gerbault's fame by this time, he was able to secure considerable assistance in salvaging and repairing the boat, and on December 9 Gerbault sailed again. He made his way gradually to the Torres Strait, and thence to the Indian Ocean, where he visited the Cocos (Keeling) Islands, Mauritius, and Madagascar, arriving at Durban in time for Christmas, 1927.\n\nGerbault rounded the Cape of Good Hope and sailed north, stopping in Saint Helena, Ascension, and the Cape Verde islands, where he spent ten months working on another book. On May 6, 1929, he finally sailed for home, stopping at the Azores, and on July 21 he sailed into Cherbourg harbor. He received another hero's welcome for his circumnavigation, the third single-handed circumnavigation of the world, during which he had spent 700 days at sea and covered more than 40,000 miles.\n\nGerbault soon discovered that he missed the Pacific islands, and decided to return there. \"Firecrest\" was by now well worn, so he decided to build a new boat, 34 feet long, which he christened \"Alain Gerbault\"; launched 4 June 1931 at Sartrouville, the boat had international call sign O.Z.Y.U, hence the title of his last book, published posthumously. He sailed again for the South Pacific, and vanished from the public eye, spending years wandering from island to island. He wrote several books about life on the islands, and criticising the modern western way of life.\n\nGerbault died on December 16, 1941, in Dili (East Timor) of a tropical fever. His death was not widely reported until August 22, 1944, over three years later. A later report suggests that he had been imprisoned by the Japanese. In 1947, his body was recovered and buried on Bora Bora, where a monument to him was erected.\n\nAlain Gerbault's tomb in Vaitape, Bora Bora, was originally on the waterfront, but later development and building of port facilities now mean that his tomb is on the side of a market building. Local people are planning to move his tomb to new place.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "12863003", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12863003", "title": "Amazon rubber boom", "text": "Amazon rubber boom\n\nThe Amazon Rubber Boom ( , 1879 to 1912) was an important part of the economic and social history of Brazil and Amazonian regions of neighboring countries, being related to the extraction and commercialization of rubber. Centered in the Amazon Basin, the boom resulted in a large expansion of European colonization in the area, attracting immigrant workers, generating wealth, causing cultural and social transformations, and wreaking havoc upon indigenous societies. It encouraged the growth of cities such as Manaus, Porto Velho, and Belém, capitals within the respective Brazilian states of Amazonas, Rondônia and Pará; as well as the expansion of Iquitos in Peru. The rubber boom occurred largely between 1879 and 1912. There was heightened rubber production and associated activities from 1942 to 1945 during the Second World War.\n\nNatural rubber is an elastomer, also known as tree gum, India rubber, and \"caoutchouc,\" which comes from the rubber tree in tropical regions. Christopher Columbus was the one of the first Europeans to bring news of this odd substance back to Europe, but he was not the only one to report it. Around 1736, a French astronomer recalled how Amerindians used rubber to waterproof shoes and cloaks. He brought several samples of rubber back to France. Rubber was used as an eraser by scientist Joseph Priestley in England.\n\nIt was not until the 1800s that practical uses of rubber were developed and the demand for rubber began. A rubber factory that made rubber garters for women (suspenders (US) or braces (UK)) opened in Paris, France, in the year 1803. However, the material still had disadvantages: at room temperature, it was sticky. At higher temperatures, the rubber became softer and stickier, while at lower temperatures it became hard and rigid.\n\nThe South Amerindians first discovered rubber; sometime dating back to 1600BC. The Amerindians in the Amazon rainforest developed ways to extract rubber from the rubber tree (\"Hevea brasiliensis\"), a member of the Euphorbiaceae family.\n\nA white liquid called latex is extracted from the stem of the rubber tree, and contains rubber particles dispersed in an aqueous serum. The rubber, which constitutes about 35% of the latex, is chemically cis-1,4-polyisoprene ((CH)).\nLatex is practically a neutral substance, with a pH of 7.0 to 7.2. However, when it is exposed to the air for 12 to 24 hours, its pH falls and it spontaneously coagulates to form a solid mass of rubber.\n\nRubber produced in this fashion has disadvantages. For example, exposure to air causes it to mix with various materials, which is perceptible and can cause rot, as well as a temperature-dependent stickiness. Industrial treatment was developed to remove the impurities and vulcanize the rubber, a process that eliminated its undesirable qualities. This process gives it superior mechanical properties, and causes it to lose its sticky character, and become stable - resistant to solvents and variations in temperature.\n\nThe rubber boom and the associated need for a large workforce had a significant negative effect on the indigenous population across Brazil, Peru, Ecuador and Colombia. As rubber plantations grew, labor shortages increased. The owners of the plantations or rubber barons were rich, but those who collected the rubber made very little as a large amount of rubber was needed to be profitable. The rubber barons rounded up all the Indians and forced them to tap rubber out of the trees. One plantation started with 50,000 Indians but, when discovered, only 8,000 were still alive. Slavery and systematic brutality were widespread, and in some areas, 90% of the Indian population was wiped out. These rubber plantations were part of the Brazilian rubber market, which declined as rubber plantations in Southeast Asia became more effective.\n\nRoger Casement, an Irishman traveling the Putumayo region of Peru as a British consul during 1910–1911 documented the abuse, slavery, murder and use of stocks for torture against the native Indians:\n\n\"The crimes charged against many men now in the employ of the Peruvian Amazon Company are of the most atrocious kind, including murder, violation, and constant flogging.\"\n\nAccording to Wade Davis, author of \"One River:\"\n\"The horrendous atrocities that were unleashed on the Indian people of the Amazon during the height of the rubber boom were like nothing that had been seen since the first days of the Spanish Conquest.\"Rubber had catastrophic effects in parts of Upper Amazonia, but its impact should not be exaggerated nor extrapolated to the whole region. The Putumayo was a particularly horrific case. Many nearby rubber regions were not ruled by physical violence, but by the voluntary compliance implicit in patron-peon relations. Some native peoples benefited financially from their dealings with the white merchants. Others chose not to participate in the rubber business and stayed away from the main rivers. Because tappers worked in near complete isolation, they were not burdened by overseers and timetables. In Brazil (and probably elsewhere) tappers could, and did, adulterate rubber cargoes, by adding sand and flour to the rubber \"balls\", before sending them downriver. Flight into the thicket was a successful survival strategy and, because Indians were engaged in credit relations, it was a relatively common practice to vanish and work for other patrons, leaving debts unpaid.\n\nFor the first four and a half centuries following the discovery of the New World, the native populations of the Amazon Basin lived practically in isolation. The area was vast and impenetrable, no gold or precious stones had been found there, as neither colonial Brazil nor imperial Brazil was able to create incentives for development in the region. The regional economy was based on use of diverse natural resources in the region, but development was concentrated in coastal areas.\n\nThe Industrial Revolution in Europe led to demand for uses that natural rubber could satisfy. At that time, it was exclusively found in the Amazon Basin. It was a desirable commodity, valued at a high price, and thought to create wealth and dividends for whoever would dare invest in the trade.\n\nFrom the beginning of the second half of the 19th century, rubber began to exert a strong attraction to visionary entrepreneurs. The activity of latex extraction in the Amazon revealed its lucrative possibilities. Natural rubber soon achieved a place of distinction in the industries of Europe and North America, reaching a high price. This caused various people to travel to Brazil with the intention of learning more about the rubber tree and the process of latex extraction, from which they hoped to make their fortunes.\n\nBecause of the growth of rubber extraction, industrial processing and related activities, numerous cities and towns swelled on waves of immigrants. In 1855, over 2,100 tons of rubber was exported from the Amazon; a figure which reached 10,000 tons by 1879. Belém and Manaus were transformed and urbanized. Manaus was the first Brazilian city to be urbanized and the second to be electrified (the first was Campos dos Goytacazes, in Rio de Janeiro).\n\nDevelopers in Bolivia in 1846 began to promote the idea of constructing a railroad along the Madeira and Mamoré Rivers, in order to reach ports on the Atlantic Ocean for its export products. Its territory did not reach the coast.\n\nRivers had long been the key to navigation and travel through the Amazon Basin. An initial proposal was based on travel up the Mamoré in Bolivia and down the Madeira River in Brazil. But, the river course had substantial obstacles to industrial-level transport: twenty cataracts obstructed navigation. Constructing a railroad to bypass the problematic stretches of the rivers was the only solution.\n\nIn 1867, in Brazil, also trying to develop a simple way to transport the rubber, the engineers José and Francisco Keller organized a large expedition. They explored the rubber region of the Madeira River to find the most productive region and the most effective course for the railroad.\n\nAlthough the idea of river navigation was complicated, in 1869, the North American engineer George Earl Church obtained from the Bolivian government a concession to create and explore a navigation enterprise that linked the Mamoré and Madeira Rivers. Shortly afterwards, he realized the real difficulty of this undertaking. He changed the plans to construction of a railroad. Negotiations advanced and, by 1870, Church received permission from the Brazilian government to build a railroad along the rubber territories of the Madeira River.\n\nThe increase in uncontrolled extraction of rubber was increasing tensions and close to provoking an international conflict. The Brazilian workers advanced further and further into the forests in the territory of Bolivia in search of new rubber trees for extraction, creating conflicts and skirmishes on the frontier towards the end of the 19th century. The Bolivian Army, led by José Plácido de Castro, was sent into the area to protect Bolivian resources. The newly proclaimed Brazilian republic was drawing a considerable profit from the lucrative rubber trade, but the \"Acre question\" (as the border conflicts caused by rubber extraction became known) preoccupied it.\n\nIntervention by the diplomat Barão do Rio Branco and the ambassador Joaquim Francisco de Assis Brasil, in part financed by the \"rubber barons,\" led to negotiations with Bolivia and the signing of the Treaty of Petropolis, signed November 17, 1903 during the government of president Francisco de Paula Rodrigues Alves. While it halted conflict with Bolivia, the treaty guaranteed effective control by Brazil of the forests of Acre. \n\nBrazil was given possession of the region by Bolivia in exchange for territories in Mato Grosso, a payment of two million pounds sterling, and the compromise of constructing the railroad to connect to the Madeira River. This would enable Bolivia to transport its goods, primarily rubber, to the Brazilian ports of the Atlantic at the mouth of the Amazon River. Initially Belém in Pará was designated as the destination.\n\nBecause of the peaceful resolution of this issue, the capital of Acre was named Rio Branco after the Brazilian diplomat. Two of the municipalities in the state were named Assis Brasil and Plácido de Castro, after the ambassador and another key figure.\n\nThe Madeira-Mamoré Railroad became known as the \"Devil's Railroad\" on account of having caused the death of around six thousand workers (in legends said to be one dead worker per railroad tie attached to the rails) was constructed by the United States corporation of Percival Farquhar. The construction of the railroad began in 1907 during the government of Afonso Pena and was one of the most significant episodes in the history of the occupation of the Amazon, revealing the clear attempt to integrate it into the global marketplace via the commercialization of rubber.\n\nOn April 30, 1912, the final stretch of the Madeira-Mamoré Railroad was completed. The occasion was commemorated by the arrival of the first train to the city of Guajará-Mirim, founded on that same day.\n\nFirst, the price of latex fell precipitously in the world market, making the trade of rubber from the Amazon unviable. Also, the transport of products that could have been transported by the Madeira-Mamoré Railroad were taken by two other railroads, one in Chile and the other in Argentina, and the Panama Canal, which became active on August 15, 1914.\n\nAdded to this, the natural factor, the Amazon forest, with its high level of rainfall and rapid growth, destroyed entire stretches of the rails, leveled ground, and bridges, reclaiming a large part of the way that people had insisted on clearing to construct the railroad.\n\nThe railroad was partially taken out of service in the 1930s and completely in 1972 That year the Trans-Amazonian highway (BR-230) opened. Today, from a total of 364 km of length of railway, about seven remain in active use, used for tourist purposes. The people of Rondonia have fought for revitalization of the railroad, but as of December 1, 2006, the work remains unstarted.\n\nBelém, the capital of Pará state, as well as Manaus, the capital of Amazonas, were the most developed and prosperous cities in Brazil during the rubber boom. They were located in strategic sites, and prominent men in the rubber industry built their numerous and wealthy residences in each. These citizens created the demand that led to both cities being electrified and given running water and sewers.\n\nTheir apogee was reached between 1890 and 1920, when they acquired electric trams, avenues built on cleared gullies, as well as imposing and luxurious buildings, such as the polished Teatro Amazonas, the government palace, the municipal market, and the customs house, in the case of Manaus; and the fish market, the iron market, Teatro da Paz, corridors of mango trees, and various residential palaces in the case of Belém, constructed in large part by the intendant Antônio Lemos. These technologies and construction did not take place anywhere else in south and southeast Brazil of the time.\n\nThe European influence later became notable in Manaus and Belém, in the architecture and culture; and the two cities enjoyed their greatest economies and influence in the 19th century. The Amazon Basin was the source in the era for nearly 40% of all Brazil's exports. The new riches of Manaus made the city the world capital in the sale of diamonds. Thanks to rubber, the per capita income of Manaus was twice as much as the coffee-producing region (São Paulo, Rio de Janeiro and Espírito Santo).\n\nAs payment for the export of rubber, the workers were paid in pounds sterling (£), the currency of the United Kingdom, which circulated in Manaus and Belém during this period.\n\nThe Madeira–Mamoré Railroad, finished in 1912, arrived too late. The Amazon was already losing primacy in rubber production, as the English had planted rubber trees in its colonies in Malaysia, Sri Lanka, and tropical Africa. These rubber trees were planted from seeds that Henry Wickham had smuggled out of Brazil in 1876. These plantations were able to produce latex with greater efficiency and productivity. Consequently, with lower costs and a lower final price, the British Empire assumed control of the world rubber market.\n\nThe Amazon's rubber was undercut in the world market and demand for it fell. This rapidly resulted in the stagnation of the regional economy. There was a lack of entrepreneurial or governmental vision to find alternatives for development. The \"rubber barons\" and economic elite followed the money, leaving the region to seek their next fortunes elsewhere.\n\nTo try to stem the crisis, the central government of Brazil created the \"Superintendência de Defesa da Borracha\" (\"Superintendency of Defence of Rubber\"). It was inefficient and unable to effect real change, and, for this reason, it was eliminated soon after its creation.\n\nIn the 1930s, Henry Ford, the United States automobile pioneer, undertook the cultivation of rubber trees in the Amazon region. He established the city of Fordlândia in the west part of Pará state, specifically for this end, together with worker housing and planned community amenities. The plantation suffered from a leaf pest and the effort failed.\n\nChanges in the world economy during the Second World War created a new rubber boom, although it was of brief duration. As Japan dominated the western Pacific Ocean from the beginning of 1942 and invaded Malaysia, the rubber plantations there came under their control. As a result, the Allies lost access to 97% of Asian rubber production.\n\nProduction of rubber returned to the Amazon Basin, incorporating some new technologies. United States companies invested in the region and their managers played an active role. New buildings were constructed in Belém and Manaus. An example was the Grande Hotel, a luxurious hotel constructed in Belém in only three years, which today is the Hilton Hotel.\n\nEager to supply the Allied Forces with the rubber needed for war equipment, the Brazilian government made an agreement with the United States government (the Washington Accords). It set goals for the large-scale extraction of Amazon latex, an operation which became known as the \"Batalha da borracha\" (\"rubber battle\"), for the manpower and effort devoted to the project.\n\nAfter the rubber forests were abandoned, no more than 35,000 workers remained in the region. The great challenge of Brazil was to increase the annual production of latex from 18,000 to 45,000 tons, as set in the agreement. For this, 100,000 men were needed.\n\nDuring the same period, the northeast part of Brazil had suffered a devastating drought and an unprecedented crisis for its farmers. Brazil decided to recruit new rubber workers from that region. The Estado Novo in 1943 ordered the compulsory enlisting of workers in the \"Serviço Especial de Mobilização de Trabalhadores para a Amazônia\" (SEMTA; \"Special Service of Mobilization of Workers for the Amazon\"), based in the northeast, in Fortaleza. Brazilian president Getúlio Vargas reduced the problem of the economic blight and at the same time increased colonization of the Amazon Basin.\n\nIn addition to \"SEMTA\", the government created other organizations to support the rubber battle: the \"Superintendência para o Abastecimento do Vale da Amazônia\" (SAVA: the Superintendency for the Provisioning of the Amazon Valley), the \"Serviço Especial de Saúde Pública\" (SESP: the Special Service of Public Health), and the \"Serviço de Navegação da Amazônia e de Administração do Porto do Pará\" (SNAPP: Navigation Service of the Amazon and Administration of the Port of Pará). The \"Banco de Crédito da Borracha\" (Rubber Credit Bank) was also created. Later in 1950 it became the Banco de Crédito da Amazônia (Amazon Credit Bank).\nThe international organization Rubber Development Corporation (RDC), financed with capital from United States industries, covered the expenses of relocating the migrants (known at the time as \"brabos\"). The United States government paid the Brazilian government $100 for every worker delivered to the Amazon.\n\nThousands of workers from various regions of Brazil were transported under force to obligatory servitude. Many suffered death by tropical diseases of the region, such as malaria and yellow fever. The northeast region sent 54,000 workers to the Amazon alone, 30,000 of which were from Ceará. These new rubber workers were called \"soldados da borracha\" (\"rubber soldiers\") in a clear allusion to the role of the latex in supplying the U.S. factories with the rubber necessary to fight the war.\n\nIn 1849 Manaus had 5,000 inhabitants, expanding in the next half-century to 70,000. During World War II, the region again enjoyed prosperity. Money began to circulate in Manaus, Belém, and other cities and towns nearby, and the regional economy gained strength.\n\nFor many workers, it was a one-way journey. About 30,000 rubber workers died in the Amazon, after having exhausted their energies extracting the \"white gold.\" They died of malaria, yellow fever, and hepatitis, They also suffered attacks by animals such as panthers, serpents, and scorpions. The Brazilian government did not fulfill its promise to return the \"rubber soldiers\" to their homes at the end of the war as heroes and with housing comparable to that of the military veterans. It is estimated that only about 6,000 workers managed to return to their homes, at their own expense. In the 21st century, the decreasing number of survivors have challenged the government for recognition and compensation for themselves and their families for their contributions to the war effort.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "32966468", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32966468", "title": "Arge", "text": "Arge\n\nIn Greek mythology, the name Arge (Ancient Greek: Ἄργην)may refer to:\n\n"}
{"id": "19044830", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19044830", "title": "Astra 31.5°E", "text": "Astra 31.5°E\n\nAstra 31.5°E is the name for the group of Astra communications satellites co-located at the 31.5° east position in the Clarke Belt owned and operated by SES based in Betzdorf, Luxembourg. 31.5° east is SES' newest orbital location serving Europe (the others being at 19.2° east, 28.2° east, 23.5° east, and 5° east).\n\nThe first satellites to commercially exploit this position were the Astra 5A and Astra 1D craft, which provided for services downlinking in the 10.70 GHz-12.50 GHz range of the K band across Europe, Western Russia and the Middle East.\n\n\n\nAstra 31.5°E is SES' newest satellite position, intended to develop the markets for direct-to-home (DTH) standard definition and high definition TV and radio broadcasting, interactive TV, cable contribution, and DTT and other terrestrial feeds in Eastern Europe and the Middle East – the latter not served by Astra satellites before.\n\nCountries included within the intended market for this position, include Armenia, Azerbaijan, Belarus, Bosnia, Bulgaria, Czech Republic, Georgia, Hungary, Iran, Jordan, Macedonia, Moldova, Poland, Romania, Russia, Serbia, Slovakia, Tunisia, Turkey, and Ukraine.\n\nThe pan-European beam of Astra 5A provided capacity for cable distribution, DTT and other terrestrial feeds, while 5A’s CEE beam provided a high-power footprint for the DTH market.\n\nFollowing the failure of Astra 5A, its replacement first by Astra 2C and then by Astra 1G has provided similar coverage and, as of July 2010, there are eight transponders leased on this satellite, including one to provide IP backbone services to small and medium-sized ISPs in the Middle East and Caucasus region where terrestrial telecommunications infrastructures are underdeveloped.\n\nIn December 2010, SES announced two agreements for the lease of capacity on Astra 1G. The first was with the Ukrainian state-owned company, Ukrkosmos, to provide capacity at 31.5°E for broadcasting direct to Ukrainian homes and to cable head ends and terrestrial networks. The Ukrkosmos platform includes the channels UTR, Kultura, KDRTRK, Sport 1, Sport 2, Malyatko TV and Menu TV. The second agreement was with Central European Media Enterprises (CME) which contracted a transponder on Astra 1G for distribution of services to cable head ends in Romania and Bulgaria, starting in January 2011. CME provides TV channels including Pro TV, Pro TV International, Acasa, Pro Cinema, Sport.ro and MTV Romania to Romania and bTV, bTV Cinema, bTV Comedy, PRO.BG and RING.BG in Bulgaria, and is the \"anchor customer\" for Astra's 31.5°E slot.\n\nAs of the end of 2016, the Astra satellites at 31.5° east broadcast 247 channels (199 in SD, 47 in HD, 1 in UHD) to 14 million households \n\nThe first hint of SES' plan to develop the 31.5° east position as a new 'hot spot' for satellite TV came with the positioning of the ancient Australian satellite, Optus A3 (launched 1987) at 31.5° East (albeit in a 9° inclined orbit), carrying SES test transmissions in July 2006, to occupy the slot until Astra craft could be moved there.\n\nIn November 2007, Astra 1D (originally launched to the Astra 19.2°E position but in July 2007 moved to help establish the Astra 23.5°E position) was approaching the end of its design life and was replaced at 23.5° east by Astra 1E. Astra 1D was moved to 31.5° east, where it operated in inclined orbit, to replace Optus A3.\n\nIn April 2008, Optus A3 was moved from the 31.5° east position and operation of the Sirius 2 satellite (owned by NSAB - later, SES Sirius - and launched in 1997 to the 5°E position) was transferred to SES and the craft was renamed Astra 5A and moved to 31.5° east to officially open up the new Astra 31.5°E position, although control of the craft in orbit was kept with the Swedish Space Corporation.\n\nOn January 16, 2009 Astra 5A \"experienced a technical anomaly leading to the end of the spacecraft’s mission\". All traffic ceased, with much of it (especially channels for German cable service, Kabel Deutschland) transferred to Astra 23.5°E. Astra 1D is not suitable for the transmission of these services because it is in an inclined orbit. In March 2009, SES announced that in April, the Astra 2C satellite was to be moved from the 28.2° east position to Astra 31.5°E to temporarily take over Astra 5A's mission until Astra 3B is launched to Astra 23.5°E, when another craft currently there can be released to Astra 31.5°E. The satellite move was started in May and completed on May 11 with the first transponders coming into use at the new position in the subsequent two weeks.\n\nIn June 2010, Astra 3B (launched May 2010) came into operation at Astra 23.5°E and Astra 1G was moved from that position to Astra 31.5°E, where it could release Astra 1D for use elsewhere and take over all broadcasting activity from Astra 2C. Astra 2C remained at the Astra 31.5°E position until September 2010, when it was moved to Astra 19.2°E while Astra 1N, which was intended for positioning at 19.2°E, was used at Astra 28.2°E.\n\nLate in 2009 SES announced that a new satellite had been ordered for this position. Astra 5B was built by Astrium on the Eurostar E3000 platform for DTH, DTT and cable use in Eastern Europe, and was due to be launched in the second quarter of 2013. In October 2013, it was announced that Astra 5B would be launched on December 6, 2013. but in November 2013 SES announced postponement until January 2014 because of delays with the Amazonas 4A craft that was to accompany Astra 5B in the launch rocket. In February 2014 it was announced that the satellite would be launched on March 21, 2014 and the Astra 2B satellite was moved to 31.5°E to provide backup capacity pending the arrival of the new satellite (where it remained until December 2016).\n\nAstra 5B was successfully launched to the Astra 31.5°E position on March 22, 2014 and entered commercial service on June 2, 2014.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "31039221", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31039221", "title": "Boiling water reactor safety systems", "text": "Boiling water reactor safety systems\n\nBoiling water reactor safety systems are nuclear safety systems constructed within boiling water reactors in order to prevent or mitigate environmental and health hazards in the event of accident or natural disaster.\n\nLike the pressurized water reactor, the BWR reactor core continues to produce heat from radioactive decay after the fission reactions have stopped, making a core damage incident possible in the event that all safety systems have failed and the core does not receive coolant. Also like the pressurized water reactor, a boiling water reactor has a negative void coefficient, that is, the neutron (and the thermal) output of the reactor decreases as the proportion of steam to liquid water increases inside the reactor.\n\nHowever, unlike a pressurized water reactor which contains no steam in the reactor core, a sudden increase in BWR steam pressure (caused, for example, by the actuation of the main steam isolation valve (MSIV) from the reactor) will result in a sudden decrease in the proportion of steam to liquid water inside the reactor. The increased ratio of water to steam will lead to increased neutron moderation, which in turn will cause an increase in the power output of the reactor. This type of event is referred to as a \"pressure transient\".\n\nThe BWR is specifically designed to respond to pressure transients, having a \"pressure suppression\" type of design which vents overpressure using safety-relief valves to below the surface of a pool of liquid water within the containment, known as the \"wetwell\", \"torus\" or \"suppression pool\". All BWRs utilize a number of safety/relief valves for overpressure, up to 7 of these are a part of the Automatic Depressurization System (ADS) and 18 safety overpressure relief valves on ABWR models, only a few of which have to function to stop the pressure rise of a transient. In addition, the reactor will already have rapidly shut down before the transient affects the RPV (as described in the Reactor Protection System section below.)\n\nBecause of this effect in BWRs, operating components and safety systems are designed with the intention that no credible scenario can cause a pressure and power increase that exceeds the systems' capability to quickly shut down the reactor before damage to the fuel or to components containing the reactor coolant can occur. In the limiting case of an ATWS (Anticipated Transient Without Scram) derangement, high neutron power levels (~ 200%) can occur for less than a second, after which actuation of SRVs will cause the pressure to rapidly drop off. Neutronic power will fall to far below nominal power (the range of 30% with the cessation of circulation, and thus, void clearance) even before ARI or SLCS actuation occurs. Thermal power will be barely affected.\n\nIn the event of a contingency that disables all of the safety systems, each reactor is surrounded by a containment building consisting of of steel-reinforced, pre-stressed concrete designed to seal off the reactor from the environment.\n\nHowever, the containment building does not protect the fuel during the whole fuel cycle. Most importantly, the spent fuel resides long periods of time outside the primary containment. A typical spent fuel storage pool can hold roughly five times the fuel in the core. Since reloads typically discharge one third of a core, much of the spent fuel stored in the pool will have had considerable decay time. But if the pool were to be drained of water, the discharged fuel from the previous two refuelings would still be \"fresh\" enough to melt under decay heat. However, the zircaloy cladding of this fuel could be ignited during the heatup. The resulting fire would probably spread to most or all of the fuel in the pool. The heat of combustion, in combination with decay heat, would probably drive \"borderline aged\" fuel into a molten condition. Moreover, if the fire becomes oxygen-starved (quite probable for a fire located in the bottom of a pit such as this), the hot zirconium would rob oxygen from the uranium dioxide fuel, forming a liquid mixture of metallic uranium, zirconium, oxidized zirconium, and dissolved uranium dioxide. This would cause a release of fission products from the fuel matrix quite comparable to that of molten fuel. In addition, although confined, BWR spent fuel pools are almost always located outside of the primary containment. Generation of hydrogen during the process would probably result in an explosion, damaging the secondary containment building. Thus, release to the atmosphere is more likely than for comparable accidents involving the reactor core.\n\nThe Reactor Protection System (RPS) is a system, computerized in later BWR models, that is designed to automatically, rapidly, and completely shut down and make safe the Nuclear Steam Supply System (NSSS – the reactor pressure vessel, pumps, and water/steam piping within the containment) if some event occurs that could result in the reactor entering an unsafe operating condition. In addition, the RPS can automatically spin up the Emergency Core Cooling System (ECCS) upon detection of several signals. It does not require human intervention to operate. However, the reactor operators can override parts of the RPS if necessary. If an operator recognizes a deteriorating condition, and knows an automatic safety system will activate, they are trained to pre-emptively activate the safety system.\n\nIf the reactor is at power or ascending to power (i.e. if the reactor is supercritical; the control rods are withdrawn to the point where the reactor generates more neutrons than it absorbs), there are safety-related contingencies that may arise that necessitate a rapid shutdown of the reactor, or, in Western nuclear parlance, a \"SCRAM\". The SCRAM is a manually triggered or automatically triggered rapid insertion of all control rods into the reactor, which will take the reactor to decay heat power levels within tens of seconds. Since ≈ 0.6% of neutrons are emitted from fission products (\"delayed\" neutrons), which are born seconds or minutes after fission, all fission can not be terminated instantaneously, but the fuel soon returns to decay heat power levels. Manual SCRAMs may be initiated by the reactor operators, while automatic SCRAMs are initiated upon:\n\n\nWhile the reactor protection system is designed to shut down the reactor, ECCS is designed to maintain adequate core cooling. The ECCS is a set of interrelated safety systems that are designed to protect the fuel within the reactor pressure vessel, which is referred to as the \"reactor core\", from overheating. The five criteria for ECCS are to prevent peak fuel cladding temperature from exceeding 2200 °F, prevent more than 17% oxidation of the fuel cladding, prevent more than 1% of the maximum theoretical hydrogen generation due the zircalloy metal-water reaction, maintain a coolable geometry, and allow for long-term cooling.\n\nECCS systems accomplish this by maintaining reactor pressure vessel (RPV) cooling water level, or if that is impossible, by directly flooding the core with coolant.\n\nThese systems are of three major types:\n\nThe high-pressure coolant injection system is the first line of defense in the emergency core cooling system. HPCI is designed to inject substantial quantities of water into the reactor while it is at high pressure so as to prevent the activation of the automatic depressurization, core spray, and low-pressure coolant injection systems. HPCI is powered by steam from the reactor, and takes approximately 10 seconds to spin up from an initiating signal, and can deliver approximately 19,000 L/min (5,000 US gal/min) to the core at any core pressure above 6.8 atm (690 kPa, 100 psi). This is usually enough to keep water levels sufficient to avoid automatic depressurization except in a major contingency, such as a large break in the makeup water line. HPCI is also able to be run in \"pressure control mode\", where the HPCI turbine is run without pumping water to the reactor vessel. This allows HPCI to remove steam from the reactor and slowly depressurize it without the need for operating the safety or relief valves. This minimizes the number of times the relief valves need to operate, and reduces the potential for one sticking open and causing a small LOCA.\n\nVersioning note: Some BWR/5s and the BWR/6 replace the steam-turbine driven HPCI pump with the AC-powered high-pressure core spray (HPCS); ABWR replaces HPCI with high-pressure core flooder (HPCF), a mode of the RCIC system, as described below. (E)SBWR does not have an equivalent system as it primarily uses passive safety cooling systems, though ESBWR does offer an alternative active high-pressure injection method using an operating mode of the Control Rod Drive System (CRDS) to supplement the passive system.\n\nSome reactors, including some BWR/2 and BWR/3 plants, and the (E)SBWR series of reactors, have a passive system called the Isolation Condenser. This is a heat exchanger located above containment in a pool of water open to atmosphere. \nWhen activated, decay heat boils steam, which is drawn into the heat exchanger and condensed; then it falls by weight of gravity back into the reactor. This process keeps the cooling water in the reactor, making it unnecessary to use powered feedwater pumps. The water in the open pool slowly boils off, venting clean steam to the atmosphere. This makes it unnecessary to run mechanical systems to remove heat. Periodically, the pool must be refilled, a simple task for a fire truck. The (E)SBWR reactors provide three days' supply of water in the pool. Some older reactors also have IC systems, including Fukushima Dai-ichi reactor 1, however their water pools may not be as large.\n\nUnder normal conditions, the IC system is not activated, but the top of the IC condenser is connected to the reactor's steam lines through an open valve. The IC automatically starts on low water level or high steam pressure indications. Once it starts, steam enters the IC condenser and condenses until it is filled with water. When the IC system is activated, a valve at the bottom of the IC condenser is opened which connects to a lower area of the reactor. The water falls to the reactor by gravity, allowing the condenser to fill with steam, which then condenses. This cycle runs continuously until the bottom valve is closed.\n\nThe reactor core isolation cooling system is not an emergency core cooling system proper, but it is included because it fulfills an important-to-safety function which can help to cool the reactor in the event of a loss of normal heat sinking capability; or when all electrical power is lost. It has additional functionality in advanced versions of the BWR.\n\nRCIC is an auxiliary feedwater pump meant for emergency use. It is able to inject cooling water into the reactor at high pressures. It injects approximately 2,000 L/min (600 gpm) into the reactor core. It takes less time to start than the HPCI system, approximately 30 seconds from an initiating signal. It has ample capacity to replace the cooling water boiled off by residual decay heat, and can even keep up with small leaks.\n\nThe RCIC system operates on high-pressure steam from the reactor itself, and thus is operable with no electric power other than battery power to operate the control valves. Those turn the RCIC on and off as necessary to maintain correct water levels in the reactor. (If run continuously, the RCIC would overfill the reactor and send water down its own steam supply line.) During a station blackout (where all off-site power is lost and the diesel generators fail) the RCIC system may be \"black started\" with no AC and manually activated. The RCIC system condenses its steam into the reactor suppression pool. The RCIC can make up this water loss, from either of two sources: a makeup water tank located outside containment, or the wetwell itself. RCIC is not designed to maintain reactor water level during a LOCA or other leak. Similar to HPCI, the RCIC turbine can be run in recirculation mode to remove steam from the reactor and help depressurize the reactor.\nVersioning note: RCIC and HPCF are integrated in the ABWRs, with HPCF representing the high-capacity mode of RCIC. Older BWRs such as Fukushima Unit 1 and Dresden as well as the new (E)SBWR do not have a RCIC system, and instead have an Isolation Condenser system.\n\nThe Automatic depressurization system is not a part of the cooling system proper, but is an essential adjunct to the ECCS. It is designed to activate in the event that there is either a loss of high-pressure cooling to the vessel or if the high-pressure cooling systems cannot maintain the RPV water level. ADS can be manually or automatically initiated. When ADS receives an auto-start signal when water reaches the Low-Low-Low Water Level Alarm setpoint. ADS then confirms with the Low Alarm Water Level, verifies at least 1 low-pressure cooling pump is operating, and starts a 105-second timer. When the timer expires, or when the manual ADS initiate buttons are pressed, the system rapidly releases pressure from the RPV in the form of steam through pipes that are piped to below the water level in the suppression pool (the torus/wetwell), which is designed to condense the steam released by ADS or other safety valve activation into water), bringing the reactor vessel below 32 atm (3200 kPa, 465 psi), allowing the low-pressure cooling systems (LPCS/LPCI/LPCF/GDCS) to restore reactor water level. During an ADS blowdown, the steam being removed from the reactor is sufficient to ensure adequate core cooling even if the core is uncovered. The water in the reactor will rapidly flash to steam as reactor pressure drops, carrying away the latent heat of vaporization and providing cooling for the entire reactor. Low pressure ECCS systems will re-flood the core prior to the end of the emergency blowdown, ensuring that the core retains adequate cooling during the entire event.\n\nThe low-pressure core spray system is designed to suppress steam generated by a major contingency. As such, it prevents reactor vessel pressure from going above the point where LPCI and LPCS would be ineffective, which is above 32 atm (3200 kPa, 465 psi). It activates below that level, and delivers approximately 48,000 L/min (12,500 US gal/min) of water in a deluge from the top of the core. The core spray system collapses steam voids above the core, aids in reducing reactor pressure when the fuel is uncovered, and, in the event the reactor has a break so large that water level cannot be maintained, core spray is capable of preventing fuel damage by ensuring the fuel is adequately sprayed to remove decay heat. In earlier versions of the BWR (BWR 1 or 2 plants), the LPCS system was the only ECCS, and the core could be adequately cooled by core spray even if it was completely uncovered. Starting with Dresden units 2 and 3, the core spray system was augmented by the HPCI/LPCI systems to provide for both spray cooling and core flooding as methods for ensuring adequate core cooling.\n\nVersioning note: In ABWRs and (E)SBWRs, there are additional water spray systems to cool the drywell and the suppression pool.\n\nThe low-pressure coolant injection function is the emergency mode of the Residual Heat Removal (RHR) system. The LPCI function can be operated at reactor vessel pressures below 465 psi. LPCI consists of several pumps which are capable of injecting 150,000 L/min (40,000 US gal/min) of water into the core. Combined with the Core Spray system to keep steam pressure low, the LPCI is designed to suppress contingencies by rapidly and completely flooding the core with coolant. The LPCI system was first introduced with Dresden units 2 and 3. The LPCI system can also use the RHR heat exchangers to remove decay heat from the reactor and cool the containment to cold conditions. Early versions of the LPCI system injected through the recirculation loops or into the downcomer. Later versions of the BWR moved the injection point directly inside the core shroud to minimize time to reflood the core, substantially reducing the peak temperatures of the core during a LOCA.\n\nVersioning note: ABWRs replace LPCI with low-pressure core flooder (LPCF), which operates using similar principles. (E)SBWRs replace LPCI with the DPVS/PCCS/GDCS, as described below.\n\nThe (E)SBWR has an additional ECCS capacity that is completely passive, quite unique, and significantly improves defense in depth. This system is activated when the water level within the RPV reaches Level 1. At this point, a countdown timer is started.\n\nThere are several large depressurization valves located near the top of the reactor pressure vessel. These constitute the DPVS. This is a capability supplemental to the ADS, which is also included on the (E)SBWR. The DPVS consists of eight of these valves, four on main steamlines that vent to the drywell when actuated and four venting directly into the wetwell.\n\nIf Level 1 is not resubmerged within 50 seconds after the countdown started, DPVS fires and rapidly vents steam contained within the reactor pressure vessel into the drywell. This will cause the water within the RPV to gain in volume (due to the drop in pressure) which will increase the water available to cool the core. In addition, depressurization reduces the saturation temperature enhancing the heat removal via phase transition. (In fact, both the ESBWR and the ABWR are designed so that even in the maximum feasible contingency, the core never loses its layer of water coolant.)\n\nIf Level 1 is still not resubmerged within 100 seconds of DPVS actuation, then the GDCS valves fire. The GDCS is a series of very large water tanks located above and to the side of the Reactor Pressure Vessel within the drywell. When these valves fire, the GDCS is directly connected to the RPV. After ~50 more seconds of depressurization, the pressure within the GDCS will equalize with that of the RPV and drywell, and the water of the GDCS will begin flowing into the RPV.\n\nThe water within the RPV will boil into steam from the decay heat, and natural convection will cause it to travel upwards into the drywell, into piping assemblies in the ceiling that will take the steam to four large heat exchangers – the Passive Containment Cooling System (PCCS) – located above the drywell – in deep pools of water. The steam will be cooled, and will condense back into liquid water. The liquid water will drain from the heat exchanger back into the GDCS pool, where it can flow back into the RPV to make up for additional water boiled by decay heat. In addition, if the GDCS lines break, the shape of the RPV and the drywell will ensure that a \"lake\" of liquid water forms that submerges the bottom of the RPV (and the core within).\n\nThere is sufficient water to cool the heat exchangers of the PCCS for 72 hours. At this point, all that needs to happen is for the pools that cool the PCCS heat exchangers to be refilled, which is a comparatively trivial operation, doable with a portable fire pump and hoses.\n\nGE has a computerized animation of how the ESBWR functions during a pipe break incident on their website.\n\nThe SLCS is a backup to the reactor protection system. In the event that RPS is unable to scram the reactor for any reason, the SLCS will inject a liquid boron solution into the reactor vessel to bring it to a guaranteed shutdown state prior to exceeding any containment or reactor vessel limits. The standby liquid control system is designed to deliver the equivalent of 86 gpm of 13% by weight sodium pentaborate solution into a 251-inch BWR reactor vessel. SLCS, in combination with the alternate rod insertion system, the automatic recirculation pump trip and manual operator actions to reduce water level in the core will ensure that the reactor vessel does not exceed its ASME code limits, the fuel does not suffer core damaging instabilities, and the containment does not fail due to overpressure during the most extreme full power scram failure.\n\nThe SLCS consists of a tank containing borated water as a neutron absorber, protected by explosively-opened valves and redundant pumps, allowing the injection of the borated water into the reactor against any pressure within; the borated water will shut down a reactor and maintain it shut down. The SLCS can also be injected during a LOCA or a fuel cladding failure to adjust the ph of the reactor coolant that has spilled, preventing the release of some radioactive materials.\n\nVersioning note: The SLCS is a system that is never meant to be activated unless all other measures have failed. In the BWR/1 – BWR/6, its activation could cause sufficient damage to the plant that it could make the older BWRs inoperable without a complete overhaul. With the arrival of the ABWR and (E)SBWR, operators do not have to be as reluctant about activating the SLCS, as these reactors have a reactor water cleanup system (RWCS) which is designed to remove boron – once the reactor has stabilized, the borated water within the RPV can be filtered through this system to promptly remove the soluble neutron absorbers that it contains and thus avoid damage to the internals of the plant.\n\nThe ultimate safety system inside and outside of every BWR are the numerous levels of physical shielding that both protect the reactor from the outside world and protect the outside world from the reactor.\n\nThere are five levels of shielding:\n\nIf every possible measure standing between safe operation and core damage fails, the containment can be sealed indefinitely, and it will prevent any substantial release of radiation to the environment from occurring in nearly any circumstance.\n\nAs illustrated by the descriptions of the systems above, BWRs are quite divergent in design from PWRs. Unlike the PWR, which has generally followed a very predictable external containment design (the stereotypical dome atop a cylinder), BWR containments are varied in external form but their internal distinctiveness is extremely striking in comparison to the PWR. There are five major varieties of BWR containments:\n\n\nMany valves passing in and out of the containment are required to be open to operate the facility. During an accident where radioactive material may be released, these valves must shut to prevent the release of radioactive material or the loss of reactor coolant. The containment isolation system is responsible for automatically closing these valves to prevent the release of radioactive material and is an important part of a plant's safety analysis. The isolation system is separated into groups for major system functions. Each group contains its own criteria to trigger an isolation. The isolation system is similar to reactor protection system in that it consists of multiple channels, it is classified as safety-related, and that it requires confirmatory signals from multiple channels to issue an isolation to a system. An example of parameters which are monitored by the isolation system include containment pressure, acoustic or thermal leak detection, differential flow, high steam or coolant flow, low reactor water level, or high radiation readings in the containment building or ventilation system. These isolation signals will lock out all of the valves in the group after closing them and must have all signals cleared before the lockout can be reset.\n\nIsolation valves consist of 2 safety-related valves in series. One is an inboard valve, the other is an outboard valve. The inboard is located inside the containment, and the outboard is located just outside the containment. This provides redundancy as well as making the system immune to the single failure of any inboard or outboard valve operator or isolation signal. When an isolation signal is given to a group, both the inboard and outboard valves stroke closed. Tests of isolation logic must be performed regularly and is a part of each plant's technical specifications. The timing of these valves to stroke closed is a component of each plant's safety analysis and failure to close in the analyzed time is a reportable event.\n\nExamples of isolation groups include the main steamlines, the reactor water cleanup system, the reactor core isolation cooling (RCIC) system, shutdown cooling, and the residual heat removal system. For pipes which inject water into the containment, two safety-related check valves are generally used in lieu of motor operated valves. These valves must be tested regularly as well to ensure they do indeed seal and prevent leakage even against high reactor pressures.\n\nDuring normal plant operations and in normal operating temperatures, the hydrogen generation is not significant. When the nuclear fuel overheats, zirconium in Zircaloy cladding used in fuel rods oxidizes in reaction with steam:\nWhen mixed with air, hydrogen is flammable, and hydrogen detonation or deflagration may damage the reactor containment. In reactor designs with small containment volumes, such as in Mark I or II containments, the preferred method for managing hydrogen is pre-inerting with inert gas—generally nitrogen—to reduce the oxygen concentration in air below that needed for hydrogen combustion, and the use of thermal recombiners. Pre-inerting is considered impractical with larger containment volumes where thermal recombiners and deliberate ignition are used. Mark III containments have hydrogen igniters and hydrogen mixers which are designed to prevent the buildup of hydrogen through either pre-ignition prior to exceeding the lower explosive limit of 4%, or through recombination with Oxygen to make water.\n\nThe Design Basis Accident (DBA) for a nuclear power plant is the most severe possible single accident that the designers of the plant and the regulatory authorities could reasonably expect. It is, also, by definition, the accident the safety systems of the reactor are designed to respond to successfully, even if it occurs when the reactor is in its most vulnerable state. The DBA for the BWR consists of the total rupture of a large coolant pipe in the location that is considered to place the reactor in the most danger of harm—specifically, for older BWRs (BWR/1-BWR/6), the DBA consists of a \"guillotine break\" in the coolant loop of one of the recirculation jet pumps, which is substantially below the core waterline (LBLOCA, large break loss of coolant accident) combined with loss of feedwater to make up for the water boiled in the reactor (LOFW, loss of proper feedwater), combined with a simultaneous collapse of the regional power grid, resulting in a loss of power to certain reactor emergency systems (LOOP, loss of offsite power). The BWR is designed to shrug this accident off without core damage.\n\nThe description of this accident is applicable for the BWR/4.\n\nThe immediate result of such a break (call it time T+0) would be a pressurized stream of water well above the boiling point shooting out of the broken pipe into the drywell, which is at atmospheric pressure. As this water stream flashes into steam, due to the decrease in pressure and that it is above the water boiling point at normal atmospheric pressure, the pressure sensors within the drywell will report a pressure increase anomaly within it to the reactor protection system at latest T+0.3. The RPS will interpret this pressure increase signal, correctly, as the sign of a break in a pipe within the drywell. As a result, the RPS immediately initiates a full SCRAM, closes the main steam isolation valve (isolating the containment building), trips the turbines, attempts to begin the spinup of RCIC and HPCI, using residual steam, and starts the diesel pumps for LPCI and CS.\n\nNow let us assume that the power outage hits at \"T\"+0.5. The RPS is on a float uninterruptable power supply, so it continues to function; its sensors, however, are not, and thus the RPS assumes that they are all detecting emergency conditions. Within less than a second from power outage, auxiliary batteries and compressed air supplies are starting the Emergency Diesel Generators. Power will be restored by \"T\"+25 seconds.\n\nLet us return to the reactor core. Due to the closure of the MSIV (complete by \"T\"+2), a wave of backpressure will hit the rapidly depressurizing RPV but this is immaterial, as the depressurization due to the recirculation line break is so rapid and complete that no steam voids will likely collapse to liquid water. HPCI and RCIC will fail due to loss of steam pressure in the general depressurization, but this is again immaterial, as the 2,000 L/min (600 US gal/min) flow rate of RCIC available after \"T\"+5 is insufficient to maintain the water level; nor would the 19,000 L/min (5,000 US gal/min) flow of HPCI, available at \"T\"+10, be enough to maintain the water level, if it could work without steam. At \"T\"+10, the temperature of the reactor core, at approximately at and before this point, begins to rise as enough coolant has been lost from the core that voids begin to form in the coolant between the fuel rods and they begin to heat rapidly. By \"T\"+12 seconds from the accident start, fuel rod uncovery begins. At approximately \"T\"+18 areas in the rods have reached . Some relief comes at \"T\"+20 or so, as the negative temperature coefficient and the negative void coefficient slows the rate of temperature increase. \"T\"+25 sees power restored; however, LPCI and CS will not be online until \"T\"+40.\n\nAt \"T\"+40, core temperature is at and rising steadily; CS and LPCI kick in and begins deluging the steam above the core, and then the core itself. First, a large amount of steam still trapped above and within the core has to be knocked down first, or the water will be flashed to steam prior to it hitting the rods. This happens after a few seconds, as the approximately 200,000 L/min (3,300 L/s, 52,500 US gal/min, 875 US gal/s) of water these systems release begin to cool first the top of the core, with LPCI deluging the fuel rods, and CS suppressing the generated steam until at approximately \"T\"+100 seconds, all of the fuel is now subject to deluge and the last remaining hot-spots at the bottom of the core are now being cooled. The peak temperature that was attained was (well below the maximum of established by the NRC) at the bottom of the core, which was the last hot spot to be affected by the water deluge.\n\nThe core is cooled rapidly and completely, and following cooling to a reasonable temperature, below that consistent with the generation of steam, CS is shut down and LPCI is decreased in volume to a level consistent with maintenance of a steady-state temperature among the fuel rods, which will drop over a period of days due to the decrease in fission-product decay heat within the core.\n\nAfter a few days of LPCI, decay heat will have sufficiently abated to the point that defueling of the reactor is able to commence with a degree of caution. Following defueling, LPCI can be shut down. A long period of physical repairs will be necessary to repair the broken recirculation loop; overhaul the ECCS; diesel pumps; and diesel generators; drain the drywell; fully inspect all reactor systems, bring non-conformal systems up to spec, replace old and worn parts, etc. At the same time, different personnel from the licensee working hand in hand with the NRC will evaluate what the immediate cause of the break was; search for what event led to the immediate cause of the break (the root causes of the accident); and then to analyze the root causes and take corrective actions based on the root causes and immediate causes discovered. This is followed by a period to generally reflect and post-mortem the accident, discuss what procedures worked, what procedures didn't, and if it all happened again, what could have been done better, and what could be done to ensure it doesn't happen again; and to record lessons learned to propagate them to other BWR licensees. When this is accomplished, the reactor can be refueled, resume operations, and begin producing power once more.\n\nThe ABWR and ESBWR, the most recent models of the BWR, are not vulnerable to anything like this incident in the first place, as they have no liquid penetrations (pipes) lower than several feet above the waterline of the core, and thus, the reactor pressure vessel holds in water much like a deep swimming pool in the event of a feedwater line break or a steam line break. The BWR 5s and 6s have additional tolerance, deeper water levels, and much faster emergency system reaction times. Fuel rod uncovery will briefly take place, but maximum temperature will only reach , far below the NRC safety limit.\n\nAccording to a report by the U.S. Nuclear Regulatory Commission into the Fukushima Daiichi nuclear disaster, the March 2011 Tōhoku earthquake and tsunami that caused that disaster was an event \"far more severe than the design basis for the Fukushima Daiichi Nuclear Power Plant\". The reactors at this plant were BWR 3 and BWR 4 models. Their primary containment vessels had to be flooded with seawater containing boric acid, which will preclude any resumption of operation and was not anticipated in the DBA scenario. In addition, nothing similar to the chemical explosions that occurred at the Fukushima Daiichi plant was anticipated by the DBA.\n\nPrior to the Fukushima Daiichi disaster, no incident approaching the DBA or even a LBLOCA in severity had occurred with a BWR . There had been minor incidents involving the ECCS, but in those circumstances it had performed at or beyond expectations. The most severe incident that had previously occurred with a BWR was in 1975 due to a fire caused by extremely flammable urethane foam installed in the place of fireproofing materials at the Browns Ferry Nuclear Power Plant; for a short time, the control room's monitoring equipment was cut off from the reactor, but the reactor shut down successfully, and, as of 2009, is still producing power for the Tennessee Valley Authority, having sustained no damage to systems within the containment. The fire had nothing to do with the design of the BWR – it could have occurred in any power plant, and the lessons learned from that incident resulted in the creation of a separate backup control station, compartmentalization of the power plant into fire zones and clearly documented sets of equipment which would be available to shut down the reactor plant and maintain it in a safe condition in the event of a worst-case fire in any one fire zone. These changes were retrofitted into every existing US and most Western nuclear power plants and built into new plants from that point forth.\n\nGeneral Electric defended the design of the reactor, stating that the station blackout caused by the 2011 Tōhoku earthquake and tsunami was a \"beyond-design-basis\" event which led to Fukushima I nuclear accidents. According to the Nuclear Energy Institute, \"Coincident long-term loss of both on-site and off-site power for an extended period of time is a beyond-design-basis event for the primary containment on any operating nuclear power plant\".\n\nThe reactors shut down as designed after the earthquake. However, the tsunami disabled four of the six sets of switchgear and all but three of the diesel backup generators which operated the emergency cooling systems and pumps. Pumps were designed to circulate hot fluid from the reactor to be cooled in the wetwell, but only units 5 and 6 had any power. Units 1, 2 and 3 reactor cores overheated and melted. Radioactivity was released into the air as fuel rods were damaged due to overheating by exposure to air as water levels fell below safe levels. As an emergency measure, operators resorted to using firetrucks and salvaged car batteries to inject seawater into the drywell to cool the reactors, but only achieved intermittent success and three cores overheated. Reactors 1–3, and by some reports 4 all suffered violent hydrogen explosions March 2011 which damaged or destroyed their top levels or lower suppression level (unit 2).\n\nAs emergency measures, helicopters attempted to drop water from the ocean onto the open rooftops. Later water was sprayed from fire engines onto the roof of reactor 3. A concrete pump was used to pump water into the spent fuel pond in unit 4.\n\nAccording to NISA, the accident released up to 10 petabecquerels of radioactive\niodine-131 per hour in the initial days, and up to 630 PBq total, about one eighth the 5200 PBq released at Chernobyl.\nHowever, in view of the later scandals, NISA's data should perhaps be treated with caution.\n"}
{"id": "183522", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=183522", "title": "Brahmaputra River", "text": "Brahmaputra River\n\nThe Brahmaputra () is one of the major rivers of Asia, a trans-boundary river which flows through China, India and Bangladesh. As such, it is known by various names in the region: Assamese: লুইত , ব্ৰহ্মপুত্ৰ নৈ , ব্ৰহ্মপুত্ৰ নদ (the tatsama 'নদ' \"nod\", masculine form of the tatsama 'নদী' \"nodi\" \"river\") ; , IAST: ; Yarlung Tsangpo; . It is also called Tsangpo-Brahmaputra (when referring to the whole river including the stretch within Tibet). The Manas River, which runs through Bhutan, joins it at Jogighopa, in India. It is the ninth largest river in the world by discharge, and the 15th longest.\n\nWith its origin in the Manasarovar Lake region, located on the northern side of the Himalayas in Burang County of Tibet as the Yarlung Tsangpo River, it flows across southern Tibet to break through the Himalayas in great gorges (including the Yarlung Tsangpo Grand Canyon) and into Arunachal Pradesh (India). It flows southwest through the Assam Valley as Brahmaputra and south through Bangladesh as the Jamuna (not to be mistaken with Yamuna of India). In the vast Ganges Delta, it merges with the Padma, the popular name of the river Ganges in Bangladesh, and finally the Meghna and from here it is known as Meghna before emptying into the Bay of Bengal.\n\nAbout long, the Brahmaputra is an important river for irrigation and transportation. The average depth of the river is and maximum depth is . The river is prone to catastrophic flooding in the spring when Himalayas snow melts. The average discharge of the river is about , and floods can reach over . It is a classic example of a braided river and is highly susceptible to channel migration and avulsion. It is also one of the few rivers in the world that exhibit a tidal bore. It is navigable for most of its length.\n\nThe river drains the Himalaya east of the Indo-Nepal border, south-central portion of the Tibetan plateau above the Ganga basin, south-eastern portion of Tibet, the Patkai-Bum hills, the northern slopes of the Meghalaya hills, the Assam plains, and the northern portion of Bangladesh. The basin, especially south of Tibet, is characterized by high levels of rainfall. Kangchenjunga (8,586 m) is the only peak above 8,000 m, hence is the highest point within the Brahmaputra basin.\n\nThe Brahmaputra's upper course was long unknown, and its identity with the Yarlung Tsangpo was only established by exploration in 1884–86. This river is often called Tsangpo-Brahmaputra river.\n\nThe lower reaches are sacred to Hindus. While most rivers on the Indian subcontinent have female names, this river has a rare male name, as it means \"son of Brahma\" in Sanskrit (\"putra\" means \"son\").\n\nThe Brahmaputra River, also called Yarlung Tsangpo in Tibetan language, originates on the Angsi Glacier located on the northern side of the Himalayas in Burang County of Tibet. The source of the river was earlier thought to be on the Chemayungdung glacier, which covers the slopes of the Himalayas about southeast of Lake Manasarovar in southwestern Tibet. The river is long, and its drainage area is according to the new findings, while previous documents showed its length varied from 2,900 to 3,350 km and its drainage area between 520,000 and 1.73 million km. This finding has been given by Liu Shaochuang, a researcher with the Institute of Remote Sensing Applications under the analysis using expeditions and satellite imagery from the Chinese Academy of Sciences (CAS).\n\nFrom its source, the river runs for nearly in a generally easterly direction between the main range of the Himalayas to the south and the Kailas Range to the north. Throughout its upper course, the river is generally known as the Tsangpo (“Purifier”); it is also known by its Chinese name (Yarlung Zangbo) and by other local Tibetan names.\n\nIn Tibet, the Tsangpo receives a number of tributaries. The most important left-bank tributaries are the Raka Zangbo (Raka Tsangpo), which joins the river west of Xigazê (Shigatse), and the Lhasa (Kyi), which flows past the Tibetan capital of Lhasa and joins the Tsangpo at Qüxü. The Nyang Qu (Gyamda) River joins the river from the north at Zela (Tsela Dzong). On the right bank, a second river called the Nyang Qu (Nyang Chu) meets the Tsangpo at Xigazê.\n\nAfter passing Pi (Pe) in Tibet, the river turns suddenly to the north and northeast and cuts a course through a succession of great narrow gorges between the mountainous massifs of Gyala Peri and Namcha Barwa in a series of rapids and cascades. Thereafter, the river turns south and southwest and flows through a deep gorge (the “Grand Canyon” of the Tsangpo) across the eastern extremity of the Himalayas with canyon walls that extend upward for and more on each side. During that stretch, the river enters northern Arunachal Pradesh state in northeastern India, where it is known as the Dihang (or Siang) River, and turns more southerly.\n\nThe Brahmaputra enters India in the state of Arunachal Pradesh, where it is called Siang. It makes a very rapid descent from its original height in Tibet, and finally appears in the plains, where it is called Dihang. It flows for about and is joined by the Dibang River and the Lohit River at the head of the Assam Valley. Below the Lohit, the river is called Brahmaputra and Burlung-Buthur by native Bodo tribals, it then enters the state of Assam, and becomes very wide—as wide as in parts of Assam.\n\nThe Dihang, winding out of the mountains, turns toward the southeast and descends into a low-lying basin as it enters northeastern Assam state. Just west of the town of Sadiya, the river again turns to the southwest and is joined by two mountain streams, the Lohit and the Dibang. Below that confluence, about from the Bay of Bengal, the river becomes known conventionally as the Brahmaputra (\"Son of Brahma\"). In Assam, the river is mighty, even in the dry season, and during the rains, its banks are more than apart. As the river follows its braided course through the valley, it receives several rapidly rushing Himalayan streams, including the Subansiri, Kameng, Bhareli, Dhansiri, Manas, Champamati, Saralbhanga, and Sankosh Rivers. The main tributaries from the hills and from the plateau to the south are the Burhi Dihing, the Disang, the Dikhu, and the Kopili.\n\nBetween Dibrugarh and Lakhimpur Districts, the river divides into two channels—the northern Kherkutia channel and the southern Brahmaputra channel. The two channels join again about downstream, forming the Majuli island, which is the largest river island in the world. At Guwahati, near the ancient pilgrimage centre of Hajo, the Brahmaputra cuts through the rocks of the Shillong Plateau, and is at its narrowest at bank-to-bank. Because of the river's narrow width, the Battle of Saraighat was fought here in March 1671. The first combined rail/road bridge across the Brahmaputra was opened to traffic in April 1962 at Saraighat.\n\nThe environment of the Brahmaputra floodplains in Assam have been described as the Brahmaputra Valley semi-evergreen forests ecoregion.\n\nIn Bangladesh, the Brahmaputra is joined by the Teesta River (or Tista), one of its largest tributaries. Below the Tista, the Brahmaputra splits into two distributary branches. The western branch, which contains the majority of the river's flow, continues due south as the Jamuna () to merge with the lower Ganga, called the Padma River (). The eastern branch, formerly the larger, but now much smaller, is called the lower or old Brahmaputra (). It curves southeast to join the Meghna River near Dhaka. The Padma and Meghna converge near Chandpur and flow out into the Bay of Bengal. This final part of the river is called Meghna.\n\nThe Brahmaputra enters the plains of Bangladesh after turning south around the Garo Hills below Dhuburi, India. After flowing past Chilmari, Bangladesh, it is joined on its right bank by the Tista River and then follows a 240 km (150-mi) course due south as the Jamuna River. (South of Gaibanda, the Old Brahmaputra leaves the left bank of the main stream and flows past Jamalpur and Mymensingh to join the Meghna River at Bhairab Bazar.) Before its confluence with the Ganga, the Jamuna receives the combined waters of the Baral, Atrai, and Hurasagar Rivers on its right bank and becomes the point of departure of the large Dhaleswari River on its left bank. A tributary of the Dhaleswari, the Buriganga (“Old Ganga”), flows past Dhaka, the capital of Bangladesh, and joins the Meghna River above Munshiganj.\n\nThe Jamuna joins with the Ganga north of Goalundo Ghat, below which, as the Padma, their combined waters flow to the southeast for a distance of about . After several smaller channels branch off to feed the Ganga-Brahmaputra delta to the south, the main body of the Padma reaches its confluence with the Meghna River near Chandpur and then enters the Bay of Bengal through the Meghna estuary and lesser channels flowing through the delta. The growth of the Ganga-Brahmaputra Delta is dominated by tidal processes.\n\nThe Ganga Delta, fed by the waters of numerous rivers, including the Ganga and Brahmaputra, is the largest river deltas in the world.\n\nThe basin of the Brahmaputra river is 651 334 km and it is a good example of a braided river and meanders quite a bit and frequently forms temporary sand bars. A region of significant tectonic activity has developed in the Jamuna River and is associated with the Himalayan uplift and development of the Bengal foredeep. Several researchers has hypothesized that the underlying structural control on the location of the major river systems of Bangladesh. A zone of 'structural weakness' along the present course of the Ganga-Jamuna-Padma Rivers due to either a subsiding trough or a fault at depth has been observed by Morgan and Melntire.(1959). Scijmonsbergen (1999) contends that width changes in the Jamuna may respond to these faults and they may also cause increased sedimentation upstream of the fault. He presented a few images to argue that a fault downstream of the Bangabandhu Multipurpose Bridge has affected channel migration. Huge accumulations of sediment that have been fed from Himalayan erosion has been produced due to the deepening of the Bengal Basin, with the thickness of sediment above the Precambrian basement increasing from a few hundred metres in the shelf region to over 18 km in the Bengal foredeep to the south. The tectonic and climatic context for the large water and sediment discharges in the rivers of Bangladesh was set by the ongoing subsidence in the Bengal Basin, combined with high rates of Himalayan uplift. The control of uplift and subsidence is, however, clear. The courses of the Jamuna and Ganga Rivers are first-order controls due to the fact that they are most influenced by the uplifted Plcistoccnc terraces of the Barind and Madhupur tracts.\n\nThe Ganga-Brahmaputra system has the third-greatest average discharge of the world’s rivers—roughly 30,770 m (1,086,500 ft) per second; and the river Brahmaputra alone supplies about 19,800 m (700,000 ft) per second of the total discharge. The rivers’ combined suspended sediment load of about 1.87 billion tonnes (1.84 billion tons) per year is the world’s highest.\n\nIn the past, the lower course of the Brahmaputra was different and passed through the Jamalpur and Mymensingh districts. In a 7.5 magnitude earthquake on 2 April 1762, however, the main channel of the Brahmaputra at Bhahadurabad point was switched southwards and opened as Jamuna due to the result of tectonic uplift of the Madhupur tract.\n\nRising temperature is one of the major cause of snow-melting at the upper Brahmaputra catchment. The discharge of the river Brahmaputra is highly affected by the melting of snow at the upper part of its catchment. The attenuation of river flow due to the melting of snow in the river Brahmaputra basin affects the downstream discharge of the river. This increase in discharge due to significant retreat of snow gives rise to severe catastrophic problems such as flood and erosion.\n\nThe hydrology of the Brahmaputra River is characterized by its significant rates of sediment discharge, the large and variable flows, along with its rapid channel aggradations and accelerated rates of basin denudation. Over time, the deepening of the Bengal Basin caused by erosion will results in the increase in hydraulic radius, and hence allowing for the huge accumulation of sediments fed from the Himalayan erosion by efficient sediment transportation. The thickness of the sediment accumulated above the Precambrian basement has increased over the years from a few hundred meters to over 18 km in the Bengal fore-deep to the south. The ongoing subsidence of the Bengal Basin and the high rate of Himalayan uplift continues to contribute to the large water and sediment discharges of fine sand and silt, with 1% clay, in the Brahmaputra River.\n\nClimatic change plays a crucial role in affecting the basin hydrology. Throughout the year, there is a significant rise in hydrograph, with a broad peak between July and September. The Brahmaputra River experiences two high-water seasons, one in early summer caused by snow melt in the mountains, and one in late summer caused by runoff from monsoon rains. The river flow is strongly influenced by snow and ice melting of the glaciers, which are located mainly on the eastern Himalaya regions in the upstream parts of the basin. The snow and glacier melt contribution to the total annual runoff is about 27%, while the annual rainfall contributes to about 1.9m and 19,830 m3 /s of discharge. The highest recorded daily discharge in the Brahmaputra at Pandu was 72,726 m3 /s August 1962 while the lowest was 1,757 m3 /s in February 1968. The increased rates of snow and glacial melt are likely to increase summer flows in some river systems for a few decades, followed by a reduction in flow as the glaciers disappear and snowfall diminishes. This is particularly true for the dry season when water availability is crucial for the irrigation systems.\n\nThe course of the Brahmaputra River has changed drastically in the past two and a half centuries, moving its river course westwards for a distance of about , leaving its old river course, appropriately named the old Brahmaputra river, behind. In the past, the floodplain of the old river course had soils which were more properly formed compared to graded sediments on the operating Jamuna river. This change of river course resulted in modifications to the soil-forming process, which include acidification, breakdown of clays and buildup of organic matter, with the soils showing an increasing amount of biotic homogenization, mottling, coating arounds Peds and maturing soil arrangement, shape and pattern. In the future, the consequences of local ground subsidence coupled with flood prevention propositions, for instance localised breakwaters, that increase flood-plain water depths outside the water breakers, may alter the water levels of the floodplains. Throughout the years, bars, scroll bars and sand dunes are formed at the edge of the flood plain by deposition. The height difference of the channel topography is often not more than 1m-2m. Furthermore, flooding over history of the river has caused the formation of river levees due to deposition from overbank flow. The height difference between the levee top and the surrounding floodplains is typically 1m along small channels and 2-3m along major channels. Crevasse splay, a sedimentary fluvial deposit which forms when a stream breaks its natural or artificial levees and deposits sediment on a floodplain, are often formed due to a breach in levee, forming a lobe of sediments which progrades onto the adjacent floodplain. Lastly, flood basins are often formed between the levees of adjacent rivers.\n\nDuring the monsoon season (June–October), floods are a very common occurrence. Deforestation in the Brahmaputra watershed has resulted in increased siltation levels, flash floods, and soil erosion in critical downstream habitat, such as the Kaziranga National Park in middle Assam. Occasionally, massive flooding causes huge losses to crops, life, and property. Periodic flooding is a natural phenomenon which is ecologically important because it helps maintain the lowland grasslands and associated wildlife. Periodic floods also deposit fresh alluvium, replenishing the fertile soil of the Brahmaputra River Valley. Thus flooding, agriculture, and agricultural practices are closely connected.\n\nThe effects of flooding can be devastating and cause significant damage to crops and houses, serious bank erosive with consequent loss of homesteads, school and land, and loss of many lives, livestock and fisheries. During the 1998 flood, over 70% of the land area of Bangladesh was inundated, affecting 31 million people and 1 million homesteads. In the 1998 flood which had an unusually long duration from July to September, claimed 918 human lives and was responsible for damaging 16 00 and 6000 km of roads and embankments respectively, and affecting 6000 km of standing crops. The 2004 floods, over 25% of the population of Bangladesh or 36 million people, was affected by the floods; 800 lives were lost; 952 000 houses were destroyed and 1.4 million were badly damaged; 24 000 educational institutions were affected including the destruction of 1200 primary schools, 2 million governments and private tubewells were affected, over 3 million latrines were damaged or washed away, this increases the risks of waterborne diseases including diarrhea and cholera. Also, 1.1 M ha of rice crop was submerged and lost before it could be harvested, with 7% of the yearly \"aus\" (early season) rice crop lost; 270 000 ha of grazing land was affected, 5600 livestock perished together with 254 00 poultry and 63 MT of lost fish production.\n\nFlood-control measures are taken by water resource department and the Brahmaputra Board, but until now the flood problem remains unsolved. At least a third of the land of Majuli island has been eroded by the river. Recently, it is suggested that a highway protected by concrete mat along the river bank and excavation of the river bed can curb this menace. This project, named the Brahmaputra River Restoration Project, is yet to be implemented by the government.Recently the Central Government approved the construction of Brahmaputra Express Highways.\n\nThe course of the Brahmaputra River has changed dramatically over the past 250 years, with evidence of large-scale avulsion, in the period 1776–1850, of 80 km from east of the Madhupur tract to the west of it. Prior to 1843, the Brahmaputra flowed within the channel now termed the \"old Brahmaputra\". The banks of the river are mostly weakly cohesive sand and silts, which usually erodes through large scale slab failure, where previously deposited materials undergo scour and bank erosion during flood periods. Presently, the river’s erosion rate has decreased to 30m per year as compared to 150m per year from 1973 to 1992. This erosion has, however, destroyed so much land that it has caused 0.7 million people to become homeless due to loss of land.\n\nSeveral studies have discussed the reasons for the avulsion of the river into its present course, and have suggested a number of reasons including tectonic activity, switches in upstream course of the Teesta River, the influence of increased discharge, catastrophic floods and river capture into an old river course. From an analysis of maps of the river between 1776 and 1843, it was concluded in a study that the river avulsion was more likely gradual than catastrophic and sudden, and may have been generated by bank erosion, perhaps around a large mid-channel bar, causing a diversion of the channel into the existing floodplain channel.\n\nThe Brahmaputra channel is governed by the peak and low flow periods during which its bed undergoes tremendous modification. The Brahmaputra's bankline migration is inconsistent with time. The Brahmaputra river bed has widened significantly since 1916 and appears to be shifting more towards the south than towards the north. Together with the contemporary slow migration of the river, the left bank is being eroded away faster than the right bank.\nThe Brahmaputra River experiences high levels of bank erosion (usually via slab failure) and channel migration caused by its strong current, lack of river bank vegetation, and loose sand and silt which compose its banks. It is thus difficult to build permanent structures on the river, and protective structures designed to limit the river’s erosional effects often face numerous issues during and after construction. In fact, a 2004 report by the Bangladesh Disaster and Emergency Sub-Group (BDER) has stated that several of such protective systems have 'just failed'. However, some progress has been made in the form of construction works which stabilize sections of the river, albeit the need for heavy maintenance. The Bangabandhu Bridge, the only bridge to span the river's major distributary, the Jamuna, was thus opened in June 1998. Constructed at a narrow braid belt of the river, it is 4.8 km long with a platform 18.5 m wide, and it is used to carry railroad traffic as well as gas, power and telecommunication lines. Due to the variable nature of the river, prediction of the river’s future course is crucial in planning upstream engineering to prevent flooding on the bridge.\n\nChina had built the Zangmu Dam in the upper course of the Brahmaputra River in the Tibet region and it was operationalised on 13 October 2015. The main purpose of the dam was to generate electricity for China and its operation has caused concerns for downstream neighbors like India as the presence of dams in the upper course of the river will mean unpredictability in the dynamics of downstream flows. Brahmaputra waters can be supplied to most of the areas in India by constructing a coastal reservoir to store water on the Bay of Bengal sea area.\n\nEarly accounts give its name as Dyardanes. In the past, the course of the lower Brahmaputra was different and passed through the Jamalpur and Mymensingh districts. Some water still flows through that course, now called the Old Brahmaputra, as a distributary of the main channel.\n\nA question about the river system in Bangladesh is when and why the Brahmaputra changed its main course, at the site of the Jamuna and the \"Old Brahmaputra\" fork that can be seen by comparing modern maps to historic maps before the 1800s. The Brahmaputra likely flowed directly south along its present main channel for much of the time since the last glacial maximum, switching back and forth between the two courses several times throughout the Holocene.\n\nOne idea about the most recent avulsion is that the change in the course of the main waters of the Brahmaputra took place suddenly in 1787, the year of the heavy flooding of the river Tista.\n\nIn the middle of the 18th century, at least three fair-sized streams flowed between the Rajshahi and Dhaka Divisions, viz., the Daokoba, a branch of the Tista, the Monash or Konai, and the Salangi. The Lahajang and the Elengjany were also important rivers. In Renault's time, the Brahmaputra as a first step towards securing a more direct course to the sea by leaving the Mahdupur Jungle to the east began to send a considerable volume of water down the Jinai or Jabuna from Jamalpur into the Monash and Salangi. These rivers gradually coalesced and kept shifting to the west till they met the Daokoba, which was showing an equally rapid tendency to cut towards the east. The junction of these rivers gave the Brahmaputra a course worthy of her immense power, and the rivers to right and left silted up. In Renault's Altas they very much resemble the rivers of Jessore, which dried up after the hundred-mouthed Ganga had cut her new channel to join the Meghna at the south of the Munshiganj subdivision.\n\nIn 1809, Francis Buchanan-Hamilton wrote that the new channel between Bhawanipur and Dewanranj \"was scarcely inferior to the mighty river, and threatens to sweep away the intermediate country\". By 1830, the old channel had been reduced to its present insignificance. It was navigable by country boats throughout the year and by launches only during rains, but at the point as low as Jamalpur it was formidable throughout the cold weather. Similar was the position for two or three months just below Mymensingh also.\n\nThe waters of the River Brahmaputra are shared by China, India, and Bangladesh. In the 1990s and 2000s, there was repeated speculation that mentioned Chinese plans to build a dam at the Great Bend, with a view to divert the waters to the north of the country. This has been denied by the Chinese government for many years. At the Kathmandu Workshop of Strategic Foresight Group in August 2009 on Water Security in the Himalayan Region, which brought together in a rare development leading hydrologists from the basin countries, the Chinese scientists argued that it was not feasible for China to undertake such a diversion. However, on 22 April 2010, China confirmed that it was indeed building the Zangmu Dam on the Brahmaputra in Tibet, but assured India that the project would not have any significant effect on the downstream flow to India. This claim has also been reiterated by the Government of India, in an attempt to assuage domestic criticism of Chinese dam construction on the river, but is one that remains hotly debated. Recent years have seen an intensification of grassroots opposition, especially in the state of Assam, against Chinese upstream dam building, as well as growing criticism of the Indian government for its perceived failure to respond appropriately to Chinese hydropower plans.\n\nIn a meeting of scientists at Dhaka at 2010, 25 leading experts from the basin countries issued a Dhaka Declaration on Water Security calling for exchange of information in low-flow periods, and other means of collaboration. Even though the 1997 UN Watercourses Convention does not prevent any of the basin countries from building a dam upstream, customary law offers some relief to the lower riparian countries. There is also potential for China, India, and Bangladesh to cooperate on transboundary water navigation.\n\nThe lives of many millions of Indian and Bangladeshi citizens are reliant on the Brahmaputra river. Its delta is home to 130 million people and 600 000 people live on the riverine islands. These people rely on the annual 'normal' flood to bring moisture and fresh sediments to the floodplain soils, hence providing the necessities for agricultural and marine farming. In fact, two of the three seasonal rice varieties (aus and aman) cannot survive without the floodwater. Furthermore, the fish caught both on the floodplain during flood season and from the many floodplain ponds are the main source of protein for many rural populations.\n\n\nNational Waterway 2 (NW2) is 891 km long Sadiya-Dhubri stretch of Brahmaputra River in Assam.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "25596779", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25596779", "title": "Chagan Lake (China)", "text": "Chagan Lake (China)\n\nChagan Lake () is a lake in Jilin, China. The name \"Chagan\" is from Mongolian (, transliteration : , Cyrillic mongolian : , transliteration MNS : ), meaning \"white lac\". The lake is often referred to as Sacred Pond (?) or Holy Water Lake () by local people. The lake is known for traditional winter fishing that dates back to prehistoric times.\n\nChagan Lake is the only place that saves the oldest Mongolia fishing method. It is listed as a National Intangible Cultural Heritage of the People's Republic of China.\n\nThe annual Winter Fishing Festival is held to remember the old winter fishing tradition. Fishermen first drill many holes through the thick ice and then place net under the ice. The Lake set a Guinness World Record of a single net that yielded fish in 2006, and broke its own record with of fish in 2009.\n"}
{"id": "100335", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=100335", "title": "Dhara (deity)", "text": "Dhara (deity)\n\nIn Hinduism, Dharā (Sanskrit: धरा; Support) is one of the Vasus, gods of the physical cosmos. He represents the earth and the element earth, though Earth is usually the goddess Prithvi rather than a god. Dhārā (Sanskrit: धारा) is a Sanskrit term used to refer to the flow of a stream or waterfall.\n\n"}
{"id": "47184006", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47184006", "title": "Dilek Peninsula-Büyük Menderes Delta National Park", "text": "Dilek Peninsula-Büyük Menderes Delta National Park\n\nDilek Peninsula-Büyük Menderes Delta National Park (), established on May 19, 1966, is a national park in western Turkey. It contains within its borders the entirety of the Dilek Peninsula as well as the large delta of the Büyük Menderes River. The park is located in the Kuşadası district of Aydın Province — part of Turkey's Aegean Region. Directly west of the national park is the small coastal town of Güzelçamlı, where several shuttle buses and ferries operate to and from the district's center of Kuşadası, approximately 30 km (19 mi) from the park.\n\nThe park is among the most biologically diverse of Turkey's national parks. It is the native and migratory habitat of hundreds of species of birds, mammals, plants, and marine life, some of which are entirely endemic to the park and cannot be observed anywhere else in the world. For these reasons, it is protected by numerous wildlife and wetland conventions, and is of great national and international importance in these areas.\n\nIt is separated from the Greek island of Samos () by a very narrow strait, known as the Mycale Strait (). The strait is named after Mount Mycale, the highest and most prominent mountain of the peninsula, and is one of the narrowest straits in the Aegean Sea.\n\nFor most of the area's existence, the lands from the Dilek Peninsula southwards to the end of the Büyük Menderes River's large delta were uninhabited by people or very sparsely settled, and were otherwise untouched by human influence. As a result of this isolation, the area was considerably populated with numerous species of plants and wildlife, most of which still remain within the park today. Eventually, under Ancient Greek and especially Ionian influence, several settlements near Mount Mycale and the Büyük Menderes Delta were built, such as Priene and Miletus. Nearby, Panionium was erected as the meeting place of the Ionian League. During modern times, and despite a significant increase in population and density in areas near the port town of Kuşadası, it was not until May 19, 1966 that the Turkish Ministry of Forest and Water Management declared Dilek Peninsula a government-protected national park. Several decades later, in 1994, the Büyük Menderes river delta adjacent to the peninsula in the south was also promoted to national park status.\n\nIn early 2005, a severely wounded Mediterranean monk seal (\"Monachus monachus\") was found within the Büyük Menderes Delta. It was treated immediately, but due to complications died shortly afterwards. The Mediterranean monk seal is critically endangered, with only about 600 remaining in the world, and over 100 of which are within the maritime borders of Turkey.\n\nControversy surrounded the park in April 2010 after the chairman of the Aydın Beekeepers Association, Kadir Kılıç, claimed that beekeepers would be dispatched at the national park, which had been banned since its establishment in 1966. Debate continued for a short period of time, but the dispute was soon settled, as a representative of the Governor's Office of Aydın publicly asserted the provincial government's position on the matter. They denied the claims and confirmed that beekeepers would not be introduced to the park. Beekeepers are currently not allowed as a means of conserving the abundant flora of the park, many of which rely on bees for pollination.\n\nThe national park is in total land area, with the peninsula itself having an area of about , with a width of around from north to south and a length of east to west. It is located approximately from Davutlar, about from the district's seat of Kuşadası (estimates range from 23-30 kilometres), and is directly adjacent to the town of Güzelçamlı. Other nearby cities in Aydın Province have access roads to the park, including Aydın, Söke and, to a lesser extent, Didim.\n\nThe Mycale Strait separates the peninsula from the nearby island of Samos. Named after Mount Mycale, the strait is only about long at its narrowest point, making it one of the Aegean Sea's smallest straits.\n\nThe mountainous terrain of the peninsula and its numerous caverns, canyons, and valleys result in the area being of high interest to both visitors and researchers. There are several coves along the shore that have been named in order to identify them easily. Upon entering the park from the east, the first and easternmost beach available to the public is known as İçmeler Cove (). This cove's waters are shallower than any other in the park, and its beaches are sandy, unlike some of the coves farther out. Therefore, it appears to be more popular amongst tourists than most of the remaining beaches and parts of Kuşadası are visible along the horizon from it. Aydınlık Cove is situated about further to the west, and has pebbly shores and deeper waters. It marks the transition point where the waters of the peninsula's beaches become more challenging. As a result, these beaches tend to attract more experienced swimmers and locals rather than tourists. After passing the jandarma (public safety patrol) checkpoint, a turn onto a road leads to a nearby canyon, immediately to the left. From this point on, there are several trails through the forests of the peninsula. One of them leads to the village of Doğanbey, and if followed further, leads to the nearby ancient Hellenistic port city of Karine. However, this path's final are limited in access, and a permit or an accompanying tour guide is required to proceed. The third cove along the peninsula, Kavaklı Burun Cove, and the final, westernmost cove accessible to the public, Karasu Cove, both provide close views of the island of Samos, and are significantly less visited than the former coves of the peninsula. At the very end of the peninsula appears its tallest mountain, Mycale (), which looms over Samos and the strait of its namesake.\n\nImmediately upon entry into the national park, a fork in the main path begins a trail running through the inner peninsula leading to a local cavern known as the Cave of Zeus (). The entrance is dense in vegetation, covering parts of it. There is also a wishing tree to which people usually tie objects and belongings, hoping for their wishes to be granted. The Cave of Zeus is filled with clear subterranean spring water, making it another common tourist attraction near the national park. Visits to the cave typically increase as the waters of the nearby beaches become rougher, thereby making them less inviting. The cave's name invokes the many legends that concern the cave and its origins, including one holding that Zeus bathed in the cave.\n\nThe wide mouth of the Büyük Menderes River () empties at the Aegean Sea, with an area of ; larger than the entire Dilek Peninsula directly to the north, at only . The Büyük Menderes Delta is one of the most diverse wetlands in Turkey in terms of both vegetation and marine life, and is protected by several wetland agreements such as the Ramsar Convention. Its biodiversity is derived in part from the fertile lands and fresh waters of the delta, attracting numerous species to the area, including several migratory birds. The nearby mountains of the peninsula cause a marked temperature difference between the northern and southern faces of the peninsula, producing a corollary variance in the types of species found in the delta region. The area features a trail for visitors and options for canoeing and picnicking.\nDilek Peninsula-Büyük Menderes Delta National Park has a Mediterranean climate (Köppen climate classification \"Csa\"), and as such, it is dry and mild throughout most of the year, except during the winters, when most of the yearly precipitation occurs. The average temperature year-round is about , ranging from average lows of in the winter to highs of around in the summer. However, on the mountaintops, as altitude increases, temperatures are usually much lower, with the annual mean temperature usually being no higher than . There are additional precipitation differences depending on elevation, and also between the north and south sides of the peninsula. Such precipitation amounts range from annually. Therefore, different species of foliage and plants live at higher altitudes than those at ground level, and the same is true when comparing the southern face of the peninsula and areas of the river delta with those to the north.\n\nThe terrain of the peninsula has much to do with the geology of the Aegean Region in general. The peninsula was shaped into its current form over several geological eras with the tectonic merging of Paleozoic schist formations, Mesozoic limestone and marble deposits, and finally the accretion of large clays and other sediments during the Neogene period. This is partly because of Turkey's unstable fault block terrain, and because of the close proximity of the Anatolian-Aegean plate boundary, which generates massifs of mountains all across western Turkey. This includes the peninsula and the mountains surrounding the Büyük Menderes River, known collectively as the Menderes Massif.\n\nThe peninsula is highly mountainous, with most of its mountains having elevations close to above mean sea level. Its highest mountain, Mount Mycale, is approximately high.\n\nThe national park is quite diverse in its wildlife and vegetation, hosting approximately 804 distinct species of plants, 256 bird species, and an otherwise considerable variety of mammals, reptiles, and marine life. The entirety of the national park, including both Dilek Peninsula National Park and Büyük Menderes Delta National Park, is currently protected under the Ramsar Convention, the Berne Convention on the Conservation of European Wildlife and Natural Habitats, the Rio Convention on Biological Diversity, and the Barcelona Convention.\n\nThe park has a large diversity of vegetation. Due to the temperature and climate differences between different areas and elevations of the park, not only is the typical Aegean flora present, but also many specimens normally only found in separate coastal areas of Turkey, such as in the Mediterranean, Marmara, and Black Sea regions.\n\nOut of the 804 species of flora distributed throughout the park, six are endemic, completely exclusive to the park area, and cannot be observed anywhere else on earth, while another 30 are indigenous. The most common and widely distributed plant species throughout the national park are Mediterranean maquis shrubs such as the Phoenician juniper (\"Juniperus phoenicea\"). Other common vegetative species within the area include the oleaster-leafed pear (\"Pyrus elaeagnifolia\"), Turkish pine (\"Pinus brutia\"), and elm-leaved sumach (\"Rhus coriaria\").\nIn total, 28 species of mammals, 42 species of reptiles, and 45 fish species have been documented within the park.\nSeveral wild boars (\"Sus scrofa\") are native to the park. They are often found near the beaches where they feed on scraps and trash dropped by visitors. Further within the forests of the peninsula, other mammals can be spotted, such as golden jackals (\"Canis aureus\"), Eurasian lynx (\"Lynx lynx\"), and even several striped hyenas (\"Hyaena hyaena\") and caracals (\"Caracal caracal\"), among many others usually not native to such areas.\n\nAlong the southern shores of the peninsula, and within the river delta, exist a range of bird and marine life. Many of these species are endangered, which was one of the primary factors considered when placing the delta under national protection. Some of the more common bird species observed here include pygmy cormorants (\"Microcarbo pygmeus\"), little egrets (\"Egretta garzetta\"), lesser kestrels (\"Falco naumanni\"), Kentish plovers (\"Charadrius alexandrinus\"), white-tailed eagles (\"Haliaeetus albicilla\"), and the Dalmatian pelicans (\"Pelecanus crispus\"), for which the park is a key nesting place. Marine life consists of species typical of the Aegean Sea, as well as some species usually found elsewhere.\n\nThe biodiversity of local oceanic fauna is not well understood. Sea turtles and mammals, including monk seals, fin whales (only 1 sighting and 5 strandings have been documented in Turkish waters), and dolphins are considered to reside in the park area, although regularity of occurrences are unclear.\n\nNature photography is a common activity in the park due to the large variety of flora and fauna, as well as landscape photography due to the mountainous terrain and views. There are several forest trails and high-elevation ventures used by hikers and mountaineers respectively. There are numerous other activities available for visitors, as well as some prohibited activities. For example, although recreational fishing is allowed, there are severe consequences for anyone found hunting within the jurisdiction of the park.\n\nThe park is the most visited during the spring and summer months, when it is open between 8:00 and 19:00 (7:00 pm) local time. In autumn and winter, it closes at 17:00 (5:00 pm). Admission at the entrance must be paid. Camping, lighting fires, or setting up overnight shelters are strictly forbidden within the limits of the national park in order to protect the surrounding ecosystem. The park can be reached from the city center of Kuşadası via several dolmuş (share taxis) that regularly shuttle the route to the closest town of Güzelçamlı. Recently, there have also been ferry boat services operating back and forth between Kuşadası and Güzelçamlı, in turn providing easier access to the park for visitors. Each year, around 700,000 foreign and domestic tourists visit the park.\n\n"}
{"id": "5584274", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5584274", "title": "Divine twins", "text": "Divine twins\n\nThe divine twins are a mytheme of Proto-Indo-European religion.\n\n\nThe Yoruba orishas Ibeji, the Maya Hero Twins, and the Haitian vodoun Marassa Jumeaux are similar examples outside the Indo-European realm.\n\nO'Brien (1982) reconstructs a horse goddess with twin offspring, pointing to Gaulish Epona, Irish Macha (the twins reflected in Macha's pair, Liath Macha and Dub Sainglend), Welsh Rhiannon, and Eddaic Freyja in the tale of the construction of the walls of Asgard, seeing a vestige of the birth of hippomorphic twins in Loki in the form of a mare (in place of Freyja) giving birth to eight-legged Sleipnir. The myths surrounding Hengest and Horsa could come from a common source, since they were descendants of Woden and Hengest's name meant \"stallion\" (in German: Hengst) Shapiro (1982) points to Slavic Volos and Veles, and collects the following comparative properties:\n\nOne recurring element in the divine twin theme is that, while identical, one is divine and the other is human. This points to other characters which partially reflect the mytheme, such as:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "60880", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=60880", "title": "Electrical phenomena", "text": "Electrical phenomena\n\nElectrical phenomena are commonplace and unusual events that can be observed and that illuminate the principles of the physics of electricity and are explained by them.\nElectrical phenomena are a somewhat arbitrary division of\nelectromagnetic phenomena.\n\nSome examples are\n\n\n"}
{"id": "27367275", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27367275", "title": "Envelope (waves)", "text": "Envelope (waves)\n\nIn physics and engineering, the envelope of an oscillating signal is a smooth curve outlining its extremes. The envelope thus generalizes the concept of a constant amplitude. The figure illustrates a modulated sine wave varying between an upper and a lower envelope. The envelope function may be a function of time, space, angle, or indeed of any variable.\n\nA common situation resulting in an envelope function in both space \"x\" and time \"t\" is the superposition of two waves of almost the same wavelength and frequency:\nwhich uses the trigonometric formula for the addition of two sine waves, and the approximation Δλ«λ:\n\nHere the \"modulation wavelength\" λ is given by:\nThe modulation wavelength is double that of the envelope itself because each half-wavelength of the modulating cosine wave governs both positive and negative values of the modulated sine wave. Likewise the \"beat frequency\" is that of the envelope, twice that of the modulating wave, or 2Δ\"f\".\n\nIf this wave is a sound wave, the ear hears the frequency associated with \"f\" and the amplitude of this sound varies with the beat frequency.\n\nThe argument of the sinusoids above apart from a factor 2 are:\nwith subscripts \"C\" and \"E\" referring to the \"carrier\" and the \"envelope\". The same amplitude \"F\" of the wave results from the same values of ξ and ξ, each of which may itself return to the same value over different but properly related choices of \"x\" and \"t\". This invariance means that one can trace these waveforms in space to find the speed of a position of fixed amplitude as it propagates in time; for the argument of the carrier wave to stay the same, the condition is:\nwhich shows to keep a constant amplitude the distance Δ\"x\" is related to the time interval Δ\"t\" by the so-called \"phase velocity\" \"v\"\n\nOn the other hand, the same considerations show the envelope propagates at the so-called \"group velocity\" \"v\":\n\nA more common expression for the group velocity is obtained by introducing the \"wavevector\" \"k\":\nWe notice that for small changes Δλ, the magnitude of the corresponding small change in wavevector, say Δ\"k\", is:\nso the group velocity can be rewritten as:\n\nwhere ω is the frequency in radians/s: ω = 2π\"f\". In all media, frequency and wavevector are related by a \"dispersion relation\", ω = ω(\"k\"), and the group velocity can be written:\n\nIn a medium such as classical vacuum the dispersion relation for electromagnetic waves is:\nwhere \"c\" is the speed of light in classical vacuum. For this case, the phase and group velocities both are \"c\".\n\nIn so-called \"dispersive media\" the dispersion relation can be a complicated function of wavevector, and the phase and group velocities are not the same. For example, for several types of waves exhibited by atomic vibrations (phonons) in GaAs, the dispersion relations are shown in the figure for various directions of wavevector k. In the general case, the phase and group velocities may have different directions.\n\nIn condensed matter physics an energy eigenfunction for a mobile charge carrier in a crystal can be expressed as a Bloch wave:\n\nwhere \"n\" is the index for the band (for example, conduction or valence band) r is a spatial location, and k is a wavevector. The exponential is a sinusoidally varying function corresponding to a slowly varying envelope modulating the rapidly varying part of the wavefunction \"u\" describing the behavior of the wavefunction close to the cores of the atoms of the lattice. The envelope is restricted to k-values within a range limited by the Brillouin zone of the crystal, and that limits how rapidly it can vary with location r.\n\nIn determining the behavior of the carriers using quantum mechanics, the \"envelope approximation\" usually is used in which the Schrödinger equation is simplified to refer only to the behavior of the envelope, and boundary conditions are applied to the envelope function directly, rather than to the complete wavefunction. For example, the wavefunction of a carrier trapped near an impurity is governed by an envelope function \"F\" that governs a superposition of Bloch functions:\nwhere the Fourier components of the envelope \"F\"(k) are found from the approximate Schrödinger equation. In some applications, the periodic part \"u\" is replaced by its value near the band edge, say k=k, and then:\n\nDiffraction patterns from multiple slits have envelopes determined by the single slit diffraction pattern. For a single slit the pattern is given by:\nwhere α is the diffraction angle, \"d\" is the slit width, and λ is the wavelength. For multiple slits, the pattern is \nwhere \"q\" is the number of slits, and \"g\" is the grating constant. The first factor, the single-slit result \"I\", modulates the more rapidly varying second factor that depends upon the number of slits and their spacing.\n\n"}
{"id": "39399168", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39399168", "title": "Environmental issues in Southern Africa", "text": "Environmental issues in Southern Africa\n\n\"For more about region: Southern Africa\"\n\nMany environmental issues affect Southern Africa due to urbanization and the acts needed in order to survive. Southern Africa is the southern region of the continent Africa. It consists of countries such as: Angola, Botswana, Lesotho, Malawi, Mozambique, Namibia, South Africa, Swaziland, Zambia, and Zimbabwe. Lesotho is surrounded by South Africa (it is in the middle of South Africa). Through an attempt of keeping up with the developing world, and trying to meet the high demands of the growing population, Southern Africa has exhausted its many resources resulting in severe environmental damage. Southern Africa's log, and produce are the cores of their economy, and this region has become dependent on these resources. The continuous depleting and improper treatment of their natural resources have led Southern Africa to the state where they are only harming their environment. \nSome environmental issues that affect Southern Africa are: water pollution, air pollution, land degradation, solid waste pollution, and deforestation. The environmental damage affects not only the population's health, but also the species that live in the area, while also contributing to the worldwide issue of climate change.\n\n\"For more about: Water supply and sanitation in South Africa\"\n\nOne of Southern Africa's biggest issues is the lack of clean water. According to The United Nations Convention on Climate Change on South Africa in 2000, the water around Africa is unevenly distributed, meaning that 60% of the water is situated in only 20% of the land. Less than 10% of Southern Africa's surface water is accessible and due to the fact that a majority of their ground water lay under large rock formations, ground water becomes difficult to access as well. Climate change and its attendant effects on temperature and precipitation may have an additional impact.\n\nMany Africans are moving to rural areas, adding to the already high demands for clean water and while demands are growing drastically, freshwater supplies remain limited. Adding to the high demands, Durban’s dam has decreased by 20% since 2010, and up to 30% of the water has either been stolen or given away illegally through international trading. “A review of water availability in 1996 estimated that the total average annual surface runoff was 150 million cubic metres, the maximum potential annual system yield was 33 290 million cubic metres, and total water annual requirements were 20 045 million cubic metres. Water requirements could increase by about 50% by 2030 (Department of Water and Forestry, 2000a).”\n\nAlthough South Africa has one of the best, cleanest water out of all the countries in Southern Africa, many don’t have access to basic sanitations. A majority of Southern Africa's accessible water is unclean, making the water vulnerable for water transmitted diseases to exist. Water-borne diseases such as Hepatitis A and Hepatitis E increase, while some of the water become so unclean that diseases such as: Typhoid fever, Leptospirosis, Schistosomiasis, and Bilharzia are transmitted through water contact.\n\nAs the population of people moving to urbanized areas increase, the demands for food supply also grow. As a mean to keep up with these high demands, the use of fertilization and sewage contamination also incline. Nitrates and phosphates found in fertilizers and sewage wastes causes eutrophication, which is harmful to other species in the environment. Eutrophication increases algae blooms, which may cause illnesses such as: diarrhea, hayfever, skin rashes, vomiting, fevers, gastroenteritis, muscle and joint pains, and eye irritations.\nhttps://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Environmental_issues_in_Southern_Africa 01/03/2018\n\nSouth Africa is situated at the very tip of Southern Africa. This location causes South Africa to become very vulnerable to oil spills. High levels of oil is transported from the Middle East to Europe and America along the coast, making Southern African's water and ecosystem at risk to being severely damaged.\n\nCoal mining is one of Southern Africa's main energy source, but it holds a huge negative impact on the land's water, air and soil quality. Acid mine drainage is the result of the excess coal mining that occurs. Sulphuric Acid is released from coal mining, and although the generalizing process is slow, the time it takes for the acid to neutralize is equally as slow. When clean, excess water is released from the rock masses that are broken through mining, it's mixed with the sulphuric acid causing the water to become toxic. This toxic, contaminated water kills plants and animals, while also dissolving aluminum and heavy minerals found in clean water (increasing toxicity level). Although rocks which contain calcium carbonate are able to neutralize the acidic water, Southern Africa does not have the rocks which contain these minerals.\n\nFor a link to see the graph for the total primary energy supply in Africa, 2010 and more, click Here\n\nIn this developing region, low-grade fuels are used to meet high demands for food, and energy. SO and CO are released in the air, and due to deforestation and the growing amount of air pollution, the air pollutants in the atmosphere are slowly building up.\n\nDuring the winter, pollutants are trapped in the air due to the high pressure, and are unable to move or dissipate. In the summer, due to the low pressure, pollutants are dissipated through unstable circulation. Many women are also cooking indoors with fossil fuels, which is the main cause for the health problems in women and children.\n\n75.2% of Southern Africa's energy come from Highveld Areas, where 5 of its 10 Eskom Power Stations are the largest in the world. Highveld areas are above sea level, making the oxygen level 20% less than the oxygen level in the coast. This results in an incomplete combustion of fossil fuels, and a severe nocturnal temperature inversion to occur; which results in smoke being trapped in the air 860 tons of SO is produced from 3 of their main power stations (Matla, Duvha and Arnot), “which exceeds the World Health Organisation’s (WHO) [exposure to particulate matter] standards of 180 mg.m-3 by 6 to 7 times during winter months (Annegarn et al. 1996 a,b)”. This high concentration of air pollution surround the area making it very dangerous to one's health.\n\nTo see graphs indicating South Africa's share of CO emissions, click Here\n\nWith the increase of population, and an increase in people who are moving to urbanized areas, the number of solid waste produced is increasing. South Africa's Department of Environmental Affairs and Tourism estimates that over half of the population of South Africa lack \"adequate\" solid waste treatment, instead, waste is often dumped, buried or burned.\n\nAs the population inclines, Southern Africa's demand for land also increases, contributing directly and indirectly to deforestation. Deforestation re-rates in Southern Africa was greater than other areas of Africa in the 1990s and are predicted to stay high.\ndue to degradation South Africa also tend to loss a big area that people settlement at, for an example in one of the province of South Africa which is Gauteng, as one of the most high populated province it experience a lot natural disasters due to uncontrollable forces. Here in this province people always seek for place of settlement and the area is occupied to an extend that there is not enough space for plantation.\n\nWith the decrease in water and the high demands for agriculture, Southern African's land is becoming less fertile. Climate change is also causing an increase in water evaporation from the soil, making it very difficult for produce in Southern Africa. Africa itself is located in an area where climate is unpredictable, making them vulnerable to climate change and while Southern Africa is semi-arid, it puts them at risk for desertification.\n\nDesertification causes an increase in soil erosion, making it difficult for plants to grow. This will lead to unsustainable food, and endanger Southern Africa's wildlife. Through time, soil erosion will result in harvesting alien plants. Alien plants threaten indigenous plants and reduce grazing areas, which contributes to soil erosion.\n\nSouthern Africa's land is already over cropped and over-grazed as a result of Africa's undistributed lands. With the combination of alien plants and the exhaustion of their lands, Southern Africa's degraded land is beyond repair.\nMany countries use the method of irrigation as a way to prevent desertification and droughts. Unfortunately, only 4% of Sub-Saharan Africa is equipped for irrigation. With the decrease in rainfall, and the lack of irrigation, Southern Africa's land and soil will soon become arid.\n\n"}
{"id": "1962646", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1962646", "title": "Fengite", "text": "Fengite\n\nFengite is a translucent sheet of marble or alabaster used during the Early Middle Ages for windows instead of glass.\n"}
{"id": "20755530", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20755530", "title": "Fyodor Ivanovich Tolstoy", "text": "Fyodor Ivanovich Tolstoy\n\nCount Fyodor Ivanovich Tolstoy (), also known as the \"American\" (Американец) (17 February 1782 – 5 November 1846) was a Russian nobleman from the well-known Tolstoy family. Possessed of an unusual temper, he became famous for his gambling, his passion for duels, and his voyage to North America, where he earned his nickname. He was acquainted with many famous authors of his period and served as a prototype for some of the characters in their works.\n\nTolstoy was one of seven children of Count Ivan Andreyevich Tolstoy (1747–1811) and his wife Anna Fyodorovna, who came from the Maikov family. Fyodor Tolstoy's place of birth is not known for certain; most likely he was born on the ancestral estate of the Tolstoys near Kologriv.\n\nDespite their high rank, the Tolstoys were at that time relatively poor, the result of a conflict with the authorities in the eighteenth century in which several members of the family were exiled or deprived of property. In order to ensure worthy careers for their sons, it was common in the Tolstoy family to send them to military schools. Thus, Fyodor Tolstoy, along with both his brothers, were educated at the Naval Cadet Corps in Saint Petersburg.\nWhile still a boy Tolstoy possessed, according to the memoirs of his contemporaries, an uncommon physical strength, endurance, and dexterity, which fulfilled the necessary prerequisites for a successful military career. At the same time, he already had an unpredictable, even cruel personality. In the cadet corps he mastered shooting and fencing, which made him an extremely dangerous opponent in duels. Upon finishing school Tolstoy went into service not in the navy, but in the elite Preobrazhensky regiment, perhaps owing to the assistance of influential relatives.\n\nHis comrades at that time, among others, the future literary critic Faddei Bulgarin, described Tolstoy as an excellent shooter and a brave fighter. According to their memoirs, he had an energetic and passionate personality, but while fighting he was cool and resolute. His \"wild\" character, along with his taste for women and card games, gave him frequent cause for arguments with his comrades and higher officers that often ended in a violation of discipline. Moreover, Tolstoy was very rancorous and vengeful towards those who happened to anger him.\n\nAmong the nobility of early nineteenth-century Russia, excessive bravery and a deliberate search for dangerous adventures was widespread and highly valued, not only on the front, but also in daily life. As a result, duels remained very popular during this period and often arose out of the smallest arguments. This societal influence, as well as the individual traits of Tolstoy's character, explains his enthusiasm for duels. In 1799, at the age of 17, he fought his first duel with an officer who had reprimanded him for a violation of discipline. The details of this duel are unknown. There are also no reliable witnesses as to Tolstoy's punishment; several memoirs allege that he was demoted to the rank of a soldier, but other sources contradict this information.\n\nIn 1803 Tolstoy went on a circumnavigation of the world as a member of the sloop \"Nadezhda\" (\"Hope\"), captained by Adam Johann von Krusenstern. This was the first circumnavigation of the world made by a ship under a Russian flag. How Tolstoy, who did not serve in the navy, came to be aboard the ship is unknown. Marya Kamenskaya, the daughter of his cousin, the subsequently famous artist Fyodor Petrovich Tolstoy, writes in her memoirs that Tolstoy in this way cleverly avoided punishment in the Preobrazhensky regiment. According to Kamenskaya, he posed as his cousin and namesake, who was on the crew of the ship but who did not wish to sail because he suffered from seasickness.\nThe ship \"Nadezhda\", as well as the accompanying sloop \"Neva\" under the command of Yuri Lisyansky, set sail in August 1803 from Kronstadt. In addition to its exploratory goals, the expedition was also meant to help establish diplomatic and economic relations between Russia and Japan, for which the party included a large diplomatic delegation headed by Nikolai Rezanov. \"Nadezhda\" took a route across the Baltic Sea and the Atlantic Ocean, past the Canary Islands and Brazil, after which the ship rounded Cape Horn and set across the Pacific Ocean towards Japan, making stops at the Marquesas and the Sandwich (Hawaiian) Islands, and also at Kamchatka. After visiting Japan, \"Nadezhda\" and \"Neva\" set off towards Sitka, Alaska, sailed past China and Macao on the Indian Ocean, then rounded Africa and came back across the Baltic Sea to Kronstadt. The voyage lasted a total of more than three years, from August 7, 1803, to August 19, 1806.\n\nTolstoy's behavior on board, where he was unencumbered by official duties, was very unpredictable. He often provoked quarrels with other members of the team, including the captain himself. In addition, Tolstoy permitted himself some japes when addressing members of the crew that he did not like: for example, once he intoxicated the priest accompanying the \"Neva\", and when the latter lay dead drunk on the floor, Tolstoy stuck his beard to the deck boards with sealing wax. When the priest came to, he was obliged to cut off his beard to free himself. On another occasion, when Krusenstern was gone from his cabin, Tolstoy sneaked into his cabin with a ship's pet, an orangutan that Tolstoy had bought while the ship was moored on an island in the Pacific Ocean. He took Krusenstern's logbook, put a blank sheet of paper on top and began to show the ape how to cover the paper with ink. Then he left the orangutan alone in the cabin, who went on drawing on the notebook. When Krusenstern returned, all his records had already been destroyed.\n\nSimilar behavior more than once caused Tolstoy to be put under arrest. Finally, Krusenstern lost patience and abandoned the passenger during a stop at Kamchatka. Further details of Tolstoy's travels are known only through his own not always credible accounts. From Kamchatka Tolstoy managed to get to one of the Aleutian islands or to Sitka island, where he spent several months among Alaskan natives of the Tlingit tribe. It is possible that he got from Kamchatka to Sitka on the ship \"Neva\", after he was dropped off by the \"Nadezhda\". During his sojourn on Sitka (or according to other sources, during the earlier stop of the \"Nadezhda\" stop in the Marquesas), he acquired multiple tattoos, which he later displayed with pride to curious acquaintances. The afore-mentioned orangutan, which was left on land with Tolstoy and whose later fate is unknown, gave rise to a great deal of gossip in aristocratic circles. According to one of the rumors, during his stay in Kamchatka, Tolstoy lived together with the ape; according to others, he ate it.\n\nAt any rate, Tolstoy's return to European Russia via the Far East, Siberia, the Urals and the Volga Region, was probably full of adventures, the details of which only Tolstoy knew. According to his accounts, a merchant ship picked him up in Alask and dropped him off at Petropavlosk, from where Tolstoy wound his way overland to Petersburg on carts, on sleighs, and partly on foot. One of the few written testimonies of this odyssey is found in the \"Notes\" of the writer Philip Vigel, which only resurfaced in 1892. Vigel, who traveled around Russia at the beginning of the nineteenth century to study Russian daily life, met Tolstoy in Udmurtia and described this episode in the following way: \"At one of the stations we were surprised to see an officer approach us in a uniform of the Preobrazhensky Corps. This was Count F. I. Tolstoy . . . . He was traveling around the world with Krusenstern and Rezanov, quarreled with all, drove all to quarrel, and as a dangerous person was put ashore at Kamchatka and made his way across land back to Petersburg. What hasn't been said about him . . . .\"\n\nTolstoy's voyage concluded with his arrival in Petersburg at the beginning of August 1805. Thanks to his adventures, which gave rise to much gossip in high society, the count acquired an almost legendary celebrity, as well as the lifelong nickname \"the American\", referring his stay in Russian America.\n\nImmediately upon Tolstoy's arrival in Petersburg, he was greeted with new problems: he was arrested at the city gates and sent to the guardhouse. Moreover, a special ukase from Alexander I forbad him from entering the capital.\n\nTolstoy's scandalous past also disrupted his military career. He was demoted from the elite Preobrazhensky regiment to a post in the little-known Neishlott fortress, where he served from 1805 to 1808. Philippe Vigel wrote regarding this onerous period for Tolstoy: \"the punishment was severe for the brave man, who had never seen battle, especially during a time when all Europe, from west to east, had broken out in war.\"\n\nOnly Tolstoy's friendship with the commander Mikhail Dolgorukov helped the count in the end to get a post as an aide-de-camp on the front during the recently begun Finnish War. There Tolstoy was in his element: he actively participated in the battles, including the battle of Idensalmi, in which Dolgorukov died. A while after, Tolstoy, risking his life, headed a reconnaissance detachment during an operation of the shores of the Gulf of Bothnia, thanks to which the corps under the command of General Michael Barclay de Tolly managed to cross the ice of the gulf and occupy the city of Umeå without casualties. These feats, which facilitated Russia's rapid victory, rehabilitated Tolstoy in the eyes of the command, and from 31 October 1808 he was allowed to serve in the Preobrazhensky Regiment as a lieutenant.\n\nA few months later, however, Tolstoy fought two more duels. In the first of these he mortally wounded his comrade and captain, whom he himself had provoked by spreading sordid rumors about his sister. A few days later there followed a duel with the young ensign Naryshkin, who had asserted that Tolstoy had cheated him in a card game; Naryshkin challenged Tolstoy to a duel and was also killed. After this, Tolstoy was for several months confined to a guardhouse in the Vyborg fortress, and on 2 October 1811 he was dismissed from the army.\n\nLess than a year afterwards, Tolstoy returned to the war, this time as a volunteer in the defense of Moscow during the French invasion of Russia. During the Battle of Borodino, he was severely wounded in the knee. On the recommendation of General Nikolai Rayevsky, who in a letter to Field Marshal Mikhail Kutuzov mentioned Tolstoy's bravery, Tolstoy received the Cross of St. George, fourth rank. Moreover, Tolstoy was once again rehabilitated and received the rank of colonel. At the end of the war he finally left the army and settled down in Moscow.\n\nFrom 1812 until his death Tolstoy lived most of his life in Moscow, in a house on Sivtsev Vrazhek lane. His notorious, almost heroic past earned him fame in the Moscow aristocratic circles, and Tolstoy took advantage of his celebrity. He regularly took part in noble gatherings and balls, and he himself organized several festive soirées and had a reputation as a refined gastronome. Owing to the erudition that he had gained in military school, he easily conversed with representatives of the creative intelligentsia, and became friends with many of them. Among his friends were the writers Evgeny Baratynsky, Vasily Zhukovsky, Aleksandr Griboyedov, Konstantin Batyushkov, Pyotr Vyazemsky, Denis Davydov, Nikolai Gogol, and Aleksandr Pushkin.\n\nTolstoy loved gambling and became particularly famous for this during his years in Moscow. He did not hide the fact that he sometimes cheated. According to the memoirs of his contemporaries, Tolstoy did not like to rely on luck during a game, preferring, by way of cardsharping, to \"play for certain\", since \"only fools rely on luck\", as he himself liked to say. A. N. Vulf recounts that once when Pushkin met Tolstoy playing cards, he remarked upon his cheating, to which Tolstoy replied, \"Yes, I know that myself, but I do not like to be reminded of it.\" Partly owing to his cheating, Tolstoy often won large sums of money, which he in general spent rapidly and capriciously on society life. At other times Tolstoy became the victim of other cardsharps and suffered great losses.\n\nEven more famous was Tolstoy's participation in a number of duels, the reasons for which were often found in card games. It is unknown how many duels Tolstoy fought in his life, but some accounts state that he killed eleven men altogether in duels. For Tolstoy, duels were evidently not only a way of vindicating his honor—as was accepted in officers' circles in Russia—but also an ordinary pastime. Once Tolstoy had to serve as a second in the duel of one of his closest friends. Fearing for the life of his friend, Tolstoy decided to intervene to prevent the worst: before the duel was held, he himself challenged his friend's opponent and killed him. Leo Tolstoy, the first cousin once removed of Fyodor, whom he knew from his early childhood, used to recount this event.\n\nIn his early years in Moscow, Tolstoy's love affairs provided copious material for rumor and gossip in society. He married the gypsy dancer Avdotya Tugayeva on January 10, 1821, but only after having lived with her for several years. Marya Kamenskaya's memoirs explain the reason for this marriage:\n\nThis marriage lasted until Tolstoy's death. Tugayeva gave birth to twelve children, however, only one reached the age of maturity: their daughter Praskovya Fyodorovna, who lived till 1887. Tolstoy and Tugayeva's eldest daughter, Sarra, possessed of a poetic gift, but very unhealthy both physically and mentally, died at the age of 17 of consumption. All the other children were born dead or died in infancy.\n\nOne of the best-known aspects of Count Tolstoy's life in Moscow was his not always friendly relationship with the poet Aleksandr Pushkin. Pushkin and Tolstoy met for the first time in the spring of 1819.\n\nA notorious quarrel between them began in 1820 after Pushkin fell into disgrace because of his poems and was exiled to Ekaterinoslav, then to the Caucasus, Crimea and Bessarabia. During this time Tolstoy spread a rumor in Moscow, intentionally or unintentionally, that Pushkin was flogged by the police before his departure into exile. Hearing about this false rumor, the temperamental and sensitive Pushkin was so offended that he swore to challenge Tolstoy to a duel upon his return from exile. Moreover, the poet answered Tolstoy with the epigram \"В жизни мрачной и презренной…\" (\"In a gloomy and despicable life...\") and harsh verses in a message \"To Chaadayev\": \"Or a philosopher, who in his early years / Amazed the world with his depravity, / But, becoming enlightened, made amends for his disgrace: / He quit drinking wine and became a cardsharp?\" It is curious that when, during the publication of the poem, the words \"or a philosopher\" (или философа) were changed to \"a fool-philosopher\" (глупца-философа), Pushkin strongly objected: \"'A fool-philosopher' is printed; why a fool? The poem refers to the American Tolstoy, who is not a fool at all\".\n\nWhile in exile, Pushkin assiduously prepared himself for the duel, practicing his shooting on a regular basis. On September 8, 1826, almost immediately after returning to Moscow, he sent Tolstoy his challenge. The duel was prevented then only by Tolstoy's accidental absence from Moscow.\n\nA while later the known bibliographer and friend of Pushkin Sergei Sobolevsky managed to reconcile Pushkin with Tolstoy. Tolstoy was possibly also interested in reconciliation, as he knew that killing Pushkin would probably cut off his relations with many famous poets whose friendship he valued. In subsequent years Tolstoy and Pushkin even became friends. Thus in 1829, Pushkin entrusted Tolstoy with the delivery of a letter to Tolstoy's acquaintance and Pushkin's future mother-in-law, Natalya Nikolayevna Goncharova, in which he declared himself a suitor for the hand of her 17-year-old daughter Natalya. Although the elder Goncharova could not give Pushkin a definite answer, Pushkin eventually succeeded in his suit, and in 1831, he and Natalya were married.\n\nTolstoy suffered greatly from the death of his children, especially when his eldest daughter, Sarra, died at the age of seventeen. Some of Tolstoy's friends recounted later that by the end of his life grew devout and considered the death of his eleven children to be God's punishment for his killing of eleven men in duels.\n\nDuring this time, Tolstoy no longer fought duels and played cards only seldom. Instead, he prayed more and more, attempting to atone for the sins of his youth. Sometimes he went abroad to take the waters, spending time in various European countries.\n\nOne of Tolstoy's best-known acquaintances during these years was Aleksandr Herzen, who reminisced about Tolstoy a decade later in his book, \"My Past and Thoughts\" (Былое и думы):\n\nTolstoy died on November 5, 1846, after a short illness, in his Moscow home in the presence of his wife and only surviving daughter Praskovya. According to the recollections of his close friends, before his death he summoned a priest and confessed to him for several hours. Tolstoy was buried in the Vagankavo Cemetery. His widow Avdotya outlived him by fifteen years and died a violent death: she was stabbed by her own cook in 1861. The Tolstoy's house on Sivtsev Vrazhek near the old Arbat was not preserved: it was destroyed in the 1950s to make way for the \"Kremlin\" clinic.\n\nOwing to his notorious past and to his close acquaintance with many authors, Tolstoy became the prototype for some of the characters in their books, the most famous of whom was Aleksandr Pushkin. In his novel in verse \"Eugene Onegin\" (1823–1831) Tolstoy appears as the duellist Zaretsky, Lensky's second in his duel with the main character, Onegin. Pushkin depicts Zaretsky/Tolstoy in the following way:\n<poem>\n</poem>\n\nThese lines show that Pushkin had made peace with Tolstoy: Pushkin refers to him as an \"honorable man\", who has transformed from an \"arch-rake\" into a \"paterfamilias\", with, however, the label \"unwed\"—an allusion to his long-lasting ménage with the gypsy Tugayeva. Further on in the story, Pushkin displays his friendship with Tolstoy:\n\n<poem>\n</poem>\n\nYuri Lotman agrees that fundamentally Zaretsky was based on Tolstoy, but concludes that Pushkin subjected this real prototype to a significant reworking. In particular, unlike Zaretsky, who fell off his \"Kalmyk horse\" and was captured, Tolstoy was an infantry officer, who was never in captivity.\n\nThe other famous poet who used Tolstoy as a model was Alexander Griboyedov. In his comedy \"Woe from Wit\" the character Repetilov refers to Tolstoy in a monologue, calling him a \"nighttime robber and duellist\" with \"unclean hands\", who was \"exiled to Kamchatka and came back as an Aleutian\". Tolstoy himself wrote corrections into one of the manuscripts. He modified the phrase \"he was exiled to Kamchatka\" to \"the devil took him to Kamchatka\", noting that he was never exiled, and limited the line about \"unclean hands\" to include \"at cards\", remarking that \"for a true likeness these corrections are necessary, so that people will not think, that [this character] steals snuffboxes from tables\". Tolstoy also accused Griboyedov of implying that he was a bribetaker. When Griboyedov objected, saying \"but you do play unfairly, after all\", Tolstoy responded, \"Only that? Well you should have written it that way.\"\n\nTolstoy loved to dwell on this line, bringing it up on many occasions. At one of the first performances of \"Woe from Wit\", Tolstoy, who was seated in the audience, stood up after Repetilov's speech and shouted, \"I never took bribes, because I never served [in the government]!\", a quip that was greeted with applause.\n\nTolstoy was also most likely used as a model for the cruel and bloodthirsty duellist Dolokhov, who fights Pierre Bezukhov in War and Peace.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "58940037", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58940037", "title": "Groac'h", "text": "Groac'h\n\nA (Breton for \"fairy\", \"witch\" or \"crone\", pl. ') is a kind of Breton water-fairy. Seen in various forms, often by night, many are old, similar to ogres and witches, sometimes with walrus teeth. Supposed to live in caverns, under the beach and under the sea, the ' has power over the forces of nature and can change its shape. It is mainly known as a malevolent figure, largely because of Émile Souvestre's story \"La Groac'h de l'île du Lok\", in which the fairy seduces men, changes them into fish and serves them as meals to her guests, on one of the Glénan Islands. Other tales present them as old solitary fairies who can overwhelm with gifts the humans who visit them.\n\nSeveral place-names of Lower Brittany are connected with the ', especially the names of some megaliths in Côtes-d'Armor, as well as the island of Groix in Morbihan and the lighthouse of La Vieille. The origin of those fairies that belong to the archetype of \"the crone\" is to be found in the ancient female divinities demonized by Christianity. The influence of Breton writers in the 19th century brought them closer to the classical fairy figure. The ' has several times appeared in recent literary works, such as Nicolas Bréhal's \"La Pâleur et le Sang\" (1983).\n\nAccording to Philippe Le Stum, originally ' seems to have been the Breton word for fairies in general. It evolved to mean an old creature of deceptive beauty. It is often spelled \"'\", the final consonant being pronounced like the German \"ch\". One of the possible plurals is '. According to Joseph Rio the assimilation of the ' with the fairy is more the result of the influence of Émile Souvestre's tale, and commentaries on it, than a belief deriving from the popular traditions of Lower Brittany: \"The Groac'h of Lok Island\", a story intended for literate audiences, uses a writing technique based on the interchangeable use of the words \"fairy\" and \"'\". Anatole Le Braz comments on this name that \"' is used in good and bad senses by turns. It can mean an old witch or simply an old woman.\"\n\nThe ' are the fairies most often encountered in Brittany, generally in forests and near springs: they are essentially the fairies of Breton wells. Likewise, a certain number of \"sea fairies\" bear the name of ', sometimes interchangeably with those of \"morgen\" or \"siren\". speaks (1825) of a malicious creature that he was frightened of as a child, reputed to inhabit wells in which it drowned those children that fell in. It is possible that Souvestre drew the evil characteristics of \"his\" \"\" from Mahé, and indeed he admits in his notes a certain reinvention of tradition.\n\nBecause of their multiform character, the ' are hard to define. One of them is said to frequent the neighborhood of Kerodi, but the descriptions vary: an old woman bent and leaning on a crutch, or a richly dressed princess, accompanied by korrigans. Often the descriptions insist on its likeness to an old woman; Françoise Morvan mentions the name \"beetle-fairy\". She notes cases where the ' have exceptionally long \"walrus\" teeth, which may be the length of a finger or may even drag along the ground, though in other cases they have no such teeth, or at any rate nothing is said of them. Sometimes they are hunchbacked. The storyteller Pierre Dubois describes them as shapeshifters capable of taking on the most flattering or the most repugnant appearance: swans or wrinkled, peering hobgoblins. He attributes green teeth to them, or more rarely red, as well as \"a coat of scales\". For Morvan, the variety of these descriptions is a result of two phenomena. On the one hand, it is possible that these fairies change their appearance as they age, to become like warty frogs. On the other hand, a Russian tradition reported by Andrei Sinyavsky has the fairies go through cycles of rejuvenation and ageing according to the cycles of the moon: a similar tradition may have existed in Brittany.\n\nPierre Dubois compares the ' to an ogress or a \"water-witch\".. relates it rather to undines, Richard Ely and Amélie Tsaag Valren to witches, Édouard Brasey describes it as a \"lake fairy\". Be that as it may, the ' is one of the most powerful fairies in Breton waters. In its aquatic habitat, as on land, it has power over the elements. The ' of Lanascol Castle could shake the dead autumn leaves and turn them to gold, or bend the trees and make the ponds ripple as it passed. Although it is mostly known by negative representations, the ' is not necessarily bad. It may politely receive humans in its lair and offer treasure, magical objects (most often in threes), and cures. Like many other fairies, it also takes care of laundry and spinning. They are overbearing, but generally full of good intentions. Most often, the ' are described as being solitary in their retreats under the sea, in a rock or in the sands, but some stories tell of an entirely female family life. They do not abandon their children or leave changelings. Sometimes they are accompanied by a green water horse and a pikeman. They are more inconstant and more sensitive than other Breton fairies, taking offence easily. In Finistère, ' reveal to miners the existence of silver-bearing lead.\n\nSeveral collections report a ' in one or another place in Brittany. Souvestre evokes one of these fairies, likened to a naiad, in a well in Vannes: this legend seems to have been quite popular in its day, and could have the same sources as the tale of the fairy of the well. It belongs to the theme of \"spinners by the fountain\" in the Aarne-Thompson classification. A story collected by Anatole Le Braz makes one of these fairies the personification of the plague: an old man from Plestin finds a ' who asks for his help in crossing a river. He carries it, but it becomes more and more heavy, so that he sets it back down it where he found it, thereby preventing an epidemic of plague in the Lannion district. François-Marie Luzel also brings together several traditions around the ', that people would shun them as they would Ankou. Some are known to have the power of changing into foals, or again to haunt the forest of \"Coat-ann-noz\" (the wood of the night). The duke's pond in Vannes would house a ', a former princess who threw herself into the water to flee a too importunate lover, and who would sometimes be seen combing her long blonde hair with a golden comb.\n\nThe most famous story evoking a \"\" is \"La Groac'h de l'Île du Lok\", collected, written and arranged by Émile Souvestre for his book \"Le Foyer breton\" (1844). Houarn Pogamm and Bellah Postik, orphan cousins, grow up together in Lannilis and fall in love, but they are poor, so Houarn leaves to seek his fortune. Bellah gives him a little bell and a knife, but keeps a third magic object for herself, a wand. Houarn arrives at Pont-Aven and hears about the \"groac'h\" of , a fairy who inhabits a lake on the largest of the Glénan Islands, reputed to be as rich as all the kings on earth put together. Houarn goes to the island of Lok and gets into an enchanted boat in the shape of a swan, which takes him underwater to the home of the \"groac'h\". This beautiful woman asks him what he wants, and Houarn replies that he is looking for the wherewithal to buy a little cow and a lean hog. The fairy offers him some enchanted wine to drink and asks him to marry her. He accepts, but when he sees the \"groac'h\" catch and fry fish which moan in the pan he begins to be afraid and regrets his decision. The \"groac'h\" gives him the dish of fried fish and goes away to look for wine.\n\nHouarn draws his knife, whose blade dispels enchantments. All the fish stand up and become little men. They are victims of the \"groac'h\", who agreed to marry her before being metamorphosed and served as dinner to the other suitors. Houarn tries to escape but the \"groac'h\" comes back and throws at him the steel net she wears on her belt, which turns him into a frog. The bell that he carries on his neck rings, and Bellah hears it at Lannilis. She takes hold of her magic wand, which turns itself into a fast pony, then into a bird to cross the sea. At the top of a rock, Bellah finds a little black \"korandon\", the \"groac'h\"'s husband, and he tells her of the fairy's vulnerable point. The \"korandon\" offers Bellah men's clothes to disguise herself in. She goes to the \"groac'h\", who is very happy to receive such a beautiful boy and yields to the request of Bellah, who would like to catch her fish with the steel net. Bellah throws the net on the fairy, cursing her thus: \"Become in body what you are in heart!\". The \"groac'h\" changes into a hideous creature, the queen of mushrooms, and is thrown into a well. The metamorphosed men and the \"korandon\" are saved, and Bellah and Houarn take the treasures of the fairy, marry and live happily ever after.\n\nFor the scholar Joseph Rio this tale is important documentary evidence on the character of the \"groac'h\". Souvestre explained why he chose to place it on the island of Lok by the multiplicity of versions of the storytellers which do so. \"La Groac'h de l'île du Lok\" was even more of a success in Germany than it had been in Brittany. Heinrich Bode published it under the title of \"Die Wasserhexe\" in 1847, and it was republished in 1989 and 1993. The story was likewise translated into English (\"The Groac'h of the Isle\") and published in \"The Lilac Fairy Book\" in 1910. Between 1880 and 1920 it served as study material for British students learning French.\n\nThis tale, collected by Joseph Frison around 1914, tells of a young girl who goes one night to a spring to help her mother. She discovers that a ' lives there. The fairy tells her never to come back by night, otherwise she will never see her mother again. The mother falls ill, and the girl returns to draw some water in the night in spite of the prohibition. The ' catches the girl and keeps her in its cave, which has every possible comfort. Although she is separated from her family the girl is happy there. A young ' comes to guard her while the ' of the spring is away visiting one of its sisters. She dies while with her sister, having first sent a message to the young ': the girl is free to leave if she wishes. Knowing that the home of the ' is much more comfortable than her own, the girl asks for a key so that she can enter or leave at her own convenience. The young ' has her wait for one month, while the elder sister dies. She then gives her two keys, with instructions never to stay outside after sunset. The little girl meets one of her family while out walking, but resolves to return early to keep her promise. Later she meets a very handsome young man, whom she leaves, promising to come back the next day. The ' advises her to marry him, assuring her that this will lift the prohibition on her returning after sunset. She follows this advice and lives happily ever after with her new husband.\n\nAccording to this recent story (collected by Théophile Le Graët in 1975), a widower with a daughter marries a black-skinned woman who has a daughter, also black. The new bride treats her stepdaughter very badly, and demands she spin all day long. One day, when near a well, the girl encounters an old walrus-toothed fairy who offers her new clothes, heals her fingers, goes to her place and offers to share its house with her. She eagerly moves in and is very happy there. When eventually she announces that she wants to leave, the fairy gives her a magic stone. She goes back to her stepmother's home where, with her new clothes, no-one recognizes her. With the fairy stone she can get everything she wants. The black girl becomes jealous and throws herself down the well in the hope of getting the same gifts, but the fairy only gives her a thistle. The black girl wishes for the greatest prince in the world to appear so that he can ask for her hand in marriage, but it is the Devil who appears and carries her away. In the end the good girl returns to her home in the well, and sometimes she can be heard singing.\n\nThis tale takes place on the island of Groagez (the \"island of women\" or the \"fairy island\"), which Paul Sébillot describes as being the home of an old woman who is a spinner and a witch; it is in Trégor, one kilometer from Port-Blanc. \n\nAccording to this tale, collected by G. Le Calvez at the end of the 19th century, a ', \"sea fairy\", lives in a hollow rock on the island. A woman happens to pass by, and comes across the old fairy spinning with her distaff. The ' invites the woman to approach it and gives her its distaff, instructing her that it will bring her her fortune, but that she must tell no-one about it. The woman goes home and quickly becomes rich thanks to the distaff, the thread of which never runs out and is much finer in quality than all others. But the temptation to speak about it becomes too great for her. The moment she reveals that the distaff comes from a fairy all the money she has earned from it disappears.\n\nThis story was collected by Anatole Le Braz, who makes reference to the belief in fairies among people of his acquaintance living near his friend Walter Evans-Wentz. A ruined manor house called Lanascol Castle is said to have housed a fairy known as '. One day, the landowners put up for sale a part of the estate where they no longer live. A notary from Plouaret conducts the auction, during which prices go up very high. Suddenly, a gentle yet imperious female voice makes a bid raising the price by a thousand francs. All the attendants look to see who spoke, but there is no woman in the room. The notary then asks loudly who bid, and the female voice answers '. Everyone flees. Since then, according to Le Braz, the estate has never found a buyer.\n\nMany place-names in Lower Brittany are attributed to a '. The Grand Menhir, called ', at Locmariaquer probably owes its name to an amalgamation of the Breton word for \"cave\", ', with the word '. Pierre Saintyves cites from the same commune a \"table of the old woman\", a dolmen called \"\". At Maël-Pestivien three stones two meters high placed next to each other in the village of Kermorvan, are known by the name of \"Ty-ar-Groac'h\", or \"the house of the fairy\".\n\nIn 1868, an eight-meter menhir called ' was destroyed in Plourac'h. In Cavan, the tomb of the \"groac'h Ahès\", or \"'\", has become attributed not to the ' but to the giant . There is a Tombeau de la Groac'h Rouge (Tomb of the Red ') in Prat, attributed to a \"red fairy\" that brought the stones in her apron. This megalith is however almost destroyed. According to Souvestre and the Celtomaniac (1853), the island of Groix got its name (in Breton) from the ', described by them as \"druidesses\" now seen as old women or witches. For the writer Claire de Marnier this tradition, which makes the islanders sons of witches, is a \"remarkable belief\" peculiar to \"the Breton soul\".\n\nThe rock of Croac'h Coz, or \"the island of the old fairy\", in the commune of Plougrescant, was the home of an old ' who would engage in spinning from time to time. Sébillot relates that the fishermen of Loguivy (in Ploubazlanec) once feared to pass near the cave named Toul ar Groac'h, \"fairy hole\", and preferred to spend the night under their beached boats until the next tide, rather than risk angering the fairy. Similarly, Anatole Le Braz cites Barr-ann-Heol near Penvénan, as a dangerous place where a ' keeps watch, ready to seize benighted travellers at a crossroads.. In Ushant many place-names refer to it, including the Pointe de la Groac'h and the lighthouse of La Vieille, in reference, according to Georges Guénin, to \"a kind of witch\".\n\nSome traces of possible religious invocation of these fairies are known. says that the sick once came to rub the pre-Christian statue called Groac'h er goard (or Groac'h ar Goard ) so as to be healed. The seven-foot-tall granite statue known as the Venus of Quinipily represents a naked woman of \"indecent form\" and could be a remnant of the worship of Venus or Isis.\n\nAccording to Marc Gontard, the ' demonstrates the demonization of ancient goddesses under the influence of Christianity: it was changed to a witch just as other divinities became lost girls and mermaids. Its palace under the waves is a typical motif of fairy tales and folk-stories, which is also found in, for example, the texts of the Arthurian legend, Irish folklore and several Hispanic tales. Pierre Dubois likens the ' to many maleficent water-fairies, like Peg Powler, Jenny Greenteeth, the \"\" and the green ogresses of Cosges, who drag people underwater to devour them. Joseph Rio included it in a global evolution of Breton fairies between 1820 and 1850, so that from small, dark-skinned, wrinkled creatures close to the korrigans, in the texts of the scholars of the time they more and more often become pretty women of normal size, probably to compete with the Germanic fairies.\n\nThe ' has been likened to the enigmatic and archetypal character of \"the Crone\", studied by various folklorists. This name, in French ', is often applied to megaliths. Edain McCoy equates the ' with ', citing especially the regular translation of the word as \"witch\". She adds that several Breton tales present this creature in a negative way, while none draw a flattering portrait.\n\nA ' appears in the novel \"La Pâleur et le Sang\" published by Nicolas Bréhal in 1983. This horrible witch, feared by the fishermen, lays a curse on the Bowley family. A \"mystical and fantastic\" novel, \"La Pâleur et le Sang\" includes the ' among the mysterious and almost diabolical forces that assail the island of Vindilis. This old woman is portrayed as having \"magical and evil powers\", and as threatening with reprisals those characters who offend her. Her murder is one of the causes of the misfortunes that hit the island. A ' also appears in \"Absinthes & Démons\", a collection of short stories by Amber Dubois published in 2012. In Jean Teulé's novel \"Fleur de tonnerre\" (2013), ' is a nickname given to Hélène Jégado when she is a little girl, in Plouhinec.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "19180398", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19180398", "title": "Huanjing (satellite)", "text": "Huanjing (satellite)\n\nChina plans to launch eleven Huanjing () satellites for disaster and environmental monitoring (\"huanjing\" is Chinese for \"environment\"). The satellites will be capable of visible, infrared, multi-spectral and synthetic aperture radar imaging.\n\nThe first two satellites, Huanjing-1A and Huanjing-1B, were launched on September 6, 2008 on a CZ-2C (i.e. Chang Zheng-2C / Long March-2C) rocket from the Taiyuan Satellite Launch Center. In a report dated 2008-09-03, the Associated Press of Pakistan indicated the launch would be conducted 2008-09-05 using a Long March 2C carrier rocket. On 2008-09-05, Aviation Week reported the first launch would be of optical imaging satellites.\n\nHuanjing-1C was launched on November 16, 2012 on a CZ-2C (i.e. Chang Zheng-2C / Long March-2C) rocket from the Taiyuan Satellite Launch Center. It is the first civilian Chinese remote sensing satellite to use a Synthetic Aperture Radar as imaging instrument. This S-band SAR was manufactured in Russia by NPO Mashinostroenia.\n"}
{"id": "4777389", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4777389", "title": "Hydric soil", "text": "Hydric soil\n\nHydric soil is soil which is permanently or seasonally saturated by water, resulting in anaerobic conditions, as found in wetlands.\n\nMost soils are . This is important because plant roots respire (that is, they consume oxygen and carbohydrates while releasing carbon dioxide) and there must be sufficient air—especially oxygen—in the soil to support most forms of soil life. Air normally moves through interconnected pores by forces such as changes in atmospheric pressure, the flushing action of rainwater, and by simple diffusion.\n\nIn addition to plant roots, most forms of soil microorganisms need oxygen to survive. This is true of the more well-known soil animals as well, such as ants, earthworms and moles. But soils can often become saturated with water due to rainfall and flooding. Gas diffusion in soil slows (some 10,000 times slower) when soil becomes saturated with water because there are no open passageways for air to travel. When oxygen levels become limited, intense competition arises between soil life forms for the remaining oxygen. When this anaerobic environment continues for long periods during the growing season, quite different biological and chemical reactions begin to dominate, compared with aerobic soils. In soils where saturation with water is prolonged and is repeated for many years, unique soil properties usually develop that can be recognized in the field. Soils with these unique properties are called hydric soils, and although they may occupy a relatively small portion of the landscape, they maintain important functions in the environment.\n\nThe plants found in hydric soils often have aerenchyma, internal spaces in stems and rhizomes, that allow atmospheric oxygen to be transported to the rooting zone. Hence, many wetlands are dominated by plants with aerenchyma; common examples include cattails, sedges and water-lilies.\n\nA hydric soil is defined by federal law to mean \"soil that, in its undrained condition, is saturated, flooded, or ponded long enough during a growing season to develop an anerobic condition that supports the growth and regeneration of hydrophytic vegetation\". This term is part of the legal definition of a wetland included in the United States Food Security Act of 1985 (P.L. 99-198). This definition is provided in the controlling regulations to the Wetland Conservation Provisions of the FSA of 1985(7 C.F.R 12) and is used by the U.S.D.A. Natural Resources Conservation Service in the administration of the Wetland Conservation Compliance provisions (\"Swampbuster\") contained in the FSA of 1985. In adopting this definition in 1985, Congress attempted to capture the duration of waterlogged condition of a hydric soil by adding that a hydric soil is waterlogged long enough to support not only the growth of plants adapted to life in anaerobic conditions but also the regeneration of such plants.\n\nAnother common definition of a hydric soils is provided by the National Technical Committee of Hydric Soils (NTCHS) as \"a soil that formed under conditions of saturation, flooding, or ponding long enough during the growing season to develop anaerobic conditions in the upper part.\" The NTCHS hydric soil definition is used by the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers and the Environmental Protection Agency in their joint responsibilities in the administration of Section 404 of the Clean Water Act (1972).\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "5102599", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5102599", "title": "Ian Fraser (naturalist)", "text": "Ian Fraser (naturalist)\n\nIan Fraser (born 1951) is an Australian naturalist, conservationist and author, based in Canberra, where he arrived from Adelaide in January 1980.\n\nFrom 1997 he presented a fortnightly natural history show on Canberra ABC Radio, until the station discontinued the program at the end of 2016. He teaches bird and other natural history courses to adult students at the ANU Centre for Continuing Education.\n\nHe ran the educational Environment Tours program - natural history bus-based tours throughout Australia - initially in association with the Canberra environment movement from 1984 until retiring at the end of 2016, and more recently has worked for Chris Carter of \"Time Travel Australia\" leading natural history tours to South America (with single tours to Malaysian Borneo and Madagascar).\n\nHe was awarded the Australian Plants Award by the Australian Native Plants Society in 2001, and the Australian Natural History Medallion in 2006. In 2011 his book \"A Bush Capital Year\", written with artist Peter Marsack, was awarded a Whitley Certificate for Best Regional Zoology by the Royal Zoological Society of NSW. In 2013 \"Australian Bird Names; a complete guide\", co-authored with Jeannie Gray, was also awarded a Whitley, this one as best book in the category Zoological Resource.\n\nFrom 2002 to 2013 he wrote a monthly essay on birds - 100 in all - for \"Gang-gang\", the Newsletter of the Canberra Ornithologists Group.\n\nHe served on the Australian Capital Territory (ACT) Natural Resources Management Advisory Committee (and its various predecessors), advising the ACT government on biodiversity issues from its inception in 1984, and chaired it from 2005 until his retirement at the end of 2014.\n\nSince 2012 he has been the author of a natural history blog, \"Ian Fraser Talking Naturally\", now weekly, formerly more frequently, on all aspects of natural history, aiming to bring biological science and conservation principles to a lay audience. \n\nIn 2016 he curated, by invitation, a three month exhibition at the Canberra Museum and Gallery entitled \"Bush Capital, the natural history of the ACT\". \n\nHe was awarded a Medal of the Order of Australia in 2018 \"for service to conservation and the environment.\"\n\nHe is partnered to journalist and ABC local radio presenter Louise Maher.\n\nBibliography\n\n"}
{"id": "4543587", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4543587", "title": "Incorporation of nature within a city", "text": "Incorporation of nature within a city\n\nOver the centuries the roles of rivers as part of the city has altered many times from the original use for the irrigating crops in nearby fields, as well as being an essential resource in establishing a permanent settlement. \nHowever, when the industrial revolution took place in the 19th century the role of the rivers in cities altered and it became a far more valuable resource as it allowed not only for the transportation of goods from town to town but also became the basis for the expansion and improvement of the trading prowess of the city. This transportation of goods was done through the construction of a canal network spreading across the country which tamed the rivers sufficiently and so therefore allowed for the movement of goods such as coal to move from place to place.\nFurthermore, after the advancement of the railway network which now took over most of the movement of goods throughout the country, this left the rivers and canals of Britain without a role in Britain’s transport network. This allowed areas of the canal and river networks to become polluted through chemical waste and public misuse, which caused difficulties for the animals for which the river and its surrounding wetlands and marshes were their natural habitats. \nYet since the 1950s there has been a dramatic increase in the number of riverside developments which have not only brought increased money into the area but have also redeveloped and enhanced the natural environment and increased the aesthetic qualities of these areas on the whole.\n\nFurther examples of these developments are Bede Island in Leicester and the London Docklands.\n\nBede Island is a 130,000 square metre site, 1.5 miles (2.4 km) outside Leicester’s Central Business District. It is an area of brownfield land located between the River Soar to the West and the Grand Union Canal to the East. It was a run down area which has suffered from inner city decline, the site is not easily accessible by road and so was not heavily industrialised. Most of the Bede Island area used to be occupied by scrap yards which led to both noise pollution and the release of asbestos into the air. The City Challenge schemes were established in 1993 to help regeneration of the social, economic and environmental aspects of 30 city schemes. The City Challenge partnership has greatly improved the natural environment through the cleaning up of the riversides and making them more attractive, as well as recontouring the banks of the River Soar and the diversifying of wildlife habitats through the planting of shrubs and trees.\n\nThe council attempted to incorporate nature into the city through public involvement schemes. These schemes aim to encourage and educate locals to help maintain existing green spaces, such as park life.\n\nThe Leicester City Council are yet again an example of an area which has successfully achieved this and have gained recognition for their efforts at the 2005 Green Flag awards. The strategies used in order to accomplish this include the following:\n\n\nThe London docklands was until the 1960s the largest port in the United Kingdom employing up to 50,000 people in its peak. However, due to being devastated by bombing during the Second World War and the introduction of containerisation of shipping in the 1970s for which the London docks were ill-adapted. This decline of London as a shipping port has led to the dereliction of the docklands area and also the loss of over 200,000 jobs. However, in 1981 the London Dockland Development Corporation was established to help with the redevelopment of the docklands area through the development of new high-class riverside apartments and the conversion of waterfront warehouses into accommodation and new office blocks such as Canary Wharf. Another aspect of the LDDC’s development plan was to increase the attractiveness of the area as a whole through the planting of trees and the implementing of communal spaces to help encourage people to interact with the natural environment.\n\nIn conclusion the role of rivers has altered and this is correct as they have changed from being used for agriculture to being a way to transport goods through the canal networks. However this role has now changed again to a more commercial one as a way of making new houses more appealing through including a riverside view. This shows that in urban areas rivers have always been an important and valuable resource.\n\nNature and the environment have been incorporated into city life through the use of community garden schemes. Community gardens are plots of land that have been allocated to be used as allotments. In general, institutional response to community gardening has been piecemeal, like a handing out of green band-aids. Public land is made available by municipal governments to both neighbourhood organizations and private agencies who lease it on a temporary basis, usually for one year. Extensive public pressure has compelled some city agencies to extend leases by a few years. \nCommunity gardening not only produces Healthy food close to home but also cultivates a sense of community among neighbours. Many surveys indicate that people participate in community gardening because they enjoy the opportunity to meet and make friends. Many community gardens incorporate sociability settings — arbours, picnic tables, benches, and barbecues. The growing sense of community fostered by these modern-day commons empowers neighbourhood residents and strengthens their social, physical, and mental health. A vacant lot transformed into a community garden filled with vegetable crops and blossoming flowers or the vibrant colours of a mural painted on the wall of a dilapidated building instantly, almost magically, transform the image of a rundown urban area. \nNew York City is home to a system of about 750 community gardens that have sprouted since the mid-1970s on vacant city-owned lots in low-to-moderate income neighbourhoods. After existing for more than 20 years, many community gardens have come to be seen by community development corporations as a key aspect of “community building.”... Despite this growing recognition of their importance, these gardens have a very tenuous hold on their land. Most have short-term license agreements with the Parks Department’s Green Thumb Program. An ACGA survey conducted in 1997 by Monroe and Santos revealed that fewer than 2% of community gardens are considered permanent by their managers.\nDue to this aspect of ‘Nature in the City’ being so effective, the government agencies involved have drawn up plans to further implement Community Gardens, i.e. to create more of them and help them to become permanent.\n\nTheir intended actions include:\n\n\nSingapore has over 42 parks and gardens in and around the city such as the Woodlands Park and Bukit Timah nature reserve. The Woodlands Park is designed in traditional Malay/Chinese themes. There is a river that runs through the park and under the council project; part of the river was enlarged to form a lake. There are a number of attractions including a playground and an amphitheatre. The Bukit Timah nature reserve is 12 km from city centre with an area of 1.64 square kilometres. It contains primary rainforest. There are more species of tree in this nature reserve than there are in the whole of North America. There are also other nature reserves, like the Sungei Buloh nature reserve which contains mangrove forests, swamps, ponds and prawn farms. The parks, gardens and nature reserves cover many aspects of nature and are all found in one city.\n\nSingapore has many environmental watchdogs (known as Peckhams) and committees that look after the environment within Singapore. The Nature Society Singapore is a conservation committee that promotes public awareness of conservation and conducts biodiversity surveys to provide data for the Nature society to help with plans and projects. Singapore also has a National Parks board tree management program that encourages a sense of ownership of trees in peoples care. Roadside trees are carefully selected for their suitability for the roadside. Durability and stability are key for this. Vegetation is pruned to make it look presentable. Tree inspections are carried out that log the health of trees in a database so there is a complete history of trees in Singapore that have had treatment and when. Singapore also has a green plan 2012. This was drawn up in 2002 and is a 10-year plan to create a sustainable environment for future generations. Awards are given to organisations and individuals that have made outstanding contributions towards environmental protection and care. Training is given to the large workforce that cares for the existing gardens and for those spearheading new projects.\n\n"}
{"id": "18306501", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18306501", "title": "Index of sustainability articles", "text": "Index of sustainability articles\n\nThis page is an index of sustainability articles.\n\nAdiabatic lapse rate -\nAir pollution control -\nAir pollution dispersion modeling -\nAlb-Leisa -\nAllotment (gardening) -\nAlternative energy -\nAmerican Green Chamber of Commerce -\nAnaerobic digestion -\nAnthropogenic -\nAnthroposystem -\nApplied Sustainability -\nAppropriate technology -\nAquaculture -\nAquatic ecosystem -\nAshden Awards\n\nBack-to-the-land movement -\nBagasse -\nBehavioral ecology -\nBiobutanol -\nBiodegradable plastics -\nBioenergy -\nBioenergy Village -\nBiofuel in Brazil -\nBiofuel in the United States -\nBiofuel -\nBiofuelwatch -\nBiogas -\nBiogas powerplant -\nBiogeochemistry -\nBlue bag\n\nCarbon accounting -\nCarbon Economy -\nCarbon footprint -\nCatchwater -\nCausal layered analysis -\nCenter for Environmental Technology -\nCentre on Sustainable Consumption and Production -\nCircles of Sustainability -\nClean technology -\nCleaner production -\nClimate change -\nCoal depletion -\nCommission on Sustainable Development -\nCompost -\nComposting -\nConfederation of European Environmental Engineering Societies -\nConservation biology -\nConservation Commons -\nConservation development -\nConservation ethic -\nConservation movement -\nConsumables -\nConvention on the Prohibition of Military or Any Other Hostile Use of Environmental Modification Techniques -\nCornucopian -\nCorporate social responsibility -\nCorporate sustainability -\nCradle to Cradle Design -\nCultural sustainability\n\nDeforestation -\nDemography -\nDepopulation -\nDesertification -\nDirective on the Promotion of the use of biofuels and other renewable fuels for transport -\nDiseases of poverty -\nDownsizer -\nDrawbridge mentality -\nDixon Golf\n\nEarth Charter -\nEarth observation satellite -\nEarthscan -\nEco hotels -\nEco-cities -\nEco-efficiency -\nEco-industrial park -\nEco-sufficiency -\nEcoforestry -\nEcolabel -\nEcological deficit -\nEcological economics -\nEcological footprint -\nEcological humanities -\nEcological literacy -\nEcological sanitation -\nEcological threshold -\nEcologically sustainable development -\nEcosharing -\nEcosystem -\nEcotax -\nEcotechnology -\nEcotourism -\nEcovillages -\nElectric vehicle -\nEmissions trading -\nEnergy conservation -\nEnergy content of biofuel -\nEnergy crop -\nEnergy density -\nEnergy descent -\nEnergy development -\nEnergy economics -\nEfficient energy use -\nEnergy Globe Award -\nEnergy Policy Act of 2005 -\nEnergy saving modules -\nEnergy security -\nEnvironmental accounting -\nEnvironmental and social studies -\nEnvironmental archaeology -\nEnvironmental audits -\nEnvironmental benefits of vegetarianism -\nEnvironmental biotechnology -\nEnvironmental Change Network -\nEnvironmental chemistry -\nEnvironmental concerns with electricity generation -\nEnvironmental consulting -\nEnvironmental control system -\nEnvironmental defense -\nEnvironmental design -\nEnvironmental design and planning -\nEnvironmental disaster -\nEnvironmental determinism -\nEnvironmental economics -\nEnvironmental effects of fishing -\nEnvironmental effects on physiology -\nEnvironmental engineering -\nEnvironmental enterprise -\nEnvironmental ethics -\nEnvironmental factor -\nEnvironmental finance -\nEnvironmental geography -\nEnvironmental geology -\nEnvironmental gradient -\nEnvironmental hazard -\nEnvironmental health -\nEnvironmental impact assessment -\nEnvironmental impact report -\nEnvironmental Information Regulations 2004 -\nEnvironmental journalism -\nEnvironmental justice -\nEnvironmental law -\nEnvironmental Law Service -\nEnvironmental Life Force -\nEnvironmental management -\nEnvironmental management scheme -\nEnvironmental Measurements Laboratory -\nEnvironmental medicine -\nEnvironmental microbiology -\nEnvironmental Modeling Center -\nEnvironmental movement -\nEnvironmental movement in New Zealand -\nEnvironmental movement in the United States -\nEnvironmental planning -\nEnvironmental preservation -\nEnvironmental pricing reform -\nEnvironmental protection in Japan -\nEnvironmental psychology -\nEnvironmental Quality Improvement Act -\nEnvironmental racism -\nEnvironmental racism in Europe - Environmental remediation -\nEnvironmental Research Letters -\nEnvironmental restoration -\nEnvironmental Risk Management Authority -\nEnvironmental science -\nEnvironmental security -\nEnvironmental skepticism -\nEnvironmental sociology -\nEnvironmental standard -\nEnvironmental studies -\nEnvironmental suit -\nEnvironmental Sustainability Index -\nEnvironmental technology -\nEnvironmental Technology Laboratory -\nEnvironmental Technology Verification Program -\nEnvironmental toxins and fetal development -\nEnvironmental transport association -\nEnvironmental vandalism -\nEnvironmental vegetarianism -\nEnvironmental, Safety and Health Communication -\nEnvironmentalism -\nEPA Sustainability -\nEpidemics -\nEthanol fuel -\nEthical consumerism -\nEugenics -\nEuropean Biofuels Technology Platform -\n\nFactory Green -\nFamine -\nFarmer field school -\nFive Capitals -\nFood Race -\nFood Routes Network -\nFood security -\nFood, Conservation, and Energy Act of 2008 -\nForeshoreway\n\nGasification -\nGlobal Environment Outlook -\nGlobal Reporting Initiative -\nGlobal warming -\nGlossary of climate change -\nGlossary of environmental science -\nGreen anarchy -\nGreen banking -\nGreen brands -\nGreen building -\nGreen cities -\nGreen cleaning -\nGreen computing -\nGreen conventions -\nGreen crude -\nGreen development -\nGreen Earth Market -\nGreen energy design -\nGreen gross domestic product -\nGreen museum -\nGreen Revolution -\nGreen syndicalism -\nGround-coupled heat exchanger\n\nHannover Principles -\nHeating oil -\nHolocene extinction event -\nHubbert Peak Theory -\nHuman development index -\nHuman development theory -\nHuman migration -\nHumanistic capitalism -\nHybrid vehicle -\nHydrogen technologies\n\nImmigration -\nImmigration reduction -\nImpact investing -\nImport substitution industries -\nInclusive business -\nIndustrial biotechnology -\nIndustrial ecology -\nIndustrial symbiosis -\nIndustrial wastewater treatment -\nInhabitat -\nInstitute for Sustainable Communication -\nIntegrated catchment management -\nIntegrated Multi-trophic Aquaculture -\nInternational Institute for Environment and Development -\nInternational Year of Forests\n\nJoint Forest Management -\n\nKyoto Protocol\n\nLangkawi Declaration -\nLife cycle assessment -\nLifeboat ethics -\nList of climate change topics -\nList of conservation topics -\nList of environmental degrees -\nList of environmental health hazards -\nList of environmental issues - \nList of environmental studies topics -\nList of global sustainability statistics -\nList of large wind farms -\nList of religious populations -\nList of renewable energy topics by country -\nList of sustainability programs in North America -\nList of vegetable oils -\nLocal food -\nLow impact development -\nLow-carbon economy\n\nMaldevelopment -\nMaterial efficiency -\nMaterial input per unit of service -\nMedieval demography -\nMegalopolis (city type) -\nMelbourne Principles -\nMetapattern -\nMitigation of peak oil -\nMultiple chemical sensitivity - \nMicro-Sustainability\n\nNational Venture Capital Association -\nNatural building -\nNatural resource management -\nNet metering -\nNew Classical Architecture -\nNew Urbanism -\n\nO2 Global Network -\nOceanway -\nOver-consumption -\nOverpopulation\n\nParticipatory technology development -\nPeak coal -\nPeak copper -\nPeak gas -\nPeak oil -\nPeak uranium -\nPermaculture -\nPermeable paving -\nPhotovoltaic array -\nPhotovoltaics in transport -\nPopulation ageing -\nPopulation biology -\nPopulation control -\nPopulation decline -\nPopulation density -\nPopulation ecology -\nPopulation growth -\nPopulation pyramid -\nPromession -\nPublic ecology\n\nRadical sustainability -\nRain garden -\nRainwater tank -\nReconciliation ecology -\nRecycling -\nReef Check -\nRenewable energy development -\nRenewable energy -\nRenewable resources -\nRio Declaration on Environment and Development -\nRisks to civilization, humans and planet Earth\n\nSeafood watch -\nSelf-sufficiency -\nSeven generation sustainability -\nSilicon valley -\nSimple living -\nSmithsonian Environmental Research Center -\nSoil conservation -\nSoil erosion -\nSoil health -\nSolar cell -\nSolar heating -\nSolar lamp -\nSolar power -\nSolar power satellite -\nSolar savings fraction -\nSpaceship earth -\nStraight vegetable oil -\nStrategic Environmental Assessment -\nStrategic Sustainable Development -\nSustainability -\nSustainability accounting -\nSustainability Appraisal -\nSustainability governance -\nSustainability organisations -\nSustainability reporting -\nSustainable advertising -\nSustainable agriculture -\nSustainable architecture -\nSustainable art -\nSustainable building -\nSustainable business -\nSustainable city -\nSustainable community -\nSustainable design -\nSustainable development -\nSustainable distribution -\nSustainable food system -\nSustainable energy -\nSustainable fashion -\nSustainable forest management -\nSustainable habitat -\nSustainable industries -\nSustainable landscape architecture -\nSustainable lighting -\nSustainable living -\nSustainable national income -\nSustainable packaging -\nSustainable procurement -\nSustainable product development -\nSustainable product development and design -\nSustainable regional development -\nSustainable resource extraction -\nSustainable sanitation -\nSustainable technology -\nSustainable tourism -\nSustainable transport -\nSustainable urban drainage systems -\nSustainable urban infrastructure -\n\nThe 2010 Imperative -\nThe good life -\nThe Human Farm (book) -\nThe Institution of Environmental Sciences -\nThe Natural Step -\nThe People & Planet Green League -\nThe Science of Survival -\nTragedy of the commons -\nTransition Towns -\n\nUnited Nations Environment Programme -\nUrban density -\nUrban horticulture -\nUrban oasis -\nUrban sprawl\n\nValue of Earth -\nVariable retention -\nVegetable oil economy\n\nWaste management -\nWaste vegetable oil -\nWaste water treatment -\nWater conservation -\nWater crisis -\nWater purification -\nWave farm -\nWeak and strong sustainability -\nWhite flight -\nWind power -\nWind power in the United Kingdom -\nWind turbine -\nWorld energy consumption -\nWorld largest cities\n\n"}
{"id": "1420409", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1420409", "title": "International Early Warning Programme", "text": "International Early Warning Programme\n\nThe International Early Warning Program (IEWP), was first proposed at the Second International Early Warning Conference (EWCII) in 2003 in Bonn, Germany. It developed increasing importance in the wake of the 2004 Indian Ocean tsunami, which claimed over 200,000 lives and injured over half a million people. \n\nIn January 2005, the United Nations (UN) launched extensive plans to create a global warning system to lessen the impact of deadly natural disasters at the World Conference on Disaster Reduction, held in Kobe, Japan. The UN programme would help improve prevention and resilience to all types of natural disasters, including droughts, wildfires, floods, typhoons, hurricanes, landslides, volcanoes and tsunamis, by using a comprehensive set of methods including rapid information sharing and training communities at risk. It is believed that the loss of human life would have been dramatically reduced, if a tsunami warning system, like the one that exists for the volcano-and-earthquake prone Pacific Rim, had been operational in the Indian Ocean. Technology, such as tremor and tidal gauges, fast data transfer and alarm mechanisms, used in combination with training in the danger zones, would have given hundreds of thousands of people time to move to the safety of higher ground. \n\nEarly warning systems are now widely recognized as worthwhile and necessary investments to help save lives. In 2004, millions of people in the Americas and Asia were evacuated when tropical storms struck, which saved thousands of lives. According to Michel Jarraud, Secretary-General of the World Meteorological Organisation, about 90% of all natural disasters were caused by hazards related to weather and water. Speaking at the conference, he said: \"It is WMO's aim to halve the number of deaths due to natural disasters of meteorological, hydrological and climatic origin over the next 15 years, more specifically to reduce by half the associated ten-year average fatality from the period 1995-2004 to the period 2010-2019 for these disasters.\"\n\nThere was unanimous support among participants to the January 2005 conference, as an initial step towards an International Early Warning Programme, for UN-led efforts to establish an Indian Ocean Tsunami Warning System.\n\n"}
{"id": "15467377", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15467377", "title": "Kern arc", "text": "Kern arc\n\nThe Kern arc is an extremely rare atmospheric optical phenomenon belonging to the family of ice crystal halos. It is a complete and faint circle around the zenith, in contrast to the related and much more common circumzenithal arc, which is only ever a partial circle.\n\nThe Kern arc is named after H.F.A. Kern in the Netherlands, who first reported it in 1895. Since then it has been reported on six occasions.\n\nIt is formed by rays entering the top faces of horizontal plate crystals and leaving through a near vertical side face. Kern arc rays undergo an internal reflection off a side face inclined at 60° to the exit face. Near \"triangular\" hexagonal crystals with three alternate side faces much shorter than the others allow the Kern arc to occur.\n\nThe first photographs of the Kern arc were taken by Marko Mikkilä close to Vuokatti Ski Resort, Sotkamo, Finland on 17 November 2007. The photographs were in natural sunlight taken from an artificial cloud of ice crystals created by snowguns. At the Vuokatti Ski Resort about 100 snowguns may operate at one time. The temperature was −15 to −18 °C in clear sky and almost no wind. Nikon D70 and Nikon FM cameras were used with Sigma 8mm EX F4,\nSigma 15mm EX F2.8 lenses. Some samples of ice crystals were also collected, confirming their nearly triangular base.\n\nMikkilä's photographs were first published in Tähdet ja avaruus-magazine 1/2008. The magazine is published by URSA, the Finnish association of astronomy.\n\n"}
{"id": "45289423", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45289423", "title": "Kidnapping of Kalaniʻōpuʻu by Captain James Cook", "text": "Kidnapping of Kalaniʻōpuʻu by Captain James Cook\n\nCaptain James Cook's 1779 attempted kidnapping of Kalaniʻōpuʻu, the ruling chief of the island of Hawaii and the decision to hold him in exchange for a stolen long boat (lifeboat) was the fatal error of Cook's final voyage, ultimately leading to Cook's death.\n\nCook's arrival in Hawaii was followed by mass migrations of Europeans and Americans to the islands that ended with the overthrow of the Kingdom of Hawaii, the original native monarchy of the islands.\n\nJames Cook led three separate voyages to chart unknown areas of the globe for the British Empire. It was on his third and final voyage that he encountered what is known today as the Islands of Hawaii. He first sighted the islands on 18 January 1778. He anchored off the west coast of the island of Kauai near Waimea and met inhabitants to trade and obtain water and food. \n\nOn 2 February 1778, Cook continued on to the coast of North America and Alaska searching for a Northwest Passage for approximately nine months. He returned to the island chain to resupply, initially exploring the coasts of Maui and the big island and trading with locals, then making anchor in Kealakekua Bay in January 1779. Cook and his crew were initially welcomed and treated with honour, as his arrival coincided with the Makahiki, a festival celebrating the yearly harvest while worshipping the Hawaiian deity Lono. \n\nHowever, after he and the crews of both ships, and , left the islands, the festival season had ended and the season for battle and war had begun under the worship and rituals for Kūkaʻilimoku, the god of war. Although Cook's sequential visits may have coincided with native traditional seasons, the natives had soured on Cook and his men by the time of Cook's initial departure. John Ledyard was the only American aboard Cook's ship during this time and the only citizen aboard the ship not loyal to the crown. Ledyard was present during the events leading up to and during Cook's death, and wrote a detailed account of the events in his journals.\n\nDuring Cook's initial visit, he attempted to barter and forcibly stole the wood used to border the natives' sacred \"Morai\" burial ground, used for high ranking individuals and depictions of their gods. Ledyard says in his journals, Cook offered two iron hatchets for the wooden border around the Morai and when the dismayed and insulted chiefs refused, Cook proceeded to give orders to ascend the Morai, break down the fence and load the boats with it. John Ledyard also tells of an episode where Captain Clerke accused a native chieftain friend of stealing the Resolution's jolly boat. The boat was soon found unstolen and the native chief soured from the false accusation. After staying in the bay for 19 days, Cook and his two ships sailed out of the bay.\n\nOn 6 February Cook's ships unmoored and left Kealakekua Bay. They were met with an unexpected hard gale which wrenched the mainmast of the \"Resolution\". On 11 February, the \"Resolution\" again entered Kealakekua Bay. Ledyard writes on 13 February:\n\nOur return to this bay was as disagreeable to us as it was to the inhabitants, for we were reciprocally tired of each other. They had been oppressed and were weary of our prostituted alliance... ...It was also equally evident from the looks of the natives as well as every other appearance that our friendship was at an end, and that we had nothing to do but to hasten our departure to some different island where our vices were not known, and where our intrinsic virtues might gain us another short space of being wondered at...\"\n\nWhile anchored in Kealakekua Bay, one of only two long boats (lifeboats used to ferry to/from ship/shore) was stolen by the Hawaiians, testing the foreigners' reaction to see how far they could go with such a significant loss. The Hawaiians had begun openly challenging the foreigners. In retaliation, and in an attempt to force good behavior on the natives, Cook attempted to kidnap the aliʻi nui of the island of Hawaii, Kalaniʻōpuʻu. Possibly being quite sick at this point, Cook made what were later described as a series of mistakes. The idea or suggestion that the Native Hawaiians considered Cook to be the God Lono himself is considered to be inaccurate and is attributed to William Bligh. It is possible that some Hawaiians may have used the name of Lono as a metaphor when describing Cook or other possible explanations other than Hawaiians mistaking the explorer for their own deity.\n\nOn the following morning of 14 February 1779, Cook and his men launched from \"Resolution\" along with a company of armed marines. They went directly to the ruling chief's enclosure where Kalaniʻōpuʻu was still sleeping. They woke him and directed him to come with them away from the town. As Cook and his men marched the ruler out of the royal enclosure, Cook himself had hold of the elder chief as they walked away from the town towards the beach. Kalaniʻōpuʻu's favorite wife, Kānekapōlei, saw them as they were leaving and yelled after her husband but he did not stop. She called to the other chiefs and the townspeople to alert them to the departure of her husband. Two chiefs, Kanaʻina (Kalaimanokahoʻowaha), the young son of the former ruler, Keaweʻopala and the king's personal attendant named Nuaa followed the group to the beach with the king's wife behind them pleading along the way for the aliʻi nui to stop and come back.\n\nBy the time they got to the beach, Kalaniʻōpuʻu's two youngest sons, who had been following their father believing they were being invited to visit the ship again with the ruler, began to climb into the boats that were waiting at the shore. Kānekapōlei shouted to them to get out of the boat and pleaded with her husband to stop. The ruler then realized that Cook and his men were not asking him to visit the ship, but forcing him. At this point he stopped and sat down.\n\nCook's men and the British Marines were confronted on the beach by an elderly kahuna who approached them holding a coconut and chanting. They yelled at the priest to go away but he kept approaching them while singing the mele. When Cook and his men looked away from the old kahuna, they saw that the beach was now filled with thousands of Native Hawaiians. Cook yelled at Kalaniʻōpuʻu to get up but the ruler refused. As the townspeople began to gather around them, Cook and his men began to back away from the crowd and raise their guns. The two chiefs and Kānekapōlei shielded the aliʻi nui as Cook tried to force him to his feet. Kanaʻina approached Cook, who reacted by striking the chief with the broad side of his sword. Kanaʻina instantly grabbed Cook and lifted the man. Some accounts state that Kanaʻina did not intend to hit Cook while other descriptions say the chief struck the navigator across the head with his leiomano. Either way, Kanaʻina released Cook, who fell to the sand. As Cook tried to get up, the attendant, Nuaa fatally stabbed him with a metal dagger, ironically traded from Cook's ship during the same visit. Cook fell with his face in the water. This caused a close-quarters melee between the townspeople and Cook's companions. Four of the Royal Marines (Corporal James Thomas and Privates Theophilus Hinks, Thomas Fachett, and John Allen) were killed, and two were wounded. The remaining sailors and marines fired as they fled to their small boat and rowed back to their ship, injuring and killing dozens of Native Hawaiians on the beach, including possibly High Chief Kanaʻina. Cook's ships did not leave Kealakekua bay until 22 February. They remained for another week to continue repair of the mast and collect better quality drinking water. According to John Ledyard's journal's hundreds of natives were shot in a series of ongoing skirmishes. The ships cannon was used on several occasions among the natives and a large portion of Kireekakooa, the southern town in the bay, was burned. \nA young William Bligh, the future captain of , later claimed to have been watching with a spyglass from \"Resolution\" as Cook's body was dragged up the hill to the town where it was torn to pieces. In fact, Cook's remains were treated differently: the high esteem in which the islanders held Cook caused them to retain his body. Following their practice of the time, they prepared his body with funerary rituals usually reserved for the chiefs and highest elders of the society. The body was disembowelled, baked to facilitate removal of the flesh, and the bones were carefully cleaned for preservation as religious icons. Some of Cook's remains, thus preserved, were eventually returned to his crew for a formal burial at sea.\n\n"}
{"id": "6185423", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6185423", "title": "List of Sites of Special Scientific Interest in Tweeddale and Ettrick and Lauderdale", "text": "List of Sites of Special Scientific Interest in Tweeddale and Ettrick and Lauderdale\n\nThe following is a list of Sites of Special Scientific Interest in the Tweeddale and Ettrick and Lauderdale Area of Search. For other areas, see List of SSSIs by Area of Search.\n\n"}
{"id": "14385681", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14385681", "title": "List of Superfund sites in Oklahoma", "text": "List of Superfund sites in Oklahoma\n\nThis is a list of Superfund sites in Oklahoma designated under the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation, and Liability Act (CERCLA) environmental law. The CERCLA federal law of 1980 authorized the United States Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) to create a list of polluted locations requiring a long-term response to clean up hazardous material contaminations. These locations are known as Superfund sites, and are placed on the National Priorities List (NPL). \n\nThe NPL guides the EPA in \"determining which sites warrant further investigation\" for environmental remediation. As of May 2, 2010, there were eight Superfund sites on the National Priorities List in Oklahoma. One more site has been proposed for entry on the list and five others have been cleaned up and removed from it.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "6721300", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6721300", "title": "List of alpha emitting materials", "text": "List of alpha emitting materials\n\nThe following are among the principal radioactive materials known to emit alpha particles.\n\n"}
{"id": "44492", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44492", "title": "List of areas in the United States National Park System", "text": "List of areas in the United States National Park System\n\nThe National Park System of the United States is the collection of physical properties owned or administered by the National Park Service. The collection includes all national parks and most national monuments, as well as several other types of protected areas of the United States.\n\nAs of October 2018, there are units of the National Park System. However, this number is somewhat misleading. For example, Denali National Park and Preserve is counted as two units, since the same name applies to a national park and an adjacent national preserve. Yet Jean Lafitte National Historical Park and Preserve is counted as one unit, despite its double designation. Counting methodology is rooted in the language of a park's enabling legislation. Elsewhere, Fort Moultrie is not counted as a unit because it is considered a feature of Fort Sumter National Monument.\n\nIn addition to areas of the National Park System, the National Park Service also provides technical and financial assistance to several affiliated areas authorized by Congress. Affiliated areas are marked on the lists below.\n\nThe National Register of Historic Places (NRHP), which contains nearly 79,000 entries, is administered by the National Park Service. All historically significant park units are automatically included on the NRHP—i.e., all national historical parks and historic sites, national battlefields and military parks, and national memorials, as well as some national monuments.\n\nNational Park System units are found in all 50 states, in Washington, D.C., and in the U.S. territories of Guam, the Northern Mariana Islands, American Samoa, the U.S. Virgin Islands, and Puerto Rico.\n\nNearly all units managed by the National Park Service participate in the National Park Passport Stamps program.\n\nThere are 60 officially designated national parks in the United States and its dependent areas.\n\nAs of 2018, there are 130 national monuments, 89 of which are administered by the NPS and are listed below. The remaining 40 monuments are administered by five other federal agencies. Two, Grand Canyon-Parashant and Craters of the Moon National Monuments, are jointly administered by the NPS and the Bureau of Land Management, and World War II Valor in the Pacific National Monument is joint with the Fish and Wildlife Service.\n\nThere are 21 national preserves in the United States. 10 are distinct stand-alone official units of the National Park System, while 9 others are merely areas of distinct management policies and land-use restrictions within a larger \"National Park and Preserve\" or \"National Monument and Preserve\" that are counted as two units of the National Park System by the National Park Service. Two others are areas of distinct management policies and land-use restrictions within a larger park (Oregon Caves National Monument and Preserve and Jean Lafitte National Historical Park and Preserve) but by statute are counted by the National Park Service as single units of the National Park System.\n\nThere are 52 national historical parks.\n\nThe National Park Service administers the national historic sites, with the exception of Grey Towers National Historic Site (managed by the U.S. Forest Service) and those that are managed as Affiliated Areas of the National Park System.\n\nThere are 88 national historic sites, of which 77 are NPS units and 11 are affiliated areas.\n\nThere are 29 national memorials that are NPS units and five affiliated national memorials.\nThere are 18 national recreation areas administered by the National Park Service.\n\nThere are 10 national seashores.\nThere are four national lakeshores, located in Michigan, Indiana, and Wisconsin.\nThere are 5 national rivers (marked with an asterisk) and 10 national wild and scenic rivers administered as distinct units of the National Park System. \n\nThese National Park Service trails are part of the larger National Trails System. Only three of the trails are considered official units of the park system.\n\nMost national cemeteries are administered by the Department of Veterans Affairs, although a few are managed by the National Park Service and the U.S. Army. None of the cemeteries are considered official units of the system; they are all affiliated with other parks.\n\nThe National Park Service provides limited assistance to national heritage areas, but does not administer them.\n\nThere are 11 NPS units of other designations, as well as other affiliated areas. The National Mall and national capital parks have many sites, some of which are also units of other designations and some are also national historic sites.\nThere are also various administrative groups of listed parks, such as Manhattan Sites, National Parks of New York Harbor, and Western Arctic National Parklands. The NPS also owns conservation easements (but not the land itself) for part of the area called the Green Springs National Historic Landmark District.\n\nIn the 1930 and 1940s, the NPS developed dozens of recreational demonstration areas, most of which eventually became national or state parks.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "22905814", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22905814", "title": "List of mountain passes of the Northern Cape", "text": "List of mountain passes of the Northern Cape\n\nThis is a list of publicly accessible, motorable passes in the Northern Cape province, South Africa.\nSee Mountain Passes of South Africa\n"}
{"id": "17023525", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17023525", "title": "List of unnamed tropical cyclones", "text": "List of unnamed tropical cyclones\n\nThe list of unnamed tropical cyclones since naming began includes all tropical cyclones that met the criteria for naming in a basin, but that for whatever reason, did not receive a name. These systems have occurred in all basins and for various reasons.\n\nIn order to ease communications and advisories, tropical cyclones are named when, according to the appropriate Regional Specialized Meteorological Center or Tropical Cyclone Warning Center, it has reached tropical storm status. A tropical cyclone with winds of tropical storm intensity or higher goes unnamed when operationally, it is not considered to have met the criteria for naming. Reasons for this include:\n\n\nOnly unnamed subtropical cyclones that could have been named are included. This excludes several that existed, but that were unnamed because subtropical cyclones were not named when they existed.\nNaming has been used since the 1950 season.\n\nNaming began in 1960. Before 1957, a few systems in the central Pacific basin were given names, generally in an ad hoc manner.\n\n\nThe official practice of tropical cyclone naming started in 1945 within the Western Pacific. Due to differences in wind speed criteria between the Japan Meteorological Agency and the Joint Typhoon Warning Center, a system will sometimes be considered a tropical storm by the JTWC but only a depression by the JMA, or vice versa. This results in several apparent unnamed systems. Prior to 2000, the JTWC was responsible for tropical cyclone naming, with the JMA assuming responsibility for naming from 2000 and beyond. Due to this, \"unnamed tropical cyclones\" that met the JMA's tropical storm criteria but not those of the JTWC prior to 2000 are excluded. Likewise, \"unnamed tropical cyclones\" that met the JTWC's tropical storm criteria but not those of the JMA from 2000 and beyond are also excluded. \n\nDue to differences in wind speed criteria between the India Meteorological Department and the Joint Typhoon Warning Center, a system will sometimes be considered a tropical storm by the JTWC but only a depression by the IMD. This results in several apparent unnamed systems. Because the IMD is responsible for naming, \"unnamed tropical cyclones\" that met the JTWC's tropical storm criteria but not those of the IMD are excluded.\n\nNaming has taken place since mid-2003.\n\nThere have been no unnamed tropical cyclones using the India Meteorological Department's criteria. One system, 2007's Yemyin, was upgraded after the fact and retroactively named.\n\nTropical cyclones have been named within this basin since 1960, with any tropical depression or subtropical depression that RSMC La Réunion analyze as having 10-minute sustained windspeeds of at least 65 km/h, 40 mph is named. However unlike other basins RSMC La Réunion do not name tropical depressions, however as they delegate the rights to name tropical cyclones to the Subregional tropical cyclone warning centers in Mauritius or Madagascar depending on whether it is east or west of the 55th meridian east.\n\n\n\n\nUnless otherwise indicated, all storms come from the following datasets from the Regional Specialized Meteorological Center:\n"}
{"id": "15519981", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15519981", "title": "Montane Cordillera", "text": "Montane Cordillera\n\nThe Montane Cordillera Ecozone, as defined by the Commission for Environmental Cooperation (CEC), is an ecozone in south-central British Columbia and southwestern Alberta, Canada (an ecozone is equivalent to a Level I ecoregion in the United States). A rugged and mountainous ecozone spanning 473,000 square kilometres, it still contains \"two of the few significant agricultural areas of the province\", the Creston Valley and the Okanagan Valley. Primarily a mountainous region, it consists of rugged ecosystems such as alpine tundra, dry sagebrush and dense conifer forests. The interior plains are encircled by a ring of mountains. The area has a mild climate throughout the year, with typically dry summers and wet winters.\n\nThe corresponding name in the United States for this ecozone, where it is classed as a Level I ecoregion by the United States Environmental Protection Agency, which is identical though differently-named than the CEC system, is the Northwestern Forested Mountains ecoregion.\n\nIt contains the headwaters for the Fraser and Columbia rivers and many of their tributaries, notably the Thompson and Kootenay. Within the ecozone are also found dozens of provincial parks and seven national parks:\n\n\nIt is bordered to the west by the Pacific Maritime Ecozone, to the north by the Boreal Cordillera Ecozone, to the northeast by the Boreal Plains Ecozone, and to the southeast by the Prairies Ecozone.\n"}
{"id": "21869", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21869", "title": "Neutron star", "text": "Neutron star\n\nA neutron star is the collapsed core of a giant star which before collapse had a total of between 10 and 29 solar masses. Neutron stars are the smallest and densest stars, not counting hypothetical quark stars and strange stars. Neutron stars have a radius on the order of and a mass between 1.4 and 2.16 solar masses. They result from the supernova explosion of a massive star, combined with gravitational collapse, that compresses the core past white dwarf star density to that of atomic nuclei.\n\nOnce formed, they no longer actively generate heat, and cool over time; however, they may still evolve further through collision or accretion. Most of the basic models for these objects imply that neutron stars are composed almost entirely of neutrons (subatomic particles with no net electrical charge and with slightly larger mass than protons); the electrons and protons present in normal matter combine to produce neutrons at the conditions in a neutron star. Neutron stars are supported against further collapse by neutron degeneracy pressure, a phenomenon described by the Pauli exclusion principle, just as white dwarfs are supported against collapse by electron degeneracy pressure. If the remnant star has a mass greater than about 3 solar masses, it continues collapsing to form a black hole.\n\nNeutron stars that can be observed are very hot and typically have a surface temperature of around . They are so dense that a normal-sized matchbox containing neutron-star material would have a weight of approximately 3 billion tonnes, the same weight as a 0.5 cubic kilometre chunk of the Earth (a cube with edges of about 800 metres). Their magnetic fields are between 10 and 10 (100 million to 1 quadrillion) times as strong as that of the Earth. The gravitational field at the neutron star's surface is about (200 billion) times that of the Earth.\n\nAs the star's core collapses, its rotation rate increases as a result of conservation of angular momentum, hence newly formed neutron stars rotate at up to several hundred times per second. Some neutron stars emit beams of electromagnetic radiation that make them detectable as pulsars. Indeed, the discovery of pulsars by Jocelyn Bell Burnell in 1967 was the first observational suggestion that neutron stars exist. The radiation from pulsars is thought to be primarily emitted from regions near their magnetic poles. If the magnetic poles do not coincide with the rotational axis of the neutron star, the emission beam will sweep the sky, and when seen from a distance, if the observer is somewhere in the path of the beam, it will appear as pulses of radiation coming from a fixed point in space (the so-called \"lighthouse effect\"). The fastest-spinning neutron star known is PSR J1748-2446ad, rotating at a rate of 716 times a second or 43,000 revolutions per minute, giving a linear speed at the surface on the order of (i.e. nearly a quarter the speed of light).\n\nThere are thought to be around 100 million neutron stars in the Milky Way, a figure obtained by estimating the number of stars that have undergone supernova explosions. However, most are old and cold, and neutron stars can only be easily detected in certain instances, such as if they are a pulsar or part of a binary system. Slow-rotating and non-accreting neutron stars are almost undetectable; however, since the \"Hubble Space Telescope\" detection of RX J185635-3754, a few nearby neutron stars that appear to emit only thermal radiation have been detected. Soft gamma repeaters are conjectured to be a type of neutron star with very strong magnetic fields, known as magnetars, or alternatively, neutron stars with fossil disks around them.\n\nNeutron stars in binary systems can undergo accretion which typically makes the system bright in X-rays while the material falling onto the neutron star can form hotspots that rotate in and out of view in identified X-ray pulsar systems. Additionally, such accretion can \"recycle\" old pulsars and potentially cause them to gain mass and spin-up to very fast rotation rates, forming the so-called millisecond pulsars. These binary systems will continue to evolve, and eventually the companions can become compact objects such as white dwarfs or neutron stars themselves, though other possibilities include a complete destruction of the companion through ablation or merger. The merger of binary neutron stars may be the source of short-duration gamma-ray bursts and are likely strong sources of gravitational waves. In 2017, a direct detection (GW170817) of the gravitational waves from such an event was made, and gravitational waves have also been indirectly detected in a system where two neutron stars orbit each other.\n\nIn October 2018, astronomers reported that GRB 150101B, a gamma-ray burst event detected in 2015, may be directly related to the historic GW170817 and associated with the merger of two neutron stars. The similarities between the two events, in terms of gamma ray, optical and x-ray emissions, as well as to the nature of the associated host galaxies, are \"striking\", suggesting the two separate events may both be the result of the merger of neutron stars, and both may be a kilonova, which may be more common in the universe than previously understood, according to the researchers.\n\nAny main-sequence star with an initial mass of above 8 times the mass of the sun () has the potential to produce a neutron star. As the star evolves away from the main sequence, subsequent nuclear burning produces an iron-rich core. When all nuclear fuel in the core has been exhausted, the core must be supported by degeneracy pressure alone. Further deposits of mass from shell burning cause the core to exceed the Chandrasekhar limit. Electron-degeneracy pressure is overcome and the core collapses further, sending temperatures soaring to over . At these temperatures, photodisintegration (the breaking up of iron nuclei into alpha particles by high-energy gamma rays) occurs. As the temperature climbs even higher, electrons and protons combine to form neutrons via electron capture, releasing a flood of neutrinos. When densities reach nuclear density of , neutron degeneracy pressure halts the contraction. The infalling outer envelope of the star is halted and flung outwards by a flux of neutrinos produced in the creation of the neutrons, becoming a supernova. The remnant left is a neutron star. If the remnant has a mass greater than about , it collapses further to become a black hole.\n\nAs the core of a massive star is compressed during a Type II supernova, Type Ib or Type Ic supernova, and collapses into a neutron star, it retains most of its angular momentum. But, because it has only a tiny fraction of its parent's radius (and therefore its moment of inertia is sharply reduced), a neutron star is formed with very high rotation speed, and then over a very long period it slows. Neutron stars are known that have rotation periods from about 1.4 ms to 30 s. The neutron star's density also gives it very high surface gravity, with typical values ranging from 10 to 10 m/s (more than 10 times that of Earth). One measure of such immense gravity is the fact that neutron stars have an escape velocity ranging from 100,000 km/s to 150,000 km/s, that is, from a third to half the speed of light. The neutron star's gravity accelerates infalling matter to tremendous speed. The force of its impact would likely destroy the object's component atoms, rendering all the matter identical, in most respects, to the rest of the neutron star.\n\nA neutron star has a mass of at least 1.1 and perhaps up to 3 solar masses (). The maximum observed mass of neutron stars is about . But in general, compact stars of less than (the Chandrasekhar limit) are white dwarfs, whereas compact stars with a mass between and (the Tolman–Oppenheimer–Volkoff limit) should be neutron stars (though there is an interval of a few tenths of a solar mass where the masses of low-mass neutron stars and high-mass white dwarfs can overlap). Between and , hypothetical intermediate-mass stars such as quark stars and electroweak stars have been proposed, but none have been shown to exist. Beyond the stellar remnant will overcome the neutron degeneracy pressure and gravitational collapse will usually occur to produce a black hole, though the smallest observed mass of a stellar black hole is about .\n\nThe temperature inside a newly formed neutron star is from around 10 to 10 kelvin. However, the huge number of neutrinos it emits carry away so much energy that the temperature of an isolated neutron star falls within a few years to around 10 kelvin. At this lower temperature, most of the light generated by a neutron star is in X-rays.\n\nNeutron stars have overall densities of to ( to times the density of the Sun), which is comparable to the approximate density of an atomic nucleus of . The neutron star's density varies from about in the crust—increasing with depth—to about or (denser than an atomic nucleus) deeper inside. A neutron star is so dense that one teaspoon (5 milliliters) of its material would have a mass over , about 900 times the mass of the Great Pyramid of Giza. In the enormous gravitational field of a neutron star, its weight would be , which is about 15 times the weight of the Moon. The pressure increases from to from the inner crust to the center.\n\nThe equation of state of matter at such high densities is not precisely known because of the theoretical difficulties associated with extrapolating the likely behavior of quantum chromodynamics, superconductivity, and superfluidity of matter in such states along with the empirical difficulties of observing the characteristics of neutron stars that are at least hundreds of parsecs away.\n\nA neutron star has some of the properties of an atomic nucleus, including density (within an order of magnitude) and being composed of nucleons. In popular scientific writing, neutron stars are therefore sometimes described as \"giant nuclei\". However, in other respects, neutron stars and atomic nuclei are quite different. A nucleus is held together by the strong interaction, whereas a neutron star is held together by gravity. The density of a nucleus is uniform, while neutron stars are predicted to consist of multiple layers with varying compositions and densities.\n\nThe magnetic field strength on the surface of neutron stars ranges from c. 10 to 10 tesla. These are orders of magnitude higher than in any other object: for comparison, a continuous 16 T field has been achieved in the laboratory and is sufficient to levitate a living frog due to diamagnetic levitation. Variations in magnetic field strengths are most likely the main factor that allows different types of neutron stars to be distinguished by their spectra, and explains the periodicity of pulsars.\n\nThe neutron stars known as magnetars have the strongest magnetic fields, in the range of 10 to 10 tesla, and have become the widely accepted hypothesis for neutron star types soft gamma repeaters (SGRs) and anomalous X-ray pulsars (AXPs). The magnetic energy density of a 10 T field is extreme, exceeding the mass-energy density of ordinary matter. Fields of this strength are able to polarize the vacuum to the point that the vacuum becomes birefringent. Photons can merge or split in two, and virtual particle-antiparticle pairs are produced. The field changes electron energy levels and atoms are forced into thin cylinders. Unlike in an ordinary pulsar, magnetar spin-down can be directly powered by its magnetic field, and the magnetic field is strong enough to stress the crust to the point of fracture. Fractures of the crust cause starquakes, observed as extremely luminous millisecond hard gamma ray bursts. The fireball is trapped by the magnetic field, and comes in and out of view when the star rotates, which is observed as a periodic soft gamma repeater (SGR) emission with a period of 5–8 seconds and which lasts for a few minutes.\n\nThe origins of the strong magnetic field are as yet unclear. One hypothesis is that of \"flux freezing\", or conservation of the original magnetic flux during the formation of the neutron star. If an object has a certain magnetic flux over its surface area, and that area shrinks to a smaller area, but the magnetic flux is conserved, then the magnetic field would correspondingly increase. Likewise, a collapsing star begins with a much larger surface area than the resulting neutron star, and conservation of magnetic flux would result in a far stronger magnetic field. However, this simple explanation does not fully explain magnetic field strengths of neutron stars.\n\nThe gravitational field at a neutron star's surface is about times stronger than on Earth, at around . Such a strong gravitational field acts as a gravitational lens and bends the radiation emitted by the neutron star such that parts of the normally invisible rear surface become visible.\nIf the radius of the neutron star is 3\"GM\"/\"c\" or less, then the photons may be trapped in an orbit, thus making the whole surface of that neutron star visible \"from a single vantage point\", along with destabilizing photon orbits at or below the 1 radius distance of the star.\n\nA fraction of the mass of a star that collapses to form a neutron star is released in the supernova explosion from which it forms (from the law of mass–energy equivalence, ). The energy comes from the gravitational binding energy of a neutron star.\n\nHence, the gravitational force of a typical neutron star is huge. If an object were to fall from a height of one meter on a neutron star 12 kilometers in radius, it would reach the ground at around 1400 kilometers per second. However, even before impact, the tidal force would cause spaghettification, breaking any sort of an ordinary object into a stream of material.\n\nBecause of the enormous gravity, time dilation between a neutron star and Earth is significant. For example, eight years could pass on the surface of a neutron star, yet ten years would have passed on Earth, not including the time-dilation effect of its very rapid rotation.\n\nNeutron star relativistic equations of state describe the relation of radius vs. mass for various models. The most likely radii for a given neutron star mass are bracketed by models AP4 (smallest radius) and MS2 (largest radius). BE is the ratio of gravitational binding energy mass equivalent to the observed neutron star gravitational mass of \"M\" kilograms with radius \"R\" meters,\n\nGiven current values\n\nand star masses \"M\" commonly reported as multiples of one solar mass,\n\nthen the relativistic fractional binding energy of a neutron star is\n\nA neutron star would not be more compact than 10,970 meters radius (AP4 model). Its mass fraction gravitational binding energy would then be 0.187, −18.7% (exothermic). This is not near 0.6/2 = 0.3, −30%.\n\nThe equation of state for a neutron star is not yet known. It is assumed that it differs significantly from that of a white dwarf, whose equation of state is that of a degenerate gas that can be described in close agreement with special relativity. However, with a neutron star the increased effects of general relativity can no longer be ignored. Several equations of state have been proposed (FPS, UU, APR, L, SLy, and others) and current research is still attempting to constrain the theories to make predictions of neutron star matter. This means that the relation between density and mass is not fully known, and this causes uncertainties in radius estimates. For example, a neutron star could have a radius of 10.7, 11.1, 12.1 or 15.1 kilometers (for EOS FPS, UU, APR or L respectively).\n\nCurrent understanding of the structure of neutron stars is defined by existing mathematical models, but it might be possible to infer some details through studies of neutron-star oscillations. Asteroseismology, a study applied to ordinary stars, can reveal the inner structure of neutron stars by analyzing observed spectra of stellar oscillations.\n\nCurrent models indicate that matter at the surface of a neutron star is composed of ordinary atomic nuclei crushed into a solid lattice with a sea of electrons flowing through the gaps between them. It is possible that the nuclei at the surface are iron, due to iron's high binding energy per nucleon. It is also possible that heavy elements, such as iron, simply sink beneath the surface, leaving only light nuclei like helium and hydrogen. If the surface temperature exceeds 10 kelvin (as in the case of a young pulsar), the surface should be fluid instead of the solid phase that might exist in cooler neutron stars (temperature <10 kelvin).\n\nThe \"atmosphere\" of a neutron star is hypothesized to be at most several micrometers thick, and its dynamics are fully controlled by the neutron star's magnetic field. Below the atmosphere one encounters a solid \"crust\". This crust is extremely hard and very smooth (with maximum surface irregularities of ~5 mm), due to the extreme gravitational field.\n\nProceeding inward, one encounters nuclei with ever-increasing numbers of neutrons; such nuclei would decay quickly on Earth, but are kept stable by tremendous pressures. As this process continues at increasing depths, the neutron drip becomes overwhelming, and the concentration of free neutrons increases rapidly. In that region, there are nuclei, free electrons, and free neutrons. The nuclei become increasingly small (gravity and pressure overwhelming the strong force) until the core is reached, by definition the point where mostly neutrons exist. The expected hierarchy of phases of nuclear matter in the inner crust has been characterized as \"nuclear pasta\", with fewer voids and larger structures towards higher pressures.\nThe composition of the superdense matter in the core remains uncertain. One model describes the core as superfluid neutron-degenerate matter (mostly neutrons, with some protons and electrons). More exotic forms of matter are possible, including degenerate strange matter (containing strange quarks in addition to up and down quarks), matter containing high-energy pions and kaons in addition to neutrons, or ultra-dense quark-degenerate matter.\n\nNeutron stars are detected from their electromagnetic radiation. Neutron stars are usually observed to pulse radio waves and other electromagnetic radiation, and neutron stars observed with pulses are called pulsars.\n\nPulsars' radiation is thought to be caused by particle acceleration near their magnetic poles, which need not be aligned with the rotational axis of the neutron star. It is thought that a large electrostatic field builds up near the magnetic poles, leading to electron emission. These electrons are magnetically accelerated along the field lines, leading to curvature radiation, with the radiation being strongly polarized towards the plane of curvature. In addition, high energy photons can interact with lower energy photons and the magnetic field for electron-positron pair production, which through electron–positron annihilation leads to further high energy photons.\n\nThe radiation emanating from the magnetic poles of neutron stars can be described as \"magnetospheric radiation\", in reference to the magnetosphere of the neutron star. It is not to be confused with \"magnetic dipole radiation\", which is emitted because the magnetic axis is not aligned with the rotational axis, with a radiation frequency the same as the neutron star's rotational frequency.\n\nIf the axis of rotation of the neutron star is different to the magnetic axis, external viewers will only see these beams of radiation whenever the magnetic axis point towards them during the neutron star rotation. Therefore, periodic pulses are observed, at the same rate as the rotation of the neutron star.\n\nIn addition to pulsars, neutron stars have also been identified with no apparent periodicity of their radiation. This seems to be a characteristic of the X-ray sources known as Central Compact Objects in Supernova remnants (CCOs in SNRs), which are thought to be young, radio-quiet isolated neutron stars.\n\nIn addition to radio emissions, neutron stars have also been identified in other parts of the electromagnetic spectrum. This includes visible light, near infrared, ultraviolet, X-rays and gamma rays. Pulsars observed in X-rays are known as X-ray pulsars if accretion-powered; while those identified in visible light as optical pulsars. The majority of neutron stars detected, including those identified in optical, X-ray and gamma rays, also emit radio waves; the Crab Pulsar produces electromagnetic emissions across the spectrum. However, there exist neutron stars called radio-quiet neutron stars, with no radio emissions detected.\n\nNeutron stars rotate extremely rapidly after their formation due to the conservation of angular momentum; like spinning ice skaters pulling in their arms, the slow rotation of the original star's core speeds up as it shrinks. A newborn neutron star can rotate many times a second.\n\nOver time, neutron stars slow, as their rotating magnetic fields in effect radiate energy associated with the rotation; older neutron stars may take several seconds for each revolution. This is called \"spin down\". The rate at which a neutron star slows its rotation is usually constant and very small.\n\nThe periodic time (\"P\") is the rotational period, the time for one rotation of a neutron star. The spin-down rate, the rate of slowing of rotation, is then given the symbol formula_8 (\"P\"-dot), the negative derivative of \"P\" with respect to time. It is defined as periodic time decrease per unit time; it is a dimensionless quantity, but can be given the units of s⋅s (seconds per second).\n\nThe spin-down rate (\"P\"-dot) of neutron stars usually falls within the range of 10 to 10 s⋅s, with the shorter period (or faster rotating) observable neutron stars usually having smaller \"P\"-dot. However, as a neutron star ages, the neutron star slows (\"P\" increases) and the rate of slowing decreases (\"P\"-dot decreases). Eventually, the rate of rotation becomes too slow to power the radio-emission mechanism, and the neutron star can no longer be detected.\n\n\"P\" and \"P\"-dot allow minimum magnetic fields of neutron stars to be estimated. \"P\" and \"P\"-dot can be also used to calculate the \"characteristic age\" of a pulsar, but gives an estimate which is somewhat larger than the true age when it is applied to young pulsars.\n\n\"P\" and \"P\"-dot can also be combined with neutron star's moment of inertia to estimate a quantity called \"spin-down luminosity\", which is given the symbol formula_9 (\"E\"-dot). It is not the measured luminosity, but rather the calculated loss rate of rotational energy that would manifest itself as radiation. For neutron stars where the spin-down luminosity is comparable to the actual luminosity, the neutron stars are said to be \"rotation powered\". The observed luminosity of the Crab Pulsar is comparable to the spin-down luminosity, supporting the model that rotational kinetic energy powers the radiation from it. With neutron stars such as magnetars, where the actual luminosity exceeds the spin-down luminosity by about a factor of one hundred, it is assumed that the luminosity is powered by magnetic dissipation, rather than being rotation powered.\n\n\"P\" and \"P\"-dot can also be plotted for neutron stars to create a \"P\"–\"P\"-dot diagram. It encodes a tremendous amount of information about the pulsar population and its properties, and has been likened to the Hertzsprung–Russell diagram in its importance for neutron stars.\n\nNeutron star rotational speeds can increase, a process known as spin up. Sometimes neutron stars absorb orbiting matter from companion stars, increasing the rotation rate and reshaping the neutron star into an oblate spheroid. This causes an increase in the rate of rotation of the neutron star of over a hundred times per second in the case of millisecond pulsars.\n\nThe most rapidly rotating neutron star currently known, PSR J1748-2446ad, rotates at 716 revolutions per second. A 2007 paper reported the detection of an X-ray burst oscillation, which provides an indirect measure of spin, of 1122 Hz from the neutron star XTE J1739-285, suggesting 1122 rotations a second. However, at present, this signal has only been seen once, and should be regarded as tentative until confirmed in another burst from that star.\n\nSometimes a neutron star will undergo a glitch, a sudden small increase of its rotational speed or spin up. Glitches are thought to be the effect of a starquake—as the rotation of the neutron star slows, its shape becomes more spherical. Due to the stiffness of the \"neutron\" crust, this happens as discrete events when the crust ruptures, creating a starquake similar to earthquakes. After the starquake, the star will have a smaller equatorial radius, and because angular momentum is conserved, its rotational speed has increased.\n\nStarquakes occurring in magnetars, with a resulting glitch, is the leading hypothesis for the gamma-ray sources known as soft gamma repeaters.\n\nRecent work, however, suggests that a starquake would not release sufficient energy for a neutron star glitch; it has been suggested that glitches may instead be caused by transitions of vortices in the theoretical superfluid core of the neutron star from one metastable energy state to a lower one, thereby releasing energy that appears as an increase in the rotation rate.\n\nAn \"anti-glitch\", a sudden small decrease in rotational speed, or spin down, of a neutron star has also been reported. It occurred in a magnetar, that in one case produced an X-ray luminosity increase of a factor of 20, and a significant spin-down rate change. Current neutron star models do not predict this behavior. If the cause was internal, it suggests differential rotation of solid outer crust and the superfluid component of the magnetar's inner structure.\n\nAt present, there are about 2000 known neutron stars in the Milky Way and the Magellanic Clouds, the majority of which have been detected as radio pulsars. Neutron stars are mostly concentrated along the disk of the Milky Way although the spread perpendicular to the disk is large because the supernova explosion process can impart high translational speeds (400 km/s) to the newly formed neutron star.\n\nSome of the closest known neutron stars are RX J1856.5-3754, which is about 400 light years from Earth, and PSR J0108-1431 at about 424 light years. RX J1856.5-3754 is a member of a close group of neutron stars called The Magnificent Seven. Another nearby neutron star that was detected transiting the backdrop of the constellation Ursa Minor has been nicknamed Calvera by its Canadian and American discoverers, after the villain in the 1960 film \"The Magnificent Seven\". This rapidly moving object was discovered using the ROSAT/Bright Source Catalog.\n\nAbout 5% of all known neutron stars are members of a binary system. The formation and evolution of binary neutron stars can be a complex process. Neutron stars have been observed in binaries with ordinary main-sequence stars, red giants, white dwarfs or other neutron stars. According to modern theories of binary evolution it is expected that neutron stars also exist in binary systems with black hole companions. The merger of binaries containing two neutron stars, or a neutron star and a black hole, are expected to be prime sources for the emission of detectable gravitational waves.\n\nBinary systems containing neutron stars often emit X-rays, which are emitted by hot gas as it falls towards the surface of the neutron star. The source of the gas is the companion star, the outer layers of which can be stripped off by the gravitational force of the neutron star if the two stars are sufficiently close. As the neutron star accretes this gas its mass can increase; if enough mass is accreted the neutron star may collapse into a black hole.\n\nBinaries containing two neutron stars are observed to shrink as gravitational waves are emitted. Ultimately the neutron stars will come into contact and coalesce.\nThe coalescence of binary neutron stars is one of the leading models for the origin of short gamma-ray bursts. Strong evidence for this model came from the observation of a kilonova associated with the short-duration gamma-ray burst GRB 130603B, and finally confirmed by detection of gravitational wave GW170817 and short GRB 170817A by LIGO, Virgo and 70 observatories covering the electromagnetic spectrum observed the event. The light emitted in the kilonova is believed to come from the radioactive decay of material ejected in the merger of the two neutron stars. This material may be responsible for the production of many of the chemical elements beyond iron, as opposed to the supernova nucleosynthesis theory.\n\nNeutron stars can host exoplanets. These can be original, circumbinary, captured, or the result of a second round of planet formation. Pulsars can also strip the atmosphere off from a star, leaving a planetary-mass remnant, which may be understood as a chthonian planet or a stellar object depending on interpretation. For pulsars, such pulsar planets can be detected with the pulsar timing method, which allows for high precision and detection of much smaller planets than with other methods. Two systems have been definitively confirmed. The first exoplanets ever to be detected were the three planets Draugr, Poltergeist and Phobetor around PSR B1257+12, discovered in 1992–1994. Of these, Draugr is the smallest exoplanet ever detected, at a mass of twice that of the Moon. Another system is PSR B1620-26, where a circumbinary planet orbits a neutron star-white dwarf binary system. Also, there are several unconfirmed candidates. Pulsar planets receive little visible light, but massive amounts of ionizing radiation and high-energy stellar wind, which makes them rather hostile environments.\n\nAt the meeting of the American Physical Society in December 1933 (the proceedings were published in January 1934), Walter Baade and Fritz Zwicky proposed the existence of neutron stars, less than two years after the discovery of the neutron by Sir James Chadwick. In seeking an explanation for the origin of a supernova, they tentatively proposed that in supernova explosions ordinary stars are turned into stars that consist of extremely closely packed neutrons that they called neutron stars. Baade and Zwicky correctly proposed at that time that the release of the gravitational binding energy of the neutron stars powers the supernova: \"In the supernova process, mass in bulk is annihilated\". Neutron stars were thought to be too faint to be detectable and little work was done on them until November 1967, when Franco Pacini pointed out that if the neutron stars were spinning and had large magnetic fields, then electromagnetic waves would be emitted. Unbeknown to him, radio astronomer Antony Hewish and his research assistant Jocelyn Bell at Cambridge were shortly to detect radio pulses from stars that are now believed to be highly magnetized, rapidly spinning neutron stars, known as pulsars.\n\nIn 1965, Antony Hewish and Samuel Okoye discovered \"an unusual source of high radio brightness temperature in the Crab Nebula\". This source turned out to be the Crab Pulsar that resulted from the great supernova of 1054.\n\nIn 1967, Iosif Shklovsky examined the X-ray and optical observations of Scorpius X-1 and correctly concluded that the radiation comes from a neutron star at the stage of accretion.\n\nIn 1967, Jocelyn Bell Burnell and Antony Hewish discovered regular radio pulses from PSR B1919+21. This pulsar was later interpreted as an isolated, rotating neutron star. The energy source of the pulsar is the rotational energy of the neutron star. The majority of known neutron stars (about 2000, as of 2010) have been discovered as pulsars, emitting regular radio pulses.\n\nIn 1971, Riccardo Giacconi, Herbert Gursky, Ed Kellogg, R. Levinson, E. Schreier, and H. Tananbaum discovered 4.8 second pulsations in an X-ray source in the constellation Centaurus, Cen X-3. They interpreted this as resulting from a rotating hot neutron star. The energy source is gravitational and results from a rain of gas falling onto the surface of the neutron star from a companion star or the interstellar medium.\n\nIn 1974, Antony Hewish was awarded the Nobel Prize in Physics \"for his decisive role in the discovery of pulsars\" without Jocelyn Bell who shared in the discovery.\n\nIn 1974, Joseph Taylor and Russell Hulse discovered the first binary pulsar, PSR B1913+16, which consists of two neutron stars (one seen as a pulsar) orbiting around their center of mass. Einstein's general theory of relativity predicts that massive objects in short binary orbits should emit gravitational waves, and thus that their orbit should decay with time. This was indeed observed, precisely as general relativity predicts, and in 1993, Taylor and Hulse were awarded the Nobel Prize in Physics for this discovery.\n\nIn 1982, Don Backer and colleagues discovered the first millisecond pulsar, PSR B1937+21. This object spins 642 times per second, a value that placed fundamental constraints on the mass and radius of neutron stars. Many millisecond pulsars were later discovered, but PSR B1937+21 remained the fastest-spinning known pulsar for 24 years, until PSR J1748-2446ad (which spins more than 700 times a second) was discovered.\n\nIn 2003, Marta Burgay and colleagues discovered the first double neutron star system where both components are detectable as pulsars, PSR J0737-3039. The discovery of this system allows a total of 5 different tests of general relativity, some of these with unprecedented precision.\n\nIn 2010, Paul Demorest and colleagues measured the mass of the millisecond pulsar PSR J1614–2230 to be , using Shapiro delay. This was substantially higher than any previously measured neutron star mass (, see PSR J1903+0327), and places strong constraints on the interior composition of neutron stars.\n\nIn 2013, John Antoniadis and colleagues measured the mass of PSR J0348+0432 to be , using white dwarf spectroscopy. This confirmed the existence of such massive stars using a different method. Furthermore, this allowed, for the first time, a test of general relativity using such a massive neutron star.\n\nIn August 2017, LIGO and Virgo made first detection of gravitational waves produced by colliding neutron stars.\n\nIn October 2018, astronomers reported that GRB 150101B, a gamma-ray burst event detected in 2015, may be directly related to the historic GW170817 and associated with the merger of two neutron stars. The similarities between the two events, in terms of gamma ray, optical and x-ray emissions, as well as to the nature of the associated host galaxies, are \"striking\", suggesting the two separate events may both be the result of the merger of neutron stars, and both may be a kilonova, which may be more common in the universe than previously understood, according to the researchers.\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "6187083", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6187083", "title": "Nucleon spin structure", "text": "Nucleon spin structure\n\nNucleon spin structure describes the partonic structure of nucleon (proton and neutron) intrinsic angular momentum (spin). The key question is how the nucleon's spin, whose magnitude is 1/2ħ, is carried by its constituent partons (quarks and gluons). It was originally expected before the 1980s that quarks carry all of the nucleon spin, but later experiments contradict this expectation. In the late 1980s, the European Muon Collaboration (EMC) conducted experiments that suggested the spin carried by quarks is not sufficient to account for the total spin of the nucleons. This finding astonished particle physicists at that time, and the problem of where the missing spin lies is sometimes referred to as the proton spin crisis.\n\nExperimental research on these topics has been continued by the Spin Muon Collaboration (SMC) and the COMPASS experiment at CERN, experiments E142, E143, E154 and E155 at SLAC, HERMES at DESY, experiments at JLab and RHIC, and others. Global analysis of data from all major experiments confirmed the original EMC discovery and showed that the quark spin did contribute about 30% to the total spin of the nucleon. A major topic of modern particle physics is to find the missing angular momentum, which is believed to be carried either by gluon spin, or by gluon and quark orbital angular momentum. This fact is expressed by the sum rule,\n\nThe gluon spin components formula_2 are being measured by many experiments. Quark and gluon angular momenta will be studied by measuring so-called generalized parton distributions (GPD) through deeply virtual compton scattering (DVCS) experiments, conducted at CERN (COMPASS) and at Jefferson Lab, among other laboratories.\n\n"}
{"id": "4990197", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4990197", "title": "Omicron Cancri", "text": "Omicron Cancri\n\nThe Bayer designation Omicron Cancri (ο Cnc / ο Cancri) is shared by two stars, in the constellation Cancer:\nThey are separated by 0.27° on the sky. With a physical separation of , the stars most likely form a co-moving pair.\n"}
{"id": "3171425", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3171425", "title": "Peroxynitrite", "text": "Peroxynitrite\n\nPeroxynitrite (sometimes called peroxonitrite) is an ion with the formula ONOO. It is an unstable structural isomer of nitrate, . Although its conjugate acid is highly reactive, peroxynitrite is stable in basic solutions. It is prepared by the reaction of hydrogen peroxide with nitrite:\n\nPeroxynitrite is an oxidant and nitrating agent. Because of its oxidizing properties, peroxynitrite can damage a wide array of molecules in cells, including DNA and proteins. Formation of peroxynitrite \"in vivo\" has been ascribed to the reaction of the free radical superoxide with the free radical nitric oxide:\n\nThe resultant pairing of these two free radicals results in peroxynitrite, a molecule that is itself not a free radical, but that is a powerful oxidant.\n\nIn the laboratory, a solution of peroxynitrite can be prepared by treating acidified hydrogen peroxide with a solution of sodium nitrite, followed by rapid addition of NaOH. Its concentration is indicated by the absorbance at 302 nm (pH 12, \"ε\" = 1670 M cm).\n\nONOO reacts nucleophilically with carbon dioxide. \"In vivo\", the concentration of carbon dioxide is about 1 mM, and its reaction with ONOO occurs quickly. Thus, under physiological conditions, the reaction of ONOO with carbon dioxide to form nitrosoperoxycarbonate () is by far the predominant pathway for ONOO. homolyzes to form carbonate radical and nitrogen dioxide, again as a pair of caged radicals. Approximately 66% of the time, these two radicals recombine to form carbon dioxide and nitrate. The other 33% of the time, these two radicals escape the solvent cage and become free radicals. It is these radicals (carbonate radical and nitrogen dioxide) that are believed to cause peroxynitrite-related cellular damage.\n\nPeroxynitrous acid (HNO) is a reactive nitrogen-containing species. It is the conjugate acid of peroxynitrite. It has a p\"K\" of ~6.8.\n\n"}
{"id": "51575621", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51575621", "title": "Phonotephrite", "text": "Phonotephrite\n\nPhonotephrite is a strongly alkaline volcanic rock with a composition between phonolite and tephrite. This unusual igneous rock contains 7 to 12% alkali content and 45 to 53% silica content (see TAS diagram). It can be described as a mafic phonolite or a potassic tephrite. Phonotephrite lava flows and volcanic cones have been identified in Antarctica, North America and Africa.\n\n"}
{"id": "2003406", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2003406", "title": "Photovoltaic effect", "text": "Photovoltaic effect\n\nThe photovoltaic effect is the creation of voltage and electric current in a material upon exposure to light and is a physical and chemical phenomenon.\n\nThe photovoltaic effect is closely related to the photoelectric effect. In either case, light is absorbed, causing excitation of an electron or other charge carrier to a higher-energy state. The main distinction is that the term \"photoelectric effect\" is now usually used when the electron is ejected out of the material (usually into a vacuum) and \"photovoltaic effect\" used when the excited charge carrier is still contained within the material. In either case, an electric potential (or voltage) is produced by the separation of charges, and the light has to have a sufficient energy to overcome the potential barrier for excitation. The physical essence of the difference is usually that photoelectric emission separates the charges by ballistic conduction and photovoltaic emission separates them by diffusion, but some \"hot carrier\" photovoltaic device concepts blur this distinction.\n\nThe first solar cell, consisting of a layer of selenium covered with a thin film of gold, was experimented by Charles Fritts in 1884, but it had a very poor efficiency. A demonstration of the photovoltaic effect in 1839 used an electrochemical cell, but the most familiar form of the photovoltaic effect in modern times though is in solid-state devices, mainly in photodiodes. When sunlight or other sufficiently energetic light is incident upon the photodiode, the electrons present in the valence band absorb energy and, being excited, jump to the conduction band and become free. These excited electrons diffuse, and some reach the rectifying junction (usually a p-n junction) where they are accelerated into a different material by a built-in potential ([Galvani potential]). This generates an electromotive force, and thus some of the light energy is converted into electric energy. The photovoltaic effect can also occur when two photons are absorbed simultaneously in a process called two-photon photovoltaic effect...\n\nThe photovoltaic effect was first observed by French physicist A. E. Becquerel in 1839. He explained his discovery in \"Comptes rendus de l'Académie des sciences\", \"the production of an electric current when two plates of platinum or gold immersed in an acid, neutral, or alkaline solution are exposed in an uneven way to solar radiation.\"\n\nBesides the direct excitation of free electrons, a photovoltaic effect can also arise simply due to the heating caused by absorption of the light. The heating leads to an increase in temperature, which is accompanied by temperature gradients. These thermal gradients in turn may generate a voltage through the Seebeck effect. Whether direct excitation or thermal effects dominate the photovoltaic effect will depend on many material parameters.\n\nIn most photovoltaic applications the radiation is sunlight, and the devices are called solar cells. In the case of a p-n junction solar cell, illuminating the material creates an electric current as excited electrons and the remaining holes are swept in different directions by the built-in electric field of the depletion region.\n\n"}
{"id": "29645495", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29645495", "title": "Puerto Rican moist forests", "text": "Puerto Rican moist forests\n\nThe Puerto Rican moist forests are a tropical moist broadleaf forest ecoregion in Puerto Rico. They cover an area of .\n\nLowland forests are found throughout the island's coastal lowlands except for the dry southwest. Characteristic tree species include \"Hymenaea courbaril\", Palma de Coroso (\"Acrocomia media\"), \"Nectandra coriacea\", and \"Zanthoxylum martinicense\". Trees reach a height of in the northern portions, but are shorter elsewhere.\nSeveral species are adapted to dry periods by being deciduous or semi-deciduous.\n\nMontane forests cover the Sierra de Luquillo and the higher peaks of the Cordillera Central. Trees at middle elevations reach a height of and a diameter of . Common trees of the Sierra de Luquillo include \"Cyathea arborea\", \"Prestoea acuminata\", \"Cecropia peltata\", and \"Ocotea\" species. \"Weinmannia pinnata\", \"Brunellia comocladiifolia\", and \"Podocarpus coriaceus\" are found in the cloud forests of the highest peaks.\n\nPuerto Rican moist forests are home to a variety of endemic animal species such as the critically endangered Puerto Rican amazon (\"Amazona vittata\") and coquís (\"Eleutherodactylus\" spp.). Limestone forests are rich in land snail diversity, with many species restricted to small areas.\n\nAs with most mountainous areas, the forest types change with elevation, exposure and rock type. Superimposed upon these physical factors are forms of natural disturbance such as landslides and hurricanes that allow light-demanding plant species to regenerate. A study in the Luqillo Mountains found that between 1936 and 1988, there were 46 landslides associated with heavy rain, and these created gaps that allowed ferns such as \"Dicranopteris pectitnata\" to proliferate.\n\n"}
{"id": "25856", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25856", "title": "Radiation", "text": "Radiation\n\nIn physics, radiation is the emission or transmission of energy in the form of waves or particles through space or through a material medium. This includes:\n\nRadiation is often categorized as either ionizing or non-ionizing depending on the energy of the radiated particles. Ionizing radiation carries more than 10 eV, which is enough to ionize atoms and molecules, and break chemical bonds. This is an important distinction due to the large difference in harmfulness to living organisms. A common source of ionizing radiation is radioactive materials that emit α, β, or γ radiation, consisting of helium nuclei, electrons or positrons, and photons, respectively. Other sources include X-rays from medical radiography examinations and muons, mesons, positrons, neutrons and other particles that constitute the secondary cosmic rays that are produced after primary cosmic rays interact with Earth's atmosphere.\n\nGamma rays, X-rays and the higher energy range of ultraviolet light constitute the ionizing part of the electromagnetic spectrum. The word \"ionize\" refers to the breaking of one or more electrons away from an atom, an action that requires the relatively high energies that these electromagnetic waves supply. Further down the spectrum, the non-ionizing lower energies of the lower ultraviolet spectrum cannot ionize atoms, but can disrupt the inter-atomic bonds which form molecules, thereby breaking down molecules rather than atoms; a good example of this is sunburn caused by long-wavelength solar ultraviolet. The waves of longer wavelength than UV in visible light, infrared and microwave frequencies cannot break bonds but can cause vibrations in the bonds which are sensed as heat. Radio wavelengths and below generally are not regarded as harmful to biological systems. These are not sharp delineations of the energies; there is some overlap in the effects of specific frequencies.\n\nThe word radiation arises from the phenomenon of waves \"radiating\" (i.e., traveling outward in all directions) from a source. This aspect leads to a system of measurements and physical units that are applicable to all types of radiation. Because such radiation expands as it passes through space, and as its energy is conserved (in vacuum), the intensity of all types of radiation from a point source follows an inverse-square law in relation to the distance from its source. Like any ideal law, the inverse-square law approximates a measured radiation intensity to the extent that the source approximates a geometric point.\n\nRadiation with sufficiently high energy can ionize atoms; that is to say it can knock electrons off atoms, creating ions. Ionization occurs when an electron is stripped (or \"knocked out\") from an electron shell of the atom, which leaves the atom with a net positive charge. Because living cells and, more importantly, the DNA in those cells can be damaged by this ionization, exposure to ionizing radiation is considered to increase the risk of cancer. Thus \"ionizing radiation\" is somewhat artificially separated from particle radiation and electromagnetic radiation, simply due to its great potential for biological damage. While an individual cell is made of trillions of atoms, only a small fraction of those will be ionized at low to moderate radiation powers. The probability of ionizing radiation causing cancer is dependent upon the absorbed dose of the radiation, and is a function of the damaging tendency of the type of radiation (equivalent dose) and the sensitivity of the irradiated organism or tissue (effective dose).\n\nIf the source of the ionizing radiation is a radioactive material or a nuclear process such as fission or fusion, there is particle radiation to consider. Particle radiation is subatomic particles accelerated to relativistic speeds by nuclear reactions. Because of their momenta they are quite capable of knocking out electrons and ionizing materials, but since most have an electrical charge, they don't have the penetrating power of ionizing radiation. The exception is neutron particles; see below. There are several different kinds of these particles, but the majority are alpha particles, beta particles, neutrons, and protons. Roughly speaking, photons and particles with energies above about 10 electron volts (eV) are ionizing (some authorities use 33 eV, the ionization energy for water). Particle radiation from radioactive material or cosmic rays almost invariably carries enough energy to be ionizing.\n\nMost ionizing radiation originates from radioactive materials and space (cosmic rays), and as such is naturally present in the environment, since most rocks and soil have small concentrations of radioactive materials. Since this radiation is invisible and not directly detectable by human senses, instruments such as Geiger counters are usually required to detect its presence. In some cases, it may lead to secondary emission of visible light upon its interaction with matter, as in the case of Cherenkov radiation and radio-luminescence. \nIonizing radiation has many practical uses in medicine, research and construction, but presents a health hazard if used improperly. Exposure to radiation causes damage to living tissue; high doses result in Acute radiation syndrome (ARS), with skin burns, hair loss, internal organ failure and death, while any dose may result in an increased chance of cancer and genetic damage; a particular form of cancer, thyroid cancer, often occurs when nuclear weapons and reactors are the radiation source because of the biological proclivities of the radioactive iodine fission product, iodine-131. However, calculating the exact risk and chance of cancer forming in cells caused by ionizing radiation is still not well understood and currently estimates are loosely determined by population based data from the atomic bombings of Hiroshima and Nagasaki and from follow-up of reactor accidents, such as the Chernobyl disaster. The International Commission on Radiological Protection states that \"The Commission is aware of uncertainties and lack of precision of the models and parameter values\", \"Collective effective dose is not intended as a tool for epidemiological risk assessment, and it is inappropriate to use it in risk projections\" and \"in particular, the calculation of the number of cancer deaths based on collective effective doses from trivial individual doses should be avoided.\"\n\nUltraviolet, of wavelengths from 10 nm to 125 nm, ionizes air molecules, causing it to be strongly absorbed by air and by ozone (O) in particular. Ionizing UV therefore does not penetrate Earth's atmosphere to a significant degree, and is sometimes referred to as vacuum ultraviolet. Although present in space, this part of the UV spectrum is not of biological importance, because it does not reach living organisms on Earth.\n\nThere is a zone of the atmosphere in which ozone absorbs some 98% of non-ionizing but dangerous UV-C and UV-B. This so-called ozone layer starts at about and extends upward. Some of the ultraviolet spectrum that does reach the ground (the part that begins above energies of 3.1 eV, a wavelength less than 400 nm) is non-ionizing, but is still biologically hazardous due to the ability of single photons of this energy to cause electronic excitation in biological molecules, and thus damage them by means of unwanted reactions. An example is the formation of pyrimidine dimers in DNA, which begins at wavelengths below 365 nm (3.4 eV), which is well below ionization energy. This property gives the ultraviolet spectrum some of the dangers of ionizing radiation in biological systems without actual ionization occurring. In contrast, visible light and longer-wavelength electromagnetic radiation, such as infrared, microwaves, and radio waves, consists of photons with too little energy to cause damaging molecular excitation, and thus this radiation is far less hazardous per unit of energy.\n\nX-rays are electromagnetic waves with a wavelength less than about 10 m (greater than 3x10 Hz and 1,240 eV). A smaller wavelength corresponds to a higher energy according to the equation E=hc/λ. (\"E\" is Energy; \"h\" is Planck's constant; \"c\" is the speed of light; \"λ\" is wavelength.) When an X-ray photon collides with an atom, the atom may absorb the energy of the photon and boost an electron to a higher orbital level or if the photon is very energetic, it may knock an electron from the atom altogether, causing the atom to ionize. Generally, larger atoms are more likely to absorb an X-ray photon since they have greater energy differences between orbital electrons. Soft tissue in the human body is composed of smaller atoms than the calcium atoms that make up bone, hence there is a contrast in the absorption of X-rays. X-ray machines are specifically designed to take advantage of the absorption difference between bone and soft tissue, allowing physicians to examine structure in the human body.\n\nX-rays are also totally absorbed by the thickness of the earth's atmosphere, resulting in the prevention of the X-ray output of the sun, smaller in quantity than that of UV but nonetheless powerful, from reaching the surface.\n\nGamma (γ) radiation consists of photons with a wavelength less than 3x10 meters (greater than 10 Hz and 41.4 keV). Gamma radiation emission is a nuclear process that occurs to rid an unstable nucleus of excess energy after most nuclear reactions. Both alpha and beta particles have an electric charge and mass, and thus are quite likely to interact with other atoms in their path. Gamma radiation, however, is composed of photons, which have neither mass nor electric charge and, as a result, penetrates much further through matter than either alpha or beta radiation.\n\nGamma rays can be stopped by a sufficiently thick or dense layer of material, where the stopping power of the material per given area depends mostly (but not entirely) on the total mass along the path of the radiation, regardless of whether the material is of high or low density. However, as is the case with X-rays, materials with high atomic number such as lead or depleted uranium add a modest (typically 20% to 30%) amount of stopping power over an equal mass of less dense and lower atomic weight materials (such as water or concrete). The atmosphere absorbs all gamma rays approaching Earth from space. Even air is capable of absorbing gamma rays, halving the energy of such waves by passing through, on the average, .\n\nAlpha particles are helium-4 nuclei (two protons and two neutrons). They interact with matter strongly due to their charges and combined mass, and at their usual velocities only penetrate a few centimeters of air, or a few millimeters of low density material (such as the thin mica material which is specially placed in some Geiger counter tubes to allow alpha particles in). This means that alpha particles from ordinary alpha decay do not penetrate the outer layers of dead skin cells and cause no damage to the live tissues below. Some very high energy alpha particles compose about 10% of cosmic rays, and these are capable of penetrating the body and even thin metal plates. However, they are of danger only to astronauts, since they are deflected by the Earth's magnetic field and then stopped by its atmosphere.\n\nAlpha radiation is dangerous when alpha-emitting radioisotopes are ingested or inhaled (breathed or swallowed). This brings the radioisotope close enough to sensitive live tissue for the alpha radiation to damage cells. Per unit of energy, alpha particles are at least 20 times more effective at cell-damage as gamma rays and X-rays. See relative biological effectiveness for a discussion of this. Examples of highly poisonous alpha-emitters are all isotopes of radium, radon, and polonium, due to the amount of decay that occur in these short half-life materials.\n\nBeta-minus (β) radiation consists of an energetic electron. It is more penetrating than alpha radiation, but less than gamma. Beta radiation from radioactive decay can be stopped with a few centimeters of plastic or a few millimeters of metal. It occurs when a neutron decays into a proton in a nucleus, releasing the beta particle and an antineutrino. Beta radiation from linac accelerators is far more energetic and penetrating than natural beta radiation. It is sometimes used therapeutically in radiotherapy to treat superficial tumors.\n\nBeta-plus (β) radiation is the emission of positrons, which are the antimatter form of electrons. When a positron slows to speeds similar to those of electrons in the material, the positron will annihilate an electron, releasing two gamma photons of 511 keV in the process. Those two gamma photons will be traveling in (approximately) opposite direction. The gamma radiation from positron annihilation consists of high energy photons, and is also ionizing.\n\nNeutrons are categorized according to their speed/energy. Neutron radiation consists of free neutrons. These neutrons may be emitted during either spontaneous or induced nuclear fission. Neutrons are rare radiation particles; they are produced in large numbers only where chain reaction fission or fusion reactions are active; this happens for about 10 microseconds in a thermonuclear explosion, or continuously inside an operating nuclear reactor; production of the neutrons stops almost immediately in the reactor when it goes non-critical.\n\nNeutrons are the only type of ionizing radiation that can make other objects, or material, radioactive. This process, called neutron activation, is the primary method used to produce radioactive sources for use in medical, academic, and industrial applications. Even comparatively low speed thermal neutrons cause neutron activation (in fact, they cause it more efficiently). Neutrons do not ionize atoms in the same way that charged particles such as protons and electrons do (by the excitation of an electron), because neutrons have no charge. It is through their absorption by nuclei which then become unstable that they cause ionization. Hence, neutrons are said to be \"indirectly ionizing.\" Even neutrons without significant kinetic energy are indirectly ionizing, and are thus a significant radiation hazard. Not all materials are capable of neutron activation; in water, for example, the most common isotopes of both types atoms present (hydrogen and oxygen) capture neutrons and become heavier but remain stable forms of those atoms. Only the absorption of more than one neutron, a statistically rare occurrence, can activate a hydrogen atom, while oxygen requires two additional absorptions. Thus water is only very weakly capable of activation. The sodium in salt (as in sea water), on the other hand, need only absorb a single neutron to become Na-24, a very intense source of beta decay, with half-life of 15 hours.\n\nIn addition, high-energy (high-speed) neutrons have the ability to directly ionize atoms. One mechanism by which high energy neutrons ionize atoms is to strike the nucleus of an atom and knock the atom out of a molecule, leaving one or more electrons behind as the chemical bond is broken. This leads to production of chemical free radicals. In addition, very high energy neutrons can cause ionizing radiation by \"neutron spallation\" or knockout, wherein neutrons cause emission of high-energy protons from atomic nuclei (especially hydrogen nuclei) on impact. The last process imparts most of the neutron's energy to the proton, much like one billiard ball striking another. The charged protons and other products from such reactions are directly ionizing.\n\nHigh-energy neutrons are very penetrating and can travel great distances in air (hundreds or even thousands of meters) and moderate distances (several meters) in common solids. They typically require hydrogen rich shielding, such as concrete or water, to block them within distances of less than a meter. A common source of neutron radiation occurs inside a nuclear reactor, where a meters-thick water layer is used as effective shielding.\n\nThere are two sources of high energy particles entering the Earth's atmosphere from outer space: the sun and deep space. The sun continuously emits particles, primarily free protons, in the solar wind, and occasionally augments the flow hugely with coronal mass ejections (CME).\n\nThe particles from deep space (inter- and extra-galactic) are much less frequent, but of much higher energies. These particles are also mostly protons, with much of the remainder consisting of helions (alpha particles). A few completely ionized nuclei of heavier elements are present. The origin of these galactic cosmic rays is not yet well understood, but they seem to be remnants of supernovae and especially gamma-ray bursts (GRB), which feature magnetic fields capable of the huge accelerations measured from these particles. They may also be generated by quasars, which are galaxy-wide jet phenomena similar to GRBs but known for their much larger size, and which seem to be a violent part of the universe's early history.\n\nThe kinetic energy of particles of non-ionizing radiation is too small to produce charged ions when passing through matter. For non-ionizing electromagnetic radiation (see types below), the associated particles (photons) have only sufficient energy to change the rotational, vibrational or electronic valence configurations of molecules and atoms. The effect of non-ionizing forms of radiation on living tissue has only recently been studied. Nevertheless, different biological effects are observed for different types of non-ionizing radiation.\n\nEven \"non-ionizing\" radiation is capable of causing thermal-ionization if it deposits enough heat to raise temperatures to ionization energies. These reactions occur at far higher energies than with ionization radiation, which requires only single particles to cause ionization. A familiar example of thermal ionization is the flame-ionization of a common fire, and the browning reactions in common food items induced by infrared radiation, during broiling-type cooking.\n\nThe electromagnetic spectrum is the range of all possible electromagnetic radiation frequencies. The electromagnetic spectrum (usually just spectrum) of an object is the characteristic distribution of electromagnetic radiation emitted by, or absorbed by, that particular object.\n\nThe non-ionizing portion of electromagnetic radiation consists of electromagnetic waves that (as individual quanta or particles, see photon) are not energetic enough to detach electrons from atoms or molecules and hence cause their ionization. These include radio waves, microwaves, infrared, and (sometimes) visible light. The lower frequencies of ultraviolet light may cause chemical changes and molecular damage similar to ionization, but is technically not ionizing. The highest frequencies of ultraviolet light, as well as all X-rays and gamma-rays are ionizing.\n\nThe occurrence of ionization depends on the energy of the individual particles or waves, and not on their number. An intense flood of particles or waves will not cause ionization if these particles or waves do not carry enough energy to be ionizing, unless they raise the temperature of a body to a point high enough to ionize small fractions of atoms or molecules by the process of thermal-ionization (this, however, requires relatively extreme radiation intensities).\n\nAs noted above, the lower part of the spectrum of ultraviolet, called soft UV, from 3 eV to about 10 eV, is non-ionizing. However, the effects of non-ionizing ultraviolet on chemistry and the damage to biological systems exposed to it (including oxidation, mutation, and cancer) are such that even this part of ultraviolet is often compared with ionizing radiation.\n\nLight, or visible light, is a very narrow range of electromagnetic radiation of a wavelength that is visible to the human eye, or 380–750 nm which equates to a frequency range of 790 to 400 THz respectively. More broadly, physicists use the term \"light\" to mean electromagnetic radiation of all wavelengths, whether visible or not.\n\nInfrared (IR) light is electromagnetic radiation with a wavelength between 0.7 and 300 micrometers, which corresponds to a frequency range between 430 and 1 THz respectively. IR wavelengths are longer than that of visible light, but shorter than that of microwaves. Infrared may be detected at a distance from the radiating objects by \"feel.\" Infrared sensing snakes can detect and focus infrared by use of a pinhole lens in their heads, called \"pits\". Bright sunlight provides an irradiance of just over 1 kilowatt per square meter at sea level. Of this energy, 53% is infrared radiation, 44% is visible light, and 3% is ultraviolet radiation.\n\nMicrowaves are electromagnetic waves with wavelengths ranging from as short as one millimeter to as long as one meter, which equates to a frequency range of 300 MHz to 300 GHz. This broad definition includes both UHF and EHF (millimeter waves), but various sources use different other limits. In all cases, microwaves include the entire super high frequency band (3 to 30 GHz, or 10 to 1 cm) at minimum, with RF engineering often putting the lower boundary at 1 GHz (30 cm), and the upper around 100 GHz (3mm).\n\nRadio waves are a type of electromagnetic radiation with wavelengths in the electromagnetic spectrum longer than infrared light. Like all other electromagnetic waves, they travel at the speed of light. Naturally occurring radio waves are made by lightning, or by certain astronomical objects. Artificially generated radio waves are used for fixed and mobile radio communication, broadcasting, radar and other navigation systems, satellite communication, computer networks and innumerable other applications. In addition, almost any wire carrying alternating current will radiate some of the energy away as radio waves; these are mostly termed interference. Different frequencies of radio waves have different propagation characteristics in the Earth's atmosphere; long waves may bend at the rate of the curvature of the Earth and may cover a part of the Earth very consistently, shorter waves travel around the world by multiple reflections off the ionosphere and the Earth. Much shorter wavelengths bend or reflect very little and travel along the line of sight.\n\nVery low frequency (VLF) refers to a frequency range of 30 Hz to 3 kHz which corresponds to wavelengths of 100,000 to 10,000 meters respectively. Since there is not much bandwidth in this range of the radio spectrum, only the very simplest signals can be transmitted, such as for radio navigation. Also known as the myriameter band or myriameter wave as the wavelengths range from ten to one myriameter (an obsolete metric unit equal to 10 kilometers).\n\nExtremely low frequency (ELF) is radiation frequencies from 3 to 30 Hz (10 to 10 meters respectively). In atmosphere science, an alternative definition is usually given, from 3 Hz to 3 kHz. In the related magnetosphere science, the lower frequency electromagnetic oscillations (pulsations occurring below ~3 Hz) are considered to lie in the ULF range, which is thus also defined differently from the ITU Radio Bands. A massive military ELF antenna in Michigan radiates very slow messages to otherwise unreachable receivers, such as submerged submarines.\n\nThermal radiation is a common synonym for infrared radiation emitted by objects at temperatures often encountered on Earth. Thermal radiation refers not only to the radiation itself, but also the process by which the surface of an object radiates its thermal energy in the form of black body radiation. Infrared or red radiation from a common household radiator or electric heater is an example of thermal radiation, as is the heat emitted by an operating incandescent light bulb. Thermal radiation is generated when energy from the movement of charged particles within atoms is converted to electromagnetic radiation.\n\nAs noted above, even low-frequency thermal radiation may cause temperature-ionization whenever it deposits sufficient thermal energy to raises temperatures to a high enough level. Common examples of this are the ionization (plasma) seen in common flames, and the molecular changes caused by the \"browning\" during food-cooking, which is a chemical process that begins with a large component of ionization.\n\n\"Black-body radiation\" is an idealized spectrum of radiation emitted by a body that is at a uniform temperature. The shape of the spectrum and the total amount of energy emitted by the body is a function of the absolute temperature of that body. The radiation emitted covers the entire electromagnetic spectrum and the intensity of the radiation (power/unit-area) at a given frequency is described by Planck's law of radiation. For a given temperature of a black-body there is a particular frequency at which the radiation emitted is at its maximum intensity. That maximum radiation frequency moves toward higher frequencies as the temperature of the body increases. The frequency at which the black-body radiation is at maximum is given by Wien's displacement law and is a function of the body's absolute temperature. A black-body is one that emits at any temperature the maximum possible amount of radiation at any given wavelength. A black-body will also absorb the maximum possible incident radiation at any given wavelength. A black-body with a temperature at or below room temperature would thus appear absolutely black, as it would not reflect any incident light nor would it emit enough radiation at visible wavelengths for our eyes to detect. Theoretically, a black-body emits electromagnetic radiation over the entire spectrum from very low frequency radio waves to x-rays, creating a continuum of radiation.\n\nThe color of a radiating black-body tells the temperature of its radiating surface. It is responsible for the color of stars, which vary from infrared through red (2,500K), to yellow (5,800K), to white and to blue-white (15,000K) as the peak radiance passes through those points in the visible spectrum. When the peak is below the visible spectrum the body is black, while when it is above the body is blue-white, since all the visible colors are represented from blue decreasing to red.\n\nElectromagnetic radiation of wavelengths other than visible light were discovered in the early 19th century. The discovery of infrared radiation is ascribed to William Herschel, the astronomer. Herschel published his results in 1800 before the Royal Society of London. Herschel, like Ritter, used a prism to refract light from the Sun and detected the infrared (beyond the red part of the spectrum), through an increase in the temperature recorded by a thermometer.\n\nIn 1801, the German physicist Johann Wilhelm Ritter made the discovery of ultraviolet by noting that the rays from a prism darkened silver chloride preparations more quickly than violet light. Ritter's experiments were an early precursor to what would become photography. Ritter noted that the UV rays were capable of causing chemical reactions.\n\nThe first radio waves detected were not from a natural source, but were produced deliberately and artificially by the German scientist Heinrich Hertz in 1887, using electrical circuits calculated to produce oscillations in the radio frequency range, following formulas suggested by the equations of James Clerk Maxwell.\n\nWilhelm Röntgen discovered and named X-rays. While experimenting with high voltages applied to an evacuated tube on 8 November 1895, he noticed a fluorescence on a nearby plate of coated glass. Within a month, he discovered the main properties of X-rays that we understand to this day.\n\nIn 1896, Henri Becquerel found that rays emanating from certain minerals penetrated black paper and caused fogging of an unexposed photographic plate. His doctoral student Marie Curie discovered that only certain chemical elements gave off these rays of energy. She named this behavior radioactivity.\n\nAlpha rays (alpha particles) and beta rays (beta particles) were differentiated by Ernest Rutherford through simple experimentation in 1899. Rutherford used a generic pitchblende radioactive source and determined that the rays produced by the source had differing penetrations in materials. One type had short penetration (it was stopped by paper) and a positive charge, which Rutherford named \"alpha rays.\" The other was more penetrating (able to expose film through paper but not metal) and had a negative charge, and this type Rutherford named \"beta.\" This was the radiation that had been first detected by Becquerel from uranium salts. In 1900, the French scientist Paul Villard discovered a third neutrally charged and especially penetrating type of radiation from radium, and after he described it, Rutherford realized it must be yet a third type of radiation, which in 1903 Rutherford named gamma rays.\n\nHenri Becquerel himself proved that beta rays are fast electrons, while Rutherford and Thomas Royds proved in 1909 that alpha particles are ionized helium. Rutherford and Edward Andrade proved in 1914 that gamma rays are like X-rays, but with shorter wavelengths.\n\nCosmic ray radiations striking the Earth from outer space were finally definitively recognized and proven to exist in 1912, as the scientist Victor Hess carried an electrometer to various altitudes in a free balloon flight. The nature of these radiations was only gradually understood in later years.\n\nNeutron radiation was discovered with the neutron by Chadwick, in 1932. A number of other high energy particulate radiations such as positrons, muons, and pions were discovered by cloud chamber examination of cosmic ray reactions shortly thereafter, and others types of particle radiation were produced artificially in particle accelerators, through the last half of the twentieth century.\n\nRadiation and radioactive substances are used for diagnosis, treatment, and research. X-rays, for example, pass through muscles and other soft tissue but are stopped by dense materials. This property of X-rays enables doctors to find broken bones and to locate cancers that might be growing in the body. Doctors also find certain diseases by injecting a radioactive substance and monitoring the radiation given off as the substance moves through the body. Radiation used for cancer treatment is called ionizing radiation because it forms ions in the cells of the tissues it passes through as it dislodges electrons from atoms. This can kill cells or change genes so the cells cannot grow. Other forms of radiation such as radio waves, microwaves, and light waves are called non-ionizing. They don't have as much energy and are not able to ionize cells.\n\nAll modern communication systems use forms of electromagnetic radiation. Variations in the intensity of the radiation represent changes in the sound, pictures, or other information being transmitted. For example, a human voice can be sent as a radio wave or microwave by making the wave vary to corresponding variations in the voice. Musicians have also experimented with gamma sonification, or using nuclear radiation, to produce sound and music.\n\nResearchers use radioactive atoms to determine the age of materials that were once part of a living organism. The age of such materials can be estimated by measuring the amount of radioactive carbon they contain in a process called radiocarbon dating. Similarly, using other radioactive elements, the age of rocks and other geological features (even some man-made objects) can be determined; this is called Radiometric dating. Environmental scientists use radioactive atoms, known as tracer atoms, to identify the pathways taken by pollutants through the environment.\n\nRadiation is used to determine the composition of materials in a process called neutron activation analysis. In this process, scientists bombard a sample of a substance with particles called neutrons. Some of the atoms in the sample absorb neutrons and become radioactive. The scientists can identify the elements in the sample by studying the emitted radiation.\n\n"}
{"id": "42314984", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42314984", "title": "Randers Fjord", "text": "Randers Fjord\n\nRanders Fjord is a long Danish fjord in Northern Europe leading to the sea of Kattegat, between Denmark and Sweden. The fjord is the outlet from Denmark's longest river, Gudenaa. The upper , starting at the town Randers, looks more like a broad river than a fjord. The lower have extensive reed plains bordering the shores To some extent this inhibits the recreational use of and access to the fjord. In some places, the reed beds are harvested for traditional roof thatching.\nTwo small ferries cross Randers Fjord regularly. One is located half way between Randers and the sea, at the small village of Voer, with a capacity of 3 - 4 cars, crossing the fjord to Mellerup. The other ferry at Udbyhøj is close to Randers Fjords outlet to the sea. This a cable ferry with a capacity of 12 cars. At the town of Randers, the first bridge crosses the fjord, at the point where it becomes the river Gudenåen. The fjord is navigable for coasters up to Randers.\n\nRanders Fjord is one of eight lowland fjords on the eastern side of the 250 km long Danish main peninsula, Jutland. Jutland protrudes north from Germany in central Europe. The neighboring fjords to Randers Fjord are, Mariager Fjord, 15 km to the north, and, Horsens Fjord, 50 km to the south.\n\nAnglers from Denmark, as well as from other countries, such as Germany and the Netherlands, travel to Voer in Randers Fjord to catch herring in the season. The season starts in spring and continues throughout summer and autumn. At Voer there is a reed free stretch of bulwark in connection with a shipping channel close to the shore, where the water gets deep fast making it suitable for angling. This relatively deep and narrow stretch also tends to concentrates shoals of herring. Access by car is easy, with space for parking along a dam and unpaved road following the shore a couple of kilometers down from Voer.\n\nFor anglers the small marinas a couple of km up from Voer in, Uggelhuse, are also interesting, as fresh water fish, not least, \"perch\", can gather in the marinas to avoid salt water intrusion from the sea in combination with incoming tides. Usually the tidal difference in Randers Fjord is less than 30 cm – one foot.\n\nAt Voer lies the \"Coast and Fjord Centre\", (Kyst- og Fjordcentret, in Danish) a nature centre with exhibitions, conference- and accommodation-facilities aimed at informing and teaching about nature and outdoor activities related to Randers Fjord, including the fjords history. At the visiting centre it is also possible to rent boats and to participate in waders-based sessions in the fjord, aimed at various kinds of groups, such as school-classes. \n\nRanders Fjord constitutes the north-west border of the circa 40 km x 40 km peninsula Djursland, a region in Denmark where coastal tourism is a factor. Djursland has 22 sandy beaches located on the three-sided 260 km coastline with in the order of 7.000 adjoining summer-, and out of season-, rentals, primarily situated close to the coast and beaches. All coastlines in Denmark are accessible to the public by law.\n\"Djursland\" has an average population density of 42 inhabitants per square km, as compared to 407 for England and 230 for Germany. Randers at the end of Randers fjord is Denmarks 6. largest town with 60.895 inhabitants. Denmark has a total population of 5.6 million people. The language is Danish, with many inhabitants having a working knowledge of English and also to some extent German - the two main languages taught in schools.\n\nThe Innermost part of the Fjord from Voer is part of a Natura 2000-protected area \"nr. 14 Ålborg Bugt, Randers Fjord og Mariager Fjord\" and is both a Ramsarhabitat and a bird protection area.\n\nDuring the Napoleonic Wars, when Denmark and Britain were on opposite sides, Denmark established 214 coastal defence works at strategic points. One of these was at Udbyhøj at the mouth of Randers Fjord, where a total of ten cannon were sited in two gun emplacements north and south of the fjord entrance. Four gunboats and a unit of cavalry completed the defences.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "15900261", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15900261", "title": "Smart rubber", "text": "Smart rubber\n\nSmart rubber is a polymeric material that is able to \"heal\" when torn. Near room temperature this process is reversible and can be cycled several times. Supramolecular self-healing rubber can be processed, re-used, and ultimately recycled. The edges of a tear can be held together, and they will simply re-bond into apparent solidity. This is done by utilizing a hydrogen-bonding polymer, rather than producing a material whose structure would depend on covalent bonding and ionic bonding between chains, which is typical of normal rubber. In this case hydrogen bonding can occur simply by pressing two faces of the substance together, allowing the recovery of a continuous hydrogen bonding network.\n\nSmart rubber will recover its original mechanical strength within several hours of being split and then subsequently recombined. Residual hydrogen bond donors and acceptors responsible for the self-healing properties of the elastomer remain unpaired until the newly exposed surface comes in contact with another complimentary surface, allowing formation of new intermolecular hydrogen bonds.\n\nWhen compared to rubber, which is covalently cross-linked, smart rubber cannot continually hold mechanical stress without undergoing gradual plastic deformation, and strain recovery is typically slow.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2336903", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2336903", "title": "Sociology of architecture", "text": "Sociology of architecture\n\nSociology of architecture is the sociological study of the built environment and the role and occupation of architects in modern societies.\n\nArchitecture is basically constituted of the aesthetic, the engineering and the social aspects. The built environment which is made up of designed spaces and the activities of people are inter-related and inseparable. It is for us to understand this interrelationship and put it down appropriately on paper.\nSocial institutions are many and these social institutions sometimes need functional spaces to allow the people using the building to benefit from all aspects of both, the purpose of what inhabits the building and by the varied structure and organized flow of communication. The way the buildings are designed to fulfill the needs of these social institutions /social requirements can be said to be the compliance of social aspects in architecture.\n\nArchitecture is the visual shape (\"Gestalt\") of society. And within that, all the various building types (architecture of consumption, of mobility, of the political and religious, as well as factories, prisons, cinema buildings, etc.) could become objects of architectural sociology. For example: how a specific architecture 'expresses' the structure and principles of a given society.\n\nSuch sociological analysis of architecture can be found in the classic authors of sociology in Marcel Mauss, Walter Benjamin, Norbert Elias, Michel Foucault, Ernst Bloch, Siegfried Kracauer, Pierre Bourdieu, Maurice Halbwachs, Karel Teige and others.\n\nThe sociology of technology offers approaches to a sociology of (architectonic) artifacts. Initially, this sociology is interested in technical matters. While buildings (as art and technic) are not in the core of this discipline. The perspective of architecture as artifact would be the question of 'interactions' between architecture and subject: how a very specific architecture suggests certain ways, movements, perceptions.\n\nThe term \"social space\" is used by Pierre Bourdieu and others (in contrast to architecture or built environment) in a more abstract sense: as social constituted spatial structures. Georg Simmel founded such a sociology of space and always watched the architecture of society.\n\nSimmel unfolded also an urban sociology (his articles were read in Chicago school): in his question of the specific ways of life in big cities ( \"Big cities and life of spirit\", 1903). Urban sociology primarily deals with social structures \"within\" the city: their points are for instance processes of segregation, urbanization and the decline of cities. Recently, there is a research focus on \"differences of cities\", which will be more associated with a sociology of architecture. Ronald Daus is introducing new concepts in this area, studying the history of extra-European Megacities.\n\n"}
{"id": "56723918", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56723918", "title": "Superwind", "text": "Superwind\n\nA superwind is an extremely dense wind emanating from asymptotic giant branch stars towards the end of their lives.\n"}
{"id": "78547", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=78547", "title": "Temperate grasslands, savannas, and shrublands", "text": "Temperate grasslands, savannas, and shrublands\n\nTemperate grasslands, savannahs, and shrublands are terrestrial biomes whose predominant vegetation consists of grass and/or shrubs. The climate is temperate and ranges from semi-arid to semi-humid.\n\n\nSteppes/shortgrass prairies are short grasslands that occur in semi-arid climates. Tallgrass prairies are tall grasslands in areas of higher rainfall. Heaths and pastures are, respectively, low shrublands and grasslands where forest growth is hindered by human activity but not the climate.\n\nTall grasslands, including the tallgrass prairie of North America, the north-western parts of Eurasian steppe (Ukraine and south of Russia) and the Humid Pampas of Argentina, have moderate rainfall and rich soils which make them ideally suited to extensive agriculture, and tall grassland ecoregions include some of the most productive grain-growing regions in the world.\n\nSavannas are areas with both grass and trees, but the trees do not form a canopy as they would in a forest.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "449659", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=449659", "title": "Temple at Uppsala", "text": "Temple at Uppsala\n\nThe Temple at Uppsala was a religious center in the ancient Norse religion once located at what is now Gamla Uppsala (Swedish \"Old Uppsala\"), Sweden attested in Adam of Bremen's 11th-century work \"Gesta Hammaburgensis ecclesiae pontificum\" and in \"Heimskringla\", written by Snorri Sturluson in the 13th century. Theories have been proposed about the implications of the descriptions of the temple and the findings (or lack thereof) of the archaeological excavations in the area, along with recent findings of extensive wooden structures and log lines that may have played a supporting role to activities at the site, including ritual sacrifice.\n\nIn \"Gesta Hammaburgensis ecclesiae pontificum\", Adam of Bremen provides a description of the temple. Adam records that a \"very famous temple called Ubsola\" exists in a town close to Sigtuna. Adam details that the temple is \"adorned with gold\" and that the people there worship statues of three specific gods that sit on a triple throne. Thor, whom Adam refers to as \"the mightiest,\" sits in the central throne, while Wodan (Odin) and Fricco (Freyr) are seated on the thrones to the sides of him. Adam provides information about the characteristics of the three gods, including that Fricco is depicted with an immense erect penis, Wodan in armor (\"as our people depict Mars,\" Adam notes) and that Thor has a mace, a detail which Adam compares to that of the Roman god Jupiter. Adam adds that, in addition, \"they also worship gods who were once men, whom they reckon to be immortal because of their heroic acts [...].\"\n\nAdam says that the three gods have a priest appointed to them each who offer up sacrifices to the deities from the people. If famine or plague occurs, a sacrifice is made to Thor; if there is war, a sacrifice is made to Wodan; if a marriage is to be held, a sacrifice is made to Fricco. Adam continues that \"every nine years there is a communal festival of every province in Sweden held in Ubsola; and those already converted to Christianity have to buy themselves off from the ceremonies.\"\n\nAdam details sacrificial practices held at the temple; Adam describes that nine males of \"every living creature\" are offered up for sacrifice, and tradition dictates that their blood placates the gods. The corpses of the nine males are hung within the grove beside the temple. Adam says that the grove is considered extremely sacred to the heathens, so much so that each singular tree \"is considered to be divine,\" due to the death of those sacrificed or their rotting corpses hanging there, and that dogs and horses hang within the grove among the corpses of men. Adam reveals that \"one Christian\" informed him that he had seen seventy-two cadavers of differing species hanging within the grove. Adam expresses disgust at the songs they sing during these sacrificial rites, quipping that the songs are \"so many and disgusting that it is best to pass over them in silence.\"\n\nAdam describes that near the temple stands a massive tree with far-spreading branches, which is evergreen both in summer and winter. At the tree is also a spring where sacrifices are also held. According to Adam, a custom exists where a man, alive, is thrown into the spring, and if he fails to return to the surface, \"the wish of the people will be fulfilled.\"\n\nAdam writes that a golden chain surrounds the temple that hangs from the gables of the building. The chain is very visible to those approaching the temple from a distance due to the landscape where the temple was built; it is surrounded by hills, \"like an amphitheatre.\" The feasts and sacrifices continue for a total of nine days, and during the course of each day a man is sacrificed along with two animals. Therefore, in a total of nine days twenty-seven sacrifices occur, and, Adam notes, these sacrifices occur \"about the time of the spring equinox.\"\nRudolf Simek says that, regarding Adam of Bremen's account of the temple, \"Adam's sources for this information are of extremely varying reliability, but the existence of a temple at Uppsala is undisputed.\" The question is if this temple was pagan or Christian. Simek says that details of Adam's accounts have been cited as potentially influenced by the description of Solomon's Temple in the Old Testament. Simek notes, at the same time, similar chains as described by Adam appear on some European churches dating from the 8th to 9th centuries, although the description of the temple chain having been made of gold may be an exaggeration. Simek says that the numerous attempts at reconstructing the temple based on the postholes may overestimate the size of the temple, and that notes that \"more recent\" research indicates that the site of the 11th-century temple probably adjoined the choir of the church standing there today, while the postholes discovered by Lindqvist may instead point to an earlier, burnt-down temple at the same site.\n\nBuilding on previous critical discussions about Adam of Bremen's description of the temple by the archaeologists Harald Wideen and Olaf Olsen, Henrik Janson in his fundamental study on the European background of Adam's work, came to the conclusion that Adam used the case of Uppsala to display some of the more prominent lines of conflict at the outbreak of the investiture controversy. These lines of conflict reached deep into Scandinavia. Papacy and Empire were competing about the control of the Northern parts of Europe, and the Empire, through the Archbishopric of Hamburg-Bremen, claimed subjugation of the Scandinvian kingdoms under the Imperial church. These rights were however challenged by some political actors in the North, and a particularly strong resistance came from the kingdom of the Swedes where another Church, called \"Gallicana ecclesia\" by Pope Gregory VII, had the support of the Papacy. This Church can be connected to the Mälar-region and indeed Uppsala. It is not totally clear where the representatives of this \"Gallican Church\" came from, but one part of these influences can certainly be recognized in later Swedish saint lives remembering bishops from England, connected to the Cluniac reform movement, active in the Mälar-region in the 11th century - obviously in opposition to the Imperial Church of Hamburg-Bremen for which Adam of Bremen was trying to build up divine historical legitimacy. An important part of the picture is the fact that in these years it became feasible to blame opponents of paganism even if it was obvious that they were perfectly good Christians. The key concepts here were faith, \"fides\", mening faithfulness, and obedience, \"obedientia\", as was explicitly stated by Gregory VII in precisely these years: \"anyone falls into the sin of heathenism [\"paganitas\"] who, while claiming that he is a Christian, disdains to obey the apostolic see\". Previously these measures had mainly been directed against socially inferior groups – e.g. the Saxons against the Slavs and for that matter Scandinavians – but now this theological weapon was fired against the highest representatives of the Imperial Church. The first one to be hit was Archbishop Liemar of Hamburg Bremen, in whose service and defense Adam of Bremen was writing his work. Pointing to the lack of sources that could confirm Adam's description about a pagan temple in Uppsala, and bringing forth other sources, such as the over one thousand Christian rune stones in the area, showing that Christianity was well established in the there when Adam was writing, Janson concluded that the Uppsala Temple was nothing but a Christian church resisting The Sacred Roman Empire, with support from the Papacy and enemies of Henry IV that gathered around Gregory VII at the very outbreak of the Investiture contest. \n\nOrchard (1997) states that \"it is unclear to what extent Adam's description has a basis in historical fact rather than lurid fiction\" yet that Adam's account contains \"a good deal of useful information (as well as considerable speculation).\" Orchard points out that Adam's description of the temple has often been questioned \"on several levels\" and that Thietmar of Merseburg produced a considerably less detailed but similar account of sacrifices held in Lejre, Denmark earlier in the 11th century. Thietmar's account, however, concerns the religious situation in Denmark in the early 10th century, almost a century before he was writing, and he actually states that these pagan rites were extinguished in the 930's. Thus, there is good reasons to doubt that he could \"give a fair representation of pre-Christian religion\" in Scandinavia.\n\nIn the \"Ynglinga saga\" compiled in \"Heimskringla\", Snorri presents a euhemerized origin of the Norse gods and rulers descending from them. In chapter 5, Snorri asserts that the æsir settled in what is now Sweden and built various temples. Snorri writes that\n\"Odin took up his residence at the\nMaelare lake, at the place now called Old Sigtun. There he erected a large farm shrine (hof), where there were offerings (blót) according to the customs of the Asaland people. He appropriated to himself the whole of that district, and called it Sigtun. To the shrine spirits (hofgoðunum) he gave also dwelling places. Njörðr dwelt in Nóatún, Frey in Upsal, Heimdal in the Himinbergs, Thor in Thrudvang, Balder in Breidablik; to all of them he gave good estates.\"\n\nIn chapter 10, after Njörðr has died, his son Freyr comes to power and \"he was called the king of Swedes and received tribute from them.\" Freyr's subjects loved him greatly, and he was \"blessed by good seasons like his father.\" According to the saga, Freyr \"erected a great shrine at Uppsala and made his chief residence there, directing it to all tribute due to him, both lands and chattels. This was the origin of the Uppsala crown goods, which have been kept up ever since.\"\n\nIn 1926, Sune Lindqvist conducted archaeological investigations in Gamla Uppsala and discovered postholes beneath the church in Gamla Uppsala. These postholes may be lined up with the result of concentric rectangles, and subsequently various attempts at reconstructions of the temple have been attempted based on this discovery.\n\nPrice and Alkarp (2005) have been among those who dispute the 1926 interpretation: Though still maintained today in school textbooks and elsewhere, this conclusion is clearly erroneous as the postholes can be shown stratigraphically to belong to several different phases of construction. \nUsing ground penetrating radar and other geophysical methods, Price and Alkarp found the remains of what they interpreted as a wooden construction located directly under the northern transept of the medieval cathedral, and two other buildings, one of them a Bronze Age building, and the other possibly a Viking Age feasting hall.\nOrchard (1997) says that archaeological digs in the area \"have failed to reveal anything on the scale proposed for the temple\" yet that three burial mounds at the location reveal the importance of the site.\n\nIn 2013, the remains of two lines of large wooden poles were discovered. One line is approximately a kilometer long consisting of 144 poles and the other half a kilometer with each pole being separated by 5–6 meters. The lines probably continues but was not excavated due to lack of funds. The shorter line is perpendicular to the first, located a kilometer to the south and broken into a corner which indicates that if the lines mark an enclosure, as the one at Jelling Denmark, the enclosed area would be gigantic and by far the biggest structure north of the alps at this time. The poles were very wide and have been estimated to be at least 7 meters in length.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3620980", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3620980", "title": "The Holy Mountain (1973 film)", "text": "The Holy Mountain (1973 film)\n\nThe Holy Mountain (Spanish: \"La montaña sagrada\"), is a 1973 Mexican surreal-fantasy film directed, written, produced, co-scored, co-edited by and starring Alejandro Jodorowsky, who also participated as a set designer and costume designer on the film. The film was produced by The Beatles manager Allen Klein of ABKCO Music and Records, after Jodorowsky scored an underground phenomenon with \"El Topo\" and the acclaim of both John Lennon and George Harrison (Lennon and Yoko Ono put up production money). It was shown at various international film festivals in 1973, including Cannes, and limited screenings in New York and San Francisco.\n\nA man (later identified as the thief) representing The Fool tarot card, lies in the desert with flies covering his face like excrement. He is befriended by a footless, handless dwarf representing the Five of Swords, and the pair travel into the city where they make money entertaining tourists. Because the thief resembles Jesus Christ in appearance, some locals cast an impression of his body and sell the resulting crucifixes. After a dispute with a priest, the thief eats off the face of his wax statue and sends it skyward with balloons, symbolically eating the body of Christ and offering \"himself\" up to Heaven. Soon after, he notices a crowd gathered around a tall tower, where a large hook with a bag of gold has been sent down in exchange for food. \n\nThe thief, wishing to find the source of the gold, ascends the tower. There he finds the alchemist and his silent female assistant. After a confrontation with the alchemist, the thief defecates into a container. The excrement is transformed into gold by the alchemist, who proclaims: \"You are excrement. You can change yourself into gold.\" The thief accepts the gold, but smashes a mirror with the gold when shown his reflection. The alchemist then takes the thief as an apprentice.\n\nThe thief is introduced to seven people who will accompany him on his journey. Each is introduced as a personification of one of the planets, in particular the negative characteristics that are associated with his or her planet. They consist of a cosmetics manufacturer representing Venus, a weapons manufacturer representing Mars, a millionaire art dealer representing Jupiter, a war toy maker representing Saturn, a political financial adviser representing Uranus, a police chief representing Neptune, and an architect representing Pluto. The alchemist instructs the seven to burn their money as well as wax images of themselves. Together with the alchemist, the thief, and the alchemist's assistant, they form a group of ten.\n\nThe characters are led by the alchemist through various transformation rituals. Each carries a staff topped with the symbol of his or her planet; the alchemist carries a Sun staff, the thief carries a Moon staff, and the alchemist's assistant carries a Mercury staff. The ten journey by boat to \"Lotus Island\" in order to gain the secret of immortality from nine immortal masters who live on a holy mountain. Once on Lotus Island they are sidetracked by the Pantheon Bar, a cemetery party where people have abandoned their quest for the holy mountain and instead engage in drugs, poetry, or acts of physical prowess. Leaving the bar behind, they ascend the mountain. Each has a personal symbolic vision representing his or her worst fears and obsessions. \n\nNear the top, the thief is sent back to his \"people\" along with a young prostitute and an ape who have followed him from the city to the mountain. The rest confront the cloaked immortals, who are shown to be only faceless dummies. The alchemist then breaks the fourth wall with the command \"Zoom back, camera!\" and reveals the film apparatus (cameras, microphones, lights, and crew) just outside the frame. He instructs everyone, including the audience of the film, to leave the holy mountain: \"Goodbye Holy Mountain, Real life awaits us.\"\n\n\nThe film is based on \"Ascent of Mount Carmel\" by John of the Cross and \"Mount Analogue\" by René Daumal, who was a student of George Gurdjieff. In this film, much of Jodorowsky's visually psychedelic story follows the metaphysical thrust of \"Mount Analogue\". This is revealed in such events as the climb to the alchemist, the assembly of individuals with specific skills, the discovery of the mountain that unites Heaven and Earth \"that cannot \"not\" exist\", and symbolic challenges along the mountain ascent. Daumal died before finishing his allegorical novel, and Jodorowsky's improvised ending provides a way of completing the work (both symbolically and otherwise).\n\nBefore the principal photography would commence, Jodorowsky and his wife spent a week without sleep under the direction of a Japanese Zen master.\n\nThe central members of the cast spent three months doing various spiritual exercises guided by Oscar Ichazo of the Arica Institute. The Arica training features Zen, Sufi and yoga exercises along with eclectic concepts drawn from the Kabbalah, the \"I Ching\" and the teachings of George Gurdjieff. After the training, the group lived for one month communally in Jodorowsky's home before production. Thereafter, the filming started in early 1972. The film was shot sequentially, entirely in Mexico, at a budget of $750,000.\n\nJodorowsky was also instructed by Ichazo to take LSD for the purpose of spiritual exploration. He also administered psilocybin mushrooms to the actors during the shooting of the death-rebirth scene.\n\nThe film was completed just in time for the 1973 Cannes Film Festival, where it was much awaited. Jodorowsky edited out twenty minutes of dialogue from the film, with the intention of removing as much dialogue as he could. The film had its premiere at Waverly Theatre, an art house movie theater in New York City on November 29, 1973, where it had restricted run at midnights on Friday and Saturday for sixteen months. It was also shown at Filmex on March 30, 1974, which was described as the \"American premiere.\" At a few places it was released as a double bill with Jodorowsky's 1970 film, \"El Topo\", and eventually became a cult film with its influence on popular culture.\n\nIn 2010, the Alamo Drafthouse held a screening of \"The Holy Mountain\" as part of their \"High for the Holidays\" event. To commemorate this event, a limited-edition movie poster was designed by German artist Florian Bertmer.\n\nThe film was not given a wide release until over 30 years following its original premiere, when a restored print was shown in Cannes on 23 May 2006. It toured the United States, screening with \"El Topo\". It was released in DVD format on 1 May 2007, and a Blu-ray was released on 26 April 2011.\n\n\n \n"}
{"id": "41072736", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41072736", "title": "United States Department of Energy Global Energy Storage Database", "text": "United States Department of Energy Global Energy Storage Database\n\nThe United States Department of Energy's Global Energy Storage Database (GESDB) is a free-access database of energy storage projects and policies funded by the U.S. DOE, Office of Electricity and Sandia National Labs.\n\nIn 2013 the database covered 409 projects; it aimed to cover all energy storage projects globally by 2014.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "27033880", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27033880", "title": "Van Kleef Aquarium", "text": "Van Kleef Aquarium\n\nVan Kleef Aquarium was a oceanarium formerly located at Fort Canning Park facing River Valley Road in Singapore. The aquarium was opened in September 1955, closed in 31 May 1991, reopened as World of Aquarium in 1991 and as Fort Canning Aquarium in 1993 respectively. The Aquarium closed for the last time in 1996 and subsequently demolished in 1998.\n\nThe aquarium was named after Karel Willem Benjamin Van Kleef who was Dutch but resided in Singapore in the 19th and early 20th century. Van Kleef donated his fortune to the Singaporean government to build the aquarium after his death. When the aquarium opened it contained 6,500 marine creatures of 180 different species. There were salt water, fresh water and swamp water tanks. The building was fully air-conditioned. 270,000 visitors came in its first year of operation. During the 1970s the average number of visitors was about 400,000 annually.\nVisitor numbers had fallen to 248,000 in 1985. The aquarium was closed from 1986 to 1987 for renovations costing S$750,000. The number of visitors was not to reached its 1970s peak again. The opening of Underwater World on Sentosa island in 1991 further depressed visitor numbers. The Ministry of National Development of Singapore closed the Van Kleef Aquarium in 31 May 1991.\n\nIn October 1991, the aquarium was leased out to a private company and was reopened as World of Aquarium. The building’s façade was renovated and the aquarium bred and sold tropical fish. World of Aquarium closed in February 1993.\n\nSeveral months later, the aquarium reopened again as Fort Canning Aquarium but this endeavour was also short-lived.\n\nThe aquarium closed its doors for the last time in 1996. The building was demolished in 1998.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "66291", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=66291", "title": "Wadden Sea", "text": "Wadden Sea\n\nThe Wadden Sea (, , or \"\", , , ) is an intertidal zone in the southeastern part of the North Sea. It lies between the coast of northwestern continental Europe and the range of low-lying Frisian Islands, forming a shallow body of water with tidal flats and wetlands. It is rich in biological diversity. In 2009, the Dutch and German parts of the Wadden Sea were inscribed on UNESCO's World Heritage List and the Danish part was added in June 2014.\n\nThe Wadden Sea stretches from Den Helder, in the northwest of the Netherlands, past the great river estuaries of Germany to its northern boundary at Skallingen in Denmark along a total coastline of some and a total area of about . Within the Netherlands it is bounded from the IJsselmeer by the Afsluitdijk. The Wadden Sea's coastline has been heavily modified by man. Extensive systems of dikes and causeways make it among the most human-altered on the planet.\n\nThe German part of the Wadden Sea was the setting for the 1903 Erskine Childers novel \"The Riddle of the Sands\".\n\nThe word \"wad\" is Dutch for \"mud flat\" (Low German and , ). The area is typified by extensive tidal mud flats, deeper tidal trenches (tidal creeks) and the islands that are contained within this, a region continually contested by land and sea.\n\nThe landscape has been formed for a great part by storm tides in the 10th to 14th centuries, overflowing and carrying away former peat land behind the coastal dunes. The present islands are a remnant of the former coastal dunes.\n\nTowards the North Sea the islands are marked by dunes and wide sandy beaches, and towards the Wadden Sea a low, tidal coast. The impact of waves and currents carrying away sediments is slowly changing both land masses and coastlines. For example, the islands of Vlieland and Ameland have moved eastwards through the centuries, having lost land on one side and added it on the other.\n\nThe Wadden Sea is famous for its rich flora and fauna, especially birds. Hundreds of thousands of waders, ducks, and geese use the area as a migration stopover or wintering site. It is also a rich habitat for gulls and terns. However, the biodiversity of Wadden Sea today is only a fraction of what was seen before human exploitation; for birds, larger species such as geese, eagles, flamingos, pelicans, and herons used to be common as well. Some regionally extinct species are still found here.\n\nAccording to J. B. MacKinnon, larger fish including sturgeons, rays, Atlantic salmon, brown trout, and others like lacuna snails and oyster beds that were once found elsewhere in the region have disappeared as the Wadden Sea has been reduced to about 50% of its original size and nutrients from Rhine river no longer flow into it. As a result, about 90% of all the species which historically inhabited the Wadden Sea are present at risk.\nWadden Sea is an important habitat for both harbour and grey seals. Harbour porpoises and Atlantic white-beaked dolphins, which once were locally extinct but have re-colonized the area, are the sea's only resident cetaceans. Many other species have disappeared, only visit seasonally, or occasionally. North Atlantic right whales and gray whales were once seen in the region, using the shallow, calm waters for either feeding and breeding, before they were completely wiped out by shore-based whaling. They are now thought to either be extinct or have remnant populations In the low-tens. A possible right whale was observed close to beaches on Texel in the West Frisian Islands and off Steenbanken, Schouwen-Duiveland in July 2005. Recent increases in number of North Atlantic humpback whales and minke whales might have resulted in more visits and possible re-colonization by the species to the areas especially around Marsdiep. Future recovery of once-extinct local bottlenose dolphins is also expected.\n\nA number of human-introduced invasive species, including algae, plants, and smaller organisms, are causing negative effects on native species.\n\nEach of three countries has designated Ramsar sites in the region (see Wadden Sea National Parks).\n\nAlthough the Wadden Sea is not yet listed as a transboundary Ramsar site, a great part of the Wadden Sea is protected in cooperation of all three countries. \nThe governments of the Netherlands, Denmark and Germany have been working together since 1978 on the protection and conservation of the Wadden Sea. Co-operation covers management, monitoring and research, as well as political matters. Furthermore, in 1982, a Joint Declaration on the Protection of the Wadden Sea was agreed upon to co-ordinate activities and measures for the protection of the Wadden Sea. In 1997, a Trilateral Wadden Sea Plan was adopted.\n\nIn 1986, the Wadden Sea Area was declared a biosphere reserve by UNESCO.\n\nIn June 2009, the Wadden Sea (comprising the Dutch Wadden Sea Conservation Area and the German Wadden Sea National Parks of Lower Saxony and Schleswig-Holstein) was placed on the World Heritage list by UNESCO. The Danish part was added to the site in 2014.\n\nMany of the islands have been popular seaside resorts since the 19th century.\n\nMudflat hiking, i.e., walking on the sandy flats at low tide, has become popular in the Wadden Sea.\n\nIt is also a popular region for pleasure boating.\n\n"}
{"id": "4886627", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4886627", "title": "Wetted perimeter", "text": "Wetted perimeter\n\nThe wetted perimeter is the perimeter of the cross sectional area that is \"wet\". The term wetted perimeter is common in civil engineering, environmental engineering, hydrology, geomorphology, and heat transfer applications; it is associated with the hydraulic diameter or hydraulic radius. Engineers commonly cite the cross sectional area of a river.\n\nThe wetted perimeter can be defined mathematically as \nwhere \"l\" is the length of each surface in contact with the aqueous body.\n\nIn open channel flow, the wetted perimeter is defined as the surface of the channel bottom and sides in direct contact with the aqueous body. Friction losses typically increase with an increasing wetted perimeter, resulting in a decrease in head. In a practical experiment, one is able to measure the wetted perimeter with a tape measure weighted down to the river bed to get a more accurate measurement.\n\nWhen a channel is much wider than it is deep, the wetted perimeter approximates the channel width.\n\n"}
