{"id": "2699775", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2699775", "title": "Annette Kolodny", "text": "Annette Kolodny\n\nAnnette Kolodny (born August 21, 1941, New York, N.Y., U.S.) is a feminist literary critic and activist, and currently holds the position of College of Humanities Professor Emerita of American Literature and Culture at the University of Arizona in Tucson. Her major scholarly writings examine the experiences of women on the American frontiers and the projection of female imagery onto the American landscape. Her other writings examine some aspects of feminism after the 1960s; the revision of dominant themes in American studies; and the problems faced by women and minorities in the American academy. \nCapping what was already a long and distinguished career, in 2012 Annette Kolodny published \"In Search of First Contact: The Vikings of Vinland, the Peoples of the Dawnland, and the Anglo-American Anxiety of Discovery\" (Duke University Press). The influential magazine \"Indian Country Today\" immediately named it as one of the 12 most important books in Native American Studies published in 2012. The Western Literature Association awarded the book the Thomas Lyon Prize as \"the best book in Western literary and cultural studies published in 2012.\" Professor Kolodny had earlier made her mark in the field of Native American Studies with the publication of the long-lost 1893 masterpiece of Native American literature, Joseph Nicolar's \"The Life and Traditions of the Red Man\" (Duke University Press, 2007). This new edition included an interpretive analysis of Nicolar's text as well as a fascinating history of the Penobscot Nation in Maine. These two latest books mark the culmination of a scholarly career that began with studies of the American frontiers and moved into breakthrough examinations of trans-Atlantic contacts between Europeans and Native Americans.\n\nKolodny was born in New York City to Esther Rifkind Kolodny and David Kolodny. She did her undergraduate work at Brooklyn College, from which she graduated Phi Beta Kappa magna cum laude in 1962. After graduation, she took a position on the editorial staff at \"Newsweek\". Kolodny left to return to graduate studies in 1964, citing a desire “to teach people to think critically and because she wanted to be able to publish her own ideas, not merely report the ideas of others.\" Her M.A. and Ph.D. work were completed at the University of California, Berkeley, and she earned the latter degree in 1969. Her first teaching position at Yale University was cut short as she left after a year to move to Canada with her husband, whose draft board appeal for conscientious objector status for the duration of the Vietnam War was rejected. Finding a position at the University of British Columbia, she helped develop western Canada’s first accredited interdisciplinary women’s studies program before returning to the United States in 1974 to teach at the University of New Hampshire.\nIn New Hampshire, she wrote her first major work of feminist eco-criticism, \"The Lay of the Land: Metaphor as Experience and History in American Life and Letters\" (1975). While the book got positive reviews and pioneered the field of feminist ecocriticism, Kolodny was denied promotion and tenure in the English Department at the University of New Hampshire. (Richter 1387) Active in the student movements while in Berkeley, she continued to advocate for the right to establish a program in women’s studies. She later sued the University of New Hampshire charging sex discrimination and anti-Semitism. She settled with the \"largest financial award in history in a case of this kind\". She used this money to establish the Legal Fund of the Task Force on Discrimination for the National Women's Studies Association (NWSA), an organization she had helped found, and served as director of the task force from 1980 to 1985. The Task Force is now renamed Feminists Against Academic Discrimination within the NWSA.\n\nKolodny taught at several universities, including the University of Maryland and Rensselaer Polytechnic Institute before being named Dean of the College of Humanities at the University of Arizona in Tucson. Following her tenure as dean, which spanned from 1988 to 1993, Kolodny was named College of Humanities Professor of American Literature and Culture at the University of Arizona. Currently, she is Professor Emerita of Comparative Cultural and Literary Studies at the University of Arizona in Tucson.\n\nIn 1993 she was elected to lifetime membership in the Norwegian Academy of Science and Letters.\n\nHer books have won many awards both in the United States and abroad. Over the course of her scholarly career, Kolodny has received grants and fellowships from the National Endowment for the Humanities, the Ford Foundation, the Guggenheim Foundation, the Rockefeller Humanities Fellowship, and others. She retired from the University of Arizona in July 2007 and has continued an active professional life as a consultant in higher education policy issues and as a scholar of American literature and culture.\n\nKolodny’s first two books were \"The Lay of the Land: Metaphor as Experience and History in American Life and Letters\" (University of North Carolina Press, 1975) and \"The Land Before Her: Fantasy and Experience of the American Frontiers, 1630-1860 \"(University of North Carolina Press, 1984); both of these texts deal with environmental concerns and the historic destruction of the land (Jay 217). Based on her experience as a senior administrator in higher education, Kolodny published \"Failing the Future: A Dean Looks at Higher Education in the Twenty-First Century\" (Duke University Press, 1998), which \"details the extent to which women and non-white students are still outsiders on American campuses.\" The book also examines the status of the humanities disciplines in higher education, the value of tenure, and the need for family friendly policies on campus. It is a book about needed educational innovations in the twenty-first century.\n\nKolodny is also well known for two essays published in 1980: \"Dancing Through the Minefield: Some Observations on the Theory, Practice, and Politics of a Feminist Literary Criticism\" (\"Feminist Studies\", Spring 1980) and \"A Map for Re-Reading: Gender and the Interpretation of Literary Texts\" (\"New Literary History\", Spring 1980). Of these, \"Dancing Through the Minefield\" is the most well-known, and has been called \"the most reprinted essay of American feminist literary criticism\". It has been translated and reprinted worldwide.\n\nIn 2007, Kolodny published a long-lost masterpiece of Native American literature, Joseph Nicolar’s \"The Life and Traditions of the Red Man\" (Duke University Press), originally published in 1893. Nicolar’s work traces the history of his people, the Penobscot Nation, from the first moments of creation through the arrival of the white man. Kolodny’s reprint of this important work includes a history of the Penobscot Nation and an interpretive introduction to the text. It was stipulated that the royalties from this text go to the Penobscot. In 2012, Kolodny published \"In Search of First Contact: The Vikings of Vinland, the Peoples of the Dawnland, and the Anglo-American Anxiety of Discovery\" (Duke University Press). A major contribution to the field of American Studies, this book examines both Native American and Euroamerican stories of first contacts between the peoples of the New and Old Worlds. It examines the competition between Leif Eiriksson and Christopher Columbus for the title of \"first discoverer\".\n\nIn her first book, \"The Lay of the Land\", Kolodny explores the colonization of America, both in reality and in the realm of metaphor. She examines \"the continued repetition of the land-as-woman symbolization in American life and letters\" (Kolodny, ix). The projection of female imagery onto the landscape was essential to its colonization, she argued; in her introduction, she asks, \"was there perhaps a need to experience the land as a nurturing, giving maternal breast because of the threatening, alien, and potentially emasculating terror of the unknown?\" (9) By construing the land as female, she argued, it was possible for the colonists to remove some of the terror and mystery from an unknown land. Instead, it became either a nurturing maternal figure, existing to provide sustenance, or a passive virginal figure, existing only to be dominated, sexually or otherwise. With these metaphors firmly in sight, the colonists had a framework through which to view the vast stretches of North America as less alien and terrifying. Through an examination of several male writers, such as Philip Freneau, James Fenimore Cooper, and John James Audubon, Kolodny pursues the implications of this metaphorically female land.\n\nDifferent chapters of the book correspond to different chronological eras after the discovery and colonization of the Americas and to different metaphorical mindsets as manifested in the writings of the authors considered. In chapter 2, \"Surveying the Virgin Land: The Documents of Exploration and Colonization, 1500–1740\", the comparison of the land to an untouched, virginal paradise begins the exploration. Chapter 3, \"Laying Waste Her Fields of Plenty: The Eighteenth Century\", discusses the romanticized agrarian and pastoral ideals that coloured the view of America, especially in its comparisons to ideal lands like Elysium and Arcadia, and the consequences that arose from such ideals, such as the exploitation and alteration of the land. Chapter 4, \"Singing Her Past and Singing Her Praises: The Nineteenth Century\", examines the dual images of Mother and Mistress in the land, as well as the frustration of the pastoral impulse with the closing of the American frontier and the victory of the industrialized North in the American Civil War. Finally, chapter 5, \"Making It with Paradise: The Twentieth Century\", deals with the increase of industrialization and the yearning both \"to return to and to master the beautiful and bountiful femininity of the new continent.\" (139)\n\nFreudian and psychoanalytic influences are apparent in this text, especially in the \"psychosexual dynamic of a virginal paradise\" (Kolodny, \"Land Before Her\", 3). It also has tones of ecofeminism, which will be discussed below.\n\nIn the preface to this book, Kolodny states that \"[t]he purpose of this study is to chart women’s private responses to the successive American frontiers and to trace a tradition of women’s public statements about the west.\" (Kolodny, \"Land Before Her\", xi) Thus, she approaches the same topic as that of \"Lay of the Land\" (\"landscape as a symbolic…realm\" [xii]), but from a different direction. In the writings she examined, she noticed a different theme from that of the male writers:\n\nLike their husbands and fathers, women too shared in economic motives behind emigration; and like the men, women also dreamed of transforming the wilderness. But the emphases were different…Avoiding for a time male assertions of a rediscovered Eden, women claimed the frontiers as a potential sanctuary for an idealized domesticity. Massive exploitation and alteration of the continent do not seem to have been a part of women’s fantasies. They dreamed, more modestly, of locating a home and a familial human community within a cultivated garden. (xii–xiii)\n\nThere is little sense of the conquering-of-the-frontier mentality that Kolodny discovered in the male writers she discussed in \"Lay of the Land\". There were no triumphant heroes of the order of Daniel Boone or Davey Crockett; rather, the narratives of these women focused on the triumph of domesticity and order in a wild land.\n\nThe book is organized chronologically, in much the same way as \"Lay of the Land\". The first section is titled \"Book One: From Captivity to Accommodation, 1630-1833\", and traces the writings of and about women as they moved from captivity both literal (Mary Rowlandson’s account of being captured by Native Americans) and figurative (the sense of being forcibly confined in a new and strange land) to adaptation in the form of survival skills, such as those reputedly possessed by Rebecca Boone, the wife of Daniel Boone. Book two, \"From Promotion to Literature, 1833–1850\", follows attempts to encourage women to move westward by male writers to western narratives by the women themselves. The third and final section, \"Book Three: Repossessing Eden, 1850–1860\", documents the attempts by women to create a familiar order in a still unfamiliar country.\n\nBoth of these books relate to a subgenre of feminism called ecological feminism or ecofeminism, a social and political doctrine that posits a relationship between the subjugation of women and the destruction of nature. Ecofeminists theorize that a culture based on dominating women is directly connected to social ideals that promote the environmental abuse of the earth. \n\nThese two books have a connection to ecofeminism, particularly \"Lay of the Land\". The feminization of the land and the images of the earth as a passive, giving female figure show the social ideas that ecofeminism protests against. Likewise, \"The Land Before Her\" exemplifies the same ideas from a different point of view in the ideal of the domestic garden, or the altering of nature.\n\nPerhaps her best known work, Kolodny’s 1980 essay \"Dancing Through the Minefield\" was the \"first work to attempt both a survey of the first ten years of feminist literary inquiry and an analysis of the informing theoretical propositions\". It has been the subject of criticism in the years since its initial publication, but can still be seen as a guide to \"feminist concerns and methodologies.\"\n\nKolodny emphasizes Social constructionism in this essay, although she herself never uses the term. Briefly, social constructionism is a school of thought that involves looking at the ways social phenomena are created, by people. (See full article on Social constructionism) Using this theory, social entities are seen as always being in a state of change as society itself changes, and the relationships of the entities change. \"[T]hings in the world … are the products of ongoing social processes of interaction, and thus do not have fixed or inherent meanings.\"\n\nIn \"Dancing Through the Minefield\", Kolodny applies this theory to the literary canon, those works of literature that are considered appropriate for study. But such a canon is formed by critics whose values of aestheticism are not neutral. The critical interpretation is formed by the interaction between two objects: the text and the reader. According to Kolodny, the reader’s ability to read any given text is shaped by the social conventions and assumptions of their time and place; Reading becomes a social product. But neither is the text pure; it is also moulded by social relations and customs. So any critical interpretation is necessarily a product of two forms of social construction. \"Readers and texts are both made — and they are continually being remade.\" The dynamic nature of both texts and readers must be taken into consideration when examining any text, or the established criticism of that text.\n\nKolodny’s essay has a clear theoretical outline. In light of the social constructionist view that aesthetic values, as assigned to the literary canon, are in actuality the products of social conventions and values, Kolodny claims that feminist criticism should \"discover how aesthetic value is assigned in the first place\" (Kolodny 2147) and then assess the socially-constructed reading patterns that lead to those value judgements. \"Having become embroiled in value disagreements, feminism should consider the processes underlying value judgements.\" \"Dancing Through the Minefield\" outlines a three-part nucleus assumed by most contemporary feminist literary critics to be essential. First, any construction of a literary canon is a social construction; second, readers unconsciously engage texts from a certain point-of-view; and third, this unconscious bias present in all readers must be consciously and critically re-examined. \n\nFirst, she writes, \"literary history…is a fiction.\" (Kolodny 2153) This refers to the traditional formation of the literary canon and literary history as a social construction. Literary histories define the major, minor, and ignored texts according to their own social values and conventions, not out of any inherent aesthetic value on the text itself. For example, the western literary canon has been largely created by well-educated white men, and the focus of the canon is therefore on works by well-educated white men. It embodied, as well as upheld, the dominant ideology of the time, and had implications beyond aesthetic values. To give preference to texts by this group was to ignore texts created by other social groups. In recent years, the monolithic nature of the canon has been challenged, and works by previously ignored sections of the literary world (women, homosexuals, and ethnic minorities) have gained some footholds in the canon.\n\nSecondly, readers of texts \"engage…not texts but paradigms.\" (2155) Just as texts and canons are socially constructed, so are the vantage points from which readers engage with any given text. This was also mentioned by Stanley Fish, who called these vantage points interpretive communities. Kolodny states that \"we appropriate meaning from a text…according the critical assumptions or predispositions (conscious or not) that we bring to it.\" (2155)\n\nFinally, Kolodny \"strives to undo the unconsciousness of the reader identified\" in the second part of her theory:\n\nSince the grounds upon which we assign aesthetic value to texts are never infallible, unchangeable, or universal, we must re-examine not only our aesthetics but, as well, the inherent biases and assumptions informing the critical methods which (in part) shape our aesthetic responses. (Kolodny 2158)\nThese three general theoretical principles are then supported by the concept of pluralism. Pluralism in this context refers to a conscious effort not to limit oneself to a single critical approach when reading a text. Rather, the object of pluralism is to make use of multiple critical approaches and to get a fuller appreciation of the variety of meanings which can be present in a single text. Kolodny specifically refers to a feminist pluralism, which validates \"multiple interpretations of various texts\" according to the usefulness of a pluralistic view of a text. This method of reading would give equality to different approaches as well as allow critical examinations of those same approaches, which in turn helps create the \"broad critical awareness\" advocated by Kolodny’s third principle as outlined above.\n\nThe essay emphasizes the real situation of contemporary women. Kolodny believes that feminism and women’s studies should not be confined to books or classrooms. “[I]deas are important because they determine the ways we live, or want to live, in the world” (Kolodny 2164); ideas are therefore not meant to exist in a vacuum. Rather, they must be taken into the world through activism.\n\nSeveral authors have criticized \"Dancing Through the Minefield\". The most well-known of these criticisms appeared in a collaborative article Kolodny wrote with Judith Gardiner, Elly Bulkin, and Rena Patterson entitled \"An Interchange on Feminist Criticism: On ‘Dancing Through the Minefield’\", which was published in the journal \"Feminist Studies\" in 1983. \n\nBoth Bulkin and Patterson believe that Kolodny, while speaking to women in her essay, is only speaking to a certain group of women — those who are white, middle class, and heterosexual. Patterson states that \"despite its language and intent, [the essay]…represents classist, white, and heterosexist attitudes which are common in feminist literary criticism and which contradict the best of feminist thought and the aims of the women's movement\" (Patterson, 654). This is a common criticism of second-wave feminism: that it tended to ignore the problems of non-white and non-heterosexual women in favor of a homogenized white heterosexual feminist culture. However, Kolodny’s advocacy of the concept of pluralism may offset this claim. While she does not specify that alternative critical approaches should come from different ethnicities or sexualities, there is no reason why they could not and such inclusion would only increase the scope of the \"broad critical awareness\" mentioned above.\n\nGardiner, on the other hand, disagrees with Kolodny about the use of pluralism. While there can be no single ideology to which all feminist theories belong, Gardiner writes, there are some strong ideological concepts that define areas of feminism. Examples of this would include liberal feminism, socialist feminism, and ecofeminism. In Gardiner’s view, the strong ideological beliefs shared by these groups would \"limit their susceptibility to pluralism.\" (Gardiner 634)\n\nKolodny’s 1998 book is not a work of literary criticism, but rather one of institutional criticism. After serving as dean of Humanities for five years at the University of Arizona, Kolodny wrote this book in order to outline some of the problems facing academic institutions. These include the ability of legislators and administrators to make uninformed decisions about budget cuts without realizing the effect of such cuts on quality education; a myriad of problems about tenure and promotions processes, which Kolodny believes still reflect an attitude antagonistic to women or ethnic minorities; a problem with anti-feminist and anti-intellectual harassment; the lack of support available for students with children; the extent to which women and non-whites are still considered outsiders on university campuses; and the effect of an outdated curriculum in the face of greater demographic diversity and changing student learning needs. She outlines a number of changes which can be made to improve conditions and, realizing that any substantial change will require equally substantial money, encourages government reinvestment in higher education.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "8675507", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8675507", "title": "Armenian Question", "text": "Armenian Question\n\nThe term \"Armenian Question\", as used in European history, became commonplace among diplomatic circles and in the popular press after the Congress of Berlin in 1878. As with the Eastern Question, it refers to Europe's involvement with the Armenian subjects of the Ottoman Empire, beginning with the Russo-Turkish War of 1877–78. In specific terms, the Armenian question refers to the protection and the freedoms of Armenians from their neighboring communities. The \"Armenian Question\" explains the 40 years of Armenian-Ottoman history in the context of English, German, and Russian politics between 1877–1914. The term \"Armenian Question\" is also often used to refer to the question of Turkey's lack of acknowledgement of the events surrounding the Armenian Genocide. Armenian Question is also a high school subject in some schools of Armenia.\n\nBeginning in the mid-19th century, the Great Powers took issue with the Ottoman Empire's treatment of its Christian minorities and increasingly pressured it to extend equal rights to all its citizens. Following the violent suppression of Christians in the uprisings in Bosnia and Herzegovina, Bulgaria, and Serbia in 1875, the Great Powers invoked the 1856 Treaty of Paris, claiming it provided the authority for their intervention to protect the Ottoman Empire's Christian minorities. By the late 1870s, the Greeks, along with several other Christian nations in the Balkans, frustrated with their conditions, had, with the help of the Powers, broken free of Ottoman rule. The Armenians, on the other hand, received less interest and no support that wasn't later withdrawn from the Great Powers and remained, by and large, stagnant during these years, earning them the title of \"millet-i sadıka\" or the \"loyal millet\".\n\nIn 1827-28, Tsar Nicholas I sought help from Persian Armenians in the Russo-Persian War, promising that afterward, their lives would improve. In 1828, the Russians declared war on Turkey. In 1828, Russia annexed the Erivan Khanate, Nakhichevan Khanate, and the surrounding countryside with the Treaty of Turkmenchay. After the Treaty of Turkmenchay, Armenians still living under Persian rule were encouraged to emigrate to Russian Armenia and 30,000 followed the call. Russia annexed significant portions of territory occupied by the Armenians. By the 1897 Russian Census, 1,127,212 Armenians were counted in Russian lands:\n\n\nFor the same period (1896 Vital Cuinet) there were 1,095,889 Armenians in the Ottoman Empire:\n\n\nAs Russia advanced its southern border, it became increasingly involved with Ottoman affairs. Russia was instrumental in obtaining the independence of Romania and Serbia. Russia, and Russian life, attracted Armenians. Many Armenians became educated and adopted Russian ways. Russia was also a path to Europe for Armenians. Russia gained control over a large part of Armenia, and became the champion of Armenians in the Ottoman Empire.\n\nMost Armenians lived in provinces bordering Russia and not any other European states. By the Treaty of Adrianople, Akhalkalak and Akhaltsikhe were ceded to Russia. This resulted in a wave of emigration, with 25,000 Ottoman Armenians moving to Russian Armenia. The Armenians began to look more toward the Russian Empire as the ultimate guarantors of their security.\n\nMany Armenians in the Eastern provinces of the Ottoman Empire, living under the threat of unchecked violence and depredation on the part of aggressive neighboring peoples, greeted the advancing Russian army as liberators. In January 1878, Armenian Patriarch of Constantinople Nerses II Varzhapetian approached the Russian leadership to receive assurances that Russia would introduce provisions for Armenian self-administration in the new peace treaty.\n\nIn March 1878, after the conclusion of the Russo-Turkish War (1877–1878), the Armenian Patriarch of Constantinople, Nerses II Varzhaptian (1874–1884), forwarded Armenian complaints of widespread \"forced land seizure ... forced conversion of women and children, arson, protection racket, rape, and murder\" to the Powers. Patriarch Nerses Varjabedyan convinced Russians to insert Article 16 to Treaty of San Stefano, stipulating that the Russian forces occupying the Armenian-populated provinces in the eastern Ottoman Empire would withdraw only with the full implementation of reforms. Though not as explicit, Article 16 of the Treaty of San Stefano read: \n\nHowever, in June 1878, Great Britain took objection to Russia holding on to so much Ottoman territory and forced it to enter into new negotiations with the convening of the Congress of Berlin. Article 16 was modified so that all mention of the Russian forces remaining in the provinces was removed. Instead, the Ottoman government was periodically to inform the Great Powers of the progress of the reforms. In the final text of the Treaty of Berlin, it was transformed into Article 61, which read: The Armenian National Assembly and Patriarch Nerses Varjabedyan asked his predecessor on Patriarchal See and future Catholicos Mkrtich Khrimian to present the case for the Armenians at Berlin. An Armenian delegation led by Mkrtich Khrimian traveled to Berlin to present the case of the Armenians but, much to its dismay, was left out of the negotiations. Following the Berlin negotiations, in his famous patriotic speech “The Paper Ladle,” Mkrtich Khrimian advised Armenians to take the national awakening of Bulgaria (Liberation of Bulgaria) as a model for the hopes for self-determination. In Bulgarian historiography, Liberation of Bulgaria means the events of the Russo-Turkish War of 1877-78 that led to the re-establishment of the Bulgarian sovereign state with the Treaty of San Stefano.\n\nIn 1880, the Armenians, especially encouraged by the prime minister Gladstone, broached the Armenian issue with the words, \"To serve Armenia is to serve the Civilization\". On 11 June 1880, the great powers sent to porte an “Identic Note” which asked for the enforcement of Article 61. This was followed on 2 January 1881 with a \"British Circular on Armenia\" sent to the other Powers.\n\nArmenian reform program of 11 May 1895 was a set of reforms proposed by European Powers.\n\nFrench diplomat Victor Bérard wrote: \n\nThe Armenian reform package was a reform plan devised by the European powers in 1912–1914 that envisaged the creation of two provinces placed under the supervision of two European inspectors general. As it turned out, the reforms were not forthcoming. With the lack of visible progress in the improvement of the plight of the Armenian community, a number of disillusioned Armenian intellectuals living in Europe and Russia in the 1880s and 1890s decided to form political parties and revolutionary societies which would struggle to attain better conditions for their compatriots.\n\n"}
{"id": "1446131", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1446131", "title": "Assyrian Democratic Movement", "text": "Assyrian Democratic Movement\n\nThe Assyrian Democratic Movement (), usually abbreviated as ADM and popularly known as Zowaa (English: \"The Movement\") is an Assyrian political party situated in Iraq, which is one of the main Assyrian parties within the Iraqi parliament.\n\nThe Assyrian Democratic Movement (Zowaa) was founded in April 12, 1979 in a general conference that was held in secrecy in several meetings in Kirkuk, Mosul and Baghdad. The party was established among various smaller cultural-political and student groups such as the Assyrian Brothers, with the primary focus to satisfy the political objectives of the Assyrian people in Iraq, in response to the oppressive brutality of the Ba'ath regime and its attempts to forcibly expropriate ethnic Assyrians from their native lands. The ideology of the movement stemmed from Assyrian cultural awareness that had developed in Urmia and Harput during the Assyrian independence movement. The movement took up armed struggle against the Iraqi regime in 1982 under the leadership of Ninos Pithyou with the primary focus of defending Assyrian villages, and joined the Iraqi-Kurdistan Front (IKF) in early 1990s. Yonadam Kanna, in particular was a target of the Saddam Hussein Ba'ath regime for many years. \n\nSince its inception, the ADM have joined with the Iraqi patriotic factions in the fight against dictatorship. The movement has also participated in the political field since 1982 alongside other groups. It started by issuing its central newspaper, Bahra, in June 1982. In 1988, fighter members of the movement and its headquarters as well as the rest of the Kurdish parties were attacked in the Al-Anfal Campaign. ADM participated in the uprising in 1991; then won seats in parliamentary elections for the Kurdistan region of Iraq in 1992. \n\nThe ADM is credited with the development of education in the Syriac language in both elementary and secondary schools as well as the initiation of different organizations such as the Chaldo-Assyrian Students' Union, Hammurabi Scouts, Assyrian Women's Union of Iraq and the Assyrian Aid Society. \n\nThe ADM has endured a struggle through the sacrifice of its martyrs' in the arena of armed struggle. On 14 July 1984, the Saddam led regime attacked ADM locations in Baghdad, arresting more than 150 members of the movement who were imprisoned in the notorious Abu Ghraib prison. Twenty-two members were sentenced to life imprisonment, and four were sentenced to death where Yousip Toma, Youbert Benyamin and Youkhanna Esho were hanged on treason charges. Jamil Matti and Sheba Hamey were later murdered by the Iraqi Army while safeguarding the villages of Hejerke and Pireka. Relatives of ADM members were also imprisoned, tortured and murdered for their connection to the movement. \n\nSome ADM members were victims of political assassinations such as Francis Yousef Shabo who was allegedly assassinated by Wahid Kovli, a Kurdistan Democratic Party (KDP) hitman. \n\nDue to successful lobbying from influential Assyrian-Americans and from Congressman Henry Hyde, American President George W. Bush designated the ADM an officially recognized Iraqi opposition movement. In a December 9, 2002 memorandum, President Bush invoked both articles four and five of the Iraq Liberation Act of 1998 as a means of allowing the United States government to provide financial resources to the ADM and other Iraqi opposition groups. Kanna himself participated in a September 2002 meeting of Iraqi opposition leaders in New York and addressed the London conference of Iraqi opposition leaders in December 2002. In February 2003, Kanna addressed both Iraqi opposition leaders and U.S. envoy Zalmay Khalilzad at a conference in northern Iraq. Just hours prior to the American-led war against Iraq in March 2003, Kanna stressed the importance of the coming war for the history of the Assyrian people. He noted that some Assyrians were leaving the cities for the villages and urged diaspora Assyrians to provide humanitarian aid to their brethren.\n\nYonadam Kanna became the leader of the party in 2001, succeeding Ninos Pithyou. He served on the temporary Iraqi Governing Council before it was disbanded in favor of the elected body formed after the January 2005 Iraqi elections.\n\nThe party's website, zowaa.org, describes it as \"a democratic and political organization -- national and patriotic -- to defend our people and their legitimate rights and to struggle under the banner of [a] free democratic Iraq.\" The site's declarations include calls for official recognition of the rights of Assyrians and \"unity of our people under their several religious identities\": Chaldean church, Syriac church, and Assyrian church (various Christian denominations in the Assyrian demographic). The group supports the idea of a federal Iraq, and maintains good relations with other Assyrian and Kurdish groups present in northern Iraq, as well as with Shi'a leaders in southern Iraq. The movement is also represented in the Kurdistan parliament. Party members and Assyrians in general have been the focus of some Islamic insurgent attacks in the time since the fall of Saddam Hussein.\n\nThe party also operates Ashur TV, Ashur Radio and issues Bahra newspaper.\n\nThe party is based in the former headquarters of the Fedayeen Saddam in Zayouna, Baghdad. \n\nThe party has faced many setbacks since the beginning of the Iraq invasion. \n\nThe organizational structure of the party is as follows:\n\n\nThe party is organized into several branches both in Iraq and in the diaspora. Some of these branches include:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "9344172", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9344172", "title": "Australian House of Representatives committees", "text": "Australian House of Representatives committees\n\nParliamentary committees of the Australian House of Representatives are groups of Members of Parliament, appointed by the House of Representatives, to undertake certain specified tasks. They comprise government and non-government Members and have considerable powers to undertake work on behalf of the Parliament.\n\nThe Federation Chamber, formerly the Main Committee, provides an additional forum for the second reading and consideration in detail stages of bills and debate of committee reports and papers presented to the House. All Members of the House are automatically members of the Federation Chamber and eligible to participate in its meetings.\n\nUnder the Standing Orders of the House, standing committees are appointed for the life of the Parliament and they are usually re-established in some form in successive Parliaments (that is, after each election).\n\nThe House has two types of standing committees:\n\n\nSelect committees are appointed as the need arises for a specific purpose, and have a limited life.\n\nJoint committees are established by both Houses of the Australian parliament and include both Members and Senators.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "30950603", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30950603", "title": "Australian Protectionist Party", "text": "Australian Protectionist Party\n\nThe Australian Protectionist Party is a minor Australian political party with protectionist and nationalist policies. The party was registered by the Australian Electoral Commission in January 2011, and went on to contest the 2013 federal election, but was de-registered in June 2015.\n\nThe Australian Protectionist Party is an Australian nationalist political party with protectionism as its ideological basis. \n\nAccording to their website, the party has seven primary policies which include, amongst others, the protection of the economy, environment, the family unit and way of life. The APP opposes multiculturalism saying it is \"ruining Australia.\"\n\nRegistered as a federal political party with the Australian Electoral Commission on 18 January 2011, the Australian Protectionist Party opposes refugees and asylum seekers and often participates in rallies such as the one outside the Villawood Immigration Detention Centre. Since inception, the Australian Protectionist Party has been active in protesting against the presence of asylum seekers and Muslims, and has also organised several protests against Sharia law being implemented in Australia.\n\nThe APP hailed the election of US president Donald Trump, believing this \"ushered in a new era\". \n\nIn April 2007 Darrin Hodges, chairman of the Sutherland Shire branch, was expelled from the Australia First Party due to disagreements with other party members. Hodges went on to co-found the Australian Protectionist Party. Andrew Phillips became national chairman of the new party.\n\nOn Saturday 23 June 2012, the APP held what they described as a \"counter protest\" to a pro-refugee celebration day by the \"Walk Together\" group.\n\nThe party has been involved in Glenn Druery's Minor Party Alliance.\n\nIn June 2016, the Australian Protectionist Party hosted a public speaking event in Perth featuring former Labor and independent MP Graeme Campbell, whom the APP described as \"the Father of modern Australian nationalism\". \n\nIn October 2016, the Australian Protectionist Party joined with the Australia First Party, Nationalist Alternative, Eureka Youth League, and Hellenic Nationalists of Australia to form the Australian Coalition of Nationalists (ACN).\nDarrin Hodges ran unsuccessfully as a candidate in the 2008 Sutherland Shire Council elections, coming last in his ward. Hodges ran again unsuccessfully as a candidate for the Senate in the 2010 Australian federal election. Hodges had to run as an independent as his party was not registered in time and his ticket received 1,501 votes (0.03%).\n\nIn September 2012, NSW spokesman Nick Folkes was also unsuccessful when he contested the NSW council elections for the Municipality of Leichhardt and received 0.6% of the total vote for the ward with 41 votes.\n\nIn the Australian federal election, 2013 for the Senate in NSW, the Party received 2,424 votes or 0.06% of the vote.\n\nIn December 2012 NSW chairman Nick Folkes, resigned from the Australian Protectionist Party to form the \"Party for Freedom (Australia)\".\n\n"}
{"id": "193812", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=193812", "title": "Baghdad Pact", "text": "Baghdad Pact\n\nThe Central Treaty Organization (\"CENTO\"), originally known as the Baghdad Pact or the Middle East Treaty Organization (\"METO\"), was formed in 1955 by Iran, Iraq, Pakistan, Turkey and the United Kingdom. It was dissolved in 1979.\n\nUS pressure and promises of military and economic aid were key in the negotiations leading to the agreement, but the United States could not initially participate. John Foster Dulles, who was involved in the negotiations as U.S. Secretary of State under President Dwight D. Eisenhower, claimed that was due to \"the pro-Israel lobby and the difficulty of obtaining Congressional Approval.\" Others said that the reason was \"for purely technical reasons of budgeting procedures.\"\n\nIn 1958, the US joined the military committee of the alliance. It is generally viewed as one of the least successful of the Cold War alliances.\n\nThe organization's headquarters were in Baghdad, Iraq, in 1955 to 1958 and in Ankara, Turkey, in 1958 to 1979. Cyprus was also an important location for CENTO because of its location in the Middle East and the British Sovereign Base Areas on the island.\n\nModeled after the North Atlantic Treaty Organization (NATO), CENTO committed the nations to mutual cooperation and protection, as well as non-intervention in each other's affairs. Its goal was to contain the Soviet Union (USSR) by having a line of strong states along the USSR's southwestern frontier. Similarly, it was known as the 'Northern Tier' to prevent Soviet expansion into the Middle East. Unlike NATO, CENTO did not have a unified military command structure, nor were many U.S. or UK military bases established in member countries, although the U.S. had communications and electronic intelligence facilities in Iran, and operated U-2 intelligence flights over the USSR from bases in Pakistan. The United Kingdom had access to facilities in Pakistan and Iraq at various times while the treaty was in effect. \n\nOn July 14, 1958, the Iraqi monarchy was overthrown in a military coup. The new government was led by General Abdul Karim Qasim who withdrew Iraq from the Baghdad Pact, opened diplomatic relations with Soviet Union and adopted a non-aligned stance. The organization dropped the name 'Baghdad Pact' in favor of 'CENTO' at that time.\n\nThe Middle East and South Asia became extremely volatile areas during the 1960s with the ongoing Arab–Israeli Conflict and the Indo-Pakistani Wars. CENTO was unwilling to get deeply involved in either dispute. In 1965 and 1971, Pakistan tried unsuccessfully to get assistance in its wars with India through CENTO, but this was rejected under the idea that CENTO was aimed at containing the USSR, not India.\n\nCENTO did little to prevent the expansion of Soviet influence to non-member states in the area. Whatever containment value the pact might have had was lost when the Soviets 'leap-frogged' the member states, establishing close military and political relationships with governments in Egypt, Syria, Iraq, the People's Democratic Republic of Yemen, Somalia, and Libya. By 1970, the USSR had deployed over 20,000 troops to Egypt, and had established naval bases in Syria, Somalia, and P.D.R. Yemen.\n\nThe Iranian revolution spelled the end of the organization in 1979, but in reality, it essentially had been finished since 1974, when Turkey invaded Cyprus. This led the United Kingdom to withdraw forces that had been earmarked to the alliance, and the United States Congress halted Turkish military aid despite two Presidential vetoes. With the fall of the Iranian monarchy, whatever remaining rationale for the organization was lost. Future U.S. and British defense agreements with regional countries—such as Pakistan, Egypt, and the Persian Gulf states—were conducted bilaterally.\n\nWith the withdrawal of Iran, the secretary-general of CENTO, Turkish diplomat Kamran Gurun, announced on March 16, 1979, that he would call a meeting of the pact's council in order to formally dissolve the organization.\n\n\nA Secretary General, appointed by the council of ministers for a renewable three years, oversaw CENTO activities. Secretaries general were:\n\nCENTO sponsored a railway line, some of which was completed, to enable a rail connexion between London and Tehran via Van. A section from Lake Van in Turkey to Sharafkhaneh in Iran was completed and funded in large part by CENTO (mainly the US and UK). The civil engineering was especially challenging because of the difficult terrain. Part of the route included a rail ferry across Lake Van with a terminal at Tatvan on the Western side of the lake. Notable features of the railway on the Iranian side included 125 bridges, among them the Towering Quotor span, measuring in length, spanning a gorge deep.\n\nLike its counterparts NATO and SEATO, CENTO sponsored a number of cultural and scientific research institutions:\n\nThe institutions supported a wide range of non-military activities, with a particular focus on agriculture and development, In 1960, for example, CENTO had funded 37 projects covering agriculture, education, health, economic development and transportation. It also arranged at least one symposium on the problem of foot-and-mouth and rinderpest.\n\nThe organisation that became the CENTO Institute of Nuclear Science was established by Western powers in the Baghdad Pact, as CENTO was then known. It was initially located in Baghdad, Iraq, but was relocated to Tehran, Iran in 1958 after Iraq withdrew from CENTO. Students from Pakistan and Turkey as well as those from Iran were trained at the Institute.\n\nThe CENTO Scientific Council organized a number of scientific symposia and other events, including a meeting in Lahore, Pakistan, in 1962, entitled \"The Role of Science in the Development of Natural Resources with Particular Reference to Pakistan, Iran and Turkey\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "31171753", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31171753", "title": "Chief Scientific Officer (England)", "text": "Chief Scientific Officer (England)\n\nThe Chief Scientific Officer in England is the head of profession for the 53,000 healthcare scientists working in the National Health Service and its associated bodies.\n\nThe Chief Scientific Officer is one of the six NHS professional officers (including the Chief Medical Officer and Chief Nursing Officer) who are employed within NHS England. These roles lead their own professional groups as well as providing expert knowledge about their specific disciplines to the NHS and wider health and care system.\n\nThe Chief Scientific Officer provides professional leadership and expert clinical advice across the health system, as well as working alongside senior clinical leaders within NHS England and the broader commissioning system. The Chief Scientific Officer is also responsibility for delivering the Government's strategy for a modernised healthcare science workforce, Modernising Scientific Careers.\n\nProfessor Sue Hill OBE has been the Chief Scientific Officer since October 2002 first within the Department of Health and subsequently NHS England . The role was strengthened in March 2013 with the appointment of a Deputy Chief Scientific Officer.\n"}
{"id": "6905430", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6905430", "title": "Chris Buttars", "text": "Chris Buttars\n\nD. Chris Buttars (April 1, 1942 – September 10, 2018) was an American politician who served in the Utah State Senate representing the 10th Utah Senate District. He began his service as a state senator in 2001 and resigned in 2011 citing health problems.\n\nButtars was born in Logan, Utah on April 1, 1942, and graduated from Utah State University with a B.S. in Marketing/Economics in 1967. Upon graduating from Utah State University he was employed at Amoco Oil Company from 1967 to 1976 as a Retail Sales Manager. In 1976 he became the Executive Director of the Petroleum Retails Organization. He was director of the Utah Boys Ranch, now known as West Ridge Academy, a boarding school for boys.\n\nButtars is married to Helen, and is the father of six and currently lives in West Jordan, Utah. He successfully ran for the West Jordan City Council in 1970, and served on the City Council until 1983. Buttars ran for the Utah Senate in 2000, and served as Utah State Senator for district 10 from 2001 to 2011. Buttars has served in various Republican Party leadership positions. Buttars is also a recipient of the Boy Scouts of America's Silver Beaver award for distinguished service to the BSA. He died in 2018 after a period of declining health.\n\nButtars sponsored legislation against gay straight alliances in public schools, introduced a resolution urging companies to have their employees say \"Merry Christmas\" rather than \"Happy Holidays\" to customers, as well as an Intelligent Design Bill. Buttars sponsored legislation to fund drug treatment programs, supported raising the minimum wage and assisting child crime victims.\n\nIn February, 2010, Buttars proposed eliminating the 12th grade from Utah high schools to close a budget shortfall.\n\nDuring the 2006 General Session of the 56th Utah State Legislature Buttars sponsored S.B. 96, an Intelligent Design Bill. The bill would allow instructors to teach students that evolution is a controversial theory and counter it with the pseudoscience of Creationism, using the term \"Divine Design.\" The New York Times called the bill \"Anti-Darwin\" and critics have pointed to Buttars' words \"Divine Design\" as evidence for its religious undertow. The bill passed in the Senate but failed in the House of Representatives.\n\nIn an interview with radio hosts Tom Grover & Ryan Yonk, Buttars said that he \"[doesn't] know of an example where the minority is being jeopardized by legislative action.\" When Grover mentioned \"Brown v. Board of Education,\" which desegregated American schools, Buttars responded that he thought \"\"Brown v. Board of Education\" is wrong to begin with.\" In response to public reaction to his statements and accusations of racism, Buttars responded, \"I don't think there's a racial [sic] bone in my body...\" and \"I don't see black and white. I see people. I always have.\"\n\nDuring a debate of a school-funding bill on the floor of the State Senate in February 2008, the bill's sponsor compared the bill to the baby involved in the Biblical story of King Solomon. Buttars responded saying, \"This baby is black, I'll tell you. This is a dark, ugly thing.\" Buttars apologized for a remark on the State Senate floor, saying, \"I got a little carried away, and I made a comment that I think a lot of people could take as racist. I certainly did not mean that in any way, but it was wrong and could easily be taken in just that way. I apologize to anyone who took offense.\" In an interview, Buttars said, \"We live in a very, very sensitive world. Although what I said had literally nothing in my mind to do with a human being at all — we were talking about an ugly bill — I made a statement that could be easily misinterpreted, and it was.\" Accusations of racism were made an issue in his 2008 re-election bid against Democrat John Rendell. Less than six months after Buttars' re-election, he was recorded saying of the ACLU, \"bless their black little hearts,\" in an interview with documentary maker and former KTVX ABC 4 reporter Reed Cowan. Cowan’s documentary is called, \".\"\n\nButtars was outspoken on issues dealing with homosexuality, and co-sponsored Utah Constitutional Amendment 3 with Utah Boys Ranch colleague LaVar Christensen, which defined marriage in Utah as consisting \"only of the legal union between a man and a woman.\" Buttars criticized the domestic partnership executive order signed by Salt Lake City Mayor Rocky Anderson. Buttars also introduced legislation that would ban gay clubs and gay-straight alliances in public schools. In 2008 Salt Lake City's newly elected Mayor Ralph Becker introduced a domestic partnership registry that was unanimously approved by the City Council. On February 11, 2008 Buttars introduced a counter bill, SB0267, designed to prevent cities or counties from operating any kind of domestic partnership registry, on the grounds that such registries would violate Utah Constitutional Amendment 3's ban on same-sex marriage and domestic unions. The bill failed.\n\nIn a January 2009 interview with openly gay documentary filmmaker Reed Cowan, for the documentary \"8: The Mormon Proposition\", Buttars said that gays and lesbians were \"the greatest threat to America going down,\" comparing members of the LGBT community to radical Muslims. \"I believe they will destroy the foundation of the American society,\" he said.\nOn February 20, 2009, Buttars was removed as chairman and member of the Utah State Senate Judicial Standing Committee because of these remarks. Democrats pushed for further sanctions, demanding his removal from the Rules Committee and for his demotion on the Health and Human Services Committee.\nThe Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints issued a statement urging \"civil and respectful dialogue.\" It said, \"From the outset, the Church's position has always been to engage in civil and respectful dialogue on this issue. Senator Buttars does not speak for the church.\" \n\n"}
{"id": "53802292", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53802292", "title": "Code of the West (2012 film)", "text": "Code of the West (2012 film)\n\nCode of the West is an American 2012 documentary film directed by Rebecca Richman Cohen about the 2010 campaign to repeal Montana's legalization of medical marijuana.\n\n"}
{"id": "42224797", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42224797", "title": "Comprehensive Agreement on the Bangsamoro", "text": "Comprehensive Agreement on the Bangsamoro\n\nThe Comprehensive Agreement on Bangsamoro (CAB) is a final peace agreement signed between the Government of the Philippines and the Moro Islamic Liberation Front on 27 March 2014 at the Malacañang Palace in Manila. Under the agreement, the Islamic separatists would turn over their firearms to a third party, which would be selected by the rebels and the Philippine government. The MILF agreed to decommission its armed wing, the Bangsamoro Islamic Armed Forces (BIAF). In return, the government would establish an autonomous Bangsamoro. Power sharing was a central point to the autonomy redesign.\n\nThe current ARMM charter lists 14 areas that are outside the powers of the regional legislature. In this comprehensive peace agreement, the parties lists 81 powers categorized into reserved for the central government, exclusive to the Bangsamoro, and concurrent with or shared by the two sides for power sharing. Of the 81 powers, 58 are devolved to the Bangsamoro, nine are reserved to the central government, and 14 are shared. The Framework Agreement on the Bangsamoro and Four annexes, namely on Transitional Arrangements and Modalities, Revenue Generation and Wealth Sharing, Power Sharing and Normalization, together with the Addendum on Bangsamoro Waters, will be included in the comprehensive agreement. The Armed Forces of the Philippines has raised red alert status on 24 March in preparation for the event. Philippine President Benigno Aquino III, MILF chair Hadji Murad Ibrahim, and Malaysian Prime Minister Najib Razak are among the key people expected to be present at the signing of the agreement.\n\nIn pursuit of their goal of liberating Bangsamoro, the MNLF engaged the government forces in extensive armed collisions, peaking in the early 70s when the rebels’ blitz-like operations brought them control of a substantial number of municipalities surrounding Cotabato City and its airport complex. This prompted the Marcos regime to beef up military presence by deploying almost three-fourths of the army in most Muslim parts of Mindanao. Things took a different turn in 1976 when Libyan leader Muammar Gaddafi brokered an agreement that led to the signing of the Tripoli Agreement introducing the concept of an autonomous Muslim region in Mindanao. On 1 August 1989, under the mandate of the new 1987 Constitution, Congress enacted Republic Act 6734 authorizing the creation of the Autonomous Region in Muslim Mindanao (ARMM). However, out of the 13 provinces and 9 cities that participated in the plebiscite, only the provinces of Lanao del Sur, Maguindanao, Sulu, and Tawi-Tawi opted to become part of the ARMM. The ARMM was formally established on 6 November 1990.\n\nInstead of bringing the Muslim leaders together, this agreement further fragmented the MNLF, because some factions within the group preferred independence over autonomy. Thus, a group of officers led by Hashim Salamat broke away and formed the Moro Islamic Liberation Front (MILF) to continue their armed struggle for an independent Bangsamoro (Moro nation) in Mindanao.\n\nThough the combined strength of these two rebel forces has not reached a point of posing any real threat to the government in Manila, their existence—and the reasons for their resilience—certainly brings lots of headaches for the government. For nearly five decades, five presidents have tried to completely end these two rebellions, utilizing both force and diplomacy. So far, no combination has succeeded. Perhaps the most remarkable effort to bring closure to these movements was that of the Ramos Administration, which tried to reach out to both the communist and Muslim rebels through peaceful means. There were many efforts to reach peace with Islamist separatists.\n\nOn 15 October 2012, the Philippine government signed a much-hyped document touted as the Framework Agreement on the Bangsamoro, which culminated the Aquino Administration's effort to end the deadlock in the peace process. This new document, while merely providing for a general framework for the actual peace negotiations, announced that \"the status quo is unacceptable and that the Bangsamoro shall be established to replace the Autonomous Region in Muslim Mindanao (ARMM). The Bangsamoro was the new autonomous political entity (NPE) referred to in the Decision Points of Principles as of April 2012.\"\nAccording to President Aquino, this was the agreement that could \"finally seal genuine, lasting peace in Mindanao.\" with Bangsamoro replacing ARMM which was described by President Benigno Aquino III as \"a failed experiment\".\n\nThe peace talks between the MILF and the Philippine government had been brokered by Malaysia since 1997. After 2009, the negotiations were also supported by an International Contact Group(the ICG). The ICG represented an innovation in peace process support, in that it was a hybrid body composed of both states and international non-governmental organisations (INGOs). The members were Turkey, Saudi Arabia, the United Kingdom, and Japan, The Asia Foundation, the Centre for Humanitarian Dialogue, Muhammadiyah, and Conciliation Resources. When the Asia Foundation became an official member of the Third Party Monitoring Team in 2012, the Community of San’Egidio from Italy replaced the Asia Foundation in the ICG.\n\nOn 24 January 2014, Philippine government chief negotiator Miriam Coronel Ferer and MILF chief negotiator Mohagher Iqbal signed a peace agreement in Kuala Lumpur. The agreement would pave the way for the creation of the new Muslim autonomous entity called \"Bangsamoro\" under a law to be approved by the Philippine Congress.\n\nThe government aims to set up the region by 2016. The agreement calls for Muslim self-rule in parts of the southern Philippines in exchange for a deactivation of rebel forces by the MILF. MILF forces would turn over their firearms to a third party to selected by the MILF and the Philippine government. A regional police force would be established, and the Philippine military would reduce the presence of troops and help disband private armies in the area.\nIn the Agreement, the government committed to change a 37-year autonomy experiment whose current version, the Autonomous Region in Muslim Mindanao (ARMM), has failed to live up to the Moro people’s aspiration for freedom from a highly centralized government.\n"}
{"id": "29955829", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29955829", "title": "Confucius Peace Prize", "text": "Confucius Peace Prize\n\nThe Confucius Peace Prize () is a Chinese alternative to the Nobel Peace Prize established in 2010 by the Association of Chinese Indigenous Arts in the People's Republic of China (PRC), in response to a proposal by business person Liu Zhiqin on November 17, 2010. The chairman of the committee said that the award existed to \"promote world peace from an Eastern perspective\", and Confucian peace specifically. The winner purportedly receives a cash prize of ¥100,000 RMB (US$15,000). Despite an attempt by China's Ministry of Culture to ban the prize in September 2011, the original organizers re-established in Hong Kong as the \"China International Peace Research Center\", awarding the prize to Vladimir Putin in November 2011, to Kofi Annan and Yuan Longping in 2012, to Fidel Castro in 2014, to Robert Mugabe in 2015 and Hun Sen in 2017. The Chinese government has denied having any connections with the prize.\n\nThe Confucius Peace Prize originated as a response to the announcement that Chinese dissident Liu Xiaobo had won the 2010 Nobel Peace Prize; the awarding of the prize to Liu was viewed negatively in China, with some in the government arguing that Liu did not promote \"international friendship, disarmament, and peace meetings\", the stated goals of the Nobel Peace Prize. Competing groups staked claims to its founding, and some have links to the Ministry of Culture.\n\nAccording to \"The New York Times\", Liu Zhiqin, a prominent Chinese scholar and banker, was the first to propose the prize, in a commentary in the \"Global Times\". Liu's commentary stated, \"The Nobel Peace Prize Committee won Liu Xiaobo while losing the trust of 1.3 billion Chinese people. They support a criminal while creating 1.3 billion 'dissidents' that are dissatisfied with the Nobel Committee, which is definitely a bad decision. ... China's civil society should consider setting up a 'Confucius Peace Prize', launching the evaluation and selection and finding the real Peace Prize winners from all over the world. This is the best opportunity for the Chinese to declare China's view in peace and human rights to the world.\"\n\nThe Association of Chinese Indigenous Arts, which is registered with the Chinese Cultural Ministry, awarded the first prize to Taiwanese politician Lien Chan in December 2010, for his contribution to developing positive ties between Taiwan and mainland China. Lien never claimed the prize. China's Minister of Culture talked to the \"United Daily News\" in Taipei and stated they had never heard of this prize for Lien Chan until there was newspaper coverage. The Hong Kong newspaper \"Ming Pao\" reported that the letter issued by the committee to Lien Chan did not have the Ministry of Culture's official seal. The award, consisting of a small sculpture and a bundle of banknotes, was collected by a young girl in front of an audience of some 100 journalists. In the jostling, one group tried to create the \"Confucius World Peace Prize\" to rival the \"Confucius Peace Prize\".\n\nIn September 2011, the Ministry of Culture stated that it would be disbanding the organizers of Confucius Peace Prize and cancelling the prize. The Ministry stated in a news conference on September 17 that there was improper uses of the Ministry's name. The Association of Chinese Indigenous Arts was quick to blame a \"rogue department\" for the debacle surrounding the award.\n\nDespite the cancellation, on November 15, 2011, \"The Guardian\" reported that the original organizers had formed a new committee, the China International Peace Studies Center, in Hong Kong, where they awarded the second Confucius Peace Prize to Russian prime minister Vladimir Putin. Other contenders were Angela Merkel, Bill Gates, Jacob Zuma, Kofi Annan, Yuan Longping, Gyaincain Norbu (one of the Panchen Lamas), and Soong Chu-yu. Putin won for his opposition to NATO involvement in the Libyan Civil War as well as his decision to go to war in Chechnya in 1999. According to the committee, Putin's \"Iron hand and toughness revealed in this war impressed the Russians a lot, and he was regarded to be capable of bringing safety and stability to Russia.\" Putin was also praised for fulfilling his childhood dream of joining the KGB. The 2011 award, a gilded statuette of Confucius was given out on December 9 along with a certificate, although the committee did not mention a cash prize. The award ceremony featured a speech by Kong Qingdong. Kong claimed that the award accurately reflects Confucius's original vision of peace.\n\nThe prize initially carried a financial reward of CNY100,000, and has been awarded at the same time as the Nobel Peace Prize. In 2012, the China International Peace Studies Centre boasted that the new reward of $1.5 million – mostly derived from sales of works of the committee chairman's, Qiao Damo – was \"more than the US$1.2 million that the recipient of this year's Nobel Peace Prize, will receive\". However, \"The Guardian\" reported in 2015 that the cash prize was worth CNY500,000 (£51,000).\n\nThe shortlist for the 2012 award consisted of previous nominees Kofi Annan, Bill Gates, agricultural scientist Yuan Longping, and Gyancain Norbu, as well as Ban Ki-moon, Thai prime minister Yingluck Shinawatra, Chinese philosopher Tang Yijie, and Wang Dingguo, the last surviving female participant in Mao Zedong's Long March. Due to a tie in the voting, the committee announced that Annan and Yuan would share the award.\n\nZen master Yicheng was awarded the 2013 prize for his work as chairman of the Buddhist Association of China and his contribution for Chinese Buddhism. As an addition to the Peace Prize in 2013 the first Confucius Art Prize was awarded. A gold medal was for calligrapher Ouyang Zhongshi and silver medals for Yang Lin and Hou Mingming.\n\nThe \"Global Times\" reported that nominees included former Cuban president, Fidel Castro, South Korean President Park Geun-hye and the UN Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon. The 2014 recipient of the prize was Castro, who when leader of Cuba, \"never used any violence or force when faced with problems and conflicts in international relations, especially in Cuba's relationship with the United States.\" Castro's prize was received by a Cuban student in China.\n\nNominated for the award in 2015 were the Chinese Taoist Association, Ban Ki-moon, former Japanese prime ministers Yasuo Fukuda and Tomiichi Murayama, Kazakhstan president Nursultan Nazarbayev, Bill Gates, Chinese-American politician Anna Chennault, South Korean president Park Geun-hye, Hsing Yun of the Fo Guang Shan Buddhist movement in Taiwan, and Robert Mugabe of Zimbabwe. Mugabe was eventually declared the winner for \"working tirelessly to build the political and economic stability of his country, bringing peace to the people of Zimbabwe, strongly supporting pan-Africanism and African independence, and making unparalleled contributions for the renaissance of African civilisation.\" One of the committee's 76 members disclosed that only 36 voted for Mugabe over concerns for his record, saying that \"Mugabe has been in power for such a long time that he could be easily be labelled a dictator, tyrant or despot.\" Mugabe, who made a speech to the United Nations that day in which he declared that \"we are not gays\", did not collect his prize.\n\nThe award drew out critics of Mugabe and his human rights record. An unofficial spokesman said that the Chinese government had notified Zimbabwe that it was not associated with the conferring organisation. Mugabe repudiated the award, a spokesman saying that he \"receives many prizes without even knowing, approving or receiving them. What is dramatic in this case is that oppositional interests drew a revolver at the mentioning of an honour or prize to Robert Mugabe. That is what Hitler did when someone mentioned ‘culture’ to him\".\n\nThe prize for 2016 was awarded posthumously to three Chinese peacekeepers who were killed while serving on United Nations peacekeeping missions in Mali and South Sudan. Shen Liangliang was killed while serving on the mission in Mali on May 31, 2016 while Yang Shupeng and Li Lei were killed while serving on the mission in South Sudan on July 10, 2016.\n\nCandidates for the 2017 prize were Hun Sen, Gyaincain Norbu, Rodrigo Duterte, Bashar al-Assad, Angela Merkel, Hsing Yun, the Chinese Taoist Association, Xuecheng, Pope Francis, and Yancan. The Prime Minister of Cambodia Hun Sen was announced to be the winner.\n\nChinese sources have not treated the prize seriously. The Ministry of Culture of the People's Republic of China denied any cooperation with the Association of Chinese Indigenous Arts to present the prize, stating that prior to foreign press reports, the Ministry \"had never even heard of the name\". The ministry added that \"the government is very careful\" and \"if the government genuinely intended to establish a 'Confucius Peace prize', it would not have been implemented so sloppily.\" Mainland media did not widely report about the prize in 2010, with journalists claiming that they had come across neither the organization nor the prize, believing it to be \"闹剧\" (a farce).\n\nNetizens in Mainland China responded to the Prize with widespread humour as well as derision, referring to the prize organizers as \"bullheaded dreaming idiots\", \"jokes\", and \"embarrassments to Chinese\", as well as suspicion that the prize was a practical joke.\n\nThe Confucius Peace Prize's first winner, Lien Chan, claimed he had not officially heard that he had won; an aide said that they had only received \"secondhand information from journalists\". This contradicted a statement in the \"Global Times\" by the chairman of the Confucius Peace Prize Committee, Tan Liuchang, that Lien had been contacted by the committee. Tsai Chi-chang, a spokesperson for the opposition Democratic Progressive Party in Taiwan, said the award should not be taken seriously.\n\nOfficials from the Taiwanese government are reported to have found the award of the Confucius Peace Prize to Lien Chan \"amusing\". \nWhen asked by a reporter about the prize, a spokesman for Vladimir Putin said that he had heard about the award through the press, but that \"we do not know much about the prize.\"\n\nWestern media, however, have reacted to the prize as genuine. \"The Economist\" compared the substitute award to the reaction by Nazi Germany and the creation of the German National Prize for Art and Science after Carl von Ossietzky was prohibited from accepting his Nobel Prize in 1935, as well as the Soviet Union preventing Andrei Sakharov from accepting his Nobel Peace Prize in 1975. \"National Review\" likewise compared the prize to Hitler's and Stalin's responses to the Nobel Peace Prize. \"Slate\" has described the prize as \"[s]omething of a trolling exercise\".\n\nThe \"Global Times\" reported that the five 2011 nominees were selected based on their being the winners of an online poll. However, when asked about the details of the online vote, the organizer said they failed to carry it out because of \"technical problems\", The \"South China Morning Post\" reported.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "46366812", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46366812", "title": "Cygilant", "text": "Cygilant\n\nCygilant, Inc, (originally named EiQ Networks, Inc.), is a Boston-based security software-as-a-service (SaaS) company focused on information security and compliance objectives. \nEiQ Networks’ origins are in analysis of log files across web servers, file servers, firewalls and other network devices, but moved into the security information and event management (SIEM) market.\n\nEiQ Networks, Inc. was founded in 2001. EiQ Networks’ global headquarters are in Boston, Massachusetts, with additional in Hyderabad, India. EiQ Networks is a closely held private company. The company completed its first institutional round raising $10 million in January 2009 led by Venrock. The company received an additional $2 million in September 2010 and also raised $750,000 in debt financing in June 2012. Santa Monica-based Arrowroot Capital invested into EiQ Networks in 2014, and the Company has since experienced substantially higher growth rates driven by the ramp-up in the company's inside sales organization. EiQ Networks was co-founded by Vijay Basani and Jay Reddy. In September 2017, the company announced that it has raised an additional $7 Million in funding and would rebrand as Cygilant, Inc. Prior to founding EiQ Networks, Basani and Reddy co-founded WebManage Technologies, which was acquired by NetApp in 2000.\n\nOn Feb. 8th 2018 the company mocked and insulted several security researchers on Twitter. They also tweeted \"Thanks for the free marketing, kids! #HowYouDoMarketing\". Later the tweets were deleted and the company apologized.\n\n"}
{"id": "1984677", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1984677", "title": "Democratic Party of Albanians", "text": "Democratic Party of Albanians\n\nThe Democratic Party of Albanians (; , \"Demokratska Partija na Albancite\") or DPA is a political party of ethnic Albanians in the Republic of Macedonia. The DPA is a merger of the Party for Democratic Prosperity of Albanians (PDPA) and the People's Democratic Party (NDP) which took place in June 1997. The former party was established in 1994 after some radical members of the Party for Democratic Prosperity, led by Menduh Thaçi and Arbën Xhaferi, left the PDP and the latter party was founded in August 1990 as a more radical opponent of the PDP.\n\nAt the 2002 legislative elections, the party won 5.2% of the popular vote and 7 out of 120 seats. The party lost its status as a government party due to the defeat of the VMRO-DPMNE. At the 2006 parliamentary elections, the party increased its support, winning 7.5% of the vote and 11 seats. After the elections the DPA entered the government coalition led by the VMRO-DPMNE. DPA returned to opposition after the 2008 legislative early election.\n\nIn the 2011 parliamentary election, DPA received 5.9% of the popular vote, winning 8 seats. This is a loss of 3 seats from the previous election.\n\n"}
{"id": "8017933", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8017933", "title": "Diana Leafe Christian", "text": "Diana Leafe Christian\n\nDiana Leafe Christian is an author, former editor of \"Communities\" magazine, and nationwide speaker and workshop presenter on starting new ecovillages, on building communities, and on sustainability. She lives in an off-grid homestead at Earthaven Ecovillage in the Blue Ridge Mountains of North Carolina, U.S. She has said that living in an intentional community \"is the longest, most expensive, personal growth workshop you will ever take.\"\n\nChristian grew up in Los Angeles. She learned to write at what she calls a \"real-life school of writing\". \n\nChristian is the author of two books designed to help people who want to join or start their own ecovillages or other intentional communities. In \"Creating a Life Together: Practical Tools to Grow Ecovillages and Intentional Communities\", she uses success stories, cautionary tales, and step-by-step advice to cover typical time-frames and costs; the role of founders; getting started as a group; vision documents; power, governance, and decision-making; legal structures; finding and financing land; zoning issues; sustainable site plans; selecting new members; and good process and communication skills for dealing well with conflict.\n\nIn \"Finding Community: How to Join an Ecovillage or Intentional Community\", she covers researching, visiting, evaluating, and joining communities.\n\nDuring the 1970s and 80s Christian wrote articles for \"New Age\" magazine, \"Yoga Journal\", and \"East West Journal\". She hosted radio interview programs in Hawaii and in northern California.\n\nIn the early 1990s Christian published a newsletter, \"Growing Community\", about starting new communities. From 1993 to 2007 she was editor of \"Communities\" magazine, a quarterly publication of the nonprofit Fellowship for Intentional Community (FIC), about intentional communities and organized neighborhoods in North America.\n\nChristian speaks, leads workshops, and shows slide presentations on ecovillages in the US and Canada, including Ecovillage Training Center at The Farm in Tennessee, Los Angeles Eco-Village, Lost Valley Educational Center in Oregon, O.U.R. Ecovillage in British Columbia, and Easton Mountain Center in New York. At a 2015 engagement, she spoke on the application of permaculture design principles to ecovillages' financial, legal, and social aspects, in San Diego.\n\nShe has led workshops at the North American Cohousing Conference, Twin Oaks Communities Conference, and FIC's Art of Community gathering. Her articles on ecovillages and intentional communities have appeared in publications ranging from \"Mother Earth News\" to Canada's \"This Magazine\". She has been quoted in \"The New York Times\", \"Harper's\" magazine, and \"AARP Magazine\", and has been interviewed by \"Vision\" magazine, New Dimensions Radio, NPR, and the BBC.\n\n"}
{"id": "6850863", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6850863", "title": "Electoralism", "text": "Electoralism\n\nElectoralism is a term first used by Terry Karl, professor of political science at Stanford University, to describe a \"half-way\" transition from authoritarian rule toward democratic rule. As a topic in the dominant party system political science literature, electoralism describes a situation where the transition out of hard-authoritarian rule is initiated and managed by the incumbent regime. However, due to the dominant position of the incumbent regime throughout the transition process, the transition fails to attain the institutional qualities of liberal democracy. Other terms, such as guided transition or managed transition have been used to describe this process.\n\nUnder electoralism, the regime essentially conducts the electoral aspects of democratic governance in a relatively 'free and fair' manner. Massive acts of voting fraud and election-day intimidation are essentially absent. However, other features of democracy, such as the rule of law and institutional separation of powers, are absent under electoralism. The entire election process is skewed in favor of the incumbent regime. The media tends to ignore or paint the opposition in a negative light, the high court and election commission tends to make judgements in favor of the incumbent, and on some occasions, opposition rallies are denied or canceled by the police.\n\nSome examples include:\n\nGiliomee, Herman and Charles Simkins (eds). (1999). The Awkward Embrace: One-Party Domination and Democracy. Overseas Publisher Association.\n"}
{"id": "19771446", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19771446", "title": "European Alliance (Kosovo)", "text": "European Alliance (Kosovo)\n\nEuropean Alliance is a political party in Republic of Kosovo supports Independence for Kosovo and EU Integration. This means the EUA:European alliance wants Kosovo to be a full UN and EU member by 2011. The leader of this party, Merlin Harrington (German -Albanian), is a pro-Euro Kosovo. The party is in coalition with the LDK and PDK and Kosovar Party. They won 34% in elections.\n\nEuropean Alliance : EUA\nDemocratic League of Kosovo: LDK\nDemocratic Party of Kosovo: PDK\nKosovar Party :KVP\n"}
{"id": "25681121", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25681121", "title": "Financial transaction tax", "text": "Financial transaction tax\n\nA financial transaction tax is a levy on a specific type of financial transaction for a particular purpose. The concept has been most commonly associated with the financial sector; it is not usually considered to include consumption taxes paid by consumers.\n\nA transaction tax is not a levy on financial institutions per se; rather, it is charged only on the specific transactions that are designated as taxable. So if an institution never carries out the taxable transaction, then it will never be subject to the transaction tax. Furthermore, if an institution carries out only one such transaction, then it will only be taxed for that one transaction. As such, this tax is neither a financial activities tax (FAT), nor a Financial stability contribution (FSC), or \"bank tax\", for example. This clarification is important in discussions about using a financial transaction tax as a tool to selectively discourage excessive speculation without discouraging any other activity (as John Maynard Keynes originally envisioned it in 1936).\n\nThere are several types of financial transaction taxes. Each has its own purpose. Some have been implemented, while some are only proposals. Concepts are found in various organizations and regions around the world. Some are domestic and meant to be used within one nation; whereas some are multinational. In 2011 there were 40 countries that made use of FTT, together raising $38 billion (€29bn).\n\nThe year 1694 saw an early implementation of a financial transaction tax in the form of a stamp duty at the London Stock Exchange. The tax was payable by the buyer of shares for the official stamp on the legal document needed to formalize the purchase. , it is the oldest tax still in existence in Great Britain.\n\nThe United States instituted a transfer tax on all sales or transfers of stock in The Revenue Act of 1914 (Act of 22 October 1914 (ch. 331, 38 Stat. 745)). Instead of a fixed tax amount per transaction, the tax was in the amount of 0.2% of the transaction value (20 basis points, bips). This was doubled to 0.4% (40 bips) in 1932, in the context of the Great Depression, then eliminated in 1966.\n\nIn 1936, in the wake of the Great Depression, John Maynard Keynes advocated the wider use of financial transaction taxes. He proposed the levying of a small transaction tax on dealings on Wall Street, in the United States, where he argued excessive speculation by uninformed financial traders increased volatility (see Keynes financial transaction tax below).\n\nIn 1972 the Bretton Woods system for stabilizing currencies effectively came to an end. In that context, James Tobin, influenced by the work of Keynes, suggested his more specific currency transaction tax for stabilizing currencies on a larger global scale.\n\nIn 1989, at the Buenos Aires meetings of the International Institute of Public Finance, University of Wisconsin-Madison Professor of Economics Edgar L. Feige proposed extending the tax reform ideas of John Maynard Keynes, James Tobin and Lawrence Summers, to their logical conclusion, namely to tax all transactions. Feige's Automated Payment Transaction tax \"(APT tax)\" proposed taxing the broadest possible tax base at the lowest possible tax rate. Since financial transactions account for the greatest component of the APT tax base, and since all financial transactions are taxed, the proposal eliminates substitution possibilities for evasion and avoidance. The goal of the APT tax is to significantly improve economic efficiency, enhance stability in financial markets, and reduce to a minimum the costs of tax administration (assessment, collection, and compliance costs). The Automated Payment Transaction tax proposal was presented to the President's Advisory Panel on Federal Tax Reform in 2005.\nAs the EU, European free trade and Euro came together, various financial transaction taxes were considered openly. One non-tax regulatory equivalent of Tobin's narrow tax, to require \"non-interest bearing deposit requirements on all open foreign exchange positions\", was considered in particularly but rejected. During the 1980s the Chicago School view became dominant, that speculation served a vital purpose in keeping currencies accurately reflecting the prospects of their economies, and that even very short term transactions in response to news could in fact reflect fundamental analysis.\n\nEconomic literature of the period 1990s-2000s emphasized that derivatives and other variations in the terms of payment in trade-related transactions (so-called \"swaps\" for instance) provided a ready means of evading any tax other than the Automated Payment Transaction tax since it uniformly taxed all transactions. Other measures and exemptions from such transaction taxes, to avoid punishing hedging (a form of insurance for cashflows) were also proposed. These tended to lead to generally more complex schemes that were not implemented, in part due to lack of standardization of risk reporting under the Basel I framework, which was itself a response to 1980s financial speculation crises.\n\nHowever, disclosure had not kept pace with practices. Regulators and policy-makers and theorists by the 1990s had to deal with increasingly complex financial engineering and the \"avoidance by change of product mix... market participants would have an incentive to substitute out of financial instruments subject to the tax and into instruments not subject to it. In this fashion, markets would innovate so as to avoid the tax\" as they were doing with the creation of financial derivatives. \"The real issue is how to design a tax that takes account of all the methods and margins of substitution that investors have for changing their patterns of activity to avoid the tax. [as] suggested by Pollin et al. (1999).\" - Palley, 2000 The global adoption of a small flat rate Automated Payment Transaction tax whose base included all transactions would eliminate evasion and avoidance possibilities since the tax would apply equally at all substitution margins. \nAdvocates including Pollin, Palley and Baker (2000) emphasized that transaction taxes \"have clearly not prevented the efficient functioning of\" financial markets in the 20th century.\n\nMany theorists raised the issue that hedging and speculation were more of a spectrum than a distinct duality of goals. \"Academic studies (e.g. Bodnar et al, 1998) show that companies usually incorporate predictions of future price levels (i.e. a ‘view’) when executing hedges (a fact which will come as no surprise to most risk management practitioners). If hedging is really just about reducing risk, then why should our expectations of future market direction have any bearing on our hedging decisions? If we hedge 50% of our exposure, instead of 80% or 100%, because we feel that the price / rate of the underlying exposure is more likely to move in our favour, does this meet the criteria for speculation?...On one level (at the extremes), there is no doubt that hedging and speculation are very different activities. However, once you move beyond the straightforward elimination of open positions, into more nuanced transactions involving complex hedging strategies or tenuous relationships between hedges and exposures, the distinction between a hedge and a bet becomes increasingly vague.\"\n\nTo avoid this problem, most proposals emphasized taxing clearly speculative high-volume very-short-term (seconds to hours) transactions that could not in general reflect any change of fundamental exposure or cashflow expectation. Some of these emphasized the automated nature of the trade. FTT proposals often emerge in response to specific crisis. For example, the December 1994 Mexican peso crisis reduced confidence in its currency. In that context, Paul Bernd Spahn re-examined the Tobin tax, opposed its original form, and instead proposed his own version in 1995.\n\nIn the context of the financial crisis of 2007–2008, many economists, governments, and organizations around the world re-examined, or were asked to re-examine, the concept of a financial transaction tax, or its various forms. As a result, various new forms of financial transaction taxes were proposed, such as the EU financial transaction tax. The outcry after this crisis had major political, legal and economic fallout. By the 2010s the Basel II and Basel III frameworks required reporting that would help to differentiate hedging from speculation. Economic thought was tending to reject the belief that they could not be differentiated, or (as the \"Chicago School\" had held) should not be. However, even Basel III did not require detailed enough disclosure of risk to enable a clear differentiation of hedging vs. speculation.\n\nAs another example of an FTT proposal as a warning to speculators, or as response to crisis, in March 2016 China drafted rules to impose a genuine currency transaction tax and this was referred to in financial press as a Tobin tax . This was widely viewed as a warning to curb shorting of its currency the yuan. It was however expected to keep this tax at 0% initially, calculating potential revenue from different rate schemes and exemptions, and not to impose the actual tax unless speculation increased.\n\nAlso in 2016 US Democratic Party POTUS nominee Hillary Clinton asserted that speculation had \"placed stress on our markets, created instability, and enabled unfair and abusive trading strategies\" and that as POTUS she would seek to \"impose a tax on harmful high-frequency trading and reform rules to make our stock markets fairer, more open, and transparent.\". However, the term \"high-frequency\" implied that only a few large volume transaction players engaged in arbitrage would likely be affected. In this respect, Clinton was following the general 1990s trend to focus on automated transactions in particular, those which could not reflect any genuine human-reviewed fundamental risk or hedge analysis.\n\nShe also vowed to \"Impose a risk fee on the largest financial institutions. Big banks and financial companies would be required to pay a fee based on their size and their risk of contributing to another crisis.\" How such fees would be assessed, and whether they amounted to a tax, were an active topic of speculation in the financial community, which expected them to follow Basel III definitions with further refinements.\n\nAlthough every financial transaction tax (FTT) proposal has its own specific intended purpose, there are some general intended purposes which are common to most of them. Below are some of those general commonalities. The intended purpose may or may not be achieved.\n\nIn 1936, when Keynes first proposed a financial transaction tax, he wrote, \"Speculators may do no harm as bubbles on a steady stream of enterprise. But the situation is serious when enterprise becomes the bubble on a whirlpool of speculation.\" Rescuing enterprise from becoming \"the bubble on a whirlpool of speculation\" was also an intended purpose of the 1972 Tobin tax and is a common theme in several other types of financial transaction taxes. For the specific type of volatility in specific areas, see each specific type of financial transaction taxes below. An exception to the purpose of \"curbing of volatility\" is likely the \"bank transaction tax\".\n\n\nThe role of large numbers of individual speculators willing to take both short and long positions without prejudice, does play some role in preventing price bubbles and asset inflation. However, excess speculation is often deemed not only a source of volatility but a distraction of talent and dangerous shift of focus for a developed economy. By contrast, hedging is necessary for the stability of enterprises. Tax schemes in general seek to tax speculation - seen as akin to gambling - while trying not to interfere with hedging (a form of insurance). A brief summary of the differences is that: \n\nIt can be difficult to draw a clear distinction between hedging activities and speculation \"if the actual exposure cannot be clearly ascertained, then differentiating between a hedging transaction and a speculative trade can become very complicated; if the impact of the underlying exposure is opaque, then the risk-reducing impact of the hedge becomes obscured (if it ever existed)...once you move beyond the straightforward elimination of open positions, into more nuanced transactions involving complex hedging strategies or tenuous relationships between hedges and exposures, the distinction between a hedge and a bet becomes increasingly vague\" - . In general the advocates of financial transaction tax point to Basel III and other treaties and regulations that have increasingly required disclosure to make it easier to ascertain the degree of hedging or speculation in a given transaction or set of transactions.\n\nSheer duration of a holding is the most cogent clue: Day traders all engage in speculation by definition. .\n\nAnother common theme is the proposed intention to create a system of more fair and equitable tax collection. The Automated Payment Transaction tax (APT tax) taxes the broadest possible tax base, namely all transactions including all real and financial asset transactions. Instead of introducing progressivity through the tax rate structure, the flat rate APT tax introduces progressiveness through the tax base since the highest income and wealth groups undertake a disproportionate share of financial transactions. In the context of the financial crisis of 2007–2008, many economists, governments, and organizations around the world re-examined, or were asked to re-examine, the concept of a financial transaction tax, or its various forms. In response to a request from the G20 nations, the International Monetary Fund (IMF) delivered a report in 2010 titled \"A Fair and Substantial Contribution by the Financial Sector\" which made reference to a financial transaction tax as one of several options.\n\nAccording to several leading figures, the \"fairness\" aspect of a financial transaction tax has eclipsed, and/or replaced, \"prevention of volatility\" as the most important purpose for the tax. Fraser Reilly-King of Halifax Initiative is one such economist. He proposes that an FTT would not have addressed the root causes of the United States housing bubble which, in part, triggered the financial crisis of 2007–2008. Nevertheless, he sees an FTT as important for bringing a more equitable balance to the taxation of all parts of the economy.\n\nAccording to some economists, a financial transaction tax is less susceptible to tax avoidance and tax evasion than other types of taxes proposed for the financial sector. The Automated Payment Transaction tax (APT tax) employs 21st century technology for automatically assessing and collecting taxes when transactions are settled through the electronic technology of the banking payments system. Joseph Stiglitz, former Senior Vice President and Chief Economist of the World Bank affirmed the \"technical feasibility\" of the tax. Although Tobin said his tax idea was unfeasible in practice, Stiglitz noted that modern technology meant that was no longer the case and said that the tax is \"much more feasible today\" than a few decades ago, when Tobin disagreed.\nFraser Reilly-King of Halifax Initiative also points out that the key issue and advantage of an FTT is its relatively superior functional ability to prevent tax evasion in the financial sector. Economist Rodney Schmidt, principal researcher of The North-South Institute, also concurred that a financial transaction tax is more technically feasible than the \"bank tax\" proposed by the IMF in 2010.\n\nTransaction taxes can be raised on the sale of specific financial assets, such as stock, bonds or futures; they can be applied to currency exchange transactions; or they can be general taxes levied against a mix of different transactions.\n\nJohn Maynard Keynes was among the first proponents of a securities transaction tax. In 1936 he proposed that a small tax should be levied on dealings on Wall Street, in the United States, where he argued that excessive speculation by uninformed financial traders increased volatility. For Keynes, the key issue was the proportion of 'speculators' in the market, and his concern that, if left unchecked, these types of players would become too dominant. Keynes writes: \"The introduction of a substantial Government transfer tax on all transactions might prove the most serviceable reform available, with a view to mitigating the predominance of speculation over enterprise in the United States. (1936:159–60)\"\n\nA currency transaction tax is a tax placed on a specific type of currency transaction for a specific purpose. This term has been most commonly associated with the financial sector, as opposed to consumption taxes paid by consumers. The most frequently discussed versions of a currency transaction tax are the Tobin tax, Edgar L. Feige's Automated Payment Transaction tax and Spahn tax. The Automated Payment Transaction tax requires that all transactions be taxed regardless of the means of payment. As such, it proposes a unique tax on currency transactions collected at the time currency leaves or enters the banking system. Since each transaction mediated by currency can not be directly taxed, the APT tax proposes a brokerage fee on currency deposits and withdrawals that is some multiple of the flat transaction tax rate applied to all payments made via electronic payments mechanisms.\n\nIn 1972 the economist James Tobin proposed a tax on all spot conversions of one currency into another. The so-called Tobin tax is intended to put a penalty on short-term financial round-trip excursions into another currency. Tobin suggested his currency transaction tax in 1972 in his Janeway Lectures at Princeton, shortly after the Bretton Woods system effectively ended. In 2001, James Tobin looked back at the 1994 Mexican peso crisis, the 1997 Asian financial crisis, and the 1998 Russian financial crisis, and said: \"[My proposed] tax [idea] on foreign exchange transactions... dissuades speculators as many investors invest their money in foreign exchange on a very short-term basis. If this money is suddenly withdrawn, countries have to drastically increase interest rates for their currency to still be attractive. But high interest is often disastrous for a national economy, as the nineties' crises in Mexico, South East Asia and Russia have proven...\"\n\n\"It is intended to put a penalty on short-term financial round-trip excursions into another currency\"\n\nPaul Bernd Spahn opposed the original form of a Tobin Tax in a Working Paper \"International Financial Flows and Transactions Taxes: Survey and Options\", concluding \"...the original Tobin tax is not viable. First, it is virtually impossible to distinguish between normal liquidity trading and speculative noise trading. If the tax is generally applied at high rates, it will severely impair financial operations and create international liquidity problems, especially if derivatives are taxed as well.\" However, on 16 June 1995 Spahn suggested that \"Most of the difficulties of the Tobin tax could be resolved, possibly with a two-tier rate structure consisting of a low-rate financial transactions tax and an exchange surcharge at prohibitive rates.\" This new form of tax, the Spahn tax, was later approved by the Belgian Federal Parliament in 2004.\n\n\"It has a two-tier rate structure consisting of a low rate financial transactions tax and an exchange surcharge at prohibitive rates.\"\n\nOn 19 September 2001, retired speculator George Soros put forward a proposal, issuing special drawing rights (SDR) that the rich countries would pledge for the purpose of providing international assistance and the alleviation of poverty and other approved objectives. According to Soros this could make a substantial amount of money available almost immediately. In 1997, IMF member governments agreed to a one-time special allocation of SDRs, totaling approximately $27.5 billion. This is slightly less than 0.1% of the global GDP. Members having 71% of the total vote needed for implementation have already ratified the decision. All it needs is the approval of the United States Congress. If the scheme is successfully tested, it could be followed by an annual issue of SDRs and the amounts could be scaled up \"so that they could have a meaningful impact on many of our most pressing social issues\".\n\nBetween 1982 and 2002 Australia charged a bank account debits tax on customer withdrawals from bank accounts with a cheque facility. Some Latin American countries also experimented with taxes levied on bank transactions. Argentina introduced a bank transaction tax in 1984 before it was abolished in 1992. Brazil implemented its temporary \"CPMF\" in 1993, which lasted until 2007. The broad based tax levied on all debit (and/or credit) entries on bank accounts proved to be evasion-proof, more efficient and less costly than orthodox tax models.\n\n\"It often applies to deposits and withdrawals from bank accounts, often including checking accounts.\"\n\nIn 1989, Edgar L. Feige proposed a synthesis and extension of the ideas of Keynes and Tobin by proposing a flat rate tax on all transactions. The total volume of all transactions undertaken in an economy represents the broadest possible tax base and therefore requires the lowest flat tax rate to raise any requisite amount of revenue. Since financial transactions in stocks, bonds, international currency transactions and derivatives comprise most of the automated payment transaction (APT) tax base, it is in essence the broadest of financial transaction taxes. Initially proposed as a revenue neutral replacement for the entire Federal tax system of the United States, it could alternatively be considered as a global tax whose revenues could be used by national governments to reduce existing income, corporate and VAT tax rates as well as reducing existing sovereign debt burdens. If adopted by all of the developed nations, it would have the advantage of eliminating all incentives for substitution between financial assets and between financial centers since all transactions would universally be taxed at the identical flat tax rate.\n\nThe foundations of the APT tax proposal—a small, uniform tax on all economic transactions—involve simplification, base broadening, reductions in marginal tax rates, the elimination of tax and information returns and the automatic collection of tax revenues at the payment source.\n\nIn 2011 there were 40 countries that had FTT in operation, raising $38 billion (€29bn).\n\nThe Belgium securities tax applies to certain transactions concluded or executed in Belgium through a professional intermediary, to the extent that they relate to public funds, irrespective of their (Belgian or foreign) origin. The \"tax on stock exchange transactions\" is not due upon subscription of new securities (primary market transactions). Both buyers and sellers are subject to the tax. The tax rate varies in accordance with the type of transactions. A 0.09% tax (subject to a maximum of €1.300 per transaction) is charged for distributing shares of investment companies, certificates of contractual investment funds, bonds of the Belgian public debt or the public debt of foreign states, nominative or bearer bonds, certificates of bonds, etc. A 1.32% tax (subject to a maximum of €4.000 per transaction) is charged for accumulating shares of investment companies and 0.27% (subject to a maximum of €1.600 per transaction) for any other securities (such as shares). Transactions made for its own account by non-resident taxpayers and by some financial institutions, such as banks, insurance companies, organizations for financing pensions (OFPs) or collective investment are exempted from the tax.\n\nIn 1998 Colombia introduced a financial transaction tax of 0.2%, covering all financial transactions including banknotes, promissory notes, processing of payments by way of telegraphic transfer, EFTPOS, internet banking or other means, bank drafts and bank cheques, money on term deposit, overdrafts, installment loans, documentary and standby letters of credit, guarantees, performance bonds, securities underwriting commitments and other forms of off balance sheet exposures, safekeeping of documents and other items in safe deposit boxes, currency exchange, sale, distribution or brokerage, with or without advice, unit trusts and similar financial products. Currently the rate is 0.4%\n\nFinland imposes a tax of 1.6% on the transfer of certain Finnish securities, mainly equities such as bonds, debt securities and derivatives. The tax is charged if the transferee and/or transferor is a Finnish resident or a Finnish branch of certain financial institutions. However, there are several exceptions. E.g. no transfer tax is payable if the equities in question are subject to trading on a qualifying market. Prime Minister Jyrki Katainen (National Coalition Party) decided that Finland will not join a group of eleven other European Union states that have signed up to be at the forefront of preparing a financial transaction tax in November 2012. Other government parties the Green League, the Social Democratic Party of Finland and the Left Alliance had supporters of the tax. Supporters of the tax are Austria, Belgium, France, Germany, Greece, Italy, Portugal, Slovakia, Slovenia and Spain and likely Estonia. For example, British banks opposed the tax. Supporters said: \"We are delighted that the European FTT is moving from rhetoric to reality and will ensure banks pay for the damage they have caused; This shows it is possible to put the needs of the public over the profits of a privileged few. It's unforgivable in this age of austerity that the UK government is turning down billions in additional revenue to protect the City's elite.\"\n\nOn 1 August 2012, France introduced a financial transaction tax in French tax regulation pursuant to Article 5 of the French Amended Finance Bill of 14 March 2012. Two other taxes applicable to financial transactions were also introduced, including a tax on high-frequency trading, (Article 235 ter ZD bis of the FTC); and a tax on naked sovereign credit default swaps (Article 235 ter ZD ter of the FTC). The FTT levies a 0.2% tax on stock purchases of French publicly traded companies with a market value over €1 billion. The scheme does not include debt securities, except convertible and exchangeable bonds, which are included but benefit from a dedicated exemption to the FTT. According to French president Francois Hollande the tax will generate €170 million in additional revenue for 2012 and another €500 million in 2013. France is the first European country to impose a transaction tax on share purchases. From 2 January 2017 settlement date the rate increased to 0.3%.\n\nListed shares acquired as of 1 January 2013 will no longer be subject to the sales tax; rather, any capital gains received will be added to the taxpayer's total income.\n\nSince 1 October 2004, India levies financial transaction taxes of up to 0.135% payable on the value of taxable securities transaction made through a recognized national stock exchange. The securities transaction tax (STT) is not applicable on off-market transactions. The tax rate is set at 0.125% on a delivery-based buy and sell, 0.025% on non-delivery-based transactions, and 0.017% on Futures and Options transactions. The tax has been criticized by the Indian financial sector and is currently under review.\n\nSince 1 March 2013, Italy levies financial transaction tax on qualified equity transactions of up to 0.2% (0.22% in 2013) of the value of the trade. Financial transaction tax on derivatives of qualified equity transactions went into effect on 1 September 2013. The regulation is to apply the tax on the net balance of purchase and sale transactions executed same day on the same financial instrument by the same person/entity.\n\nIt is applicable to:\n\nUntil 1999, Japan imposed a transaction tax on a variety of financial instruments, including debt instruments and equity instruments, but at differential rates. The tax rates were higher on equities than on debentures and bonds. In the late 1980s, the Japanese government was generating significant revenues of about $12 billion per year. The tax was eventually withdrawn as part of \"big bang\" liberalization of the financial sector in 1999.\n\nIn 2003 the Peruvian government introduced a 0.1% general financial transaction tax on all foreign currency denominated incoming wire transfers regardless of their country of origin, with the aim of raising finance for the education sector. The tax is to be assessed automatically but collected manually.\n\nPoland charges a 1% Civil Law Activities Tax (CLAT) on the sale or exchange of property rights, which includes securities and derivatives. The tax applies to transactions, which are performed in Poland or which grant property rights that are to be exercised in Poland. It also applies to transactions executed outside Poland if the buyer is established in Poland. All transactions on a stock market, Polish treasury bonds and Polish treasury bills, bills issued by the National Bank and some other specified securities are exempted from the tax.\n\nSingapore charges a 0.2% stamp duty on all instruments that give effect to transactions in stocks and shares. However, this duty only applies to actual physical documents, and is not levied on computerized transactions performed through securities accounts. Stamp duty is not levied on derivative instruments.\n\nIn January 1984, Sweden introduced a 0.5% tax on the purchase or sale of an equity security. Hence a round trip (purchase and sale) transaction resulted in a 1% tax. In July 1986, the rate was doubled, and in January 1989, a considerably lower tax of 0.002% on fixed-income securities was introduced for a security with a maturity of 90 days or less. On a bond with a maturity of five years or more, the tax was 0.003%. Analyst Marion G. Wrobel prepared a paper for the Canadian Government in June 1996, examining the international experience with financial transaction taxes, and paying particular attention to the Swedish experience.\n\nThe revenues from taxes were disappointing; for example, revenues from the tax on fixed-income securities were initially expected to amount to 1,500 million Swedish kronor per year. They did not amount to more than 80 million Swedish kronor in any year and the average was closer to 50 million. In addition, as taxable trading volumes fell, so did revenues from capital gains taxes, entirely offsetting revenues from the equity transactions tax that had grown to 4,000 million Swedish kronor by 1988.\n\nOn the day that the tax was announced, share prices fell by 2.2%. But there was leakage of information prior to the announcement, which might explain the 5.35% price decline in the 30 days prior to the announcement. When the tax was doubled, prices again fell by another 1%. These declines were in line with the capitalized value of future tax payments resulting from expected trades. It was further felt that the taxes on fixed-income securities only served to increase the cost of government borrowing, providing another argument against the tax.\n\nEven though the tax on fixed-income securities was much lower than that on equities, the impact on market trading was much more dramatic. During the first week of the tax, the volume of bond trading fell by 85%, even though the tax rate on five-year bonds was only 0.003%. The volume of futures trading fell by 98% and the options trading market disappeared. On 15 April 1990, the tax on fixed-income securities was abolished. In January 1991 the rates on the remaining taxes were cut in half and by the end of the year they were abolished completely. Once the taxes were eliminated, trading volumes returned and grew substantially in the 1990s.\n\nThe Swedish FTT is widely considered a failure by design since traders could easily avoid the tax by using foreign broker services.\n\nIn Switzerland a transfer tax (Umsatzabgabe) is levied on the transfer of domestic or foreign securities such as bonds and shares, where one of the parties or intermediaries is a Swiss security broker. Other securities such as options futures, etc. do not qualify as taxable securities. Swiss brokers include banks and bank-linked financial institutions. The duty is levied at a rate of 0.15% for domestic securities and 0.3% for foreign securities. However, there are numerous exemptions to the Swiss transfer tax. These are among others: Eurobonds, other bonds denominated in a foreign currency and the trading stock of professional security brokers. The revenue of the Swiss transfer tax was CHF 1.9 billion in 2007 or 0.37% of GDP.\n\nIn Taiwan the securities transaction tax (STT) is imposed upon gross sales price of securities transferred and at a rate of 0.3% for share certificates issued by companies and 0.1% for corporate bonds or any securities offered to the public which have been duly approved by the government. However, trading of corporate bonds and financial bonds issued by Taiwanese issuers or companies are temporarily exempt from STT beginning 1 January 2010. The Taiwanese government argued this \"would enliven the bond market and enhance the international competitiveness of Taiwan's enterprises.\"\n\nSince 1998, Taiwan also levies a stock index futures transaction tax imposed on both parties. The current transaction tax is levied per transaction at a rate of not less than 0.01% and not more than 0.06%, based on the value of the futures contract. Revenue from the securities transaction tax and the futures transaction tax was about €2.4 billion in 2009. The major part of this revenue came from the taxation of bonds and stocks (96.5%). The taxation of stock index future shares was 3.5%. In total, this corresponds to 0.8% in terms of GDP.\n\nA stamp duty was introduced in the United Kingdom as an ad valorem tax on share purchases in 1808. Stamp duties are collected on documents used to effect the sale and transfer of certificated stock and other securities of UK based companies. It can be avoided using CFDs.\n\nTo address the development of trades in uncertificated stock, the UK Finance Act 1986 introduced the Stamp Duty Reserve Tax (SDRT) at a rate of 0.5% on share purchases, raising around €3.8bn per year, of which 40% is paid by foreign residents. The tax is charged whether the transaction takes place in the UK or overseas, and whether either party is resident of the UK or not. Securities issued by companies overseas are not taxed. This means that—just like the standard stamp duty—the tax is paid by foreign and UK-based investors who invest in UK incorporated companies. In other words, the tax applies to all companies which are headquartered in the UK, albeit there is a relief for intermediaries (such as market makers and large banks that are members of a qualifying exchange) as a condition of their obligation to provide liquidity.\n\nBoth stamp duty and SDRT remain in place today, albeit with continued relief for intermediaries, so that over 70% of transactions are exempt from tax. SDRT accounts for the majority of revenue collected on share transactions effected through the UK's Exchanges. On average almost 90% of revenues stem from the SDRT. Only a minor part comes from Stamp Duty. Revenue is pro-cyclical with economic activity. In terms of GDP and total tax revenue the highest values were reached during the dot.com boom years around the end of the 20th century, notably in 2000–01. In 2007–08, SDRT generated €5.37 billion in revenue (compared to 0.72 billion of the standard stamp duty). This accounts for 0.82% over total UK tax revenue or 0.30% of GDP. In 2008–09 the figure dropped to €3.67 billion (0.22% of GDP), due to reduced share prices and trading volumes as a result of the financial crisis.\n\nThe US imposed a financial transaction tax from 1914 to 1966 that was originally 0.2% and was doubled during the Great Depression. Currently, the US imposes a $0.0042 round-trip transaction tax on security futures transactions and $21.80 per million dollars for securities transactions. The tax, known as Section 31 fee, is used to support the operation costs of the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC).\n\nIn 2000 a \"pro–Tobin tax\" NGO proposed that a tax could be used to fund international development: \"In the face of increasing income disparity and social inequity, the Tobin Tax represents a rare opportunity to capture the enormous wealth of an untaxed sector and redirect it towards the public good. Conservative estimates show the tax could yield from $150–300 billion annually.\" According to Dr. Stephen Spratt, \"the revenues raised could be used for ... international development objectives ... such as meeting the Millennium Development Goals.\"\n\nAt the UN World Conference against Racism 2001, when the issue of compensation for colonialism and slavery arose in the agenda, President Fidel Castro of Cuba advocated the Tobin Tax to address that issue. According to Cliff Kincaid, Castro advocated it \"specifically in order to generate U.S. financial reparations to the rest of the world\", however a closer reading of Castro's speech shows that he never did mention \"the rest of the world\" as being recipients of revenue. Castro cited holocaust reparations as a previously established precedent for the concept of reparations. Castro also suggested that the United Nations be the administrator of this tax, stating the following:May the tax suggested by Nobel Prize Laureate James Tobin be imposed in a reasonable and effective way on the current speculative operations accounting for trillions of US dollars every 24 hours, then the United Nations, which cannot go on depending on meager, inadequate, and belated donations and charities, will have one trillion US dollars annually to save and develop the world. Given the seriousness and urgency of the existing problems, which have become a real hazard for the very survival of our species on the planet, that is what would actually be needed before it is too late.\n\nMember countries have not given the UN a mandate to seek a global financial tax.\n\nOn 15 February 2010 a coalition of 50 charities and civil society organisations launched a campaign for a Robin Hood tax on global financial transactions. The proposal would affect a wide range of asset classes including the purchase and sale of stocks, bonds, commodities, unit trusts, mutual funds, and derivatives such as futures and options.\n\nA G20 financial transaction tax (G20 FTT) was first proposed in 2008. The next year the G20 FTT received the support of the US Speaker of the House Nancy Pelosi. The proposal, which was thought to raise new funding for poor countries, however, failed to win the backing of the G20 at 2011 Cannes summit. Nevertheless, French President Nicolas Sarkozy said he planned to still pursue the idea. According to Bill Gates, co-founder of Microsoft and a supporter of a G20 FTT, even a small tax of 10 basis points on equities and 2 basis points on bonds could generate about $48 billion from G20 member states or $9 billion if only adopted by larger European countries.\n\nDifferent US financial transaction tax (US FTT) bills have been proposed in Congress since 2009. The main differences between the proposals has been the size of the tax, which financial transactions are taxed and how the new tax revenue is spent. The bills have proposed a .025%–.5% tax on stocks, .025%–.1% tax on bonds and .005%–.02% on derivatives with the funds going to health, public services, debt reduction, infrastructure and job creation. The House of Representatives has introduced since 2009 ten different US FTT related bills and the Senate has introduced four. The bills in the Senate have been variously sponsored by Tom Harkin (D-Iowa) or Bernie Sanders (I-Vermont). The bills in the House have been variously sponsored by Peter DeFazio (D-Oregon), John Conyers (D-Michigan) or a number of other Representatives.\n\nThe US FTT bills proposed by Rep. Peter DeFazio (D-Oregon) and Sen. Harkin (D-Iowa) have received a number of cosponsors in the Senate and House. The Let Wall Street Pay for the Restoration of Main Street Bill is an early version of their cosponsored US FTT bill which includes a tax on US financial market securities transactions. The bill suggests to tax stock transactions at a rate of 0.25%. The tax on futures contracts to buy or sell a specified commodity of standardized quality at a certain date in the future, at a market determined price would be 0.02%. Swaps between two firms and credit default swaps would be taxed 0.02%. The tax would only target speculators, since the tax would be refunded to average investors, pension funds and health savings accounts. Projected annual revenue is $150 billion per year, half of which would go towards deficit reduction and half of which would go towards job promotion activities. The day the bill was introduced, it had the support of 25 of DeFazio's House colleagues.\n\nThe EU financial transaction tax (EU FTT) is a proposal made by the European Commission in September 2011 to introduce a financial transaction tax within the 27 member states of the European Union by 2014. The tax would only impact financial transactions between financial institutions charging 0.1% against the exchange of shares and bonds and 0.01% across derivative contracts. According to the European Commission it could raise €57 billion every year, of which around €10bn (£8.4bn) would go to Great Britain, which hosts Europe's biggest financial center. It is unclear whether a financial transaction tax is compatible with European law.\n\nIf implemented the tax must be paid in the European country where the financial operator is established. This \"R plus I\" (residence plus issuance) solution means the EU-FTT would cover all transactions that involve a single European firm, no matter if these transactions are carried out in the EU or elsewhere in the world. The scheme makes it impossible for say French or German banks to avoid the tax by moving their transactions offshore, unless they give up all their European customers.\n\nAccording to John Dizard of the Financial Times, the unilateral extension of extraterritorial power can only cause problems:- From a US perspective, this unilateral extension of extraterritorial power by the commission goes beyond anything attempted since the US and Great Britain concluded the Treaty of Paris ending the Revolutionary War in 1783. Most institutions that try to do something like that have their own navy, and usually a larger one than the sovereign territory where they are attempting to impose the tax.\n\nBeing faced with stiff resistance from some non-eurozone EU countries, particularly United Kingdom and Sweden, a group of eleven states began pursuing the idea of utilizing enhanced co-operation to implement the tax in states which wish to participate. Opinion polls indicate that two-thirds of British people are in favour of some forms of FTT (see section: Public opinion).\n\nThe proposal supported by the eleven EU member states, was approved in the European Parliament in December 2012, and by the Council of the European Union in January 2013. The formal agreement on the details of the EU FTT still need to be decided upon and approved by the European Parliament.\n\nProponents of the tax assert that it will reduce price volatility. In a 1984 paper, Lawrence Summers and Victoria Summers argued, \"Such a tax would have the beneficial effects of curbing instability introduced by speculation, reducing the diversion of resources into the financial sector of the economy, and lengthening the horizons of corporate managers.\" It is further believed that FTTs \"should reduce volatility by reducing the number of noise traders\". However most empirical studies find that the relationship between FTT and short-term price volatility is ambiguous and that \"higher transaction costs are associated with more, rather than less, volatility\".\n\nA 2003 IMF Staff Paper by Karl Habermeier and Andrei Kirilenko found that FTTs are \"positively related to increased volatility and lower volume\". A study of the Shanghai and Shenzhen stock exchanges says the FTT created significant increases in volatility because it \"would influence not only noise traders, but also those informed traders who play the role of decreasing volatility in the stock market.\" A French study of 6,774 daily realized volatility measurements for 4.7 million trades in a four-year period of index stocks trading in the Paris Bourse from 1995 to 1999 reached the same conclusion \"that higher transaction costs increase stock return volatility\". The French study concluded that these volatility measures \"are likely to underestimate the destabilizing role of security transactions since they – unlike large ticks – also reduce the stabilizing liquidity supply\".\n\nA 1997 study of the UK Stamp Duty, which exempts market makers and large banks that are members of a qualifying exchange, found no significant effect on the volatility of UK equity prices.\n\nIn 2011 the IMF published a study paper, which argues that a securities transaction tax (STT) \"reduces trading volume, it may decrease liquidity or, equivalently, may increase the price impact of trades, which will tend to heighten price volatility\". A study by the think tank Oxera found that the imposition of the UK's Stamp Duty would \"likely have a negative effect on liquidity in secondary markets\". Regarding proposals to abolish the UK's Stamp Duty, Oxera concluded that the abolition would \"be likely to result in a non-negligible increase in liquidity, further reducing the cost of capital of UK listed companies\". A study of the FTT in Chinese stock markets found liquidity reductions due to decreased transactions.\n\nAn IMF Working Paper found a FTT impacts price discovery. The natural effect of the FTT's reduction of trading volume is to reduce liquidity, which \"can in turn slow price discovery, the process by which financial markets incorporate the effect of new information into asset prices\". The FTT would cause information to be incorporated more slowly into trades, creating \"a greater autocorrelation of returns\". This pattern could impede the ability of the market to prevent asset bubbles. The deterrence of transactions could \"slow the upswing of the asset cycle\", but it could also \"slow a correction of prices toward their fundamental values\". \n\nHabermeier and Kirilenko conclude that \"The presence of even very small transaction costs makes continuous rebalancing infinitely expensive. Therefore, valuable information can be held back from being incorporated into prices. As a result, prices can deviate from their full information values.\" A Chinese study agrees, saying: \"When it happens that an asset's price is currently misleading and is inconsistent with its intrinsic value, it would take longer to correct for the discrepancy because of the lack of enough transactions. In these cases, the capital market becomes less efficient.\"\n\nRevenues vary according to tax rate, transactions covered, and tax effects on transactions. The Swedish experience with transaction taxes in 1984–91 demonstrates that the net effect on tax revenues can be difficult to estimate and can even be negative due to reduced trading volumes. Revenues from the transaction tax on fixed-income securities were initially expected to amount to 1,500 million Swedish kronor per year but actually amounted to no more than 80 million Swedish kronor in any year. Reduced trading volumes also caused a reduction in capital gains tax revenue which entirely offset the transaction tax revenues.\n\nAn examination of the scale and nature of the various payments and derivatives transactions and the likely elasticity of response led Honohan and Yoder (2010) to conclude that attempts to raise a significant percentage of gross domestic product in revenue from a broad-based financial transactions tax are likely to fail both by raising much less revenue than expected and by generating far-reaching changes in economic behavior. They point out that, although the side effects would include a sizable restructuring of financial sector activity, this would not occur in ways corrective of the particular forms of financial overtrading that were most conspicuous in contributing to the ongoing financial crisis. Accordingly, such taxes likely deliver both less revenue and less efficiency benefits than have sometimes been claimed by some. On the other hand, they observe that such taxes may be less damaging than feared by others.\n\nOn the other hand, the case of UK stamp duty reserve tax shows that provided exemptions are given to market makers and banks, that FTT can generate modest revenues, at the expense of pensioners and savers. Despite the low tax rate of 0.5% on the purchase of shares, the UK managed to generate between €3.7 and €7.4 billion in revenues from stamp duties per year throughout the last decade. Also the cases of Japan, Taiwan and Switzerland suggest that countries may generate sizable amounts of income by introducing FTT on a national scale. If implemented on an international scale, revenues may be even considerably higher, since it would make it more difficult for traders to avoid the tax by moving to other locations.\n\n\nAccording to a European Commission working paper, empirical studies show that the UK stamp duty influences the share prices negatively. More frequently traded shares are stronger affected than low-turnover shares. Therefore, the tax revenue capitalizes at least to some extent in lower current share prices. For firms which rely on equity as marginal source of finance this may increase capital costs since the issue price of new shares would be lower than without the tax.\n\nKenneth Rogoff, Professor of Economics and Public Policy at Harvard University, and formerly Chief Economist at the IMF, argues that \"Higher transactions taxes increase the cost of capital, ultimately lowering investment. With a lower capital stock, output would trend downward, reducing government revenues and substantially offsetting the direct gain from the tax. In the long run, wages would fall, and ordinary workers would end up bearing a significant share of the cost. More broadly, FTTs violate the general public-finance principle that it is inefficient to tax intermediate factors of production, particularly ones that are highly mobile and fluid in their response.\"\n\nAn IMF Working Paper finds that the FTT \"disproportionately burdens\" the financial sector and will also impact pension funds, public corporations, international commerce firms, and the public sector, with \"multiple layers of tax\" creating a \"cascading effect\". \"[E]ven an apparently low-rate [FTT] might result in a high tax burden on some activities.\" These costs could also be passed on to clients, including not only wealthy individuals and corporations, but charities and pension and mutual funds.\n\nOther studies have suggested that the financial transaction tax is regressive in application—particularly the Stamp Duty in the UK, which includes certain exemptions only available to institutional investors. One UK study, by the Institute for Development Studies, suggests, \"In the long run, a significant proportion of the tax could end up being passed on to consumers.\" Another study of the UK Stamp Duty found that institutional investors avoid the tax due to intermediary relief, while short-term investors who are willing to take on additional risk can avoid the tax by trading noncovered derivatives. The study concluded, therefore, \"The tax is thus likely to fall most heavily on long-term, risk-averse investors.\"\n\nAlthough James Tobin had said his own Tobin tax idea was unfeasible in practice, a study on its feasibility commissioned by the German government 2002 concluded that the tax was feasible even at a limited scale within the European time zone without significant tax evasion. Joseph Stiglitz, former Senior Vice President and Chief Economist of the World Bank, said, on 5 October 2009, that modern technology meant that was no longer the case. Stiglitz said, the tax is \"much more feasible today\" than a few decades ago, when Tobin recanted. However, on 7 November 2009, at the G20 finance ministers summit in Scotland, the head of the International Monetary Fund, Dominique Strauss-Khan, said, \"transactions are very difficult to measure and so it's very easy to avoid a transaction tax.\" Nevertheless, in early December 2009, economist Stephany Griffith-Jones agreed that the \"greater centralisation and automisation of the exchanges' and banks' clearing and settlements systems ... makes avoidance of payment more difficult and less desirable.\"\n\nIn January 2010, feasibility of the tax was supported and clarified by researchers Rodney Schmidt, Stephan Schulmeister and Bruno Jetin who noted \"it is technically easy to collect a financial tax from exchanges ... transactions taxes can be collected by the central counterparty at the point of the trade, or automatically in the clearing or settlement process.\" (All large-value financial transactions go through three steps. First dealers agree to a trade; then the dealers' banks match the two sides of the trade through an electronic central clearing system; and finally, the two individual financial instruments are transferred simultaneously to a central settlement system. Thus a tax can be collected at the few places where all trades are ultimately cleared or settled.)\n\nWhen presented with the problem of speculators shifting operations to offshore tax havens, a representative of a \"pro–Tobin tax\" NGO argued as follows:\nThere has been debate as to whether one single nation could unilaterally implement a financial transaction tax. In the year 2000, \"eighty per cent of foreign-exchange trading [took] place in just seven cities. Agreement [to implement the tax] by [just three cities,] London, New York and Tokyo alone, would capture 58 per cent of speculative trading.\" However, on 27 June 2010 at the 2010 G-20 Toronto summit, the G20 leaders declared that a \"global tax\" was no longer \"on the table\", but that individual countries will be able to decide whether to implement a levy against financial institutions to recoup billions of dollars in taxpayer-funded bailouts.\n\n\nOver 1,000 economists (including Nobel laureate Paul Krugman, Jeffrey Sachs and Nobel laureate Joseph Stiglitz), more than 1,000 parliamentarians from over 30 countries, the world's major labor leaders, the Association for the Taxation of Financial Transactions and for Citizens' Action, Occupy Wall Street protesters, Oxfam, War on Want and other major development groups, the World Wildlife Fund, Greenpeace and other major environmental organizations support a FTT. Other notable supporters include the Archbishop of Canterbury, Bill Gates and Michael Moore. David Harding, founder and CEO of one of London's biggest hedge funds has given qualified support for a European tax on financial transactions, breaking ranks with many of his peers fiercely opposed to such a measure. Speculator George Soros, put forward a different proposal, calling rich countries to donate their special drawing rights for the purpose of providing international assistance, without necessarily dismissing the Tobin tax idea. It has been widely reported that the Pope backs such a tax. However, the reality is that a commission of the Vatican of which the Pope is not a member merely said that such a tax would be worth reflecting on.\n\nAnother group of EU FTT supporters it is integrated by European federalists. In their opinion FTT would constitute, among other things, a fair political initiative in the current financial crisis and it would represent an EU added value.\n\nThe European Commission has proposed a regional FTT to be implemented within the European Union (or the Eurozone) by 2014.\n\n\nMost hedge funds managers fiercely oppose FTT. So does the economist and former member of Bank of England Charles Goodhart. The Financial Times, the Asia-Pacific Economic Cooperation Business Advisory Council, the Confederation of British Industry, and the Adam Smith Institute have also spoken out against a global financial transaction tax.\n\nIn 2001, the IMF conducted considerable research that opposes a transaction tax. On 11 December 2009, the Financial Times reported \"Since the Nov 7 [2009] summit of the G20 Finance Ministers, the head of the International Monetary Fund, Mr Strauss-Kahn, seems to have softened his doubts, telling the CBI employers' conference: 'We have been asked by the G20 to look into financial sector taxes. ... This is an interesting issue. ... We will look at it from various angles and consider all proposals.'\" When the IMF presented its interim report for the G20 on 16 April 2010, it laid out three options: a bank tax, a Financial Activities Tax (FAT), and a third option (which was not promoted but not ruled out), a financial transaction tax. On 16 April 2011, the IMF stated, it does not endorse a financial transaction tax, believing it \"does not appear well suited to the specific purposes set out in the mandate from the G-20 leaders\". However, it concedes that \"The FTT should not be dismissed on grounds of administrative practicality\".\n\nChallenging the IMF's belittling of the financial transaction tax, Stephan Schulmeister of the Austrian Institute of Economic Research found that, \"the assertion of the IMF paper, that a financial transaction tax 'is not focused on the core sources of financial instability', does not seem to have a solid foundation in the empirical evidence.\" Additionally, the IMF's watchdog group, the Independent Evaluation Office (IEO), released a report in 2011 which questioned the quality and level of bias in the IMF's research between 1999 and 2008. The report indicated that \"there is a widely held perception that IMF research is message driven. About half of the authorities held this view, and more than half of the staff indicated that they felt pressure to align their conclusions with IMF policies and positions.\"\n\nA 2011 survey published by YouGov suggests that more than four out of five people in the UK, France, Germany, Spain and Italy think the financial sector has a responsibility to help repair the damage caused by the economic crisis. A 2011 Eurobarometer poll of more than 27,000 people found that Europeans are strongly in favour of a Financial Transactions Tax, by a margin of 61% to 26%. It found that Europeans \"strongly support the various measures that the European Union could adopt to reform the global financial markets... about the introduction of a tax on financial transactions, this proposal is nevertheless supported by more than six out of ten respondents (61%). A quarter of Europeans are against it, possibly because of the fear that they themselves might be subject to this tax.\"\n"}
{"id": "26173989", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26173989", "title": "Firewall (computing)", "text": "Firewall (computing)\n\nIn computing, a firewall is a network security system that monitors and controls incoming and outgoing network traffic based on predetermined security rules. A firewall typically establishes a barrier between a trusted internal network and untrusted external network, such as the Internet.\n\nFirewalls are often categorized as either network firewalls or host-based firewalls. Network firewalls filter traffic between two or more networks and run on network hardware. Host-based firewalls run on host computers and control network traffic in and out of those machines.\n\nThe term \"firewall\" originally referred to a wall intended to confine a fire within a building. Later uses refer to similar structures, such as the metal sheet separating the engine compartment of a vehicle or aircraft from the passenger compartment. The term was applied in the late 1980s to network technology that emerged when the Internet was fairly new in terms of its global use and connectivity. The predecessors to firewalls for network security were the routers used in the late 1980s.\n\nThe first reported type of network firewall is called a packet filter. Packet filters act by inspecting packets transferred between computers. When a packet does not match the packet filter's set of filtering rules, the packet filter either drops (silently discards) the packet, or rejects the packet (discards it and generate an Internet Control Message Protocol notification for the sender) else it is allowed to pass. Packets may be filtered by source and destination network addresses, protocol, source and destination port numbers. The bulk of Internet communication in 20th and early 21st century used either Transmission Control Protocol (TCP) or User Datagram Protocol (UDP) in conjunction with well-known ports, enabling firewalls of that era to distinguish between, and thus control, specific types of traffic (such as web browsing, remote printing, email transmission, file transfer), unless the machines on each side of the packet filter used the same non-standard ports.\n\nThe first paper published on firewall technology was in 1988, when engineers from Digital Equipment Corporation (DEC) developed filter systems known as packet filter firewalls. At AT&T Bell Labs, Bill Cheswick and Steve Bellovin continued their research in packet filtering and developed a working model for their own company based on their original first generation architecture.\n\nFrom 1989–1990, three colleagues from AT&T Bell Laboratories, Dave Presotto, Janardan Sharma, and Kshitij Nigam, developed the second generation of firewalls, calling them circuit-level gateways.\n\nSecond-generation firewalls perform the work of their first-generation predecessors but operate up to layer 4 (transport layer) of the OSI model. This is achieved by retaining packets until enough information is available to make a judgment about its state. \n\nThis type of firewall is potentially vulnerable to denial-of-service attacks that bombard the firewall with fake connections in an attempt to overwhelm the firewall by filling its connection state memory.\n\nMarcus Ranum, Wei Xu, and Peter Churchyard developed an application firewall known as Firewall Toolkit (FWTK). In June 1994, Wei Xu extended the FWTK with the kernel enhancement of IP filter and socket transparent. This was known as the first transparent application firewall, released as a commercial product of Gauntlet firewall at Trusted Information Systems. Gauntlet firewall was rated one of the top firewalls during 1995–1998.\n\nThe key benefit of application layer filtering is that it can \"understand\" certain applications and protocols (such as File Transfer Protocol (FTP), Domain Name System (DNS), or Hypertext Transfer Protocol (HTTP)). This is useful as it is able to detect if an unwanted application or service is attempting to bypass the firewall using a protocol on an allowed port, or detect if a protocol is being abused in any harmful way.\n\nAs of 2012, the so-called next-generation firewall (NGFW) is nothing more than the \"wider\" or \"deeper\" inspection at the application layer. For example, the existing deep packet inspection functionality of modern firewalls can be extended to include:\n\nFirewalls are generally categorized as network-based or host-based. Network-based firewalls are positioned on the gateway computers of LANs, WANs and intranets. They are either software appliances running on general-purpose hardware, or hardware-based firewall computer appliances. Firewall appliances may also offer other functionality to the internal network they protect, such as acting as a DHCP or VPN server for that network. Host-based firewalls are positioned on the network node itself and control network traffic in and out of those machines. The host-based firewall may be a daemon or service as a part of the operating system or an agent application such as endpoint security or protection. Each has advantages and disadvantages. However, each has a role in layered security.\n\nFirewalls also vary in type depending on where communication originates, where it is intercepted, and the state of communication being traced.\n\nNetwork layer firewalls, also called packet filters, operate at a relatively low level of the TCP/IP protocol stack, not allowing packets to pass through the firewall unless they match the established rule set. The firewall administrator may define the rules; or default rules may apply. The term \"packet filter\" originated in the context of BSD operating systems.\n\nNetwork layer firewalls generally fall into two sub-categories, stateful and stateless. \n\nCommonly used packet filters on various versions of Unix are \"ipfw\" (FreeBSD, Mac OS X (< 10.7)), \"NPF\" (NetBSD), \"PF\" (Mac OS X (> 10.4), OpenBSD, and some other BSDs), \"iptables\"/\"ipchains\" (Linux) and \"IPFilter\".\n\nApplication-layer firewalls work on the application level of the TCP/IP stack (i.e., all browser traffic, or all telnet or FTP traffic), and may intercept all packets traveling to or from an application.\n\nApplication firewalls function by determining whether a process should accept any given connection. Application firewalls accomplish their function by hooking into socket calls to filter the connections between the application layer and the lower layers of the OSI model. Application firewalls that hook into socket calls are also referred to as socket filters. Application firewalls work much like a packet filter but application filters apply filtering rules (allow/block) on a per process basis instead of filtering connections on a per port basis. Generally, prompts are used to define rules for processes that have not yet received a connection. It is rare to find application firewalls not combined or used in conjunction with a packet filter.\n\nAlso, application firewalls further filter connections by examining the process ID of data packets against a rule set for the local process involved in the data transmission. The extent of the filtering that occurs is defined by the provided rule set. Given the variety of software that exists, application firewalls only have more complex rule sets for the standard services, such as sharing services. These per-process rule sets have limited efficacy in filtering every possible association that may occur with other processes. Also, these per-process rule sets cannot defend against modification of the process via exploitation, such as memory corruption exploits. Because of these limitations, application firewalls are beginning to be supplanted by a new generation of application firewalls that rely on mandatory access control (MAC), also referred to as sandboxing, to protect vulnerable services.\n\nA proxy server (running either on dedicated hardware or as software on a general-purpose machine) may act as a firewall by responding to input packets (connection requests, for example) in the manner of an application, while blocking other packets. A proxy server is a gateway from one network to another for a specific network application, in the sense that it functions as a proxy on behalf of the network user.\n\nProxies make tampering with an internal system from the external network more difficult, so that misuse of one internal system would not necessarily cause a security breach exploitable from outside the firewall (as long as the application proxy remains intact and properly configured). Conversely, intruders may hijack a publicly reachable system and use it as a proxy for their own purposes; the proxy then masquerades as that system to other internal machines. While use of internal address spaces enhances security, crackers may still employ methods such as IP spoofing to attempt to pass packets to a target network.\n\nFirewalls often have network address translation (NAT) functionality, and the hosts protected behind a firewall commonly have addresses in the \"private address range\", as defined in RFC 1918. Firewalls often have such functionality to hide the true address of computer which is connected to the network. Originally, the NAT function was developed to address the limited number of IPv4 routable addresses that could be used or assigned to companies or individuals as well as reduce both the amount and therefore cost of obtaining enough public addresses for every computer in an organization. Although NAT on its own is not considered a security feature, hiding the addresses of protected devices has become an often used defense against network reconnaissance.\n\n"}
{"id": "3311742", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3311742", "title": "Fundamental Rights Agency", "text": "Fundamental Rights Agency\n\nThe European Union Agency for Fundamental Rights (usually known in English as the Fundamental Rights Agency; FRA) is a Vienna-based agency of the European Union inaugurated on 1 March 2007. It was established by Council Regulation (EC) No 168/2007 of 15 February 2007.\n\nThe FRA is an EU body tasked with \"collecting and analysing data on fundamental rights with reference to, in principle, all rights listed in the Charter\"; however, it is intended to focus particularly on \"the thematic areas within the scope of EU law\".\n\nThose nine thematic areas are defined by Council Decision No 252/2013/EU of 11 March 2013, establishing a Multiannual Framework for 2013-2017 for the Agency. They are: access to justice; victims of crime; information society; Roma integration; judicial co-operation; rights of the child; discrimination; immigration and integration of migrants; and racism and xenophobia.\n\nThe FRA's primary methods of operation are surveys, reports, provision of expert assistance to EU bodies, member states, and EU candidate countries and potential candidate countries, and raising awareness about fundamental rights. The FRA is not mandated to intervene in individual cases but rather to investigate broad issues and trends.\n\nThe FRA was established in 2007 as the successor to the European Monitoring Centre on Racism and Xenophobia (EUMC), which was also based in Vienna. The EUMC's mandate was narrower than that of the FRA, as it was restricted to issues of racism and xenophobia.\n\nThe EUMC grew from the Commission on Racism and Xenophobia (CRX), established in 1994, and also known as the Kahn Commission. The CRX was transformed into the EUMC in June 1998; officially established by Council Regulation (EC) No 1035/97 of 2 June 1997.\n\nSince its inception, the FRA has carried out surveys and published reports which are available online. A full list of publications is given on Publications & resources > Publications. This section discusses reports that have seen significant attention from outside observers.\n\nIn March 2014, FRA published a major survey on violence against women, based on face-to-face interviews with over 42,000 women from across the 28 Member States of the EU. The survey asked about their experiences of physical, sexual and psychological violence including incidents of intimate partner violence ('domestic violence'). Questions also asked about incidents of stalking, sexual harassment and online harassment as well as their experience of violence in childhood.\n\nAccording to the responses of the report some of the key findings indicated that:\n\nIn 2009, FRA released a survey on the experiences of discrimination, racist crime, and policing of minority group and immigration groups in the EU. The survey was based on the responses of 23,000 individuals from selected ethnic minority and immigrant groups, and additionally, 5,000 people from the majority population living in the same areas as minorities in 10 Member States.\nKey findings of the survey include that:\nA second round of the survey (EU-MIDIS II) is currently underway, and the results will be published in 2016. This will collect comparable data, and assess the impact of national anti-discrimination and equality legislation and policies in the EU.\n\nIn 2013, FRA conducted an online survey to identify how lesbian, gay, bisexual and transgender (LGBT) people living in the European Union experience the fulfilment of their fundamental rights. This followed a 2009 report on homophobia and discrimination on grounds of sexual orientation or gender identity which identified the need for comparative data on this issue.\nThe results reflect the experiences of more than 93,000 individuals who completed the online survey across Europe. The aim was to support the development of more effective laws and policies to fight discrimination, violence and harassment, improving equal treatment across society.\n\nFrom the findings, it was noted that:\n\nThe online survey methodology was chosen to ensure the anonymity of ‘hard-to-reach’ or ‘closeted’ LGBT populations, to encourage reporting of sensitive or negative experiences, such as criminal victimisation, and eliminate bias, which could have been introduced by telephone or face-to-face interview approaches.\nMultiple responses were discouraged through the length (approximately 30 minutes) and complexity of the survey, while the input process in the different countries was closely monitored for falsifications. The results are not intended to be representative of all LGBT people in the EU, but provide the largest collection of empirical evidence on the experiences of LGBT people in Europe to date.\nData about the perceptions of discrimination on grounds of sexual orientation or gender identity of the general public was not included in the survey, as it is already collected by Eurobarometer. The analysis of the results in the EU LGBT survey – Main results report compares some Eurobarometer data with the EU LGBT survey results.\n\nThe Agency has a multi-annual Roma programme to allow it \"to make regular reports on progress made and provide evidence based advice to the EU institutions and Member States based on data systematically collected across the EU\". Data from the 2011 Roma survey is available via an online data explorer tool.\n\nEUMC published reports are available from the website here of the FRA, the EUMC successor agency. A selection is given below.\n\nIn 2005, the EUMC published a working definition of antisemitism, whose stated purpose was to \"provide a guide for identifying incidents, collecting data and supporting the implementation and enforcement of legislation dealing with antisemitism\". In November 2013 the definition was removed from the organisation's website in 'a clear-out of non-official documents'. A spokesperson stated that the document had never been viewed as a valid definition and that \"We are not aware of any official definition\".\n\nIn May 2014, a report labeled 'Manifestations of antisemitism in the EU 2002 – 2003' was published.\nIt detailed a rise in attacks targeting Jewish businesses, synagogues, cemeteries and individuals. The countries with the most significant number of attacks were Belgium, France, Germany, the Netherlands and the UK. A second report, on perceptions of antisemitism, was also published.\n\nThe largest monitoring project ever to be commissioned regarding Islamophobia was undertaken following 9/11 by the European Monitoring Centre on Racism and Xenophobia (EUMC).\n\nFrom a total of 75 reports, 15 from each member state, a synthesis report, entitled \"Summary report on Islamophobia in the EU after 11 September 2001\", was published in May 2002.\nThe report highlighted occasions in which citizens abused and sometimes violently attacked Muslims. Discrimination included verbal abuse, indiscriminately accusing Muslims of responsibility for the attacks, removing women's hijab, spitting, using the name \"Usama\" as a pejorative epithet, and assaults. The report concluded that \"a greater receptivity towards anti-Muslim and other xenophobic ideas and sentiments has, and may well continue, to become more tolerated\".\n\nThe need for a new human rights institution was questioned given that human rights policy was a principal concern of the Council of Europe (CoE), of which all EU member states were also members. In 2007 the British Conservative MEP Syed Kamall said: \"The Fundamental Rights Agency will take £20m (30m euros) of taxpayers' money and use it to advance a partisan agenda with little accountability to anyone\". In 2010 the German newspaper \"Die Welt\" reported that the centre-right French politician Pierre Lellouche, then EU minister in the Sarkozy government, questioned \"the added value\" of the FRA when the Council of Europe already took care of human rights.\n\nA Resolution adopted in September 2009, in which the EP condemned a \"Law on the Protection of Minors\", which was then under discussion in Lithuania, as \"homophobic\" and requested the FRA to issue a legal opinion on whether the draft law was compatible with the EU Charter of Fundamental Rights. The Lithuanian Parliament, however, responded by adopting a Resolution that condemned the EP's Resolution as an \"illegal act\" (pointing to the fact that the FRA explicitly has no mandate to examine the legislation adopted by Member States) and requesting the Lithuanian Government to take legal action against the EP before the European Court of Justice.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "42844137", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42844137", "title": "Gun Owners of South Africa", "text": "Gun Owners of South Africa\n\nGun Owners South Africa (abbreviated to GOSA) is a firearms rights and advocacy group in the Republic of South Africa. It was founded on 26 January 2004 by Abios Khoele, Charl van Wyk, Pieter van Wyk, Juan de greeff, Martin Hedington, Dr. Richard Wesson, Peter Moss, and Thomas Eastes. While in excess of ten years old, the organisation only started to gain traction around 2015, with the first significant attempts at membership growth occurring late 2016.\n\nGOSA is the most diverse firearms group in South Africa, on levels ranging from race, gender, and religion, to political affiliation and income levels. GOSA’s membership is on public display on its Facebook page.\n\nOne of the founding members of GOSA, Charl van Wyk, was a congregant at the St. James Church in Cape Town when the St. James Church Massacre happened. Azanian People’s Liberation Army (APLA) militants attacked the church with automatic rifles and a grenade. Van Wyk was armed with a five-shot snub nosed revolver at the time, and returned fire, prompting the attackers to flee. The death toll stood at eleven, and an injured count of fifty-eight when the chaos ended.\n\nLarry Pratt, head of Gun Owners of America, spoke at a GOSA conference at the time of GOSA's founding, and publicly criticized the South African police chief who opposed the group.\n\nGun Owners South Africa was founded in 2004 in response to disillusionment with the other established firearm rights group, the South African Gun Owners Association (SAGA). SAGA has been in existence since 1985, and is still active to present day. In the years 2004 until 2015, GOSA was largely silent and inconspicuous on the South African political and firearms rights fronts. In 2011, the South African homicide rate started a gradual climbing trend, and in 2013, revelations of the bad state of affairs and corruption at the Central Firearms Registry had emerged.\n\nBy 2015, the GOSA leadership had realised that disillusionment with SAGA was not going to change any time soon, and started to slowly put in place the necessary mechanisms of moving towards a professionally organised organisation, including a paid membership structure and benefits such as legal financial insurance against firearm discharge under legal circumstances. Other changes included a more inclusive and simplified brand name (changing from the old English and Afrikaans abbreviations \"Wapeneienaars Suid Africa / Gun Owners South Africa\" (WESA/GOSA), to just the English abbreviation, and a logo update. Additionally, GOSA also contributed a significant amount of funding to Dr. David Klatzow's work on the validity of ballistic fingerprinting, which delivered a scathing rebuke of the 'science' in his article \"Defective Science: An Inquiry into the Valaidity of Ballistic Fingerprinting as a Reliable Tool and into the Feasibility of Establishing an Effective national Ballistic Imaging Database\". Towards the end of 2015 and start of 2016, it became clear that paid membership structures in their current form were inefficient and putting the finances at a deficit. They were unbundled and simplified, with the insurance offering being moved to Gunsure (a now discontinued firearm insurance firm), and the membership offerings instead reflecting discount legal services for firearm administrative matters pertaining to firearm licensing. With the collapse of Gunsure, GOSA started to look back at bundling a reformed insurance membership option for firearm owners in January 2018.\n\nWith the start to 2017, the reformed membership structures had started turning significant profits for the organisation, and this afforded the ability to hire a small complement of full time staff, allow the funding of more travelling expenses for official business (such as flights between Pretoria and Cape Town, where the capital and parliamentary precinct are based respectively), a new website, and put a presence with a permanent stand at the Huntex firearms and hunting expo in Gauteng and the Eastern Cape. The investment in a Huntex presence dealt a negative drag to GOSA, and the leadership quickly culled the initiative before the 2018 Huntex expos went ahead. By November 2017, GOSA had stabilized the financial flows again.\n\nIn the year from January 2016 until December 2017, Facebook membership had grown from just shy of 21 000 members, to 35 000. Paid membership growth was slower, rising from zero in late 2015, to over three thousand at the end of 2017. In a country of between 2.5 million to 3.0 million firearm owners, these numbers are very low, and GOSA faces an uphill battle in mobilising as many as possible.\n\nIn February 2018, Jonathan Wright lodged a complaint on behalf of GOSA with the Press Council of South Africa against Jacaranda 94.2 FM after an article on the latter's website claimed that research shows people are four times more likely to have their own firearms used against them; and that having a firearm in one's home \"has been proven to increase the risk of a firearm homicide or firearm suicide in the home\" unless it is kept in a safe. GOSA argued that the first claim was unsubstantiated and the second was biased, and asked for Jacaranda FM to publicly retract the statements. The article was pulled once controversy surrounding the claims came about, but no reason for taking the piece down was given. The Press Ombud, Johan Retief, ruled that Jacaranda had \"to publish a retraction, correction or explanation as to \"why\" the story was pulled\", which is required by section 1.10 of the Press Code. \n\nGOSA is not associated with any political parties or candidates, and opts instead to engage and lobby directly with political entities willing to engage.\n\nOn the other hand, within this Sphere GOSA is diametrically opposed to the disarmament of law abiding citizens and organizations, such as Gun Free South Africa, which promote that agenda.\n\nGOSA currently runs the GOSA Girls on Fire campaign, which was started in 2015 to coincide with the 16 Days of Activism, which is aimed at teaching and increasing female participation in firearm related activities. The campaign is run by female organisers, and regularly helps new female firearm owners with carry techniques, training, and promoting firearm safety and etiquette.\n\nPlans are in the formation to start hosting official GOSA events, such as the touted first time ever Gauteng Firearms Festival, focusing on showcasing firearm and self-defence exhibits and hosting shooting competitions and activities, at the Johannesburg Metropolitan Police Department shooting range.\n\nGOSA is headed by a chairperson, who chairs an Executive Committee, which was created in 2015.\n\nThe Executive Committee is currently composed of:\n\nGOSA's organisational structure also includes numerous volunteers who operate and advocate for GOSA with no remuneration.\n\nGOSA is currently largely unknown in public life, although this is changing as it becomes more vocal within Parliament and political circles. It has not drawn any criticism, controversy or been involved with any scandals.\n"}
{"id": "56997129", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56997129", "title": "Health Promotion International", "text": "Health Promotion International\n\nHealth Promotion International is a quarterly peer-reviewed public health journal covering health promotion. It was established in 1986 at the John Snow Pub on Broadwick Street in London, England. The journal's founder was Ilona Kickbusch, who is now the chair emerita of its editorial board. Originally named Health Promotion, the journal obtained its current name in 1990. It is published by Oxford University Press and the editor-in-chief is Evelyne de Leeuw (University of New South Wales). According to the \"Journal Citation Reports\", the journal has a 2016 impact factor of 1.722, ranking it 36th out of 77 journals in the category \"Health Policy & Services\" and 71st out of 157 in the category \"Public, Environmental & Occupational Health\".\n"}
{"id": "2864205", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2864205", "title": "La raza cósmica", "text": "La raza cósmica\n\nPublished in 1925, ' (The Cosmic Race\"\"') is an essay written by Mexican philosopher, secretary of education, and 1929 presidential candidate José Vasconcelos to express the ideology of a future \"fifth race\" in the Americas; an agglomeration of all the races in the world with no respect to color or number to erect a new civilization: Universópolis.\n\nAs he explains in his literary work, armies of people would then go forth around the world professing their knowledge. Vasconcelos continues to say that the people of the Iberian regions of the Americas (that is to say, the parts of the continent colonised by Portugal and Spain) have the territorial, racial, and spiritual factors necessary to initiate the \"universal era of humanity\".\n\nClaiming that the Darwinist ideologies are \"scientific\" theories only created to validate, explain, and justify ethnic superiority and to repress others, Vasconcelos attempts to refute these theories and goes on to recognize his words as being an ideological effort to improve the cultural morale of a \"depressed race\" by offering his optimistic theory of the future development of a cosmic race.\n\nThe title , in English \"The Cosmic Race\", embodies the notion that traditional, exclusive concepts of so-called \"race\" and nationality can be transcended in the name of humanity's common destiny. It originally referred to a movement by Mexican intellectuals during the 1920s who pointed out that so-called \"Latin\" Americans have the blood of all the world's so-called \"races\": European, Asian-descended native Americans, and Africans, thereby transcending the peoples of the \"Old World\".\n\nVasconcelos also alluded to the term when he coined the National Autonomous University of Mexico's motto: \"\" ('Through my race the spirit will speak').\n\nThe term has come, often in its shortened version \"la Raza\", to refer to the mixed-race people of Latin America, i.e., primarily mestizos, mulattos, and zambos, or all three combined. Vasconcelos also used the expression ('the bronze race'), in this same sense.\n\n\nJosé Vasconcelos, ; Mexico City: Espasa Calpe SA; 1948; pp. 47–51\n\n"}
{"id": "32430835", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32430835", "title": "List of Hawaiian royal residences", "text": "List of Hawaiian royal residences\n\nThis is a list of residences once occupied by Hawaiian royalty during the Kingdom of Hawaii. Few can be referred to as palaces; most were private residences used by the alii nui.\n\n"}
{"id": "15425584", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15425584", "title": "Lyon – Mont Verdun Air Base", "text": "Lyon – Mont Verdun Air Base\n\nLyon – Mont Verdun Air Base (\"Base Aérienne 942\") is located to the northwest of Lyon. It is a center for air defense operations transferred to the site from the now-deactivated headquarters of the French Air Force at Taverny Air Base – BA921 near Paris, with an underground alternate strategic command center hardened against chemical and nuclear attack. \n\nThe location includes the South Sector Operations Center of the \"Commandement de la Défense Aérienne et des Opérations Aériennes\" (CDAOA or Air Defense and Operations Command), which is connected to NATO's Air Command and Control System (ACCS).\n\n"}
{"id": "3409102", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3409102", "title": "Make love, not war", "text": "Make love, not war\n\nMake love, not war is an anti-war slogan commonly associated with the American counterculture of the 1960s. It was used primarily by those who were opposed to the Vietnam War, but has been invoked in other anti-war contexts since, around the world. The \"make love\" part of the slogan often referred to the practice of free love that was growing among the American youth who denounced marriage as a tool for those who supported war and favored the traditional capitalist culture.\n\nThe phrase's origins are unknown. Gershon Legman claimed to be the inventor of the phrase, so did American singer Rod McKuen. Some credit Louis Abolafia, an artist, social activist, folk figure, and sometime United States Presidential candidate under the Nudist Party on the Hippie 'Love Ticket'. Radical activists Penelope and Franklin Rosemont and Tor Faegre helped to popularize the phrase by printing thousands of \"Make Love, Not War\" buttons at the Solidarity Bookshop in Chicago, Illinois and distributing them at the Mother's Day Peace March in 1965. They were the first to print the slogan. In April 1965, at a Vietnam demonstration in Eugene, Oregon, Diane Newell Meyer, then a senior at the University of Oregon, pinned a handwritten note on her sweater reading \"Let's make love, not war\", thus marking the beginning of the popularity of this phrase. A picture of Meyer wearing the slogan was printed in the \"Eugene Register-Guard\", after which a related article turned up in \"The New York Times\" on May 9, 1965.\n\nWhen the slogan was used during a protest in California in 1967, then Governor Ronald Reagan joked: \"Those guys [the protesters] look like they can't make either of both\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1721326", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1721326", "title": "Military asset", "text": "Military asset\n\nIn military usage, a military asset is a weapon or means of production of weapons or other defensive or offensive devices or capabilities.\n\nWhether a military asset is considered a capital asset, or part of a public infrastructure, is a matter of definition. War planners may deem individuals and other items in war zones and rebel controlled area as military assets and not civilian infrastructure. This can include train lines, water plants, agricultural factories, and medicine supplies.\n\nTactical imagery is used to find concealed high-value assets like artillery placements, ammo dumps and other logistical sites. Terrain and the proximity to supported units would dictate probable locations of logistical routes, ammo dumps, supply depots and assembly areas. Being that the military by definition embraces uniformity, patterns of emplacement and concealment are targeting by the opposing forces assets (such as artillery and air strikes). The size, shape, and surroundings of items frequently gave away the location of military assets and identifiable targets.\n\nMarilyn Waring argued in the 1980s that under the UN System of National Accounts there was no clear differentiator of investment in public goods versus weaponry, and that this distorted the entire monetary system. \"See monetary reform for more on this issue.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "827571", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=827571", "title": "Millennium Development Goals", "text": "Millennium Development Goals\n\nThe Millennium Development Goals (MDGs) were the eight international development goals for the year 2015 that had been established following the Millennium Summit of the United Nations in 2000, following the adoption of the United Nations Millennium Declaration. All 191 United Nations member states at that time, and at least 22 international organizations, committed to help achieve the following Millennium Development Goals by 2015:\n\n\nEach goal had specific targets, and dates for achieving those targets. To accelerate progress, the G8 finance ministers agreed in June 2005 to provide enough funds to the World Bank, the International Monetary Fund (IMF) and the African Development Bank (AfDB) to cancel $40 to $55 billion in debt owed by members of the heavily indebted poor countries (HIPC) to allow them to redirect resources to programs for improving health and education and for alleviating poverty.\n\nInterventions evaluated include (1) improvements required to meet the millennium development goals (MDG) for water supply (by halving by 2015 the proportion of those without access to safe drinking water), (2) meet the water MDG plus halving by 2015 the proportion of those without access to adequate sanitation, (3)increasing access to improved water and sanitation for everyone, (4) providing disinfection at point-of-use over and above increasing access to improved water supply and sanitation (5) providing regulated piped water supply in house and sewage connection with partial sewerage for everyone (Hutton, G. Evaluation of the Cost and Benefits of Water and Sanitation Improvements at the Global Level, 2004 WHO-Geneva)\n\nCritics of the MDGs complained of a lack of analysis and justification behind the chosen objectives, and the difficulty or lack of measurements for some goals and uneven progress, among others. Although developed countries' aid for achieving the MDGs rose during the challenge period, more than half went for debt relief and much of the remainder going towards natural disaster relief and military aid, rather than further development.\n\nAs of 2013, progress towards the goals was uneven. Some countries achieved many goals, while others were not on track to realize any. A UN conference in September 2010 reviewed progress to date and adopted a global plan to achieve the eight goals by their target date. New commitments targeted women's and children's health, and new initiatives in the worldwide battle against poverty, hunger and disease (\n\nAmong the non-governmental organizations assisting were the United Nations Millennium Campaign, the Millennium Promise Alliance, Inc., the Global Poverty Project, the Micah Challenge, The Youth in Action EU Programme, \"Cartoons in Action\" video project and the 8 Visions of Hope global art project.\n\nThe Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) replaced the MDGs in 2016.\n\nPreparations for the 2000 Millennium Summit launched with the report of the Secretary-General entitled, \"We the people: The Role of the United Nations in the Twenty-First Century\". Additional input was prepared by the Millennium Forum, which brought together representatives of over 1,000 non-governmental and civil society organizations from more than 100 countries. The Forum met in May to conclude a two-year consultation process covering issues such as poverty eradication, environmental protection, human rights and protection of the vulnerable.\n\nMDGs derive from earlier development targets, where world leaders adopted the United Nations Millennium Declaration. The approval of the Millennium Declaration was the main outcome of the Millennium Summit.\n\nThe MDGs originated from the United Nations Millennium Declaration. The Declaration asserted that every individual has dignity; and hence, the right to freedom, equality, a basic standard of living that includes freedom from hunger and violence and encourages tolerance and solidarity. The MDGs set concrete targets and indicators for poverty reduction in order to achieve the rights set forth in the Declaration.\n\nThe Brahimi Report provided the basis of the goals in the area of peace and security.\n\nThe Millennium Summit Declaration was, however, only part of the origins of the MDGs. More ideas came from Adam Figueroa, Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development (OECD), the World Bank and the International Monetary Fund. A series of UN‑led conferences in the 1990s focused on issues such as children, nutrition, human rights and women. The OECD criticized major donors for reducing their levels of Official Development Assistance (ODA). UN Secretary-General Kofi Annan signed a report titled, \"We the Peoples: The Role of the United Nations in the 21st Century\". The OECD had formed its International Development Goals (IDGs). The two efforts were combined for the World Bank's 2001 meeting to form the MDGs.\n\nThe MDGs emphasized three areas: human capital, infrastructure and human rights (social, economic and political), with the intent of increasing living standards. Human capital objectives include nutrition, healthcare (including child mortality, HIV/AIDS, tuberculosis and malaria, and reproductive health) and education. Infrastructure objectives include access to safe drinking water, energy and modern information/communication technology; increased farm outputs using sustainable practices; transportation; and environment. Human rights objectives include empowering women, reducing violence, increasing political voice, ensuring equal access to public services and increasing security of property rights. The goals were intended to increase an individual’s human capabilities and \"advance the means to a productive life\". The MDGs emphasize that each nation's policies should be tailored to that country's needs; therefore most policy suggestions are general.\n\nMDGs emphasize the role of developed countries in aiding developing countries, as outlined in Goal Eight, which sets objectives and targets for developed countries to achieve a \"global partnership for development\" by supporting fair trade, debt relief, increasing aid, access to affordable essential medicines and encouraging technology transfer. Thus developing nations ostensibly became partners with developed nations in the struggle to reduce world poverty.\n\nThe MDGs were developed out of several commitments set forth in the Millennium Declaration, signed in September 2000. There are eight goals with 21 targets, and a series of measurable health indicators and economic indicators for each target.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nGeneral criticisms include a perceived lack of analytical power and justification behind the chosen objectives.\n\nThe MDGs lack strong objectives and indicators for within-country equality, despite significant disparities in many developing nations.\n\nIterations of proven local successes should be scaled up to address the larger need through human energy and existing resources using methodologies such as participatory rural appraisal, asset-based community development, or SEED-SCALE.\n\nMDG 8 uniquely focuses on donor achievements, rather than development successes. The \"Commitment to Development Index\", published annually by the Center for Global Development in Washington, D.C., is considered the best numerical indicator for MDG 8. It is a more comprehensive measure of donor progress than official development assistance, as it takes into account policies on a number of indicators that affect developing countries such as trade, migration and investment.\n\nThe MDGs were attacked for insufficient emphasis on environmental sustainability. Thus, they do not capture all elements needed to achieve the ideals set out in the Millennium Declaration.\n\nAgriculture was not specifically mentioned in the MDGs even though most of the world's poor are farmers.\n\nThe entire MDG process has been accused of lacking legitimacy as a result of failure to include, often, the voices of the very participants that the MDGs seek to assist. The International Planning Committee for Food Sovereignty, in its post 2015 thematic consultation document on MDG 69 states \"The major limitation of the MDGs by 2015 was the lack of political will to implement due to the lack of ownership of the MDGs by the most affected constituencies\".\n\nThe MDGs may under-emphasize local participation and empowerment (other than women’s empowerment). FIAN International, a human rights organization focusing on the right to adequate food, contributed to the Post 2015 process by pointing out a lack of: \"primacy of human rights; qualifying policy coherence; and of human rights based monitoring and accountability. Without such accountability, no substantial change in national and international policies can be expected.\"\n\nMDG 2 focuses on primary education and emphasizes enrollment and completion. In some countries, primary enrollment increased at the expense of achievement levels. In some cases, the emphasis on primary education has negatively affected secondary and post-secondary education.\n\nA publication from 2005 argued that goals related to maternal mortality, malaria and tuberculosis are impossible to measure and that current UN estimates lack scientific validity or are missing. Household surveys are the primary measure for the health MDGs but may be poor and duplicative measurements that consume limited resources. Furthermore, countries with the highest levels of these conditions typically have the least reliable data collection. The study also argued that without accurate measures, it is impossible to determine the amount of progress, leaving MDGs as little more than a rhetorical call to arms.\n\nMDG proponents such as McArthur and Sachs countered that setting goals is still valid despite measurement difficulties, as they provide a political and operational framework to efforts. With an increase in the quantity and quality of healthcare systems in developing countries, more data could be collected. They asserted that non-health related MDGs were often well measured, and that not all MDGs were made moot by lack of data.\n\nThe attention to well being other than income helps bring funding to achieving MDGs. Further MDGs prioritize interventions, establish obtainable objectives with useful measurements of progress despite measurement issues and increased the developed world’s involvement in worldwide poverty reduction. MDGs include gender and reproductive rights, environmental sustainability, and spread of technology. Prioritizing interventions helps developing countries with limited resources make decisions about allocating their resources. MDGs also strengthen the commitment of developed countries and encourage aid and information sharing. The global commitment to the goals likely increases the likelihood of their success. They note that MDGs are the most broadly supported poverty reduction targets in world history.\n\nAchieving the MDGs does not depend on economic growth alone. In the case of MDG 4, developing countries such as Bangladesh have shown that it is possible to reduce child mortality with only modest growth with inexpensive yet effective interventions, such as measles immunization. Still, government expenditure in many countries is not enough to meet the agreed spending targets. Research on health systems suggests that a \"one size fits all\" model will not sufficiently respond to the individual healthcare profiles of developing countries; however, the study found a common set of constraints in scaling up international health, including the lack of absorptive capacity, weak health systems, human resource limitations, and high costs. The study argued that the emphasis on coverage obscures the measures required for expanding health care. These measures include political, organizational, and functional dimensions of scaling up, and the need to nurture local organizations.\n\nFundamental issues such as gender, the divide between the humanitarian and development agendas and economic growth will determine whether or not the MDGs are achieved, according to researchers at the Overseas Development Institute (ODI).\n\nThe International Health Partnership (IHP+) aimed to accelerate MDG progress by applying international principles for effective aid and development in the health sector. In developing countries, significant funding for health came from external sources requiring governments to coordinate with international development partners. As partner numbers increased variations in funding streams and bureaucratic demands followed. By encouraging support for a single national health strategy, a single monitoring and evaluation framework, and mutual accountability, IHP+ attempted to build confidence between government, civil society, development partners and other health stakeholders.\n\nFurther developments in rethinking strategies and approaches to achieving the MDGs include research by the Overseas Development Institute into the role of equity. Researchers at the ODI argued that progress could be accelerated due to recent breakthroughs in the role equity plays in creating a virtuous circle where rising equity ensures the poor participate in their country's development and creates reductions in poverty and financial stability. Yet equity should not be understood purely as economic, but also as political. Examples abound, including Brazil's cash transfers, Uganda's eliminations of user fees and the subsequent huge increase in visits from the very poorest or else Mauritius's dual-track approach to liberalization (inclusive growth and inclusive development) aiding it on its road into the World Trade Organization. Researchers at the ODI thus propose equity be measured in league tables in order to provide a clearer insight into how MDGs can be achieved more quickly; the ODI is working with partners to put forward league tables at the 2010 MDG review meeting.\n\nThe effects of increasing drug use were noted by the \"International Journal of Drug Policy\" as a deterrent to the goal of the MDGs.\n\nIncreased focus on gender issues could accelerate MDG progress, e.g. empowering women through access to paid work could help reduce child mortality. In South Asian countries babies often suffered from low birth weight and high mortality due to limited access to healthcare and maternal malnutrition. Paid work could increase women's access to health care and better nutrition, reducing child mortality. Increasing female education and workforce participation increased these effects. Improved economic opportunities for women also decreased participation in the sex market, which decreased the spread of AIDS, MDG 6A.\nAnother way in which women can be empowered is through access to paid work. Kabeer states that this access increases women’s agency in their households, it does so in the economic and political spheres as well. A study of women in rural Mexico found that those of them engaged in industrial work were able to negotiate and obtain a greater degree of respect in their households. Additionally, another study from Tanzania found that increased access to paid work led to a long-term reduction in domestic violence. Lastly, Women’s employment and access to financial resources increased their political participation. Data from Bangladesh indicates that longer membership in microfinance organizations have many positive effects including higher levels of political participation and improved access to government programs.\n\nAlthough the resources, technology and knowledge exist to decrease poverty through improving gender equality, the political will is often missing. If donor and developing countries focused on seven \"priority areas\", great progress could be made towards the MDG. These seven priority areas include: increasing girls’ completion of secondary school, guaranteeing sexual and reproductive health rights, improving infrastructure to ease women’s and girl’s time burdens, guaranteeing women’s property rights, reducing gender inequalities in employment, increasing seats held by women in government, and combating violence against women.\n\nIt is thought that the current MDGs targets do not place enough emphasis on tracking gender inequalities in poverty reduction and employment as there are only gender goals relating to health, education, and political representation. To encourage women’s empowerment and progress towards the MDGs, increased emphasis should be placed on gender mainstreaming development policies and collecting data based on gender.\n\nProgress towards reaching the goals has been uneven across countries. Brazil achieved many of the goals, while others, such as Benin, are not on track to realize any. The major successful countries include China (whose poverty population declined from 452 million to 278 million) and India. The World Bank estimated that MDG 1A (halving the proportion of people living on less than $1 a day) was achieved in 2008 mainly due to the results from these two countries and East Asia.\n\nIn the early 1990s Nepal was one of the world's poorest countries and remains South Asia's poorest country. Doubling health spending and concentrating on its poorest areas halved maternal mortality between 1998 and 2006. Its Multidimensional Poverty Index has seen the largest decreases of any tracked country. Bangladesh has made some of the greatest improvements in infant and maternal mortality ever seen, despite modest income growth.\n\nBetween 1990 and 2010 the population living on less than $1.25 a day in developing countries halved to 21%, or 1.2 billion people, achieving MDG1A before the target date, although the biggest decline was in China, which took no notice of the goal. However, the child mortality and maternal mortality are down by less than half. Sanitation and education targets will also be missed.\n\nG‑8 Finance Ministers met in London in June 2005 in preparation for the Gleneagles Summit in July and agreed to provide enough funds to the World Bank, IMF and the African Development Bank (AfDB) to cancel the remaining HIPC multilateral debt ($40 to $55 billion). Recipients would theoretically re-channel debt payments to health and education.\n\nThe Gleaneagles plan became the Multilateral Debt Relief Initiative (MDRI). Countries became eligible once their lending agency confirmed that the countries had continued to maintain the reforms they had implemented.\n\nWhile the World Bank and AfDB limited MDRI to countries that complete the HIPC program, the IMF's eligibility criteria were slightly less restrictive so as to comply with the IMF's unique \"uniform treatment\" requirement. Instead of limiting eligibility to HIPC countries, any country with per capita income of $380 or less qualified for debt cancellation. The IMF adopted the $380 threshold because it closely approximated the HIPC threshold.\n\nOne success was to strengthen rice production in Sub-Saharan Africa. By the mid‑1990s, rice imports reached nearly $1 billion annually. Farmers had not found suitable rice varieties that produce high yields. New Rice for Africa (NERICA), a high-yielding and well adapted strain, was developed and introduced in areas including Congo Brazzaville, Côte d'Ivoire, the Democratic Republic of the Congo, Guinea, Kenya, Mali, Nigeria, Togo and Uganda. Some 18 varieties of this strain became available, enabling African farmers to produce enough rice to feed their families and have extra to sell.\n\nThe region also showed progress towards MDG 2. School fees that included Parent-Teacher Association and community contributions, textbook fees, compulsory uniforms and other charges took up nearly a quarter of a poor family’s income and led countries including Burundi, the Democratic Republic of the Congo, Ethiopia, Ghana, Kenya, Malawi, Mozambique, Tanzania, and Uganda to eliminate such fees, increasing enrollment. For instance, in Ghana, public school enrollment in the most deprived districts rose from 4.2 million to 5.4 million between 2004 and 2005. In Kenya, primary school enrollment added 1.2 million in 2003 and by 2004, the number had climbed to 7.2 million.\n\nFollowing the adoption of the Millennium Development Goals (MDGs), in 2000, Jeffrey Sachs of The Earth Institute at Columbia University was among the leading academic scholars and practitioners on the MDGs. He chaired the WHO Commission on Macroeconomics and Health (2000–01), which played a pivotal role in scaling up the financing of health care and disease control in the low-income countries to support MDGs 4, 5, and 6. He worked with UN Secretary-General Kofi Annan in 2000–2001 to design and launch The Global Fund to Fight AIDS, Tuberculosis and Malaria. He also worked with senior officials of the George W. Bush administration to develop the PEPFAR program to fight HIV/AIDS, and the PMI to fight malaria. On behalf of Annan, from 2002 to 2006 he chaired the UN Millennium Project, which was tasked with developing a concrete action plan to achieve the MDGs. The UN General Assembly adopted the key recommendations of the UN Millennium Project at a special session in September 2005. The recommendations for rural Africa are currently being implemented and documented in the Millennium Villages, and in several national scale-up efforts such as in Nigeria.\n\nThe Millennium Villages Project, which Sachs directs, operates in more than a dozen African countries and covers more than 500,000 people. The MVP has engendered considerable controversy associated as critics have questioned both the design of the project and claims made for its success. In 2012 \"The Economist\" reviewed the project and concluded \"the evidence does not yet support the claim that the millennium villages project is making a decisive impact.\" Critics have pointed to the failure to include suitable controls that would allow an accurate determination of whether the Projects methods were responsible for any observed gains in economic development. A 2012 \"Lancet\" paper claiming a 3-fold increase in the rate of decline in childhood mortality was criticized for flawed methodology, and the authors later admitted that the claim was \"unwarranted and misleading\".\n\nMalaria deaths declined by more than one-third, saving millions of lives.\n\nAlthough developed countries' financial aid rose during the Millennium Challenge, more than half went towards debt relief. Much of the remainder aid money went towards disaster relief and military aid. According to the United Nations Department of Economic and Social Affairs (2006), the 50 least developed countries received about one third of all aid that flows from developed countries.\n\nOver the past 35 years, UN members have repeatedly \"commit[ted] 0.7% of rich-countries' gross national income (GNI) to Official Development Assistance\". The commitment was first made in 1970 by the UN General Assembly.\n\nThe text of the commitment was:\nIn 2005 the European Union reaffirmed its commitment to the 0.7% aid targets, noting that \"four out of the five countries, which exceed the UN target for ODA of 0.7%, of GNI are member states of the European Union\". Further, the UN \"believe[s] that donors should commit to reaching the long-standing target of 0.7 percent of GNI by 2015\".\n\nHowever, the United States as well as other nations disputed the Monterrey Consensus that urged \"developed countries that have not done so to make concrete efforts towards the target of 0.7% of gross national product (GNP) as ODA to developing countries\".\n\nThe US consistently opposed setting specific foreign-aid targets since the UN General Assembly first endorsed the 0.7% goal in 1970.\n\nMany Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development (OECD) nations, did not donate 0.7% of their GNI. Some nations' contributions fell far short of 0.7%.\n\nThe Australian government committed to providing 0.5% of GNI in International Development Assistance by 2015-2016.\n\nA major conference was held at UN headquarters in New York on 20–22 September 2010 to review progress. The conference concluded with the adoption of a global action plan to accelerate progress towards the eight anti-poverty goals. Major new commitments on women's and children's health, poverty, hunger and disease ensued.\n\nAccording to MDG Monitor, the target under MDG 3 \"To eliminate gender disparity in primary and secondary education by 2005, and in all levels of education by 2015\" was met.\n\nHowever MDG monitor points out that while parity has been achieved across the developing world, there are regional and national differences favouring girls in some cases and boys in others. In secondary education in \"Western Asia, Oceania, and sub-Saharan Africa, girls are still at a disadvantage, while the opposite is true in Latin America and the Caribbean – boys are at a disadvantage.\" Similarly in tertiary education there are disparities \"at the expense of men in Northern Africa, Eastern Asia, and Latin America and the Caribbean\" while conversely they are \"at the expense of women in Southern Asia and sub-Saharan Africa.\"\n\nImproving living conditions in developing countries may encourage healthy workers not to move to other places that offer a better lifestyle.\n\nCuba, itself a developing country, played a significant role in providing medical personnel to other developing nations; it has trained more than 14,500 medical students from 30 different countries at its Latin American School of Medicine in Havana since 1999. Moreover, some 36,000 Cuban physicians worked in 72 countries, from Europe to Southeast Asia, including 31 African countries, and 29 countries in the Americas. Countries such as Honduras, Guatemala, and Nicaragua benefit from Cuban assistance.\n\nAlthough there have been major advancements and improvements achieving some of the MDGs even before the deadline of 2015, the progress has been uneven between the countries. In 2012 the UN Secretary-General established the \"UN System Task Team on the Post-2015 UN Development Agenda\", bringing together more than 60 UN agencies and international organizations to focus and work on sustainable development.\n\nAt the MDG Summit, UN Member States discussed the Post-2015 Development Agenda and initiated a process of consultations. Civil society organizations also engaged in the post-2015 process, along with academia and other research institutions, including think tanks.\n\nThe Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) have been proposed as targets relating to future international development once they expire at the end of 2015.\n\nOn 31 July 2012, Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon appointed 26 public and private leaders to advise him on the post-MDG agenda.\n\nIn 2014, the UN's Commission on the Status of Women agreed on a document that called for the acceleration of progress towards achieving the millennium development goals, and confirmed the need for a stand-alone goal on gender equality and women's empowerment in post-2015 goals, and for gender equality to underpin all of the post-2015 goals.\n\nThe United Nations Millennium Campaign is a UNDP campaign to increase support for the Millennium Development Goals. The Millennium Campaign targets intergovernmental, government, civil society organizations and media at global and regional levels.\n\nThe Millennium Promise Alliance, Inc. (or simply the \"Millennium Promise\") is a U.S.-based non-profit organization founded in 2005 by Jeffrey Sachs and Ray Chambers. Millennium Promise coordinates the Millennium Villages Project in partnership with Columbia's Earth Institute and UNDP; it aims to demonstrate MDG feasibility through an integrated, community-led approach. As of 2012 the Millennium Villages Project operated in 14 sites across 10 countries in sub-Saharan Africa.\n\nThe Global Poverty Project is an international education and advocacy organisation that encourages MC support in English-speaking countries.\n\nThe Micah Challenge is an international campaign that encourages Christians to support the Millennium Development Goals. Their aim is to \"encourage our leaders to halve global poverty by 2015\".\n\nThe Youth in Action EU Programme \"Cartoons in Action\" project created animated videos about MDGs, and videos about MDG targets using Arcade C64 videogames.\n\nThe World We Want 2015 is a platform and joint venture between the United Nations and Civil Society Organizations that supports citizen participation in defining a new global development framework to replace the Millennium Development Goals.\n\nThe Teach MDGs, and Accessing Development Education European projects, coordinated by Future Worlds Center aim to increase MDG awareness and public support by engaging teacher training institutes, teachers and pupils in developing local teaching resources that promote the MDGs with a focus on sub-Saharan Africa.\n\nGlobal Education Magazine is an initiative launched by the teaching team that formulated the proposal most voted in the group \"Sustainable Development for the Eradication of Poverty in Rio+20\". It is supported by UNESCO and UNHCR and aims to create a common place to disseminate transcultural, transpolitical, transnational and transhumanist knowledge.\n\nUN Goals is a global project dedicated to spreading knowledge of MDG through various internet and offline awareness campaigns.This has had tremendous progress.\n\nLibrarians and others in the information professions are in a unique position to help achieve the Millennium Development Goals. It is often the dissemination of key information, e.g., about health, that changes daily life and can affect an entire community.\n\nMillennium Development Goals are not only for the developing world. Maret (2011) specifically addresses how U.S. public libraries can help the United States meet the goals. The work of U.S. librarians has evolved in a manner that incorporates human rights values and precepts without having generally used the language that characterizes the philosophical and ethical goals of human rights and human development. Librarians are able to further the Millennium Development Goals and contribute by providing information and services to all people in varying formats and languages.\n\nAlbright and Kwooya (2007) report that cultural and financial barriers in Sub-Saharan Africa impede LIS education programs. As a result, MDG goals for poverty, healthcare, and education fall short. High rates of HIV/AIDS, and escalating child and maternal mortality are the direct result of poverty and substandard medical care. Limited instruction in information access and exchange contributes to this ongoing dilemma.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1098348", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1098348", "title": "Miller v. Johnson", "text": "Miller v. Johnson\n\nMiller v. Johnson, 515 U.S. 900 (1995), was a United States Supreme Court case concerning \"affirmative gerrymandering/racial gerrymandering\", where racial minority-majority electoral districts are created during redistricting to increase minority Congressional representation.\n\nOnly one of Georgia's ten congressional districts was primarily African American between 1980 and 1990. According to the 1990 Census, Georgia's increase in population entitled the state to an eleventh congressional seat. That prompted Georgia's General Assembly to re-draw the state's congressional districts. After the Justice Department denied several of the Assembly's proposed new districts, as the state's population was 27% African-American, but formed a majority in only one of the now 11 districts, the Assembly drew the 11th district to create a second majority-black district. However the district lacked any sort of organic structure, and was deemed a \"geographic monstrosity\" because it extended 6,784.2 square miles from Atlanta to the Atlantic Ocean. The case was brought to court by white voters in the Eleventh Congressional District of the state of Georgia.\n\nIs racial gerrymandering of the congressional redistricting process a violation of the Equal Protection Clause?\n\nWriting for the majority, Justice Kennedy wrote the opinion for the Court. Ruling against the district, the Court declared the district unconstitutional under the Equal Protection Clause of the Fourteenth Amendment, according to the interpretation in \"Shaw v. Reno\" (1993). The court noted that in some instances, \"a reapportionment plan may be so highly irregular and bizarre in shape that it rationally cannot be understood as anything other than an effort to segregate voters based on race.\" Applying the rule laid down in \"Shaw v. Reno\" requires strict scrutiny whenever race is the \"overriding, predominant force\" in the redistricting process.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "48602474", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48602474", "title": "Ministry of Agriculture (Hungary)", "text": "Ministry of Agriculture (Hungary)\n\nThe Hungarian Ministry of Agriculture (Agrárminisztérium) is a cabinet-level government department headed by the Minister of Agriculture. It was founded in 1848 as the Ministry of Agriculture, Industry and Trade \n\n"}
{"id": "857460", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=857460", "title": "Ministry of Defence (Norway)", "text": "Ministry of Defence (Norway)\n\nThe Royal Norwegian Ministry of Defence () is a Norwegian government ministry in charge of the formation and implementation of national security and defence policy, and for the overall management and control of the activities of subordinate agencies. The ministry is located at Glacisgata 1, Oslo, inside Akershus festning. The ministry is headed by the politically appointed Minister of Defence, currently Frank Bakke-Jensen. The ministry controls a large group of defence-related agencies, not to be related with Ministry of Foreign Affairs that controls all intelligence-related agencies in the country.\n\n\nOn behalf of the Secretary General, the secretariat prepares, quality-assures, coordinates and priorities all issues that are submitted to the Minister. Accordingly, the secretariat maintains overall responsibility for the Minister's activities. \nThe unit provides support both to the Minister and senior staff, both political and administrative, and to the Chief of Defence. The spokesman function is performed by separate spokesmen for the Minister of Defence and the Chief of Defence. \nThe Internal Auditor will contribute to the overall achievement of defence objectives by providing support to the Ministry's senior management in controlling and managing subordinate departments and agencies. \nThe Department of Personnel and General Services spans over a range of different professional areas, some administrative and some more related to aspects of development. Some of the department's tasks are purely internal while others, for example personnel policy and common legal services, entail responsibilities across the sector as a whole.\nThe Department of Security Policy is responsible for the handling of questions of security policy as well as for the Ministry's international activities and external relations in the field of security policy. \nThe Department of Management and Financial Governance has the overall responsibility for the planning and development of activities, the organisation and the structure of the Armed Forces within the particular long-term planning period. The department also exercises overall management and control of the activities of subordinate agencies. \nThe Department of Defence Policy and Long-Term Planning is responsible for strategic analysis, the development of long-term defence policy and overall planning for the defence sector.\n\n"}
{"id": "19714050", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19714050", "title": "Ministry of Economy and Trade (Syria)", "text": "Ministry of Economy and Trade (Syria)\n\nThe Ministry of Economy and Trade () of Syria is the ministry that is responsible of drawing the state’s economic policy in general and trade policy in particular. It was established in 2003 as a replacement to the \"Ministry of Economy and Foreign Trade\" and the \"Ministry of Supply and Internal Trade\".\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "52307026", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52307026", "title": "Muslim-Jewish Advisory Council", "text": "Muslim-Jewish Advisory Council\n\nThe Muslim-Jewish Advisory Council is an interfaith, bipartisan collaboration convened by the American Jewish Committee and the Islamic Society of North America in early fall 2016. Its 42 members are business, religious, and political leaders from all over the United States. The Council focuses its public policy advocacy on reversing the rise in hate crimes based on religion in the United States. Despite the little controversy between the two founding organizations about Israel, their overlapping concern was deemed more important. The council's action includes creating \"a coordinated strategy to address anti-Muslim bigotry and anti-Semitism\" and to \"protect and expand the rights of religious minorities\" in the United States. \n\nThe co-chairs of the council are Stanley Bergman, the CEO of Henry Schein, and Farooq Kathwari, the CEO of Ethan Allen. Our two communities share much in common and should find ways, where possible, to work together for the benefit of the entire country, said Bergman; The Council aims to provide a model for civic engagement by two communities, vital to American society, that agree to work together on issues of common concern and overlapping interest -Kathwari. The creator of the Council and its director is Robert J. Silverman, who lead Muslim-Jewish engagement at AJC. He began discussions with American Muslim friends in the summer of 2016, selected the members of the Council, and chairs its policy sub-committee. \n\nOn November 2016 the Islamic Society of North America and the American Jewish committee launched their first meeting. The council has decided to focus its advocacy brings together CEOs and council members of each group to meet and get to know each other as well as discuss the group's mission and goals as a new council.\n\nThe council's three main goals are as follows,\n\nThere are thirty-one members of the Muslim-Jewish Advisory Council, two of the being Co-Chairs of the board. Each board member is listed with their name, organization or cooperation they are most affiliated with, faith, and a summary of the accomplishments in their career.\n\nAs of 2017, the MJAC has expanded their cause all across the globe. There are 22 offices in the United States alone. In addition, there are ten offices in Berlin, Brussels, Jerusalem, New Delhi, Paris, Rome, São Paulo, Tokyo, South East Asia, and Warsaw. There are three regional institutions in Africa, Asia, and Latin America. In addition, the MJAC have over 33 formal partnerships with international Jewish communities thus far. Each MJAC office and institution consists of their own philanthropy that corresponds to their regional and socioeconomic position in their communities.\n\n"}
{"id": "3006762", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3006762", "title": "Nasserism", "text": "Nasserism\n\nNasserism ( \"at-Tayyār an-Nāṣerī\") is a socialist Arab nationalist political ideology based on the thinking of Gamal Abdel Nasser, one of the two principal leaders of the Egyptian revolution of 1952 and Egypt's second President. Spanning the domestic and international spheres, it combines elements of Arab socialism, republicanism, nationalism, anti-imperialism, developing world solidarity and international non-alignment. In the 1950s and 1960s, Nasserism was amongst the most potent political ideologies in the Arab world. This was especially true following the Suez Crisis of 1956 (known in Egypt as the Tripartite Aggression), the political outcome of which was seen as a validation of Nasserism and a tremendous defeat for Western imperial powers. During the Cold War, its influence was also felt in other parts of Africa and the developing world, particularly with regard to anti-imperialism and non-alignment.\n\nThe scale of the Arab defeat in the Six-Day War of 1967 damaged the standing of Nasser and the ideology associated with him. Though it survived Nasser's death in 1970, certain important tenets of Nasserism were revised or abandoned totally by his successor Anwar Sadat during what he termed the Corrective Revolution and later his \"Infitah\" economic policies. Under the three decade rule of Sadat's successor Hosni Mubarak, most of the remaining socialist infrastructure of Egypt was replaced by neoliberal policies strongly at odds with Nasserist principles. In the international arena, Mubarak departed almost entirely from traditional Egyptian policy, becoming a steadfast ally of both the United States government and Israel, the latter still viewed by most Egyptians with enmity and distrust, derived largely from the five wars that Egypt fought against Israel between 1948 and 1973.\n\nDuring Nasser's lifetime, Nasserist groups were encouraged and often supported financially by Egypt to the extent that many became seen as willing agents of the Egyptian government in its efforts to spread revolutionary nationalism in the Arab world. In the 1970s, as a younger generation of Arab revolutionaries came to the fore Nasserism outside Egypt metamorphosed into other Arab nationalist and pan-Arabist movements, including component groups of the Lebanese National Movement during the Lebanese Civil War. The main Nasserite movements that continued to be active until today on the Lebanese scene are mainly represented by the organization in Sidon of populist Nasserist partisans (\"al-Tanzim al-Sha'bi al-Nassiri\") that are led by Oussama Saad and in Beirut as represented mainly by the Al-Mourabitoun movement. Both groups have been mainly active since the early 1950s among Sunni Muslims and they are currently associated politically with the March 8 coalitions in Lebanese politics.\n\nNasserism continues to have significant resonance throughout the Arab world to this day and informs much of the public dialogue on politics in Egypt and the wider region. Prominent Nasserist Hamdeen Sabahi competed in the first round of the 2012 Egyptian Presidential election and only narrowly avoided securing a position in the run-off against eventual winner Mohamed Morsi.\n\n\"Nasserism\", the broad term used in literature to describe the aspects of Nasser's rule and his legacy, can be interpreted in many ways. Granted that there is a multitude of ways in which the term is read and used, P. J. Vatikiotis in his book \"Nasser and his Generation\" (1978) argues that Nasserism had the limited political connotation of a phenomenon of \"personal charismatic leadership, not to a movement or ideology\". Vatikiotis elaborates upon Nasser's use of speech as a political tool to sway his constituents despite their deprivation of any participation in their leader's policies. To this end, Nasser frequently addressed masses on both radio and television as well as in huge rallies, with a \"repeated hypnotic incantation of \"imperialism\" and \"agents of imperialism\", \"reactionaries\", \"revenge\", \"dignity and self-respect\", \"Zionism\" and \"Arabism\". Crowds were galvanized to hysteria as Nasser excited them with hopes and aspirations of strong leadership and Arab unity.\n\nIn \"Rethinking Nasserism\" (2004), Podeh and Winckler discuss another interpretation of Nasserism. According to them, \"Western social scientists in the 1950s and 1960s, perceived Nasserism as a modernization movement and Nasser as a modernizing leader…Egypt was seen as a typical Third World country undergoing a process of decolonization and, under new revolutionary leadership, aspiring to national prosperity through modernization. Thus, Nasserism was perceived as an attempt to transform Egyptian traditional society through the modernization of its economy and society\".\n\nYet another insight into Nasserism is provided in \"Political Trends in the Fertile Crescent\" (1958) by Walid Khalidi, who discusses it as not an ideological movement, rather an \"attitude of mind\" that is \"eclectic, empirical, radical, and yet conservative\". According to Walidi, Nasserism was able to attract support in the Arab world because it \"transferred, if only partially, to the Arab world itself, the center of decisions concerning the future of that world\". Khalidi asserts that this change inspired self-confidence in the Arab community, which was particularly welcome after the recent shock over the loss of Palestine.\n\nNasserism is an Arab nationalist and pan-Arabist ideology, combined with a vaguely defined socialism, often distinguished from Eastern Bloc or Western socialist thought by the label \"Arab socialism\". Though opposed ideologically to Western capitalism, Arab socialism also developed as a rejection of communism, which was seen as incompatible with Arab traditions and the religious underpinnings of Arab society. As a consequence, Nasserists from the 1950s to the 1980s sought to prevent the rise of communism in the Arab world and advocated harsh penalties for individuals and organizations identified as attempting to spread communism within the region.\n\nThough mindful of the Islamic and Christian heritage of the Arab world as with Ba'athism, Nasserism is largely a secular ideology. Just as with other manifestations of Arab nationalism, this led to direct conflict with Islamic-oriented political movements in the Arab world from the 1950s onward, particularly the Muslim Brotherhood. Nasserists espouse an end to Western interference in Arab affairs, developing world solidarity, international non-alignment, modernisation and industrialisation. Nasser himself was opposed vehemently to Western imperialism, sharing the commonly held Arab view that Zionism was an extension of European colonialism on Arab soil.\n\nIn world politics, Nasser's Egypt, along with Yugoslavia under Josip Broz Tito and India under Jawaharlal Nehru, was a major proponent of the Non-Aligned Movement, which advocated developing countries remaining outside the influence of the superpower blocs. However, notwithstanding this policy and government suppression of communist organisations within Egypt, Egypt's deteriorating relations with Western powers, particularly following the Tripartite Aggression of 1956, made Egypt heavily dependent on military and civil assistance from the Soviet Union. The same was true for other revolutionary Arab governments, which although repressive of communism within Arab borders, entered into strong longstanding relationships with communist states outside the Arab world. The Egyptian-Soviet alliance continued well into the presidency of Nasser's successor as president, Anwar Sadat, especially with regard to the Arab–Israeli conflict.\n\nNasserism remains a political force throughout the Arab world, but in a markedly different manner than in its heyday. Whereas in the 1950s and 1960s Nasserism existed as a revolutionary and dynamic movement with definite political and social goals, by the 1980s it had become a much less pronounced and distinct ideology. Today, many more Arabs are informed by Nasserism in a general sense than actually espouse its specific ideals and objectives. In terms of political organisations within Egypt itself and during the presidency of former Egyptian President Hosni Mubarak, Nasserism's scope was confined generally to writers, intellectuals and minor opposition parties. Nasserist movements were largely overshadowed by Islamic political organisations, especially the Muslim Brotherhood. This was a part of an overall trend within Egypt and the Arab world of Arab nationalism being overshadowed, and even eclipsed by political Islam. In Egypt, the Nasserist Party styles itself as the successor to Nasser and his Arab Socialist Union as does its offshoot, the Karama Party of Hamdeen Sabahi. However, as with all opposition parties in Egypt, their activities was severely limited by the Mubarak regime prior to the Egyptian revolution of 2011.\n\nWhilst Nasser governed Egypt through a strictly authoritarian one-party system, with extreme limits on any form of political dissent, present-day Nasserists stress their support for democracy, explaining Nasser's autocratic excesses as necessary to implement his revolutionary policies.\n\nDespite being a quintessentially Arab ideology, Nasserism influenced to a degree left-wing movements in other parts of the developing world, particularly Sub-Saharan Africa and Latin America. Under Nasser, the Egyptian government gave support both moral and material to Sub-Saharan liberation movements fighting European imperialism. Nelson Mandela, the former South African President and Leader of the African National Congress, remarked that this support was crucial in helping sustain the morale of such movements, including in South Africa. Similar sentiments have been expressed by Fidel Castro, the former Cuban President, with regard to the Cuban Revolution and Cuba's later adversities with the United States Government. Both men stated that Egypt's resistance under Nasser against the joint British, French and Israeli invasion of Egypt in 1956 proved to be inspirational for their own movements.\n\nHugo Chávez, late President of Venezuela and leader of the self-styled Bolivarian Revolution, cited Nasserism as a direct influence on his own political thinking by stating: \"Someone talked to me about his pessimism regarding the future of Arab nationalism. I told him that I was optimistic, because the ideas of Nasser are still alive. Nasser was one of the greatest people of Arab history. To say the least, I am a Nasserist, ever since I was a young soldier\".\n\nLeft-wing British politician George Galloway has referred to Gamal Abdel Nasser as \"one of the greatest men of the 20th century\" and has called repeatedly for Arab governments to embrace the tenets of Nasserism in the 21st century.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "37000", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37000", "title": "Palmer Raids", "text": "Palmer Raids\n\nThe Palmer Raids were a series of raids conducted during the First Red Scare by the United States Department of Justice under the administration of President Woodrow Wilson to capture and arrest suspected radical leftists, mostly Italian and Eastern European immigrants and especially anarchists and communists, and deport them from the United States. The raids particularly targeted Italian immigrants and Eastern European Jewish immigrants with suspected radical leftist ties, with particular focus on Italian anarchists and immigrant leftist labor activists. The raids and arrests occurred in November 1919 and January 1920 under the leadership of Attorney General A. Mitchell Palmer. Though more than 500 foreign citizens were deported, including a number of prominent leftist leaders, Palmer's efforts were largely frustrated by officials at the U.S. Department of Labor, which had authority for deportations and objected to Palmer's methods.\n\nThe Palmer Raids occurred in the larger context of the Red Scare, the term given to fear of and reaction against communist radicals in the U.S. in the years immediately following World War I. There were strikes that garnered national attention, race riots in more than 30 cities, and two sets of bombings in April and June 1919, including one bomb mailed to Palmer's home. The Palmer Raids preceded the Immigration Act of 1924, which also targeted Southern European and Eastern Europe immigrants on not just political grounds but also mostly ethnic and racial grounds.\n\nDuring the First World War, there was a nationwide campaign in the United States against the real and imagined divided political loyalties of immigrants and ethnic groups, who were feared to have too much loyalty for their nations of origin. Particular targets were Germans, with sympathies for their homeland, and Irish, whose countrymen were in revolt against America's ally, the United Kingdom. In 1915, President Wilson warned against hyphenated Americans who, he charged, had \"poured the poison of disloyalty into the very arteries of our national life.\" \"Such creatures of passion, disloyalty and anarchy\", Wilson continued \"must be crushed out\". The Russian Revolution of 1917 added special force to fear of labor agitators and partisans of ideologies like anarchism and communism. The general strike in Seattle in February 1919 represented a new development in labor unrest that the war had suppressed.\n\nThe fears of Wilson and other government officials were confirmed when Galleanists—Italian followers of the anarchist Luigi Galleani—carried out a series of bombings in April and June 1919. At the end of April, some 30 Galleanist letter bombs had been mailed to a host of individuals, mostly prominent government officials and businessmen, but also law enforcement officials. Only a few reached their targets, and not all exploded when opened. Some people suffered injuries, including a housekeeper in Senator Thomas W. Hardwick's residence, who had her hands blown off. On June 2, 1919, the second wave of bombings occurred, when several much larger package bombs were detonated by Galleanists in eight American cities, including one that damaged the home of Attorney General A. Mitchell Palmer in Washington, D.C. At least one person was killed in this second attack, night watchman William Boehner, and fears were raised because it occurred in the capital. Flyers declaring war on capitalists in the name of anarchist principles accompanied each bomb.\n\nIn June 1919, Attorney General Palmer told the House Appropriations Committee that all evidence promised that radicals would \"on a certain day...rise up and destroy the government at one fell swoop.\" He requested an increase in his budget to $2,000,000 from $1,500,000 to support his investigations of radicals, but Congress limited the increase to $100,000.\n\nAn initial raid in July 1919 against an anarchist group in Buffalo, New York, achieved little when a federal judge tossed out Palmer's case. He found in the case that the three arrested radicals, charged under a law dating from the Civil War, had proposed transforming the government by using their free speech rights and not by violence. That taught Palmer that he needed to exploit the more powerful immigration statutes that authorized the deportation of alien anarchists, violent or not. To do that, he needed to enlist the cooperation of officials at the Department of Labor. Only the Secretary of Labor could issue warrants for the arrest of alien violators of the Immigration Acts, and only he could sign deportation orders following a hearing by an immigration inspector.\n\nOn August 1, 1919, Palmer named 24-year-old J. Edgar Hoover to head a new division of the Justice Department's , the General Intelligence Division (GID), with responsibility for investigating the programs of radical groups and identifying their members. The Boston Police Strike in early September raised concerns about possible threats to political and social stability. On October 17, the Senate passed a unanimous resolution demanding Palmer explain what actions he had or had not taken against radical aliens and why.\n\nAt 9 pm on November 7, 1919, a date chosen because it was the second anniversary of the Bolshevik revolution, agents of the Bureau of Investigation, together with local police, executed a series of well-publicized and violent raids against the Union of Russian Workers in 12 cities. Newspaper accounts reported some were \"badly beaten\" during the arrests. Many later swore they were threatened and beaten during questioning. Government agents cast a wide net, bringing in some American citizens, passers-by who admitted being Russian, some not members of the Russian Workers. Others were teachers conducting night school classes in space shared with the targeted radical group. Arrests far exceeded the number of warrants. Of 650 arrested in New York City, the government managed to deport just 43.\n\nWhen Palmer replied to the Senate's questions of October 17, he reported that his department had amassed 60,000 names with great effort. Required by the statutes to work through the Department of Labor, they had arrested 250 dangerous radicals in the November 7 raids. He proposed a new Anti-Sedition Law to enhance his authority to prosecute anarchists.\n\nAs Attorney General Palmer struggled with exhaustion and devoted all his energies to the United Mine Workers coal strike in November and December 1919, Hoover organized the next raids. He successfully persuaded the Department of Labor to ease its insistence on promptly alerting those arrested of their right to an attorney. Instead, Labor issued instructions that its representatives could wait until after the case against the defendant was established, \"in order to protect government interests.\" Less openly, Hoover decided to interpret Labor’s agreement to act against the Communist Party to include a different organization, the Communist Labor Party. Finally, despite the fact that Secretary of Labor William B. Wilson insisted that more than membership in an organization was required for a warrant, Hoover worked with more compliant Labor officials and overwhelmed Labor staff to get the warrants he wanted. Justice Department officials, including Palmer and Hoover, later claimed ignorance of such details.\n\nThe Justice Department launched a series of raids on January 2, 1920, with follow up operations over the next few days. Smaller raids extended over the next 6 weeks. At least 3000 were arrested, and many others were held for various lengths of time. The entire enterprise replicated the November action on a larger scale, including arrests and seizures without search warrants, as well as detention in overcrowded and unsanitary holding facilities. Hoover later admitted \"clear cases of brutality.\" The raids covered more than 30 cities and towns in 23 states, but those west of the Mississippi and south of the Ohio were \"publicity gestures\" designed to make the effort appear nationwide in scope. Because the raids targeted entire organizations, agents arrested everyone found in organization meeting halls, not only arresting non-radical organization members but also visitors who did not belong to a target organization, and sometimes American citizens not eligible for arrest and deportation.\n\nThe Department of Justice at one point claimed to have taken possession of several bombs, but after a few iron balls were displayed to the press they were never mentioned again. All the raids netted a total of just four ordinary pistols.\n\nWhile most press coverages continued to be positive, with criticism only from leftist publications like \"The Nation\" and \"The New Republic\", one attorney raised the first noteworthy protest. Francis Fisher Kane, the U.S. Attorney for the Eastern District of Pennsylvania, resigned in protest. In his letter of resignation to the President and the Attorney General he wrote: \"It seems to me that the policy of raids against large numbers of individuals is generally unwise and very apt to result in injustice. People not really guilty are likely to be arrested and railroaded through their hearings...We appear to be attempting to repress a political party...By such methods, we drive underground and make dangerous what was not dangerous before.\" Palmer replied that he could not use individual arrests to treat an \"epidemic\" and asserted his own fidelity to constitutional principles. He added: \"The Government should encourage free political thinking and political action, but it certainly has the right for its own preservation to discourage and prevent the use of force and violence to accomplish that which ought to be accomplished, if at all, by parliamentary or political methods.\" \"The Washington Post\" endorsed Palmer's claim for urgency over legal process: \"There is no time to waste on hairsplitting over infringement of liberties.\"\n\nIn a few weeks, after changes in personnel at the Department of Labor, Palmer faced a new and very independent-minded Acting Secretary of Labor in Assistant Secretary of Labor Louis Freeland Post, who canceled more than 2,000 warrants as being illegal. Of the 10,000 arrested, 3,500 were held by authorities in detention; 556 resident aliens were eventually deported under the Immigration Act of 1918.\n\nAt a Cabinet meeting in April 1920, Palmer called on Secretary of Labor William B. Wilson to fire Post, but Wilson defended him. The President listened to his feuding department heads and offered no comment about Post, but he ended the meeting by telling Palmer that he should \"not let this country see red.\" Secretary of the Navy Josephus Daniels, who made notes of the conversation, thought the Attorney General had merited the President's \"admonition\", because Palmer \"was seeing red behind every bush and every demand for an increase in wages.\"\n\nPalmer's supporters in Congress responded with an attempt to impeach Louis Post or, failing that, to censure him. The drive against Post began to lose energy when Attorney General Palmer’s forecast of an attempted radical uprising on May Day 1920 failed to occur. Then, in testimony before the House Rules Committee on May 7–8, Post proved \"a convincing speaker with a caustic tongue\" and defended himself so successfully that Congressman Edward W. Pou, a Democrat presumed to be an enthusiastic supporter of Palmer, congratulated him: \"I feel that you have followed your sense of duty absolutely.\"\n\nOn May 28, 1920, the nascent American Civil Liberties Union (ACLU) published its \"Report Upon the Illegal Practices of the United States Department of Justice\", which carefully documented unlawful activities in arresting suspected radicals, illegal entrapment by \"agents provocateur\", and unlawful incommunicado detention. Such prominent lawyers and law professors as Felix Frankfurter, Roscoe Pound and Ernst Freund signed it. Harvard Professor Zechariah Chafee criticized the raids and attempts at deportations and the lack of legal process in his 1920 volume \"Freedom of Speech\". He wrote: \"That a Quaker should employ prison and exile to counteract evil-thinking is one of the saddest ironies of our time.\"\nThe Rules Committee gave Palmer a hearing in June, where he attacked Post and other critics whose \"tender solicitude for social revolution and perverted sympathy for the criminal anarchists...set at large among the people the very public enemies whom it was the desire and intention of the Congress to be rid of.\" The press saw the dispute as evidence of the Wilson administration's ineffectiveness and division as it approached its final months.\n\nIn June 1920, a decision by Massachusetts District Court Judge George Anderson ordered the discharge of 17 arrested aliens and denounced the Department of Justice's actions. He wrote that \"a mob is a mob, whether made up of Government officials acting under instructions from the Department of Justice, or of criminals and loafers and the vicious classes.\" His decision effectively prevented any renewal of the raids.\n\nPalmer, once seen as a likely presidential candidate, lost his bid to win the Democratic nomination for president later in the year. The anarchist bombing campaign continued intermittently for another twelve years.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "44347855", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44347855", "title": "Party of United Pensioners", "text": "Party of United Pensioners\n\nThe Party of United Pensioners (, \"Partija ujedinjenih penzionera\", PUP) is a centrist political party representing the interests of pensioners in Republika Srpska.\n\nThe PUP contested the 2010 elections in Republika Srpska in an alliance with the Socialist Party, winning four seats.\n\nThe 2014 elections saw the party join an alliance with the Serb Democratic Party and the Serbian Radical Party. The alliance emerged as the second largest faction in the National Assembly, winning 24 of the 83 seats.\n\n"}
{"id": "3864076", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3864076", "title": "Preta Gil", "text": "Preta Gil\n\nPreta Maria Gadelha Gil Moreira () (born August 8, 1974), known as Preta Gil (), is a Brazilian singer and actress. She is the daughter of Gilberto Gil, a famous musician and former Minister of Culture in Brazil.\n\nIn 1974, Preta Gil's father, the famous singer Gilberto Gil, went to a government office to register his daughter's name after his own mother's name. Upon arrival, the clerk informed him he was unable to register \"Preta\" as a name for his daughter. Gilberto Gil began to protest, \"Why not? There's Branca (White), Clara (Clear) and Rosa (Rose) . . . why can't Preta (Black) be a name?\". The clerk conceded, only if the child was registered along with a Catholic name. So \"Preta Gil\" was registered \"Preta Maria\".\n\n\"Preta\" lived in Rio, and at the age of one, she moved to Salvador. Her mother, Sandra, soon after had another daughter named \"Maria\". Gil always believed it was lack of creativity. She had an older brother, \"Pedro\", who was born in London, at the time of her father's famous exile from Brazil during the Military Dictatorship, along with friend and singer Caetano. \n\nSandra's mother, was also the mother of Andréa Gadelha, known as Dedé wife of Caetano. In the situation faced, she believed her two daughters married crazy men. Gilberto Gil and Veloso were both exiled, went to live in London, and Preta's grandmother was left to raise the children. Preta has great admiration for her grandmother, who stood firm in a chaotic time in the family's life.\n\nSince childhood she has had a very vivid imagination. She once had an imaginary puppy, when she was five. When her father was making a record in Los Angeles with Sergio Mendes, the family moved to California, where they lived for eight months. Preta's mother joked, calling the airplane that took them to L.A. as a slave ship, since she and the children were all black. Petra's siblings, Maria and Pedro, both had curly hair. \"Preta\" has straight hair. Caetano used to call her Filipina.\n\nShe was in Rio de Janeiro at the height of the 1980s. Bombando, Blitz, Paralamas, Barão Vermelho, Lulu Santos. The Brazilian music scene in the 1980s was something very striking. As a daughter of one of Brazil's music icons, Preta had backstage access to the craziness that made up that scene. \"It all made me crazy, loved this environment, I felt comfortable. The stage was one thing that attracted me a lot.\".\n\nShe wanted to be \"Chacrete\" (the famous TV show of Chacrinha) and every Saturday in the theater Fenix, the Botanical Garden. Preta's father, at that time, exploded in the charts, along with her uncle Veloso, and her godmother Gal Costa, who always went to the show Chacrinha. Preta would always beg her mother to ask her father, her uncle and even her godmother, who always went, to attend the tapings of the show. And one day, she was permitted to attend. She went into her uncle Caetano's dressing room, saw all the costumes, instruments and thought he was the male version of Carmen Miranda. When the taping began, she was in a corner and watched the magic happen. She loved Elke Maravilha a constant fixture in the show. That was the environment of the 1980s, effervescent, colorful, and full of life. This was when she also decided to be a singer and an actress. She would imitate her godmother, Gal Costa, as well as other reputable and talented singers and actresses like Rita Lee and Elba Ramalho, whom she loved and attended all her concerts.\n\nThe first studio album \"Preta Gil\", entitled \"Prêt-à Porter\" was released in 2003. \"Preta\" took nude pictures for the cover and the booklet of the CD. The idea was for the singer, in particular, to feel reborn with that her first job, and how we are born naked, then declined as well.\n\nWhen you finish the pictures, showed them the label. But soon it was alerted and asked if she was sure that, if you thought it would not cause any 'scandal'. Innocently, \"Preta\" said that since she had to include other singers on the disc, singers who were also naked on the covers of their CDs, and would not be a 'chest out' that would cause a controversy.\n\nFrom there, the same time, \"Preta\" did an interview for Trippe. But like all media thought that \"Preta\" was in the clearance of wanting to spur, called her to make a sensual. \"Preta\", very relaxed, loved it, because it has always been a dream of mine to do Playboy.\n\nBut \"Preta\" reveals that when she read the magazine of her interview, it was not exactly what she had said, because they had many questions to which her answers would be misunderstood and made her look bad. The interview came out in magazine with the release of her controversial CD, so it would have been another reason for the media to think that she was willing to appear.\n\nIn a TV interview just, GNT, the program Annoying \"Fernanda Young\", \"Preta Gil\" says, like fun and relaxed for the presenter, that if she were thin, with all certainty that fuss would not have happened.\n\nThe Preta Gil's second studio album, entitled \"Preta\", was released in September 2005. The CD contained two songs, \"Very Dangerous\" and \"You and Mene, You and Me\", both released in 2005.\n\nIn 2008, \"Preta\" debuted her new tour, called \"Noite Preta\", where on October 20, 2009 recorded her first live DVD/Blu-ray, scheduled for release on July 17, 2010.\n\n\"I'm thinking about launching an extra DVD with only the prohibited. In my day to day, I'm very different from the \"Preta Gil character, \"one that people know the stage. Say the Preta woman from the stage is a more liberal without locks on the tongue, foul mouth like that,\" Preta told the \"EGO\".\n\nWaiting for the 2010 FIFA World Cup through the pre-release first live DVD/Blu-ray of \"Preta Gil\" was on July 17, 2010, in \"Scala Rio,\" with a big party.\n\nWith the packed house at \"The Week Rio\", and an audience of about three thousand people, Gil celebrated the anniversary of her show and pre-release of his DVD/Blu-ray which hits stores in August: \"It's eight-year career and three of them working on this show. Today I am an artist mature and aware enough of my segment. I have a wonderful staff and very nice experience every minute with this whole situation,\" Preta told the \"EGO\" during a conversation in the dressing room.\n\nPreta Gil celebrated 10 years of career with burning the DVD/Blu-ray, \"\", which took place on the evening of Wednesday, October 23, 2013, at \"Citibank Hall\" in Rio de Janeiro. With a mix of Brazilian rhythms ranging from pop to swing, passing through funk, axé, pagode and samba, the show had the participation of Lulu, Ivete Sangalo, Anitta, Israel and Thiago Novaes and had three hours of duração. Some songs had to be repeated due to the raspy voice of singer and errors in some letters. Master Pablo in front of the battery \"Black Power\" with 10 drummers and dancers on stage gave a special glow to the show .\n\n\"Every singer dreams about it, with this mega production. I am very happy\" said Preta, who despite having taken a physical therapist did not care about the knee problem, jumped high heels and used during the presentation said. \" Only now can\"\n\nDuring Carnival 2014, South Korean singer, Psy, will sing alongside the Preta Gil, also, besides singing alongside Claudia Leitte integrates the programming of \"Varanda Elétrica\" the cabin \"Expresso 2222\".\n\nFor Carnival 2014, Preta Gil is to schedule more crowded than ever. Altogether, Gil will perform 19 shows over 15 days. Your street block in the Marvelous City, the \"Bloco da Preta\" (Preta's Block), is the third largest in the Rio de Janeiro and has already reached concentrate to 2.5 million people in the streets. To account for so much work, the singer is staffed by a team of diverse professionals. \"Before he was afraid of wardrobe, shoe, every detail. Caused me pain Everything. Had remedy, analgesic and ice packs waiting for me at the exit of each show. Had two knee injuries in 2010 and 2012 carnivals. Today learned to delegate responsibility and caring for me. I osteopath, physiotherapist, Rodrigo (groom) as personal , speech therapist. useless But not so many people taking care of me if I did not care for it myself\", she says, who claims not to leave more heavy routine interfere with your health.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "8055769", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8055769", "title": "Protecting power", "text": "Protecting power\n\nA protecting power is a country that represents another sovereign state in a country where it lacks its own diplomatic representation. It is common for protecting powers to be appointed when two countries break off diplomatic relations with each other. The protecting power is responsible for looking after the sending state's diplomatic property and citizens in the hosting state. If diplomatic relations were broken by the outbreak of war, the protecting power will also inquire into the welfare of prisoners of war and look after the interests of civilians in enemy-occupied territory.\n\nThe institution of protecting power dates back to the Franco-Prussian War of 1870 and was formalized in the Geneva Convention of 1929. Protecting powers are authorized in all four of the Geneva Conventions of 1949. In addition, the International Red Cross may itself be appointed a protecting power under Protocol I (1977). The practice of selecting a protecting power in time of peace was formalized in the Vienna Convention on Diplomatic Relations (1961).\n\nThe protecting power is appointed by the sending state and must also be acceptable to the host state. It must therefore maintain diplomatic relations with both states. In time of war, the Geneva Conventions also require the protecting power to be a neutral country. The specific responsibilities and arrangements are agreed between the protecting power, the sending state, and the host country.\n\nIn a comprehensive mandate, the protecting power carries out most diplomatic functions on behalf of the protected state. This is necessary when relations are so hostile that the sparring nations have no diplomatic or consular staff posted on each other's territory. For example, Sweden carries out limited consular functions for the United States, Canada, and Australia in North Korea.\n\nIn other cases, the two nations have broken diplomatic relations, but are nevertheless willing to exchange personnel on an informal basis. The protecting power serves as the mechanism for facilitating this exchange. The embassy of the protected state is staffed by its own diplomatic personnel, but it is formally termed an \"interests section\" of the protecting power. Between 1991 and 2015, the Cuban Interests Section was staffed by Cubans and occupied the old Cuban embassy in Washington, D.C., but it was formally a section of the Swiss Embassy to the United States.\n\nThere is no requirement that the same protecting power be selected by both countries, although this is convenient for the purposes of communication. Each may appoint a different protecting power, provided that the choice is acceptable to the other state. There is also no requirement that a country select only one protecting power in the receiving country. During the Second World War, Japan appointed Spain, Sweden and Switzerland to be its protecting powers in the United States.\n\nAlthough protecting powers have existed in diplomatic usage since the 16th century, the modern institution of protecting power originated in the Franco-Prussian War of 1870–1871. All of the belligerents appointed protecting powers, necessitated by the expulsion of diplomats and placing of restrictions on enemy aliens. The United States acted as protecting power for the North German Confederation and several of the smaller German states, while Switzerland was the protecting power for Baden and Bavaria, and Russia for Württemberg. Meanwhile, the United Kingdom served as the protecting power for France.\n\nThe energetic efforts of Elihu B. Washburne, the United States Minister to France, set a precedent for the actions of protecting powers in war. The American flag was raised over the North German Embassy, and the embassy archives were transferred to the U.S. legation for safekeeping. Washburne arranged for the evacuation of 30,000 North German subjects from France in the opening days of the war. As the only chief of mission from a major power to remain in the French capital during the Siege of Paris, he was also charged with the protection of seven Latin American consulates and was responsible for feeding 3,000 German civilians who were stuck in the city.\n\nAfter the Franco-Prussian War, the appointment of protecting powers became customary international law. In subsequent wars, the protecting powers expanded their duties with the consent of the belligerents. In the First Sino-Japanese War, both sides selected the United States as their protecting power, establishing the concept of a reciprocal mandate. During the Spanish–American War, the United States requested neutral inspection of prisoner of war camps for the first time.\n\nSince the institution of protecting power had not been formalized by treaty, disputes arose over the protecting power's rights and responsibilities. In the Second Boer War, the British Empire selected the United States to be its protecting power, but the Boers refused to allow the U.S. to transmit funds from the British government to prisoners of war. The Netherlands, acting as the protecting power for the Boer Republics, was also unable to secure an agreement to exchange the names of prisoners of war. Two years later during the Russo-Japanese War, the belligerents agreed to exchange lists of prisoners, communicating through France as the protecting power for Russia, and the United States as the protecting power for Japan. The practice of swapping prisoner lists became customary and was eventually included in the Geneva Convention of 1929.\n\nThe United States was initially a popular choice for protecting power, going back to its protection of the North German Confederation during the Franco-Prussian War. The pinnacle of American diplomatic protection came during World War I, when the United States accepted reciprocal mandates from five of the largest belligerents on both sides: Britain, France, Austria-Hungary, Germany, and the Ottoman Empire. Between 1914 and 1917, the United States accepted a total of 54 mandates as protecting power. When the United States entered the war on the Allied side in 1917, the American mandates were transferred to smaller neutrals, with the Netherlands, Spain, and Switzerland being popular choices.\n\nIn the interwar period, the role of a protecting power was finally formalized in the Geneva Convention of 1929. Protecting powers were allowed to inspect prisoner of war camps, interview prisoners in private, communicate freely with prisoners, and supply books for the prison library. However, a suggestion by the International Committee of the Red Cross that it be made responsible for ensuring compliance with the treaty was rejected.\n\nThe United States remained a popular choice at the start of World War II, accepting 75 mandates on behalf of Allied countries between 1939 and 1941. However, the United States was no longer seen as a disinterested neutral, and none of the Axis countries asked the United States to be its protecting power. The greater scope of the war also disqualified two of the most popular protecting powers of the First World War: Francoist Spain remained neutral but was Axis-leaning, and the Netherlands were occupied by Germany. As a result, Switzerland and Sweden became the most popular choices for protecting power. Switzerland formally undertook 219 mandates for 35 states, and represented another eight states unofficially, while Sweden accepted 114 mandates for 28 states.\n\nThe Geneva Conventions of 1949 addressed the abuses that had taken place during World War II. The appointment of a protecting power had been optional in the 1929 Convention, but the 1949 Convention made it obligatory. All four of the Conventions refer to protecting powers, and the Fourth Geneva Convention formalized the role of protecting powers toward civilians. The detaining power was also required to appoint a substitute whenever the benefit of a protecting power was lost. 70% of prisoners of war had lost their protecting power in World War II because their governments were disputed or had ceased to exist. Anticipating a war in which every country was a belligerent, the Conventions provide the option of appointing an international organization as protecting power.\n\nThe superpower rivalry of the Cold War led to changes in the institution of protecting power. The United States, which had accepted over 200 mandates as protecting power before 1945, was no longer seen as a disinterested third party and managed to secure only one mandate after 1945. Instead, the United States had to appoint a protecting power to represent its interests over a dozen times since 1945. Switzerland and Sweden both chose to remain non-aligned in the Cold War and refused to join any military alliances, leading to their continued popularity as protecting powers. Since 1945, Switzerland has held as many as 24 simultaneous mandates as protecting power.\n\nThe interests section was born in the aftermath of Rhodesia's Unilateral Declaration of Independence in 1965, when nine African countries broke off diplomatic relations with the United Kingdom. The protecting power for the United Kingdom notified the receiving governments that British diplomats were members of the protecting power's own embassy. As a result, the British diplomats retained their diplomatic immunity and could stay in the former British embassy, which had been placed into the charge of the protecting power. The innovation was widely adopted after the Six-Day War of 1967. The Arab states allowed American diplomats to remain in their capitals as the \"U.S. Interests Section\" of the respective protecting power, while Israel allowed Soviet diplomats to remain in Tel Aviv as the \"Soviet Interests Section\" of the Finnish Embassy.\n\nThe fiercest proxy wars of the Cold War were civil wars, including the Vietnam War. Because the principal belligerents each claimed to be the country's sole legitimate government, they did not recognize each other and refused to maintain diplomatic relations with any countries that recognized the other side. This difficulty was resolved by Protocol I (1977) to the Geneva Conventions, which stipulated that the belligerents should nominate protecting powers to the International Committee of the Red Cross. The Red Cross would then approach any countries that appeared on both lists, without the belligerents having to communicate with each other directly. If no arrangement could be made with a third country, then the belligerents had to accept the Red Cross or another international organization to act as the protecting power.\n\n\nCertain countries may have agreements to provide limited consular services to the citizens of other countries. This does not necessarily constitute a protecting power relationship, as the host country may not have formally agreed, and there may in fact be diplomatic relations between the host country and the third country, but no physical representation. Without the agreement of the host country, consular officials in this role may not be recognized as representing the interests of another, and be limited to a \"good offices\" role.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "286362", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=286362", "title": "Ramon Magsaysay Award", "text": "Ramon Magsaysay Award\n\nThe Ramon Magsaysay Award is an annual award established to perpetuate former Philippine President Ramon Magsaysay's example of integrity in governance, courageous service to the people, and pragmatic idealism within a democratic society. The prize was established in April 1957 by the trustees of the Rockefeller Brothers Fund based in New York City with the concurrence of the Philippine government. The award is internationally-recognized as Asia's Nobel Prize counterpart and is the highest award given to Asian individuals and organizations.\n\nIt is named after Ramon Magsaysay, the third President of the Philippines. The Ramon Magsaysay Award Foundation gives the prize to Asian individuals achieving excellence in their respective fields. The awards were given in six categories, five of which were discontinued in 2009:\n\nIn May 1957, seven prominent Filipinos were named to the founding board of trustees of the Ramon Magsaysay Award Foundation, the non-profit corporation tasked with implementing the awards program. Later on, the board of trustees diversified and included prominent Asians from all over the Asian continent and outlying islands.\n\nThe RMAF recognizes and honors individuals and organizations in Asia regardless of race, creed, sex, or nationality, who have achieved distinction in their respective fields and have helped others generously without anticipating public recognition. The awards have traditionally been given in five categories: government service; public service; community leadership; journalism, literature, and creative communication arts; and peace and international understanding.\n\nThe winners of the Ramon Magsaysay Awards come from different parts of Asia, although there are some instances where the winners came from countries outside Asia who had served, worked or accomplished something in different Asian countries. As of 2016, recipients have come from twenty-two Asian countries.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "44427584", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44427584", "title": "Reza Fallah", "text": "Reza Fallah\n\nReza Fallah (1909–1982) was an Iranian businessman and political advisor. He shaped the Iranian oil policy under Shah Mohammad Reza Pahlavi.\n\nReza Fallah was born on September 15, 1909, in Kashan, Iran. He graduated from high school in Tehran. He studied Petroleum Engineering at the University of Birmingham in England on a British Petroleum scholarship, receiving a PhD.\n\nIn 1939, he returned to Iran and worked in the private sector. He then taught and served as Dean of the Abadan Technical Institute.\n\nIn the 1950s and 1960s, he served as general manager the Abadan Refinery, formerly owned by the Anglo-Iranian Oil Company. He served as deputy chairman of the National Iranian Oil Company from 1974 to 1979. During that time, he advised Shah Mohammad Reza Pahlavi and essentially shaped Iran's oil policy. He was also a co-founder of the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries (OPEC).\n\nDuring the Iranian revolution of 1979, he accompanied the Shah into exile. He refused to return to Iran, despite being summoned by Prime Minister Mehdi Bazargan. Indeed, he was on Ayatollah Khomeini's death list.\n\nHe was married to Maheen Fallah. They had three daughters: Lilly Fallah Lawrence and Gina \"Kooky\" Fallah. A third daughter died in a car accident when they were living in Tehran.\n\nHe died on December 5, 1982, in Windsor, near London, England. He is buried in Brookwood Cemetery.\n"}
{"id": "41585654", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41585654", "title": "Rome and Jerusalem", "text": "Rome and Jerusalem\n\nRome and Jerusalem: The Last National Question () is a book published by Moses Hess in 1862 in Leipzig. It gave impetus to the Labor Zionism movement. In his \"magnum opus\", Hess argued for the Jews to return to Palestine, and proposed a socialist country in which the Jews would become agrarianised through a process of \"redemption of the soil\". \n\nThe book was the first Zionist writing to put the question of Jewish nationalism in the context of European nationalism. \n\nHess blended secular as well as religious philosophy, Hegelian dialectics, Spinoza's pantheism and Marxism.\n\nIt was written against the background of German Jewish assimilationism, German antisemitism and German antipathy to nationalism arising in other countries. Hess used terminology of the day, such as the term \"race\", but he was an egalitarian who believed in the principles of the French Revolution, and wanted to apply the progressive concepts of his day to the Jewish people.\n\nWritten in the form of twelve letters addressed to a woman in her grief at the loss of a relative. \nIn his work, Hess put forward the following ideas:\n\nAt the time the book was met with a cold reception, and only in retrospect it became one of the basic works of Zionism, as it prefigured ideas laid out in \"Der Judenstaat\" by Theodor Herzl by some 35 years.\n\n"}
{"id": "9391736", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9391736", "title": "Silent agitators", "text": "Silent agitators\n\nMany organizations have used stickers to publicize their philosophy or cause. The Industrial Workers of the World (IWW), which during its colorful history has pioneered a variety of creative tactics, calls its stickers silent agitators, or silent organizers. Professor Eric Margolis has written about the history of such media,\n\nWobbly organizers were revolutionary fish swimming in the sea of bindle stiffs and tramp workers. The Wobbly card was a ticket to ride the rails. \"Side door coaches,\" as box cars were called, were plastered with paper stickers, \"silent organizers,\" that Wobs put up everywhere they passed: \"Join the One Big Union,\" \"I Will Win,\" \"Win a World.\" \n\nSilent agitators were produced by the millions. Professor Margolis described the way such stickers were used when the Wobblies called a strike in 1927:\n\nBill Lloyd, Superintendent at the Puritan Mine (in Colorado's northern coal field), went to work one chilly Autumn morning to discover Wobbly stickers pasted on every timber and cross beam in the place: \"Join the Wobblies, Join the Wobblies,\" he said indignantly, \"From the bottom of the shaft clear to the working faces, see, they had these posters.\"\n\nBig Bill Haywood described in his autobiography how the IWW issued stickers to propagandize against the war. The stickers declared, \"Don't be a soldier, be a man. Join the I.W.W. and fight on the job for yourself and your class.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "4047028", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4047028", "title": "Sporting Shooters Association of Australia", "text": "Sporting Shooters Association of Australia\n\nThe Sporting Shooters' Association of Australia (SSAA) was established in 1948 to promote the shooting sports and protect firearm owners' interests in Australia. The SSAA currently claims a membership of over 186,000, making it the largest body representing licensed firearm owners in Australia, with interests covering all aspects of recreational shooting and hunting, including firearms collecting and youth education. The SSAA also participates in the ongoing debates on government firearms policies.\n\nThe SSAA is organised at the bottom level as local sporting clubs, around locations and/or speciality shooting disciplines or conservation activities. Members may be unaffiliated with a club, or members of one or more clubs. Clubs are organised in branches, where each club sends two voting delegates to the branch AGM. A state may have one or more branches according to the population and size of membership. State level executive teams deal with state level sporting management and legislative issues, and elect the SSAA National Executive Board. SSAA states it is independent of any political party and supports politicians who support recreational shooting and hunting while condemning those that work against its members' interests.\n\nThe SSAA at the club and branch level has many thousands of volunteers and officials running competitions and managing facilities of their clubs for all levels of competition. The SSAA manages more than 16 handgun, rifle and shotgun shooting competitions at the local, state, national and international levels, as well as having several branches devoted to historic and collectible firearms. \n\nThe SSAA also comprises an insurance arm, SSAA Insurance Brokers Pty Ltd, which provides general insurance for the majority of major shooting organisations within Australia, as well as public liability insurance for SSAA members while shooting or hunting.\n\nThe SSAA publishes a range of publications, including the monthly \"Australian Shooter\", quarterly \"Australian Hunter\", annual \"Australian & New Zealand Handgun\", biannual \"The Junior Shooter\", \"SSAA's Comprehensive Guide to Shooting & Hunting in Australia\", \"Shooting and the SSAA - A Beginner's Guide\", \"A Journalist's Guide to Firearms and the Shooting Sports\", \"ASJ: The political voice of the SSAA\", the \"SSAA National E-newsletter\", \"Field to Fork - The Australian Game Cookbook\", and more.\n\nThe national branch of the SSAA collects $10 million in annual fees.\n\n"}
{"id": "41428595", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41428595", "title": "The Trussell Trust", "text": "The Trussell Trust\n\nThe Trussell Trust is a NGO and charity, based in Salisbury, UK, that co-ordinates the only nationwide network of food banks in the country.\n\nThe Trussell Trust was founded in 1997, by Paddy and Carol Henderson while working with street children in Bulgaria at Sofia Central Railway Station. Named for Carol's mother Betty Trussell from whom they had received a legacy, the couple's work spread to the United Kingdom after the couple were contacted by a British mother who was struggling to feed her children.\n\nAfter researching the issue of short-term hunger in the area, Henderson founded the first of the trust's food banks in the garage and shed of his Salisbury home.\n\nThe trust runs a network of food banks across the United Kingdom. In 2004 they ran only two food banks. With new banks opening every week, it was estimated in a May 2013 report published by Oxfam and Church Action on Poverty that over 500,000 people had used the trust's food banks. The number of people using food banks in the first half of the 2014-15 financial year was 38% higher than the same period the previous year. Reasons why people have difficulty getting enough to eat include redundancy, sickness, delays over receiving , domestic violence, family breakdown, debt, additional fuel costs in winter. Some clients of foodbanks are in work but cannot afford everything they need due to low pay. In 2015, the trust released figures showing that there were over one million users of food banks during the 2014-2015 financial year.\n\nThe banks run on a 'front line' model rather than a 'warehouse' model. That is, food is taken in and distributed directly to those who need it. People are referred to the food banks by doctors, social services, CAB and police who assess need to ensure that it is genuine. Visitors are given vouchers for three days' worth of food, with each visitor eligible for no more than three vouchers. Visitors are also signposted to agencies that can help with longer-term difficulties. The Trussell Trust needs extra donations during the long summer school holiday because school children from poor families do not get free school meals then.\n\nThe charity continues to work in Bulgaria, where it operates programmes that work with street children in the country, and Romani people who are among the poorest in the region.\n\n"}
{"id": "309620", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=309620", "title": "Trisodium phosphate", "text": "Trisodium phosphate\n\nTrisodium phosphate (TSP) is the inorganic compound with the chemical formula NaPO. It is a white, granular or crystalline solid, highly soluble in water, producing an alkaline solution. TSP is used as a cleaning agent, builder, lubricant, food additive, stain remover, and degreaser.\n\nThe item of commerce is often partially hydrated and may range from anhydrous NaPO to the dodecahydrate NaPO·12 HO. Most often found in white powder form, it can also be called trisodium orthophosphate or simply sodium phosphate.\n\nTrisodium phosphate is produced by neutralization of phosphoric acid using sodium hydroxide, often with sodium carbonate. Carbonate can only produce disodium phosphate:\n\nTrisodium phosphate was at one time extensively used in formulations for a variety of consumer-grade soaps and detergents, and the most common use for trisodium phosphate has been in cleaning agents. The pH of a 1% solution is 12 (i.e., very basic), and the solution is sufficiently alkaline to saponify grease and oils. In combination with surfactants, TSP is an excellent agent for cleaning everything from laundry to concrete driveways. This versatility and low manufacturing price made TSP the basis for a plethora of cleaning products sold in the mid-20th century. TSP is still sold and used as a cleaning agent, but since the late 1960s, its use has diminished in the United States and many other parts of the world because, like many phosphate-based cleaners, it is known to cause extensive eutrophication of lakes and rivers once it enters a water system. Substitutes are generally not as effective.\n\nTSP is commonly used after cleaning a surface with mineral spirits to remove hydrocarbon residues and may be used with household chlorine bleach in the same solution without hazardous reactions. This mixture is particularly effective for removing mildew, but is less effective at removing mold.\n\nAlthough it is still the active ingredient in some toilet bowl-cleaning tablets, TSP is generally not recommended for cleaning bathrooms because it can stain metal fixtures and can damage grout.\n\nWith the formula <chem>Na3PO4.1/4NaOCl.11H2O</chem> the material called chlorinated trisodium phosphate is used as a disinfectant and bleach, like sodium hypochlorite. It is prepared using NaOCl in place of some of the base to neutralize phosphoric acid.\n\nIn the U.S., trisodium phosphate is an approved flux for use in hard soldering joints in medical-grade copper plumbing. The flux is applied as a concentrated water solution and dissolves copper oxides at the temperature used in copper brazing. Residues are water soluble and can be rinsed out before plumbing is put into service.\n\nTSP is used as an ingredient in fluxes designed to deoxygenate nonferrous metals for casting. It can be used in ceramic production to lower the flow point of glazes.\n\nTSP is still in common use for the cleaning, degreasing, and deglossing of walls prior to painting. TSP breaks the gloss of oil-based paints and opens the pores of latex-based paint, providing a surface better suited for the adhesion of the subsequent layer.\n\nSodium phosphates including monosodium phosphate, disodium phosphate, and trisodium phosphate are approved as food additives in the EU. They are commonly used as acidity regulators and have the collective E number E339. The United States Food and Drug Administration lists sodium phosphates as generally recognized as safe.\n\nTrisodium phosphate has gained a following as a nutritional supplement that can improve certain parameters of exercise performance. The basis of this belief is the fact that phosphate is required for the energy-producing Krebs cycle central to aerobic metabolism. Phosphates are available from a number of other sources that are much milder than TSP. While TSP is not toxic per se, it is severely irritating to gastric mucosa unless used as part of a buffered solution.\n\nIn the Western world, phosphate usage has declined owing to ecological problems with the damage to lakes and rivers through eutrophication.\n\nBy the end of the 20th century, many products that formerly contained TSP were manufactured with TSP substitutes, which consist mainly of sodium carbonate along with various admixtures of nonionic surfactants and a limited percentage of sodium phosphates.\n\nProducts sold as TSP substitutes, containing soda ash and zeolites, are promoted as direct substitutes. However, sodium carbonate is not as strongly basic as trisodium phosphate, making it less effective in demanding applications. Zeolites, which are clay based, are added to laundry detergents as water softening agents and are essentially non-polluting; however, zeolites do not dissolve and can deposit a fine, powdery residue in the wash tub. Cleaning products labeled as TSP may contain other ingredients, with perhaps less than 50% trisodium phosphate.\n\n"}
{"id": "13263565", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13263565", "title": "United Nations Security Council Resolution 181", "text": "United Nations Security Council Resolution 181\n\nUnited Nations Security Council Resolution 181, adopted on August 7, 1963, was concerned with an arms build-up by the Republic of South Africa and fears that those arms might be used to further the racial conflict in that country. The Council called upon the government of South Africa to abandon its policy of apartheid, as first requested to by Resolution 134 (1960), and called upon all states to voluntarily cease the sale and shipment of all arms, ammunition and other military equipment to South Africa.\n\nThe resolution was adopted by nine votes to none; France and the United Kingdom abstained. However, the resolution had little immediate effect on the conduct of the regime in South Africa.\n\n\nResolution 181\n"}
{"id": "41727144", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41727144", "title": "Unity (Hungary)", "text": "Unity (Hungary)\n\nUnity (), also called: Left unity (Hungarian: \"Baloldali összefogás\") was the informal name of a short-lived political alliance in Hungary of five political parties formed for contesting the 2014 Hungarian parliamentary election.\n\nThe parties involved were the Hungarian Socialist Party (MSZP), Together 2014 (E14), Democratic Coalition (DK), Dialogue for Hungary (PM) and Hungarian Liberal Party (MLP).\n\n"}
{"id": "50346295", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50346295", "title": "Vera Security", "text": "Vera Security\n\nVera is an enterprise data security and information rights management platform that provides encryption and tracks and controls digital information shared across users, devices, applications, and platforms. Vera gives developers access to its IRM-as-a-service (IRMaaS) platform via a REST API and downloadable software development kit.\n\nVera was founded in 2014, by Ajay Arora, CEO, and Prakash Linga, CTO. Prior to founding Vera, Ajay and Prakash were the co-founders of RAPsphere, a mobile security company that was acquired by AppSense in 2012.\n\nVera launched its product in April 2015. Within the first year of operations, Vera announced partnerships with Dropbox, Okta, and Centrify, as well as strategic integrations with Box, VMware, and Microsoft Office. Vera focuses its sales and marketing efforts on large enterprises in industries such as financial services, media & entertainment, manufacturing, and technology sectors.\n\nVera was nominated as a top 10 finalist for the Innovation Sandbox competition at RSA Conference 2016, and CRN Magazine named Vera one of the \"10 Coolest Security Startups of 2015\".\n\nVera is a privately funded company with $31 million in venture financing. The company announced a $14 million Series A round in November 2014, which included the hiring of Robin Daniels as CMO. In February 2016, Vera announced a $17 million Series B round, led by Sutter Hill Ventures, with participation from existing investors, Battery Ventures, Amplify Partners, and other private investors. In May 2016, Capital One Growth Ventures joined the company’s Series B round of financing and founding CEO of Veritas Software, Mark Leslie, joined Vera’s board of directors. Roger Lee (Battery Ventures) and Stefan Dyckerhoff (Sutter Hill Ventures) also serve on the company’s board.\n\nThrough its content and storage-agnostic platform, Vera is capable of securing any type of digital content, anywhere it’s stored. Vera does not require end users to download proprietary agents or plug-ins to access secure data and offers native, integrations to common file sharing and enterprise platforms like Office 365, Box, Dropbox, and Okta.\n\nIn March 2016, Vera announced its SDK, which allows developers to add encryption, tracking, policy enforcement, and access control to custom and legacy business applications.\n\n"}
{"id": "44039517", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44039517", "title": "Werner Schulz", "text": "Werner Schulz\n\nWerner Gustav Schulz (born January 22, 1950 in Zwickau) is a German politician (Alliance '90/The Greens). He was from 1990 to 2005 a Member of the German Bundestag and from 2009–2014 a Member of the European Parliament (MEP). Schulz is considered the only profiled civil rights activist from East Germany who prevailed permanently in his party.\n\nWerner Schulz grew up in Zwickau, the son of an independent haulage contractor and former professional officer from a social-democratic dominated family. From 1964 to 1968, he attended the \"\" Advanced High School. His father forbade him to join the Young Pioneers. He received a degree in Food Technology at the Humboldt University of Berlin in 1972. From 1974 he worked as a research assistant working at the Humboldt University.\n"}
{"id": "2899657", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2899657", "title": "Yokusan Sonendan", "text": "Yokusan Sonendan\n\nThe was an elite para-military youth branch of the \"Imperial Rule Assistance Association\" political party of wartime Empire of Japan established in January 1942, and based on the model of the German Sturmabteilung (stormtroopers).\n\nMembers received a deep political indoctrination and basic military training. Their responsibilities included forming part of the home guard to assist in matters of civil defense under the direction of official local authorities. They were issued mostly obsolete weapons provided to the organization under orders from their Director-General Kingoro Hashimoto, and were intended to assist local efforts in fire fighting following air raids, distribution of emergency supplies and rendering basic first aid. The most advanced pupils were earmarked for eventual enrollment in the Imperial Japanese Army Academy, or for a future role as elected local politicians within the \"Taisei Yokusankai\" organization.\n\nIn addition to its civil defence and para-military role, the Yokusan Sonendan was also tasked with assisting the local \"tonarigumi\" organizations and the \"Kempeitai\" in watching for any signs of subversive ideologies in their local areas and reporting any anti-war or anti-government activities.\n\nIn the last stages of World War II, the members receiving additional military training in the use of anti-tank weapons and light machine guns, for conversion into reserve combat units to support Japan's remaining troops against the projected invasion of the Japanese homeland by the Allies. The group suffered heavy combat casualties during the Battle of Okinawa. The Yokusan Sonendan was disbanded on 30 May 1945 and its membership merged into the Volunteer Fighting Corps.\n\nNotes\nBibliography\n"}
