{"id": "5515115", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5515115", "title": "Al Tomaini", "text": "Al Tomaini\n\nAurelio \"Al\" Tomaini (February 25, 1912 - August 30, 1962), was once the world's tallest individual. Tomaini claimed a height of 8 feet, 5½ inches; however, he was really 7 feet, 4 inches.\n\nTomaini was the son of Santo Tomaini and Maria Bossone. At the age of 12, he was taller than his father, who stood 6 feet, 3 inches tall. He had a great-grandfather in Italy who was also of abnormal height. His parents consulted a physician who, through the use of X-rays, discovered the cause of his giantism to be an over-active pituitary gland.\n\nTomaini was a sideshow performer. He was working in a circus at the Great Lakes Exposition in Cleveland in 1943, when he met his future wife, Jeanie. After eloping from the circus, the couple settled in the circus community of Gibsonton, Florida. There he became active in community affairs. He was owner and operator of Giants Camp lodge and Fish Camp, a TV repair shop, and a tourist trailer court. He weighed 357 pounds and wore size 26 shoes. His death was in 1962.\n\nSome of his relatives in 2018 are Matthew Tomaini, Matty Tomaini, Ashlynn Tomaini, Heather Tomaini, Nicole Tomaini, Deborah Tilton, John Tilton, Andrew Tilton, etc.\n\n"}
{"id": "33185559", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33185559", "title": "Aleksandr Torshin", "text": "Aleksandr Torshin\n\nAleksandr Porfiryevich Torshin (; November 27, 1953, Ust-Bolsheretsky District) is a Russian politician. He served in the Federation Council of Russia, from 2001 to 2015. He was its acting Chairman for four months in 2011. As of July 2018, he is a deputy governor of the Central Bank of Russia. Torshin is from and represented Mari El Republic in parliament. Allegations have been made about his involvement with the Russian mafia.\n\nHe graduated from the All-Union Legal Correspondence Institute with a degree in law in 1978. From 1990 to 1991 he was an employee of the department for relations with socio-political organizations of the apparatus of the CPSU Central Committee.\n\nFrom 1995 to 1998 he was the State Secretary of the Bank of Russia, was responsible for interaction with government bodies, public organizations and the media.\n\nIn 1998, he assumed the authority of a representative of the government of the Russian Federation in the State Duma in the rank of deputy head of the government apparatus.\n\nFrom 1999 to 2001, he worked as Deputy General Director – State Secretary of the State Corporation \"Agency for Restructuring Credit Organizations\".\n\nIn January 2001, Alexander Torshin becomes a member of the Federation Council from the government of the Russian Republic of Mari El.\n\nIn January 2002, he was appointed deputy chairman of the Federation Council.\n\nIn August 2004, he joined the ranks of the party \"United Russia\".\n\nIn September 2008, Torshin became the first deputy chairman of the Federation Council.\n\nFrom May 18 to September 21, 2011 served as chairman of the Federation Council.\nHe served in the Federation Council of Russia, the upper house of the Russian parliament, from 2001 to 2015, and as its acting Chairman for four months in 2011. Torshin, originating from the Mari El Republic, a republic in Russia, is a leading figure in the ruling United Russia party.\n\nThere have also been accusations made that he is a leading figure within the Russian mafia.\n\nSome time between 1995 and 1998, Torshin was State Secretary of the Central Bank of Russia. Torshin entered the Federation Council of Russia in 2001. He became the acting chairman for the succeeding Sergey Mironov on May 19, 2011, after Mironov was ousted by the majority United Russia in the Council. Torshin remained as acting chairman until the election of Valentina Matviyenko also from the United Russia Party. She assumed her responsibilities on September 21, 2011. He remained in the Federation Council until 2015. Torshin has been the deputy head of the Central Bank of Russia since 2015. \n\nIn 2016, a Spanish investigation connected Torshin with Alexander Romanov, the leader of the Tambovskaya Gang, who had been arrested in Spain and sentenced to four years in prison in May 2016 for illegal transactions. Torshin was allegedly involved in money laundering for the gang. According to Spanish police, he gave instructions to members of the Gang on laundering, through banks and real estate in Spain. They concluded that in the structure of the organized criminal group, Torshin \"stood higher\" than Romanov. As a result of wiretapping, which took place several months before the arrest of Romanov, Spanish intelligence agencies concluded that Romanov was following financial orders from Torshin, and that Torshin himself could be the manager of the assets of the gang. Romanov‘s properties in Spain, 80% of which Spanish police believe belong to Torshin, have been confiscated.\n\nSpanish police had planned to arrest Torshin in 2013 when he arrived in Mallorca for a friend's birthday party, but he did not arrive. Spanish police speculated he might have been tipped off by Russian authorities. \n\nIn 2018, wiretappings from the Spanish police were handed over to the FBI. When asked if this had any relationship with politics in the US, José Grinda, a Spanish prosecutor, replied \"Mr. Trump's son should be concerned.\"\n\nTorshin, and his assistant (sometimes described as his associate or representative) Maria Butina, have established a cooperative relationship between United States-based National Rifle Association (NRA) and the Russian-based \"\" which Butina founded in 2011. Torshin has been attending NRA annual meetings in the United States since at least 2011. Following the 2011 meeting then NRA President David Keene expressed his support for Torshin's \"endeavors\" and extended an invitation to the 2012 meeting. Torshin has attended every NRA annual meetings between 2012 and 2016, occasionally with Butina, and has met every NRA president since 2012. Torshin has tweeted that he and Butina are the only two Russians he knows of who are lifetime NRA members. Butina and Torshin attended the 2014 NRA annual meeting as special guests of former NRA president Keene.\n\nTorshin has been a subject of an investigation by the Senate Intelligence Committee into Russian interference in the 2016 United States elections. In January 2018, \"McClatchyDC\" reported that Robert Mueller's Special Counsel investigation is pursuing allegations that Torshin has links to Russian organized crime, and laundered money from the Russian government to the NRA to benefit Trump's campaign. Torshin is also the subject of a probe by the Federal Bureau of Investigations into whether the Russian government attempted to illegally funnel money to the NRA in order to help Trump win the presidency. On May 16, 2018, the Senate Intelligence Committee released a report stating it had obtained \"a number of documents that suggest the Kremlin used the National Rifle Association as a means of accessing and assisting Mr. Trump and his campaign\" through Torshin and Butina, and that \"The Kremlin may also have used the NRA to secretly fund Mr. Trump’s campaign.\" Most of that money was spent by an arm of the NRA that is not required to disclose its donors. In April 2018, the United States Department of the Treasury's Office of Foreign Assets Control imposed sanctions on 23 Russian nationals, including Torshin, whose assets in the United States were frozen and whose entry into the United States barred, besides being subject to other financial disabilities.\n\n\"The New York Times\" reported on July 17, 2018 that Torshin was scheduled to visit the White House in 2017, but the meeting was canceled after a national security aide noted Torshin was under investigation by Spanish authorities for money laundering.\n\n"}
{"id": "4700858", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4700858", "title": "Ardeshir Irani", "text": "Ardeshir Irani\n\nKhan Bahadur Ardeshir Irani (5 December 1886 – 14 October 1969); popularly known as Ardeshir Irani, was a writer, director, producer, actor, film distributor, film showman and cinematographer in the silent and sound eras of early Indian cinema. He was renowned for making films in Hindi, Telugu, English, German, Indonesian, Persian, Urdu and Tamil. He was a successful entrepreneur who owned film theatres, a gramophone agency, and a car agency.\n\nArdeshir Irani was born into a Zoroastrian family on 5 December 1886 in Poona, Bombay Presidency. His parents had migrated from the city of Ardabil in Iran in 1879, through the land route via Baluchistan and Sindh. In 1905, Irani became the Indian representative of Universal Studios and he ran Alexander Cinema in Bombay with Abdulally Esoofally for over forty years. It was at Alexander Cinema that Ardeshir Irani learnt the rules of the art of filmmaking and became fascinated by the medium. In 1917, Irani entered the field of film production and produced his first silent feature film, \"Nala Dayamanti\", which released in 1920.\n\nIn 1922, Irani joined Bhogilal Dave, the former manager of Dadasaheb Phalke's Hindustan Films, and established Star Films. Their first silent feature film, \"Veer Abhimanyu\" was released in 1922 and starred Fatima Begum in the female lead. Dave, a graduate of the New York School of Photography, shot the films while Irani directed and produced them. Star Films produced seventeen films before Irani and Dave dissolved the partnership.\nIn 1924, Irani founded Majestic Films, joined by two talented youngsters, B.P. Mishra and Naval Gandhi. At this establishment, Irani produced the films and either Mishra or Gandhi directed the films. Despite its success, fifteen films later, Majestic Films closed, giving way to the equally short-lived Royal Art Studios which had exactly the same life-span as the earlier two, however, it became famous for a certain type of romantic films. Irani improved on it, using new talent to great effect.\n\nIn 1925, Irani founded Imperial Films, where he made sixty-two films. By the age of forty, Irani was an established filmmaker of Indian cinema. Ardeshir Irani became the father of talkie films with the release of his sound feature film, \"Alam Ara\" on 14 March 1931. Many of the films he produced were later made into talkie films with the same cast and crew. He is also accredited with making the first Indian English feature film, \"Noor Jahan\" (1931). He completed his hat-trick of earning fame when he made the first colour feature film of India, \"Kisan Kanya\" (1937). His contribution does not end only with giving voice to the silent cinema and colour to black-and-white films. He gave a new courageous outlook to filmmaking in India and provided such a wide range of choice for stories in films that till date, there are films being made which have a theme relating to one of the one hundred fifty-eight films made by Irani.\n\nIn 1933, Irani produced and directed the first Persian talkie, \"Dokhtar-e-Lor\". The script was written by Abdolhossein Sepanta who also acted in the film along with members of the local Parsi community.\n\nIrani's Imperial Films introduced a number of new actors to Indian Cinema, including Prithviraj Kapoor and Mehboob Khan. He also interfered with the medium. He produced \"Kalidas\" in Tamil on the sets of \"Alam Ara\", with songs in Telugu. Also, Irani visited London, England for fifteen days to study sound recording and recorded the sounds of \"Alam Ara\" on the basis of this knowledge. In the process, he created a whole new trend unknowingly. In those days, outdoor shootings were shot in sunlight with the help of reflectors. However, the outdoor undesirable sounds were disturbing him so greatly that he shot the entire sequence in the studio under heavy lights. Thus, he began the trend of shooting under artificial light.\n\nIrani made one hundred fifty-eight films in a long and illustrious career of twenty-five years, between the First and Second World Wars. He made his last film, \"Pujari\", in 1945. Irani was not compelled to live like Dadasaheb Phalke for he realised that the war was a time not suitable for film business and therefore he suspended his film business during that time. He died on 14 October 1969 at the age of eighty-two, in Mumbai, Maharashtra.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "23652639", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23652639", "title": "Armenian Genocide survivors", "text": "Armenian Genocide survivors\n\nArmenian Genocide survivors are Western Armenians who were not killed in the Genocide of 1915. Most of the survivors became refugees outside Turkey, the successor state of the Ottoman Empire.\n\nAbout 70,000 Armenians remain in Turkey, mostly in Istanbul. This figure does not include an unknown number of assimilated Crypto-Armenians.\n\nAccording to the US State Department, in 1922 there were 817,873 Armenian refugees who had originated from Turkey. This figure was based upon information provided by the British Embassy in Constantinople and 1921 data from the Near East Relief Society. The total given did not include able-bodied Armenians detained by Kemalist Turkey, nor Armenian women and children - approximately 95,000, according to the League of Nations – who have been forced to convert to Islam. \n\nAccording to the same source, there were 281,000 Armenians still living in Turkey in 1921: 150,000 in Constantinople (Istanbul) and 131,000 in Asia Minor.\n\nThere was also an Armenian settlement problem that brought conflict with other ethnic residents. In all, there were over 300,000 embittered and impatient Armenian refugees escaping from the Ottoman Empire which were now the DRA government's responsibility. This proved an insurmountable humanitarian issue. Typhus was a major sickness, because of its effect on children. Conditions in the outlying regions, not necessarily consisting of refugees, weren't any better. The Ottoman governing structure and Russian army had already withdrawn from the region. The Armenian government had neither time nor resources to rebuild the infrastructure. The 393,700 refugees were under their jurisdiction as follows:\nThe government of Hovhannes Kachaznuni was faced with a most sobering reality in the winter of 1918-19. The newly formed government was responsible for over half a million Armenian refugees in the Caucasus. It was a long and harsh winter. The homeless masses, lacking food, clothing and medicine, had to endure the elements. Many who survived the exposure and famine succumbed to the ravaging diseases. By the spring of 1919, the typhus epidemic had run its course, the weather improved and the first American Committee for Relief in the Near East shipment of wheat reached Batum. The British army transported the aid to Yerevan. Yet by that time some 150,000 of the refugees had perished. Vratsian puts this figure at around 180,000, or nearly 20% of the entire nascent Republic. A report in early 1919 noted that 65% of the population of Sardarabad, 40% of the population of eight villages near Etchmiadzin and 25% of the population of Ashtarak had died.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "47330658", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47330658", "title": "Bhagwan Lal Indraji", "text": "Bhagwan Lal Indraji\n\nBhagwan Lal Indraji or Bhagwanlal Indraji (1839-1888) was an Indian archaeologist and scholar. A member of the Royal Asiatic Society's Bombay branch, he made transcripts of several ancient Indian inscriptions, including the Hathigumpha inscription. He discovered many archaeological relics, including the Mathura lion capital, the Bairat and Sopara Ashokan inscription, the Nanaghat reliefs, the Mathura Vishnu image, drum miniature stupa with a frieze of eight metopes representing the four principal and four secondary scenes from Buddha's life, Jain Aayagpata, various Mathur railing pillars, Mankuwar Buddha, Besnagar coping stone depicting Bodhi Tree, and Gadava surya frieze. He was the first Indian to receive an honourary doctorate from a foreign University (Leiden University).\n\nBhagwan Lal Indraji was born in 1839, in Junagadh. He obtained his primary education in Junagadh, and learnt Sanskrit from his father, a Prashnora Nagar Brahmin.\n\nAs a teenager, Bhagwan Lal frequented Girnar, which had several rocks with inscriptions in the Brahmi script. Colonel Lang, the Political Agent of Kathiawar took a lot of interest in these inscriptions. In 1854, he handed over a copy of James Prinsep's paper containing Pali Brahmi alphabet to Manishankar Jatashankar, a local scholar. Jatashankar shared it with Bhagwan Lal, who made a copy of his own. Using this copy, Bhagwan Lal tried to decipher the Rudradaman I inscription on a Girnar rock. He could not understand the compound letters and the \"matra\"s. So, he wrote to a friend in Bombay, requesting research material related to Girnar rock inscriptions. In response, he received several journals of the Royal Asiatic Society's Bombay branch. Using this material, he mastered the Pali alphabet, including its several varieties from different periods. He was able to make out unfamiliar letters, and to address omissions and inaccuracies in Prinsep's copy. He finally succeeded making a completely new transcript of the Rudradaman inscription, which greatly impressed Colonel Lang. He mastered the Brahmi script. A.K. Forbes, who succeeded Lang as the Political Agent, introduced Bhagwan Lal to Bhau Daji, a renowned Bombay-based scholar of India antiquties.\n\nBhau Daji commissioned Bhawanlal to prepare facsimiles and transcripts of Girnar inscriptions. In October 1861, Daji invited Bhagwan Lal to Bombay. There, he introduced him to H. Newton, the President of the Royal Asiatic Society's Bombay branch. Newton was writing a paper on Western Kshatrapas, and some Kshatrapa coins brought by Bhagwan Lal greatly interested him. Bhagwan Lal also presented his transcripts of Girnar's Rudradaman and Skandagupta inscriptions. At that time, Bhau Daji was doing research on the Sah inscription of Girnar. He found Horace Hayman Wilson's translation of the inscription to be inadequate, and requested Bahgwan Lal to make a new transcript. Accordingly, Bhagwan Lal set out to Kathiwar. There, he learnt of his father's death. After performing the funeral rites, he set out to Girnar, and prepared a new transcript of the Sah inscription. An impressed Daji later employed Bhagwan Lal permanently. On 24 April 1862, Bhagwan Lal moved to Bombay, where he initially lived in a tent in the compound of Daji's house.\n\nIn 1863, Bhau Daji sent Bhagwan Lal as a draftsman to Ajanta Caves. Bhagwan Lal returned to Bombay with the new transcripts. In Bombay, he spent time making transcripts of the inscriptions recovered from the caves at Nashik, Karli, Bhaja, Bhayandar, Junnar, Pitalkhora and Nanaghat. At Nanaghat, Bhagwan Lal discovered earliest reliefs of the early Satavahana rulers Satakarni, Queen Nayanika, Vedisiri and other princes.\n\nOn 22 December 1863, Bhagwan Lal set out on a tour of British India; his companions included Ardeshir Framji Moos and Cursetji Nusserwanji Cama among others. The group toured South India, North-Western Provinces, Bengal and North India.\n\nIn 1864, Bhau Daji sent Bhagwan Lal and Pandurang Gopal Padhye to Jaisalmer, to examine the ancient Jain manuscripts. The two men spent three months there, preparing copies of the literature preserved in the Jain manuscripts at a \"bhandar\" (store house). However, the damp atmosphere of the \"bhandar\" made them sick. Bhagwan Lal was down with typhoid for 22 days during his stay at Jaisalmer. The two returned to Bombay in May 1864.\n\nIn 1865, Bhagwan Lal set out on a year-long expedition to visit Banaras, Bodh Gaya, Barabar, Nagarjuni caves in Bihar, Hathigumpha caves, Dhauli, jaugada at Orissa and various ancient shrines, in order to personally examine the old inscriptions and architecture.\n\nIn 1868, Bhagwan Lal set out on a year-long expedition to visit the ancient Hindu shrines, in order to examine the old inscriptions. He first visited Nagpur and Jabalpur, before spending five days in Allahabad. There, he made a transcript of a Samudragupta inscription, and sent it to Bhau Daji. This new transcript revealed new names of the king's contemporaries. Next, Bhagwan Lal visited Banaras, Bhitari, Mathura and Delhi. In Mathura, in 1869, he excavated the Mathura lion capital. He discovered 'Kambojika' (a Gandhara-style life-size statue). He purchased several Bactrian and Scythian coins from the local markets, until he ran out of money. He also discovered several other sculptures that including the famous Vishnu statue, which is now at National Museum (New Delhi) and a linga image (now lost). He extended his jorney to Bodh Gaya before returning to Mumbai.\n\nOn 7 March 1871, Bhagwan Lal set out on another journey, financed by the Junagadh princely state. At the instance of Bhau Daji, Charles James Lyall, Under-Secretary to the Government of India, provided him a letter. The letter directed the Magistrates of Mathura, Agra, Benares, Farrukhabad, Gorakhpur, Ghazipur and Allahabd to help Bhagwan Lal in his pursuits. Accompanied by his wife Gangaben, Bhagwan Lal visited (in that order) Khandwa, Omkareshwar, Indore, Ujjain, Bhojpur, Dhar, Mandu, Bhilsa (Besnagar), Sanchi, Eran, Udayagiri, Benares, Sarnath, Allahabad, Bhitari, Delhi, Kalsi, Mathura, Agra and Gwalior. At Gwalior, his wife fell seriously ill, and he had to return to Bombay via Allahabad in March 1872.\n\nAfter his wife recovered from illness, Bhagwan Lal again set out an expedition in December 1873. Once again, the princely state of Junagadh agreed to sponsor the journey. This time, Bhagwan Lal visited Nepal, Indo-Tibet border, Baluchistan and the Yusufzai territory. He also visited the Barabar and Nagarjunni Caves, Gaya, Bodh Gaya, Kashmir and Taxila.\n\nBhagwan Lal was a pioneer in Ashokan studies. He discovered the archaeological sites at Bairat and Sopara. He excavated Sopara and published an excavation report. He was the first Indian to excavate and publish the report. Most of the inscriptions in Archaeological Survey of Western India Reports volume 4 and 5 were his contributions. He was co-author (with James Burgess of \"Inscriptions from the Caves Temples of Western India with descriptive notes\". He was the main contributor to Burgess' \"Ajanta Notes and Rock-cut Temples at Badami in the Deccan\".\n\nBhagwanlal contributed extensively to Thana, Poona, Nasik, volumes of The Gazetters of the Bombay Presidency, where he contributed on Eksar Memorial stones, Elephanta. Jogeshwari Kondivti, Lonad Pulu Sonala caves, on Shahur-Atgaon sculptures, Junnar and nanghat Caves, Nasik caves. He contributed socio-religious study on Pandharpur in Sholapur Gazetteer.\n\nHe also arranged a genealogy of the Kashtriya rulers of India, on the basis of coins. In addition, he prepared detailed records of language, costumes, lifestyle, religion and culture in various regions of India. He gifted all his notes, inscriptions, coins, manuscripts and other research material to the Royal Asiatic Society, the British Museum and the Bombay Native General Library.\n\nBhagwan Lal did not know English, which greatly impeded his research and reach of his contributions. He died on 16 March 1888, after a prolonged illness.\n\nHonours accorded to Bhagwan Lal include:\n\n"}
{"id": "4046871", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4046871", "title": "Bolt (DC Comics)", "text": "Bolt (DC Comics)\n\nBolt is a fictional character and supervillain in the DC Comics Universe.\n\nBolt first appeared in \"Blue Devil\" #6 (November 1984) and was created by Gary Cohn, Dan Mishkin, Paris Cullins, and Ernie Colón.\n\nLarry Bolatinsky is a special effects artist and assassin. He designed a special suit that gives him the power to teleport and project energy blasts. Now calling himself Bolt, he has faced the superheroes Blue Devil, Captain Atom, and Starman (Will Payton).\n\nBolt appears in \"Suicide Squad\" vol. 1, #63–66 (March through June 1992) as part of a more villainous version of the Squad propping up the dictatorship in the island of Diabloverde. Amanda Waller and her Squad take out him and his colleagues while attempting to remove the dictator.\n\nHe joins a sub-group of assassins that call themselves the \"Killer Elite\". One of their many battles puts them up against the merc team called the \"Body Doubles\". Bolt is hospitalized in an off-panel battle.\n\nHe joins the third incarnation of the Suicide Squad and apparently dies on his first mission alongside Killer Frost, Putty, Eliza and Larvanaut. He falls through a shaft, breaks his leg and is attacked by killer ants. He is seen dead in the hands of Killer Frost. He later turns up alive again in the pages of \"Identity Crisis\" #1 and is badly injured by two street kids, suffering a punctured lung and two punctured kidneys. He has since joined The Society. His seemingly miraculous resurrections have been noted by other characters, most notably during his recovery from his gunfire-related injuries.\n\nBolt is member of Luthor, Joker and Cheetah's Injustice League Unlimited and is one of the villains featured in Salvation Run. He is one of the villains sent to retrieve the Get Out of Hell free card from the Secret Six.\n\nBolt is later killed by his son Dreadbolt who uses his own suit's teleporting ability to send him into a brick wall. He has been identified as one of the deceased entombed below the Hall of Justice. He was subsequently revived as a member of the Black Lantern Corps.\n\nBolt's son Terry Bolatinsky appears in \"Teen Titans\" #55. He initially attempts to befriend Blue Devil's former sidekick, Kid Devil, before revealing he is following in his father's footsteps as Dreadbolt. He tries to persuade Kid Devil to join his team, the Terror Titans, but when Kid Devil refuses, he joins the rest of the Terror Titans in defeating him. Later, at the request of the new Clock King, he is sent to help defeat Ravager, who already took out Persuader and Copperhead. He threatens to kill Wendy and Marvin, but Ravager calls his bluff and defeats him alone. He regroups with his teammates and attempts to take her down again, but is apparently killed in the pursuing explosion caused by Ravager breaking a gas pipe. He is later revealed to have used the teleportation system in his suit to get himself and his teammates to safety. \n\nIn the \"Terror Titans\" miniseries, Dreadbolt is tasked by Clock King to kill his father, thereby proving himself worthy to lead his fellow Terror Titans. Clock King then renames him Bolt when he finally does. Disruptor, having lost favor from Clock King to Ravager, tried to manipulate Terry into killing her, but Terry was not fooled. When Clock King sets in motion his plan to destroy Los Angeles with an army of brainwashed metahumans, Ravager set out to stop him. Bolt and the Terror Titans battled her, only to be outmaneuvered. Miss Martian, who had posed as one of the metahumans, freed the others from their brainwashing, and they came after the Terror Titans. Retreating to Clock King's lair for help, Bolt and the others are aghast to see Clock King kill Disruptor for her failure, and leave them at the mercy of the oncoming metahumans. Bolt offers to hold them off while his teammates get away, but they insist on fighting together and are eventually subdued, with Dreadbolt being defeated by electromagnetic-powered superhero Static. Two weeks later, Bolt and the remaining Terror Titans escape from custody, planning revenge on Clock King.\n\nA new villain inspired by Bolt debuted as part of a team of supervillains hired by Prometheus. He later appeared, hired by Calculator, to help kidnap the Birds of Prey and kill Oracle. Calling himself Current, he explains that he worked with the late Larry Bolatinsky and wished to carry on his legacy.\n\nLarry Boltanisky is a skilled special effects technician and assassin. Thanks to a special suit he designed, he is able to teleport short distances instantaneously. The suit also contains an energy blaster that can be used as a weapon. Terry's suit has all of the same abilities.\n\n"}
{"id": "39824722", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39824722", "title": "British Bangladeshi Power &amp; Inspiration 100", "text": "British Bangladeshi Power &amp; Inspiration 100\n\nBritish Bangladeshi Power & Inspiration 100 (previously known as British Bangladeshi Power 100 and often abbreviated as BBPower100) is an annual publication listing the 100 leading British Bangladeshi figures. It was established in 2012 and also holds an annual launch ceremony in London, England.\n\nThe \"British Bangladeshi Power 100\" is a celebration of leading British citizens of Bangladesh origin who are helping shape Britain for the better with their ideas, example, talent, success and inspiration. It is a who's who, which recognises the achievements in the Bangladeshi community including sports personalities, politicians, business people and legal eagles. In 2013, the list was renamed \"British Bangladeshi Power & Inspiration 100\" to emphasise the role models featured on the list.\n\nThe \"British Bangladeshi Power\" was created and edited by Tower Hamlets Cllr Abdal Ullah, who was the first British Bangladeshi to serve on the Metropolitan Police Authority and is a Labour elected councillor for St Dunstan's and Stepney Green, and Ayesha Qureshi MBE, who had a prominent role in the 2012 Olympics bid.\n\nEach category has 10 positions which are listed in rank order. The rankings have been determined by an advisory committee of leading Bangladeshi UK based newspaper editors headed by chief advisor, Mohammed Nobab Uddin, Editor, Janomot Bengali Newsweekly, the oldest ethnic newspaper. The \"British Bangladeshi Power 100\" is consulted on widely amongst a selected group of leading figures in the community, including Iqbal Wahhab OBE and Syed Nahas Pasha. Each person or organisation named on the list has earned their place on merit after a confidential, impartial and thorough debate.\n\nIn 2012, the list was broken down into 10 different categories covering business, catering, education, community and voluntary organisations, media, politics and as well as the women who have made a mark. In 2013, the list was extended into 20 different categories including politics, entrepreneur, brand, policy/civil service, legal, academic/think tanker, medical, the city/finance, community activist, media, culture, community personality, restaurateur, professional, networks and associations, sport, religious figure, 30 and under, community organisation, and emerging influence. 35 new entries were added into the list. All those categorised under \"Emerging Influence\" were new inclusions and there were no new entries into the category \"Entrepreneur\" and \"Restaurateur\".\n\nIn 2014, for first time, the general public participated in the selection process by nominating their most inspiring figures in British Bangladeshi society. The Judges awarded the People's Choice places to five people who demonstrated examples of success and inspiration. Also in 2014, the list includes \"10 Inspirational Bangladeshis Around The World\", a top ten of Bangladeshis around the world.\n\nIn 2015, two new categories – the Critics' Choice and Westminster Hopefuls – highlighting British Bangladeshi individuals who have been selected as prospective parliamentary candidates for the next general election, were introduced.\n\nOn 24 January 2012, during a press conference at Portcullis House in Westminster, London Abdal Ullah, Ayesha Qureshi MBE and Nobab Uddin launched the first \"British Bangladeshi Power 100\" list.\n\nOn 27 January 2013, the advisory committee announced the names for the list at a press conference held at the Commonwealth Room in the House of Commons. Guests at the reception included: Theresa May MP, Chuka Umunna MP, Rushanara Ali MP, Stephen Timms MP, John Biggs AM and Simon Hughes MP. The event was hosted by Anne Main MP.\n\nOn 27 January 2014, the list was announced in a Commonwealth Room at the Houses of Parliament. The top 100 names were announced by figures including Baroness Sayeeda Warsi, Rt. Hon Danny Alexander MP, Anne Main MP (Chair of the All Party Parliamentary Bangladesh Group), Dame Tessa Jowell MP, Lord Karan Bilimoria, Mijarul Quayes Bangladesh High Commissioner to the UK and a number of other MPs and dignitaries were in attendance.\n\nOn 27 January 2015, former foreign secretary William Hague MP was guest of honour, joined by MPs Dame Tessa Jowell and Alan Johnson at a celebration dinner marking the launch of the list in One Canada Square, Canary Wharf. On 3 February, the list was launched in Dhaka, Bangladesh.\n\nOn 2 February 2016, notable guests included British politicians Lord Karan Bilimoria, Paul Scully MP, Anne Main MP, Karen Buck MP, Sir Keir Starmer MP, Ronnie Campbell MP, Greater London Authority Member Murad Qureshi and Bangladesh High Commissioner Mohammed Abdul Hannan at the ceremony at London's City Hall. Among the most influential in the list are British Ambassador to Peru Anwar Choudhury Ambassador to Philippines Asif Ahmad, Musician Shapla Salique, Choreographer Akram Khan, Nohshad Shah, MD of Goldman Sachs, Professor Moorad Choudhry, Chief Executive of Habib Bank AG Zurich, Businessmen Iqbal Ahmed OBE, Amin Ali and in Politics three MP's Rushanara Ali, Tulip Siddiq and Rupa Huq.\n\nNotable entries in the \"British Bangladeshi Power 100\" have included Ruby Hammer MBE, who started off as a make-up artist and went on to become a successful entrepreneur. Ajmal Hossain QC, a barrister. Other prominent names include Iqbal Ahmed OBE (Chairman of the Seamark Group), Sapnara Khatun (barrister and judge), [Asif Ahmad|Asif Anwar Ahmad]] (Ambassador to Thailand), Prof Moorad Choudhry (Treasurer RBS) and Mihir Bose (sports journalist), Shadoq Education Minister Rushanara Ali, Prospective Parliamentary candidate Tulip Siddiq, former British High Commissioner to Bangladesh Anwar Choudhury.\n\nMedia personalities have included Nina Hossain, Konnie Huq and Tasmin Lucia-Khan. Other notable entries include British kickboxing champion Ruqsana Begum and singer Mumzy Stranger.\n\nIn 2013, included in the entrepreneur and business section are Telecoms managing director Naufal Zamir The list also revealed less well known and emerging faces such as Sabirul Islam (the \"Teen-Trepreneur\"), Rahima Begum (founder of human rights charity Restless Beings) and Zoe Rahman. In 2014, the list also contained less well-known and emerging faces such as Rupa Huq (Labour Prospective Parliamentary Candidate for Ealing) and Zubair Hoque Formula 4 Racing Driver.\n\nIn 2013, the list also recognised the contribution made by British Bangladeshis to the London 2012 Olympic and Paralympic Games including names such as Akram Khan MBE (choreographer and performer at the Olympic Games opening ceremony), Dr Muhammad Abdul Bari (LOCOG board member and Chairman of the East London Mosque), Saiman Miah (Olympic £5 coin designer), PC Sakira Suzia (Olympic torch security team) and Ayesha Qureshi MBE (London 2012 bid member).\n\nIn 2014, Nobel laureate and Grameen Bank founder Dr Muhammad Yunus ranked top of \"10 Inspirational Bangladeshis Around The World\". Among others, the list also includes YouTube founder Jawed Karim, Brac's founder and chairperson Sir Fazle Hasan Abed, founder of Khan Academy Salman Khan, JAAGO Foundation's founder Korvi Rakshand, lawyer Sara Hossain, cricketer Shakib Al Hasan, CEO of Medtronic Omar Ishrak, founder of Sumazi.com Sumaya Kazi and Everest climber Nishat Mazumder.\n\nIn 2015, Judge Khatun Sapnara was named the \"Person of the Year\" in recognition of her \"outstanding achievement\" as the first person of British Bangladeshi origin to acquire a senior judicial position. The list also included oncologist Prof Nazneen Rahman; Dr Irene Zubaida Khan, chancellor of the University of Salford; Baroness Pola Uddin; diplomat Anwar Choudhury; executive mayor of London Lutfur Rahman; lawmaker Rushanara Ali; author Tahmima Anam and captain Naveen Rahman of British Army.\n\nIn 2016, Nadiya Hussain, was named the \"Person of the Year\" for pioneering achievement.\n\n"}
{"id": "1592207", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1592207", "title": "Börries von Münchhausen", "text": "Börries von Münchhausen\n\nBörries Albrecht Conon August Heinrich Freiherr von Münchhausen (20 March 1874 – 16 March 1945) was a German poet and Nazi activist.\n\nHe was born in Hildesheim, the eldest child of Kammerherr Börries von Münchhausen and his wife, Clementine von der Gabelentz. At 13, he was sent to Ilfeld to the monastery school. He studied law and political science at the universities of Heidelberg, Munich, Göttingen, and Berlin. He received his degree from the University of Leipzig.\n\nWhile he was still a student, he composed a number of ballads and published his first collection of poetry in 1898, which expressed adherence to German Romantic poets' fascination with the Middle Ages and the world of German legend. All his works appeared around the turn of the century. After World War I, his popularity quickly waned. His position became more and more reactionary with the founding of the Deutsche Dichterakademie, with its seat on the Wartburg, which belonged to von Münchhausen's cousin Hans von der Gabelentz. The motto of the academy was to be \"German, Christian, and above all conscious of tradition.\"\n\nWith Hitler's rise to power, many of the members of the Prussian Academy in Berlin were either dismissed or resigned. This was von Münchhausen's chance, and he signed the Gelöbnis treuester Gefolgschaft, the vow of fidelity to Adolf Hitler. and his friends from the Wartburg were elected to take the place of such writers as Alfred Döblin and Thomas Mann.\n\nVon Münchhausen agreed with Hitler's \"Machtpolitik\" and worked hard to make the Prussian Academy into a German Academy. However, these efforts came to naught despite Hermann Göring's support. As the Allied troops approached his estate of Windischleuba, von Münchhausen took an overdose of sleeping pills and died on 16 March 1945.\n"}
{"id": "44935022", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44935022", "title": "Carl Jan Granqvist", "text": "Carl Jan Granqvist\n\n\"Carl Jan\" Erik Granqvist, (born 22 March 1946) is a Swedish restaurateur, food and wine connoisseur and television personality, as well as professor in the art of food at the \"Norsk hotellhøgskole\" in Stavanger, which is part of the University of Stavanger. He studied art history at Stockholm University between 1967 and 1968. Between 1969 and 1970 he studied at Virginska restaurangskolan, a restaurant school, in Örebro. He has also done an internship at Operakällaren between 1970 and 1972.\n\nCarl Jan Granqvist became the kellermeister of Grythyttans gästgivaregård in 1972 and was later responsible for creating Måltidens hus and the Restaurant school in Grythyttan. He was a pioneer in Sweden with the sapere method which means that the composition of a meal not only considers the smell but also the guests other senses. He was the founder of Vinkällaren Grappe at Östermalm in Stockholm, the first commercial wine storage facility of its kind in Sweden, which started its business in 1986.\n\nHe has participated in several TV shows since his debut in 1983 on SVT with the wine tasting show \"Levande livet\". He has also competed in the show På spåret along with Lotta Bromé on several occasions and they won the 1998 season. He was also co-host for the show between 2004 and 2005 along with Ingvar Oldsberg. In 2006 he hosted the show \"Carl Jans änglar\" on TV3. The same year he was a guest on the Kanal 5 show Boston Tea Party hosted by Filip and Fredrik. In 2009 he was a celebrity dancer in Let's Dance broadcast on TV4.\n\nGranqvist is a member of the Swedish Freemasons Order. In his autobiographic book \"Människan, mötena, måltiden\", Granqvist revealed that he is bisexual.\n"}
{"id": "3744423", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3744423", "title": "Coelho Neto", "text": "Coelho Neto\n\nHenrique Maximiano Coelho Neto (February 21, 1864 – November 28, 1934) was a Brazilian writer and politician. He founded and occupied the second chair of the Brazilian Academy of Letters, from 1897 until his death in 1934. He was also the president of the aforementioned Academy in 1926.\n\nCoelho Neto was born in the city of Caxias, Maranhão, on February 21, 1864. His father was Portuguese, and his mother was an indigenous woman, Ana Silvestre Coelho. At six years of age, his parents moved to Rio de Janeiro. He began his education at the Externato of the Colegio Pedro II. He attempted medical school but soon gave up. In 1883 he enrolled at the University of São Paulo School of Law, living in the boarding house where also lived Raul Pompeia, who attended the Academy of São Paulo at that time. He soon found himself involved in a student movement against a professor. In anticipation of reprisals, he moved to the Law Faculty of Recife, where he completed the first year of law, having been a student of the jurist and poet Tobias Barreto. Returning to São Paulo, he devoted himself passionately to the abolitionist and Republican campaign, an attitude that led to new frictions with the University of São Paulo School of Law. In 1885 he finally abandoned his legal studies and moved to Rio de Janeiro.\n\nHe became part of a group of bohemians that included figures such as Olavo Bilac, Luís Murat, Guimarães Passos and Francisco de Paula Ney. The history of this generation appears later in his novels A Conquista and Fogo Fátuo, dedicated to his friend Francisco de Paula Ney, a brilliant orator and journalist known for his bohemian life style and his famous anecdotes. He joined the newspaper Gazeta da Tarde, later moving to the sheet Cidade do Rio, where he held the position of secretary. From this period date his first published volumes.\n\nIn 1890, he married Maria Gabriela Brandão, daughter of educator Alberto Olympio Brandão. They had 14 children. One of those was the famous football player João Coelho Neto (known as \"Preguinho\").\n\nHe was appointed to the post of secretary of the government of the state of Rio de Janeiro and the following year, director of State Affairs. In 1892 he was appointed professor of art history at the Escola Nacional de Belas Artes (National School of Fine Arts) and, later, professor of literature at the Colégio Pedro II. Author of numerous books, articles, stories and serials, he was appointed professor of history of theater and dramatic literature at the Escola de Arte Dramática (Drama School) in 1910, and soon after director of the same institution.\n\nHe was elected congressman for Maranhão in 1909 and was reelected in 1917. He was also secretary-general of the League of National Defense and a member of the Advisory Board of the Municipal Theater of Rio de Janeiro.\n\nIn addition to holding public office, Coelho Neto maintained and intensified his activities in magazines and newspapers of all sizes, in Rio and other cities. In addition to signing works with his own name, he wrote under numerous pseudonyms, including Anselmo Ribas, Caliban, Ariel, Amador Santelmo, Blanco Canabarro, Charles Rouget, Democ, N. Puck, Tartarin, Fur-Fur and Manés.\n\nIn 1923, he converted to Spiritualism, delivering a speech about his adoption of the spiritual doctrine in the Salão da Velha Guarda (Hall of the Old Guard) in Rio de Janeiro.\n\nHe was active in virtually all literary genres and was for many years the most widely read writer in Brazil. He wrote what could have been the first Brazilian serial movie, The Mysteries of Rio de Janeiro. However, only the first episode was ever completed.\n\nHe was probably the most widely read Brazilian writer in the first decades of the twentieth century. However, he and his work were attacked by the Modernists during the Modern Art Week (or Semana de Arte Moderna, in Portuguese) in 1922 and this probably contributed to his later neglect by publishers and the Brazilian public.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "35034142", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35034142", "title": "David Constantin", "text": "David Constantin\n\nDavid Constantin (born 1974) is a filmmaker from Mauritius.\n\nConstantin was born in Mauritius Island in 1974. \nHe obtained a degree in Information and Communication, and then attended the ESAV (Higher School of Audiovisuals) in Toulouse.\nHe made his first short film in 1998.\nAfter spending five years in France studying cinematography he returned to Mauritius in 2003.\nIn 2007 he organized ILE COURTS, the first short film festival in Mauritius.\nDavid Constantin has established an audiovisual research laboratory at the Charles Baudelaire Cultural Centre.\nHe gives introductory courses for teachers on analysis of the image.\nHe has given seminars on aspects of film for the Université populaire de l'Ile Maurice.\n\nIn 2002 Constantin directed and produced the short film \"Diego l'interdite\" (Diego the Forbidden).\nThis is a documentary about the deportation of the people of the Chagos Island in the Indian Ocean by the US and UK governments.\nThe film won the European Grand Prix of First Films 2002 and Vues d'Afrique 2003.\nIn the years that followed he directed and produced a number of documentaries and short films.\nHe won awards in film festivals such as Vues d’Afrique (Montreal), Amiens (France), Réunion and Milan.\nHis 2005 short \"Bisanville (l'Autobus)\" won prizes at the International Film Festival of Amiens in 2005 and the 12th Film Festival of Africa and the Islands, Reunion 2005.\nHis short comedy \"Made In Mauritius\" was screened at the 2010 African Film Festival of Cordoba.\nIt was also screened at the 22nd African, Asian and Latin American Film Festival in Milan in March 2012.\n\nSelected videos:\nFilm director\n"}
{"id": "45654", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45654", "title": "Dayananda Saraswati", "text": "Dayananda Saraswati\n\nDayanand Saraswati (12 February 1824 – 30 October 1883) was an Indian religious leader and founder of the Arya Samaj, a Hindu reform movement of the Vedic dharma. He was also a renowned scholar of the Vedic lore and Sanskrit language. He was the first to give the call for \"Swaraj\" as \"India for Indians\" in 1876, a call later taken up by Lokmanya Tilak. Denouncing the idolatry and ritualistic worship prevalent in Hinduism at the time, he worked towards reviving Vedic ideologies. Subsequently, the philosopher and President of India, S. Radhakrishnan called him one of the \"makers of Modern India\", as did Sri Aurobindo.\n\nThose who were influenced by and followed Dayananda included Madam Cama, Pandit Lekh Ram, Swami Shraddhanand, Pandit Guru Dutt Vidyarthi, Shyamji Krishna Varma (who established India House in England for Freedom fighters,) Vinayak Damodar Savarkar, Lala Hardayal, Madan Lal Dhingra, Ram Prasad Bismil, Mahadev Govind Ranade, Ashfaq Ullah Khan, Mahatma Hansraj, Lala Lajpat Rai, and others. One of his most influential works is the book \"Satyarth Prakash\", which contributed to the Indian independence movement.\n\nHe was a sanyasi (ascetic) from boyhood, and a scholar. He believed in the infallible authority of the Vedas. Maharshi Dayananda advocated the doctrine of Karma and Reincarnation. He emphasized the Vedic ideals of brahmacharya, including celibacy and devotion to God.\n\nAmong Maharshi Dayananda's contributions are his promoting of the equal rights for women, such as the right to education and reading of Indian scriptures, and his commentary on the Vedas from Vedic Sanskrit in Sanskrit as well as in Hindi.\n\nDayananda Saraswati was born on the 10th day of waning moon in the month of Purnimanta Falguna (<As the tithi Falguna Krishna Dashami falls on 24th February and not on 12th February, 1824>24 February 1824) on the tithi to a Hindu family in Jeevapar Tankara, Kathiawad region (now Morbi district of Gujarat.) His original name was Mul Shankar because he was born in Dhanu Rashi and Mul Nakshatra. His father was Karshanji Lalji Tiwari, a wealthy tax collector, and his mother was Amrutbai. His father also served as the head of an eminent Hindu family of the village. As such Dayanand led a comfortable early life, learning Sanskrit and studying the Vedas and other religious texts.\n\nWhen he was eight years old, his Yajnopavita Sanskara ceremony was performed, marking his entry into formal education. His father was a follower of Shiva and taught him the ways to impress Shiva. He was also taught the importance of keeping fasts. On the occasion of Shivratri, Dayananda sat awake the whole night in obedience to Shiva. On one of these fasts, he saw a mouse eating the offerings and running over the idol's body. After seeing this, he questioned that if Shiva could not defend himself against a mouse, then how could he be the savior of the massive world.\n\nThe deaths of his younger sister and his uncle from cholera caused Dayananda to ponder the meaning of life and death. He began asking questions which worried his parents. He was engaged in his early teens, but he decided marriage was not for him and ran away from home in 1846.\n\nDayananda Saraswati spent nearly twenty-five years, from 1845 to 1869, as a wandering ascetic, searching for religious truth. He gave up material goods and lived a life of self-denial, devoting himself to spiritual pursuits in forests, retreats in the Himalayan Mountains, and pilgrimage sites in northern India. During these years he practiced various forms of yoga and became a disciple of a religious teacher named Virajanand Dandeesha. Virajanand believed that Hinduism had strayed from its historical roots and that many of its practices had become impure. Dayananda Sarasvati promised Virajanand that he would devote his life to restoring the rightful place of the Vedas in the Hindu faith.\n\nDayanand's mission was to ask humankind for universal brotherhood through nobility as stated in the Vedas. He believed that Hinduism had been corrupted by divergence from the founding principles of the Vedas and that Hindus had been misled by the priesthood for the priests' self-aggrandizement. For this mission, he founded the Arya Samaj, enunciating the Ten Universal Principles as a code for Universalism, called \"Krinvanto Vishwaryam\". With these principles, he intended the whole world to be an abode for Nobles (Aryas).\n\nHis next step was to reform Hinduism with a new dedication to God. He traveled the country challenging religious scholars and priests to discussions, winning repeatedly through the strength of his arguments and knowledge of Sanskrit and Vedas. Hindu priests discouraged the laity from reading Vedic scriptures, and encouraged rituals, such as bathing in the Ganges River and feeding of priests on anniversaries, which Dayananda pronounced as superstitions or self-serving practices. By exhorting the nation to reject such superstitious notions, his aim was to educate the nation to return to the teachings of the Vedas, and to follow the Vedic way of life. He also exhorted the Hindu nation to accept social reforms, including the importance of Cows for national prosperity as well as the adoption of Hindi as the national language for national integration. Through his daily life and practice of yoga and asanas, teachings, preaching, sermons and writings, he inspired the Hindu nation to aspire to \"Swarajya\" (self governance), nationalism, and spiritualism. He advocated the equal rights and respects to women and advocated for the education of all children, regardless of gender.\n\nSwami Dayanand also made logical, scientific and critical analyses of faiths including Christianity & Islam, as well as of other Indian faiths like Jainism, Buddhism, and Sikhism. In addition to discouraging idolatry in Hinduism, he was also against what he considered to be the corruption of the true and pure faith in his own country. Unlike many other reform movements of his times within Hinduism, the Arya Samaj's appeal was addressed not only to the educated few in India, but to the world as a whole as evidenced in the sixth principle of the Arya Samaj. As a result, his teachings professed universalism for all the living beings and not for any particular sect, faith, community or nation.\n\nArya Samaj allows and encourages converts to Hinduism. Dayananda's concept of dharma is stated in the \"Beliefs and Disbeliefs\" section of \"Satyartha Prakash,\" he says:\nDayananda's Vedic message emphasized respect and reverence for other human beings, supported by the Vedic notion of the divine nature of the individual. In the ten principles of the Arya Samaj, he enshrined the idea that \"All actions should be performed with the prime objective of benefiting mankind\", as opposed to following dogmatic rituals or revering idols and symbols. The first five principles speak of Truth, while the last five speak of a society with nobility, civics, co-living, and disciplined life. In his own life, he interpreted moksha to be a lower calling, as it argued for benefits to the individual, rather than calling to emancipate others.\n\nDayananda's \"back to the Vedas\" message influenced many thinkers and philosophers the world over.\n\nDayanand is recorded to have been active since he was 14, which time he was able to recite religious verses and teach about them. He was respected at the time for taking parts in religious debates. His debates were attended by relatively large crowd of the public.\n\nOne of the most important debates took place on 22 October 1869 in Varanasi, where he won a debate against 27 scholars and approximately 12 expert pandits. The debate recorded to have been attended by over 50,000 people. The main topic was \"Do the Vedas uphold deity worship?\"\n\nSwami Dayananda Saraswati's creations, the Arya Samaj, condemns practices of several different religions and communities, including such practices as idol worship, animal sacrifice, pilgrimages, priest craft, offerings made in temples, the castes, child marriages, meat eating and discrimination against women. He argues that all of these practices run contrary to good sense and the wisdom of the Vedas. The Arya Samaj discourages dogma and symbolism and encourages skepticism in beliefs that run contrary to common sense and logic.\n\nHe severely criticized the practice what he considered superstitions, including sorcery, and astrology, which were prevalent in India at the time. Below are several quotes from his book, Sathyarth Prakash:\n\nOn Astrology, he wrote,\n\nHe makes a clear distinction between jyotisha shaastra and astrology, calling astrology a fraud.\n\nDayanand Saraswati is noted to have thoroughly studied religions other than Hinduism, including Islam, Buddhism, Jainism, Christianity, Sikhism, and others. He described these religions in the chapters of his book Satyarth Prakash, though his analysis seemed critical.\n\nHe viewed Islam to be waging wars and immorality. He doubted that Islam had anything to do with the God, and questioned why a God would hate every non-believer, allowing slaughter of animals, and command Muhammad to slaughter innocent people.\n\nHe further described Muhammad as \"imposter\", and one who held out \"a bait to men and women, in the name of God, to compass his own selfish needs\". He regarded Quran as \"Not the Word of God. It is a human work. Hence it cannot be believed in\".\n\nHis analysis of the Bible was based on the comparison with scientific evidences, morality, and other properties, though he states that the Bible contains many stories and precepts that are immoral, praising cruelty, deceit and that encourage sin. One notes many discrepancies and fallacies of logic after reading Chapter XIII of Satyarth Prakash, showing e.g. that God fearing Adam eating the fruit of life and becoming his equal displays jealousy. His critique claims to show logical fallacies in the Bible, and throughout he asserts that the events depicted in the Bible portray God as a man rather than an Omniscient, Omnipotent or Complete being.\n\nHe opposed the perpetual virginity of Mary, he added that such doctrines are simply against the nature of law, and that God will never break his own law because God is Omniscient and infallible.\n\nThe Arya Samaj journal, \"The Regenerator of the Aryavata\", called Christian missionaries \"pernicious\" and \"foul\".\n\nHe regarded Guru Nanak as having noble aims but \"not much literate\", who had no knowledge of the Vedas or Sanskrit. Otherwise, according to Swami Dayanand Saraswati, Guru Nanak wouldn't be mistaken with words such as wrongly using \"nirbho\" in place of \"nirbhaya\". However, he compliments Guru Nanak for saving people in Punjab as it was then downtrodden by the Muslims. A Sikh scholar wrote a response, to which Dayanand Saraswati replied that his opinion had undergone a change after having visited the Punjab, and the remarks about Sikhism would be removed in the subsequent edition of his work. However, these remarks were never removed after the assassination of Dayanand Saraswati, and later editions of Satyarth Prakash were even more critical of Sikhism.\n\nHe further pointed that followers of Sikhism are to be blamed for making up stories that Guru Nanak possessed miraculous powers and had met the Gods. He slammed the successors of Nanaka as having \"invented fictitious stories\", although he also recognized Guru Gobind Singh to \"indeed a very brave man\".\n\nHe regarded Jainism as \"a most dreadful religion\", writing that Jains were intolerant and hostile towards the non-Jains.\n\nDayanand described Buddhism as \"anti-vedic\" and \"atheistic\". He describes the type of \"salvation\" Buddhism as being attainable even to dogs and donkeys. He further criticized the Cosmogony of Buddhism, stating that the earth was not created.\n\nDayananda was subjected to many unsuccessful attempts on his life.\n\nAccording to his supporters, he was poisoned on few occasions, but due to his regular practice of Hatha Yoga he survived all such attempts. One story tells that attackers once attacked attempted to drown him in a river, but Dayanand dragged the assailants into the river instead, though he released them before they drowned. Another account tells that he was attacked by Muslims who were offended by his criticism of Islam while meditating on the Ganges river. They threw him into the water but he saved himself because his pranayama practice allowed him to stay under water until the attackers left.\n\nIn 1883, the Maharaja of Jodhpur Swami, Jaswant Singh II, invited Dayananda to stay at his palace. The Maharaja was eager to become Dayananda's disciple, and to learn his teachings. During his stay, Dayananda went to the Maharaja's rest room and saw him with a dancing girl named Nanhi Jaan. Dayananda asked the Maharaja to forsake the girl and all unethical acts, and to follow the dharma like a true Aryan. Dayananda's suggestion offended Nanhi, who decided to take revenge.\n\nOn 29 September 1883, she bribed Dayananda's cook, Jagannath, to mix small pieces of glass in his nightly milk. Dayananda was served glass-laden milk before bed, which he promptly drank, becoming bedridden for several days, and suffering excruciating pain. The Maharaja quickly arranged doctor's services for him. However, by the time doctors arrived, his condition had worsened, and he had developed large, bleeding sores. Upon seeing Dayananda's suffering, Jagannath was overwhelmed with guilt and confessed his crime to Dayananda. On his deathbed, Dayananda forgave him, and gave him a bag of money, telling him to flee the kingdom before he was found and executed by the Maharaja's men.\n\nLater, Maharaja arranged for Swamiji to be sent to Mount Abu as per the advice of Residency, however, after staying for some time in Abu, Swamji was sent to Ajmer for better medical care. On 26 October 1883. There was no improvement in his health and he died on the morning of 30 October 1883 at 6:00 am, chanting mantras. The day coincided with Hindu festival of Diwali.\n\nMaharshi Dayanand University in Rohtak, Maharshi Dayanand Saraswati University in Ajmer, DAV University in Jalandhar are named after him. So are over 800+ schools and colleges under D.A.V. College Managing Committee, including Dayanand College at Ajmer. Industrialist Nanji Kalidas Mehta built the Maharshi Dayanand Science College and donated it to the Education Society of Porbandar, after naming it after Swami Dayanand Saraswati.\n\nDayananda Saraswati is most notable for influencing the freedom movement of India. His views and writings have been used by different writers, including Shyamji Krishna Varma, who founded India House in London and guided other revolutionaries was influenced by him; Subhas Chandra Bose; Lala Lajpat Rai; Madam Cama; Vinayak Damodar Savarkar; Lala Hardayal; Madan Lal Dhingra; Ram Prasad Bismil; Mahadev Govind Ranade; Swami Shraddhanand; S. Satyamurti; Pandit Lekh Ram; Mahatma Hansraj; Rajiv Dixit; and others.\n\nHe also had a notable influence on Bhagat Singh. Singh, after finishing primary school, had joined the Dayanand Anglo Vedic Middle School, of Mohan Lal road, in Lahore. Sarvapalli Radhakrishnan, on Shivratri day, 24 February 1964, wrote about Dayananda:\n\nThe places Dayanand visited during his life were often changed culturally as a result. Jodhpur adopted Hindi as main language, and later the present day Rajasthan did the same. Other admirers included Swami Vivekananda, Ramakrishna, Bipin Chandra Pal, Vallabhbhai Patel, Syama Prasad Mookerjee, and Romain Rolland, who regarded Dayananda as a remarkable and unique figure.\n\nAmerican Spiritualist Andrew Jackson Davis described Dayanand's influence on him, calling Dayanand a \"Son of God\", and applauding him for restoring the status of the Nation. Sten Konow, a Swedish scholar noted that Dayanand revived the history of India.\n\nOthers who were notably influenced by him include Ninian Smart, and Benjamin Walker.\n\nDayananda Saraswati wrote more than 60 works in all, including a 16 volume explanation of the six Vedangas, an incomplete commentary on the Ashtadhyayi (Panini's grammar), several small tracts on ethics and morality, Vedic rituals and sacraments, and a piece on the analysis of rival doctrines (such as Advaita Vedanta, Islam and Christianity). Some of his major works include the Satyarth Prakash, Satyarth Bhumika, Sanskarvidhi, RigvedadiBhashyaBhumika, Rigved Bhashyam (up to 7/61/2)and Yajurved Bhashyam. The Paropakarini Sabha located in the Indian city of Ajmer was founded by the Swami himself to publish and preach his works and Vedic texts.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "44304034", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44304034", "title": "Death of Benito Mussolini", "text": "Death of Benito Mussolini\n\nThe death of Benito Mussolini, the deposed Italian fascist dictator, occurred on 28 April 1945, in the final days of World War II in Europe, when he was summarily executed by Italian partisans in the small village of Giulino di Mezzegra in northern Italy. The official version of events is that Mussolini was shot by Walter Audisio, a communist partisan who used the \"nom de guerre\" of \"Colonel Valerio\". However, since the end of the war, the circumstances of Mussolini's death, and the identity of his killer, have been subjects of continuing confusion, dispute and controversy in Italy.\n\nIn 1940, Mussolini took his country into World War II on the side of Nazi Germany but soon was met with military failure. By the autumn of 1943, he was reduced to being the leader of a German puppet state in northern Italy and was faced with the Allied advance from the south and an increasingly violent internal conflict with the partisans. In April 1945, with the Allies breaking through the last German defences in northern Italy and a general uprising of the partisans taking hold in the cities, Mussolini's situation became untenable. On 25 April he fled Milan, where he had been based, and tried to escape to the Swiss border. He and his mistress, Claretta Petacci, were captured on 27 April by local partisans near the village of Dongo on Lake Como. Mussolini and Petacci were shot the following afternoon, two days before Adolf Hitler's suicide.\n\nThe bodies of Mussolini and Petacci were taken to Milan and left in a suburban square, the Piazzale Loreto, for a large angry crowd to insult and physically abuse. They were then hung upside down from a metal girder above a service station on the square. The bodies were beaten, shot at, and hit with hammers. Initially, Mussolini was buried in an unmarked grave but, in 1946, his body was dug up and stolen by fascist supporters. Four months later it was recovered by the authorities who then kept it hidden for the next eleven years. Eventually, in 1957, his remains were allowed to be interred in the Mussolini family crypt in his home town of Predappio. His tomb has become a place of pilgrimage for neo-fascists and the anniversary of his death is marked by neo-fascist rallies.\n\nIn the post-war years, the \"official\" version of Mussolini's death has been questioned in Italy (but, generally, not internationally) in a way that has drawn comparison with the John F. Kennedy assassination conspiracy theories. Journalists, politicians and historians, doubting the veracity of Audisio's account, have put forward a wide variety of theories and speculation as to how Mussolini died and who was responsible. At least twelve different individuals have, at various times, been claimed to be the killer. These have included Luigi Longo and Sandro Pertini who subsequently became general secretary of the Italian Communist Party and President of Italy respectively. Several writers believe that Mussolini's death was part of a British special forces operation. The aim was supposedly to retrieve compromising \"secret agreements\" and correspondence with Winston Churchill that Mussolini had allegedly been carrying when he was captured. However, the \"official\" explanation, with Audisio as Mussolini's executioner, remains the most credible narrative.\n\nMussolini had ruled Italy as its fascist leader since 1922 (and as dictator with the title \"Il Duce\" from 1925) and had taken the country into World War II on the side of Nazi Germany in June 1940. Following the Allied invasion of Sicily in July 1943, Mussolini was deposed and put under arrest; Italy then switched sides and joined the Allies. Later that year, he was rescued from prison in the Gran Sasso raid by German special forces and Hitler installed him as leader of the Italian Social Republic, a German puppet state set up in northern Italy and based at the town of Salò near Lake Garda. By 1944, the \"Salò Republic\", as it came to be called, was threatened not only by the Allies advancing from the south but also internally by Italian anti-fascist partisans, in a brutal conflict that was to become known as the Italian civil war.\n\nSlowly fighting their way up the Italian peninsula, the Allies took Rome and then Florence in the summer of 1944 and later that year they began advancing into northern Italy. With the final collapse of the German army's Gothic Line in April 1945, total defeat for the Salò Republic and its German protectors was imminent.\n\nFrom mid-April Mussolini based himself in Milan, and he and his government took up residence in the city's Prefecture. At the end of the month, the partisan leadership, the \"Comitato di Liberazione Nazionale Alta Italia\" (CLNAI), declared a general uprising in the main northern cities as the German forces retreated. With the CLNAI's assumption of control in Milan and the German army in northern Italy about to surrender, Mussolini fled the city on 25 April and attempted to escape north to Switzerland.\n\nOn the same day as Mussolini left Milan, the CNLAI declared:\n\nOn 27 April 1945, Mussolini and his mistress Claretta Petacci, together with other fascist leaders, were travelling in a German convoy near the village of Dongo on the north western shore of Lake Como. A group of local communist partisans led by Pier Luigi Bellini delle Stelle and Urbano Lazzaro attacked the convoy and forced it to halt. The partisans recognised one Italian fascist leader in the convoy, but not Mussolini at this stage, and made the Germans hand over all the Italians in exchange for allowing the Germans to proceed. Eventually Mussolini was discovered slumped in one of the convoy vehicles. Lazzaro later said that:\n\nHis face was like wax and his stare glassy, but somehow blind. I read utter exhaustion, but not fear ... Mussolini seemed completely lacking in will, spiritually dead.\n\nThe partisans arrested Mussolini and took him to Dongo, where he spent part of the night in the local barracks. In all, over fifty fascist leaders and their families were found in the convoy and arrested by the partisans. Aside from Mussolini and Petacci, sixteen of the most prominent of them would be summarily shot in Dongo the following day and a further ten would be killed over two successive nights.\nFighting was still going on in the area around Dongo. Fearing that Mussolini and Petacci might be rescued by fascist supporters, the partisans drove them, in the middle of the night, to a nearby farm of a peasant family named De Maria; they believed this would be a safe place to hold them. Mussolini and Petacci spent the rest of the night and most of the following day there.\n\nOn the evening of Mussolini's capture, Sandro Pertini, the Socialist partisan leader in northern Italy, announced on Radio Milano:\nThe head of this association of delinquents, Mussolini, while yellow with rancour and fear and trying to cross the Swiss frontier, has been arrested. He must be handed over to a tribunal of the people so it can judge him quickly. We want this, even though we think an execution platoon is too much of an honour for this man. He would deserve to be killed like a mangy dog.\n\nDiffering accounts exist of who made the decision that Mussolini should be summarily executed. Palmiro Togliatti, the Secretary-General of the Communist Party, claimed that he had ordered Mussolini's execution prior to his capture. Togliatti said he had done so by a radio message on 26 April 1945 with the words: \"Only one thing is needed to decide that they [Mussolini and the other fascist leaders] must pay with their lives: the question of their identity\". He also claimed that he had given the order as deputy prime minister of the government in Rome and as leader of the Communist Party. Ivanoe Bonomi, the prime minister, later denied that this was said with his government's authority or approval. A senior communist in Milan, Luigi Longo, said that the order came from the General Command of the partisan military units \"in application of a CLNAI decision\". Longo subsequently gave a different story: he said that when he and Fermo Solari, a member of the Action Party (which was part of the CLNAI), heard the news of Mussolini's capture they immediately agreed that he should be summarily executed and Longo gave the order for it to be carried out.\n\nAccording to Leo Valiani, the Action Party representative on the CLNAI, the decision to execute Mussolini was taken on the night of 27/28 April by a group acting on behalf of the CLNAI comprising himself, Sandro Pertini, and the communists Emilio Sereni and Luigi Longo. The CLNAI subsequently announced, on the day after his death, that Mussolini had been executed on its orders.\n\nIn any event, Longo instructed a communist partisan of the General Command, Walter Audisio, to go immediately to Dongo to carry out the order. According to Longo, he did so with the words \"go and shoot him\". Longo asked another partisan, Aldo Lampredi, to go as well because, according to Lampredi, Longo thought Audisio was \"impudent, too inflexible and rash\".\n\nAlthough several conflicting versions and theories of how Mussolini and Petacci died were put forward after the war, the account of Walter Audisio, or at least its essential components, remains the most credible and is sometimes referred to in Italy as the \"official\" version.\nIt was largely confirmed by an account provided by Aldo Lampredi and the \"classical\" narrative of the story was set out in books written in the 1960s by Bellini delle Stelle and Urbano Lazzaro, and the journalist Franco Bandini. Although each of these accounts vary in detail, they are consistent on the main facts.\n\nAudisio and Lampredi left Milan for Dongo early on the morning of 28 April to carry out the orders Audisio had been given by Longo. On arrival in Dongo, they met Bellini delle Stelle, who was the local partisan commander, to arrange for Mussolini to be handed over to them. Audisio used the \"nom de guerre\" of \"Colonel Valerio\" during his mission. In the afternoon, he, with other partisans, including Aldo Lampredi and Michele Moretti, drove to the De Maria family's farmhouse to collect Mussolini and Petacci. After they were picked up, they drove a short distance to the village of Giulino de Mezzegra. The vehicle pulled up at the entrance of the Villa Belmonte on a narrow road known as \"via XXIV maggio\" (approximate coordinates: ) and Mussolini and Petacci were told to get out and stand by the villa's wall. Audisio then shot them at 4:10p.m. with a submachine gun borrowed from Moretti, his own gun having jammed.\n\nThere were differences in Lampredi's account and that of Audisio. Audisio presented Mussolini as acting in a cowardly manner immediately prior to his death whereas Lampredi did not. Audisio said he read out a sentence of death, whereas Lampredi omitted this. Lampredi said that Mussolini's last words were \"aim at my heart\". In Audisio's account, Mussolini said nothing immediately prior to or during the execution.\n\nDifferences also exist with the account given by others involved, including Lazzaro and Bellini delle Stelle. According to the latter, when he met Audisio in Dongo, Audisio asked for a list of the fascist prisoners that had been captured the previous day and marked Mussolini's and Petacci's names for execution. Bellini delle Stelle said he challenged Audisio as to why Petacci should be executed. Audisio replied that she had been Mussolini's adviser, had inspired his policies and was \"just as responsible as he is\". According to Bellini delle Stelle no other discussion or formalities concerning the decision to execute them took place.\n\nAudisio gave a different account. He claimed that on 28 April he convened a \"war tribunal\" in Dongo comprising Lampredi, Bellini delle Stelle, Michele Moretti and Lazzaro with himself as president. The tribunal condemned Mussolini and Petacci to death. There were no objections to any of the proposed executions. Urbano Lazzaro later denied that such a tribunal had been convened and said: \nI was convinced Mussolini deserved death ... but there should have been a trial according to law. It was very barbarous.\n\nIn a book he wrote in the 1970s, Audisio argued that the decision to execute Mussolini taken at the meeting in Dongo of the partisan leaders on 28 April constituted a valid judgment of a tribunal under Article 15 of the CNLAI's ordinance on the Constitution of Courts of War. However, the lack of a judge or a \"Commissario di Guerra\" (required by the ordinance to be present) casts doubt on this assertion.\n\nDuring his dictatorship, representations of Mussolini's body for example pictures of him engaged in physical labour either bare-chested or half-naked formed a central part of fascist propaganda. His body remained a potent symbol after his death, causing it to be either revered by supporters or treated with contempt and disrespect by opponents, and assuming a broader political significance.\n\nIn the evening of 28 April, the bodies of Mussolini, Petacci, and the other executed fascists were loaded onto a van and trucked south to Milan. On arriving in the city in the early hours of 29 April, they were dumped on the ground in the Piazzale Loreto, a suburban square near the main railway station. The choice of location was deliberate. Fifteen partisans had been shot there in August 1944 in retaliation for partisan attacks and Allied bombing raids, and their bodies had then been left on public display. At the time, Mussolini is said to have remarked \"for the blood of Piazzale Loreto, we shall pay dearly\".\n\nTheir bodies were left in a heap, and by 9:00a.m. a considerable crowd had gathered. The corpses were pelted with vegetables, spat at, urinated on, shot at and kicked; Mussolini's face was disfigured by beatings. An American eye witness described the crowd as \"sinister, depraved, out of control\". After a while, the bodies were hoisted up on to the metal girder framework of a half-built Standard Oil service station, and hung upside down on meat hooks. This mode of hanging had been used in northern Italy since medieval times to stress the \"infamy\" of the hanged. However, the reason given by those involved in hanging Mussolini and the others in this way was to protect the bodies from the mob. Movie footage of what happened appears to confirm that to be the case.\n\nAt about 2:00p.m., the American military authorities, who had arrived in the city, ordered that the bodies be taken down and delivered to the city morgue for autopsies to be carried out. A US army cameraman took photographs of the bodies for publication, including one with Mussolini and Petacci positioned in a macabre pose as though they were arm-in-arm.\n\nOn 30 April, an autopsy was carried out on Mussolini at the Institute of Legal Medicine in Milan. One version of the subsequent report indicated that he had been shot with nine bullets, while another version specified seven bullets. Four bullets near the heart were given as the cause of death. The calibres of the bullets were not identified. Samples of Mussolini's brain were taken and sent to America for analysis. The intention was to prove the hypothesis that syphilis had caused insanity in him, but nothing resulted from the analysis; no evidence of syphilis was found on his body either. No autopsy was carried out on Petacci. In 2009, Mussolini's granddaughter Alessandra Mussolini demanded a police investigation into claims that samples of his blood and brain had been reportedly offered for sale on eBay.\n\nAfter his death and the display of his corpse in Milan, Mussolini was buried in an unmarked grave in the Musocco cemetery, to the north of the city. On Easter Sunday 1946, Mussolini's body was located and dug up by a young fascist, Domenico Leccisi, and two friends. Over a period of sixteen weeks it was moved from place to place the hiding places included a villa, a monastery and a convent while the authorities searched for it. Eventually, in August, the body (with a leg missing) was tracked down to the Certosa di Pavia, a monastery not far from Milan. Two Franciscan friars were charged with assisting Leccisi to hide the body.\n\nThe authorities then arranged for the body to be hidden at a Capuchin monastery in the small town of Cerro Maggiore where it remained for the next eleven years. The whereabouts of the body was kept a secret, even from Mussolini's family. This remained the position until May 1957, when the newly appointed Prime Minister, Adone Zoli, agreed to Mussolini's re-interment at his place of birth in Predappio in Romagna. Zoli was reliant on the far right (including Leccisi himself, who was now a neo-fascist party deputy) to support him in Parliament. He also came from Predappio and knew Mussolini's widow, Rachele, well.\n\nThe re-interment in the Mussolini family crypt in Predappio was carried out on 1 September 1957, with supporters present giving the fascist salute. Mussolini was laid to rest in a large stone sarcophagus. The tomb is decorated with fascist symbols and contains a large marble head of Mussolini. In front of the tomb is a register for visitors paying their respects to sign. The tomb has become a neo-fascist place of pilgrimage. The numbers signing the tomb's register range from dozens to hundreds per day, with thousands signing on certain anniversaries; almost all the comments left are supportive of Mussolini.\n\nThe anniversary of Mussolini's death on 28 April has become one of three dates neo-fascist supporters mark with major rallies. In Predappio, a march takes place between the centre of town and the cemetery. The event usually attracts supporters in the thousands and includes speeches, songs and people giving the fascist salute.\n\nOutside of Italy, Audisio's version of how Mussolini was executed has largely been accepted and is uncontroversial. However, within Italy, the subject has been a matter of extensive debate and dispute since the late 1940s to the present and a variety of theories of how Mussolini died has proliferated. At least 12 different individuals have been identified at various times as being responsible for carrying out the shooting. Comparisons have been made with the John F. Kennedy assassination conspiracy theories, and it has been described as the Italian equivalent of that speculation.\n\nUntil 1947, Audisio's involvement was kept a secret, and in the earliest descriptions of the events (in a series of articles in the Communist Party newspaper \"L'Unità\" in late 1945) the person who carried out the shootings was only referred to as \"Colonnello Valerio\".\n\nAudisio was first named in a series of articles in the newspaper \"Il Tempo\" in March 1947 and the Communist Party subsequently confirmed Audisio's involvement. Audisio himself did not speak publicly about it until he published his account in a series of five articles in L'Unità later that month (and repeated in a book that Audisio later wrote which was published in 1975, two years after his death). Other versions of the story were also published, including, in the 1960s, two books setting out the \"classical\" account of the story: \"Dongo, la fine di Mussolini\" by Lazzaro and Bellini delle Stelle and \"Le ultime 95 ore di Mussolini\" by journalist Franco Bandini.\n\nBefore long, it was noted that there were discrepancies between Audisio's original story published in \"L'Unità\", subsequent versions that he provided and the versions of events provided by others. Although his account most probably is built around the facts, it was certainly embellished. The discrepancies and obvious exaggerations, coupled with the belief that the Communist Party had selected him to claim responsibility for their own political purposes, led some in Italy to believe that his story was wholly or largely untrue.\n\nIn 1996, a previously unpublished private account written in 1972 by Aldo Lampredi for the Communist Party's archives, appeared in \"L'Unità\". In it, Lampredi confirmed the key facts of Audisio's story but without the embellishments. Lampredi was undoubtedly an eyewitness and, because he prepared his narrative for the private records of the Communist Party – and not for publication – it was perceived that he had no motivation other than to tell the truth. Furthermore, he had had a reputation for being reliable and trustworthy; he was also known to have disliked Audisio personally. For all these reasons it was seen as significant that he largely confirmed Audisio's account. After Lampredi's account was published, most, but not all, commentators were convinced of its veracity. The historian Giorgio Bocca commented that \"it sweeps away all the bad novels constructed over 50 years on the end of the \"Duce\" of fascism ... There was no possibility that the many ridiculous versions put about in these years were true...The truth is now unmistakably clear\".\nIn his 1993 book \"Dongo: half a century of lies\", the partisan leader Urbano Lazzaro repeated a claim he had made earlier that Luigi Longo and not Audisio, was \"Colonnello Valerio\". He also claimed that Mussolini was inadvertently wounded earlier in the day when Petacci tried to grab the gun of one of the partisans, who killed Petacci and Michele Moretti then shot dead Mussolini.\n\nThere have been several claims that Britain's wartime covert operations unit, the Special Operations Executive (SOE), was responsible for Mussolini's death, and that it may have even been ordered by the British prime minister, Winston Churchill. Allegedly, it was part of a \"cover up\" to retrieve \"secret agreements\" and compromising correspondence between the two men, which Mussolini was carrying when he was captured by partisans. It is said that the correspondence included offers from Churchill of peace and territorial concessions in exchange for Mussolini persuading Hitler to join the western Allies in an alliance against the Soviet Union. Proponents of this theory have included historians such as Renzo De Felice and Pierre Milza and journalists including Peter Tompkins and Luciano Garibaldi; however, the theory has been dismissed by many.\n\nIn 1994 Bruno Lonati, a former partisan leader, published a book in which he claimed that he had shot Mussolini and he was accompanied on his mission by a British army officer called \"John\", who shot Petacci. Journalist Peter Tompkins claimed to have established that \"John\" was Robert Maccarrone, a British SOE agent who had Sicilian ancestry. According to Lonati, he and \"John\" went to the De Maria farmhouse in the morning of 28 April and killed Mussolini and Petacci at about 11:00a.m. In 2004, the Italian state television channel, RAI, broadcast a documentary, co-produced by Tompkins, in which the theory was put forward. Lonati was interviewed for the documentary and claimed that when he arrived at the farmhouse:\nPetacci was sitting on the bed and Mussolini was standing. \"John\" took me outside and told me his orders were to eliminate them both, because Petacci knew many things. I said I could not shoot Petacci, so John said he would shoot her himself, while making it quite clear that Mussolini however, had to be killed by an Italian.\n\nThey took them out of the house and, at the corner of a nearby lane they were stood against a fence and shot. The documentary included an interview with Dorina Mazzola who said that her mother had seen the shooting. She also said that she herself had heard the shots and that she \"looked at the clock, it was almost 11\". The documentary went on to claim that the later shootings at the Villa Belmonte were subsequently staged as part of the \"cover up\".\n\nThe theory has been criticised for lacking any serious evidence, particularly on the existence of the correspondence with Churchill. Commenting on the RAI television documentary in 2004, Christopher Woods, researcher for the official history of the SOE, dismissed these claims saying that \"it's just love of conspiracy-making\".\nSome, including most persistently the fascist journalist Giorgio Pisanò, have claimed that Mussolini and Petacci were shot earlier in the day near the De Maria farmhouse and that the execution at Giulino de Mezzegra was staged with corpses. The first to put this forward was Franco Bandini in 1978.\n\nOther theories have been published, included allegations that not only Luigi Longo, subsequently leader of the Communist Party in post-war Italy, but also Sandro Pertini, a future President of Italy, carried out the shootings. Others have claimed that Mussolini (or Mussolini and Petacci together) committed suicide with cyanide capsules.\n\n"}
{"id": "28235498", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28235498", "title": "Djamel Laroussi", "text": "Djamel Laroussi\n\nDjamel Laroussi is an Algerian singer, composer, songwriter, arranger and guitar player.\n\nLaroussi was born in Algeria, moved to Cologne, Germany, to attend Cologne Academy of Music.\n\nLaroussi sings in Algerian Arabic, French and Kabyle Berber.Djamel Laroussi was the first person from Africa to be admitted to the prestigious Music University of Cologne.He has graduated the school with honours as he was the first of his class, in composition and jazz arrangements, guitar and drums. He had been engaged in self-education before he was accepted to the University. Djamel is \nleft-handed and plays the guitar upside down without reversing the strings. Being famous in Algeria Djamel has been the Algerian representative for UNICEF since 2009. In cooperation with the Cultural Minister of Algeria he has set up an annual International Jazz-Festival in Algeria.\nStevie Wonder’s Band hired him as a member for the European tour In June and July of 2010. During his сreative career he has benn playing with many Jazz musicians such as Graham Haynes, Steve Williamson, Nelson Veras, Keith Copeland, Chico Freeman. His music is a mixture of Western sound from Jazz and rock which is melt in his Arabic-Kabylian genes.He has never belonged to only one music sream.\n\n\"Live albums\"'\n"}
{"id": "41659797", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41659797", "title": "Early life of Vladimir Lenin", "text": "Early life of Vladimir Lenin\n\nLenin's father, Ilya Nikolayevich Ulyanov, was the fourth child of impoverished tailor Nikolai Vassilievich Ulyanov (born a serf father); and a far younger woman named Anna Alexeevna Smirnova, who lived in Astrakhan. Ilya was of partly Kalmyk descent.\n\nThe couple, now nobility, had two children, Anna (born 1864) and Alexander (born 1866) before the birth of their third child, Vladimir \"Volodya\" Ilyich (), on 22 April 1870, baptised in St. Nicholas Cathedral several days later. They would be followed by three more children, Olga (born 1871), Dmitry (born 1874) and Maria (born 1878). Another brother, Nikolai, had died several days after birth in 1873. Ilya was a devout member of the Russian Orthodox Church and baptised his children into it, although Maria – a Lutheran – was largely indifferent to Christianity, a view that influenced her children. Both parents were monarchists and liberal conservatives, being committed to the Emancipation reform of 1861 introduced by the reformist Tsar Alexander II; they avoided political radicals and there is no evidence that the police ever put them under surveillance for subversive thought. The claim that Ilya exerted a revolutionary influence on his children is considered a myth. According to Lenin's sister Anna, he was a \"religious man\", a great admirer of the reforms of Tsar Alexander II of the 1860s, and \"that he saw it as his job to protect the youth from radicalism.\"\n\nEvery summer they left their home in Moscow Street, Simbirsk and holidayed at a rural manor in Kokushkino, shared with Maria's Veretennikov cousins. Among his siblings, Vladimir was closest to his sister Olya, whom he bossed around, having an extremely competitive nature; he could be destructive, but usually admitted misbehaviour. A keen sportsman, he spent much of his free time outdoors or playing chess, but his father insisted that he devote his life to study, leading him to excel at school, the Simbirsk Classical Gimnazia, a disciplinarian and conservative institution. By his teenage years, Vladimir was coaching his elder sister in Latin and gave private tuition to a Chuvash student. Vladimir was also fond of the Blank estate, a place he spent a lot of time at in his youth; in his youth he was proud to describe himself as the son of a squire; and he once signed himself as \"Hereditary Nobleman Vladimir Ulyanov\" before the police. This noble background was noticed by many, among them the writer Maxim Gorky, and is said to have greatly influenced his personality.\n\nIlya Ulyanov died of a brain haemorrhage on 12 January 1886, when Vladimir was 16 years old. Vladimir's behaviour became erratic and confrontational, and shortly thereafter he renounced his belief in God. At the time, Vladimir's elder brother Aleksandr \"Sacha\" Ulyanov was studying biology at Saint Petersburg University, in 1885 having been awarded a gold medal for his dissertation, after which he was elected onto the university's Scientific-Literary Society. Involved in political agitation against the absolute monarchy of reactionary Tsar Alexander III which governed the Russian Empire, he studied the writings of banned leftists like Dmitry Pisarev, Nikolay Dobrolyubov, Nikolay Chernyshevsky and Karl Marx. Organising protests against the government, he joined a socialist revolutionary cell bent on assassinating the Tsar and was selected to construct a bomb. Before the attack commenced, the conspirators were arrested and tried. On 25 April 1887, Sacha was sentenced to death by hanging, and executed on 8 May. Despite the emotional trauma brought on by his father and brother's deaths, Vladimir continued studying, leaving school with a gold medal for his exceptional performance, and decided to study law at Kazan University. Lenin's headmaster at the gymnasium was Fedor Kerensky, the father of what would later become his arch-rival in 1917, Alexander. During his last year at the gymnasium in 1887, Kerensky wrote a report on Vladimir, describing him as a \"model student, never 'giving cause for dissatisfaction, by word or by deed, to the school authorities'\". Kerensky put this down to his moral upbringing, writing that \"religion and discipline were the basis of his upbringing, the fruits of which are apparent in Ul'ianov's behavior\". At this point there were many indications that he would create an established career in the Tsarist bureaucracy, following in the footsteps of his father.\n\nEntering the Judicial Faculty of Kazan University in August 1887, Vladimir and his mother moved into a flat, renting out their Simbirsk family home. Becoming interested in his late brother's radical ideas, he began meeting with a revolutionary cell run by the militant agrarian socialist Lazar Bogoraz, associating with leftists intent on reviving the People's Freedom Party (\"Narodnaya Volya\"). Joining the university's illegal Samara-Simbirsk \"zemlyachestvo\", he was elected as its representative for the university's \"zemlyachestvo\" council. On 4 December he took part in a demonstration demanding the abolition of the 1884 statute and the re-legalisation of student societies, but along with 100 other protesters was arrested by police. Accused of being a ringleader, the university expelled him and the Ministry of Internal Affairs placed him under police surveillance, exiling him to his Kokushkino estate. Here, he read voraciously, becoming enamoured with Chernyshevsky's novel \"What is to be Done?\" (1863). Disliking his radicalism, in September 1888 his mother persuading him to write to the Ministry of the Interior asking them to allow him to study at a foreign university; they refused his request, but allowed his return to Kazan, where he settled on the Pervaya Gora with his mother and brother Dmitry.\n\nIn Kazan, he contacted M.P. Chetvergova, joining her secret revolutionary circle, through which he discovered Karl Marx's \"Capital\" (1867); exerting a strong influence on him, he became increasingly interested in Marxism. Wary of his political views, his mother purchased an estate in the village of Alakaevka, Samara Oblast – made famous in the work of poet Gleb Uspensky, of whom Lenin was a great fan – in the hope that Vladimir would turn his attention to agriculture. Here, he studied peasant life and the poverty they faced, but remained unpopular as locals stole his farm equipment and livestock, causing his mother to sell the farm.\nIn September 1889, the Ulyanovs moved to Samara for the winter. Here, Vladimir contacted exiled dissidents and joined Alexei Sklyarenko's discussion circle. Both Vladimir and Sklyarenko adopted Marxism, with Vladimir translating Marx and Friedrich Engels' political pamphlet, \"The Communist Manifesto\" (1848), into Russian. He began to read the works of the Russian Marxist Georgi Plekhanov, a founder of the Black Repartition movement, concurring with Plekhanov's argument that Russia was moving from feudalism to capitalism. Becoming increasingly sceptical of the effectiveness of militant attacks and assassinations, he argued against such tactics in a December 1889 debate with M.V. Sabunaev, an advocate of the People's Freedom Party. Despite disagreeing on tactics, he made friends among the Party, in particular with Apollon Shukht, who asked Vladimir to be his daughter's godfather in 1893.\n\nIn May 1890, Mariya convinced the authorities to allow Vladimir to undertake his exams externally at a university of his choice. Choosing the University of Saint Petersburg and obtaining the equivalent of a first-class degree with honours, celebrations were marred when his sister Olga died of typhoid. In 1891, during the famine, he sued the peasant neighbours of his family's estate for causing damage to it; he also drew most of his income from rents and interest derived from the sale of the estate of his mother, despite later condemning \"gentry capitalism\". Vladimir remained in Samara for several years, in January 1892 being employed as a legal assistant for a regional court, before gaining a job with a local lawyer. Embroiled primarily in disputes between peasants and artisans, he devoted much time to radical politics, remaining active in Sklyarenko's group and formulating ideas about Marxism's applicability to Russia. Inspired by Plekhanov's work, Vladimir collected data on Russian society, using it to support a Marxist interpretation of societal development and increasingly rejecting the claims of the People's Freedom Party. In the spring of 1893, Lenin wrote a paper, \"New Economic Developments in Peasant Life\"; submitted to the liberal journal \"Russian Thought\", it was rejected and only published in 1927. In the autumn of 1893, Lenin wrote another article, \"On the So-Called Market Question\", a critique of Russian economist German Krasin (1871-1947).\n"}
{"id": "59085018", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=59085018", "title": "Frances Byron, Baroness Byron", "text": "Frances Byron, Baroness Byron\n\nFrances, Baroness Byron (later Hay; ; c.1702 – 1759), was one of the five daughters of William Berkeley, 4th Baron Berkeley of Stratton (died 1740/1), and his wife, the former Frances Temple (died 1707). She was the third wife of William Byron, 4th Baron Byron and a great-grandmother of the poet Lord Byron.\n\nLady Byron was one of 21 women of influence who signed Thomas Coram's petition of 1729, which led to the foundation of the Foundling Hospital. She is also known for sitting for the eighteenth-century artist William Hogarth (1697–1764), whose painting has been exhibited at the Foundling Museum, near Brunswick Square in London, as part of their \"Ladies of Quality\" exhibition.\n\nFrances's exact birth date is not known, but is estimated at 1702. On 3 December 1720, the Hon. Frances Berkeley married William Byron, 4th Baron Byron (1669–1736), as his third wife. Her father, Lord Berkeley, is known for having written, on 1 November 1720, \"I am going to dispose of one of my daughters to Lord Byron, a disproportionate match as to their ages, but marriages not offering every day, I would not miss this opportunity...though attended by never so many inconveniences\".\n\nDespite little being known about Frances Berkeley's early years, she is identified in John Faber's graving of 1736, before the death of her first husband, Lord Byron. Historians have suggested that she married young because her father's letter refers to \"a disproportionate match to their ages\"; thus it is inferred that Lord Byron was a much older man; he is thought to have been at least thirty years older than Frances. During this marriage, Frances had six children, until Lord Byron's death on 8 August 1736. It was \"through her second son John [that Frances was] the great-grandmother of Lord Byron, the poet\".\n\nFour years after her first husband's death, Frances remarried, to Sir Thomas Hay, Bt. (c.1698 – 1769), of Alderston, as his second wife, in 1740. There were no children from this marriage, and Frances predeceased Sir Thomas.\n\nIn 1735, Thomas Coram presented his first petition to King George II, aiming to facilitate the building of a Foundling Hospital. Frances, among 21 women of influence, signed this petition. Frances personally signed on 14 April 1730. The support of these women was one of innovative thought and vision, that not only triggered a catalyst for the further two petitions in 1737, that was ultimately successful. A Royal Charter was finally granted in 1739, calling upon 375 male signatories, yet excluding the ladies who were the facilitators of this success.\n\nFrances is thought to have been influenced by her friend, Anne Newport, Baroness Torrington, who signed the petition on the same day. Frances' participation led to the involvement of her son, William Byron, 5th Baron Byron (1722–1798), in the Foundling Hospital in October 1739, who is listed, alongside Hogarth, as a prominent governor. However it is considered that William's role of authority was unsympathetic to the cause, as he is notoriously represented as \"the 'wicked Lord', [who] encumbered the estate, sold off much property and the family pictures in the 1770s\".\n\nAlthough details around the commission for William Hogarth's portrait of Lady Byron remain unclear, Lord Byron is thought to have subscribed to Hogarth's \"\". Historians can also decipher that the portrait was produced six years after Frances signed Coram's petition for the Foundling Museum. Interestingly, at the same time Hogarth is painting Frances, two further petitions are being organised for presentation, which ultimately receives Royal Charter in 1739.\n\nAs noted in \"William Hogarth: A Complete Catalogue of Paintings,\" Frances is \"shown walking in a park, looking at the viewer with pale grey-blue eyes, pulling on a glove with her left hand\". Another feature of the portrait is the depiction of her \"black and tan terrier\" with an emphasised grey muzzle that is considered to allude to her elderly husband.\n"}
{"id": "12889449", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12889449", "title": "Francisco García Calderón", "text": "Francisco García Calderón\n\nFrancisco García Calderón Landa (April 2, 1834 – September 21, 1905) was a lawyer and Provisional President of the Republic of Peru for a short seven-month period in 1881, during the War of the Pacific. García Calderón was a key figure in the final peace accords between Peru and Chile. Later in post-presidential career, in 1892, he was commissioned to arbitrate land disputes between Peru and Ecuador, which centered on the contested provinces of Mainas, Jaén and Tumbes. He was an academic as well, having authored a comprehensive history of the previously-mentioned contested provinces, as well as a monograph on Peruvian legislation titled, \"Diccionario de la Legislación Peruana\".\n\nFrancisco García Calderón was born in Arequipa on April 2, 1834, as the son of Judge Doctor Eduardo García Calderón y Crespo and Ventura Landa y Guerola. He studied at the Colegio de la Independencia () where he later worked as professor of Philosophy and Mathematics.\n\nWith his \"Diccionario de la Legislación Peruana\" () he established his name as an eminent lawyer. In 1868 he was in function as Finance minister for a short period of time.\n\n"}
{"id": "19690715", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19690715", "title": "Franciszek and Magdalena Banasiewicz", "text": "Franciszek and Magdalena Banasiewicz\n\nThe family of Franciszek and Magdalena Banasiewicz with sons: Jerzy, Tadeusz, Antoni, and daughter Maria lived on a farm in Orzechowce near Przemyśl during the Nazi German occupation of Poland in World War II. In July 1991 they were bestowed the titles of Righteous among the Nations by Yad Vashem for rescuing fifteen Jews escaping the Holocaust from the ghetto in Przemyśl.\n\nFranciszek Banasiewicz (2 April 1884 – 5 February 1954) was a decorative painter before the war. His wife Magdalena née Lenar (7 July 1884 – 28 September 1957) was a homemaker. Two Banasiewicz sons, Antoni and Tadeusz, were sent by the Nazi Germans to forced labour in the Third Reich when the war broke out. Tadeusz escaped and after returning home lived in hiding in barns and in the fields. His father, Franciszek, organised many heroic rescue missions with his aid.\n\nInitially, Franciszek Banasiewicz was approached by Salomon Ehrenfreud, who escaped the ghetto massacre of June 1942 having witnessed the death of his wife and children. He was hiding at the home of Jan Kościak a bit earlier. Tadeusz—already staying out of sight—took it upon himself to hide along with Salomon around the farm. Meanwhile, Franciszek started taking in other Jews including Salomon's brother, Izaak—previously helped by other Poles—his cousin Jakub Nassan and their friends Marcel Teich and Junek Frenkiel. Helped by his own son, Franciszek brought from the ghetto Nassan's wife, Eugenia and her friend Fejga Weidenbaum. A week later he rescued Edmund Orner.\n\nBanasiewicz family and the fugitives began constructing a bunker under the house in the fall of 1943 in preparation for the cold Polish winter. The new hiding area enabled Banasiewiczs to rescue more people. In October 1943, on request of Salomon Ehrenfreud, Tadeusz smuggled out from the ghetto Bunia Stamhofer and Fela Szattner, then in January 1944, he rescued Samuel Reinharz with his brother Beniamin and their mother Bertha. He attempted to rescue Jozef Weindling, however, Jozef's brother, a ghetto policeman, arrested Tadeusz at that time, and passed him over to the Nazis. The German commander released him nonetheless, bribed by Samuel Reinharz, who then escaped with Tadeusz and Jozef back to the farm where all fifteen Jews were hiding.\nMaria Banasiewicz recalls how shocked though undeterred they were to learn that, in the nearby village of Tarnawce, farmer Kurpiel who sheltered 27 Jews in a bunker similar to theirs was discovered in May 1944. All fugitives were murdered. Kurpiel with his wife and family was executed in Lipowica. Several months earlier, a similar fate met Banasiewiczs liaison with the Ghetto, Michał Kruk. He was executed on 6 September 1943, during the first public execution in Przemyśl, along with several other people punished by death for the assistance they had rendered to the Jews. \n\nIn Przemyśl: 15,210 Jews lost their lives during the Holocaust, including 568 non-Jewish Poles killed because they were attempting to save them. Only 675 Jews remained, among them 415 Jews saved directly in the town including 60 children. — Leszek M. Włodek \nIn May 1944 German gendarmes came to recapture one of the Banasiewicz sons. They surrounded the house, but were unsuccessful. The bunker was not discovered either. The Red Army retook the town from German forces on July 27, 1944. All family members and Jewish escapees survived. In 1988 (or, on July 17, 1991, sources vary) the Banasiewicz family including Franciszek, Magdalena, Maria, Tadeusz and Jerzy were given the titles of Righteous among the Nations for their heroic stance against the Nazi German Holocaust.\n\n"}
{"id": "16074795", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16074795", "title": "Frederic Richard Sullivan", "text": "Frederic Richard Sullivan\n\nFrederic Richard \"Dickie\" Sullivan (sometimes credited as \"Frederick\"; 18 July 1872 – 24 July 1937), was an English-born American film director and actor of the silent era. He directed 34 films between 1913 and 1923. He also appeared in 29 films between 1913 and 1935. He also acted on stage. He was a nephew of the composer Arthur Sullivan.\n\nSullivan was born in Pimlico in London, England, the son of Fred Sullivan and Charlotte Louisa Lacy (1841–1885). His uncle was composer Arthur Sullivan. He had seven brothers and sisters: Amy Sophie (1863–1947), Florence Louise (1865–1891), Edith Mary (1866–1877), Herbert \"Bertie\" Thomas (1868–1928), Maud \"Cissie\" Helen (1870–1940), George Arthur (1874–1919) and William Lacy (1877–1902). Sullivan's father died in 1877, leaving his pregnant mother with seven children under the age of 14. After his father's death, Sullivan's uncle Arthur visited the family often and became guardian to all of the children. In 1881, Charlotte married Captain Benjamin Hutchinson, a man 13 years her junior.\n\nIn December 1883, at the urging of Charlotte's brother, William Lacy, the family emigrated to Los Angeles, California, in the United States, except for Sullivan's eldest brother, Bertie, who stayed with their uncle Arthur in London. Charlotte died in January 1885, barely a year after the move to the U.S. Sullivan's stepfather, Hutchinson, unable to cope with this loss and his responsibilities, soon returned to England, leaving the six surviving children (Edith had died) to be brought up mostly by their uncle William, with the financial support of their uncle Arthur. In 1885, the family went on a sightseeing trip of the American West with their visiting uncle Arthur, who continued to support the family until his death in 1900 and in his will.\n\nSullivan directed at least 34 films, during the silent era, between 1913 and 1923. He also acted in at least 29 films between 1913 and 1935, including the Marx Brothers film \"Duck Soup\", and he appeared on stage, including in several Broadway shows, from 1905 to 1931.\n\nSullivan married Kate Webb in 1902, and the couple had two daughters, Helen Mary (1906–1966) and Sheila (born 1919). Kate died in 1921, and Sullivan died in Los Angeles, California at the age of 65.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "8725620", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8725620", "title": "Gerasimus of Kefalonia", "text": "Gerasimus of Kefalonia\n\nVenerable Saint Gerasimos of Kefalonia (Greek: Άγιος Γεράσιμος) is the patron saint of the island of Kefalonia in Greece.\n\nGerasimos (1506–1579) came from the aristocratic and wealthy Notaras family. He was ordained a Monk at Mount Athos, went to Jerusalem for 12 years, spent some time in Crete and Zakynthos and in 1555 arrived on Kefalonia. He spent his first 5 years in a cave in the area known as Lassi. He subsequently cultivated the area where the monastery of Saint Gerasimos now exists near Valsamata. The monastery which he established cared for the poor and became a center for charity.\n\nSaint Gerasimos is believed by natives of Kefalonia to protect them and to also heal them of illness. Many natives of the island name their children after Saint Gerasimos as a tribute to the saint who protects them.\n\nThe body of Saint Gerasimos is at the monastery, made available for veneration as it has never decomposed. After his death, his body was buried twice and exhumed intact, thus leading the church to ordain him as a saint. Kefalonians throughout the world still revere and pray to him.\n\nIn 1953, immediately after a powerful earthquake on the island of Kefalonia destroyed 90% of the island, there were many claimed sightings of Saint Gerasimos throughout the island who is believed to have comforted and tended to the injured trapped inside homes and buildings.\n\nDuring the feasts of Saint Gerasimos – August 16th and 20 October (\"translation of relics\") – his body is passed over ill and sick persons for the purpose of healing them. His body is also displayed by the church during liturgy at the monastery on many occasions.\n\nA church named after Saint Gerasimos was established in New York City by Kefalonians who emigrated to New York in the early 20th century.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "21317947", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21317947", "title": "Harold A. Fidler", "text": "Harold A. Fidler\n\nHarold Alvin Fidler (August 2, 1910 – April 2, 2004) was the Associate Director of the Lawrence Radiation Laboratory from 1958 to 1974. During World War II he served as the Manhattan Project's California Area Engineer, where he worked with Ernest O. Lawrence's Berkeley Radiation Laboratory, which was developing calutrons for electromagnetic isotope separation. As such, he was responsible for the administration of contracts between the Army and the University of California.\n\nHarold Alvin Fidler was born in Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, on August 2, 1910. He studied civil engineering, earning a Bachelor of Science degree from Drexel Institute of Technology in 1932. He then went to Massachusetts Institute of Technology (MIT), from which he earned a Master of Science in civil engineering in 1934, writing his thesis on \"A precise determination of stresses in bridges due to wind loads\", and a Doctor of Science in civil engineering in 1940, writing his thesis on \"Investigation of stress-strain relationships of granular soils by a new cylindrical compression apparatus\". While he was at MIT, he joined the Reserve Officers' Training Corps (ROTC). He also met Lillian E. Saari. They were married in 1939, and had three children, Marjorie, Donald and Richard.\n\nAfter his graduation from MIT, he became Engineer-in-charge of the Foundation Investigation Section at the United States Army Corps of Engineers in Ithaca, New York. In this capacity, he worked as a civilian, but in 1942, with the United States at war during World War II, was called to active duty as a first lieutenant in the Corps of Engineers. He was one of the first officers assigned to the Manhattan District. He was posted to California, where Ernest O. Lawrence was developing an electromagnetic isotope separation process using devices known as calutrons at the Berkeley Radiation Laboratory. Major Thomas T. Crenshaw, Jr., became California Area Engineer in August 1942, with Fidler as his assistant. Crenshaw established his office in the Donner Laboratory at the University of California.\n\nCrenshaw soon left, and Fidler replaced him as California Area Engineer. The Army formally took over the contracts with the University of California from the Office of Scientific Research and Development (OSRD) on May 1, 1943, and it became Fidler's task to administer them. He worked closely with Kenneth Priestly, the Radiation Laboratory's business manager, and Robert M. Underbill, the secretary and treasurer of the University Board of Regents. Fidler worked to expedite the procurement and delivery of materials, particularly those that were scarce and in short supply. For security reasons, he wore civilian clothes rather than a uniform. Among his duties was to keep the University's President, Robert Gordon Sproul informed of the physical needs of the Manhattan Project.\n\nFidler also submitted regular reports on the activity of the Radiation Laboratory to the director of the Manhattan Project, Brigadier General Leslie R. Groves, Jr., and briefed him, on his visits to Berkeley, which were made about once a month between October 1942 and November 1943. As part of his role in coordinating the electromagnetic process, Fidler occasionally visited Chicago, which was more convenient for contractors like Westinghouse, General Electric, and Allis Chalmers; Boston, where the offices of Stone & Webster, the main engineering contractor were located; and the production facilities at the Clinton Engineer Works in Oak Ridge, Tennessee. He attained the rank of major. After World War II ended in August 1945, Fidler was transferred to Tennessee, where he worked on the declassification of Manhattan Project documents. He was awarded the Legion of Merit for his work on the Manhattan Project, which was presented by Groves at a ceremony at Lawrence's home on October 21, 1945.\n\nFidler left the Army, but continued to work on declassification in Washington, D.C., for the Atomic Energy Commission, which replaced the Manhattan Project on January 1, 1947. In 1949, he returned to Berkeley as the Atomic Energy Commission's Area Manager on the West Coast. In this capacity he was responsible for research activities on the West Coast, and was involved in the selection of the site for the Lawrence Livermore Laboratory, the Atomic Energy Commission's second weapons laboratory.\n\nOn December 1, 1958, at the request of Ernest Lawrence, Fidler joined the Lawrence Berkeley Laboratory as Associate Director. He remained in the role until 1974, when he and the director, Edwin McMillan, both retired. He also served on the Atomic Energy Commission's Management Advisory Committee from 1962 to 1972. He died at his Piedmont Gardens Retirement Community home in Oakland, California, on April 2, 2004. He was survived by his three children, his wife having predeceased him in 1991.\n"}
{"id": "10474860", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10474860", "title": "Harry Pelling Gill", "text": "Harry Pelling Gill\n\nHarry Pelling Gill (9 March 1855 – 25 May 1916), generally referred to as H. P. Gill, was an English-born Australian art curator, teacher and painter.\n\nGill was born at Brighton, Sussex, England, the son of Alfred Gill and his wife Frances Elizabeth, \"née\" Pelling. Gill studied at the Brighton School of Art, Hove and Sussex Grammar Schools and at South Kensington where he won a scholarship. In 1882 Gill was appointed master of the School of Design at Adelaide and held this position until 1909, when it was taken over by the Education Department and became the Adelaide School of Art, with Gill as Principal and Examiner.\nHe published \"The Straight and Crooked Paths of Studentship\" in 1894. He was appointed honorary curator of the Art Gallery of South Australia, and in 1899 visited Europe where, with the assistance of a committee, he spent £10,000 on works of art. He was also responsible for purchasing works of young Australian artists such as Tom Roberts, Hans Heysen and Frederick McCubbin. It was generally agreed that very good judgment had been shown in making these purchases.\nGill was a longtime member of the South Australian Society of Arts and its president from 1909 to 1911. He resigned from the School of Art on 1 July 1915 on account of ill health, and while on a voyage to England, for reasons of health, died in the Mediterranean between Marseilles and Gibraltar on 25 May 1916, and was buried at sea. Gill had a good reputation as a teacher and lecturer. Gill was an Associate of the Royal College of Art, London, and a Freemason. An oil and three of his water-colours are in the Art Gallery of South Australia. He was survived by his wife and two sons.\n\nHarry Pelling Gill married Annie Waring Wright on 29 April 1886. They had two sons:\n"}
{"id": "203963", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=203963", "title": "Hephaestion", "text": "Hephaestion\n\nHephaestion ( \"Hephaistíon\"; c. 356 BC – 324 BC), son of Amyntor, was an ancient Macedonian nobleman and a general in the army of Alexander the Great. He was \"by far the dearest of all the king's friends; he had been brought up with Alexander and shared all his secrets.\" This relationship lasted throughout their lives, and was compared, by others as well as themselves, to that of Achilles and Patroclus.\n\nHis military career was distinguished. A member of Alexander the Great’s personal bodyguard, he went on to command the Companion cavalry and was entrusted with many other tasks throughout Alexander's ten-year campaign in Asia, including diplomatic missions, the bridging of major rivers, sieges and the foundation of new settlements. Besides being a soldier, engineer and diplomat he corresponded with the philosophers Aristotle and Xenocrates and actively supported Alexander in his attempts to integrate the Greeks and Persians. Alexander formally made him his second-in-command when he appointed him Chiliarch of the empire. Alexander also made him part of the royal family when he gave him as his bride Drypetis, sister to his own second wife Stateira, both daughters of Darius III of Persia. When he died suddenly at Ecbatana around age thirty-two, Alexander was overwhelmed with grief. He petitioned the oracle at Siwa to grant Hephaestion divine status and thus Hephaestion was honoured as a \"Divine Hero\". Hephaestion was cremated and his ashes taken to Babylon. At the time of his own death a mere eight months later, Alexander was still planning lasting monuments to Hephaestion's memory.\n\nHephaestion’s exact age is not known. No concise biography has ever been written about him, likely stemming from the fact that he died before Alexander and none of those among Alexander's companions who survived him would have had a need to promote someone other than themselves. Many scholars cite Hephaestion’s age as being similar to Alexander’s so it is fair to assume that he was born about 356 BC. He is said to have become a page in 343 BC, a role common to adolescent boys of the aristocratic class in Macedon. As a member of the court, he may have met Alexander around this time.\n\nThe only surviving anecdote from Hephaestion’s youth comes courtesy of the Alexander Romance. According to this tale, \"one day when Alexander was 15 years old ... sailing with Hephaestion, his friend, he easily reached Pisa ... and he went off to stroll with Hephaestion.\" That Alexander’s exact age is given provides another clue to Hephaestion's upbringing because at fifteen Alexander and his companions were at Mieza studying under Aristotle. Hephaestion has never been named among those who attended the lectures at Mieza, but his close friendship with Alexander at that age suggests strongly that he was numbered among them. More telling is Hephaestion's name being found in a catalogue of Aristotle's correspondences. The letters themselves no longer exist, but for them to have found their way into an official catalogue, their content must have been of some significance. It implies that Hephaestion received a good education and shows that Aristotle was impressed enough by his pupil to send letters throughout Alexander's expanding empire to converse with him.\n\nA few years after the lectures at Mieza, Hephaestion's presence was notably absent when several of Alexander's close friends were exiled as a result of the Pixodarus affair. Among those exiled by Philip II after Alexander's failed attempt to offer himself as groom to the Carian princess were Ptolemy, Nearchus, Harpalus, Erigyius and Laomedon. The reason for Hephaestion's absence from this list could be the fact that all of the exiled men were older friends of Alexander, Erigyius himself roughly 24 years older than the prince. Hephaestion was a contemporary of Alexander and it is likely that his influence might have been seen as less of a threat than these more mature companions. Whatever Hephaestion's opinion had been on the whole affair, like many of Alexander's other childhood companions he was not exiled in its aftermath.\n\nWhile it is true that very little detail of Hephaestion's childhood and education can be found, that which remains gives credence to what is known about his later life. His friendship with Alexander was long-lasting, as was his tenure in the court at Pella; he even shared the same education as the future Great King of Greece and Asia. With such a promising start, age and experience would have helped mould Hephaestion Amyntoros into the man who would one day be the second most powerful man in Alexander's empire, second only to the king himself.\n\nSharing Alexander's upbringing, Hephaestion would have learned to fight and to ride well from an early age. His first taste of military action was probably the campaign against the Thracians while Alexander was regent, followed by Philip II's Danube campaign (342 BC) and the battle of Chaeronea (338 BC) while he was still in his teens. His name is not mentioned in lists of high-ranking officers during the early battles of Alexander's Danube campaign (335 BC) or the invasion of Persia. Nor are the names of Alexander's other close friends and contemporaries listed, suggesting that their promotions, when they achieved them, were earned by merit.\n\nHephaestion's career was never solely a military one. Right from the start he was also engaged in special missions, sometimes diplomatic, sometimes technical. The first mention of his career in the sources is a diplomatic mission of some importance. After the battle of Issus (333 BC) when Alexander was proceeding south down the Phoenician coast and had received the capitulation of Sidon, Hephaestion was \"authorised to appoint to the throne the Sidonian he considered most deserving of that high office\". Hephaestion took local advice and chose a man distantly related to the royal family, but whose honesty had reduced him to working as a gardener. The man, Abdalonymus, had a successful royal career, fully justifying Hephaestion's choice.\n\nAfter the siege of Tyre (332 BC) Alexander entrusted his fleet to Hephaestion, who had orders to skirt the coast and head for Gaza, their next objective, while Alexander himself led the army overland. Hephaestion's task was not an easy one for this was not the Athenian fleet with which Alexander had started and had earlier disbanded, but a motley collection of semi-reluctant allies of many nationalities who would need holding together with patience and strength. Furthermore, on arrival at Gaza the cargo of siege engines had to be unloaded, transported across difficult terrain and reassembled.\n\nPlutarch, while writing about Alexander's correspondence, reveals an occasion when Hephaestion was away on business and Alexander wrote to him. The subject matter suggests that this took place while they were in Egypt. What business Hephaestion was attending to we do not know, but Andrew Chugg has suggested that it was concerned either with his command of the fleet or Athenian diplomacy. He quotes sources which suggest that Hephaestion had been approached by Aristion of Athens to effect a reconciliation between Alexander and Demosthenes and, certainly, Athens' inaction during the revolt of the Spartan king Agis would seem to support this idea. As Chugg says, \"If he did persuade Alexander to reach an accommodation with Demosthenes at this critical juncture, as would seem likely from the circumstances, then he was significantly responsible for saving the situation for Macedon in Greece by preventing the revolt of Agis spreading to Athens and her allies.\"\n\nIt is likely, though not certain, that it was Hephaestion who led the advance army from Egypt to bridge the Euphrates river. Darius of Persia sent Mazaeus to hold the opposite bank while the bridging work was in progress. This Mazaeus was the commander who threw away what looked like certain victory on the Persian right at the battle of Gaugamela (331 BC) and later became Alexander's governor of Babylon. Robin Lane Fox has suggested that a conversation with Hephaestion may have won Mazaeus over: \"It is conceivable that the battle of Gaugamela was partly won on the banks of the Euphrates and that Mazaeus' reinstatement was less a sign of magnanimity than of a prearranged reward.\"\n\nIt is at Gaugamela that mention is first made of Hephaestion's rank. He is called the \"commander of the bodyguards (somatophylakes)\". This is not the Royal Squadron, whose duties also included guarding the king in battle and which was at that time commanded by Cleitus—a man of the older generation—but a small group of close companions specifically designated to fight alongside the king. Hephaestion was certainly in the thick of things with Alexander for Arrian tells us he was wounded and Curtius specifically mentions that it was a spear wound in the arm.\n\nAfter Gaugamela there is the first indication that Alexander intended reconciliation with the Persians and that Hephaestion supported him in this unpopular policy. One evening in Babylon Alexander noticed a high-born woman obliged to dance as part of the entertainment. Curtius explains:\n\"The following day, he (Alexander) instructed Hephaestion to have all the prisoners brought to the royal quarters and there he verified the lineage of each of them.\"\nAlexander had realized that people from noble families were being treated with little dignity and wanted to do something about it. That he chose Hephaestion to help him shows that he could rely on Hephaestion's tact and sympathy. Yet Alexander could also rely on Hephaestion for firmness and resolve. When his policies had led to a plot against his life, the possible involvement of a senior officer, Philotas, caused much concern. It was Hephaestion, along with Craterus and Coenus, who insisted on, and actually carried out, the customary torture.\n\nAfter the execution of Philotas (330 BC), Hephaestion was appointed joint commander—with Cleitus—of the Companion cavalry, Philotas' former position. This dual appointment was a way of satisfying two divergent shades of opinion now hardening throughout the army: one, like Hephaestion, broadly supportive of Alexander's policy of integration, and the other, that of Philip's older veterans in particular, whose implacable resentment of Persian ways was well represented by Cleitus. The cavalry prospered under this command, showing itself equal to learning new tactics necessary against Scythian nomads and to counter-insurgency measures such as those deployed in the spring of 328 BC. The army set out from Balkh in five columns to spread through the valleys between the Oxus and Tanais rivers to pacify Sogdiana. Hephaestion commanded one of the columns and, after arriving at Marakanda, he set out again to establish settlements in the region.\n\nIn spring 327 BC the army headed into India and Alexander divided his forces. He led his section north into the Swat Valley, while Hephaestion and Perdiccas took a sizeable contingent through the Khyber Pass. Hephaestion's orders were to \"take over either by force or agreement all places on their march and upon reaching the Indus to make suitable preparations for crossing\". They were in unknown territory, whose political and geographical landscapes were unfamiliar, and Hephaestion would have had to make decisions on the spot and act accordingly. He reached the Indus with the land behind him conquered, including the successful siege of Peuceolatis, which took thirty days, and proceeded to organize the construction of boats for the crossing.\n\nAlexander often had to divide his forces and command was given to a variety of senior officers on different occasions. For example, a few weeks before this mission of Hephaestion's, Craterus had been sent with a large force to subdue the last two remaining Bactrian rebels. It seems that Hephaestion was chosen when the objectives were far from clear-cut, and Alexander needed a commander on whom he could rely to do what he would have done himself without needing instructions.\n\nHephaestion took part in a notable cavalry charge at the battle of the Hydaspes river (326 BC). Then when the army began its homeward journey he was again entrusted with half the army, including the elite troops and two hundred elephants, as they travelled south-west along the banks of the Hydaspes. Some of the army, including Alexander himself, travelled in boats which had been provided by the sponsorship of leading courtiers. Arrian lists Hephaestion first among these \"honorary trierarchs\", indicating his leading position at this time. On entering hostile territory Alexander split his forces into three. Hephaestion's section marched \"five days in advance, with the object of intercepting and capturing any native troops which ... might be rapidly moving forward\". Again, Hephaestion was called upon when initiative was required. After Alexander had taken a detour to subdue a hostile tribe, in which he was seriously injured, Hephaestion took command of the greater part of the army as they travelled down the Indus to the sea. At the coast he organized the construction of a fortress and a harbour for the fleet at Pattala.\n\nHephaestion was in command at Pattala while Alexander advanced. When he rejoined Alexander at Rhambacia he established a city there also. Hephaestion crossed the Gedrosian desert with Alexander, sharing the torments of that journey and, when the army was safely back in Susa, he was decorated for bravery. He was to take part in no further fighting; he had only months to live. But, having ended his military career as Alexander's de facto second-in-command, he was also his second in the political sphere. Alexander had made that official by naming him Chiliarch. Photius mentions Perdiccas being appointed \"to command the chiliarchy which Hephaestion had originally held\".\n\nLittle is known of Hephaestion's personal relationships beyond his close friendship with Alexander. Alexander was an outgoing, charismatic man who had many friends but his dearest and closest friend and confidant was Hephaestion. Theirs was a friendship which had been forged in boyhood. It endured through adolescence, through Alexander's becoming king, and through the hardships of campaigning and the flatteries of court life and their marriages. Apart from Diogenes of Sinope's alleged letter quoted below, heavily hinting at Alexander's yielding to Hephaestion's thighs, ancient sources do not generally mention that Hephaestion and Alexander may have been lovers, as some modern scholars have theorized. Overall direct evidence is non-existent and, at least according to Thomas R. Martin, this was a practice which was uncommon by majority Greek standards of their time.\n\nTheir tutor Aristotle described friendship as \"one soul abiding in two bodies\". That they themselves considered their friendship to be of such a kind is shown by the stories of the morning after the battle of Issus. Diodorus, Arrian and Curtius all describe the scene when Alexander and Hephaestion went together to visit the captured Persian royal family. Its senior member, the queen Sisygambis, knelt to Hephaestion to plead for their lives, having mistaken him for Alexander because he was taller, and both young men were wearing similar clothes. When she realized her mistake she was acutely embarrassed, but Alexander pardoned her, saying \"You were not mistaken, Mother; this man too is Alexander.\" Their love for each other was no secret, as is borne out by their own words. Hephaestion, when replying to a letter to Alexander's mother, Olympias, said \"you know that Alexander means more to us than anything\". Arrian says that Alexander, after Hephaestion's death, described him as \"the friend I valued as my own life\". Paul Cartledge describes their closeness when he says: \"Alexander seems actually to have referred to Hephaestion as his alter ego.\"\n\nTheir friendship was also a working partnership; in all that Alexander undertook, Hephaestion was at his side. They worked well together; it is possible to discern a pattern, when studying Hephaestion's career, of Alexander's constant trust in, and increasing reliance on, Hephaestion. By the time of the advance into India, after the deaths of senior generals from the older generation, there had been worrying instances among senior officers of their own generation of treachery, a lack of sympathy with Alexander's aims of further integration of Persians into the army, and of sheer incompetence. Time after time, when Alexander needed to divide his forces he entrusted half to Hephaestion, knowing that in him he had a man of unquestionable loyalty who understood and sympathized with his aims and, above all, who got the job done.\n\nHephaestion played a full part in Alexander's regular consultations with senior officers, but he was the one to whom Alexander would also talk in private, sharing his thoughts, hopes and plans. Curtius states that Hephaestion was the sharer of all his secrets; and Plutarch describes an occasion when Alexander had a controversial change to impose and implies that Hephaestion was the one with whom Alexander discussed it and who arranged for the change to be implemented. According to the painting done by Aetion of Alexander's first wedding, Hephaestion was his torch bearer (best man), showing by this not only his friendship, but also his support for Alexander's policies as Alexander's choice of an Asian bride had not been a popular one.\nBy the time they returned to Persia Hephaestion was officially, by title, Alexander's second-in-command, as he had long been in practice, and also his brother-in-law. Hammond sums up their public relationship well: \"It is not surprising that Alexander was as closely attached to Hephaestion as Achilles was to Patroclus\", and \"At the time of his death Hephaestion held the highest single command, that of the Companion Cavalry; and had been repeatedly second in command to Alexander in the hierarchy of the Asian court, holding the title of Chiliarch, which had been held by Nabarzanes under Darius. Thus Alexander honoured Hephaestion both as the closest of his friends and the most distinguished of his Field Marshals.\"\n\nIt has been suggested by some modern scholars that as well as being close friends Alexander and Hephaestion were also lovers despite the fact that hardly any of Alexander's extant ancient Greek or Roman biographers ever refers to Hephaestion as anything but Alexander's friend, consistent with Hephaestion's epithet \"Philalexandros\" which was given to him by Alexander himself. The ancient sources generally name Hephaestion only as a good and loyal friend of Alexander's.\n\nHowever, Arrian describes the occasion when Alexander and Hephaestion publicly identified themselves with close friends Achilles and Patroclus. It happened right at the beginning of the campaign in Asia when Alexander led a contingent of the army to visit Troy, scene of the events in his beloved \"Iliad\". He laid a wreath on the tomb of Achilles and Hephaestion laid a wreath on the tomb of Patroclus and they ran a race, naked, to honour their dead heroes. Arrian discreetly draws no conclusions from this, but, according to Thomas R. Martin, by no means does the identification of Alexander and Hephaestion with Achilles and Patroclus equate to their being homosexuals as Homer, author of the \"Iliad\", never suggested that Achilles and his close friend Patroclus were homosexual or that they had sexual relations. Martin further suggests this concept was theorized by unspecified \"later authors\", who include however such eminent writers as Aeschylus and Plato that had lived before Alexander and Hephaestion's time. Thus, according to Robin Lane Fox quite different conclusions can be drawn:\n\"It was a remarkable tribute, uniquely paid, and it is also Hephaestion's first mention in Alexander's career. Already the two were intimate, Patroclus and Achilles even to those around them; the comparison would remain to the end of their days and is proof of their life as lovers, for by Alexander's time, Achilles and Patroclus were agreed to have enjoyed the relationship which Homer himself had never directly mentioned.\"\n\nHephaestion and Alexander grew up in a time where, according to Thomas R. Martin, homosexual affairs were seen as abnormal by majority Greek standards of their time. But Andrew Chugg, Robin Lane Fox and others show different views. According to Eva Cantarella, for instance, male bisexuality was widely permitted and ruled by law, and generally not frowned upon by the public to the extent to which it remained within the preset limits. The Greeks used to approach the relationships between men in a very different way from how they will be dealt with today (with exceptions of course). For the Greeks \"homosexuality was not an exclusive choice. Loving another man was not an option out of the norm, different, somehow deviant. It was just a part of life experience; it was the show of an either sentimental or sexual drive that, over a lifetime, alternated and was associated (sometimes at the very same time) with love for a woman\". The pattern that same-sex love affairs followed, however, was not the same in every city-state. Some Roman and later writers, taking the Athenian pattern as their example, have tended to assume either that Alexander and Hephaestion had a sexual relationship which belonged to their adolescence, after which they left it behind, or that one of them was older, the \"lover\" (\"erastes\") and the other was the \"beloved\" (\"eromenos\") despite there being scarcely any direct evidence that Alexander and Hephaestion had a sexual relationship at all.\n\nThe former assumption has persisted to the present day, with writers of fiction such as Mary Renault and the film director Oliver Stone among its proponents, as well as modern historians such as Paul Cartledge, who says: \"Rumour had it—and rumour was for once surely correct—that he [Hephaestion] and Alexander \"had once been\" more than just good friends.\" Aelian takes the latter view when he uses just such an expression when describing the visit to Troy: \"Alexander laid a garland on Achilles' tomb and Hephaestion on Patroclus', indicating that he was Alexander's \"eromenos\", as Patroclus was of Achilles.\"\n\nHowever, what was the case in Athens was not necessarily the case in Macedon. As Robin Lane Fox says, \"descendants of the Dorians were considered and even expected to be openly homosexual, especially among their ruling class, and the Macedonian kings had long insisted on their pure Dorian ancestry\". This was no fashionable affectation; this was something that belonged at the heart of what it was to be Dorian, and therefore Macedonian, and had more in common with the Theban Sacred Band than with Athens. In light of this, it is not surprising that there are many indications that their sexual relationship was indeed lifelong. Lucian, writing in his book \"On Slips of the Tongue\", describes an occasion when Hephaestion's conversation one morning implied that he had been in Alexander's tent all night, and Plutarch describes the intimacy between them when he tells how Hephaestion was in the habit of reading Alexander's letters with him, and of a time when he showed that the contents of a letter were to be kept secret by touching his ring to Hephaestion's lips. Diogenes of Sinope, in a letter written to Alexander when he was a grown man, accuses Alexander of being \"ruled by Hephaestion's thighs\".\n\nNo other circumstance shows better the nature and length of their relationship than Alexander's overwhelming grief at Hephaestion's death. As Andrew Chugg says, \"it is surely incredible that Alexander's reaction to Hephaestion's death could indicate anything other than the closest relationship imaginable\". The many and varied ways, both spontaneous and planned, by which Alexander poured out his grief are detailed below. In the context of the nature of their relationship however, one stands out as remarkable. Arrian says that Alexander \"flung himself on the body of his friend and lay there nearly all day long in tears, and refused to be parted from him until he was dragged away by force by his Companions\".\n\nSuch an all-encompassing love often leaves little room for other affections. Hephaestion was the best friend of Alexander, his king and his commanding officer, so it is not surprising that we only hear of several other close friendships or attachments in his life. There is no evidence, however, that he was anything but popular and well liked among the group of Alexander's close friends and Companions who had grown up together, and worked well together for so many years. It is possible that he was closest to Perdiccas, because it was with Perdiccas that he went on the mission to take Peuceolatis and bridge the Indus. By that time, as Alexander's effective second-in-command, he could doubtless have chosen any officer he cared to name. They accomplished everything they set out to do with great success, which indicates that the two of them worked well together, and that Hephaestion found the irrepressible Perdiccas a congenial companion. It is notable that their two cavalry regiments in particular were selected by Alexander for the dangerous crossing of the river Hydaspes before the battle with the Indian king, Porus. On that occasion superb teamwork would have been of paramount importance.\n\nIt would be wrong to imply that Hephaestion was universally liked or admired however. Outside the close-knit coterie of the Macedonian high command he had his enemies. This is clear from Arrian's comment about Alexander's grief: \"All writers have agreed that it was great, but personal prejudice, for or against both Hephaestion and Alexander himself, has coloured the accounts of how he expressed it.\"\n\nYet given the factions and jealousies that arise in any court and that Hephaestion was supremely close to the greatest monarch the western world had yet seen, it is remarkable how little enmity he inspired. Arrian mentions a quarrel with Alexander's secretary Eumenes but, because of a missing page in the text, the greater part of the detail is missing, leaving only the conclusion that something persuaded Hephaestion, though against his will, to make up the quarrel. However, Plutarch, who wrote about Eumenes in his series of \"Parallel Lives\", mentions that it was about lodgings and a flute-player, so perhaps this was an instance of some deeper antagonism breaking out into a quarrel over a triviality. What that antagonism might have been, it is not possible to know, but someone with the closeness to the king of a secretary might well have felt some jealousy for Hephaestion's even greater closeness.\n\nIn only one instance is Hephaestion known to have quarrelled with a fellow officer and that was with Craterus. In this instance it is easier to see that resentment might have been felt on both sides, for Craterus was one of those officers who vehemently disliked Alexander's policy of integrating Greek and Persian, whereas Hephaestion was very much in favour. Plutarch tells the story: \"For this reason a feeling of hostility grew and festered between the two and they often came into open conflict. Once on the expedition to India they actually drew their swords and came to blows ...\" Alexander, who also valued Craterus highly as a most competent officer, was forced to intervene and had stern words for both. It is a measure of how high feelings were running over this contentious issue that such a thing should have happened and also an indication of how closely Hephaestion identified Alexander's wishes with his own.\nHephaestion gave perhaps the ultimate proof of this in the summer of 324 BC, when he accepted as his wife Drypetis, daughter of Darius and sister to Alexander's own second wife Stateira. Of his short married life nothing is known, except that at the time of Alexander's own death, eight months after Hephaestion's, Drypetis was still mourning the husband to whom she had been married for only four months.\n\nFor Alexander to marry a daughter of Darius made good political sense, allying himself firmly with the Persian ruling class, but for Hephaestion to marry her sister shows the high esteem in which Alexander held him, bringing him into the royal family itself. They became brothers-in-law, and yet there was more to it than that. Alexander, says Arrian \"wanted to be uncle to Hephaestion's children\". Thus it is possible to imagine Alexander and Hephaestion hoping that their respective offspring might unite their lines and that, ultimately, the crown of Macedon and Persia might be worn by one who was a descendant of them both.\n\nIn spring 324 BC Hephaestion left Susa, where he had been married, and accompanied Alexander and the rest of the army as they travelled towards Ecbatana. They arrived in the autumn and it was there, during games and festivals, that Hephaestion fell ill with a fever. Arrian says that after the fever had run for seven days, Alexander had to be summoned from the games to Hephaestion, who was seriously ill. He did not arrive in time; by the time he got there, Hephaestion was dead. Plutarch says that being a young man and a soldier, Hephaestion had ignored medical advice and as soon as his doctor, Glaucias, had gone off to the theatre, he ate a large breakfast consisting of a boiled fowl and a cooler of wine, and then fell sick and died.\n\nPiecing the accounts together, it seems as if Hephaestion's fever had run its course for seven days, after which time he was sufficiently recovered for his doctor, and Alexander himself, to feel it was safe to leave him, and for Hephaestion to feel hungry. His meal, however, seems to have caused a relapse that led to his rapid death. Precisely why this should have happened is not known. As Mary Renault says, \"This sudden crisis in a young, convalescent man is hard to account for.\" The explanation that fits most of the facts is that the fever was typhoid and that solid food perforated the ulcerated intestine that the typhoid would have caused. This would have led to internal bleeding, though it would be unusual in that case for death to follow quite as swiftly as it seems to have done here. For that reason, it is not possible altogether to discount other possible explanations, one of them being poison.\n\nFollowing Hephaestion's death his body was cremated and the ashes were taken to Babylon. The general Eumenes suggested that divine honors be given to Hephaestion, this was later done.\n\nHephaestion's death is dealt with at greater length by the ancient sources than any of the events of his life, because of its profound effect upon Alexander. Plutarch says that \"Alexander's grief was uncontrollable\" and adds that he ordered many signs of mourning, notably that the manes and tails of all horses should be shorn, the demolition of the battlements of the neighbouring cities and the banning of flutes and every other kind of music. Arrian relates an account that \"he flung himself on the body of his friend and lay there nearly all day long in tears, and refused to be parted from him until he was dragged away by force by his Companions\", another that said \"he lay stretched upon the corpse all day and the whole night too\", and another which told how he had the doctor, Glaucias, executed for his lack of care. Arrian also mentions Alexander ordering the shrine of Asclepios in Ecbatana to be razed to the ground, and that he cut his hair short in mourning, this last a poignant reminder of Achilles' last gift to Patroclus on his funeral pyre: \"he laid the lock of hair in the hands of his beloved companion, and the whole company was moved to tears\".\n\nAnother hint that Alexander looked to Achilles to help him to express his grief may be found in the campaign, shortly following these events, against a tribe called the Cossaeans. Plutarch says they were massacred as an offering to the spirit of Hephaestion and it is quite possible to imagine that to Alexander this might have followed in spirit Achilles' killing of \"twelve high-born youths\" beside Patroclus' funeral pyre.\n\nArrian states that all his sources agree that \"for two whole days after Hephaestion's death Alexander tasted no food and paid no attention in any way to his bodily needs but lay on his bed now crying lamentably, now in the silence of grief\". Alexander ordered a period of mourning throughout the empire. Arrian tells us that \"Many of the Companions, out of respect for Alexander, dedicated themselves and their arms to the dead man\". The army, too, remembered him; Alexander did not appoint anyone to take Hephaestion's place as commander of the Companion cavalry; he \"wished Hephaestion's name to be preserved always in connection with it, so Hephaestion's Regiment it continued to be called, and Hephaestion's image continued to be carried before it\".\n\nAlexander sent messengers to the oracle at Siwa to ask if Amon would permit Hephaestion to be worshipped as a god. When the reply came saying he might be worshipped not as a god, but as a divine hero, Alexander was pleased and \"from that day forward saw that his friend was honoured with a hero's rites\". He saw to it that shrines were erected to Hephaestion's memory, and evidence that the cult took hold can be found in a simple votary plaque now in Archaeological Museum of Thessaloniki, inscribed, \"To the Hero Hephaestion\".\n\nHephaestion was given a magnificent funeral. Its cost is variously given in the sources as 10,000 talents or 12,000 talents. It is difficult to give a modern equivalent for such a huge amount but we know that in Hephaestion’s time, the daily wage of a skilled worker was two or three drachmas. In western Europe, 2008, that would be between £50 and £100, so the lowest possible value for 1 drachma in modern terms is £25. We know there were 6,000 drachmas in a talent, so even at the most conservative estimate, Hephaestion's funeral would have cost £1,500,000,000. Alexander himself drove the funeral carriage part of the way back to Babylon with some of the driving entrusted to Hephaestion's friend Perdiccas. At Babylon funeral games were held in Hephaestion's honour. The contests ranged from literature to athletics and 3,000 competitors took part, the festival eclipsing anything that had gone before both in cost and in numbers taking part. Plutarch says that Alexander planned to spend ten thousand talents on the funeral and the tomb. He employed Stasicrates, \"as this artist was famous for his innovations, which combined an exceptional degree of magnificence, audacity and ostentation\", to design the pyre for Hephaestion.\n\nThe pyre was sixty metres high, square in shape and built in stepped levels. The first level was decorated with two hundred and forty ships with golden prows, each of these adorned with armed figures with red banners filling the spaces between. On the second level were torches with snakes at the base, golden wreaths in the middle and at the top, flames surmounted by eagles. The third level showed a hunting scene, and the fourth a battle of centaurs, all done in gold. On the fifth level, also in gold, were lions and bulls, and on the sixth the arms of Macedon and Persia. The seventh and final level bore sculptures of sirens, hollowed out to conceal a choir who would sing a lament. It is possible that the pyre was not burnt, but that it was actually intended as a tomb or lasting memorial; if so, it is likely that it was never completed, as there are references to expensive, uncompleted projects at the time of Alexander's own death.\n\nOne final tribute remained, and it is compelling in its simplicity and in what it reveals about the high esteem in which Hephaestion was held by Alexander. On the day of the funeral, he gave orders that the sacred flame in the temple should be extinguished. Normally, this was only done on the death of the Great King himself.\n\nBased on a monogram found in the Amphipolis Tomb, the lead archaeologist, Katerina Peristeri, claims that the whole tumulus was a funerary monument for Hephaestion, built between 325–300 BC.\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "49299170", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49299170", "title": "Homafaran allegiance", "text": "Homafaran allegiance\n\nHomafaran allegiance () is a historical photo that was captured by Abdol-Hussein Partovi on 7 February 1979 in Alavi institute. The photo show Homafaran, officer rank in the previous Iranian Air Force, military salute to Ruhollah Khomeini (who can be seen in the distance). In the next day, this photo was published on the front page of the \"Kayhan\" daily.\n\nThe photo is important in two aspects, first for its publication in those days that was effective on Iranian revolution and the second that this is only registered images from this meeting. From the scene, there are about 7-8 frame. For avoiding detection Homafaran, the pictures was taken from behind.\n\nFrom 2000, the original version of this photo is available on Cultural-Art Institution of Tehran municipality.\n\nThen-Prime Minister Shapour Bakhtiar claimed that this photo is assembly and spurious. According to Air Force commander documents and Bakhtiar's speech, Army public relations denied the photo but Ruhollah Khomeini confirmed its authenticity. The photographer was also prosecuted. The Bakhtiar's government tried to identify the person who participated in the meeting but was not successful.\n\nIranian Air force commanders and personnel allegiance with Supreme leader, Ali Khamenei, every year on 8 February.\n\n"}
{"id": "1772254", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1772254", "title": "Ingri and Edgar Parin d'Aulaire", "text": "Ingri and Edgar Parin d'Aulaire\n\nIngri d'Aulaire (December 27, 1904 – October 24, 1980) and Edgar Parin d'Aulaire (September 30, 1898 – May 1, 1986) were American writers and illustrators of children's books who worked primarily as a team, completing almost all of their well-known works together. The couple immigrated to the United States and worked on books that focused on history such as \"Abraham Lincoln\", which won the 1940 Caldecott Award. They are part of the group of immigrant artists composed of Feodor Rojankovsky, Roger Duvoisin, Ludwig Bemelmans, Miska Petersham, and Tibor Gergely, who helped shape the Golden Age of picture books in mid-twentieth-century America. \n\nEdgar Parin, originally of Swiss citizenship, was born in Munich, Germany to an Italian portrait painter Gino Parin and Ella Auler, a talented artist and musician who had moved from St. Louis to Paris. His parents separated when Parin was six years old and he grew up spending time with each, travelling around Europe where his father was a prominent painter. Edgar Parin took his mother's maiden name when she changed it from \"Auler\" to \"d'Aulaire\". After studying architecture for a year in Munich, he began art studies at its School of Arts and Crafts (German:Kunstgewerbeschule). Edgar, a pupil of Hans Hofmann and Henri Matisse, studied fresco in Florence, painted murals in France and Norway, and exhibited in Paris, Berlin and Oslo. He illustrated many books in Germany from 1922 to 1926 and painted frescoes in Norway from 1926 to 1927.\n\nIngri and Edgar met in Munich when Ingri was an art student. They were married in 1925. A modest insurance settlement following a near-fatal bus–trolley collision in Paris provided the seed money for Edgar's steerage-class voyage to the U.S. to scout for opportunities. He garnered enough commissions illustrating books to send for Ingri and they moved into a cold-water walk-up flat in Brooklyn in 1929.\n\nAt first they pursued separate careers. Edgar concentrated on illustrating books using wood block engravings and stone lithography; Ingri garnered commissions to paint portraits of prominent businessmen.\n\nTheir work caught the eye of the director of the New York Public Library. Acting on her suggestion, the d'Aulaires decided to turn their talents to children's books and collaborated to create \"The Magic Rug\" in 1931. Shortly thereafter they became U.S. citizens. They lived and worked in Wilton, Connecticut, from 1941 until their deaths in the 1980s. They also had a farm in Royalton, Vermont.\n\nMany of the d'Aulaires' early books depict the scenery and folktales of Norway: \"Ola\", \"Children of the Northlights\", \"East of the Sun and West of the Moon\". Later their attention shifted to their adopted country and they produced books about American folk heroes such as Pocahontas, Benjamin Franklin, and Buffalo Bill.\n\nUsing their research and travel experiences as inspiration, the husband-and-wife team produced 27 illustrated books for children including many picture books. Edgar illustrated \"\" by Nora Burglon, who was a 1932 Newbery Medal runner-up for that work.\n\nThe d'Aulaires won the third annual Caldecott Medal in 1940 for \"Abraham Lincoln\", a picture-book life of the 16th U.S. President. They won the 1953 Boy's Club award for their version of \"Buffalo Bill\" (1952).\n\n\"Ingri and Edgar Parin d'Aulaires' Book of Greek Myths\", published by Doubleday in 1962, was an elaborately illustrated compendium of Greek mythology, 192 pages in 46 chapters.\n\nIn 1967 they published \"Norse Gods and Giants\", based on the \"Prose Edda\" and \"Poetic Edda\". The 154-page book presents 30 Norse myths and includes most of the basic stories of the Norse pantheon.\n\n\"D'Aulaires' Trolls\" was one of \"The New York Times Book Review\" outstanding books of 1972. It was also a National Book Award finalist. They completed a sequel in 1976, \"The Terrible Troll Bird\", an adaptation of one of their earlier works, \"Ola and Blakken\".\n\nSince 2006 the small California-based publishing company, Beautiful Feet Books, has republished several d'Aulaire titles including their biography series that feature historical characters significant to American history including Christopher Columbus, Pocahontas, George Washington, Abraham Lincoln, Leif Ericson, Buffalo Bill Cody, and Benjamin Franklin. This work by Beautiful Feet Books has been a key to a new generation of readers discovering the works of Ingri and Edgar Parin d'Aulaire and has recently been featured on websites such as Publishers Weekly and Atlas Obscura.\n\nIn 2005, New York Review Books reissued \"Norse Gods and Giants\" under the name \"d'Aulaires' Book Of Norse Myths\". This volume was carefully printed to reproduce the vibrant color and texture of the original lithographs, and includes a glowing foreword by Michael Chabon. Its immediate popularity prompted NYRB to reissue \"d'Aulaire's Trolls\" in 2006, which likewise was a meticulous reprint of the 1972 original pressing. That was followed by a reprint of \"The Terrible Troll Bird\".\n\n\"Animals Everywhere\" was reprinted and retitled \"d'Aulaires' Book of Animals\" in late April 2007, followed by a new edition of \"The Two Cars\", then by \"Too Big\" and \"Foxie\", a retelling of Anton Chekhov's short story \"Kashtanka\".\n\nIn 2007 and 2008 respectively, the Italian publisher, Donzelli Editori reissued smaller-format Italian language editions of Norse Myths retitled as \"Miti Del Nord\" and \"Trolls\" appearing as \"Il Libro Dei Troll\". Several of their books are also available in Korean and Japanese language editions.\n\nThe d'Aulaires received the Catholic Library Association Regina Medal for \"continued distinguished contribution to children's literature\" in 1970. They were the 1974 U.S. nominee for the biennial, international Hans Christian Andersen Award for children's illustrators.\n\nThe d'Aulaires and \"Abraham Lincoln\" won the Caldecott Medal from the American Library Association in 1940, recognizing the previous year's \"most distinguished American picture book for children\". \"Buffalo Bill\" (1952) won the 1953 Boy's Club award. \"d'Aulaires' Trolls\" (1972) was a finalist for the annual National Book Award, Children's Literature and a \"New York Times Book Review\" \"outstanding book\" for 1972.\n\n\n * Currently in print\n% Reissued by the University of Minnesota Press, 2012\n%% Reissued by the University of Minnesota Press, 2013\n\n\n"}
{"id": "14133584", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14133584", "title": "Irenarch of Rostov", "text": "Irenarch of Rostov\n\nSaint Irenarch or Irenarchus the Recluse of Rostov is honoured in the Russian Orthodox Church.\nIrenarchus, Hermit of Rostov, was born into a peasant family in the village of Kondakovo in the Rostov district of Russia. In Baptism he received the name Elias. In his thirtieth year, he was tonsured a monk at the Rostov St.s Boris and Gleb Monastery. There he began fervently to labor at monastic tasks, he attended church services, and by night he prayed and slept on the ground. Once, taking pity on a vagrant who did not have shoes, St Irenarchus gave him his own boots, and from that time he began to go barefoot through the snow.\nIrenarchus was a mystic and visionary. After his death many physical, psychological, and spiritual healings were attributed to the touching of his relics. He is commemorated 13 January in the Eastern Orthodox Church.\n\nIrenarchus was a companion of John the Hairy.\n\n"}
{"id": "24998703", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24998703", "title": "Jeremy Parzen", "text": "Jeremy Parzen\n\nJeremy Parzen (born 1967, Chicago, Illinois, United States) is an American wine writer and educator, blogger, food and wine historian, and musician who resides in Houston, Texas. He is author of the wine and lifestyle blog, Do Bianchi, and was a co-editor, together with Italian wine writer Franco Ziliani, of VinoWire, a blog devoted to news from the world of Italian wine.\n\nParzen received his doctorate in Italian literature and language at U.C.L.A. in 1997 (with a dissertation on Petrarchan prosody and Renaissance transcriptions of the \"Rerum vulgarium fragmenta\") and lived and worked for many years between Los Angeles and Italy as an instructor of Italian language and musician beginning in 1989, when he launched his academic career. In 1997, he moved to New York City, where he began to work as an editor at \"La Cucina Italiana\" and ultimately became its chief wine writer before leaving to pursue an independent career as a wine and food writer.\n\nFrom 2013 onward, he has worked as a freelance writer and marketing consultant in the wine industry. His byline has appeared in numerous publications, including \"Wine & Spirits\" and \"Decanter\", and he is the author of a number of university-press translations, including \"The Art of Cooking\" (University of California Press, 2005) by 15th-century chef Maestro Martino of Como and \"The History of Italian Cinema\" (Princeton, 2009), by Gian Piero Brunetta.\n\nParzen plays in the musical group Nous Non Plus under the stage name Cal d'Hommage. He is also credited as being a co writer of some of the band's material.\n\n"}
{"id": "47403170", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47403170", "title": "Josephine Herrick", "text": "Josephine Herrick\n\nJosephine Ursula Herrick (August 1, 1897 – March 27, 1972) was an American photographer, humanitarian, entrepreneur and teacher. \n\nDuring World War II, she pioneered the teaching of photography to wounded war veterans for the purpose of helping them heal their physical and emotional wounds and re-engage with the world. Building on that work, she founded and led arts-based charity the Josephine Herrick Project, that is based in New York City and still teaches photography to veterans, the disabled and other underserved populations. \n\nHerrick also served during World War II as a photographer on the United States’ Manhattan Project which developed the atomic bomb.\n\nProfessionally, Herrick was a successful commercial photographer, studio owner and photography instructor. As a fine art photographer, she won a number of awards and her work was exhibited in various publications and venues.\n\nHerrick was born in Cleveland, Ohio in 1897. Her father, Frank Herrick, was a graduate of Yale, a prominent attorney in Cleveland and a law professor. Her mother, Josephine Pomeroy Herrick, was an inventor and the holder of patents for several mechanical devices. \nAfter graduating from the Laurel School, Herrick worked as a Red Cross nurse in Cleveland during World War I. She attended Bryn Mawr College and graduated from Western Reserve University in 1920.\n\nHerrick’s paternal lineage can be traced back to one of the oldest families settled in Massachusetts that fought in the colonial army during the American Revolution. Her great-great-grandfather, Frances Herrick, commanded a regiment during the War of 1812 and was a large landowner and leading citizen of Lorain County, Ohio. Her grandfather, Gamaliel Herrick, served as President of the Cleveland Linseed Oil Company and a director in the East Cleveland Railroad Company. Her cousin, Myron T. Herrick, served as governor of Ohio and as U.S. ambassador to France during the early 20th century. \n\nHer maternal grandfather was Theodore M. Pomeroy, a businessman, lawyer and member of the U.S. House of Representatives from New York State during the American Civil War. Her first cousins included New York State Senator Robert Watson Pomeroy (1902–1989) and Janet Pomeroy Avery (1891–1969), who married John Foster Dulles (1888–1959), the U.S. Secretary of State during the Eisenhower Administration.\n\nAfter college, Herrick studied photography at the Clarence H. White School of Photography in New York City in the early 1920s. Clarence Hudson White was a self-taught photographer who greatly influenced the course of photography in the early 20th century as a teacher and mentor. A number of his students went on to prominent and influential careers of their own including Margaret Bourke-White, Paul Outerbridge, Dorothea Lange and Anton Bruehl. Herrick graduated from the Clarence White School in 1924. According to Bonnie Yochelson, an authority on Clarence White:\n\nBeginning in 1924 and continuing into the late 1930s, Herrick submitted photographs to the Cleveland Museum of Art’s May Show, an annual juried exhibition of the works of northeastern Ohio artists. She won several prizes including First Prize in 1927 for her photograph of an infant entitled \"Yes\".\n\nIn 1928, Herrick joined with Princess Miguel de Braganza to open a photography studio in New York City, specializing in portraits, landscapes and interiors. An exhibit of their portraits was presented in Newport, Rhode Island in 1934. The studio operated until 1941.\n\nAt the start of World War II, Herrick was a commercial and fine art photographer in New York City and her nephews were Cleveland schoolboys. Five years later, one of her nephew’s fighter jet had been shot down over Germany and he had been taken prisoner of war. Herrick herself had worked on the Manhattan Project that built the world’s first atomic bomb and had started an innovative project that taught photography to thousands of wounded veterans and to many others in need, as a form of rehabilitation and artistic affirmation.\n\nHerrick’s brother, Sherlock, and two of her nephews served overseas in the theaters of Africa and Europe during World War II. Her nephew Theodore Herrick flew as a B-17 navigator in a 1944 air attack on an I.G. Farben oil refinery, a heavily defended German strategic resource. His plane was shot down with five of the men on board killed and the other four, including Theodore Herrick, taken prisoner. Theodore survived and resumed his life after the war.\n\nIn her early support of the war effort, Herrick volunteered for the American Women’s Voluntary Services in 1941. As she later recalled: Those were the war years! There was a great desire to volunteer, to serve, to assist the war effort in any way one could. In 1941 I volunteered to A.W.V.S -- American Women’s Voluntary Services -- in the field of my own profession, education, training and experience -- photography. This led to my starting on September 16, 1941, to teach the first training course, then called \"Defense Photography\", for the Tenth Division of A.W.V.S Photography COULD play a very important role. Volunteers were vital - - but -- trained in a specific field, they could, naturally, perform the greatest service. We took the name \"War Service Photography\" and became the War Service Photography Division of A.W.V.S. Greater New York and National. Our membership grew quickly. We were drawn together through the common bond of photography and the desire to serve. \n\nDuring the first part of the war, Herrick and the War Service Photography (W.S.P.) division trained volunteer photographers and led the effort to use photographs to maintain the connection among families separated by the war. W.S.P. volunteers photographed servicemen in lunch canteens and U.S.O. facilities and printed the photographs. \"The boys send them home to their mothers, wives and girls with a letter of greeting from the A.W.V.S.\"\n\nAs the war continued, large number of wounded veterans returned to the U.S. and filled the veterans’ hospitals. In response, and impelled by converging advances in medicine, psychology and public policy, arts-based rehabilitation programs were established in the veterans’ hospitals. One leader in this area was Dr. Howard Rusk, a Missouri physician who enlisted in the Air Force early in the war. His efforts led to the creation in early 1944 of the U.S. Army Air Force Convalescent Training Center in Pawling, New York. Veterans were offered a wide variety of activities. Photographers from Herrick’s W.S.P. team taught photography at the Pawling center.\n\nIn recognition of the value of these programs, the Surgeon General of the United States Navy formalized and expanded the photography program for veterans in May 1944. The first two photography programs for Navy veterans opened at St. Albans Naval Hospital in Queens, New York and the Bethesda Naval Hospital in Maryland.\nHerrick led the programs for W.S.P. and took many photographs herself.\n\nWorld War II ended with the dropping of atomic bombs on Japan in August 1945. An August 25 article quoted Herrick as saying \"now it can be told.\" She and her W.S.P. colleague Mary Steers had worked on the development of the atomic bomb as a part of the Manhattan Project based in Oak Ridge, Tennessee.\n\nThe demand for photography programs for veterans surged after World War II ended. By the end of 1946, Herrick informed the Surgeon General of the War Department that photography programs had been provided in 19 different Army, Navy and Veterans hospitals. \nTechnical ingenuity extended the reach of the programs to the bedside of immobilized veterans. A woman contributor at Walter Reed Hospital in Washington imagined a compact and movable darkroom. She made some rough sketches and a volunteer architect drew up plans and blueprints. Then Herrick had the portable darkroom constructed in the prevocational shop at St. Albans Naval Hospital.\n\nIn 1946, Herrick and her fellow photographers incorporated as a peacetime charity named Volunteer Service Photographers.\nAn article published by Dr. Howard Rusk during that period acknowledged the contributions of the Volunteer Service Photographers organization and noted that \"the group, headed by Josephine U. Herrick, a noted photographer, is planning an ambitious expansion.\" He then quoted Herrick: \"Our five years’ experience during the war in military hospitals has demonstrated how photography can fill the need for a stimulating, even exciting, activity which relieves the monotony of hospital life. We are firmly convinced that it not only helps men get well, but gives them an enjoyable hobby they can continue when they leave the hospital. We hope it can be carried on in every military and veterans’ hospital in the country.\" \nLater in the decade, Herrick authored a book entitled Outline for Training Course in Hospital Rehabilitation Photography. \n\nIn the 1950s and 1960s, Herrick continued her work for VSP as it extended its reach into a wider range of settings including schools, inner city youth centers, senior citizen residences, substance abuse recovery centers and elsewhere. Her passion and commitment are apparent in a letter she wrote in 1959 about one of VSP’s disabled students who had won a prize in the organization's annual contest: \n\nHerrick also joined with Margaret Bourke-White to help publicize the good work of VSP through several appearances on popular radio shows of the day including WNBC, WCBS, WMCA and WRCA.\n\nIn the decades after the war, Herrick also devoted herself to her work as a photography teacher and artist. In addition to individual instruction, she taught photography courses at the New York Institute of Photography, the School of Modern Photography, New York University, Y.W.C.A. and the Germain School. She also taught courses and photographed for many summers at the Chautauqua Institute in upstate New York.\nDuring this period, her travel, landscape and portrait photographs were exhibited in New York City and at Chautauqua. An exhibition of her photographs was presented at the New York Public Library in 1959. The exhibition featured photographs from Chautauqua, from a recent trip to England, Scotland and Wales, from New York City landmarks and from the gardens of Florida.\n\nLittle is known about Herrick's personal life. She lived for many years on East 73rd Street in New York City. She never married and her obituary said she left no immediate survivors.\n\n"}
{"id": "49381220", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49381220", "title": "Juan Miller", "text": "Juan Miller\n\nJuan Miller (1788-1843) was a Scottish landowner, who introduced the cattle breed Shorthorn in Argentina.\n\nJuan Miller was born Elgin, in the north of Scotland, son of John Miller and Margaret Grenlan. He had arrived in 1809 to the Port of Buenos Aires. In 1812 Miller was married to María Dolores Balbastro, daughter of Eugenio José Balbastro and Ramona Albin. His daughter, Margarita Miller y Balbastro, was the wife of Francis Parish Morse, the son Woodbine Parish and Amelia Morse, belonging to a distinguished family of British diplomats.\n\nIn 1812, he obtained the title of Argentine citizen, delivered by the governing of the First Triumvirate.\n\nIn 1843 Juan Miller, died at his ranch \"La Caledonia\" located in the district of Cañuelas. In the estancia \"La Caledonia\" was signed the , between General Juan Lavalle and Juan Manuel de Rosas.\n"}
{"id": "13909528", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13909528", "title": "Kazhymukan Munaitpasov", "text": "Kazhymukan Munaitpasov\n\nQajymuqan Munaitpasuly (; , 7 April 1871 – 12 August 1948), also known as Hadjimukan Munaytpasov, was a Kazakh wrestler and repeated World Champion in Greco-Roman wrestling. \n\nQajymuqan Munaytpasuly was born in 1871, in Karaotkyel village in Akmola Province, Russian Empire. He was 194 cm tall and weighed 139 kg. He fought in 54 countries, won 48 medals. One of the most important moments in his career was in 1910, when he was awarded the gold medal in Buenos Aires and became World Champion for the first time. One of his famous victories was the defeat of Japanese jiu-jitsu master Harakiki Jindofu, who did not survive the fatal injury of the spine he received during the fight.\nSeveral times he was not allowed to be in the Russian National team due to the Russian Empire's discriminatory policy, therefore he participated in international competitions on behalf of Manchuria with the Japanese name Yamagata Makhanura. \n\nHe died on 12 August 1948 in \"Lyeninskoe znamya\" kolkhoz (South Kazakhstan Province), without any disciples and learners and leaving his four wives in Turkestan. In 1980 a museum was opened in his honor. There are also Qajymuqan's streets in Almaty, Astana and Semey. Two Russian films were based on his life's history: \"Haji-Mukan\" (1978) and \"Know ours!\" (1985; starring Bakhytjan Esjanov, Gyeorgiy Khachaturovich and Aleksandr Pankratov-Chorny).\n\n"}
{"id": "47904362", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47904362", "title": "Kinderdorf Pestalozzi", "text": "Kinderdorf Pestalozzi\n\nKinderdorf Pestalozzi, literally \"Pestalozzi Children’s Village\", was named after the Swiss education pioneer Johann Heinrich Pestalozzi. Established in 1945, Stiftung Kinderdorf Pestalozzi provides the \"Kinderdorf\" village for war-affected children from all over the world.\n\nIn August 1944 Walter Robert Corti, Marie Meienhofer and other enthusiasts launched in the monthly magazine \"Du\" to call for the foundation of a village for war-affected children. The association \"Vereinigung Kinderdorf Pestalozzi\" was founded in 1945, on 28 April 1946 the foundation stone was laid in the municipality of Trogen in the Canton of Appenzell Ausserrhoden. The locals were very positive about the project. With the assistance of voluntary helpers from all over Europe, 15 houses were built that served war orphans from the surrounding countries as a refuge. In the same year children from war-torn countries settled the first houses. In 1950 the association was transformed into a foundation. From 1960, in addition to European children, war orphans from Tibet lived at the orphanage, later mostly children from Korea, Tunisia, Ethiopia, Vietnam, Cambodia and Lebanon, since 1983 also orphans from Switzerland. The length of stay varies from a few weeks (educational or recreational reasons) up to several years. Since 1982 the foundation is also active in countries of the Southern Hemisphere, and since 1990 supervised children's homes in Romania. The fundraising is carried out mainly through fundraisers, sponsorships and legacies: In the 2000s the Foundation has invested CHF 18 million annually into the fields of integration, intercultural exchange and development cooperation. As of 2012, the projects of the foundation benefited 321,000 children and adolescents in Switzerland and abroad.\n\nIn 2005 the Trogen village consisted of twelve semi-detached houses for some 120 children and families as well as economy and administrative buildings. As of 2015, throughout the year also meet around 1,500 children and young people from Switzerland and abroad for a short time, inter alia with Swiss school classes. Worldwide, the foundation claims to support more than 400,000 children, young people and their teachers, parents and (educational) authorities in approximately 40 projects. The facilities also include a museum.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "43436781", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43436781", "title": "Kipng'eno Arap Ng'eny", "text": "Kipng'eno Arap Ng'eny\n\nKipng'eno Arap Ng'eny (1937 – July 1, 2014) was a Kenyan politician and telecommunications executive. He served as the Managing Director of the now defunct Kenya Posts and Telecommunications Corporation from 1979 until 1993. Ng'eny also served as a member of the Parliament of Kenya for Ainamoi from 1997 to 2002 and the country's Minister of Water Development within the administration of former President Daniel arap Moi.\n\nNg'eny died following a long illness at Aga Khan University Hospital in Nairobi on July 1, 2014, at the age of 77. His funeral was held at Consolata Shrine in the Westlands neighborhood on July 5, 2014. He chose cremation, rather than burial at his ancestral home, which is the norm for Kalenjin funeral rites. Other high-profile Kenyans who elected cremation include the late Wangari Maathai.\n"}
{"id": "54184641", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54184641", "title": "Mary Jane Kinnaird", "text": "Mary Jane Kinnaird\n\nMary Kinnaird or Mary Jane Kinnaid, Lady Kinnaird; Mary Jane Hoare (1816 – 1888) was an English philanthropist and co-founder of the Young Women's Christian Association. Kinnaird has at least one school and hospital in India named after her.\n\nKinnaird was born Mary Jane Hoare in 1816 at Blatherwick Park in Northamptonshire. Her parents William Henry and Louisa Elizabeth died in 1819 and 1816 respectively leaving her an orphan whilst still a child. She lived with her paternal grandfather until he died in 1828, when her elder brother became her legal guardian. Her day to day care was left to aunts and uncles and a governess. She was inspired by reading the evangelist William Romaine's works to bible study, daily prayers and evangelism. In 1837 she became her uncle's de facto secretary. He was the Honourable and Reverend Baptist Wriothesley Noel who was based at St John's Chapel in Bedford Row in London. She established her own projects and formed St John's Training School for Domestic Servants in 1841. Another pet project was to help fund a Calvin memorial hall in Geneva. She and the Reverend Noel wanted to encourage the spread of European Protestantism and she was visited several times by both the Swiss minister Jean-Henri Merle d'Aubigné and the French minister Frédéric Monod.\n\nHer work was empowered when she married Arthur Fitzgerald Kinnaird, who was the tenth Lord Kinnaird of Inchture and the second Baron Kinnaird of Rossie in 1843. They settled in London and every Wednesday they would invite discussion on philanthropic projects. She was shy and did not undertake public speaking, but she was the driving force. Her own personal project was to raise money by crowd-sourcing a book of prayers. The funds raised were for the Lock Hospital and Asylum, which she and her husband supported. Her husband was a strong supporter of women's suffrage, but she felt that this was not in keeping with her idea of a woman's role. She did not speak in public, but it is thought that she wrote her husband's speeches.\n\nKinnaird worked with Florence Nightingale to train nurses for the Crimean War. As part of this work, she created the North London Home where women could stay. The home had its own library. In the same year, as she gave birth to the youngest of her children, Emily.\n\nIn 1856 she and her five children went to live above the bank where her husband worked in Pall Mall East. This new home became another centre for good works. Her driving passion was India and she formed the Indian Female Normal School and Instruction Society, which created over sixty schools in India and it was said to visit over 1,300 zenanas. In about 1907 a school in Lahore changed its name to the Kinnaird Christian Girls' High School to recognise her contribution. The school went on to become Kinnaird College for Women University.\n\nKinnaird built on her work in establishing the North London Home to found the \"United Association for the Christian and Domestic Improvement of Young Women\", which by 1871 had four institutes and two homes. Wanting to expand this project in 1878, she decided to combine it with the Prayer Union, a Bible study group created by Emma Robarts. Robarts died, but the organisation went on to become the Young Women's Christian Association.\n\nKinnaird was also one of the founders of the Women's Emigration Society, which arranged for women to obtain good jobs and to travel to the colonies. The YWCA would help to support these emigrants.\n\nIn 1884 the YWCA was restructured – up to that point, London had almost a separate organisation, but there was now just one national YWCA organisation. Beneath this there was different presidents and staff for London, England and Wales, Scotland, Ireland, \"Foreign\", and Colonial and Missionary. This organisation was involved in distributing Christian texts and literature, but it also interviewed young women in an effort to improve living conditions. In 1884 they were working amongst Scottish fisherwomen, publishing their own magazine and operating a ladies' restaurant in London. This work was launched during talk of White Slavery, where women were said to kidnapped into prostitution. In 1886 the British government raised the age of consent from thirteen to sixteen.\n\nIn 1887, Kinneard was widowed, and her son Arthur became the 11th Lord Kinnaird. She died in 1888, survived by Arthur and Frederica Georgina (1845–1929), Louisa Elizabeth (1848–1926), Agneta Olivia (1850–1940), Gertrude Mary (1853–1931) and Emily Cecilia Kinnaird. Frederica and Agneta both married, but the three unmarried daughters, Louisa, Gertrude and Emily, continued their mother's good works. Louisa was active in London but both Gertrude and particularly Emily were missionaries.\n"}
{"id": "5557401", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5557401", "title": "Massoud Rajavi", "text": "Massoud Rajavi\n\nMassoud Rajavi (, born August 18, 1948 – disappeared March 13, 2003) is one of the two leaders of the People's Mujahedin of Iran (MEK), alongside his wife Maryam Rajavi. After leaving Iran in 1981, he resided in France and Iraq. He disappeared in the 2003 invasion of Iraq and it is not known whether he is alive or dead. Rajavi has been wanted by Iraq since 2010 for crimes against humanity.\n\nRajavi joined the MEK when he was 20 and a law student at the University of Tehran. He graduated with a degree in political law. Rajavi and the MEK actively opposed the Shah of Iran and participated in the 1979 Iranian Revolution.\n\nDuring the Pahlavi dynasty, Rajavi was arrested by SAVAK and sentenced to death. Due to efforts by his brother, Kazem Rajavi, and various Swiss lawyers and professors, his sentence was reduced to life imprisonment. He was released from prison during the Iranian Revolution in 1979. Upon his release, Rajavi assumed leadership of the People's Mujahedin of Iran.\n\nWhen Iran’s first presidential election took place in 1980, Rajavi nominated himself and his own People's Mujahedin of Iran. He was endorsed by the People's Fedai, the National Democratic Front, the Democratic Party of Kurdistan, Komala and the League of Iranian Socialists. He was disqualified in the elections by Ayatollah Khomeini on the grounds that 'those who did not endorse the Constitution of the Islamic Republic of Iran could not be trusted to abide by that constitution'.\n\nIn 1981, when Ayatollah Khomeini dismissed President Bani Sadr and a new wave of arrests and executions started in the country, Rajavi and Bani Sadr fled to Paris from Tehran's airbase. In 1986 Rajavi moved to Iraq and set up a base on the Iranian border. Rajavi was welcomed in Baghdad by Iraqi President Saddam Hussein.\n\nRajavi married fellow MEK member Ashraf Rabiei in summer 1980. Rabiei was widow of another MEK member killed in 1976, Ali-Akbar Nabavi-Nuri, whom she married in 1975. His second wife was Abolhassan Banisadr's daughter Firouzeh. Their marriage of state took place in October 1982 and the couple divorced in 1984. Rajavi married Maryam Qajar Azodanlu (later known as Maryam Rajavi) in 1985, who was already married to one of his close associates Mehdi Abrishamchi and divorced her husband in order to marry Rajavi.\n\nIn July 2010, the Supreme Iraqi Criminal Tribunal issued an arrest warrant for 39 MEK members, including Massoud Rajavi, for crimes against humanity committed while suppressing the 1991 uprisings in Iraq. The court prosecuted them in 2007, when the chief prosecutor declared that there is strong evidence for the case, including video tapes showing MEK leaders meeting with senior Iraqi Intelligence Service officials and receiving money to implement orders. Back in 2005, a Patriotic Union of Kurdistan official asked for arrest and trial of Rajavi based on his organization's documentary evidence of the involvement.\nFollowing the American invasion of Iraq, Massoud Rajavi disappeared. In his absence, Maryam Rajavi has assumed his responsibilities as leader of the MEK. In 2011 NCRI posted an article which described Rajavi as being \"in hiding\" but that has not been independently verified. On July 6, 2016, at a large gathering of MEK members in Paris, the former head of Saudi Arabia's intelligence agency, Turki bin Faisal Al Saud, referred to Rajavi as the \"late Massoud Rajavi\" twice in a speech.\n"}
{"id": "34540246", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34540246", "title": "Maurice Meisner", "text": "Maurice Meisner\n\nMaurice Jerome Meisner (November 17, 1931 – January 23, 2012) was an historian of 20th century China and professor at the University of Wisconsin–Madison. His study of the Chinese Revolution and the People's Republic was in conjunction with his strong interest in socialist ideology, Marxism, and Maoism in particular. He authored a number of books including \"Mao's China: A History of the People's Republic\" (and subsequent editions) which became a standard academic text in that area.\n\nMaurice Meisner was born in Detroit, Michigan in 1931 to Jewish immigrants from Eastern Europe. He had two marriages each lasting about 30 years, first to Lorraine Faxon Meisner and subsequently to Lynn Lubkeman. He had three children from the first marriage and one child from the second. He died at his home in Madison, Wisconsin in 2012.\n\nMeisner grew up in Detroit during the austere years of the Great Depression and World War II. But by the time he reached adulthood during the post-war boom, Detroit was a thriving center of culture as well as industry. He remained in Detroit, enrolling at Wayne State University. An outstanding student, Meisner was admitted to a graduate program there after only two years of college.\n\nHowever this was also the beginning of the Cold War and the Red Scare in the U.S., having serious repercussions on the personal lives of Maurice Meisner and his wife Lorraine. As part of the McCarthy era investigations, Lorraine was subpoenaed before the House Un-American Activities Committee (HUAC) in 1952 in relation to her attendance at the World Festival of Youth and Students held in East Berlin the previous year. Like most witnesses called before hearings of HUAC or the Senate Internal Security Subcommittee (SISS), Lorraine Meisner refused to testify to the body. Although this assertion of her Fifth Amendment rights had no direct legal consequences, David Henry, president of Wayne State University where she was also a student, saw fit to expel her from the university. Although seen as an unusually harsh move even at the time, other schools were reluctant to admit a student dismissed under such circumstances.\n\nThe Meisners moved to Chicago after they had been accepted to study at the University of Chicago, where they both would eventually receive doctorates. Maurice Meisner undertook to study Chinese history at a time when this would be considered an obscure choice, but where the emerging significance of China might be discerned in the wake of the 1949 revolution and role of China in the Korean War. This included studying the Chinese language to do research and travel in order to collaborate with the rather few China scholars of the time.\n\nMeisner's doctoral dissertation was prepared under the Sovietologist Leonard Haimson and developed in further year of research at the East Asian Research Center at Harvard. It was later published by Harvard University Press. In it, Meisner studied the original contributions to Chinese revolutionary theory by the co-founder of the Chinese Communist Party, Li Dazhao to show that the adaptation of Marxism to China which had been attributed to Mao Zedong had actually been accomplished by Li.\n\nMaurice Meisner was an early member of the Committee of Concerned Asian Scholars (CCAS). In addition to opposing American participation in the Vietnam War, the group also involved itself in demystifying China at a time in which \"Red China\" was regularly portrayed as a threat to America, arguably surpassing the Soviet Union as a target of anti-communist sentiment toward the end of the 1960s. Meisner wrote for their publication, the \"Bulletin of Concerned Asian Scholars\", and at the time of his death in 2012 he was still listed on the advisory board of the journal.\n\nBeginning with an article in the 1963 China Quarterly, he published articles in the leading journals in the field, including Asian Survey, Current History, Journal of Asian Studies, and Modern China, among others.\n\nMeisner earned M.A. and Ph.D. degrees at the University of Chicago and was awarded fellowships at Harvard University and the Center for Advanced Study in the Behavioral Sciences (Stanford, California). In 1968 he left his first faculty position at the University of Virginia to accept a professorship at the University of Wisconsin–Madison where he would remain for the rest of his career. He took sabbaticals at the Woodrow Wilson Center (1980) and at the London School of Economics (1999).\n\nIn 1968 the nation was in a state of apprehension and unrest given the continuing war in Vietnam and movements for the empowerment of minorities. This was the same year as the Tet Offensive which became widely viewed as a psychological turning point in the Vietnam war and American public opinion, the assassination of Martin Luther King and its aftermath, anti-war protests and police violence at the Democratic National Convention in Chicago, and election of Richard Nixon as president. Protest activity on and off the university campuses was reaching a crescendo and Madison happened to be one of the most affected campuses, bolstered by its large student body which in large part came from outside of Wisconsin. Highlights included\nmilitant protests against Dow Chemical which produced the napalm used in Vietnam, demonstrations and student strike demanding a Black Studies department at the university, a campus-wide strike by graduate assistants, the nationwide student strike following the 1970 U.S. invasion of Cambodia, and the 1970 bombing of the Army Math Research Center also in protest of the war. Radical politics was in the air, bringing to the fore radical organizations and ideologies ranging from anarchism to various Marxist currents.\n\nThus Maurice Meisner began teaching the history of the Chinese revolution not only at the very time when revolutionary politics was being widely explored and debated, but where the specifics of the Chinese revolution seemed very relevant to many radicalizing youth who were hardly enthralled by the nominally Marxist pro-Soviet Communist Party (which threw its electoral support to the Democratic Party). The Chinese Communist Party, in contrast, had denounced the Marxism of the Soviet Union as \"revisionist,\" and Maoist groups were prominent among the more militant factions involved in protest actions and ideological debate. Interest in Meisner's Chinese history course was greatly bolstered by this perception of an international revolutionary pole headquartered in China along with Meisner's sympathy with the socialist goals underlying the Chinese revolution. Thus the one-time niche field of Chinese history gave way to a wider politically motivated audience requiring a large lecture hall.\n\n1968 was during the Cultural Revolution in China, which received much fanfare among Western radicals but about which little was actually known. Many Maoists in the West found inspiration in the (perceived) role of the Red Guards, just as the English version of Mao's Red Book became widely toted as a revolutionary handbook. Competing Maoist groups in the U.S. (such as from the ) and the West attached themselves to the coattails of Mao Zedong and the cultural revolution, propelling interest in the recent history of China, the subject of Meisner's continuing research. As various absurdities and abuses committed during the Cultural Revolution became known, reactions of Maoist factions ranged from soul-searching to denial. Of obvious interest was Meisner's related research, although this was at a time when visiting the People's Republic was still impossible (as were visits by Chinese individuals to the West). Despite the difficulty in obtaining objective information, his study of the period made it into the classroom and would be incorporated into his 1977 work \"Mao's China: A History of the People's Republic.\"\n\nBy the late 1970s not only had the earlier wave of campus radicalism subsided, but definite changes were underway in China which were troubling, at best, to the remaining American Maoist currents and the so-called New Communist Movement which had emerged from the remnants of the New Left. Fascination with the cultural revolution had benefited from popular perceptions and slogans at a time when direct contact with Chinese communists was sparse, but in the years following Richard Nixon's China visit that began to change. With the death of Mao and the defeat of the Gang of Four, the political course of China was to rapidly change, whereas Western observers, both on the right and on the left, were often unable or unwilling to recognize the enormity of the transformation that had begun. This was just as Meisner's major work \"Mao's China\" was going to press, documenting the history and dynamics of the Chinese revolution up to that point.\n\nA subsequent edition of that book published in 1985 included additional chapters addressing the aftermath of the power struggle, but which still saw the market reforms instituted by Deng Xiaoping as a tactical turn in the development of socialism. Following some years of China's accelerating economic and political evolution, however, Meisner's assessment of the entire period became more sober as he traced the rise of what he termed \"bureaucratic capitalism,\" albeit under the official banner of building \"socialism with Chinese characteristics.\" Indeed, he saw the economic transformations underway as having set the stage for the democracy movement of 1989. The curious evolution of socialist China towards capitalism, all the while maintaining Communist Party rule, was the subject of Meisner's 1996 work \"The Deng Xiaoping Era: An Inquiry into the Fate of Chinese Socialism, 1978-1994\".\n\nMeisner was himself in Beijing in 1989 up until a week before the crackdown on the democracy movement. His analysis of the protest movement contradicted both the official characterization of it as a \"counterrevolutionary rebellion\" and the Western media's inclination to depict any movement for greater democracy as welcoming of capitalism. Rather than simple concerns for greater democracy, the movement was propelled by a disgust of privilege attained by powerful bureaucrats which was seen as official corruption, and in fact a result of the market reforms. Meisner writes:\n\nIt was not only students and young people involved in the tumultuous social/political struggles permeating the campus during the 1960s and 70s. The issues rocking the campus naturally created divisions among academics, and most particularly those in history and the other the social sciences where the sorts of issues being played out on the streets were the very subject of academic instruction. In this context one can easily appreciate that Maurice Meisner would have connected to like-minded colleagues in the history department, resulting in a personal friendship with Professor Harvey Goldberg whose study of social movements in modern Europe mirrored Meisner's similar study of contemporary China. Goldberg was very well known and became extremely popular among radical students who would pack his lecture hall as he delivered his memorable orations which often took less the form of history lectures than as passionate political statements.\n\nTheir friendship endured well past the heyday of campus activism, with them spending considerable time together as Goldberg's health suffered toward the late 1980s. Struck by the death of his friend in 1987, Meisner was instrumental in establishing the \"Harvey Goldberg Center for the Study of Contemporary History\" to honor and remember the beloved professor. In the spirit of Harvey Goldberg, the center would go on to sponsor quite a number of speakers, conferences and symposia especially around issues of social concern, connecting the study of history and society with activism as well as maintaining an archive of Goldberg's work. Maurice Meisner assumed the title of \"Harvey Goldberg Professor of History\" for the remainder of his university career.\n\nTowards the end of his life, in 2009, a conference was held in honor of Meisner's distinguished career entitled \"Reflections on History and Contemporary Change in China Before and After Tiananmen.\" The four-day conference, co-sponsored by the Harvey Goldberg Center, included a number of Meisner's former students, now themselves noted scholars of Chinese history. Following that conference three of Meisner's former students undertook to author and edit a book entitled \"Radicalism, Revolution, and Reform in Modern China: Essays in Honor of Maurice Meisner\". The authors presented Meisner with an early copy of the book honoring him in 2011, the year before he died.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2615574", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2615574", "title": "Names of Sun Yat-sen", "text": "Names of Sun Yat-sen\n\nLike many Chinese, Sun Yat-sen used different names at different points in his life and he is known in Chinese under several of them. Names are not taken lightly in Chinese culture. This reverence goes as far back as Confucius and his insistence on \"rectification of names.\"\n\nIn addition to the names and aliases listed below, Sun Yat-sen also used other aliases while he was a revolutionary in exile.\n\nThe \"real\" name of Sun Yat-sen, the name inscribed in the genealogical records of his family, is Sun Deming/Tak-ming (). This \"genealogical name\" () is what extended relatives of the Sun family would have known him by. This is a name that was used in formal occasions. The first Chinese character of the given name, \"dé\" (), is the generation character which he shared with his brother and his relatives on the same generation line. Traditionally, this name was not used in intercourse with people outside of the family, and inside China or Taiwan almost nobody knows that his real name was Sun Deming (although other historical figures such as Mao Zedong are known by their \"register name\"), and even many Chinese people wrongly assume that Deming was his courtesy name ().\n\nSun's original name () was Sun Wen ). This is also referred to as his big name (). Colloquially, the \"big name\" () is also known as the school name, whereas the \"milk name\" is known as the \"small name\" ().\n\nHis name Sun Wen is very well known among Chinese. After attaining public office, Sun consistently used this name - Sun Wen - to sign official documents.\n\nTraditionally, Chinese families would wait a certain number of years before officially naming their offspring. In the meantime, they used so-called \"milk names\" () which were given to the infant shortly after his birth, and which were known only by the close family.\n\nThus, his child name was Sun Dixiang/Sun Tai-tseung (). So this name Sun Dìxiàng is also referred to as his small name (小名). This name, however, was not the name that he received when he was born.\n\nSun's parents dedicated his name to the deity Xuan Wu Shangdi, so the first character of his milk name (and of his brother too) was \"di\", in reference to the god.\n\nIn 1883, 17-year-old Sun Yat-sen was baptized as a Christian when he started his studies in Hong Kong. On that occasion, he chose himself the baptized name (教名) of Rìxīn (日新), meaning \"renew oneself daily\". In Cantonese, this is pronounced \"Yut-sun\"[6] (IPA: , ).\n\nThis is the name he used while he was a student in Hong Kong around 1883. Au Fung-Chi gave Sun the name \"Yìxiān\"/Yet-sen (逸仙), which in Cantonese is pronounced \"Yut-seen\" (IPA: ], ). As this was the name that he used in his frequent contacts with Westerners at the time, he became known under this name in the West. In the Chinese world almost nobody uses the Mandarin version Sun Yixian, but the Cantonese version Sun Yat-sen. When he signed his name in English, he used Sun Yat-sen, as his native language was Cantonese.\n\nA street in Macau has the name Avenida Dr. Sun Yat-sen (). Many Chinese cities also have 逸仙路 \"Yìxiān Lù\".\n\nLater, Sun Yat-sen chose a courtesy name (字) which was Zàizhī (載之, meaning \"conveying it\"). Based on the Chinese philosophical saying \"literature as a vehicle to convey the \"Tao\"\" (文以載道, \"wén yǐ zài dào\"). Courtesy names in China often tried to bear a connection with the personal name of the person. His courtesy name, however, was apparently seldom used, and is rarely known in the Chinese world. He has been referred to with surname Chen as Chen Zaizhi (陳載之).\n\nIn September 1895 young Japanese philosopher Tōten Miyazaki was passionate about the revolutions in China. As a friend he wanted to help Sun while he was in Japan. When they arrived at the \"Crane Hotel\" in Miyazaki Prefecture, for Sun's safety, he used an alias name to register in the hotel.\n\nPreviously on their travel they passed by a board that used the common Japanese family name . So he signed into the hotel book and was referred to under that name. He then added the Japanese personal name .\n\nAfter the establishment of the Republic of China in 1912, and he was no longer pursued by the Qing authorities, local people could refer to him as Sūn Wén (孫文) again. But the name Zhong-shan (中山) was more commonly used later in his life (and to present day). Today, the overwhelming majority of Chinese references to Sun use , which is a variation of the name that originated in Japan.\n\nMany cities in both mainland China and Taiwan feature streets and many other public facilities so named, for example Zhongshan Roads, Zhongshan Parks, \"Zhongshan\" warship. His hometown Heungshan (香山; pin-yin: Xiangshan) County was renamed to Zhongshan apparently as an honour.\n\nIn 1940, well after the death of Sun Yat-sen, the Kuomintang government officially conferred on the late Sun the title Gúofù (國父), meaning \"Father of the Nation\". This title is still frequently used in the Republic of China in Taiwan. In the People's Republic of China on mainland China, the title \"Forerunner of the Revolution\" (革命先行者 \"Gémìng Xiānxíngzhě\") is sometimes used instead. Hong Kong people have long been referring to Sun Yat-sen as Father of the Nation, even after the transfer of sovereignty to the PRC in 1997.\n\nThe honorific suffix \"Xīanshēng\" (先生) has also been applied to his name, sometimes even written with preceding Nuotai, as \"孫中山先生\" (Sun Zhongshan Xiansheng). In English and many other languages, the equivalent of \"Dr. Sun\" is often seen.\n\n"}
{"id": "9419829", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9419829", "title": "Nikolai Shin", "text": "Nikolai Shin\n\nNikolai Shin (1928 in Dalnegorsk, Primorsky Krai, Soviet Union – August 18, 2006 in Tashkent, Uzbekistan) was an Uzbekistani painter of Korean descent, sometimes referred to by Korean newspapers as the \"Picasso of Asia\".\n\nShin's childhood was filled with hardships. His father died at the age of 21, when Shin was only 4; his mother remarried the following year, sending he and his sister to live with his grandmother. In 1937, he and his family were deported to Central Asia along with all other ethnic Koreans in the Russian Far East. After the deportations, his family stayed in the Kazakh SSR for a few years before eventually settling in Tashkent, Uzbek SSR (now Uzbekistan) in 1940. His sister became infected with malaria and died at the age of 16, leaving Shin as sole breadwinner for his mother and grandmother; Shin spoke of his memories of tilling the rocky soil with his bare hands, trying to eke out a living. Eventually, unable to care for his grandmother, he sent her to live with relatives in the Kazakh SSR, where she too died.\n\nIn 1949, Shin graduated from Tashkent's Benkov Art School, and began his career in painting, first receiving acclaim for his work in 1957, when he won the grand prize at the International Youth Festival in Moscow and the second prize in the Republican Festival of Young Artists of Uzbekistan. In 1960, he graduated from Atropsky Art College, also in Tashkent; after his graduation, he began work on his painting \"Requiem\", which would take him until 1982 to complete. \"Requiem\", painted on a canvas three metres tall and forty-four metres wide in primary colors, depicts people without eyes, noses, or mouths; Shin has stated that this was meant to represent the sense of enslavement and namelessness felt by the Koryo-saram as a result of the deportations. Following his completion of \"Requiem\", Shin would go on to paint other works on the theme of the deportations and of Korean culture in Central Asia; he began to become well known in the West with his solo exhibition in Moscow in 1990, and another in Tashkent in 1991. Eventually, his art attracted the attention of the Central Asian-American Enterprise Fund, who offered him financial support, enabling him to hold further exhibitions. His work was recognised by the Korean government in 1997, when they awarded him with the Order of Culture Merit (); he then donated \"Requiem\" to the Museum of Contemporary Art.\n\nAside from his own artwork, Shin also took up a teaching post at his alma mater, the Benkov Art School, despite the low salary; he became a mentor to his student Elena Lee, another Uzbekistani painter of Korean descent, whose work was featured in 2004 at an exhibition in Almaty, Kazakhstan. He died August 18, 2006 in Tashkent, Uzbekistan. He is survived by a wife and three sons.\n\nIn 2001, Shin's life story was made into a documentary film \"Sky-Blue Hometown\", directed by Kim So-young. Kim stated that she was inspired to tell Shin's story after seeing \"Requiem\" displayed at the National Museum of Contemporary Art and reading articles in the domestic press about Koreans in Uzbekistan. Through the film, she hoped \"to convey the earnest wishes and lost dreams of the victims, rather than render a bleak ambiance of the hurt and resentment endured by Koreans as a minority race in the former Soviet Union and Central Asia at the present time.\" After completing the film, she was disappointed by the initial lack of domestic interest; though it won grand prize at the Seoul International Documentary and Film Festival and was honoured as the best Korean documentary at the Pusan International Film Festival, local distributors remained uninterested in the film. \"Sky-Blue Hometown\" would go on to be invited to several international film festivals in 2001, including the Asian American International Film Festival in New York, the Yamagata International Documentary Film Festival in Japan, the International Documentary Film Festival Amsterdam, and the International Festival of Audio-visual Programs in Paris. In November of the following year, it won the Network for the Promotion of Asian Cinema prize at the Taiwan International Documentary Festival. However, it was not shown in cinemas in Korea until 2003.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "43432542", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43432542", "title": "Oge Modie", "text": "Oge Modie\n\nOgechukwu Olufunmilola Modie (born January 12, 1976) is a Nigerian public servant who works as the Chief of Staff (an unconstitutional office) to the Honorable Minister of State for Petroleum Resources. She was the Chief of Staff (an unconstitutional office) to the former Group Managing Director (GMD) of Nigerian National Petroleum Corporation (NNPC), Nigeria's National Oil Corporation. Subsequently, the GMD was named as the Chairman of the Board of the Corporation, as provided for under Section 1(2) of the Nigerian National Petroleum Corporation Act of 1997, as amended on 4 July 2016. Her primary responsibility is the provision of administrative, organisational and advisory support to Dr. Emmanuel Ibe Kachikwu. She assumed duty in August 2015.\n\nPrior to her present position, Modie was appointed by the Board of Directors of NOIPolls Limited as Managing Director/Chief Executive Officer in August 2012. Modie was featured in \"Business Day\" where she was referred to as \"a dynamic woman with skills that show in the ways she carries out her work\" and \"the first woman to have headed Nigeria’s leading independent opinion polling and research organization\". Under her leadership, NOIPolls grew in visibility across the West African region and the continent. The company won various awards; the Global Excellence Quality Award for the \"Global Most Innovative Consumer Research and Data Analysis Company\" for the year 2014 and the Pan-African Distinguished Achievers Awards (PADAA) for \"West Africa's No.1 Opinion Polling Research Organization\". In 2015, the company also won the African Quality Achievement Award for \"Africa's Most Reliable Quality Opinion Research and Polling Service Provider\", Nigerian Brands Organisation's \"Most Innovative and Impactful Market Research Agency of the Year-Platinum Award\" and \"Opinion Polling Company of the Year\" by the \"African Development Magazine\".\n\nModie has developed a career in corporate finance, SME development and finance, opinion research and now public service.\n\nShe is a member of ESOMAR World Research (Netherlands), a Distinguished Honorary Fellow of the Institute of Brand Management of Nigeria (FIBN) and a Fellow of the Institute of Credit Administration of Nigeria (FICA). In addition, she is a Class 2015 member of the African Leadership Network (ALN). ALN creates and strengthens relationships between these leaders to encourage intra-African trade, investment and collaboration. Modie was conferred with an \"African Leadership Excellence Award\" by \"African Leadership Magazine\", United Kingdom Limited. She also received an Award of Excellence as \"Exceptional Contributor to the Development of Economics\" from the University of Abuja chapter of the \"National Economics Students Association (NESA).\"\n\nOge Funlola Modie is an Igbo from Ogwashi-Uku, Delta State, Nigeria. She was born at the University College Hospital, Ibadan. Her names shows a link to both the Western and Eastern part of Nigeria, her paternal grandmother was Yoruba. Her parents were professionals; her father retired as the Associate Dean of the School of Medicine at the University of Nigeria Nsukka, and her mother a retired Chief Nursing Administrator at the University of Nigeria Teaching Hospital Enugu.\n\nOge Modie grew up in the civil service town of Enugu on the university campus, where she fostered her early years of primary education at University Primary School UNEC, Enugu and her secondary education at Federal Government Girls College, Owerri, Imo State. She studied Economics at the University of Nigeria, Nsukka, Enugu State. During her undergraduate years she was active in student groups, joining the AIESEC community, campaigning and winning the Vice President post for Marketing and being paramount in fund raising for several conferences (Legon, Ghana and Zaria, Nigeria). She also was part of the group that formed Policy Analysis and Research Group (PARG, a group that held tutorials for fellow students in the Economics department).\n\nAfter about eight years of working, she studied for a Masters in Business Administration at the Cranfield University School of Management United Kingdom. She graduated in 2007. Modie also has various certificates in Project Management, Language, a training certificate in Conflict Resolution and has contributed to a range of publications.\n\nShe participates in various organisations that are focused on empowering women and children.\n\nModie's corporate finance career started in 1999 with Agusto & Company Limited, Nigeria’s first indigenous credit rating company. Agusto & Co Limited then partnered its consulting arm with IBFC Consulting to become Alliance Consulting where she worked six years as an Associate consultant building up her skills in West African Mergers & Acquisition Market with a focus on the Nigerian and Ghanaian financial services industry (pre-consolidation era).\n\nShe was also part of the teaching faculty at the IBFC AGUSTO training school where she taught Treasury Arithmetic and Credit analysis to Nigerian bankers. She left in September 2003 to join the HEIRS Alliance team, a portfolio company founded by Tony Elumelu.\n\nShe was the Manager, Corporate Venturing and Incubation at Heirs Alliance where she was part of the core team that managed the financial services portfolio (over US$ 5bn) of the Standard Trust Bank group of companies now United Bank For Africa UBA group. She was the project lead on various M & A projects across the West African region.\n\nDuring her time at Heirs Alliance, Modie's key highlight was the planning, execution and management of a one-year US$4 million project covering acquisition, restructuring and management of a financial services company in the insurance sector. Successful planning led to the birth of one of top insurance companies in Nigeria. In mid 2005, Heirs Alliance was dissolved temporarily and the management formed a new company called Nextzon Business Services.\n\nAt Nextzon, she was key in designing the Nextzon Business Incubator which warranted a grant from the World Bank MSME program.\n\nOn her return from business school, from 2008 to 2011, she was the Fund Director (West Africa) at Makeda Fund Managers LLC, a US$50million SME private equity start up fund focused on investing in women entrepreneurs across West Africa, the fund was run in partnership with Small Enterprises Assistance Fund (SEAF) based in Washington, D.C.\n\nAs a fund director, Modie generated interest in investing in women owned/managed SMEs across West Africa. She also provided technical assistance to these women-owned businesses, particularly those that support their journey by obtaining patient capital. She was responsible for fund marketing, relationship building & managing, deal sourcing and managing investor relationships\n\nIn 2009, she founded a company called Alternativ Managers that has partnered with the Ford Foundation, The Nigeria SME Agency (SMEDAN), LEAP Africa and Fate Foundation to build capacity in SMEs and stakeholders in the sector.\n\nModie joined NOIPolls Limited as the Chief Operating Officer in February 2012, became Managing Director and CEO as approved by the Board of Directors in August 2012 until her appointment as a key support staff to the Minister of State of Petroleum Resources and Group Managing Director of Nigerian National Petroleum Corporation (NNPC) in 2015 as the Chief of Staff.\n\nModie has been deeply involved in various nonprofit organizations with a focus on microcredit, entrepreneurship, private sector development and gender empowerment. More specifically she has supported the following initiatives:\n\n\nShe is the founder of a youth capacity building organization called Kairos Knowledge Centre, founder of First Born Foundation, and the writer of a weekly devotional called Wellspring of Life.\n\nShe has joined the board of Digital Media Development Initiative, a non-profit that has the vision to be the leading digital media brand improving the efficiency and productivity of Nigeria’s individuals and organizations by 2020.\n\nModie has been a speaker at various events, including;\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "17004224", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17004224", "title": "Qaysin Quli", "text": "Qaysin Quli\n\nKaisyn Shuvayevich Kuliev or Qaysin Quli (; ; 1 November 1917 – 4 June, 1985) was a Balkar poet. He wrote in the Karachay-Balkar language and his poems are widely translated to most languages in Soviet Union, such as Russian, Ossetian, Lithuanian, Belorussian, Armenian, and to many others languages of the former Republics of the Soviet Union and worldwide. Kaisyn Kuliev's books were published in 140 languages of Europe, Asia and America.\n\nKaisyn Kuliev (Quli) was born on November 1, 1917, in Balkar aul Upper Chegem to a family headed by a stock-breeder and hunter. He spent his childhood in the mountains, but was orphaned at an early age and started to work. In 1926 a school was established in his aul, and he started to read and study Russian. By the age of ten he had written his first poems. After Kaisyn Kuliev graduated from school, he entered a technical college in Nalchik and saw his first publications iat 17. In 1935 Kaisyn Kuliev arrived in Moscow and entered GITIS Theater Institute. In the same period he attended lectures at the Maxim Gorky Literature Institute and wrote poems. In 1939 he returned to Nalchik, where he taught literature at the local teachers' training college. In 1940, he published his first book of poetry, \"Hello, Morning!\". In 1940 Kuliev was drafted into the Red Army, where he served in the paratrooper brigade. In the summer of 1941, his brigade was transferred to Latvian SSR, where he fought in the Second World War. Later he was wounded in a battle near Orel. While in the hospital Kaisyn Kuliev wrote many poems that were published in \"Pravda\", and \"Krasnaya Zvezda\" and later he participated in the battle of Stalingrad as a military correspondent for the \"Syny Otechestva\" newspaper. Participating in the operation to liberate the Southern cities, Kaisyn Kuliev was wounded again. During the period between 1942 and 1944, he wrote \"In an hour of Trouble\", \"About Someone Who Didn't Return\", and \"Perekop\". In 1944, Joseph Stalin ordered deportation of the Balkar ethnic group to Kyrgyzstan and Kazakhstan. Although Boris Pasternak managed to secure a permission for Kuliev to stay in Moscow, in 1945, Kuliev chose to live in Kyrgyzstan, where he worked in the local Writers' Union. In Frunze, he met an Ingush girl, Maka, whom he married. The Ingush ethnic group was also deported by Stalin to Central Asia. Since Kaisyn Kuliev's own poetry could not be published because he belonged to a deported people, he translated others' poetry. Boris Pasternak, in his letters, was encouraging to the younger poet to have a faith in a better future no matter what. In May 1956, Kouliev went to Moscow, and in 1957 he published \"Mountains\" and \"The Bread and the Rose\" (1957) with the help of Russian poet Nikolai Tikhonov. In 1956, Balkars were allowed to return to their native places and Kaisyn Kuliev returned to Nalchik. There he published his collections \"The Wounded Stone\" (1964), \"The Book of the Land\" (1972), \"The Evening\" (1974), \"The Evening Light\" (1979), \"A Beauty of the Earth\" (1980), and others. Kouliev's poetry was finally recognized by Soviet officials when Stalin's era ended, and he was honored with State Prizes of the Soviet Republics (1966), USSR State Prize (1974) and also Lenin Prize but only after his death (1990 post-mortem). His Russian translators included Naum Grebnev, Bella Akhmadulina, Naum Korzhavin and Oleg Chukhontsev. Kaisyn Kuliev died in 1985 and was buried in the garden of his house at the behest of his Will. The Kaisyn Kuliev Memorial Museum was opened at that location a few years later. One of the major streets of Nalchik, the capital of Kabardino-Balkaria, was named after the poet. Balkar Theater of Drama in Nalchik was also named after Kaisyn Kuliev. His poetry is the \"lessons of courage, nobleness and honour\".\n\nHis son Eldar Kuliev (31 December 1951 – 14 January 2017) was a film director and screenwriter living in Moscow. Alim Kouliev is an actor and stage director living in the United States. Azamat Kuliev is an artist living in Istanbul, Turkey.\n\nPoetry translated into English\n\nKULIYEV, KAISYN. Grass and Stone. Selected Poems. Translated by Olga Shartse. Vestnik Kavkaza, Pyatigorsk, Russia, 2007. Bilingual edition. Translation into Russian by Naum Grebnev, Oleg Chukhontsev, Vera Zvyagintseva. 298 pp.\n\nKULIEV, KAISYN. Grass and Stone. Translated By Olga Shartse. Selected Poems. Moscow, Progress Publishers, 1977\n\nPoetry translated into Russian\n\nPoetry translated to other languages\n\nProse written in Russian\n\n"}
{"id": "2136143", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2136143", "title": "Salvador Laurel", "text": "Salvador Laurel\n\nSalvador Roman Hidalgo Laurel (November 18, 1928 – January 27, 2004), also known as Doy Laurel, was a Filipino lawyer and politician who served as Vice-President of the Philippines from 1986 to 1992 under President Corazon Aquino and briefly served as Prime Minister from 25 February to 25 March 1986, when the position was abolished. He was a major leader of the United Nationalist Democratic Organization (UNIDO), the political party that helped topple the dictatorship of President Ferdinand Marcos with the 1986 People Power Revolution.\n\nLaurel is the fifth son of President José P. Laurel of the Second Philippine Republic, a puppet state of Japan during the Second World War. He was born to a family whose illustrious lineage spans generations of nationalists who distinguished themselves as public servants. His grandfather, Judge Sotero Remoquillo Laurel, was both a delegate to the Malolos Congress in 1899 and Secretary of the Interior in the first Philippine revolutionary government under President Emilio Aguinaldo.\n\nHe first enrolled at Centro Escolar de Señoritas, studying there from 1933 to 1935. Laurel's father wanted Laurel to experience a public school education and so enrolled him first in the Paco Elementary School (1935–36) and then the Justo Lukban Elementary School (1936–37). He finished elementary schooling at Ateneo de Manila Grade School in 1941. In his first year of high school, Laurel received second honors, with a general average of 93.4. Barely three months later, his studies came to an abrupt halt with the outbreak of the war in the Pacific Theater on 8 December 1941. The school was temporarily closed by the Japanese government as run by American Jesuits, which prompted Laurel to enrol at De La Salle College High School, where he graduated in 1946.\n\nLaurel was a member of Upsilon Sigma Phi during his university studies.\n\nTowards the end of the war, the Japanese Supreme Council of War issued an order to have officials of the Philippine government flown to Japan. President Laurel volunteered to go alone to spare his Cabinet members the ordeal of being separated from their families. His wife, Paciencia, and seven of his children went with him. Among the officials who accompanied him were Speaker Benigno Aquino, Sr., Minister of Education Camilo Osias and his wife, and General Mateo Capinpin. On 21 March 1945, the group began a long and perilous overland journey to Tuguegarao, where a Japanese navy plane would fly the group to Japan. The odyssey ended in Nara, where they were confined until 10 November 1945.\n\nThe long confinement gave the romantic and impressionable 15-year-old Salvador the luxury of time to write poetry and prose and satisfy his insatiable thirst for books. Whenever he was lucky to find an English book, he would read it voraciously and discuss it with his mentor, Camilo Osias. But his most treasured moments in Nara were those spent with his father, enjoying their daily morning walks in the park when José would discuss his views on life.\n\nOn 12 September 1945, José Laurel was arrested by a group of Americans headed by a Colonel Turner and was taken to Sugamo Prison. The Laurel family was flown to Manila two months later on 10 November 1945.\n\nChristmas 1945 was the bleakest one for the Laurel family; their Peñafrancia home was looted and emptied of its furniture, while the former President was placed in solitary confinement in Sugamo Prison in Japan. Salvador wrote the poem \"To My Beloved Father\" to lift up his father's spirits and sent it to him as a Christmas present.\n\nAt La Salle, he joined a group of young men who planned to go by sea to the Dutch East Indies (Indonesia since 1949) and join Sukarno in the struggle for independence from the Dutch Empire, but local authorities stopped them at the pier. He completed his secondary education at La Salle in March 1946.\n\nAlthough all his older brothers were lawyers, he enrolled at the University of the Philippines as a premedicine student, where he obtained his AA (premdicine) and was admitted to medicine proper, shifting to law two years later. He was admitted to the law school while working to complete his (AA Pre-Law). He received his LLB (Bachelor of Laws), degree in UP in March 1952.\n\nHe was acclaimed the University Champion Orator after he won the first prize in three consecutive inter-university oratorical contests: the 1949 Inter-University Oratorical contest sponsored by the Civil Liberties Union (CLU); the Student Councils Association of the Philippines (SCAP) and the Inter-University Symposium on the Japanese Peace Treaty in 1951.\n\nWithout waiting for the results of the bar examination, he left for Connecticut to study at Yale University, his father's \"alma mater\" where he earned his Master of Laws degree (LL.M.) in 1953. He earned the title Doctor of Juridical Science (J.S.D.) at Yale University in 1960.\n\nOf his studies and scholastic endeavors at Yale University, Myres S. McDougal, a Sterling Professor of Law, Emeritus of the Yale Law School, wrote:\n\nLaurel later married Celia Díaz, a society debutante.\n\nIn Manila, Laurel joined his brothers in the Laurel Law Offices in Intramuros. During his early years as a barrister, he became deeply involved with legal aid. He was appalled to discover that 94% of the cases filed by indigents in the fiscal's office were dismissed for lack of counsel. This led him to found Citizen's Legal Aid Society of the Philippines (CLASP).\n\nHe campaigned throughout the country, convincing lawyers to join him in his quest for justice for the poor, and by the end of that first year, 750 lawyers had joined CLASP. In 1976, the International Bar Association honored him with the \"Most Outstanding Legal Aid Lawyer of the World\" award in Stockholm.\n\nIn 1960, Laurel edited the papers of the convention that drafted the 1935 Constitution, compressing 24 tomes of documents into seven compact volumes. It was in fulfilment of a promise he had made to his father, who was originally to collaborate in the project but died prematurely of a cerebral haemorrhage, in 1959.\n\nIt was not until 1967 that Laurel seriously entered politics, when he won a Senate seat in the 6th Congress. The youngest Nacionalista senator, Laurel was named the most outstanding senator from 1968 to 1971. When he won in 1967, Laurel had run ran for the Senate to continue his crusade for justice for the poor. He emerged victorious as the youngest Nacionalista elected senator, and a distinguished public service career, spanning nearly 37 years, began.\n\nIn his first year as senator, he was Chairman of the Senate Committee on Justice, Committee on Economic Affairs, Committee on Government Reorganization, and Committee on Community Development. He authored five \"Justice for the Poor Laws\" known as the \"Laurel Laws,\" nine laws on Judicial Reforms (1968–1970); the Government Reorganization Act (1968–1970) and Amendments to the Land Reform Code (1971). He also wrote a book on penal reforms and another on land reform, \"This Land Is Mine.\" He was consistently voted \"Most Outstanding Senator of the Year\" in 1968, 1969, 1970, and 1971.\n\nIn 1972, Laurel was the first Philippine government official to visit the People's Republic of China, then under Chairman Mao Zedong. He was met by Premier Zhou Enlai, Vice Premier (later President) Li Xinnian, and other high officials of the Chinese government. Upon his return, he submitted an extensive report to the Senate on his China visit. He strongly advocated for the resumption of friendly ties with the PRC and the adoption of the One-China Policy, which eventually became the official stand of the Philippines.\n\nFor a month following the People Power Revolution in late February 1986, Laurel became the only person in Philippine history to hold the posts of Vice-President, Prime Minister, and Foreign Minister concurrently. The office of Prime Minister was abolished in late March 1986, and Laurel was succeeded as Secretary of Foreign Affairs \nby Raul Manglapus in 1987.\n\nHe ran for president in the 1992 elections as the head of the Nacionalista Party. However, he failed to gain Aquino's support and so lost to her favoured successor, Fidel V. Ramos.\n\nIn 1996, he was appointed by President Ramos as the chairman of the Philippine National Centennial Commission in the run-up to the Philippine Centennial of the country's independence on 12 June 1898. Through his unwavering leadership, he revived Filipino nationalism by promoting Filipino heritage and culture with heavy advertising.\n\nHe was supposed to resign after the Centennial celebrations, but President Joseph Estrada extended his term and abolished the Commission only in 1999. A few months after, Laurel was charged with graft before the Sandiganbayan (political antigraft court) for misappropriating funds for constructing of the controversial, ₱1.165-billion Centennial Expo in Clark Freeport Zone in Angeles City, Pampanga. Laurel vehemently denied the allegation and chose to stand as his own defense counsel.\n\nHe returned to private life and spent most of his retirement in the United States. He contracted lymphoma and died of the same ailment on 27 January 2004, in Atherton, California. His remains were cremated days afterward, with his ashes interred at the Libingan ng mga Bayani.\n\nOn 29 January, President Gloria Macapagal-Arroyo issued Presidential Proclamation № 544, declaring several days of official mourning for Laurel.\n\n"}
{"id": "51459022", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51459022", "title": "Sean Saifa Wall", "text": "Sean Saifa Wall\n\nSean Saifa Wall is a black intersex man, advocate for intersex rights and former president of Interact Advocates for Intersex Youth. He is widely published, and works in intersex and HIV advocacy, and social documentary.\n\nSean Saifa Wall has described growing up in the Bronx in the 1980s a family with other intersex members. In an interview by Pidgeon Pagonis, he describes how an uncle of his was forced to sleep outside on the porch of his hospital after a surgery, and how his intersex and black identities are inseparable. Drawing parallels, Wall has stated, \"Although seemingly different subjects, they share the same common denominator, state-sponsored violence against marginalized individuals\". Diagnosed with partial androgen insensitivity syndrome, he was subjected to a gonadectomy at age 13, necessitating lifelong hormone replacement therapy.\n\nWall volunteered for Gay Men's Health Crisis at age 14, prior to studying at Williams College. He later travelled to Cuba with Pastors for Peace, documenting the local health system.\n\nWall served as president of Interact Advocates for Intersex Youth for three years. During that time, Interact filed a lawsuit, \"M.C. v. Medical University of South Carolina\", in the County of Richmond, South Carolina, in partnership with the Southern Poverty Law Center.\n\nIn 2015, Wall joined an international advisory board for a first philanthropic Intersex Human Rights Fund established by the Astraea Lesbian Foundation for Justice. He has also developed an art project entitled EMERGE.\n\nAs part of his advocacy work, Wall has been interviewed by Nightline, in a segment where he also confronted his childhood surgeon, BuzzFeed, HuffPost Live, and written for The Advocate and Quartz. Wall spoke at TEDxGrandRapids in May 2015.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "28018", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28018", "title": "Simon Magus", "text": "Simon Magus\n\nSimon the Sorcerer, or Simon the Magician (Latin: Simon Magus, Greek Σίμων ὁ μάγος), is a religious figure whose confrontation with Peter is recorded in Acts . The act of simony, or paying for position and influence in the church, is named after Simon.\n\nAccording to Acts, Simon was a Samaritan magus or religious figure of the 1st century AD and a convert to Christianity, baptised by Philip the Evangelist. Simon later clashed with Peter. Accounts of Simon by writers of the second century exist, but are not considered verifiable. Surviving traditions about Simon appear in orthodox texts, such as those of Irenaeus, Justin Martyr, Hippolytus, and Epiphanius, where he is often regarded as the founder of Gnosticism, which has been accepted by some modern scholars.\n\nJustin, who was himself a 2nd-century native of Samaria, wrote that nearly all the Samaritans in his time were adherents of a certain Simon of Gitta, a village not far from Flavia Neapolis. According to Josephus, Gitta (also spelled Getta) was settled by the tribe of Dan. Irenaeus held him as being the founder of the sect of the Simonians. Hippolytus quotes from a work he attributes to Simon or his followers the Simonians, \"Apophasis Megale\", or \"Great Declaration\". According to the early church heresiologists, Simon is also supposed to have written several lost treatises, two of which bear the titles \"The Four Quarters of the World\" and \"The Sermons of the Refuter\". In apocryphal works including the \"Acts of Peter\", Pseudo-Clementines, and the \"Epistle of the Apostles\", Simon also appears as a formidable sorcerer with the ability to levitate and fly at will. He is sometimes referred to as \"the Bad Samaritan\" due to his malevolent character. The \"Apostolic Constitutions\" also accuses him of \"lawlessness\" (antinomianism).\n\nThe earliest reference to Simon is in the canonical Acts of the Apostles; this is his only appearance in the New Testament.\n\nJosephus mentions a magician named Atomus (Simon in Latin manuscripts) as being involved with the procurator Felix, King Agrippa II and his sister Drusilla, where Felix has Simon convince Drusilla to marry him instead of the man she was engaged to. Some scholars have considered the two to be identical, although this is not generally accepted, as the Simon of Josephus is a Jew rather than a Samaritan.\n\nJustin Martyr (in his \"Apologies\", and in a lost work against heresies, which Irenaeus used as his main source) and Irenaeus (\"Adversus Haereses\") record that after being cast out by the Apostles, Simon Magus came to Rome where, having joined to himself a profligate woman of the name of Helen, he gave out that it was he who appeared among the Jews as the Son, in Samaria as the Father and among other nations as the Holy Spirit. He performed such signs by magic acts during the reign of Claudius that he was regarded as a god and honored with a statue on the island in the Tiber which the two bridges cross, with the inscription \"Simoni Deo Sancto\", \"To Simon the Holy God\" (). However, in the 16th century, a statue was unearthed on the island in question, inscribed to Semo Sancus, a Sabine deity, leading most scholars to believe that Justin Martyr confused \"Semoni Sancus\" with Simon.\n\nJustin and Irenaeus are the first to recount the myth of Simon and Helen, which became the center of Simonian doctrine. Epiphanius of Salamis also makes Simon speak in the first person in several places in his \"Panarion\", and the implication is that he is quoting from a version of it, though perhaps not verbatim.\n\nIn the beginning God had his first thought, his \"Ennoia\", which was female, and that thought was to create the angels. The First Thought then descended into the lower regions and created the angels. But the angels rebelled against her out of jealousy and created the world as her prison, imprisoning her in a female body. Thereafter, she was reincarnated many times, each time being shamed. Her many reincarnations included Helen of Troy, among others, and she finally was reincarnated as Helen, a slave and prostitute in the Phoenician city of Tyre. God then descended in the form of Simon Magus, to rescue his \"Ennoia\", and to confer salvation upon men through knowledge of himself.\n\n\"And on her account,\" he says, \"did I come down; for this is that which is written in the Gospel 'the lost sheep'.\n\nFor as the angels were mismanaging the world, owing to their individual lust for rule, he had come to set things straight, and had descended under a changed form, likening himself to the Principalities and Powers through whom he passed, so that among men he appeared as a man, though he was not a man, and was thought to have suffered in Judaea, though he had not suffered.\n\n\"But in each heaven I changed my form,\" says he, \"in accordance with the form of those who were in each heaven, that I might escape the notice of my angelic powers and come down to the Thought, who is none other than her who is also called Prunikos and Holy Ghost, through whom I created the angels, while the angels created the world and men.\"\n\nBut the prophets had delivered their prophecies under the inspiration of the world-creating angels: wherefore those who had their hope in him and in Helen minded them no more, and, as being free, did what they pleased; for men were saved according to his grace, but not according to just works. For works were not just by nature, but only by convention, in accordance with the enactments of the world-creating angels, who by precepts of this kind sought to bring men into slavery. Wherefore he promised that the world should be dissolved, and that those who were his should be freed from the dominion of the world-creators.\n\nIn this account of Simon there is a large portion common to almost all forms of Gnostic myths, together with something special to this form. They have in common the place in the work of creation assigned to the female principle, the conception of the Deity; the ignorance of the rulers of this lower world with regard to the Supreme Power; the descent of the female (Sophia) into the lower regions, and her inability to return. Special to the Simonian tale is the identification of Simon himself with the Supreme, and of his consort Helena with the female principle.\n\nIn \"Philosophumena\", Hippolytus retells the narrative on Simon written by Irenaeus (who in his turn based it on the lost \"Syntagma\" of Justin). Upon the story of \"the lost sheep,\" Hippolytus comments as follows:\n\nAlso, Hippolytus demonstrates acquaintance with the folk tradition on Simon which depicts him rather as a magician than Gnostic, and in constant conflict with Peter (also present in the apocrypha and Pseudo-Clementine literature). Reduced to despair by the curse laid upon him by Peter in the Acts, Simon soon abjured the faith and embarked on the career of a sorcerer:\n\nHippolytus gives a much more doctrinally detailed account of Simonianism, including a system of divine emanations and interpretations of the Old Testament, with extensive quotations from the \"Apophasis Megale\". Some believe that Hippolytus' account is of a later, more developed form of Simonianism, and that the original doctrines of the group were simpler, close to the account given by Justin Martyr and Irenaeus (this account however is also included in Hippolytus' work).\n\nHippolytus says the free love doctrine was held by them in its purest form, and speaks in language similar to that of Irenaeus about the variety of magic arts practiced by the Simonians, and also of their having images of Simon and Helen under the forms of Zeus and Athena. But he also adds, \"if any one, on seeing the images either of Simon or Helen, shall call them by those names, he is cast out, as showing ignorance of the mysteries.\"\n\nEpiphanius writes that there were some Simonians still in existence in his day (c. AD 367), but he speaks of them as almost extinct. Gitta, he says, had sunk from a town into a village. Epiphanius further charges Simon with having tried to wrest the words of St. Paul about the armour of God (Ephesians 6:14–16) into agreement with his own identification of the \"Ennoia\" with Athena. He tells us also that he gave barbaric names to the \"principalities and powers,\" and that he was the beginning of the Gnostics. The Law, according to him, was not of God, but of \"the sinister power.\" The same was the case with the prophets, and it was death to believe in the Old Testament.\n\nCyril of Jerusalem (346 AD) in the sixth of his Catechetical Lectures prefaces his history of the Manichaeans by a brief account of earlier heresies: Simon Magus, he says, had given out that he was going to be translated to heaven, and was actually careening through the air in a chariot drawn by demons when Peter and Paul knelt down and prayed, and their prayers brought him to earth a mangled corpse.\n\nThe apocryphal \"Acts of Peter\" gives a more elaborate tale of Simon Magus' death. Simon is performing magic in the Forum, and in order to prove himself to be a god, he levitates up into the air above the Forum. The apostle Peter prays to God to stop his flying, and he stops mid-air and falls into a place called \"the \"Sacra Via\"\" (meaning \"Holy Way\" in Latin), breaking his legs \"in three parts\". The previously non-hostile crowd then stones him. Now gravely injured, he had some people carry him on a bed at night from Rome to Ariccia, and was brought from there to Terracina to a person named Castor, who on accusations of sorcery was banished from Rome. The Acts then continue to say that he died \"while being sorely cut by two physicians\".\n\nAnother apocryphal document, the \"Acts of Peter and Paul\" gives a slightly different version of the above incident, which was shown in the context of a debate in front of the Emperor Nero. In this version, Paul the Apostle is present along with Peter, Simon levitates from a high wooden tower made upon his request, and dies \"divided into four parts\" due to the fall. Peter and Paul were then put in prison by Nero while ordering Simon's body be kept carefully for three days (thinking he would rise again).\n\nThe Pseudo-Clementine \"Recognitions\" and \"Homilies\" give an account of Simon Magus and some of his teachings in regards to the Simonians. They are of uncertain date and authorship, and seem to have been worked over by several hands in the interest of diverse forms of belief.\n\nSimon was a Samaritan, and a native of Gitta. The name of his father was Antonius, that of his mother Rachel. He studied Greek literature in Alexandria, and, having in addition to this great power in magic, became so ambitious that he wished to be considered a highest power, higher even than the God who created the world. And sometimes he \"darkly hinted\" that he himself was Christ, calling himself the Standing One. Which name he used to indicate that he would stand for ever, and had no cause in him for bodily decay. He did not believe that the God who created the world was the highest, nor that the dead would rise. He denied Jerusalem, and introduced Mount Gerizim in its stead. In place of the Christ of the Christians he proclaimed himself; and the Law he allegorized in accordance with his own preconceptions. He did indeed preach righteousness and judgment to come.\n\nThere was one John the Baptist, who was the forerunner of Jesus in accordance with the law of parity; and as Jesus had twelve Apostles, bearing the number of the twelve solar months, so had he thirty leading men, making up the monthly tale of the moon. One of these thirty leading men was a woman called Helen, and the first and most esteemed by John was Simon. But on the death of John he was away in Egypt for the practice of magic, and one Dositheus, by spreading a false report of Simon's death, succeeded in installing himself as head of the sect. Simon on coming back thought it better to dissemble, and, pretending friendship for Dositheus, accepted the second place. Soon, however, he began to hint to the thirty that Dositheus was not as well acquainted as he might be with the doctrines of the school.\n\nThe encounter between both Dositheus and Simon Magus was the beginnings of the sect of Simonians. The narrative goes on to say that Simon, having fallen in love with Helen, took her about with him, saying that she had come down into the world from the highest heavens, and was his mistress, inasmuch as she was Sophia, the Mother of All. It was for her sake, he said, that the Greeks and Barbarians fought the Trojan War, deluding themselves with an image of truth, for the real being was then present with the First God. By such allegories Simon deceived many, while at the same time he astounded them by his magic. A description is given of how he made a familiar spirit for himself by conjuring the soul out of a boy and keeping his image in his bedroom, and many instances of his feats of magic are given.\n\nThe Pseudo-Clementine writings were used in the 4th century by members of the Ebionite sect, one characteristic of which was hostility to Paul, whom they refused to recognize as an apostle. Ferdinand Christian Baur (1792–1860), founder of the Tübingen School, drew attention to the anti-Pauline characteristic in the Pseudo-Clementines, and pointed out that in the disputations between Simon and Peter, some of the claims Simon is represented as making (e.g. that of having seen the Lord, though not in his lifetime, yet subsequently in vision) were really the claims of Paul; and urged that Peter's refutation of Simon was in some places intended as a polemic against Paul. The enmity between Peter and Simon is clearly shown. Simon's magical powers are juxtaposed with Peter's powers in order to express Peter's authority over Simon through the power of prayer, and in the the identification of Paul with Simon Magus is effected. Simon is there made to maintain that he has a better knowledge of the mind of Jesus than the disciples, who had seen and conversed with Jesus in person. His reason for this strange assertion is that visions are superior to waking reality, as divine is superior to human. Peter has much to say in reply to this, but the passage which mainly concerns us is as follows:\n\nThe anti-Pauline context of the Pseudo-Clementines is recognised, but the association with Simon Magus is surprising, according to Jozef Verheyden, since they have little in common. However the majority of scholars accept Baur's identification, though others, including Lightfoot, argued extensively that the \"Simon Magus\" of the Pseudo-Clementines was not meant to stand for Paul. Recently, Berlin pastor Hermann Detering (1995) has made the case that the veiled anti-Pauline stance of the Pseudo-Clementines has historical roots, that the Acts 8 encounter between Simon the magician and Peter is itself based on the conflict between Peter and Paul. Detering's belief has not found general support among scholars, but Robert M. Price argues much the same case in \"The Amazing Colossal Apostle:The Search for the Historical Paul\" (2012).\n\nThere are other features in the portrait which remind us strongly of Marcion. For the first thing which we learn from the \"Homilies\" about Simon's opinions is that he denied that God was just. By \"God\" he meant the creator god. But he undertakes to prove from the Jewish scriptures that there is a higher god, who really possesses the perfections which are falsely ascribed to the lower god. On these grounds Peter complains that, when he was setting out for the gentiles to convert them from their worship of \"many gods upon earth\", Satan had sent Simon before him to make them believe that there were \"many gods in heaven\".\n\nIn Irish legend Simon Magus came to be associated with Druidism. He is said to have come to the aid of the Druid Mog Ruith. The fierce denunciation of Christianity by Irish Druids appears to have resulted in Simon Magus being associated with Druidism. The word Druid was sometimes translated into Latin as \"magus\", and Simon Magus was also known in Ireland as \"Simon the Druid\".\nThe church of Santa Francesca Romana, Rome, is claimed to have been built on the spot where Simon fell. Within the Church is a dented slab of marble that purports to bear the imprints of the knees of Peter and Paul during their prayer. The fantastic stories of Simon the Sorcerer persisted into the later Middle Ages, becoming a possible inspiration for the \"Faustbuch\" and Goethe's Faust.\n\nThe opening story in Danilo Kiš's 1983 collection \"The Encyclopedia of the Dead\", \"Simon Magus\", retells the confrontation between Simon and Peter agreeing with the account in the \"Acts of Peter\", and provides an additional alternative ending in which Simon asks to be buried alive in order to be resurrected three days later (after which his body is found putrefied).\n\n"}
{"id": "436261", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=436261", "title": "Sirimavo Bandaranaike", "text": "Sirimavo Bandaranaike\n\nSirima Ratwatte Dias Bandaranaike (, ; 17 April 1916 – 10 October 2000), commonly known as Sirimavo Bandaranaike, was a Sri Lankan stateswoman. She became the world's first definitive non-hereditary female head of state or government when she was elected Prime Minister of Sri Lanka in 1960. She served three terms: 1960–1965, 1970–1977 and 1994–2000.\n\nBorn into an aristocratic Kandyan family, Sirimavo Bandaranaike was educated in Catholic, English-speaking schools, though in fact she was Buddhist and spoke Sinhala as well as English. On graduating from secondary school, she worked in various social programmes before marrying and raising a family. Playing hostess to her husband S.W.R.D. Bandaranaike, who was involved in politics and later became Prime Minister, she gained his trust as an informal advisor. Her work in a voluntary social improvement projects focused on improving the lives of village women and girls. Following her husband’s assassination in 1959, Sirimavo Bandaranaike entered politics and in 1960 became the first elected woman to serve as Prime Minister of a country.\n\nBandaranaike attempted to reform the former British Colony of Ceylon into a socialist republic by nationalizing organizations in the banking, education, industry, media and trade sectors. Changing the administrative language from English to Sinhala, she acerbated discontent among the estate Tamils, who had become stateless under the Citizenship Act of 1948. During Bandaranaike's first two terms as Prime Minister, the country was plagued by high inflation and taxes, a dependence on food imports to feed the populace, high unemployment, and polarization between the Sinhalese and Tamil populations. Surviving an attempted coup d'état in 1962, as well as a 1971 insurrection of radical youths, in 1972 she led the Sri Lanka Freedom Party to draft a new constitution and form a republic. In 1975, Bandaranaike created what would eventually become the Sri Lankan Ministry of Women and Child Affairs, also appointing the first woman to serve in the Sri Lankan Cabinet. Bandaranaike's tenure was marked by inadequate economic development at the national level, while simultaneously successfully navigating the polarized Cold War factions through her leadership in the Non-Aligned Nations.\n\nOusted from power in the 1977 elections, Bandaranaike was stripped of her civil rights in 1980 and barred from government for seven years. Her successors initially improved the domestic economy, but failing to address social issues, led the country into a protracted civil war. When she returned to party leadership in 1986, Bandaranaike opposed the government solution of allowing the Indian Peace Keeping Force to intervene in the dispute, believing it violated Sri Lankan sovereignty. Failing to win the office of President in 1988, she served as Leader of the Opposition in the legislature from 1989 to 1994. When her daughter won the presidential election that year, Bandaranaike was appointed to her third term as Prime Minister and served until her retirement in 2000, two months prior to her death.\n\nBandaranaike was born Sirima Ratwatte on 17 April 1916 at the Ellawala Walawwa in Ratnapura, in British Ceylon. Her mother was Rosalind Hilda Mahawalatenne Kumarihamy, a reputed Ayurvedic physician, and her father was Barnes Ratwatte, a politician. Her maternal grandfather Mahawalatenne, and later her father, served as Rate Mahatmaya, a native headman, of Balangoda. Her father was a member of the Radala, hereditary nobility from the Kingdom of Kandy. Her paternal ancestry included her uncle Sir Jayatilaka Cudah Ratwatte, the first person from Kandy to receive a British knighthood, as well as courtiers serving Sinhalese monarchs. One of these, Ratwatte, Dissawa of Matale, was a signatory of the 1815 Kandyan Convention. \n\nSirima was the eldest in a family of six children. She had four brothers, Barnes Jr., Seevali, Mackie, and Clifford; and one sister, Patricia, who married Colonel Edward James Divitotawela, founder of the Central Command of the Ceylon Army. The family resided at the walawwa, or colonial manor house, of Sirima's maternal grandfather Mahawalatenne, and then later at their own walawwa in Balangoda. From a young age, Sirima had access to her grandfather's vast library of literary and scientific works. She first attended a private kindergarten in Balangoda, moved briefly in 1923 to the primary classes of Ferguson High School in Ratnapura, and was then sent to boarding school at St Bridget's Convent, Colombo. Though her education was in the Catholic school system, Sirima remained a practicing Buddhist throughout her life and was fluent in both English and Sinhala.\n\nAfter completing her schooling at age 19, Sirima Ratwatte became involved in social work, distributing food and medicine to jungle villages, organizing clinics and helping create rural industry to improve the living standards of village women. She became the treasurer of the Social Service League, serving in that capacity until 1940. Over the next six years, she lived with her parents while they arranged her marriage. After rejecting two suitors – a relative, and the son of the first family of Ceylon – Ratwatte's parents were contacted by a matchmaker who proposed a union with Solomon West Ridgeway Dias (S.W.R.D.) Bandaranaike, an Oxford-educated lawyer-turned-politician, who was at the time Minister of Local Administration in the State Council of Ceylon. Initially, S.W.R.D. Bandaranaike was not considered to be from an \"acceptable\" family, as the Ratwattes were an aristocratic Kandyan family, which had inherited their service to the traditional royal family, while the Bandaranaikes were a wealthy family from the low-country, which had been in service of the colonial rulers for centuries. Astrologers reported their horoscopes were compatible, the benefits of uniting the families was weighed, and approval was given by the Ratwatte family. The couple, who had previously met, were in agreement with the choice.\n\nOn 2 October 1940, Ratwatte and Bandaranaike married at the Mahawelatenne Walawwa in what was dubbed \"the wedding of the century\" by the press for its grandeur. The newly married couple moved into \"Wendtworth\" in Colombo's Guildford Crescent, which they rented from Lionel Wendt. Their daughters, Sunethra (1943) and Chandrika (1945), were born at \"Wendtworth\" where the family lived until 1946, when S.W.R.D.'s father bought them a mansion known as \"Tintagel\" at Rosmead Place in Colombo. From this point onward, the family lived part of the year at \"Tintagel\" and part of the year at S.W.R.D.'s ancestral manor, Horagolla Walawwa. A son, Anura was born at \"Tintagel\" in 1949. Over the next 20 years, Sirima Bandaranaike devoted most of her time to raising her family and playing hostess to her husband's many political acquaintances. All three of Bandarnaike's children were educated abroad. Sunetra studied at Oxford, Chandrika at the University of Paris, and Anura at the University of London. All would later return and serve in Sri Lanka's government. \n\nIn 1941 Bandaranaike joined the \"Lanka Mahila Samiti\", the country's largest women's voluntary organization. She participated in many of the social projects initiated byr the \"Mahila Samiti\" for the empowerment of rural women and disaster relief. One of her first projects was an agricultural programme to meet food production shortages. Her first office, as secretary of the organization, involved meeting with farming experts to develop new methods for producing yields of rice crops. Over time, Bandaranaike served as the treasurer, vice president, and eventually president of \"Mahila Samiti\", focusing on issues of girl's education, women's political rights, and family planning. She was also a member of the All Ceylon Buddhist Women's Association, the Cancer Society, the Ceylon National Association for the Prevention of Tuberculosis, and the Nurses Welfare Association.\n\nBandaranaike often accompanied S.W.R.D. on official trips, both locally and abroad. She and her husband were both present after the psychiatric hospital in Angoda was bombed by the Japanese during the Easter Sunday Raid in 1942, killing many. As Ceylon moved toward self-governing status in 1947, S.W.R.D. became more active in the nationalist movement. He ran for – and was elected to – the House of Representatives from the Attanagalla Electoral District. He was appointed Minister of Health and served as Leader of the House, but became increasingly frustrated with the inner workings and policies of the United National Party. Though he did not encourage Bandaranaike to engage on political topics and was dismissive of her in front of colleagues, S.W.R.D. came to respect her judgment. In 1951, she persuaded him to resign from the United National Party and establish the Sri Lanka Freedom Party (Freedom Party, aka SLFP). Bandaranaike campaigned in S.W.R.D.'s Atthanagalla constituency during the 1952 parliamentary election, while he travelled around the country to garner support. Though the Freedom Party won only nine seats during that election, S.W.R.D. was elected to Parliament and became Leader of the Opposition.\n\nWhen fresh elections were called in 1956 by Prime Minister Sir John Kotelawala, S.W.R.D. sensed an opportunity and formed the Mahajana Eksath Peramuna (MEP), a broad four-party coalition, to contest the 1956 elections. Bandaranaike once again campaigned for her husband in Atthanagalla, in her home town of Balangoda, and in Ratnapura for the Freedom Party. The Mahajana Eksath Peramuna won a landslide victory and S.W.R.D. became the Prime Minister. While on a state visit to Malaysia on its Independence in 1957, the couple had to cut short their stay when they received news that Bandaranaike's father was gravely ill following a heart attack. He died two weeks after their hasty return.\n\nBandaranaike was at home in Rosmead Place on the morning of 25 September 1959, when S.W.R.D. was shot multiple times by a Buddhist monk, disgruntled over what he believed to be lack of support for traditional medicine. Bandaranaike accompanied her husband to hospital where he succumbed to his wounds the following day. In the political chaos that followed under the caretaker government of Wijeyananda Dahanayake, many cabinet ministers were removed, and some were arrested and tried for the assassination. The Mahajana Eksath Peramuna coalition collapsed without S.W.R.D.'s influence, and elections were called for March 1960 to fill the seat for the Attanagalla constituency. Bandaranaike reluctantly agreed to run as an independent candidate, but before the election could be held, Parliament was dissolved, and she decided not to contest the seat. When the election was held in March 1960, the United National Party won a four-seat majority over the Sri Lanka Freedom Party. Dudley Senanayake, the new Prime Minister, was defeated within a month in a vote of confidence and a second general election was called for July 1960.\n\nIn May 1960, Bandaranaike was unanimously elected party president by the executive committee of the Freedom Party, although at the time she was still undecided about running in the July election. Disavowing former party ties with Communists and Trotskyists, by early June she was campaigning with promises to carry forward the policies of her husband – in particular, establishing a republic, enacting a law to establish Sinhalese as the official language of the country, and recognizing the predominance of Buddhism, though tolerating the estate Tamils use of their own language and Hindu faith. Though there had been Tamil populations in the country for centuries, the majority of the estate Tamils had been brought to Ceylon from India by the British colonisers as plantation workers. Many Ceylonese viewed them as temporary immigrants, even though they had lived for generations in Ceylon. With Ceylon's independence, the Citizenship Act of 1948 excluded these Indian Tamils from citizenship, making them stateless. S.W.R.D.'s policy toward the stateless Tamils had been moderate, granting some citizenship and allowing productive workers to remain. His successor, Dudley Senanayake, was the first to recommend compulsory repatriation for the population. Bandaranaike toured the country and made emotional speeches, frequently bursting into tears as she pledged herself to continue her late husband's policies. Her actions earned her the title \"The Weeping Widow\" from her opponents.\n\nOn 21 July 1960, following a landslide victory for the Freedom Party, Bandaranaike was sworn in as the first female Prime Minister in the world, as well as Minister of Defence and External Affairs. As she was not an elected member of parliament at the time, but leader of the party holding the majority in parliament, the constitution required her to become a member of Parliament within three months if she was to continue holding office as Prime Minister. To make a place for her, Manameldura Piyadasa de Zoysa resigned his seat in the Senate. On 5 August 1960, Governor General Goonetilleke appointed Bandaranaike to the Senate of Ceylon, the upper house of Parliament. Initially, she struggled to navigate the issues facing the country, relying on her cabinet member and nephew, Felix Dias Bandaranaike. Opponents made dismissive comments about her \"kitchen cabinet\": she would continue to face similar sexism while in office. \n\nTo further her husband's policy of nationalizing key sectors of the economy, Bandaranaike established a corporation with public-private shareholders, taking control of seven newspapers. She nationalized banking, foreign trade, and insurance, as well as the petroleum industry. In taking over the Bank of Ceylon and establishing branches of the newly created People's Bank, Bandaranaike aimed to provide services to communities with no previous banking facilities, spurring local business development. In December 1960, Bandaranaike nationalized all the parochial schools that were receiving state funding. In doing so she curtailed the influence of the Catholic minority, who tended to be members of the economic and political elite, and extended the influence of Buddhist groups. In January 1961, Bandaranaike implemented a law making Sinhalese the official language, replacing English. This action caused wide discontent among the more than two million Tamil-speakers. Urged on by members of the Federal Party, a campaign of civil disobedience began in the provinces with Tamil majorities. Bandaranaike's response was to declare a state of emergency and send in troops to restore peace. Beginning in 1961, trade unions began a series of strikes in protest to high inflation and taxes. One such strike immobilized the transport system, motivating Bandaranaike to nationalize the transport board. \n\nIn January 1962, conflicts erupted between the established elites: the predominantly right-wing Westernized urban Christians – including large contingents of Burghers and Tamils – and the emerging native elite, who were predominantly leftist Sinhala-speaking Buddhists. The changes caused by Bandaranaike's policies created an immediate shift away from the Anglophilic class system, power structures, and governance, significantly influencing the composition of the officer corps of the civil service, armed forces, and the police. Some military officers plotted a coup d'état, which included plans to detain Bandaranaike and her cabinet members at the Army Headquarters. When the police official Stanley Senanayake was taken into the confidence of the coup leadership, he rushed to Temple Trees to inform Bandaranaike and other government and party officials. Immediately calling all service commanders and junior officers to an emergency meeting at the official residence, Felix Dias Bandaranaike and members of Committee of Imperial Defence (CID) began questioning the military personnel and uncovered the plot. Because the coup was aborted before it began, the trial process for the 24 accused conspirators was lengthy and complex. The retroactive \"Criminal Law Special Provision Act of 1962\", which allowed consideration of hearsay evidence, was passed to aid in the conviction of the plotters. Though rumours circulated against Sir Oliver Goonatillake, the governor general, there was no real evidence against him and therefore no means of prosecuting him. He was neither \"removed from office nor did he resign\". He agreed to answer questions about his suspected involvement once he was replaced. In February William Gopallawa was appointed Governor General. Goonatillake was escorted to the airport, left Ceylon, and went into voluntary exile.\n\nIn an attempt to balance East-West interests and maintain neutrality, Bandaranaike strengthened the country's relationship with China, while eliminating ties with Israel. She worked to maintain good relationships with both India and Russia, while keeping ties to British interests through the export of tea and supporting links with the World Bank. Condemning South Africa's apartheid policy, Bandaranaike appointed ambassadors to and sought relationships with other African nations. In 1961, she attended both the Commonwealth Prime Ministers' Conference in London and the Conference on Non-Aligned Nations in Belgrade, Yugoslavia. She was a key player in reducing tensions between India and China after their 1962 border dispute erupted into the Sino-Indian War. In November and December of that year, Bandaranaike called conferences in Colombo with delegates from Burma, Cambodia, Ceylon, Ghana and the United Arab Republic to discuss the dispute. She then travelled with Ghanaian Justice Minister Kofi Ofori-Atta to India and Peking, China in an attempt to broker peace. In January 1963, Bandaranaike and Orofi-Atta were rewarded in New Delhi, when Jawaharlal Nehru, the Indian Prime Minister, agreed to make a motion in the Indian Parliament recommending the settlement Bandaranaike had advocated for. \n\nAt home, difficulties were mounting. Despite her success abroad, Bandaranaike was criticized for her ties with China and lack of economic development policies. Tensions were still high over the government's apparent favouritism of Sinhala-speaking Ceylonese Buddhists. The import-export imbalance, compounded by inflation, was impacting the buying power of middle- and lower-class citizens. In the mid-year by-election, although Bandaranaike held a majority, the United National Party made gains, indicating that her support was slipping. Lack of support for austerity measures, specifically the inability to import adequate rice – the main dietary staple – caused the resignation of Minister Felix Dias Bandaranaike. Other cabinet ministers were reassigned in an attempt to stem the drift toward Soviet trade partnerships, which had gained ground after the creation of the Ceylon Petroleum Corporation. The Petroleum Corporation had been launched in 1961 to bypass the monopolistic pricing imposed on Middle Eastern oil imports, allowing Ceylon to import oil from the United Arab Republic and the Soviet Union. Some of the storage facilities of western oil operatives were co-opted with a compensation agreement, but continuing disputes over non-payment resulted in suspension of foreign aid from the United States in February 1963. In reaction to the suspension of aid, the Parliament passed the \"Ceylon Petroleum Corporation Amendment Act\" nationalizing all distribution, import-export, sales and supply of most oil products in the country, from January 1964. \n\nAlso in 1964, Bandaranaike's government abolished the independent Ceylon Civil Service and replaced it with the Ceylon Administrative Service, which was subject to government influence. When the United Left Front coalition between the Communist, Revolutionary Socialist and Trotskyist Parties was formed in late 1963, Bandaranaike moved left to try to gain their support. In February 1964, Chinese Premier Zhou Enlai visited Bandaranaike in Ceylon with offers of aid, gifts of rice and textiles, and discussions to extend trade. The two also discussed the Sino-Indian border dispute and nuclear disarmament. The ties with China were attractive, as Bandaranaike's recent formal recognition of East Germany had eliminated incoming aid from West Germany and her nationalization of the insurance industry had impacted her relationships with Australia, Britain and Canada. In preparation for the second Non-Aligned Conference, Bandaranaike hosted Presidents Tito and Nassar in Colombo in March 1964, but continued domestic unrest caused her to suspend parliamentary sessions until July. In the interim, she entered into a coalition with the United Left Front and was able to shore up her majority, though only by a margin of three seats. \n\nIn September 1964, Bandaranaike led a delegation to India to discuss the repatriation of the 975,000 stateless Tamils residing in Ceylon. Along with Indian Prime Minister Lal Bahadur Shastri, she ironed out the terms of the Srimavo-Shastri Pact, a landmark agreement for the foreign policy of both nations. Under the agreement, Ceylon was to grant citizenship to 300,000 of the Tamils and their descendants while India was to repatriate 525,000 stateless Tamils. During the 15 years allotted to complete their obligations, the parties agreed to negotiate terms for the remaining 150,000. In October, Bandaranaike attended and co-sponsored the Non-Aligned Conference held in Cairo. In December 1964, her attempt to further nationalize the country's newspapers resulted in a campaign to remove her from office. She lost a vote of confidence by one vote, dissolved the Parliament, and called for new elections. Her political coalition was defeated in the 1965 elections, ending her first term as Prime Minister.\n\nIn the 1965 elections, Bandaranaike won a seat in the House of Representatives from the Attanagalla Electoral District. With her party gaining 41 seats, she became the Leader of the Opposition, the first woman ever to hold the post. Dudley Senanayake was sworn in as Prime Minister on 25 March 1965. Soon after, Bandaranaike's position as a member of parliament was challenged, when allegations were made that she had accepted a bribe, in the form of a car, while in office. A committee was appointed to investigate and she was later cleared of the charge. During her five year term in the opposition, she maintained her alliance with leftist parties. Of the seven by-elections held between November 1966 and April 1967, six were won by the opposition under Bandaranaike's leadership. Continued inflation, trade imbalance, unemployment, and the failure of expected foreign aid to materialize led to widespread discontent. This was further fueled by austerity measures, which reduced the weekly rice stipend. By 1969, Bandaranaike was actively campaigning to return to power. Among other pledges, she promised to nationalize foreign banks and the import-export industry, to establish watchgroups for monitoring business and government corruption, to return to a foreign policy which leaned away from \"imperialist\" partners, and to hold a Constituent Assembly charged with drafting a new Constitution.\n\nBandaranaike regained power after the United Front coalition between the Communist Party, the Lanka Sama Samaja Party and her own Freedom Party won the 1970 elections with a large majority in May 1970. By July, she had convened a Constitutional Assembly to replace the British-drafted constitution with one drafted by the Ceylonese. She introduced policies requiring that permanent secretaries in the government ministries have expertise in their division. For example, those serving in the Ministry of Housing had to be trained engineers, and those serving in the Ministry of Health, medical practitioners. All government employees were allowed to join Workers Councils and at the local level, she established People's Committees to allow input from the population at large on government administration. The changes were intended to remove elements of British colonization and foreign influence from the country's institutions. \n\nFacing budget deficits of $195 million – caused by rising energy and food-importation costs and declining revenue from coconut, rubber and tea exports – Bandaranaike attempted to centralize the economy and implement price controls. Pressed by the leftist members of her coalition to nationalize the foreign banks of British, Indian and Pakistani origin, she realized that doing so would impact the need for credit. As she had in her previous regime, she tried to balance the flow of foreign assistance from both capitalist and communist partners. In September 1970, Bandaranaike attended the third Non-Aligned Conference in Lusaka, Zambia. That month, she also travelled to Paris and London to discuss international trade. Ordering representatives of The Asia Foundation and the Peace Corps to leave the country, Bandaranaike began re-evaluating trade agreements and proposals that had been negotiated by her predecessor. She announced that her government would not recognize Israel, until the country peacefully settled its problem with its Arab neighbours. She officially granted recognition to East Germany, North Korea, North Vietnam, and the National Liberation Front of South Vietnam. Bandaranaike opposed the development of an Anglo-US communications centre in the Indian Ocean, maintaining that the area should be a \"neutral, nuclear-free zone\". In December, the Business Undertaking Acquisition Act was passed, allowing the state to nationalize any business with more than 100 employees. Ostensibly, the move aimed to reduce foreign control of key tea and rubber production, but it stunted both domestic and foreign investment in industry and development. \n\nDespite Bandaranaike's efforts to address the country's economic problems, unemployment and inflation remained unchecked. After just 16 months in power, Bandaranaike's government was almost toppled by the 1971 Janatha Vimukthi Peramuna Insurrection of left-wing youths. Though aware of the militant stance of the Janatha Vimukthi Peramuna (People's Liberation Front), Bandaranaike's administration initially failed to recognize them as an imminent threat, dismissing them as idealists. On 6 March, militants attacked the U.S. Embassy in Colombo, leading to the declaration of a state of emergency on 17 March. In early April, attacks on police stations evidenced a well-planned insurgency which Ceylon's small army was ill-equipped to handle. Calling on its allies for assistance, the government was saved largely because of Bandaranaike's neutral foreign policy. The Soviet Union sent aircraft to support the Ceylonese government; arms and equipment came from Britain, the United Arab Republic, the United States and Yugoslavia; medical supplies were provided by East and West Germany, Norway and Poland; patrol boats were sent from India; and both India and Pakistan sent troops. On 1 May, Bandaranaike suspended government offensives and offered an amnesty, which resulted in thousands of surrenders. The following month a second amnesty was offered. Bandaranaike established a National Committee of Reconstruction to re-establish civil authority and provide a strategic plan for dealing with those captured or surrendered insurgents. One of the Bandaranaike's first actions after the conflict was to expel North Korean diplomats, as she suspected they had fomented the radical discontent. The saying \"\"She was the only man in her cabinet\" –\" attributed to her political opponents in the 1960s – resurfaced during the height of the insurgency, as Bandaranaike proved that she had become a \"formidable political force\".\n\nIn May 1972, the Dominion of Ceylon was replaced by the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka and the new Constitution was ratified. Though the country remained within the Commonwealth of Nations, Queen Elizabeth II, was no longer recognized as its sovereign. Under its terms, the Senate, suspended since 1971, was officially abolished and the new unicameral National State Assembly was created, combining the powers of the executive, judicial and legislative branches in one authority. The constitution recognized the supremacy of Buddhism, though it guaranteed equal protection to Buddhism, Christianity, Hinduism, and Islam. It failed to provide a charter of inalienable rights, recognized Sinhalese as the only official language, and contained no \"elements of federalism\". The new constitution also extended Bandaranaike's term by two years, resetting the mandated five-year term of the Prime Minister to the coincide with the creation of the republic. These limits caused concern for various sectors of the population, specifically those who were uneasy about authoritarian rule, and the Tamil-speaking population. Before the month was out, the discontent escalated before leading to the passage of the Justices Commission Bill, establishing separate tribunals to deal with the imprisoned insurgents from the previous year. Those in opposition to the tribunals argued that they were a violation of the principals of human rights. By July, sporadic incidents of violence were resurfacing, and by the end of the year, a second wave of revolt was anticipated. Widespread unemployment fuelled the public's growing disillusionment with the government, in spite of land redistribution programmes enacted to establish farming cooperatives and limit the size of privately held lands. \n\nThe 1973 oil crisis had a traumatic effect on the Sri Lankan economy. Still dependent on foreign assistance, goods and monetary aid from Australia, Canada, China, Denmark, Hungary, and the World Bank, Bandaranaike eased the austerity programmes that limited importation of consumer goods. The United States terminated aid grants, which required no repayment, and changed to a policy of providing foreign loans. Devaluation of the Sri Lankan currency, coupled with inflation and high taxes, slowed economic growth, consequently creating cyclical pressure to address deficits with even higher taxes and austerity measures. Uncontrolled inflation between 1973 and 1974 led to economic uncertainty and public dissatisfaction. In 1974, Bandaranaike forced the shut-down of the last independent newspaper group, \"The Sun\", believing their criticism was fuelling unrest. Fissures appeared in the United Front coalition, largely resulting from the Lanka Sama Samaja Party's continued influence on trade unions and threats of strike actions throughout 1974 and 1975. When newly confiscated estates were placed under the Ministry of Agriculture and Lands, controlled by the Lanka Sama Samaja Party, fears that they would unionize plantation workers led Bandaranaike to oust them from the government coalition. \n\nIn recognition of International Women's Year in 1975, Bandaranaike created an agency to focus on women's issues, which would later become the Ministry of Women and Child Affairs. She appointed the first woman to serve in the Sri Lankan Cabinet, Siva Obeyesekere, first as First State Secretary for Health and later as Minister of Health. She was feted at the UN World Conference on Women hosted in Mexico City, attending as the only woman Prime Minister elected in her own right. Bandaranaike stepped into the one-year term of chair at the 5th Conference of the Non-Aligned Nations in 1976, hosting the meeting in Colombo. Despite her high regard internationally, she continued to struggle domestically under allegations of corruption and nepotism, while the economy continued to decline. In their struggle for recognition, discontented Tamils turned to separatism. In May 1976, the Vaddukoddai Resolution was adopted by the Tamil United Liberation Front, calling for independent statehood and sovereign autonomy. In the 1977 general elections, the United Front was soundly defeated, winning only six seats.\n\nBandaranaike retained her parliamentary seat in Atthanagalla in the 1977 general elections. In November 1977, a petition challenging her position as a member of parliament was dismissed by the Colombo High Court. In 1978, a new constitution was ratified which replaced the British-style parliamentary system with a French-style presidential system. Under the constitution, the executive or President, was elected by a vote of the people to serve a six-year term. The president then chose a Prime Minister to preside over the Cabinet, who was confirmed by the legislature. Providing a declaration of fundamental rights, guaranteeing the equality of citizens for the first time, it also recognized Tamil as a national language, though the administrative language remained Sinhala. Though aimed at appeasing Tamil separatists, the provisions did not stop the violence between Tamils and Sinhalese, resulting in the passage of the 1979 Prevention of Terrorism Act.\n\nIn 1980, a Special Presidential Commission was appointed by President J. R. Jayawardene to investigate allegations against Bandaranaike for abuses of power during her tenure as Prime Minister. Following the submission of the report to Jayawardene, the United National Party government adopted a motion in parliament on 16 October 1980 to strip Bandaranaike and her nephew, Felix Dias Bandaranaike – who was convicted of corruption – of their civil liberties for a period of seven years. She was expelled from parliament, but maintained her role as party leader. The motion passed by 139 votes in favour and 18 against, easily meeting the required two-thirds threshold. Despite being its head, Bandaranaike was unable to campaign for the Freedom Party. As a result, her son, Anura served as the parliamentary party leader. Under Anura the Freedom Party moved to the right, and Bandaranaike's daughter, Chandrika, withdrew, forming the Sri Lanka People's Party with her husband, Vijaya Kumaratunga. The goals of the new party were related to rapprochement with the Tamils.\n\nFrom 1980, conflict with the separatists of various competing groups, including the Tamil Tigers, People's Liberation Organisation of Tamil Eelam, Tamil Eelam Liberation Army, and the Tamil Eelam Liberation Organization became more frequent and increasingly violent. During local election campaigning in 1981, Tamil extremists assassinated Arumugam Thiagarajah, the United National Party candidate. Boycotting the 1982 presidential elections was called for by the Tamil United Liberation Front Party. Insurgents supported the ban, as cooperation with the government legitimized its policies and conflicted with the desire for attaining an independent Tamil state. In 1983 insurgent Tamils ambushed an army patrol, killing thirteen soldiers. Retaliatory violence by Sinhalese mobs, sparked riots against non-insurgent Tamils and their property which spread from Colombo throughout the country. \n\nJayewardene's move towards free markets and a focus on economic growth hurt Tamil farmers in the north by removing trade protections. Similarly, the policies negatively impacted not only southern Sinhalese businesses facing competition from Indian markets, but also the urban poor, whose food subsidies were greatly reduced. Massive government spending for economic development created budget deficits and inflation, alarming the World Bank and International Monetary Fund administrators. In turn, donor agencies reduced aid to persuade the government to control spending. Acceleration of the Mahaweli Development programme increased employment and stabilized the food supply, also reducing dependence on foreign energy supplies with the completion of four hydropower-generating facilities. The focus on building the economy and infrastructure failed to address social issues. For example, the rural housing initiative – which built some 100,000 new homes by 1984 – polarized communities because housing was distributed by political alliance rather than need. Privatization of industry, after 1982, created significant gaps between the rich and poor and inflation returned, making goods hard to procure and lowering the standard of living.\n\nIn January 1986, Bandaranaike's civil rights were restored by a presidential decree issued by Jayewardene. The conflict between the government and the separatists, which had escalated since 1983, morphed into a Civil War by 1987. Jayewardene showed little sympathy for the issues of concern to the Tamils and instead blamed the unrest on left-wing factions plotting a government overthrow. Breakdowns in negotiations with the rebels eventually led Jayewardene to authorize the intervention of the Indian Government. Signed in 1987, \"The Indo-Sri Lanka Accord\", laid out terms of the truce between the Sri Lankan Government and the rebels, authorizing the Indian Peace Keeping Force to occupy the country in an attempt to promote disarmament. Bandaranaike and the Freedom Party opposed the introduction of Indian troops, believing the government had betrayed its own people by allowing India to intervene on behalf of the Tamils. As a reaction to state-sanctioned violence and their desire for nationalist focus, the Janatha Vimukthi Peramuna militants re-emerged in the south. Against this backdrop, Bandaranaike decided to run in the 1988 presidential election. She was narrowly defeated by Ranasinghe Premadasa who succeeded Jayewardene as President.\n\nOn 6 February 1989, while campaigning for the Freedom Party in the 1989 general election, Bandaranaike survived a bombing attack. Though she was unscathed, one of her aides suffered leg injuries. In the final results on the 19th, the Freedom Party was defeated by the United National Party under Ranasinghe Premadasa, but gained 67 seats, sufficient for Bandaranaike to take up the post of Leader of the Opposition for a second term. She was successfully re-elected to parliament in the Gampaha electoral district. The same year, the government crushed the Janatha Vimukthi Peramuna rebels, killing some 30,000 to 70,000 of them, rather than opting for trials or imprisonment as Bandaranaike had done in 1971. \n\nIn 1990, when the 13-month ceasefire was broken by the Tamil Tigers, after other militias surrendered their weapons, the government decided to break off negotiations with the Tigers and employ a military solution. Anura supported the move, but his mother, Bandaranaike, spoke against the plan. When emergency powers were granted by the president, she demanded that the state of emergency be lifted, accusing the government of human rights abuses. During her tenure as opposition leader, she supported the impeachment of Premadasa in 1991, which was led by senior United National Party members such as Lalith Athulathmudali and Gamini Dissanayake. The impeachment failed, as Premadasa adjourned Parliament and the Speaker M. H. Mohamed dismissed the motion for impeachment, stating there were not enough signatures supporting it. Bandaranaike's daughter Chandrika Kumaratunga, who had been living in self-imposed exile in London since 1988, when her husband had been assassinated, returned to Sri Lanka and rejoined the Freedom Party in 1991. In the same year, Bandaranaike, who was increasingly impaired by arthritis, suffered a stroke.\n\nIn 1992, Premadasa Udugampola, head of the Bureau of Special Operations, was forced to retire after an international outcry over human rights abuse surfaced. Udugampola provided a written statement that the death squads used against rebels had been backed by the government. Bandaranaike came out in support of his evidence, but Udugampola was charged for cultivating public hostility against the government. When President Premadasa was assassinated by a suicide bomber on 1 May 1993, his Prime Minister Dingiri Banda Wijetunga was sworn as acting president and nominated to complete the president's unexpired term until 2 January 1995. Due to her failing health, Bandaranaike chose not to run for the presidency, but to continue as opposition leader, and Wijetunga ran unopposed. The members of Parliament were required to vote on the succession within a month. \n\nWijetunga convinced Bandaranaike's son, Anura, to defect to the United National Party and rewarded him with an appointment as Minister of Higher Education. His defection left Bandaranaike and Kumaratunga in charge of the Freedom Party. Due to her mother's declining health, Kumaratunga led the formation of a new coalition, the People's Alliance (PA), to contest the 1993 provincial election in the Western Province of Sri Lanka in May. The alliance won a landslide victory, and Kumaratunga was appointed as the Chief Minister in 1993. Subsequently the coalition led by Kumaratunga also won the southern provincial council elections. Kumaratunga led the People's Alliance campaign for the 1994 parliamentary election, as her mother was recovering from surgery. The Alliance won a decisive victory, and Bandaranaike announced that Kumaratunga would become Prime Minister. By this time Kumaratunga had also succeeded her as the leader of the Freedom Party. Mentally alert but suffering from a foot ailment and complications from diabetes, Bandaranaike was confined to a wheel chair. Having been re-elected to parliament, she was appointed to her daughter's cabinet as a Minister without Portfolio at the swearing-in ceremony held on 19 August 1994.\n\nIn the presidential election that followed in November, Kumaratunga's main political rival, Gamini Dissanayake, was assassinated two weeks before the election. His widow, Srima Dissanayake, was chosen as the United National Party's presidential candidate. Kumaratunga's lead was predicted to be around a million votes even before the assassination: she won the election by a wide margin. Becoming the first female President of Sri Lanka, Kumaratunga appointed her mother as prime minister, which under the terms of the 1978 constitution meant Bandaranaike was responsible for defence and foreign affairs. Though the office of prime minister had become mainly a ceremonial post, Bandaranaike's influence in the Freedom Party remained strong. While they agreed on policy, Kumaratunga and Bandaranaike differed on leadership style. By 2000, Kumaratunga wanted a younger prime minister, and Bandaranaike, citing health reasons, stepped down in August 2000.\n\nBandaranaike died on 10 October 2000 of a heart attack at Kadawatha, as she was heading home to Colombo. She had been casting her vote in the parliamentary election, which had been held that day. Sri Lanka declared two days of national mourning, and state radio stations abandoned their regular programming to play funereal laments. Bandaranaike's remains lay in state in the parliament, and her funeral subsequently took place at Horagolla where she was interned in the mausoleum, Horagolla Bandaranaike Samadhi, originally built for her husband.\n\nAt a time when there were few options open to women beyond the conventional role of wife and mother, she helped raise the global perception of women's capabilities. In addition to her own contributions to Sri Lanka, her children became involved in the development of the country. All three children held nationally prominent positions; in addition to Anura and Chandrika's roles in government, her daughter Sunetra worked as her mother's political secretary in the 1970s and later became a noted philanthropist. The Bandaranaike marriage helped break down social barriers in Sri Lanka over the years, through the Socialist policies they enacted.\n\nDuring her three terms in office, Bandaranaike led the country to break free of its colonial past, forming a republic. Implementing socialist policies during the Cold War, she attempted to nationalize key sectors of the economy and undertake land reforms to benefit the native population, desiring to end the political favouratism enjoyed by the Western-educated elites. An overriding goal of her policies was to reduce the ethnic and socio-economic disparities in the country, though her failure to address adequately the needs of the Tamil population led to decades of strife and violence in the country. As one of the founders of the Non-Aligned Movement, Bandaranaike navigated the divided world stage and successfully brought Sri Lanka to prominence among those nations which strove to remain neutral to the influence of the superpowers. As an agent of peace, she strove to forge lasting alliances between the countries in the Global South and worked closely with world leaders to resolve issues diplomatically, opposing nuclear expansion.\n\nIn 2010, on the 50th anniversary of Bandaranaike's election as the world's first female prime minister, former president Chandrika Kumarathunga criticized the Sri Lankan government for failing to recognize her mother's legacy. Rosy Senanayake, an opposition MP, told the press that gender equality in Sri Lankan politics had not made significant strides, despite Bandaranaike's early rise to power; only 4.5 per cent of parliamentarians were women. Senanayake had earlier called for a \"special quota\" to achieve better gender representation. By 2017, only 5.7 per cent of parliamentary positions and 1.9 per cent of local offices were held by women. A 2016 bill was passed that reserved 25 per cent of all local electoral seats for women, with the additional aim of making it more feasible for women to run for higher political positions. In February 2018, local elections saw a record-breaking 17,000 women run for office across the country.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "149410", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=149410", "title": "Squire Bancroft", "text": "Squire Bancroft\n\nSir Squire Bancroft (14 May 1841 – 19 April 1926), born Squire White Butterfield, was an English actor-manager. He and his wife Effie Bancroft are considered to have instigated a new form of drama known as 'drawing-room comedy' or 'cup and saucer drama', owing to the realism of their stage sets.\n\nBancroft was born in Rotherhithe, London. His first appearance on the stage was in 1861 at Birmingham, and he played in the provinces with success for several years. His first London appearance was in 1865 as Jack Crawley in J. P. Wooler's \"A Winning Hazard\" at the Prince of Wales's Theatre off Tottenham Court Road. This theatre was managed by Henry Byron and Effie Marie Wilton, whom Bancroft married in December 1867. After their marriage the couple became joint managers of the theatre.\n\nMr and Mrs Bancroft produced and starred in all the Thomas William Robertson comedies beginning in 1865: \"Society\" (1865), \"Ours\" (1866), \"Caste\" (1867), \"Play\" (1868), \"School\" (1869) and \"M.P.\" (1870), and, after Robertson's death, in revivals of the old comedies, for which they surrounded themselves with an admired company. Together, Robertson and the Bancrofts are considered to have instigated a new form of drama known as \"drawing-room comedy\" or \"cup and saucer drama\". The Bancrofts gave Robertson an unprecedented amount of directorial control over his plays, which was a key step to institutionalizing the power that directors wield in the theatre today.\n\nThe Bancroft management at the Prince of Wales's Theatre constituted a new era in the development of the English stage and had the effect of reviving the London interest in modern drama. They were also responsible for making fashionable the \"box set\", which Lucia Elizabeth Vestris had first used at the Olympic Theatre in the 1830s – this consisted of rooms on stage which were dressed with sofas, curtains, chairs, and carpets on the stage floor. They also provided their actors with salaries and wardrobes. Also, the Bancrofts redesigned their theatre to suit the increasingly upscale audience: \"The cheap benches near the stage, where the rowdiest elements of the audience used to sit were replaced by comfortable padded seats, carpets were laid in the aisles, and the pit was renamed the stalls.\"\n\nOther plays they premiered or produced there were W. S. Gilbert's \"Allow Me To Explain\" (1867) and his romantic comedy tribute to Robertson, \"Sweethearts\" (1874), as well as \"Tame Cats\" (1868), Lytton's \"Money\" (1872), \"The School for Scandal\" (1874), Boucicault's \"London Assurance\" (1877), and \"Diplomacy\" (1878), an adaptation of Sardou's \"Dora\" by Clement Scott and B. C. Stephenson.\n\nIn the 1870s and 1880s, in addition to his management responsibilities, Bancroft continued to play leading roles in numerous contemporary plays, as well as in works by Shakespeare and Richard Brinsley Sheridan's and other classic plays, often opposite his wife. In 1879, the Bancrofts moved to the Haymarket Theatre, where they produced or starred in a revival of \"Money\", and in Sardou's \"Odette\" (for which they engaged Madame Helena Modjeska), \"Fedora\", and Pinero's \"Lords and Commons\", with revivals of previous successes.\n\nHaving made a considerable fortune, they retired from management in 1885, but Bancroft continued to act until 1918. Bancroft was knighted in 1897. Between 1917, and his death in 1926, Bancroft maintained rooms at the fashionable Albany, in Piccadilly. Both he and his wife are buried in Brompton Cemetery.\n\nBancroft wrote two books, and in collaboration with his wife, he wrote two volumes of reminiscences called \"Mr. and Mrs. Bancroft On and Off the Stage, Written by Themselves\" (London, 1888) and \"The Bancrofts: Recollections of Sixty Years\" (London: Dutton and Co., 1909).\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1126811", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1126811", "title": "Theo van Gogh (film director)", "text": "Theo van Gogh (film director)\n\nTheodoor \"Theo\" van Gogh (; 23 July 1957 – 2 November 2004) was a Dutch film director, film producer, television director, television producer, television presenter, screenwriter, actor, critic and author.\n\nVan Gogh worked with the Somali-born writer and politician Ayaan Hirsi Ali to produce the short film \"Submission\" (2004), which criticized the treatment of women in Islam. It provoked outrage from the Dutch Muslim community. On 2 November 2004, van Gogh was assassinated by Mohammed Bouyeri, a Dutch-Moroccan Muslim who objected to the controversial film. The last film van Gogh had completed before his death, \"06/05\", was a fictionalized exploration of the assassination of Dutch politician Pim Fortuyn (1948–2002). It was released posthumously in December 2004, a month following van Gogh's assassination.\n\nTheo van Gogh was born on 23 July 1957 in The Hague, Netherlands, to Anneke and Johan van Gogh. His father served in the Dutch secret service ('AIVD', then called 'BVD'). He was named after his paternal uncle Theo, who was captured and executed while working as a resistance fighter during the Nazi occupation of the Netherlands during World War II. Theo van Gogh was a great-grandson of Theo van Gogh, art dealer and brother of painter Vincent van Gogh.\n\nAfter dropping out of law school at the University of Amsterdam, van Gogh became a stage manager. His self-proclaimed passion was film-making, and he made his debut as a director with the movie \"Luger\" (1981). \n\nHe was awarded a \"Gouden Kalf\" for \"Blind Date\" (1996) and \"In het belang van de staat\" (\"In the Interest of the State,\" 1997). For the latter, he also received a \"Certificate of Merit\" from the San Francisco International Film Festival. As an actor, he appeared in the film, \"De noorderlingen\" (\"The Northerners\", 1992). He made numerous films (see below), many on political themes. From the 1990s, van Gogh also worked in television.\n\nHis last book (2003) was \"Allah weet het beter\" (\"Allah Knows Best\"), in which he strongly condemned Islam. He was a well-known critic of Islam, particularly after the Iranian Revolution and the September 11 attacks. He supported the nomination of writer Ayaan Hirsi Ali for the Dutch parliament, who was elected. Born in Somalia, she had immigrated to the Netherlands to escape an arranged marriage. She became a writer and liberal (former PvdA Labour Party) politician.\n\nIn the 1980s, van Gogh became a newspaper columnist. Through the years he used his columns to express his frustration with politicians, actors, film directors, writers and other people he considered to be part of \"the establishment\". He delighted in provocation and became a controversial figure, frequently criticizing Islamic cultures. He used his website, \"De Gezonde Roker\" (\"The Healthy Smoker\"), to express harsh criticism of multicultural society. He said the Netherlands was so rife with social turmoil that it was in danger of turning into \"something Belfast-like\".\n\nWorking from a script written by Ayaan Hirsi Ali, van Gogh created the 10-minute short film \"Submission\". The movie deals with violence against women in some Islamic societies; it tells the stories, using visual shock tactics, of four abused Muslim women. The title, \"Submission\", is a translation of the word \"Islam\" into English. In the film, women's naked bodies, with texts from the Qur'an written on them in henna, in an allusion to traditional wedding rituals in some cultures, are veiled with semi-transparent shrouds as the women kneel in prayer, telling their stories as if they are speaking to Allah.\n\nIn August 2004, after the movie's broadcast on Dutch public TV, the newspaper \"De Volkskrant\" reported that the journalist Francisco van Jole had accused Hirsi Ali and van Gogh of plagiarism, saying that they had appropriated the ideas of Iranian-American video artist Shirin Neshat, whose work used Arabic text projected onto bodies.\n\nFollowing the broadcast, both van Gogh and Hirsi Ali received death threats. Van Gogh did not take the threats seriously and refused any protection. According to Hirsi Ali, he said, \"Nobody kills the village idiot\", a term he frequently used about himself.\n\nVan Gogh was a member of the Dutch Republican society \"Republikeins Genootschap\", which advocates the abolition of the Dutch monarchy. He was a friend and supporter of the controversial Dutch politician Pim Fortuyn, who was assassinated in 2002.\n\nVan Gogh was shot and stabbed by Mohammed Bouyeri while cycling to work on 2 November 2004 at about 9 o'clock in the morning. Bouyeri also injured some bystanders and left on the scene a note containing death threats to Ayaan Hirsi Ali, who went into hiding. It also threatened Western countries and Jews, and referred to ideologies of the Egyptian organization Takfir wal-Hijra.\n\nBouyeri, a 26-year-old Dutch-Moroccan citizen, was apprehended by police after a chase. Authorities alleged that he had terrorist ties with the Dutch Islamist Hofstad Network. He was charged with the attempted murder of several police officers and bystanders, illegal possession of a firearm, and conspiring to murder others, including Hirsi Ali. He was convicted at trial on 26 July 2005 and sentenced to life in prison with no chance of parole.\n\nThe murder sparked outrage and grief throughout the Netherlands. Flowers, notes, drawings and other expressions of mourning were left at the scene of the murder.\n\nThe cremation ceremony took place on 9 November. Fearing he might not survive a planned flight to New York, Van Gogh had spoken about his funeral wishes with friends shortly before his death. Maarten van Rossem was asked by Van Gogh's relatives to speak, something he found difficult in that he wanted to avoid sounding apocalyptic. Van Gogh's father suggested that his son would have liked the media attention provoked by his murder.\n\nThe day after the murder, Dutch police arrested eight people allegedly belonging to a group later referred to as the Hofstad Network. Six detainees were Dutch-Moroccans, one was Dutch-Algerian, and one had dual Spanish-Moroccan nationality. The Dutch Complaints Bureau for Discrimination on the Internet (MDI) received many complaints about websites allegedly praising the murder and making death threats against other people.\n\nAt the same time, starting with four attempted arson attacks on mosques in the weekend of 5–7 November, there were retaliatory violent incidents against Muslims, including a bomb that exploded at a Muslim school in Eindhoven. The Dutch Monitoring Centre on Racism and Xenophobia recorded a total of 106 violent incidents in November against Muslim targets. The National Dutch Police Services Agency (KLPD) recorded 31 occasions of violence against mosques and Islamic schools between 23 November and 13 March 2005. An arson attack destroyed a Muslim primary school in Uden in December 2004. By 8 November, Christian churches were reported as targets of vandalism and arson attacks in turn. A report for the Anne Frank Foundation and the University of Leiden, accounted for a total of 174 violent incidents between 2–30 November; it said that mosques were the target of violence 47 times, and churches 13 times.\n\nThe murder widened and polarized the debate in the Netherlands about the social position of its more than one million Muslim residents. It also put the country's liberal tradition further into question, coming only two years after Pim Fortuyn's murder. In an apparent reaction against controversial statements about the Islamic, Christian, and Jewish religions—such as those van Gogh was renowned for—the Dutch Minister of Justice, Christian Democrat Piet Hein Donner, suggested Dutch blasphemy laws should either be applied more stringently or made more strict. The liberal D66 party suggested scrapping the blasphemy laws altogether.\nGeert Wilders, an Independent Dutch member of parliament, advocated a five-year halt to immigration from non-Western societies, saying: \"The Netherlands has been too tolerant to intolerant people for too long. We should not import a retarded political Islamic society into our country\".\n\nWilders and Ayaan Hirsi Ali went into hiding for several weeks. Wilders has been under the protection of bodyguards ever since, and Hirsi Ali eventually relocated to the United States.\n\nTheo van Gogh's son claims he has been attacked on several occasions by young people of Moroccan and Turkish descent, and that the police did not provide him with help or protection. The police denied receiving any report of attacks.\n\n\nIn the English-speaking world, controversy arose after Rohan Jayasekera's article on van Gogh was published in \"Index on Censorship\". The Associate Editor of the magazine said that van Gogh was a \"free-speech fundamentalist\" who had been on a \"martyrdom operation[,] roar[ing] his Muslim critics into silence with obscenities\" in an \"abuse of his right to free speech\". Describing van Gogh's film \"Submission\" as \"furiously provocative\", Jayasekera said his death was:\n\nBoth left- and right-wing commentators criticized the article. In December 2004, Nick Cohen of London's \"Observer\" wrote:\n\nCohen's account of the conversation was repudiated by the editor of the \"Index on Censorship\", who responded with a letter to \"The Observer\".\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "35015952", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35015952", "title": "William Baume", "text": "William Baume\n\nWilliam Baume (1885–1956) was a Swiss watchmaker who established the Baume & Mercier company in Geneva in 1918 with his partner, Paul Mercier.\n\nWilliam Baume was born into a notable family of watchmakers in the village of Les Bois in the Swiss Jura. His grandfather, Louis Victor Baume, and his great-uncle, Célestin Baume had founded the Frères Baume watch dealership in Les Bois in 1830. It was to become one of Switzerland’s major watch manufacturers in the 19th century, with branches in London, Geneva and Philadelphia. The Baume watch brand won distinctions at the universal expositions between 1860 and 1900, including a number of gold medals and Grand Prix for its watches. In 1892, its tourbillon chronometer set an absolute timekeeping record at the Kew Observatory trials that stood for 10 years.\n\nWilliam Baume, who took over the management of the Baume company in Les Bois in 1910, represented the third generation after his grandfather and father. He had previously completed his watchmaking apprenticeship with Mathey-Tissot at Les Ponts-de-Martel, about 30 kilometers from Les Bois between Le Locle and Neuchâtel. Mathey-Tissot, established in 1886, was specialised in complicated watches, especially minute-repeaters and precision chronographs. It was thus with this specialist background that William Baume joined the family firm in 1909, working for a year with his father until he was entrusted with the management of the company in 1910. William Baume had then just turned 25. Meanwhile the London branch of Frères Baume, run by William’s uncle, Arthur Baume, was playing a leading role in the affairs of the business. After a family row, William Baume left Les Bois in 1918, shortly after the end of World War I. He settled in Geneva with the intention of starting a watch company that would take over from the Baume firm.\n\nIn Geneva he came across his friend, Paul Mercier, whom he had met in 1912 as marketing manager of Haas of Geneva, one of the big names in Swiss watchmaking.\n\nThe two men joined forces to found Baume & Mercier in Geneva in 1918. Paul Mercier looked after the business side, while William Baume supervised the technical and watchmaking aspects. Their complementary talents ensured the quick success of the business, which relied on William Baume’s experience and the reputation of the Baume firm.\n\nAs an accomplished watchmaker and hard worker, William Baume was instrumental in qualifying Baume & Mercier watches in 1919 for the prestigious \"Poinçon de Genève\", the hallmark of the best quality Geneva watchmaking.\n\nWilliam Baume’s watchmaking competence and Paul Mercier’s business acumen enabled Baume & Mercier to prosper during the economic crises of the late 1920s. In 1935, William Baume retired from the company for health reasons, and his sons had no interest in the business. Paul Mercier, retired two years later, selling his stake to the new partner, Ernesto Ponti, a businessman from the Piedmont who had acquired a stake in Baume & Mercier in 1934. William Baume died in Geneva in 1956.\n"}
{"id": "30275245", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30275245", "title": "Yara Naoum", "text": "Yara Naoum\n\nYara Naoum (, born 1 September 1987 in Cairo, Egypt) is an Egyptian beauty queen. She is married to the Egyptian Football player Emad Moteab. She earned the title of Miss Egypt in 2008.\n"}
{"id": "42214674", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42214674", "title": "Zalman Shimon Dworkin", "text": "Zalman Shimon Dworkin\n\nZalman Shimon Dworkin was the Chief Rabbi of the Jewish community in Crown Heights, Brooklyn, and a member of the Chabad Hasidic movement.\n\nDworkin was born in 1901 in Rogachov, Belarus. He emigrated to the United States in 1958. He served as the Crown Heights Jewish community's chief rabbi until his passing in 1985. Dworkin was succeeded in this role by Yehuda Kalmen Marlow.\n\nAs Dworkin was a Chabad Chassid, his rabbinic authority was sought by the Lubavitcher Rebbe, Menachem Mendel Schneerson.\n"}
{"id": "49877381", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49877381", "title": "Úna Brennan", "text": "Úna Brennan\n\nÚna Brennan (1888–1958) was an Irish republican and feminist, active during the Easter Rising of 1916 and both the War of Independence and Civil War.\n\nBorn Anastasia Bolger in 1888 to John Bolger and Johanna Whitty, she was the eldest of six children in Coolnaboy, County Wexford. She was educated in the Loreto Convent in Enniscorthy, where she had to be a boarder living away from home.\n\nIn 1908 Brennan arranged to get a monthly column in \"The Echo\" newspaper edited by William Sears. She covered topics like Women's rights both in the home and in public life. She joined Inghinidhe na hÉireann and became the local Secretary, later she was a member of Cumann na mBan. She was also one of the first female members of the Irish Republican Brotherhood. As a supporter of the Irish Language Brennan initially changed her name to Anatás before changing it to Úna.\n\nShe married Robert Brennan on July 6, 1909. He was in the Gaelic League and Sinn Féin. He taught Irish in Wexford, Tagoat, and Castlebridge. He was a member of the Irish Republican Brotherhood and insisted they swear his wife in as well. He believed only two women were sworn in, his wife and Maud Gonne. According to Helena Molony she was a significant influence in the magazine Bean na hÉireann.\n\nDespite having a six-year-old daughter at home she was with her husband in the Athenaeum in Enniscorthy, County Wexford during the Rising. She was one of three women who raised the Tricolour on the building on Thursday, 27 April 1916 with Marion Stokes and Gretta Comerford. She then set up an emergency hospital and kitchen which she ran for the duration of the occupation. Brennan was arrested and taken to gaol in Waterford and later to Mountjoy Prison. However she was released after a few days.\n\nAfter the Rising the family moved to Dublin. Brennan was active in the Irish War of Independence, using the home as a safe house for documents and men in hiding, such as Harry Boland and Colman O'Donovan. During the Irish Civil War they were on the Anti-Treaty side and continued to shelter men, documents and dispatches.\n\nShe and her husband had three daughters, Emer, Maeve and Derry (Deirdre), as well as a son, Robert Patrick. Maeve Brennan became a well known writer. Robert Brennan was involved in politics and was sent to the USA. However the couple returned to Ireland in 1947. They lived in Rathfarnham, Dublin once Robert Brennan was Director of Broadcasting at Radio Éireann. Úna Brennan died in 1958.\n"}
