{"id": "54020151", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54020151", "title": "Agnes Bowker", "text": "Agnes Bowker\n\nAgnes Bowker (born 1540) was a British domestic servant and the alleged mother of a cat.\n\nBowker was born in Leicestershire (probably Market Harborough) to a local family in about 1541. She came to prominence when her midwife, Elizabeth Harrison, reported that she had given birth to a cat on 16 January 1569. The story caused interest as it was feared that some may see this as a portent. The idea was not dismissed even after the cat that was said to have been born was found to have food in its stomach. A pamphlet was circulated. Bowker was not married and she had tried to drown and hanging herself during her pregnancy. The rest of her life is unclear but she came from a local family and she worked in the Leicestershire area. She had visited London and seen Elizabeth I in 1566.\n\nThe report was made to the church authorities and Anthony Anderson who worked for the Archdeacon of Leicester. He created a life-size drawing of a cat which he annotated and sent it to nobleman Henry Hastings, 3rd Earl of Huntingdon. Hastings had local connections but he was also close to the Queen during the Rising of the North. He sent the report to Queen Elizabeth's advisor Sir William Cecil. Cecil sent it on to Edmund Grindal who was then the Bishop of London but who would in time be the Archbishop of Canterbury. Grindal concluded the affair in August of that year when ruled that it was a hoax, but he conceded that there was no evidence to prove that Bowker was not telling the truth.\n\nIt isn't known what happened to Agnes Bowker but the picture of the cat is now in the British Library. Bowker's alleged birth of a cat was also dismissed by the London physician William Bullein in 1573.\n"}
{"id": "10323612", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10323612", "title": "Aleksandr Leonidovich Zaitsev", "text": "Aleksandr Leonidovich Zaitsev\n\nAleksandr Leonidovich Zaitsev (; born May 19, 1945) is a Russian and Soviet radio engineer and astronomer from Fryazino. He works on radar astronomy devices, near-Earth asteroid radar research, and SETI.\n\nZaitsev is the chief scientist at the Russian Academy of Science's Institute of Radio Engineering and Electronics. He heads the group transmitting Team Encounter's interstellar messages using the Yevpatoria (Evpatoria) Deep Space Center (EDSC). Zaitsev is also serving as the SETI League's Regional Coordinator for Russia.\n\nZaitsev's career has focused on three main topics: the theory, the design and implementation of radar devices used in the study of Venus, Mars, and Mercury; near-Earth asteroid radar research; and interstellar radio messaging, his current field of research. He retired in 2013.\n\nZaitsev observed the asteroid 4179 Toutatis in December 1992 using the 70-m Yevpatorian Planetary Radar in Crimea (Ukraine), as a sounding signal transmitter, and the 100-m radio telescope in Effelsberg, Germany, as a receiver of the asteroid's radar echo.\n\nIn June 1995, Zaitsev was responsible for initiating the world's first intercontinental radar astronomy experiment; the radar groups participating in this experiment were led by Steven Ostro at JPL, Zaitsev in Yevpatoria, and Yasuhiro Koyama in Kashima, Japan. Ostro's group transmitted and received using the Goldstone site of the Deep Space Network, while Zaitsev received using the Yevpatoria site and Koyama's group received at Kashima. The target asteroid, 6489 Golevka, was later named for the participating observatories (GOL-EV-KA or GOLdstone-EVpatoria-KAshima). Zaitsev has also conducted work on using radar to determine the composition of asteroids and planetary bodies.\n\nZaitsev supervised the transmission of the 1999 and 2003 Cosmic Calls from Yevpatoria Planetary Radar (EPR). Under his leadership, a youth group in Moscow composed and broadcast a 'Teen Age Message to ETI'. Zaitsev proposed three-section structure of interstellar radio messages, coined the acronym METI (Messaging to Extra-Terrestrial Intelligence) and the phrase 'SETI paradox', which refers to an apparent \"paradox\" where two distant civilizations capable of interstellar communication will always remain silent unless one of them contacts the other first, resulting in a deadlock of silence. In 2005, in article \"The Drake Equation: Adding a METI Factor\" he suggested that a high technological is not enough for establishing contact with Aliens because appropriate behavior directed to practical realization of sending signals is necessary too.\n\nIn 2006-2011, Zaitsev was one of the contributors to the\n\nZaitsev received his M.Sc. degree in radio engineering from the Moscow Mining University in 1967 and his Ph.D. (1981) and his postdoctoral lecture qualification (1997) in radar astronomy from the Institute of Radio Engineering and Electronics, Russian Academy of Science in Moscow. He is a member of the Space Guard Foundation, the SETI League, and The European Radio Astronomy Club (E.R.A.C.).\n\n"}
{"id": "50568066", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50568066", "title": "Allie Novak", "text": "Allie Novak\n\nAllie Novak is a fictional character from the Australian drama series \"Wentworth\", played by Kate Jenkinson. She made her first appearance during the fourth season episode titled, \"First Blood\", broadcast on 10 May 2016. The character was introduced as a new prison inmate and friend of Kaz Proctor (Tammy Macintosh), participating in their vigilante group, which has a vested interest in protecting women. One story writers developed for Allie was a romance with then-central character Bea Smith (Danielle Cormack), a pairing that television critic Elaine Atwell of After Ellen has praised.\n\nKate Jenkinson had wanted a role in Wentworth since she had started watching the show while sick with the flu. Jenkinson recalled that when her agent contacted her informing her of the role in \"Wentworth\", she replied \"well it's mine\". The actress has stated that \"playing a character so “damaged and broken and colourful” is a responsibility she takes seriously.\" Jenkinson decided to research her role by seeking out women similar to her character. Her search led her to women's outreach centers, where residents shared their own experiences and advice.\n\nThe sentence is Allie's second prison term. She had previously been incarcerated for assault. Despite this charge, the character is not \"flustered\" and actually brings \"a warm and disarming wit\" to the show. Jenkinson told David Knox of TV Tonight that \"what really attracted me to her as a person and character was this endless positivity and optimistic outlook on life. Perhaps that comes from having experienced the worst that life has to offer. She has the attitude that things can only get better.\" Additionally, Allie was billed as \"an ice-addicted prostitute with a warm and engaging wit.\"\n\nAllie approaches Bea Smith (Danielle Cormack) to arrange a meeting with Kaz. Maxine Conway (Socratis Otto) warns her that Bea is in charge. Allie witnesses Maxine beating up another prisoner under Bea's orders. Allie stares at Bea's body in the shower which causes a bloody fight. Governor Vera Bennet (Kate Atkinson) does not support her inmates request of conjugal visits. Allie takes part in a nude protest against her decision. Allie asks Bea for a haircut to spend time with her.\n\nFormer governor Ferguson (Pamela Rabe) is placed on Allie's prison block and other inmates begin to harass her. Allie gives Boomer (Katrina Milosevic) advice about sex, knowing that Bea is listening she goes into more details to make her feel uncomfortable. Allie later apologizes to Bea and she explains her past as a prostitute and discusses ex-lovers. She also makes fun comments to Bea which are well received. Joan recovers from a gang-rape attack, a scenario she manipulated into happening in order to appear as a victim towards the members of Kaz's female protection group. She begins manipulating Kaz and leads her to believe that officer Will Jackson (Robbie Magasiva) was her attacker. Kaz plans to attack Will but the plot is halted after Allie informs Bea. Kaz confronts Allie but she denies ever telling Bea their plans.\n\nJoan plants drugs in Allie's cell and she is sent to the solitary confinement block, the slot. Counsellor Bridget Westfall (Libby Tanner) visits her and she denies using drugs. Allie and Bea chat to each other through an air vent in their cell wall. They discuss their pasts and begin to bond. When she is released she has to convince Kaz that the drugs were not hers. Allie visits Bea's cell and catches her self harming, she shows Bea sympathy and tends to her wounds. Allie gives Bea some ointment to help conceal her self-harming scars and applies it. Bea warns Allie that she is not a lesbian. She tells Bea that she intends to leave Kaz's group and realign herself with Bea. She warns Allie not to, explaining that it will make her a target for other inmates to gain advantage against Bea. Allie kisses Bea, but unbeknown to them, Ferguson has witnessed it. She continues to meet with Bea for romantic liaisons in the kitchen. Ferguson monitors their meeting times and begins a plot to murder Bea. Allie tells Bea that Kaz believes she is to blame for her vigilante group's incarceration. Kaz makes Allie join a protest, while Ferguson drugs and attacks Bea in the kitchen. Will gains evidence that Ferguson reported Kaz to the police. She rushes to save Bea from Ferguson. Allie becomes hysterical as a lifeless Bea is laid on the floor. After Bea is rescued, Allie is questioned by Vera and Will, Allie denies any knowledge of what happened. When Bea believes that Kaz and Allie played her, Allie is heartbroken and begs Kaz to set the story straight which doesn't happen. Allie tries to beat Kaz up but Kaz just forcibly hugs her until she calms down. Heartbroken, Allie relapses on to the drugs and takes cocaine. During the episode Smitten, Allie is flaunting herself in the exercise yard, Kaz takes Allie away when Bea refuses. When Lucy is beating Allie up in the showers, Bea and Maxine come to her aid, Allie confesses her love to Bea. Later in the episode, Bea supports Allie during cold turkey. Allie and Bea start a relationship in the following episode and then proceed to consummate their relationship. After having sex, Allie goes to the showers where Ferguson gives her a hot shot. Bea finds Allie in the showers and raises the alarm. Allie is transferred to hospital and placed on life support. Some time later Allie suddenly wakes up.\n\nDays later Allie wakes up to learn that Bea has died from Joan Ferguson (Pamela Rabe). Allie then returns to Wentworth prison where she is supported by many inmates. When Ferguson goes out into the main exercise yard, Allie attack her but is quickly defeated by Ferguson. Allie then confirms to Vera that she was indeed gave a hot shot. Allie figures out that Franky wants to escape. Despite a previously failed attempt, Allie is still determined to avenge Bea's death and kill Ferguson. She creates a stash of drugs in her cell intending to give Ferguson a hot shot. The attempt failed and she is devastated. Franky tries to comfort Allie and tells her she wants Allie to come with her when she escapes.\n\nElaine Atwell for AfterEllen branded the character \"Kaz’s second-in-command, a rather comely blonde I have taken to calling 'Opposite-of-Vinegar-Tits'\". Reflecting on Allie and Bea's show fight scenes Atwell pondered \"so it is wrong, very wrong, how much I enjoyed this scene, right?\" Atwell later observed more scenes between Allie and Bea and drew comparisons to the German-British film \"Imagine Me & You\". \nShe described the relationship as being a \"slow burn\" story. She loved the pairing but felt nervous about the outcome. When the pair kissed, the critic professed \"one of the most beautiful relationships I have ever had the privilege to write about.\" Atwell added \"Oh, it’s everything. I never hoped for this, never expected it, and it is all the sweeter for being a surprise. Not just sweet, it is a balm. A healing salve on my heart, and on the scars we have all sustained lately.\" The critic wrote about the relationship, \"My feelings about this couple seem to be a bottomless well; I can pour out page after page about the way it makes me feel to see them together, and I still find new facets to marvel at.\" The critic gave the relationship the name \"Ballie\". The critic has stated that Allie is \"kind and patient, a walking silver lining\". It was also written about Allie and Bea \"Up until now, we’ve been in the dazed wonderland with them\". The critic has also accused the character of being a \"violent transphobe\".\n\nA writer from The Bit Bag watched the show fight scene and said that Wentworth was \"really packing in heat with Allie and Bea\". The writer later wrote after the kiss between Allie and Bea, \"This is the biggest moment Ballie fans have been waiting for (including me)!\" Danielle Cormack who plays Bea, stated \"Kate Jenkinson as Allie Novak is just gorgeous and brings this great heart to the show.\"\n"}
{"id": "43849470", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43849470", "title": "Andrew Picken (lithographer)", "text": "Andrew Picken (lithographer)\n\nAndrew Picken (1815–1845) was a British draughtsman and lithographer.\n\nHe was the second of the four sons of Andrew Picken the novelist. He became a pupil of Louis Haghe, and in 1835 received from the Society of Arts their silver Isis medal for a lithographic drawing of the ruins of the Houses of Parliament after the fire of 1834. In the same year he exhibited, at the Royal Academy, a view of a tomb in Narbonne Cathedral. \nPicken then established himself as a lithographer, and had earned a reputation by the excellent quality of his work when in 1837 his health broke down. His lungs were affected, and he was sent to Madeira. During a residence of two years he drew a series of views of the island, which, on his return to England, were published under the title \"Madeira Illustrated\", 1840, with interesting letterpress edited from his notes by James Macaulay.\nAfter a short break Picken found it necessary to revisit Madeira; but his disease was terminal, he came back to London, and he died there on 24 June 1845. During his brief career he executed on stone a large number of landscapes, mainly illustrations to books of travel and private commissions.\n\nAttribution\n"}
{"id": "28810330", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28810330", "title": "Andrzej Ciechanowiecki", "text": "Andrzej Ciechanowiecki\n\nAndrew Stanislaus (Andrzej Stanisław) Ciechanowiecki (28 September 1924 – 2 November 2015), Dąbrowa Coat of Arms, was a Polish-British nobleman, diplomat, prisoner and agent of Communist Poland, economist, academic, art historian, philanthropist, art collector, antique dealer, antiquarian and exhibition curator. He was considered an authority on French baroque sculpture in the second half of the 20th century. \n\nHe was founder of the Ciechanowiecki Foundation at the Royal Castle in Warsaw (1986), Honorary Professor of the Academy of Fine Arts in Warsaw, member of the Polish Academy of Sciences, Honorary Member or Life Member of many learned societies both British and Polish, FSA, member of the board of trustees of the Royal Castle in Warsaw, and member of the board of the Lanckoroński Foundation. He was also a council member of the Princes Czartoryski Foundation from its establishment until July 2011, the Raczyński Foundation, and the Polish Historical and Literary Society in Paris (SHLP), chairman of the Polish-Belarusian Bilateral Commission for the Conservation of National Patrimony. \n\nHe was a prominent member of the Sovereign Military Order of Malta and the Sacred Military Constantinian Order of Saint George. His distinctions included the Order of the White Eagle (1998), Grand Cross of Polonia Restituta and war medals, the Gloria Artis Gold Medal, among other awards.\n\nWhile there is no doubt about his considerable academic and business achievements and his subsequent generosity in restoring some of Poland's pillaged cultural heritage, his wartime and immediate post-war activities remain unclear. A lack of clarity also applies to the origins of Ciechanowiecki's restored title of \"Count\".\n\nAndrew Ciechanowiecki was born in Warsaw in 1924, the only child of Jerzy Stanisław Ciechanowiecki, a Polish diplomat, and Matilda,\"Tilly\", née Countess Osiecimska-Hutten-Czapska, a prominent figure in the élite social circles of pre-war Warsaw. On his father's side, he came from an impoverished Masovian noble and senatorial family, established in Belarus, and who had recently lost their landed estates as a result of the Treaty of Riga (1921), when they fell to Soviet control. He had spent his early childhood in Budapest, where his father died at the early age of 37 while working at the Polish embassy, obliging the family to return to Warsaw. There he attended the \"Mikołaj Rey\" Primary School followed by the \"Stefan Batory Gimnazjum & Liceum\". The household came to be dominated by his widowed mother and maternal grandmother and their social connections. Ciechanowiecki later attributed his multilingual skills and lifelong academic discipline to their influence.\n\nThe German invasion of Poland began on 1st September 1939. On the advice - seriously flawed, as it turned out - of British general, Sir Adrian Carton de Wiart, resident in Poland, on 5th September, the family fled East. They went to stay in Mołodów, Polesie Voivodeship on the estate of Henryk Skirmunt and his sister, Maria, the younger siblings of Konstanty Skirmunt, Polish ambassador in London (1919-1934). The plan had been to overwinter there and that Ciechanowiecki should attend school in nearby Pinsk. On 17th September invading Soviet units laid siege to the small town. Elements of local Belarusian activists presented an ultimatum to the Skirmunts: that the 150 Polish military police stationed on their estate should lay down their arms or all the buildings would be set alight. The unworldly Skirmunts fell for the trap; the police were all shot with their own weapons, the elderly Skirmunts were slaughtered in the woods and all the premises looted. Ciechanowiecki and his family managed to flee the horror with the retreating Polish columns of general Franciszek Kleeberg. Ciechanowiecki later stated laconically: \"...coś tam pomagałem, mam nawet krzyż za kampanię wrześniową jako ochotnik.\" - \"I helped out a bit, I even have a cross for the September campaign, as a volunteer.\" They travelled via Kamien Koszyrski to Kowel, then by train, strafed by Soviet planes, on to Lwów. There they suffered a harsh winter and a failed attempt in December to cross the \"Green frontier\" into Romania. They left the city in March 1940, just two days ahead of the KGB's arrival to start mass deportations. Recrossing the new \"frontier\", they finally returned to Warsaw in early May 1940.\n\nBack at his old school, he obtained his baccalauréat in 1942 through \"clandestine classes\", \"Komplety\", together with classmates later to become \"luminaries\" of Polish higher education such as, Professors: Jerzy Kroh, J.A. Miłobędzki, J. Pelc and K. Szaniawski. The class was later dubbed the \"professorial cohort\"; of the group, only Ciechanowiecki did not become a professor, he later quipped. After leaving school he had to look for paid employment, did some charity work and enrolled on a degree course at the school of Professor Edward Lipiński, an underground version of the earlier SGH. To \"distract\" himself from difficult wartime conditions he decided to join an Art History course at the \"Uniwersytet Ziem Zachodnich\" (Western University) unaware of how portentous it would become. It enabled him to attend the lectures of professor Tatarkiewicz \"on themes like, happiness, in the light of a Carbide lamp in a chilly suburban room.\" In between these many courses, he attended Home Army training classes for cadets. \n\nAt some stage he became secretary to the politician, Adam Ronikier, an interlocutor with the German high command in occupied Warsaw. Presumably he remained in that position for the 63 day duration of the Warsaw Uprising that erupted on 1st August 1944. After the collapse of the Warsaw Uprising and conclusion of hostilities on 5th October, he did not leave the battered capital with the columns of captive Home Army fighters nor with the destitute civilian population. He left ten days later with the Red cross. By his own account, he visited Pruszków, the vast German holding camp for POWs and \"went on Home Army missions in the provinces\". He went to Kraków, where he was briefly arrested by the Germans, then released. Such circumstances were extraordinary for a young intelligent man of his age at that time, who was likely to have been a resistance member and therefore a suspect, unless he had \"special protection\". His bid to travel with Ronikier was refused and by the end of January 1945 he was back in Warsaw. His claim to have worked for a short spell with the anti-communist \"Freedom and Independence\" organisation, (Wolność i Niezawisłość), until the spring of 1945 does not stand up since it was not founded till September of that year.\n\nHaving decided not to escape to the West, in June 1945 he applied to the newly installed government of the People’s Republic of Poland to join the Polish Ministry of Foreign Affairs. Because of his knowledge of several languages, aged just 21, he was employed in the rank of Counsellor. He was assigned as Chief of Protocol to the Ministry of Shipping & Foreign Trade. In that capacity he participated in numerous negotiations with foreign delegations in Warsaw. In August 1945 he was a member of the Polish Delegation, as its interpreter, to the UNRRA Conference held in London. In the autumn of that year he was appointed counsellor to the embassy in the Hague, but that appointment was cancelled for political reasons, due to his origins and his alleged Home Army past. He returned to Kraków to complete his studies – firstly at the Academy of Economics, obtaining his degree in 1947 and then in the Faculty of History of Art of the Jagiellonian University, gaining his Master of Arts degree in March 1950. At the same time, he was involved in student activities and was the founder of the \"Club of the Logophagoi\", (Klub Logofagów), a debating society which comprised many prominent students and young scholars - some eminent politicians and scholars were to emerge from its ranks. The club was also the prototype for later clubs of the Catholic intelligentsia, which was preparing for the fall of Communism.\n\nHaving completed his studies, he was almost immediately appointed lecturer at the Institute of History of Art. Work on his doctoral thesis was interrupted by his arrest on 22 October 1950. Transported immediately to Warsaw in connection with the staged \"British Embassy\" Show trial and after lengthy interrogations, he was sentenced to ten years in prison in February 1952 for allegedly helping British and Vatican spies, as well as for extending his underground activities beyond the official date for disclosure, which, in any case, would probably have led to an earlier arrest. He spent five years and four months in prison in difficult conditions – firstly on remand in the cellars of the Ministry of Public Security in Koszykowa Street, and later in the infamous Mokotów Prison, both in Warsaw, and finally – after sentencing – in the prisons of Rawicz and Wronki. In the latter two he actively organised spiritual help for his fellow prisoners. Having got himself work in the prison hospital, he was instrumental in forging documents enabling the early release of a very large number of political prisoners. He himself was released on 6 March 1956 less than midway through his sentence. He was later cleared of all charges, probably in exchange for becoming an informer, especially on foreign trips.\n\nReturning to Kraków, he took up his doctoral thesis and also worked on other research projects. He was a consultant at the Wawel Castle Museum and also a curator at the Castle Museum in Łańcut. His academic interests concentrated on the history of furniture and later on Kraków Baroque silver, as well as on the culture of the former Commonwealth of Poland. In 1958 he won a travel scholarship from the Ford Foundation and the British Council, leaving the country on 22 July of that year, presumably, not thinking that it would mean a 19 year break with his homeland. He did, however, take the precaution of bringing with him all his materials relating to his research, the subject of his doctoral thesis. Later he completed another thesis at Tübingen University, Germany.\n\nAfter a 3-month stay in Great Britain, he spent another six months in the United States, visiting museums and lecturing on Polish culture. He had offers of work and further scholarships, but he decided to return to Europe, where in the autumn of 1959 he enrolled at the University of Tübingen to prepare a further doctoral thesis, on a new topic, and for which he had fortunately taken most of the materials with him from Kraków. At the same time, he taught Polish Culture for two semesters and was a lecturer in Polish Language. A Doctorate in Philosophy (magna cum laude) was conferred on him at the Eberhard Karls University in Tübingen in July 1960. His dissertation \"Michał Kazimierz Ogiński und sein Musenhof zu Słonim\" was published in German in 1961. As a recognised work of reference, it was also translated into Belarusian in two editions (1993 and 2006). He later spent a few months in Portugal on a Gulbenkian Foundation scholarship, the results of which were articles on Portuguese furniture.\n\nIn 1961, after much soul-searching, he decided to settle permanently in London, where he had been offered a directorship in the newly founded firm \"Mallett at Bourdon House\", a subsidiary of Mallet & Son in Bond Street. That same year, with the help of Polish friends already permanently resident in the United Kingdom, he arranged for his mother, Matylda, to whom he was devoted to come and join him in Britain. He became a British subject in 1967. \n\nDuring his time at Mallett's, he organised four innovative exhibitions on sculpture, mainly of the forgotten French 19th century, which were received with much critical acclaim. In 1965 he was invited to be co-organiser and co-owner of the newly opened London branch in Jermyn Street of the French \"Heim Gallery\". Gradually he bought out his partners and finally became the gallery's sole owner. In 1991 he sold the Heim Gallery and opened a smaller specialist business named, \"The Old Masters Gallery\", located opposite his previous gallery in Jermyn Street. He dealt from there until 1995, when as a result of a serious stroke he had to close the gallery and retire from business.\n\nThe innovative catalogues of the Heim Gallery became well known throughout the world and are to this day considered source material. They were copied by the main London auction houses and later by private galleries. He was also the first dealer in London for decades to present paintings, mainly Italian and French, from the 16th to the 19th centuries, together with sculpture which had been neglected for a long time. Sculpture became his main interest and the main element of the Heim Gallery's activities. The gallery specialised in Baroque and Neoclassical, as well as 19th-century art. The openings of exhibitions at the Heim Gallery were also innovative and became social and academic events in London. They were often opened in the presence of senior members of the Royal Family, twice by Queen Elizabeth The Queen Mother, members of the Government, ambassadors, and attended by scholars, society and museum directors.\n\nIn the professional field, Ciechanowiecki achieved major successes. He was the owner of one of the leading galleries of classical art in London, the organiser of over 40 significant exhibitions, which are still relevant today, was the initiator of interest in Baroque and Neoclassical art, especially French baroque sculpture. His enthusiasm for this period led to exports to major American and Continental museums. He was also the initiator and co-organiser of many important international exhibitions, including \"Giovanni Bologna\" (Edinburgh, London and Vienna), \"The Twilight of the Medici\" (Detroit, Florence), or \"The Golden Age of Naples\" (Naples and Detroit). He served on the Committees of other international exhibitions, which was unusual for a dealer in those days.\n\nIn his commercial activities, Ciechanowiecki always gave preference to British museums, in their pick of items at keen prices. This was his way of repaying a debt, in his own words, \"to the country of [his] happy adoption\".\n\nFinally, having established a good income stream, he began collecting works of Polish art and art connected with Poland, in the hope that they would ultimately reach his homeland. He was also the co-organiser of three major exhibitions including: \"Treasures of a Polish King\" at the Dulwich Gallery in London in 1992. Next was the exhibition on \"Polish Expressionism and The Land of the Winged Horsemen\" in museums in the USA. Travelling to the United States several times a year, he lectured extensively on the history of Polish Culture, particularly in Detroit, where he contributed to the creation of a Polish Section at the Detroit Institute of Arts. He also lectured in Britain and had articles published in various scholarly magazines. In 1986, when his collections had grown considerably in quantity (and from which he had already donated a number of items to Polish museums), he set up the \"Ciechanowiecki Foundation at the Royal Castle\" in Warsaw. The foundation distributes its holdings to other Polish museums on long-term loan, but predominantly it has been furnishing the rebuilt \"Royal Castle\". He also gave the foundation a large library, his archives and a not inconsiderable sum for the upkeep of the collections. Since 1986 he had been enriching the foundation with numerous donations of significant importance, as well as books and archival material.\n\nCiechanowiecki had petitioned from Poland, as the first Pole from behind the Iron Curtain, and was probably among the first petitioners from Eastern Europe, to seek membership of the Sovereign & Military Order of Malta, SMOM, in 1957, although usually it is by invitation only. He was accepted into its ranks a year later by the Polish Association of the Order, then in exile. He later became its deputy chancellor, to Emeryk August Hutten-Czapski for 10 years, and vice-president until 1997. He initiated under its aegis the creation of a care home, \"Kolbe House\", for Polish elderly in the outskirts of London, which later transferred to Warsaw, where it became far more significant. He rose through the ranks of the Order, finally becoming Bailiff Grand Cross of the Most Venerable Order of the Hospital of Saint John of Jerusalem.\n\nHe was also very active in various dynastic orders, especially those of the Bourbon-Two Sicilies dynasty, creating delegations to Poland, Great Britain and Ireland of the Sacred Military Constantinian Order of Saint George, serving under Grand Master, The Duke of Castro on the Order's Council in Rome. He rose through the ranks and held uniquely the honours of Knight of the Order of St Januarius, Bailiff Grand Cross of Justice of the Sacred Military Constantinian Order of Saint George with Collar and Grand Cross of the Royal Order of Francis I.\n\nHe later formed the Delegation of the Order of St Maurice & St Lazarus of the Royal House of Savoy in the UK and in recent years helped to establish the Tuscan Dynastic Orders of St Stephen and that of St Joseph in Britain. He was also very close to the former Russian Imperial House and was decorated with the highest Orders of Imperial Russia.\n\nHis position in the Order of Malta and his personal relationships with the heads of former ruling houses as well as his quasi diplomatic activities in the fields of culture and ecclesiastical affairs were the grounds on which the last King of Italy, Umberto II, who although in exile, had kept his royal prerogatives in the field of Heraldry and confirmed Ciechanowiecki's \"hereditary right\" to use a comital title in 1975 - a foreign title bestowed on a family member more than 200 years ago. Two years later the Order of Malta confirmed this usage in all pertinent acts of the order internationally, as it maintains diplomatic relations with more than 100 sovereign states.\nOn behalf of the Polish Association of \"SMOM\" in the UK, he did much to support Polish charities during Martial law in Poland (1991-2), funded many scholarships and, on behalf of the Polish Association of the Knights of Malta contributed to the costs for the construction of the Church of St Maximilian Kolbe in the industrial suburb of Mistrzejowice on the outskirts of Kraków. It was the second church to be built in a secular Communist city (1975-1983). Its interior décor is mainly sculptural. He worked closely with Prof. Gustaw Ziemła, a noted Polish sculptor, to produce the décor of the Lady chapel, which has entered the canon of Polish post-war sculpture.\n\nAs co-founder of the Page of History Foundation, (Fundacja Karta z Dziejów), which commemorates the centuries of Jewish participation in the culture and life of Poland, he contributed financially and as its artistic advisor to the erection of the monument \"The Ten Commandments\" in Łódź and the statue of \"David the Psalmist\" in Zamość, both the work of Gustaw Zemła. Other works, sponsored by the foundation, are in the pipeline. He also deposited works of art from his own collections to decorate several Polish Embassies.\n\nCiechanowiecki began to travel to Poland again in 1977, 19 years after his intended nine-month foreign trip on a scholarship. He had remained in close touch with his professors and colleagues in Poland and was particularly involved – even from London – in the rebuilding of the Royal Castle in Warsaw. The foundation he created in 1986, now consisting of some 3000 items including paintings, drawings, furniture, silverware, textiles, miniatures, medals and jewels, is the single greatest donation that the Royal Castle in Warsaw has ever received. The foundation does not aim to have a building or rooms named after itself. It distributes works of art to other museums in Poland, depending on the needs of those institutions, but with priority given to the Royal Castle in Warsaw, which he has helped considerably in furnishing and decorating. The foundation has also financed various important publications, including the magisterial work on the history of Polish stately homes in the Kresy region of the Polish Second Republic, pre-war Poland, by Roman Aftanazy, 1st edition 1986, 2nd edition 1993, among other works.\n\nAndrew Ciechanowiecki, ever aware of the land of his Polish ancestors – namely, the territory of the former Grand Duchy of Lithuania and Belarus - was involved with the Belarusian émigré community in London and their cultural establishment. He also met scholars visiting London from Belarus, corresponded with them, and in 1987 was invited by its government to visit Belarus. As it was already autumn of that year, the visit was postponed till 1988. The visit was officially defined as \"in the footsteps of the family\": landing in St Petersburg, travelling to Minsk, via the family's former estates near Vitebsk and Polatsk, Mstsislau and Mahiliou. The return journey took him back to Minsk with a departure from Moscow. The fortnight's trip was during the short-lived period of political Détente. Many contacts were made and other trips to Belarus ensued, in collaboration with the appropriate Polish and British authorities advised. This all led to Ciechanowiecki's involvement in the preservation and conservation of historical monuments in Belarus, primarily the princely Radzivil residence in Niasvizh and its Collegiate Church.\n\nFurther to the decision of both Governments, Ciechanowiecki was appointed chairman of the Polish-Belarusian Bilateral Commission for the Conservation of the National Patrimony in 1993, and he continued as honorary chairman of this body, even latterly chairing meetings on several occasions. He was elected honorary chairman of the Belarusian Nobility Association, (which he founded), and honorary member of the International Association of Belarusian Studies, which he had also founded and chaired some of their meetings in Niasvizh, Minsk, Warsaw and Venice.\n\nHe was appointed an honorary member of the Institute of History of the Belarusian Academy of Sciences, and finally received an Honorary Doctorate from the Belarusian State University in Minsk. He is quite active in Belarusian-British relations, being \"inter alia\" vice-president of the Anglo-Belarusian Society in London. He also made some significant gifts to Belarusian museums and, above all, he donated some reliquaries of Belarusian Catholic saints to churches in Belarus, and acted as a contact between the Belarusian Orthodox Church and the Vatican.\n\nIn 1995 Ciechanowiecki suffered a severe stroke, which deprived him of the use of his legs. He became confined to a wheelchair for the last twenty years of his life. However, he remained intellectually very active in the pursuit of his many interests. Above all, he continued with his numerous connections with Poland, where he still travelled several times a year to attend academic meetings, including those of his own Foundation, as well as to deal with the publication of various books, and also to pursue his para-diplomatic and political activities. \n\nCiechanowiecki never married and was the last of his line. He died in London on 2 November 2015, aged 91. After a funeral service at the Brompton Oratory, London, his remains were taken to their final resting place in the \"crypt of the Knights of Malta\" in the parish church of Mistrzejowice, Kraków.\n\n\n\n\nHe was granted Honorary doctorates by the following academic bodies:\n\nThere were other awards and \"Festschrifts\", both in Poland and other countries. \nHe was awarded Honorary Freedom of the town of Ciechanowiec, (Poland) and of Zaslawye, (Belarus).\n\n\n\n\nDebrett's People of Today https://web.archive.org/web/20120808064817/http://www.debretts.com/people/biographies/search/results/17910/Andrew%20Stanislaus%20CIECHANOWIECKI.aspx\n"}
{"id": "35311121", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35311121", "title": "Barrie Weaver", "text": "Barrie Weaver\n\nBarrie Weaver is an industrial designer living in London.\n\nBorn in Kent, Weaver spent his early years in the Middle East where his father was posted as a director of ICAO. Returning to London to complete his education, he gained a BA in Industrial Design Engineering at the Central School of Art.\n\nWeaver's professional career began with Terence Conran creating products for Habitat shops before moving to Pentagram Design's London office, mentored by Kenneth Grange and Alan Fletcher, both of whom he cites as powerful influences.\n\nHis independent career started by joining forces with Jos Roberts, a fellow Central student, to form Roberts Weaver Design. Early commissions included the UK's first mass-produced computer terminal for Newbury Labs (part of the Grundy NewBrain project) and the Implanter 9000 for Applied Materials.\n\nIntegrating computers into the workplace became a key focus with dealing rooms for Banks worldwide, the Goonhilly Satellite Earth Station, and with Nixdorf, New York City's first touch-screen voting booth.\n\nNotably, Weaver spotted the potential of Jonathan Ive, and gave him his first job. Ive became the Senior Vice President of Industrial Design at Apple Inc and is internationally renowned as the principal designer of the iMac, iPod and the iPhone.\n\nIn the UK Weaver obtained commissions from BT Group, Amstrad, Marks & Spencer, Marconi, Boots, Ransomes and KEF before venturing East to land projects with Hitachi, Panasonic, Samsung, Nissan, Subaru, LG, Zebra.\nUnder Weaver's guidance the team has won numerous Design Council, iF product design award, Red Dot, and Norwegian Design Council awards.\nIn 1990, Weaver received the Prince Philip Designers Prize in recognition of his work. Weaver is a Fellow of the Royal Society of Arts and a Fellow of the Chartered Society of Designers. He served on the Design Council from 1989 to 1995.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "683272", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=683272", "title": "Bernd and Hilla Becher", "text": "Bernd and Hilla Becher\n\nBernhard \"Bernd\" Becher (; August 20, 1931 – June 22, 2007), and Hilla Becher, née Wobeser (September 2, 1934 – October 10, 2015), were German conceptual artists and photographers working as a collaborative duo. They are best known for their extensive series of photographic images, or typologies, of industrial buildings and structures, often organised in grids. As the founders of what has come to be known as the ‘Becher school’ or the ‘Düsseldorf School’ they influenced generations of documentary photographers and artists. They have been awarded the Erasmus Prize and the Hasselblad Award.\n\nBernd Becher was born in Siegen. He studied painting at the Staatliche Akademie der Bildenden Künste Stuttgart from 1953 to 1956, then typography under Karl Rössing at the Kunstakademie Düsseldorf from 1959 to 1961. Hilla Becher was born in Potsdam. Prior to Hilla's time studying photography at the Kunstakademie Düsseldorf from 1958 to 1961, she had completed an apprenticeship as a photographer in her native Potsdam. Both began working as freelance photographers for the Troost Advertising Agency in Düsseldorf, concentrating on product photography.\n\nThe couple married in 1961.\n\nMeeting as students at the Kunstakademie Düsseldorf in 1957, Bernd and Hilla Becher first collaborated on photographing and documenting the disappearing German industrial architecture in 1959. The Ruhr Valley, where Becher’s family had worked in the steel and mining industries, was their initial focus. They were fascinated by the similar shapes in which certain buildings were designed. After collating thousands of pictures of individual structures, they noticed that the various edifices – of cooling towers, gas tanks and coal bunkers, for instance – shared many distinctive formal qualities. In addition, they were intrigued by the fact that so many of these industrial buildings seemed to have been built with a great deal of attention toward design.\n\nTogether, the Bechers went out with a large 8 x 10-inch view camera and photographed these buildings from a number of different angles, but always with a straightforward \"objective\" point of view. They shot only on overcast days, so as to avoid shadows, and early in the morning during the seasons of spring and fall. Objects included barns, water towers, coal tipples, cooling towers, grain elevators, coal bunkers, coke ovens, oil refineries, blast furnaces, gas tanks, storage silos, and warehouses. At each site the Bechers also created overall landscape views of the entire plant, which set the structures in their context and show how they relate to each other. They excluded any details that would detract from the central theme and instead set up comparisons of viewpoint and lighting through which the eye is led to the basic structural pattern of the images being compared. This principle, which is allied to the philosophy underlying the New Topographics movement, is most obvious in the two published series, \n\"Anonyme Skulpturen: Eine Typologie technischer Bauten\" and \"Typologien, Industrieller Bau, 1963–1975\", in which the images are contrasted in groups of three. Another early project, which they pursued for nearly two decades, was published as \"Framework Houses\" (Schirmer/Mosel) in 1977, a visual catalog of types of structures, an approach that characterized much of their work.\n\nIn drawing attention to the cultural dimension of industrial architecture, their work also highlighted the need for preservation of these buildings. On the couple's initiative the Zollern II/IV Colliery at Dortmund-Bovinghausen in the Ruhr, for the most part an art-deco structure, was designated a protected landmark.\n\nThe Bechers also photographed outside Germany, including from 1965 buildings in Great Britain, France, Belgium and later in the United States. In 1966, they undertook a six-month journey through England and south Wales, taking hundreds of photographs of the coal industry around Liverpool, Manchester, Sheffield, Nottingham and the Rhondda Valley. In 1974, they traveled to North America for the first time, touring sites in New Jersey, Michigan, Pennsylvania, and southern Ontario, depicting a range of industrial structures, from coal breakers to wooden winding towers.\n\nThe Bechers exhibited and published their single-image gelatin silver prints, grouped by subject, in a grid of six, nine, or fifteen. By the mid-1960s the Bechers had settled on a preferred presentational mode: the images of structures with similar functions are then displayed side by side to invite viewers to compare their forms and designs based on function, regional idiosyncrasies, or the age of the structures. The Bechers used the term “typology” to describe these ordered sets of photographs. The works’ titles are pithy and captions note only time and location. In 1989–91, for an exhibition at the Dia Art Foundation in New York, the Bechers introduced a second format into their oeuvre: single images that are larger in size — twenty-four by twenty inches — and presented individually, rather than as gridded tableaux.\n\nIn 1976, Bernd Becher started teaching photography at the Kunstakademie Düsseldorf (policy matters prevented Hilla's simultaneous appointment), where he remained on the faculty until 1996. Before him, photography had been excluded from what was largely a school for painters. He influenced students that later made a name for themselves in the photography world. Former students of Bernd's included Andreas Gursky, Thomas Ruff, Thomas Struth, Candida Höfer, Axel Hütte and Elger Esser. Bernd died in Rostock.\n\nAfter Bernd Becher's death, his widow Hilla continued to reassemble their works, mostly using existing photographs.\n\nThe Becher school has influenced a number of (mainly) German photographers including Laurenz Berges, Andreas Gursky, Candida Höfer, Axel Hütte, Simone Nieweg, Thomas Ruff, Thomas Struth and Petra Wunderlich. The Canadian Edward Burtynsky also works in a similar mode. Aside from its vital documentary and analytical qualities, the Becher's long-term project has also had a considerable impact on Minimalism and Conceptual Art since the 1970s.\n\n\nThe Bechers had their first gallery exhibition in 1963 at the Galerie Ruth Nohl in Siegen. Their work became better known in the United States with the publication of their book \"Anonyme Skulpturen\" (Anonymous Sculptures) in 1970. The Bechers were shown at the George Eastman House and in solo exhibitions at Sonnabend Gallery, New York, in 1972. In 1974, the Institute of Contemporary Arts, London, organized an exhibition of their work, which toured the United Kingdom. The couple was invited to participate in Documenta 5, 6, 7, and 11 in Kassel in 1972, 1977, 1982 and 2002, and at the Bienal de São Paulo in 1977. The Stedelijk Van Abbemuseum, Eindhoven, organized a retrospective of the artists’ work in 1981. In 1985 the artists had a major museum exhibition, which traveled to the Museum Folkwang, Essen, Musée d’Art Moderne de la Ville de Paris, and Musée d’Art Moderne de la Ville de Liège, Belgium. In 1991 the artists won the Leone d’Oro award for sculpture at the Venice Biennale. The Venice installation was reworked later in 1991, in a retrospective exhibition at the Kölnischer Kunstverein, Cologne. The Typologies installation was exhibited in 1994 at the Ydessa Hendeles Art Foundation, Toronto, and at the Westfälisches Landesmuseum für Kunst und Kulturgeschichte in Münster. Other retrospectives of the couple’s work have been organized by the Photographische Sammlung/SK Stiftung Kulture in Cologne (1999 and 2003), Centre Georges Pompidou in Paris (2005) and Museum of Modern Art in New York (2008).\n\nIn 2014, Hilla Becher curated \"August Sander/Bernd and Hilla Becher: ‘A Dialogue’\" at Bruce Silverstein Gallery in New York. Unlike previous displays, the Bechers’ architectural images were displayed as singular “portraits” while Sander’s photographs of people were represented as typological grids.\n\nThe Bechers' work is held in the following public collections:\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "18600876", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18600876", "title": "Bosniaks", "text": "Bosniaks\n\nThe Bosniaks (, ; singular masculine: \"Bošnjak\", feminine: \"Bošnjakinja\") are a South Slavic nation and ethnic group inhabiting mainly the area of Bosnia and Herzegovina. A native minority of Bosniaks live in other countries in the Balkans; especially in the Sandžak region of Serbia and Montenegro (where Bosniaks form a regional majority), and in Croatia and Kosovo. Bosniaks are typically characterized by their historic tie to the Bosnian historical region, traditional majority adherence to Islam since the 15th and 16th centuries, common culture and Bosnian language. As of 2017 Bosniaks are also recognised as a national minority in Albania.\nEnglish speakers frequently refer to Bosniaks as Bosnian Muslims or simply as Bosnians, though the latter term can also denote all inhabitants of Bosnia and Herzegovina (regardless of ethnic identity) or apply to citizenship in the country.\n\nOver two million Bosniaks live in the Balkans, with an estimated additional million settled and living around the world. Ethnic cleansing and genocide during the Bosnian War (1991–95) have had an effect on the territorial distribution of the population. Partly due to this, a significant Bosniak diaspora exists in a number of countries, including Austria, Germany, Turkey, Australia, Sweden, Canada and the United States.\n\nAccording to the \"Bosniak\" entry in the Oxford English Dictionary, the first preserved use of \"Bosniak\" in English was by British diplomat and historian Paul Rycaut in 1680 as \"Bosnack\", cognate with post-classical Latin \"Bosniacus\" (1682 or earlier), French \"Bosniaque\" (1695 or earlier) or German \"Bosniak\" (1737 or earlier). The modern spelling is contained in the 1836 \"Penny Cyclopaedia\" V. 231/1: \"The inhabitants of Bosnia are composed of Bosniaks, a race of Sclavonian origin\". In the Slavic languages, \"-ak\" is a common suffix appended to words to create a masculine noun, for instance also found in the ethnonym of Poles (\"Polak\") and Slovaks (\"Slovák\"). As such, \"Bosniak\" is etymologically equivalent to its non-ethnic counterpart \"Bosnian\" (which entered English around the same time via the Middle French, \"Bosnien\"): a native of Bosnia.\n\nFrom the perspective of Bosniaks, \"bosanstvo\" (Bosnianhood) and \"bošnjaštvo\" (Bosniakhood) are closely and mutually interconnected, as Bosniaks connect their identity with Bosnia and Herzegovina.\nThe earliest attestation to a Bosnian ethnonym emerged with the historical term \"Bošnjanin\" (Latin: \"Bosniensis\") which denoted the people of the medieval Bosnian kingdom. By the 15th century, the suffix \"-(n)in\" had been replaced by \"-ak\" to create the current form \"Bošnjak\" (Bosniak), first attested in the diplomacy of Bosnian king Tvrtko II who in 1440 dispatched a delegation (\"Apparatu virisque insignis\") to the Polish king of Hungary, Władysław Warneńczyk (1440–1444), asserting a common Slavic ancestry and language between the \"Bosniak\" and Pole. The Miroslav Krleža Lexicographical Institute thus defines \"Bosniak\" as \"the name for the subjects of the Bosnian rulers in the pre-Ottoman era, subjects of the Sultans during the Ottoman era, and the current name for the most numerous of the three constituent peoples in Bosnia and Herzegovina. Bosniak, as well as the older term \"Bošnjanin\" (in Lat. \"Bosnensis\"), is originally a name defining the inhabitants of the medieval Bosnian state\".\n\nThe Bosniaks derive their ethnonym from Bosnia, first mentioned in \"De Administrando Imperio\" by the Byzantine emperor Constantine VII as the \"horion\" (\"small country\") of \"Bosona\" (Βοσωνα). Linguists have traditionally proposed the name to be derived from the eponymous river \"Bosna\"; believed to be a pre-Slavic hydronym in origin and possibly mentioned for the first time during the 1st century AD by Roman historian Marcus Velleius Paterculus under the name \"Bathinus flumen\". Another basic source associated with the hydronym \"Bathinus\" is the Salonitan inscription of the governor of Dalmatia, Publius Cornelius Dolabella, where it is stated that the \"Bathinum\" river divides the Breuci from the Osseriates.\nSome scholars also connect the Roman road station \"Ad Basante\", first attested in the 5th century \"Tabula Peutingeriana\", to Bosnia. According to the English medievalist William Miller in the work \"Essays on the Latin Orient\" (1921), the Slavic settlers in Bosnia \"adapted the Latin designation [...] Basante, to their own idiom by calling the stream Bosna and themselves Bosniaks [...]\".\nAccording to philologist Anton Mayer the name \"Bosna\" could essentially be derived from Illyrian \"Bass-an-as(-ā)\" which would be a diversion of the Proto-Indo-European root *\"bhoĝ\"-, meaning \"the running water\". The Croatian linguist, and one of the world's foremost onomastics experts, Petar Skok expressed an opinion that the chronological transformation of this hydronym from the Roman times to its final Slavicization occurred in the following order; *\"Bassanus\"> *\"Bassenus\"> *\"Bassinus\"> *\"Bosina\"> \"Bosьna\"> \"Bosna\".\nOther theories involve the rare Latin term \"Bosina\", meaning boundary, and possible Slavic and Thracian origins. Theories that advocates the link of the name Bosnia, and thus of the Bosniaks with the Early Slavs of northern Europe has initially been proposed by the 19th century historians Joachim Lelewel and Johann Kaspar Zeuss, who considered the name of Bosnia to be derived from a Slavic ethnonym, Buzhans (Latin: \"Busani\"), mentioned in the Primary Chronicle and by the Geographus Bavarus in his \"Description of cities and lands north of the Danube\". According to both Lelewel and Zeuss Buzhans settled in Bosnia. The theory of Slavic origin of the name Bosnia and it's possible connection with the Slavic tribe of Buzhans, came also to be advocated by the 20th and 21th century Yugoslav and Bosnian historians such as Marko Vego, Muhamed Hadžijahić and Mustafa Imamović. \nFor the duration of Ottoman rule, the word Bosniak came to refer to all inhabitants of Bosnia; Turkish terms such as \"Boşnak milleti\", \"Boşnak kavmi\", and \"Boşnak taifesi\" (all meaning, roughly, \"the Bosnian people\"), were used in the Empire to describe Bosnians in an ethnic or \"tribal\" sense; and indeed, 17th-century Ottoman traveler and writer Evliya Çelebi reports in his work \"Seyahatname\" of the people in Bosnia as natively known as Bosniaks (Bošnjaci). However, the concept of nationhood was foreign to the Ottomans at that time – not to mention the idea that Muslims and Christians of some military province could foster any common supra-confessional sense of identity. The inhabitants of Bosnia called themselves various names: from Bosniak, in the full spectrum of the word's meaning with a foundation as a territorial designation, through a series of regional and confessional names, all the way to modern-day national ones. In this regard, Christian Bosnians had not described themselves as either Serbs or Croats prior to the 19th century, and in particular before the Austrian occupation in 1878, when the current tri-ethnic reality of Bosnia and Herzegovina was configured based on religious affiliation. Social anthropologist Tone Bringa develops that \"Neither Bosniak, nor Croat, nor Serb identities can be fully understood with reference only to Islam or Christianity respectively, but have to be considered in a specific Bosnian context that has resulted in a shared history and locality among Bosnians of Islamic as well as Christian backgrounds.\"\n\nBosniaks are generally defined as the South Slavic nation on the territory of the former Yugoslavia whose members identify themselves with Bosnia and Herzegovina as their ethnic state and are part of such a common nation, and of whom a majority are Muslim by religion. Nevertheless, leaders and intellectuals of the Bosniak community may have various perceptions of what it means to be Bosniak. Some may point to an Islamic heritage, while others stress the purely secular and national character of the Bosniak identity and its connection with Bosnian territory and history. Moreover, individuals outside Bosnia and Herzegovina may hold their own personal interpretations as well. Some people, such as Montenegrin Abdul Kurpejović, recognize an Islamic component in the Bosniak identity but see it as referring exclusively to the Slavic Muslims in Bosnia. Still others consider all Slavic Muslims in the former Yugoslavia (i.e. including the Gorani) to be Bosniaks.\n\nIn Yugoslavia, unlike the preceding Austro-Hungarian Empire, there was no official recognition of Bosniak ethnicity. As a political compromise, the Constitution of Yugoslavia was amended in 1968 to introduce \"Muslims\" in a national (as opposed to religious) sense; effectively recognizing a constitutive nation whilst avoiding the recognition of \"Bosniak\" or \"Bosnian\" as ethnic or national designations. Prior to this, the great majority of Bosnian Muslims had declared either \"Ethnically Undecided Muslim\" or – to a lesser extent – \"Undecided Yugoslav\" in censuses pertaining to Yugoslavia as the other available options were \"Serb-Muslim\" and \"Croat-Muslim\". Although it achieved recognition as a distinct nation by an alternative name, the use of \"Muslim\" as an ethnic designation was opposed early on as it sought to label Bosniaks a religious group instead of an ethnic one. To quote Bosnian president Hamdija Pozderac at the time:\n\nUpon Bosnia and Herzegovina's declaration of independence from Yugoslavia in the early 1990s, the great majority of Bosnian Muslims aligned themselves with the Bosniak identity. In September 1993, at the height of the Bosnian War, the Second Bosniak Congress formed a basis for the official re-establishment of the historical ethnic name \"Bosniak\" and deprecation of the former \"Muslim\" in use during SFR Yugoslavia. Today, the election law of Bosnia and Herzegovina, as well as the Constitution of Bosnia and Herzegovina, recognizes the results from the 1991 population census as results referring to Bosniaks which are, alongside Bosnian Serbs and Bosnian Croats, one of the three \"constituent nations\" in post-war Bosnia and Herzegovina and the single largest ethnic group in the country.\n\nIn other ex-Yugoslav countries with significant Slavic Muslim populations, adoption of the Bosniak name has been less consistent. The effects of this phenomenon can best be seen in the censuses. For instance, the 2003 Montenegrin census recorded 48,184 people who registered as Bosniaks and 28,714 who registered as Muslim by nationality. Although Montenegro's Slavic Muslims form one ethnic community with a shared culture and history, this community is divided on whether to register as Bosniaks (\"i.e.\" adopt Bosniak national identity) or as Muslims by nationality. Similarly, the 2002 Slovenian census recorded 8,062 people who registered as Bosnians, presumably highlighting (in large part) the decision of many secular Bosniaks to primarily identify themselves in that way (a situation somewhat comparable to the \"Yugoslav\" option during the socialist period). However, such people comprise a minority (even in countries such as Montenegro where it is a significant political issue) while the great majority of Slavic Muslims in the former Yugoslavia have adopted the Bosniak national name.\n\nAs a melting ground for confrontations between different religions, national mythologies, and concepts of statehood, much of the historiography of Bosnia and Herzegovina has since the 19th century been the subject of competing Serb and Croat nationalist claims part of wider Serbian and Croatian hegemonic aspirations in Bosnia and Herzegovina, inherently interwoven into the complex nature of the Bosnian War at the end of the 20th century.\nAs Andras Riedlmayers's meticulous research for the Hague Tribunal demonstrates: \"What happened in Bosnia is not just genocide, the willful destruction of the essential foundations of one particular community or group of people within a society\" \"[...]\" \"What happened in Bosnia is also described as sociocide, the murdering of a progressive, complex, and enlightened society in order that a regressive, simple, and bigoted society could replace it.\"\n\nAccording to Mitja Velikonja, Bosnia and Herzegovina constitutes \"a historical entity which has its own identity and its own history\". Robert Donia claims that as Serbia and Croatia only occupied parts of Bosnia and Herzegovina briefly in the Middle Ages, neither have any serious historical claims to Bosnia. Moreover, Donia states that although Bosnia did interact with its Serb and Croat neighbors over the centuries, it had a very different history and culture from them. 12th-century Byzantine historian John Kinnamos reported that Bosnia was not subordinated to the Grand Count of Serbia; rather the Bosnians \"had their own distinct way of life and government\". The expert on medieval Balkan history John V.A. Fine reports that the Bosnians (\"Bošnjani\") have been a distinct people since at least the 10th century.\n\nIt is noted that writers on nationalism in Yugoslavia or the Bosnian War tend to ignore or overlook the Bosnian Muslim ideology and activity and see them as victims of other nationalisms and not nationalistic themselves.\n\nThe Early Slavs, a people from northeastern Europe, settled the territory of Bosnia and Herzegovina (and neighboring regions) in the sixth and early seventh century (amid the Migration Period), and were composed of small tribal units drawn from a single Slavic confederation known to the Byzantines as the \"Sclaveni\" (whilst the related \"Antes\", roughly speaking, colonized the eastern portions of the Balkans). Upon their arrival, the Slavs assimilated the Paleo-Balkan, mostly romanized tribes, generically known as the Illyrians on the territory of present-day Bosnia and Herzegovina, but also the romanized Celtic population which had intermingled with these since the 4th century BC, and to a lesser extent the Germanic-speaking Ostrogoths which had entered the area in the late 4th century AD. Timothy Gregory writes that \"It is now generally agreed that the people who lived in the Balkans after the Slavic \"invasions\" were probably for the most part the same as those who had lived there earlier, although the creation of new political groups and arrival of small numbers of immigrants caused people to look at themselves as distinct from their neighbours, including the Byzantines\"\n\nBeing a remote and mountainous region, Bosnia appears to have been settled by a smaller number of Slavic colonizers than the region in general and perhaps served as an area of refuge for the indigenous peoples. Tribes recorded under the ethnonyms of \"Serb\" and \"Croat\" are described as a second, latter, migration of different people during the second quarter of the 7th century who do not seem to have been particularly numerous; these early \"Serb\" and \"Croat\" tribes, whose exact identity is subject to scholarly debate, came to predominate over the Slavs in the neighboring regions. Bosnia proper, however, appears to have been a territory outside Serb and Croat rule not being enumerated as one of the regions settled by those tribes. In time, Bosnia would come to form an independent unit under a ruler, Ban Kulin, calling himself Bosnian. In the 14th century a Bosnian kingdom centered on the river Bosna emerged. Its people, when not using local (county, regional) names, called themselves Bosnians.\n\nFollowing its conquest by the Ottoman Empire in the mid-15th century, Bosnia experienced a rapid and extensive conversion of the local population to Islam, and by the early 1600s roughly two thirds of Bosnians were Muslim. In addition, a smaller number of converts from outside Bosnia were in time assimilated into the common Bosniak unit, such as Croats (mainly in Turkish Croatia, and the Muslims of Slavonia that fled to Bosnia following the Austro-Turkish war), Serbian and Montenegrin Muhacirs (in Sandžak particularly Islamicized descendants of the Old Herzegovinian and highlander tribes from Brda region, such as Rovčani, Moračani, Drobnjaci and Kuči), and slavicized Vlachs, Albanians and German Saxons.\n\nGenetic studies on Bosniaks (in Bosnia and Herzegovina) show close affinity to other neighboring South Slavs. Y-DNA results show notable frequencies of I2 with 43.50% (especially its subclade I2-CTS10228+), R1a with 15.30% (mostly its two subclades R1a-CTS1211+ and R1a-M458+), E-V13 with 12.90% and J-M410 with 7.10%. Principal component analysis of Y-chromosomal haplogroup frequencies among the three ethnic groups in Bosnia and Herzegovina, Serbs, Croats, and Bosniaks, showed that Serbs and Bosniaks are genetically closer to each other than either of them is to Croats.\n\nIn addition, mtDNA studies shows that the Bosnian population partly share similiarities with other Southern European populations (especially with mtDNA haplogroups such as pre-HV (today known as mtDNA haplogroup R0), HV2 and U1), but are for the mostly featured by a huge combination of mtDNA subclusters that indicades a consanguinity with Central and Eastern Europeans, such as modern German, West Slavic, East Slavic and Finno-Ugric populations. There is especially the observed similarity between Bosnian, Russian and Finnish samples (with mtDNA subclusters such as U5b1, Z, H-16354, H-16263, U5b-16192-16311 and U5a-16114A). The huge differentiation between Bosnian and Slovene samples of mtDNA subclusters that are also observed in Central and Eastern Europe, may suggests a broader genetic heterogeneity among the Slavs that settled the Western Balkans during the early Middle ages.\n\nThe western Balkans had been reconquered from \"barbarians\" by Byzantine Emperor Justinian (r. 527–565). Sclaveni (Slavs) raided the western Balkans, including Bosnia, in the 6th century. The \"De Administrando Imperio\" (DAI; ca. 960) mentions Bosnia (/Bosona) as a \"small/little land\" (or \"small country\", /horion Bosona) part of Serbia, having been settled by Serbs along with Zahumlje and Travunija (both with territory in modern-day Bosnia and Herzegovina); it was referred to only once, at the end of the 32nd chapter on the Serbs (a chapter overall drawn from older writings). This is the first mention of a Bosnian entity; it was not a national entity, but a geographical one, mentioned strictly as an integral part of Serbia. Some scholars assert that the inclusion of Bosnia in Serbia merely reflect the status in DAI's time. In the Early Middle Ages, Fine, Jr. believes that what is today western Bosnia and Herzegovina was part of Croatia, while the rest was divided between Croatia and Serbia.\n\nAfter the death of Serbian ruler Časlav (r. ca. 927–960), Bosnia seems to have broken away from the Serbian state and became politically independent. Bulgaria briefly subjugated Bosnia at the turn of the 10th century, after which it became part of the Byzantine Empire. In the 11th century, Bosnia was part of the Serbian state of Duklja.\n\nIn 1137, the Kingdom of Hungary annexed most of the Bosnia region, then briefly lost it in 1167 to Byzantum before regaining her in the 1180s. Prior to 1180 (the reign of Ban Kulin) parts of Bosnia were briefly found in Serb or Croat units. Anto Babić notes that \"Bosnia is mentioned on several occasions as a land of equal importance and on the same footing as all other [South Slavic] lands of this area.\"\n\nAfter frequent change of rule over the area between regional powers, a \"de facto\" independent Bosnian state known as the Banate of Bosnia arose in the 12th century, though nominally under Hungarian sway.\n\nChristian missions emanating from Rome and Constantinople had since the ninth century pushed into the Balkans and firmly established Catholicism in Croatia, while Orthodoxy came to prevail in Bulgaria, Macedonia, and eventually most of Serbia. Bosnia, lying in between, remained a no-man's land due to its mountainous terrain and poor communications. By the twelfth century most Bosnians were probably influenced by a nominal form of Catholicism characterized by a widespread illiteracy and, not least, lack of knowledge in Latin amongst Bosnian clergymen. Around this period, Bosnian independence from Hungarian overlordship was effected during the reign (1180–1204) of Kulin Ban whose rule marked the start of a religiopolitical controversy involving the native Bosnian Church. The Hungarians, frustrated by Bosnia's assertion of independence, successfully denigrated its patchy Christianity as heresy; in turn rendering a pretext to reassert their authority in Bosnia. Hungarian efforts to gain the loyalty and cooperation of the Bosnians by attempting to establish religious jurisdiction over Bosnia failed however, inciting the Hungarians to persuade the papacy to declare a crusade: finally invading Bosnia and warring there between 1235 and 1241. Experiencing various gradual success against stubborn Bosnian resistance, the Hungarians eventually withdrew weakened by a Mongol attack on Hungary. On the request of the Hungarians, Bosnia was subordinated to a Hungarian archbishop by the pope, though rejected by the Bosnians, the Hungarian-appointed bishop was driven out of Bosnia. The Bosnians, rejecting ties with international Catholicism came to consolidate their own independent church, known as the Bosnian Church, condemned as heretical by both the Roman Catholic and Eastern Orthodox churches. Though scholars have traditionally claimed the church to be of a dualist, or neo-Manichaean or Bogomil nature (characterized by the rejection of an omnipotent God, the Trinity, church buildings, the cross, the cult of saints, and religious art), some, such as John Fine, have stressed domestic evidence indicating the retention of basic Catholic theology throughout the Middle Ages. Most scholars agree that adherents of the church referred to themselves by a number of names; \"dobri Bošnjani\" or \"Bošnjani\" (\"good Bosnians\" or simply \"Bosnians\"), \"Krstjani\" (Christians), \"dobri mužje\" (good men), \"dobri ljudi\" (good people) and \"boni homines\" (following the example of a dualist group in Italy). Catholic sources refer to them as \"patarini\" (patarenes), while the Serbs called them \"Babuni\" (after Babuna Mountain), the Serb term for Bogomils. The Ottomans referred to them as \"kristianlar\" while the Orthodox and Catholics were called \"gebir\" or \"kafir\", meaning \"unbeliever\". The majority of the knowledge about the church is retrieved from outside sources.\n\nThe Bosnian state was significantly strengthened under the rule (ca. 1318–1353) of ban Stephen II of Bosnia who patched up Bosnia's relations with the Hungarian kingdom and expanded the Bosnian state, in turn incorporating Catholic and Orthodox domains to the west and south; the latter following the conquer of Zahumlje (roughly modern-day Herzegovina) from the Serbian Nemanjić dynasty. In the 1340s, Franciscan missions were launched against alleged \"heresy\" in Bosnia; prior to this, there had been no Catholics – or at least no Catholic clergy or organization – in Bosnia proper for nearly a century. By the year 1347, Stephen II was the first Bosnian ruler to accept Catholicism, which from then on came to be – at least nominally – the religion of all of Bosnia's medieval rulers, except for possibly Stephen Ostoja of Bosnia (1398–1404, 1409–18) who continued to maintain close relations with the Bosnian Church. The Bosnian nobility would subsequently often undertake nominal oaths to quell \"heretical movements\" – in reality, however, the Bosnian state was characterized by a religious plurality and tolerance up until the Ottoman invasion of Bosnia in 1463.\n\nBy the 1370s, the Banate of Bosnia had evolved into the powerful Kingdom of Bosnia following the coronation of Tvrtko I of Bosnia as the first Bosnian king in 1377, further expanding into neighboring Serb and Croat dominions. However, even with the emergence of a kingdom, no concrete Bosnian identity emerged; religious plurality, independent-minded nobility, and a rugged, mountainous terrain precluded cultural and political unity. As Noel Malcolm stated: \"All that one can sensibly say about the ethnic identity of the Bosnians is this: they were the Slavs who lived in Bosnia.\"\n\nUpon his father's death in 1461, Stephen Tomašević succeeded to the throne of Bosnia, a kingdom whose existence was being increasingly threatened by the Ottomans. In same year, Stephen Tomašević made an alliance with the Hungarians and asked Pope Pius II for help in the face of an impending Ottoman invasion. In 1463, after a dispute over the tribute paid annually by the Bosnian Kingdom to the Ottomans, he sent for help from the Venetians. However, no help ever arrived to Bosnia from Christendom; King Matthias Corvinus of Hungary, Skenderbeg of Albania and the Ragusans all failed to carry out their promises, while the Venetians flatly refused the king's pleas. In 1463, Sultan Mehmed the Conqueror led an army into the country. The royal city of Bobovac soon fell, leaving Stephen Tomašević to retreat to Jajce and later to Ključ. Mehmed invaded Bosnia and conquered it very quickly, executing the last Bosnian king Stephen Tomašević and his uncle Radivoj. Bosnia officially fell in 1463 and became the westernmost province of the Ottoman Empire.\n\nThe Croatian humanist and poet Marko Marulić, known as the \"Father of the Croatian Renaissance,\" wrote \"Molitva suprotiva Turkom\" (Prayer against the Turks) – a poem in 172 doubly rhymed dodecasyllablic stanzas of anti-Turkish theme, written between 1493 and 1500, where he, among others, included Bosniaks as the one of peoples who resisted the Ottomans.\n\nThe rise of Ottoman rule in the Balkans modified the religious picture of Bosnia and Herzegovina as the Ottomans brought with them a new religion, Islam. Throughout the entire Balkans people were sporadically converting in small numbers; Bosnia, by contrast, experienced a rapid and extensive conversion of the local population to Islam, and by the early 1600s approximately two thirds of the population of Bosnia were Muslim. Slovenian observer Benedikt Kuripečič compiled the first reports of the religious communities in the 1530s. According to the records for 1528 and 1529, there were a total of 42,319 Christian and 26,666 Muslim households in the \"sanjaks\" (Ottoman administrative units) of Bosnia, Zvornik and Herzegovina. In a 1624 report on Bosnia (excluding Herzegovina) by Peter Masarechi, an early-seventeenth-century apostolic visitor of the Roman Catholic Church to Bosnia, the population figures are given as 450,000 Muslims, 150,000 Catholics and 75,000 Orthodox Christians. Generally, historians agree that the Islamization of the Bosnian population was not the result of violent methods of conversions but was, for the most part, peaceful and voluntary. Scholars have long debated the reasons that made this collective acceptance of Islam possible among the Bosniaks, although the religious dynamic of medieval Bosnia is frequently cited. Peter Masarechi, saw four basic reasons to explain the more intensive Islamization in Bosnia: the 'heretical past' of the Bosnians, which had left them confessionally weak and capable of transferring their allegiance to Islam; the example of many Bosnians who had attained high office through the devşirme, and as powerful men were in a position to encourage their relatives and associates to convert; a desire to escape from the burdens of taxation and other services levied on non-Muslim citizens; and finally, an equally strong desire to escape the proselytizing importunities of Franciscan monks among the Orthodox population.\nAlways on a purely religious ground, it is also said, by the orientalist Thomas Walker Arnold for instance, that because of the major heresy in the region at the time, oppressed by the Catholics and against whom Pope John XXII even launched a crusade in 1325, the people were more receptive to the Ottoman Turks. In fact, in the tradition of Bosnian Christians, there were several practices that resembled Islam; like for instance; praying five times a day (reciting the Lord's Prayer).\nIn time, hesitant steps were made towards acceptance of Islam. At first, this Islamisation was more or less nominal. In reality, it was an attempt at reconciling the two faiths. It was a lengthy and halting progress towards their final abandoning of their beliefs. For centuries, they were not considered full-fledged Muslims, and they even paid taxes like Christians. This process of Islamisation was not yet finished in the 17th century, as is witnessed by a keen English observer, Paul Rycaut, who states in \"The Present State of the Ottoman Empire\" in 1670: \"But those of this Sect who strangely mix Christianity and Mahometanism together, are many of the Souldiers who live on the confines of Serbia and Bosnia; reading the gospel in the Sclavonian tongue…; besides which, they are curious to learn the mysteries of the Alchoran [Quran], and the Law of Arabick tongue. [...] The Potures [Muslims] of Bosna are of this Sect, but pay taxes as Christians do; they abhor Images and the sign of the Cross; they circumcise, bringing the Authority of Christ's example for it.\"\nMany children of Christian parents were separated from their families and raised to be members of the Janissary Corps (this practice was known as the devşirme system, 'devşirmek' meaning 'to gather' or 'to recruit'). Owing to their education (for they were taught arts, science, maths, poetry, literature and many of the languages spoken in the Ottoman Empire), Serbian, Croatian and Bosnian became one of the diplomatic languages at the porte. The Ottoman period that followed was characterized by a change in the landscape through a gradual modification of the settlements with the introduction of bazaars, military garrisons and mosques. Converting to Islam brought considerable advantages, including access to Ottoman trade networks, bureaucratic positions and the army. As a result, many Bosnians were appointed to serve as beylerbeys, sanjak-beys, mullahs, qadis, pashas, muftis, janissary commanders, writers, and so forth in Istanbul, Jerusalem and Medina. Among these were important historical figures were: prince Sigismund of Bosnia (later Ishak Bey Kraloğlu), Hersekzade Ahmed Pasha, Isa-beg Ishaković, Gazi Husrev-beg, Damat Ibrahim Pasha, Ferhad Pasha Sokolović, Lala Mustafa Pasha and Sarı Süleyman Pasha. At least seven viziers were of Bosnian origin, of which the most renowned was Sokollu Mehmed Pasha (who served as Grand Vizier under three sultans: Suleiman the Magnificent, Selim II, and Murad III). The Ottoman rule also saw many architectural investments in Bosnia and the creation and development of many new cities including Sarajevo and Mostar. This is mostly because of the high esteem the Bosniaks held in the eyes of the Sultans and the Turks. Bosnia became also a strategic base from which the Ottomans launched their armies northward and westward on campaigns of conquest and pillage. The Turks regarded Bosnia as a \"bastion of Islam\" and its inhabitants served as frontier guards (\"serhatlije\"). The presence of Bosnians in the Ottoman Empire had an important social and political effect on the country: it created a class of powerful state officials and their descendants which came into conflict with the feudal-military spahis and gradually encroached upon their land, hastening the movement away from the feudal tenure towards private estates and tax-farmers, creating a unique situation in Bosnia where the rulers were native inhabitants converted to Islam. Although geographically located in Europe, Bosnia was perceived as culturally distant. Because of the strong Islamic character of the country during the Ottoman period, Bosnia was perceived as more oriental than the Orient itself, an 'authentic East within Europe'. The English archeologist Arthur Evans, who traveled through Bosnia and Herzegovina in the 1870s, claimed that \"Bosnia remains the chosen land of Mahometan [Muslim] Conservatism [...] fanaticism has struck its deepest roots among her renegade population, and reflects itself even in the dress.\" \n\nOttoman rule affected the ethnic and religious make-up of Bosnia and Herzegovina in additional ways. A large number of Bosnian Catholics retreated to the still unconquered Catholic regions of Croatia, Dalmatia, and Slovenia, at the time controlled by Habsburg Monarchy and the Republic of Venice, respectively. To fill up depopulated areas of northern and western Eyalet of Bosnia, the Ottomans encouraged the migration of large numbers of hardy settlers with military skills from Serbia and Herzegovina. Many of these settlers were Vlachs, members of a nomadic pre-Slav Balkan population that had acquired a Latinate language and specialized in stock breeding, horse raising, long-distance trade, and fighting. Most were members of the Serbian Orthodox church. Before the Ottoman conquest, that church had very few members in the Bosnian lands outside Herzegovina and the eastern strip of the Drina valley; there is no definite evidence of any Orthodox church buildings in central, northern, or western Bosnia before 1463. With time most of the Vlach population adopted a Serb identity.\n\nThe 17th century brought major defeats and military setbacks on the Ottoman Empire's western frontier. With major wars occurring every few decades, Bosnia was economically and militarily exhausted. For Bosnia and Bosniaks, the most critical conflict of all was the Great Turkish War. At its very start in the mid-1680s, the Habsburgs retook nearly all of Ottoman Hungary, sending tens of thousands of Muslim refugees flooding into the Bosnian region. A similar process occurred with the Habsburg conquest of Lika and Slavonia. Thousands of Muslims from these parts fled eastward into the Bosnian pashaluk, while those who remained were forcibly converted to Catholicism. In total, it is estimated that more than 100,000 Muslims were expelled from the frontier regions and settled in Bosnia during this time. Many brought with them a new sense of hostility towards Christianity.\n\nOttoman military disasters continued into the next decade. In 1697, Habsburg Prince Eugene of Savoy conducted an extremely successful border raid which culminated in Sarajevo being put to the torch. The Great Turkish War was finally ended by the Treaty of Karlowitz in 1699. However, in the late 1710s yet another war between the Ottomans and the Habsburg-Venetian alliance ensued. It was ended by the Treaty of Passarowitz in 1718, but not before sending another wave of Muslim refugees fleeing to Bosnia proper.\nThese events created great unrest among Bosniaks. The sentiment of discontent was further magnified by war and an increased tax burden. As a result, Bosniak revolts sprang up in Herzegovina in 1727, 1728, 1729, and 1732. A great plague that resulted in the death of thousands during the early 1730s contributed to the general chaos. In 1736, seeking to exploit these conditions, The Habsburgs broke the Treaty of Passarowitz and crossed the Sava river boundary. In one of the most significant events in Bosniak history, local Bosniak nobility organized a defense and counterattack completely independent of the ineffective imperial authorities. On 4 August 1737, at the Battle of Banja Luka, the outnumbered Bosniak forces routed the Habsburg army and sent them fleeing back to Slavonia.\nThe Ottoman military reform efforts, that called for further expansion of the centrally controlled army (\"nizam\"), new taxes and more Ottoman bureaucracy would have important consequences in Bosnia and Herzegovina. These reforms weakened the special status and privileges for the Bosniak aristocracy and the formation of a modern army endangered the privileges of the Bosnian Muslim military men and of local lords, both were demanding greater independence from the Constantinople. Barbara Jelavich states: \"The Muslims of Bosnia and Herzegovina [...] were becoming increasingly disillusioned with the Ottoman government. The centralizing reforms cut directly into their privileges and seemed to offer no compensating benefits. [...]\" The turning point came with the end of the Russo-Ottoman War of 1828–1829 and the Treaty of Adrianople in 1829. According to the provisions of the treaty, the Ottoman Empire granted suzerainty to Serbia as a result of the Serbian revolution. In a move that outraged Bosniaks and launched numerous protests, newly autonomous Serbia was also given six districts (Bosnian: \"nahijas\") that had traditionally belonged to Bosnia. Following this move, seen as the confiscation of historically Bosnian lands, the Bosnian autonomy movement was born. In 1831 they joined together under the leader Husein-kapetan Gradaščević and formally demanded the autonomy of Bosnia and Herzegovina with an elected native ruler. Gradaščević made a call in May 1831, demanding that all Bosniak aristocrats immediately join his army, along with all from the general populace who wished to do so. Thousands rushed to join him, among them being numerous Bosnian Christians, who were said to comprise up to a third of his total forces. But the Ottoman government crushed the revolt, led by the local Herzegovinian Ali-paša Rizvanbegović of Stolac, who was later given Pashaluk of Herzegovina as a reward by the sultan Mahmud II. Husein Gradaščević died in Constantinople, under controversial circumstances in 1834, and became a living legend in his own time. Upon his death, he also became something of a martyr for Bosnian pride. This positive sentiment was not exclusive to the Muslim population, as Christians from Posavina are thought to have shared a similar view for decades. Husein Gradaščević is still today considered a Bosniak national hero and one of the most revered figures in the history of Bosnia and Herzegovina.\n\nNational consciousness developed in Bosnia and Herzegovina among the three ethnic groups in the 19th century, with national identities having had a major impact from the Millet system in place in Ottoman society (where 'religion and nationality were closely intertwined and often synonyms'). During Ottoman rule, there was a clear distinction between Muslims and non-Muslims. There were different tax categories and clothes, but only in the late 18th- and early 19th century \"the differentiations develop into ethnic and national forms of identification\", according to Soeren Keil. The bordering countries of Serbia and Croatia consequently laid claim to Bosnia and Herzegovina; a combination of religion, ethnic identity and territorial claim was the basis for the three distinct nations.\n\nHowever, members of the 19th century Illyrian movement, most notably franciscan Ivan Franjo Jukić, whose Bosnianhood is apparent from his very \"nom de plume\" \"Slavophile Bosniak\" (\"Slavoljub Bošnjak\"), emphasized Bosniaks (Bosnians) alongside Serbs and Croats as one of the \"tribes\" that constitute the \"Illyrian nation\".\nInfluenced by the ideas of the French Revolution and Illyrian Movement, the majority of Bosnian Franciscans supported the freedom, brotherhood, and unity of all South Slavs, while at the same time stressing a unique Bosniak identity as separate from the Serb and Croat identities. However, as pointed out by Denis Bašić, being a Bosniak in the 19th century was very much a social status granted only to the Muslim Bosnian aristocracy. Accordingly, Ivan Franjo Jukić writes in 1851 that \"the begs and other Muslim lords call [Slavic-speaking Muslim peasants] \"Poturice\" [the Turkified ones] or \"Ćose\" [the beardless ones], while Christians call them \"Balije\" [a vulgar term that derives from the Ottoman period, and which applied to occasional Bosnian Muslim nomads who lived in mountainous areas. Today it is considered the most derogatory term for Bosniaks].\" Sometimes the term \"Turčin\" (Turk) was commonly used to describe the Bosnian and other Slavic Muslims, designating religious, and not ethnic belonging. The Italian diplomat M. A. Pigafetta, wrote in 1585 that Bosnian Christian converts to Islam refused to be identified as \"Turks\", but as \"Muslims\". Klement Božić, an interpreter at the Prussian consulate in Bosnia during the 19th century stated that the \"Bosnian Christians are calling their Muslim compatriots as 'Turks' and Muslim foreigners as 'Ottomans'; nor will ever a Muslim Bosniak say to an Ottoman, that he is a Turk or call him his brother. [...] A Bosniak Muslim can not tolerate the Ottomans and he [the Ottoman] despises the Bosniak\". Conrad Malte-Brun, a French-Danish geographer, states also in his \"Universal Geography\", in 1829, that the term \"infidel\" is commonly used among the Muslims of Constantinople to depict the Muslims of Bosnia; further he states that Bosnians descended from the warriors of the northern race, and that their barbarism needs to be imputed to an intellectual separation from the rest of the Europe, because of their lack of the enlightenment of Christendom. Croatian writer Matija Mažuranić wrote in 1842 that \"in Bosnia Christians do not dare to call themselves Bosniaks. Mohammedans consider only themselves Bosniaks and Christians are only the Bosniak serfs (\"raya\") or, to use the other word, Vlachs.\" The Muslim city people, craftsmen and artisans, i.e., those who were not serfs but rather free, that is, tax-exempt, also called themselves Bosniaks and their language \"bošnjački\" (Tur. \"boşnakça\"). The French diplomat and scholar Massieu de Clerval, who visited Bosnia in 1855, stated in his report that the \"Bosnian Greeks [i.e. Orthodox Christians], Muslims and Catholics live together and frequently in very good harmony when foreign influences do not awake fanaticism and the question of religious pride\".\n\nJukić's pupil and fellow friar Antun Knežević, was one of the main protagonists of the multireligious \"Bošnjak\" (Bosniak) identity as well, and even more vocal then friar Jukić. He fiercely advocated against imminent \"Croatization\" of Catholics on one side, as well as imminent \"Serbianization\" of Orthodox people on the other, as he called it in his work. His position and doctrine was that all Bosnians are one people of three faiths, and that up to the late 19th century, no Croats and Serbs lived in Bosnia and Herzegovina. Although Knežević was not a unique phenomenon in this sense, he certainly had strongest impact, next to Jukić. Prior to that it was Franciscan Filip Lastrić (1700–1783) who first wrote on the commonality of the citizens in the Bosnian \"eyalet\", regardless of their religion. In his work \"Epitome vetustatum provinciae Bosniensis\" (1765), he claimed that all inhabitants of the Bosnian province (\"eyalet\") constituted \"one people\" of the same descent.\n\nThe conflict rapidly spread and came to involve several Balkan states and Great Powers, which eventually forced the Ottomans to cede administration of the country to Austria-Hungary through the Treaty of Berlin (1878).\nAfter the uprising in Herzegovina (1875–78) the population of Bosnian Muslims and Orthodox Christians in Bosnia decreased. The Orthodox Christian population (534,000 in 1870) decreased by 7 percent while Muslims decreased by a third. The Austrian census in 1879 recorded altogether 449,000 Muslims, 496,485 Orthodox Christians and 209,391 Catholics in Bosnia and Herzegovina. The losses were 245,000 Muslims and 37,500 Orthodox Christians.\nA large number of Muslims left Bosnia and Herzegovina following the Austrian occupation; official Austro-Hungarian records show that 56,000 people, mostly Muslims, emigrated between 1883 and 1920, but the number of Muslim emigrants is probably much greater, as the official record does not reflect emigration before 1883, nor include those who left without permits. Those who stayed were concentrated in towns and particularly proud of their urban culture, especially in the Bosnian capital, Sarajevo, which soon became one of the most multi-cultural cities in the former Yugoslavia.\n\nDuring the 20th century Bosnian Muslims founded several cultural and welfare associations in order to promote and preserve their cultural identity. The most prominent associations were \"Gajret\", \"Merhamet\", \"Narodna Uzdanica\" and later \"Preporod\". The Bosnian Muslim intelligentsia also gathered around the magazine \"Bosnia\" in the 1860s to promote the idea of a unified \"Bosniak nation\". This Bosniak group would remain active for several decades, with the continuity of ideas and the use of the \"Bosniak name\". From 1891 until 1910, they published a Latin-script magazine titled \"Bošnjak\" (Bosniak), which promoted the concept of \"Bosniakism\" (Bošnjaštvo) and openness toward European culture. Since that time the Bosniaks adopted European culture under the broader influence of Habsburg Monarchy. At the same time they kept the peculiar characteristics of their Bosnian Islamic lifestyle. These initial, but important initiatives were followed by a new magazine named \"Behar\" whose founders were Safvet-beg Bašagić (1870–1934), Edhem Mulabdić (1862–1954) and Osman Nuri Hadžić (1869–1937).\n\nAfter the occupation of Bosnia and Herzegovina in 1878, the Austrian administration of Benjamin Kallay, the Austro-Hungarian governor of Bosnia and Herzegovina, officially endorsed \"Bosniakhood\" as the basis of a multi-confessional Bosnian nation that would include Christians as well as Muslims. The policy attempted to isolate Bosnia and Herzegovina from its irredentist neighbors (Orthodox Serbia and Catholic Croatia, but also the Muslims of the Ottoman Empire) and to negate the concepts of Serbian and Croatian nationhood which had already begun to take ground among the country's Orthodox and Catholic communities, respectively. The notion of Bosnian nationhood was, however, firmly established only among the Bosnian Muslims, while fiercely opposed by Serb and Croat nationalists who were instead seeking to claim Bosnian Muslims as their own, a move that was rejected by most of them.\n\nAfter Kallay's death in 1903, the official policy slowly drifted towards accepting the three-ethnic reality of Bosnia and Herzegovina. Ultimately, the failure of Austro-Hungarian ambitions to nurture a Bosniak identity amongst the Catholic and Orthodox led to almost exclusively Bosnian Muslims adhering to it, with 'Bosniakhood' consequently adopted as a Bosnian Muslim ethnic ideology by nationalist figures. The journal \"Bošnjak\" (\"Bosniak\") founded in 1891 by Mehmed-beg Kapetanović Ljubušak declared that Bosniaks (in the sense of all Bosnians) were neither Croats nor Serbs but a distinct, though related people. It remarked that: \"whereas the Croats argue that the Orthodox are our greatest enemies and that Serbdom is the same as Orthodoxy, the Serbs wear themselves out calling our attention to some bogus history, by which they have Serbianized the whole world. We shall never deny that we belong to the South Slav family; but we shall remain Bosniaks, like our forefathers, and nothing else.\"\nIn November 1881, upon introducing the Bosnian-Herzegovinian Infantry, the Austro-Hungarian government passed a Military Law (\"Wehrgesetz\") imposing an obligation upon all Bosnian Muslims to serve in the Imperial Army, which led to widespread riots in December 1881 and throughout 1882; the Austrians appealed to the Mufti of Sarajevo, Mustafa Hilmi Hadžiomerović (born 1816) and he soon issued a Fatwa \"calling on the Bosniaks to obey military Law.\" Other important Muslim community leaders such as Mehmed-beg Kapetanović Ljubušak, later Mayor of Sarajevo, also appealed to young Muslim men to serve in the Habsburg military.\n\nIn 1903, the Gajret cultural society was established; it promoted Serb identity among the Slavic Muslims of Austria-Hungary (today's Bosnia and Herzegovina) and viewed that the Muslims were Serbs lacking ethnic consciousness. The view that Muslims were Serbs is probably the oldest of three ethnic theories among the Bosnian Muslims themselves.\n\nAt the outbreak of World War I, Bosnian Muslims were conscripted to serve in the Austro-Hungarian army, some chose to desert rather than fight against fellow Slavs, whilst some Bosniaks attacked Bosnian Serbs in apparent anger after the assassination of Archduke Franz Ferdinand. Austro-Hungarian authorities in Bosnia and Herzegovina imprisoned and extradited approximately 5,500 prominent Serbs, 700–2,200 of whom died in prison. 460 Serbs were sentenced to death and a predominantly Bosniak special militia known as the \"Schutzkorps\" was established and carried out the persecution of Serbs. Neven Anđelić writes \"One can only guess what kind of feeling was dominant in Bosnia at the time. Both animosity and tolerance existed at the same time\".\n\nAfter World War I, the Kingdom of Serbs, Croats and Slovenes (later known as the Kingdom of Yugoslavia) was formed. In it, Bosniaks alongside Macedonians and Montenegrins were not acknowledged as a distinct ethnic group. However; the first provisional cabinet included a Muslim.\n\nPolitically, Bosnia and Herzegovina was split into four banovinas with Muslims being the minority in each. After the Cvetković-Maček Agreement 13 counties of Bosnia and Herzegovina were incorporated into the Banovina of Croatia and 38 counties into the projected Serbian portion of Yugoslavia. In calculating the division, the Muslims were discounted altogether which prompted the Bosniaks into creating the \"Movement for the Autonomy of Bosnia-Herzegovina\". Moreover, land reforms proclaimed in the February 1919 affected 66.9 per cent of the land in Bosnia and Herzegovina. Given that the old landowning was predominantly Bosniak, the land reforms were resisted. Violence against Muslims and the enforced seizure of their lands shortly ensued. Bosniaks were offered compensation but it was never fully materialized. The regime sought to pay 255,000,000 dinars in compensation per a period of 40 years with an interest rate of 6%. Payments began in 1936 and were expected to be completed in 1975; however in 1941 World War Two erupted and only 10% of the projected remittances were made.\n\nDuring World War II, Bosniak elite and notables issued resolutions or memorandums in various cities that publicly denounced Croat-Nazi collaborationist measures, laws and violence against Serbs: Prijedor (23 September), Sarajevo (the Resolution of Sarajevo Muslims of 12 October), Mostar (21 October), Banja Luka (12 November), Bijeljina (2 December) and Tuzla (11 December). The resolutions condemned the Ustaše in Bosnia and Herzegovina, both for their mistreatment of Muslims and for their attempts at turning Muslims and Serbs against one another.\nOne memorandum declared that since the beginning of the Ustaše regime, that Muslims dreaded the lawless activities that some Ustaše, some Croatian government authorities, and various illegal groups perpetrated against the Serbs. At this time several massacres against Bosniaks were carried out by Serb and Montenegrin Chetniks. It is estimated that 75,000 Muslims died in the war, although the number may have been as high as 86,000 or 6.8 percent of their pre-war population. A number of Muslims joined the Yugoslav Partisan forces, \"making it a truly multi-ethnic force\". In the entirety of the war the Yugoslav Partisans of Bosnia and Herzegovina were 23 percent Muslim. Even so, Serb-dominated Yugoslav Partisans would often enter Bosniak villages killing Bosniak intellectuals and other potential opponents. In February 1943 the Germans approved the 13th Waffen Mountain Division of the SS Handschar (1st Croatian) and began recruitment. Muslims composed approximately 12 percent of the civil service and armed forces of the Independent State of Croatia.\n\nDuring the socialist Yugoslav period, the Muslims continued to be treated as a religious group instead of an ethnic group. In the 1948 census, Bosnia and Herzegovina's Muslims had three options in the census: \"Serb-Muslim\", \"Croat-Muslim\", and \"ethnically undeclared Muslim\". In the 1953 census the category \"Yugoslav, ethnically undeclared\" was introduced and the overwhelming majority of those who declared themselves as such were Muslims. The Bosniaks were recognized as an ethnic group in 1961 but not as a nationality and in 1964 the Fourth Congress of the Bosnian Party assured the Bosniaks the right to self-determination. On that occasion, one of the leading communist leaders, Rodoljub Čolaković, stated that \"our Muslim brothers\" were equal with Serbs and Croats and that they would not be \"forced to declare themselves as Serbs and Croats.\" He guaranteed them \"full freedom in their national determination\" In 1971, the Muslims were fully recognized as a nationality and in the census the option \"Muslims by nationality\" was added.\n\nDuring the war, the Bosniaks were subject to ethnic cleansing and genocide. The war caused hundreds of thousands of Bosniaks to flee the nation. The war also caused many drastic demographic changes in Bosnia. Bosniaks were prevalent throughout almost all of Bosnia in 1991, a year before the war officially broke out. As a result of the war, Bosniaks in Bosnia were concentrated mostly in areas that were held by the Bosnian government during the war for independence. Today Bosniaks make up the absolute majority in Sarajevo and its canton, most of northwestern Bosnia around Bihać, as well as central Bosnia, Brčko District, Goražde, Podrinje and parts of Herzegovina.\n\nAt the outset of the Bosnian war, forces of the Bosnian Serb Army attacked the Bosnian Muslim civilian population in eastern Bosnia. Once towns and villages were securely in their hands, the Serb nationalist forces – military, police, the paramilitaries and, sometimes, even Serb villagers – applied the same pattern: houses and apartments were systematically ransacked or burnt down, civilians were rounded up or captured, and sometimes beaten or killed in the process. Men and women were separated, with many of the men massacred or detained in the camps. The women were kept in various detention centers where they had to live in intolerably unhygienic conditions, where they were mistreated in many ways including being raped repeatedly. Serb nationalist soldiers or policemen would come to these detention centres, select one or more women, take them out and rape them.\nThe Serbs had the upper hand due to heavier weaponry (despite less manpower) that was given to them by the Yugoslav People's Army and established control over most areas where Serbs had relative majority but also in areas where they were a significant minority in both rural and urban regions excluding the larger towns of Sarajevo and Mostar. The Serb nationalist military and political leadership received the most accusations of war crimes by the International Criminal Tribunal for the former Yugoslavia (ICTY) many of which have been confirmed after the war in ICTY trials.\nMost of the capital Sarajevo was predominantly held by the Bosniaks. In the 44 months of the siege, terror against Sarajevo residents varied in intensity, but the purpose remained the same: inflict suffering on civilians to force the Bosnian authorities to accept Serb demands. The VRS surrounded it (alternatively, the Serb forces situated themselves in the areas surrounding Sarajevo the so-called Ring around Sarajevo), deploying troops and artillery in the surrounding hills in what would become the longest siege in the history of modern warfare lasting nearly 4 years.\n\nThroughout Bosnia and Herzegovina, mosques were systematically destroyed by Serb and Croat armed forces. Among the most important losses were two mosques in Banja Luka; Arnaudija and Ferhadija mosques.\n\nBosniaks speak the Bosnian language, a South Slavic language of the Western South Slavic subgroup. Standard Bosnian is considered a variety of \"Serbo-Croatian\", as mutually intelligible with the Croatian and Serbian languages (see Differences in standard Serbian, Croatian and Bosnian) which are all based on the Shtokavian dialect. As such, \"Serbo-Croatian\" is an arbitrary term applied to a language spoken by several ethnic groups, including the Bosniaks, and is for various reasons controversial for native speakers who do not use the term. As result, paraphrases such as \"Serbo-Croat-Bosnian (SCB)\" or \"Bosnian/Croatian/Serbian (BCS)\" tend to be used in English on occasion.\n\nAt the vernacular level, Bosniaks are more linguistically homogeneous than Serbs or Croats who also speak non-standard dialects beside Shtokavian. With respect to lexicon, Bosnian is characterized by its larger number of Ottoman Turkish (as well as Arabic and Persian) loanwords (called \"Orientalisms\") in relation to the other Serbo-Croatian varieties.\n\nThe first official dictionary in the Bosnian language was published in 1992. Church Slavonic is attested since at least the Kingdom of Bosnia; the Charter of Ban Kulin, written in Cyrillic, remains one of the oldest written South Slavic state documents.\n\nThe modern Bosnian language principally uses the Latin alphabet. However, Cyrillic (popularly termed Bosnian Cyrillic or \"Bosančica\") was employed much earlier, as evident in medieval charters and on monumental tombstones (\"stećci\") found scattered throughout the landscape. One of the most important documents is the Charter of Ban Kulin, which is regarded by Bosnian authors as one of the oldest official recorded documents to be written in Bosnian Cyrillic. The use of Cyrillic was largely replaced by Arebica (\"Matufovica\"), a Bosnian variant of the Perso-Arabic script, upon the introduction of Islam in the 15th century, first among the elite, then amongst the public, and was commonly used up until the 19th century.\n\nLike many other elements of Bosniak culture, Bosniak folklore is derived from European, Slavic and Ottoman influences, typically taking place prior to the 19th century. Generally, folklore also varies from region to region and city to city. Cities like Sarajevo and Mostar have a rich tradition all by themselves. Many man-made structures such as bridges and fountains, as well as natural sites, also play a significant role. At the very roots of the Bosniak folk soul are the national music genres called Sevdalinka and Ilahije.\n\nThere are many signs of pagan practices being carried over first into Christianity and later into Islam in Bosnia and Herzegovina – for example, the use of the mountain tops as a place of worship, and the name of pagan gods, such as Perun and Thor, that survived in oral tradition until the twentieth century. Slavic traditions such as dragons, fairies and \"Vila\", are also present. Fairies are often mentioned in Bosniak epics, poetry and folk songs. Well known are \"gorske vile\", or fairies from the mountains which dance on very green meadows. The cult of post-pagan Perun survived as the day of Elijah the Thunderer which was another important event for Bosnian Muslims. Muhamed Hadžijahić mentions: \"In Muslim celebration of this holiday, we see traces of ancient pagan traditions related to cult of sun and rain.\" This tradition is among Bosnian Muslims known as Aliđun and among the Serbs as Ilijevdan. Pre-Slavic influences are far less common but nonetheless present. Certain elements of paleo-Balkan beliefs have also been found. One of these traditions which could originate from the pre-Slavic era, is a Bosniak tradition of placing a horse's scull tied with a rope into river Bosna, to fight off drought. \"Djevojačka pećina\", or the \"Maiden's Cave\", is a traditional place of the 'Rain Prayer' near Kladanj in north-eastern Bosnia, where Bosnian Muslims gather to pray for the soul of the maiden whose grave is said to be at the entrance to the cave. This tradition is of pre-Islamic origin and is a place where the followers of the medieval Bosnian Church held their pilgrimage. Another Bosnian Muslim place of pilgrimage is Ajvatovica near Prusac in central Bosnia and Herzegovina, which is the largest Islamic traditional, religious and cultural event in Europe, and is a place where devout Bosnian Muslims remember and give thanks to the founder of the holy site, Ajvaz-dedo, whose forty day prayers were heard by Allah and much needed water came out of a rock that had split open in a miraculous act. Even though the pilgrimage at Ajvatovica is a marking of the sixteenth-century conversion to Islam in Bosnia, the tradition of this event is also linked to the pre-Islamic cult of St George's Day, and not to any of Hijri calendars. The green banners of Islam, takbir's and nasheed's are an integral part of the Ajvatovica's spirit. The procession is approaching shahid's cemetery from the time of Mehmed the Conqueror and prays with Sūrat al-Fātiḥah to martyrs of Bosnia. Other important Islamic holy sites are the khanqah's, dervish houses of prayer, where members of the Sufi mystical order gather around their leaders to engage in religious contemplation and rituals. One of the oldest is the 15th century Isa-beg's tekke (Isa-begova tekija) in Sarajevo.\n\nNational heroes are typically historical figures, whose lives and skills in battle are emphasized. These include figures such as Ban Kulin, the founder of medieval Bosnia who has come to acquire a legendary status. The historian William Miller wrote in 1921 that \"even today, the people regard him as a favorite of the fairies, and his reign as a golden age.\"; King Tvrtko I of Bosnia, King during the peak of the Bosnian kingdom; Gazi Husrev-beg, the second Ottoman governor of Bosnia who conquered many territories in Dalmatia, Northern Bosnia, and Croatia; Đerzelez Alija, an almost mythical character who even the Ottoman Sultan was said to have called \"A Hero\", Sokollu Mehmed Pasha (Mehmed-paša Sokolović), the Bosnian Ottoman Grand Vizier, whose heroism was depicted in the Bosnian poetry and folk songs and Husein Gradaščević, known as \"The Dragon of Bosnia\" who led the Bosnian uprising against the Ottomans in the 19th century.\n\nThe nation takes pride in the native melancholic folk songs \"sevdalinka\", the precious medieval filigree manufactured by old Sarajevo craftsmen, and a wide array of traditional wisdom transmitted to newer generations by word of mouth, but in recent years written down in numerous books. Another prevalent tradition is \"Muštuluk\", whereby a gift is owed to any bringer of good news.\n\nRural folk traditions in Bosnia include the shouted, polyphonic ganga and ravne pjesme (\"flat song\") styles, as well as instruments like a wooden flute and šargija. The gusle, an instrument found throughout the Balkans, is also used to accompany ancient South Slavic epic poems. The most versatile and skillful gusle-performer of Bosniak ethnicity was the Montenegrin Bosniak Avdo Međedović (1875–1953).\nBosniaks have also at an international level left behind a musical legacy to the rest of Europe, and some examples of this is the 16th century lutenist-composer from Venice, Franciscus Bossinensis, and the Austrian-Jewish opera composer Alexander von Zemlinsky who was partly of Bosnian Muslim origin.\n\nProbably the most distinctive and identifiably Bosniak of music, \"Sevdalinka\" is a kind of emotional, melancholic folk song that often describes sad subjects such as love and loss, the death of a dear person or heartbreak. Sevdalinkas were traditionally performed with a saz, a Turkish string instrument, which was later replaced by the accordion. However the more modern arrangement, to the derision of some purists, is typically a vocalist accompanied by the accordion along with snare drums, upright bass, guitars, clarinets and violins. Sevdalinkas are unique to Bosnia and Herzegovina. They arose in Ottoman Bosnia as urban Bosnian music with often oriental influences. In the early 19th century, Bosniak poet Umihana Čuvidina contributed greatly to sevdalinka with her poems about her lost love, which she sang. The poets which in large has contributed to the rich heritage of Bosniak people, include among others Derviš-paša Bajezidagić, Abdullah Bosnevi, Hasan Kafi Pruščak, Abdurrahman Sirri, Abdulvehab Ilhamija, Mula Mustafa Bašeskija, Hasan Kaimija, Ivan Franjo Jukić, Safvet-beg Bašagić, Musa Ćazim Ćatić, Mak Dizdar, as many prominent prose writers, such as Enver Čolaković, Skender Kulenović, Meša Selimović (although he declared himself as a Serb), Abdulah Sidran, Nedžad Ibrišimović, Zaim Topčić and Zlatko Topčić. Historical journals as \"Gajret\", \"Behar\" and \"Bošnjak\" are some of the most prominent publications, which in a big way contributed to the preservation of the Bosniak identity in late 19th and early 20th century. The Bosnian literature, are generally known for their ballads; \"The Mourning Song of the Noble Wife of the Hasan Aga\" (or better known as Hasanaginica), \"Smrt Omera i Merime\" (Omer and Merimas death) and \"Smrt braće Morića\" (The death of brothers Morić). Hasanaginica were told from generation to generation in oral form, until it was finally written and published in 1774 by an Italian anthropologist, Alberto Fortis, in his book \"Viaggio in Dalmazia\" ('A travel across Dalmatia'). Hasanaginica is considered as the one of the most beautiful ballads ever written, and were subsequently translated to German (Johann Wolfgang Goethe, 1775), English (Walter Scott, 1798), Russian (Aleksandr Pushkin, 1835), French (Prosper Mérimée, 1827, and Adam Mickiewicz, 1841) and other world's languages, becoming an integral part of the world literary heritage already in the 18th century.\n\nThe Bosnian Muslims (Bosniaks) are traditionally and predominantly Sunni Muslim. Historically Sufism has also played a significant role among the Bosnian Muslims who tended to favor more mainstream Sunni orders such as the Naqshbandiyya, Rifa'i and Qadiriyya. There are also Bosniaks who can be categorized as Nondenominational Muslims and Cultural Muslims. The Bosnian Islamic community has also been influenced by other currents within Islam than the one in Bosnia and Herzegovina prevailing Hanafi school, especially since the 1990s war. The position of Sufism in Bosnia during the Ottoman era was legally the same as in other parts of the empire. Bosnian Sufis produced literature, often in oriental languages (Arabic and Turkish), although a few also wrote in Serbo-Croatian, such as Abdurrahman Sirri (1785-1846/47) and Abdulwahāb Žepčewī (1773–1821). Another Sufi from Bosnia was Sheikh Hali Hamza, whose doctrines were considered to contradict the official interpretation of Islam. His supporters \"hamzevije\" formed a religious movement that is often described as a sect closely related to the tariqa of \"bajrami-melami\". Another prominent Bosniak Sufi was Hasan Kafi Pruščak, a Sufi thinker and the most prominent figure of the scientific literature and intellectual life of the 16th century Bosniaks.\n\nIn a 1998 public opinion poll, 78.3% of Bosniaks in the Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina declared themselves to be religious. Bosnian Muslims tend to often be described as moderate, secular and European-oriented compared to other Muslim groups. Bosniaks have been described as \"Cultural Muslims\" or \"Progressive Muslims\".\n\nKjell Magnusson points out that religion played a major role in the processes that shaped the national movements and the formation of the new states in the Balkans after the Ottoman retreat, since the Ottomans distinguished peoples after their religious affiliations. Although religion only plays a minor role in the daily lives of the ethnic groups of Bosnia and Herzegovina today, the following stereotypes are still rather current, namely, that the Serbs are Orthodox, the Croats Catholic and the Bosniaks Muslim; those native Bosnians who remained Christian and did not convert to Islam over time came to identify as ethnic Serb or Croat, helping to explain the apparent ethnic mix in Bosnia-Herzegovina. Still, however, there are a few individuals who violate the aforementioned pattern and practice other religions actively, often due to intermarriage.\n\nBosniak surnames, as is typical among the South Slavs from former Yugoslavia, often end with \"ić\" or \"ović\". This is a patronymic which basically translates to \"son of\" in English and plays the same role as \"son\" in English surnames such as Johnson or Wilson. What comes prior to this can often tell a lot about the history of a certain family.\n\nMost Bosniak surnames follow a familiar pattern dating from the period of time that surnames in Bosnia and Herzegovina were standardized. Some Bosniak Muslim surnames have the name of the founder of the family first, followed by an Islamic profession or title, and ending with ić. Examples of this include Izetbegović (Son of Izet bey), and Hadžiosmanović (\"son of Osman Hajji\"). Other variations of this pattern can include surnames that only mention the name, such as Osmanović (\"son of Osman\"), and surnames that only mention profession, such as Imamović (\"son of the Imam\"). Some even mention religion as well such as \"Muslimović\" (\"meaning son of a Muslim\").\n\nQuite a few Bosniak surnames do not necessarily have Islamic roots to them, but end in -ović and -ić; common amongst Slavic surnames. These surnames have probably stayed the same since medieval times, and typically come from old Bosnian nobility, or come from the last wave of converts to Islam. Examples of such surnames include Tvrtković and Kulenović.\n\nThere are also other surnames that do not end in ić at all. These surnames are typically derived from place of origin, occupations, or various others such factors in the family's history. Examples of such surnames include Zlatar (\"goldsmith\") Kovač (\"blacksmith\") or Kolar (\"wheelwright\").\n\nThere are some Bosniak surnames of foreign origin, indicating that the founder of the family came from a place outside Bosnia and Herzegovina. Many such Bosniak surnames have Albanian, Vlach, Turkic or Arab origins. Examples of such surnames include Arnautović (from Arnaut - Turkish ethnonym used to denote Albanians), Vlasić (from Vlach people), Tatarević (from Tatar people) and Arapović (from Arap - Turkish ethnonym used to denote Arabs). There are also some surnames which are presumed to be of pre-Slavic origin. Some examples of such surnames may be of Illyrian or Celtic origin, such as the surname Mataruga and Motoruga.\n\nMany Bosniak surnames are also common as Croatian and Serbian surnames: Puškar, Jašić, Sučić, Subašić, Begić, Hadžić.\n\nGiven names or first names among Bosniaks have mostly Arabic, or Turkish, roots such as Osman, Mehmed, Muhamed, Alija, Ismet, Kemal, Hasan, Ibrahim, Mustafa, Ahmed, Husein, Hamza, Haris, Halid, Refik, Tarik, Faruk, Abdulah, Amer, Sulejman, Mahir, Enver, and many others. South Slavic given names such as \"Zlatan\" or \"Zlatko\" are also present primarily among non-religious Bosniaks. What is notable however is that due to the structure of the Bosnian language, many of the Muslim given names have been altered to create uniquely Bosniak given names. Some of the Oriental given names have been shortened. For example: Huso short for Husein, Ahmo short for Ahmed, Meho short for Mehmed. One example of this is that of the Bosniak humorous characters Mujo and Suljo, whose given names are actually Bosniak short forms of Mustafa and Sulejman. More present still is the transformation of given names that in Arabic or Turkish are confined to one gender to apply to the other sex. In Bosnian, simply taking away the letter \"a\" changes the traditionally feminine \"Jasmina\" into the popular male name \"Jasmin\". Similarly, adding an \"a\" to the typically male \"Mahir\" results in the feminine \"Mahira\".\n\nThe traditional symbol of the Bosniak people is a fleur-de-lis coat of arms, decorated with six golden lilies, also referred to Lilium bosniacum, a native lily of the region. This Bosniak national symbol is derived from the coat of arms of the medieval Kingdom of Bosnia, and was particularly used in the context of the rule of Bosnian King Tvrtko I of Bosnia. According to some sources, the Bosnian coat of arms, with six golden lilies, originated from the French descended Capetian House of Anjou. The member of this dynasty, Louis I of Hungary, was married to Elizabeth of Bosnia, daughter of the ban Stephen II of Bosnia, with Tvrtko I consequently embracing the heraldic lily as a symbol of the Bosnian royalty in token of the familial relations between the Angevins and the Bosnian royal family. It is also likely that the Bosnians adopted, or were granted, the fleur-de-lis on their coat of arms as a reward for taking the Angevin side.\n\nThis emblem was revived in 1992 as a symbol of Bosnian nationhood and represented the flag of the Republic of Bosnia and Herzegovina between 1992 and 1998. Although the state insignia was replaced in 1999 on request of the other two ethnic groups, the flag of the Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina still features a fleur-de-lis alongside the Croatian chequy. The Bosnian fleur-de-lis also appears on the flags and arms of many cantons, municipalities, cities and towns. It is still used as official insignia of the Bosniak regiment of the Armed Forces of Bosnia and Herzegovina. The Fleur-de-lis can also be commonly found as ornament in mosques and on Muslim tombstones. Swedish historian Senimir Resić states that the emblem of the fleur-de-lis (symbolizing the Christian Middle Ages) which become a national symbol of Bosniaks in 1992, was, in that time of war and Islamophobia, intended to draw attention to the Western world of the Christian and medieval European past of the Bosnian Muslims.\n\nAnother Bosniak flag dates from the Ottoman era, and is a white crescent moon and star on a green background. The flag was also the symbol of the short-lived independent Bosnia in the 19th century and of the Bosnian uprising against the Turks led by Husein Gradaščević.\n\nNational consciousness has also spread to most Bosniaks in the neighboring countries and increasingly around the world after the Bosnian war. The largest number of Bosniaks outside Bosnia and Herzegovina are found in Serbia and Montenegro (specifically in the Sandžak region). The city of Novi Pazar is home to the largest Bosniak population outside Bosnia. Another 40,000 Bosniaks are found in Croatia and 38,000 in Slovenia. However, some of them still identify themselves as \"Muslims\" or \"Bosnians\", according to latest estimates. In Macedonia there are estimated to be about 17,000 Bosniaks.\n\nDue to warfare and ethnic cleansing during the war in Bosnia and Herzegovina, a large part of the world's estimated 3–4 million Bosniaks are found in countries outside the Balkans. The highest Bosniak populations outside the ex-Yugoslavian states are found in the United States, Sweden, Austria, Germany, Switzerland, Australia, Canada, and Turkey. Prior generations of Bosniak immigrants to some of these countries have by now been mostly integrated.\n\nIn Western countries, a large majority of the Bosniaks are war refugees who only arrived in these countries beginning in the 1990s. They still speak Bosnian, and maintain cultural and religious communities, visit their mother country regularly and send remittances to families back home.\n\nThere is a significant Bosniak diaspora in the rest of Europe, Turkey, United States and Canada.\n\n\n\nBooks\n\nJournals\n\n"}
{"id": "13353120", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13353120", "title": "British Band", "text": "British Band\n\nThe British Band was a mixed-nation group of Native Americans commanded by the Sauk leader Black Hawk, which fought against Illinois and Michigan Territory militias during the 1832 Black Hawk War. The band was composed of about 1,500 men, women, and children from the Sauk, Meskwaki, Fox, Kickapoo, Potawatomi, Ho-Chunk, and Ottawa nations; about 500 of that number were warriors. Black Hawk had an alliance with the British that dated from the War of 1812, giving them their colloquial name. The band crossed the Mississippi River from Iowa into Illinois in an attempt to reclaim their homeland and in violation of several treaties. Subsequently, both the Illinois and Michigan Territory militia were called up and the Black Hawk War ensued.\n\nThe British Band was victorious at the Battle of Stillman's Run and the military engagements that followed were insignificant until the final two encounters: the Wisconsin Heights and the Bad Axe River. Band members who survived the war were either imprisoned or returned home. All the prisoners taken following the conflict were released by Winfield Scott at the end of August 1832, except Black Hawk who was taken east. In 1833 he dictated his autobiography, the first Native American autobiography published in the United States.\n\nSauk warrior Black Hawk, the leader of a band of Sauks near Rock Island at Saukenuk, was always in opposition to ceding Native American lands to white settlers and their governments. Black Hawk supported the invalidity of the Treaty of St. Louis (1804) of both the Sauk and Fox nations negotiated with the then Indiana Territory Governor William Henry Harrison. The treaty ceded territory, including Black Hawk's birthplace Saukenuk, to the United States. The Sauk are a consensus decision making society. Their representatives exceeded the authorization of merely taking under consideration what terms the United States government might put forth, bring them back to reach a consensus and then return with their treaty terms. The lack of the tribe discussing the treaty prior to being made official made it invalid by Black Hawk and other members of the tribe. The representatives never had the tribal authorization to unilaterally cede its lands.\n\nDuring the War of 1812 between the United Kingdom and the United States, Colonel Robert Dickson, an English fur trader, amassed a sizable force of Native Americans at Green Bay to assist the British in operations around the Great Lakes. Most of the warriors Dickson assembled were from the Potawatomi, Ho-Chunk, Kickapoo and Ottawa tribes. Dickson bestowed the rank of brevet Brigadier General on Black Hawk. He was given command of all Native Americans gathered at Green Bay, including the 200 Sauk warriors under Black Hawk's control. Black Hawk was then presented with a silk flag, a medal, and a written certificate of good behavior and alliance with the British. The certificate would be found 20 years later, after the Battle of Bad Axe, carefully preserved along with a flag similar to the one Dickson gave to Black Hawk.\n\nDuring the 1812 war, Black Hawk and his warriors fought in several engagements with Henry Procter on the borders of Lake Erie. He returned home to Saukenuk to find his rival Keokuk had become the tribe's war chief. After the war ended, Black Hawk signed a peace treaty in May 1816 that re-affirmed the treaty of 1804, a provision Black Hawk later protested ignorance of.\n\nDespite opposition by Keokuk and the US authorities, Black Hawk's band returned to Saukenuk in 1830 following their winter hunt. A year later they returned again, and Illinois Governor John Reynolds proclaimed it an \"invasion of the state.\"\n\nResponding to Illinois Governor John Reynolds' call, General Edmund Pendleton Gaines brought his federal troops from St. Louis, Missouri to Saukenuk to insist on Black Hawk's immediate departure. Black Hawk left but soon returned to the west side of the Mississippi, threatened by Gaines' troops and an additional 1,400 militia called up by Reynolds on 25 June 1831. On 30 June, Black Hawk and the chiefs of the British Band were forced to sign a surrender agreement in which they promised to remain west of the Mississippi.\n\nAt the end of 1831, stories spread throughout the settlements of the Upper Mississippi River Valley that the British planned to aid Black Hawk in the event of a war with the white settlers. According to U.S. Indian Agent Felix St. Vrain, a known ne'er-do-well named Billy Caldwell had delivered a message to the Sauk which reported the alleged British intentions. The \"New Galenian\" of Galena reported that Black Hawk's band would receive aid and ammunition from the British, and the tale was widely believed. The militia commander at Fort Armstrong, Major John Bliss, informed General Henry Atkinson of the rumor, and said a follower of Keokuk had reported to him that Black Hawk and Neapope were holding talks with bands of Potawatomi, Kickapoo, and Ho-Chunk. The talks mentioned the promises of the British, as well as word that the French Canadians intended to assist them. These events, combined with Black Hawk's 1812 alliance with the British, and occasional visits to Canada, attributed to his 1832 band becoming known by the moniker British Band. The term British Band was used frequently by American, Sauk, and Fox observers alike and served to distinguish Black Hawk's group from the rest of the tribes.\n\nThe British Band had three key leaders, Black Hawk, the Ho-Chunk prophet Wabokieshiek (White Cloud), and Neapope. There were seven civil chiefs besides Neapope and Wabokieshiek, and five war captains including Black Hawk. The other civil chiefs in the band were: Pamisseau, Weesheet, Chakeepashipabo, Checokalako, Ioway, Pamaho, and Towaunonne; the four other war captains were: Menacou, Makatauaupuat, Pashetowat, and Kinnekonnesaut. The band was composed of about 500 warriors and 1,000 old men, women and children when they crossed the Mississippi on 5 April. The group included members of the Sauk, Fox and Kickapoo Nations. They crossed the river near the mouth of the Iowa River and then followed the Rock River northeast. Along the way they passed the ruins of Saukenuk and headed for the village of Ho-Chunk prophet White Cloud.\n\nAs the war progressed factions of other tribes would join, or attempt to join Black Hawk, and others would carry out acts of violence for their own personal reasons amidst the chaos of the war. In one example a band of hostile Ho-Chunk intent on joining Black Hawk's Band attacked and killed the party of Felix St. Vrain after the outbreak of war in an event that became known as the St. Vrain massacre. This act, was, however, an exception as most Ho-Chunk sided with the United States during the Black Hawk War. The warriors that attacked St. Vrain's party acted with no authority or oversight from the Ho-Chunk nation. Sympathetic Potawatomi warriors also joined with Black Hawk's Band in the months between April and August.\n\nWhen Black Hawk's Band crossed the Mississippi River from Iowa in April 1832 to return to their homeland in the Rock River Valley, it was under a British flag. Potawatomi Chief Shabbona stated it was the same flag that had been given on a visit to the British in Malden, Ontario, Canada. Observers at the time, from George Davenport, to St. Vrain, were certain that Black Hawk's intentions were to wage war against the United States. Historians generally believe that a more decisive action by General Atkinson, charged with prosecuting the war, in stopping Black Hawk's Band from moving up the Rock River may have prevented the war. Zachary Taylor made similar observations shortly after the war ended.\n\nIn response to Black Hawk and his band's movements, Governor Reynolds issued a proclamation on 16 April, mustering five brigades of volunteers to form at Beardstown and to head north to force Black Hawk out of Illinois. Although one-third of all federal troops from the United States Army were eventually involved in the conflict, the 9,000 soldiers from the Illinois Militia provided the majority of U.S. combatants.\n\nThe first named confrontation of the Black Hawk War occurred on 14 May 1832 and resulted in an unexpected victory for Black Hawk's band of Sauk and Fox warriors over the disorganized militia under the command of Isaiah Stillman. Soon after the Battle of Stillman's Run, at present-day Stillman Valley, the exaggerated claim that 2,000 \"bloodthirsty warriors ... sweeping all northern Illinois with the bosom of destruction\" sent shock waves of terror through the region. After this initial skirmish, Black Hawk led many of the civilians in his band to the Michigan Territory. On 19 May, the militia traveled up the Rock River trailing and searching for Black Hawk and his band. Several small skirmishes and massacres ensued over the next month in northern Illinois and present-day southern Wisconsin before the militia was able to regain public confidence in battles at Horseshoe Bend and Waddams Grove.\nBlack Hawk himself led warriors in several battles, including Stillman's Run, the Battle of Apple River Fort on 24 June, the Second Battle of Kellogg's Grove on 25 June, and the final two battles at Wisconsin Heights and Bad Axe. Besides the major victory at Stillman's Run Black Hawk's Band was involved in several other battles and skirmishes during the Black Hawk War. Several of the small skirmishes and massacres that occurred following Stillman's Run were attributed to bands of Native Americans unaffiliated with Black Hawk's Band, though many were likely sympathetic or intent on joining him. The events at Spafford Farm were attributed to a band of Kickapoo loosely affiliated with the British Band.\n\nAfter the massacre, General Henry Atkinson was informed that Henry Dodge was to take over General Alexander Posey's brigade at Fort Hamilton. While Dodge was on his way to visit the brigade, he heard a rifle shot from a group of Native Americans. Dodge quickly returned to his command post and gathered as many men as he could to pursue the enemy. With Dodge in quick pursuit, a group of approximately 11 Native warriors criss-crossed the Pecatonica River until, finding flight hopeless, they prepared to make a stand at the Battle of Horseshoe Bend.\n\nThe battle at Horseshoe Bend and a small, largely insignificant militarily, battle at Waddams Grove, helped restore public confidence in the Illinois Militia after the victory by the British Band at Stillman's Run. The British Band attacked the Apple River Fort, where a pitched battle was fought resulting in Black Hawk withdrawing his forces. Subsequent fighting at Kellogg's Grove has been called victory for both sides and the skirmishes resulted in 8 dead militia men and at least 15 dead British Band warriors.\n\nOn 21 July 1832, Illinois and Wisconsin militia men under the command of Generals Henry Dodge and James D. Henry caught up with Black Hawk's British Band near present-day Sauk City, Wisconsin. The clash became known as the Battle of Wisconsin Heights. Militarily, the battle was devastating for Black Hawk's band of warriors; including those who drowned during the melee, casualty estimates climbed as high as 70. Despite the relatively high casualties the battle did allow much of the Band, including many women and children, to escape across the Wisconsin River.\n\nThe militia regrouped at Fort Blue Mounds and picked up Black Hawk's trail again on 28 July near Spring Green, Wisconsin. When they finally caught up with the British Band, it would lead to the decisive clash of the war at Bad Axe. At the mouth of the Bad Axe River, hundreds of men, women and children would be killed by pursuing soldiers, their Indian allies, and a U.S. gunboat.\n\nThe members of the British Band, and the Fox, Kickapoo, Sauk and Ho-Chunk and Potawatomi that later joined them, suffered unknown numbers of dead during the war. While some died fighting, others were tracked down and killed by Sioux, Menominee, Ho-Chunk, and other native tribes. Still others died of starvation or drowned during the Band's long trek up the Rock River toward the mouth of the Bad Axe. The entire British Band was not wiped out at Bad Axe; some survivors drifted back home to their villages. This was relatively simple for the Potawatomi and Ho-Chunk of the band. Many Sauk and Fox found return to their homes more difficult, and while some returned safely others were held in custody by the army. Prisoners, some taken at the Battle of Bad Axe, and others taken by U.S.-aligned Native American tribes in the following weeks, were taken to Fort Armstrong. About 120 prisoners — men, women, and children, waited until the end of August to be released by General Winfield Scott.\n\nWith most of the British Band dead and the rest captured or disbanded, the defeated Black Hawk was held in captivity at Jefferson Barracks with Neapope, White Cloud, and eight other leaders of the British Band. After 8 months, in April 1833 they were taken east, as ordered by then U.S. President Andrew Jackson. The men traveled by steamboat, carriage, and railroad, and met with large crowds wherever they went. Once in Washington, D.C., they met with Jackson and Secretary of War Lewis Cass, though their final destination was prison at Fortress Monroe in Virginia. They stayed only a few weeks at the prison, during which they mostly posed for multiple portraits by different artists. On 5 June 1833, the men were sent west by steamboat on a circuitous route that took them through many large cities. Again, the men were a spectacle everywhere they went, and met with huge crowds of people in cities such as New York, Baltimore and Philadelphia. Reaction in the west, however, was much different. For instance, in Detroit, a crowd burned and hanged effigies of the prisoners.\n\nNear the end of his captivity in 1833, Black Hawk told his life story to a government interpreter, which was edited by a local reporter and became the first Native American autobiography published in the United States. The \"Autobiography of Ma-Ka-Tai-Me-She-Kia-Kiak, or Black Hawk, Embracing the Traditions of his Nation, Various Wars in Which He Has Been Engaged, and His Account of the Cause and General History of the Black Hawk War of 1832, His Surrender, and Travels Through the United States. Also Life, Death and Burial of the Old Chief, Together with a History of the Black Hawk War\" was published in 1882 in Oquawka, Illinois, as interpreted by Antoine LeClair and edited by J.B. Patterson.\n\n"}
{"id": "50201593", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50201593", "title": "Daniel Radcliffe on screen and stage", "text": "Daniel Radcliffe on screen and stage\n\nDaniel Radcliffe is an English actor who has appeared on film, television and stage. He is best known for playing the role of Harry Potter in the eight-movie film series of the same name between 2001-2011\n"}
{"id": "12142860", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12142860", "title": "Dick Donato", "text": "Dick Donato\n\nRichard Louis Donato (born June 24, 1963) is a bar manager from Los Angeles, California. He was the winner of the reality game show \"Big Brother 8\". He and his daughter, Daniele Donato, are the only family member pair to win the American \"Big Brother\" program's top two prizes in the same competition. Dick holds the record as the show's oldest winner (age 44 at the time), and Daniele is the youngest person (having turned 21 during the competition) ever to win one of the American program's top two prizes. Dick returned for Season 13 of Big Brother as a team with his daughter Daniele, but departed the show citing \"personal reasons\" during the first week. In 2014, Donato announced that the reason he departed the show was due to a positive HIV diagnosis.\n\nDonato was a stand-in for Keith Richards in the motion picture \"\". Because of Donato's claims to have met, known, or even dated various celebrities, he has been accused of lying just to drop names. However, Dizzy Reed of the rock band Guns N' Roses says that Donato is not a name dropper, that people drop his name. The nickname \"Evel Dick\" originated with an email address Donato once made up. Donato is the father of Vincent and Daniele Donato.\n\nDonato said he planned to use a portion of the $500,000 to pay for his daughter's college education. Although directly splitting prize winnings was banned by contest rules, he could legally pay for his daughter's education and buy presents. On Wednesday, March 19, 2008 episode of \"Big Brother 9\", Donato revealed that he had taken Daniele Donato to Europe and bought her a red car with his prize money.\n\nDonato was nominated for and won the Golden Realitini for Favorite Reality Performer in the Fox Reality Really Awards for 2007 against Len Goodman, New York, Sanjaya Malakar, Ant (comedian), and Christopher Knight & Adrianne Curry. He was also nominated for Best Winner, Favorite Villain (which he also won), Favorite Potty Mouth, and Best Fight for his confrontation with Jen Johnson. Fox Reality Channel recorded the ceremony on October 2, 2007, and aired it on October 13.\n\nIn 2009, \"TV Guide\" Named \"Evel Dick\" Donato on the list of \"Evil Reality TV Villains\" placing him on the list next to 12 others including Simon Cowell and Gordon Ramsay \n\nIn 2010, Donato was cast as the villain in Evan Pedone's horror film GPS, and is scheduled to also play in \"Expedition Everest.\" \n\nIn 2011, Donato returned to Big Brother on the thirteenth season of the American Big Brother alongside his daughter despite reports they had not spoken to each other for three years. He left the house on day 6 of the show stating that something bad had happened to someone close to him. It was later revealed that the show's medical staff had discovered that he was HIV positive and provided that information to him in the Diary Room.\n\nDonato currently hosts an online Big Brother recap show called Dick at Night on https://vimeo.com/eveldick featuring Big Brother alumni, various celebrities, and evicted Big Brother houseguests.\n\nDonato is a cast member on Season 5 of Couples Therapy on VH1 with Dr. Jenn Berman. On October 1, 2014 Donato revealed on the show that he has been living with HIV since 2011. He told People Magazine he does not know how he contracted the disease, but he suspects that it happened during unprotected sex with a stripper in Las Vegas after a long night of drinking.\n\n"}
{"id": "1643736", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1643736", "title": "Don Gant", "text": "Don Gant\n\nDonald W. Gant (October 24, 1942 – March 15, 1987) was an American singer, songwriter and record producer.\n\nWith Tupper Saussy, in the late 1960s he formed \"The Neon Philharmonic.\" Singing vocals, with Saussy on the keyboards, they recorded five singles and two albums for Warner Bros. Records between 1969 and 1971. The albums were \"The Moth Confesses\" (1969), containing the duo's biggest hit \"Morning Girl\" (peaked at #17 on 7–14 June 1969), and the eponymous \"The Neon Philharmonic\" (1969).\n\nIn Nashville, Tennessee he worked at Acuff-Rose Music as a songwriter and as an executive. He wrote a number of songs himself and co-wrote with Joe Melson. Songwriter Mickey Newbury said of Gant that there are \"A lot of songwriters you'd never have heard of if it wasn't for Don Gant.\" Gant also produced records for singers Jimmy Buffett, Lefty Frizzell, Eddy Raven, Roy Orbison when he was with MGM Records and others and eventually joined ABC Records.\n\nDon Gant died unexpectedly at the age of 44 in Nashville of complications following a serious boating accident in Florida.\n"}
{"id": "29546120", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29546120", "title": "Drummer (military)", "text": "Drummer (military)\n\nA drummer was responsible for the drums in the army for use on the battlefield. Drums were part of the field music for hundreds of years, being introduced by the Ottomans to Europe. Chinese armies however had used drums even before that. With the professionalization of armies, military music was developed as well. Drums were not only used for the men to march in step, but were an important part of the battlefield communications system, with various drum rolls used to signal different commands from officers to troops. By the second half of the 18th century, most, -if not all western armies had a standardized set of marches and signals to be played, often accompanied by fifers.\n\nThe romantic idea about drummers is that they were young boys (for instance the Christmas carol \"The Little Drummer Boy\", or the painting \"Steady the Drums\"). The fact, though, is that drummers were more often adult men, recruited like the common soldiers. Fifers, on the other hand, being not an official part of the regiments early on, were usually recruited from young boys. During the second half of the 19th century, it was accepted in many western armies that under aged boys served as drummers. \n\nAlthough there were usually official age limits, these were often ignored; the youngest boys were sometimes treated as mascots by the adult soldiers. The life of a drummer boy appeared rather glamorous and as a result, boys would sometimes run away from home to enlist. Other boys may have been the sons or orphans of soldiers serving in the same unit. The image of a small child in the midst of battle was seen as deeply poignant by 19th-century artists, and idealised boy drummers were frequently depicted in paintings, sculpture and poetry.\n\nNathan Futrell (1773–1829) was said to have been the youngest drummer boy in the American War of Independence; he joined the North Carolina Continental Militia at the age of 7.\n\nIn 1793, Joseph Bara, a 14-year-old French Republican drummer at the time of the War in the Vendée, was killed by royalist counter-revolutionaries, supposedly while he was shouting \"Long live the Republic!\". His body was interred at the Panthéon along with other national heroes.\n\nAndré Estienne was a drummer with Napoleon Bonaparte's army at the Battle of the Bridge of Arcole in 1796, where he led his battalion across a river while holding his drum over his head, and on reaching the far bank, beat the \"charge\". This led to the capture of the bridge and the rout of the Austrian army. Despite being 19 years old, he became famous as \"Le Petit Tambour d'Arcole\" (), and is depicted in the Panthéon in Paris and on the Arc de Triomphe, also in paintings by Charles Thévenin and Horace Vernet.\n\nOn 19 April 1855, at the Siege of Sevastopol during the Crimean War, there was a bayonet attack by the British 77th Regiment of Foot on some rifle pits which the Russians were using to snipe at British positions. Accompanying the attack was an unnamed drummer boy of the 77th, who seeing a Russian boy trumpeter trying to escape, caught hold of him and beat him with his fists \"in truly British fashion\" until he surrendered. The boy presented the Russian trumpet to Sir George Brown and he was later rewarded by General Lord Raglan, the British commander.\n\nAt the Siege of Lucknow during the Indian Rebellion of 1857, 12-year-old Drummer Ross of the 93rd Highlanders signalled the arrival of his regiment to the besieged garrison, by climbing the spire of the Shah Najaf Mosque and playing the regimental march on his bugle, while under heavy fire from the rebel forces.\n\nOn 28 November at the Second Battle of Cawnpore, 15-year-old Thomas Flynn, a drummer with the 64th Regiment of Foot, was awarded the Victoria Cross. \"During a charge on the enemy's guns, Drummer Flynn, although wounded himself, engaged in a hand-to-hand encounter with two of the rebel artillerymen\". He remains the youngest recipient of the medal.\nThirteen-year-old Charles King was the youngest soldier killed in the entire American Civil War (1861–1865). Charles enlisted in the 49th Pennsylvania Volunteer Infantry with the reluctant permission of his father at the age of 12 years, 5 months and 9 days. On September 17, 1862 at the Battle of Antietam he was mortally wounded near or in the area of the East Woods, carried from the field and died three days later. Twelve-year-old drummer boy William Black was the youngest recorded person wounded in battle during the American Civil War. John Clem, who had unofficially joined a Union Army regiment at the age of 9 as a drummer and mascot, became famous as \"The Drummer Boy of Chickamauga\" where he played a \"long roll\" and shot a Confederate officer who had demanded his surrender. An 11-year-old drummer in the Confederate Orphan Brigade, known only as \"Little Oirish\", was credited with rallying troops at the Battle of Shiloh by taking up the regimental colors at a critical moment.\n\nIn Costa Rica, the Drummer boy Juan Santamaría died in an act of self-sacrifice in the war against the US Filibuster William Walker and is commemorated as his country's National Hero.\n\nThe use of drums beyond the parade ground declined rapidly as the 19th century progressed, being replaced by the bugle in the signalling role, although it was often the drummers who were required to play them. A widely reported incident at the Battle of Isandlwana during the Anglo-Zulu War of 1879, spelled the end of boys being sent on active service by the British Army. Part of the British force returned to their camp at night to find that it had been overrun by the Zulu army a few hours previously. An eyewitness reported that \"Even the little drummer boys that we had in the band, they were hung up on hooks, and opened like sheep. It was a pitiful sight\". Doubt has since been cast on this account, since the youngest drummer to be killed was 18, and the youngest boy present was 16. Despite this, Charles Edwin Fripp's famous painting, \"The Last Stand at Isandlwana\", shows a small blond-haired boy amongst the adult soldiers.\nThe US Army kept drummers and fifers with the infantry, until they were finally abolished in the field in 1917. Drums, like other instruments, were now only used for parades and ceremonies.\n\n"}
{"id": "38047767", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38047767", "title": "Edward Costello", "text": "Edward Costello\n\nEdward Joseph Costello was the only person from the geographical area now known as Northern Ireland to be killed in the 1916 Easter Rising in Ireland.\n\nCostello was born in Lurgan, County Armagh to Edward (snr) and Rose Costello. His parents came to Lurgan from Kilcock, County Kildare to work in a family business which was in the town centre.\n\nEdward Joseph worked as a clerk in Johnston and Allen’s Linen Manufacturers in Victoria Street, Lurgan. He married Annie and lived in number 3 Castle Lane Lurgan. In 1914 he left Lurgan to seek employment in Dublin. His death certificate lists his final occupation as a pawn broker's assistant.\n\nHe joined the Irish Citizen Army in 1915. His wife Annie remained in Lurgan. He made frequent visits back to the town to see his wife and children.\n\nHe took part in the Easter Rising in April 1916, and received a fatal bullet wound to the head on 25 April, dying later in Jervis Street Hospital. He was aged 27 years. His brother James registered the death. He was buried in Glasnevin Cemetery on 1 May 1916. His grave is in the St, Paul’s section, DC 30. At present there is no headstone on his grave.\n\nHis widow remained in Lurgan and raised his children in the town. They moved from Castle Lane in the 1950s, moving to number 1 Antrim Road Lurgan. His widow Annie Costello died in Lurgan on 22 March 1959.\n\n"}
{"id": "54345655", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54345655", "title": "Elisha Paul Janes", "text": "Elisha Paul Janes\n\nElisha Paul \"E.P.\" Janes July 26, 1877 - August 30, 1940born in Shelter Island, Suffolk, New York died in San Diego, California. He was a home builder most well known for building approximately 160 homes in Altadena, California from 1924 to 1926. \n\nJanes' father was Captain Leroy Lansing Janes (1837-1909). His mother was Harriet Waterbury Scudder Janes (1847-1885).\n\nE.P. Janes, as he was known professionally, built many English and Spanish style \"homes of distinction in scenic Altadena\" between 1924 and 1926. Born in New York, Janes and his wife Harriet moved to Altadena in 1924. His homes have been called \"Janes Cottages.\" The area where his homes were built is now called Historic Janes Village because of his distinctive homes. \n\nJanes married Edith P Lloyd (1882-1940) in New York. They had no children. He died in San Diego, California at the age of 63. His wife Edith died soon after him.\n"}
{"id": "45514975", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45514975", "title": "Ferdinand E. Kuhn", "text": "Ferdinand E. Kuhn\n\nFerdinand Emery Kuhn (September 3, 1861 – March 17, 1930) was a shoe merchant known as the \"Father of the Knights of Columbus in the South.\" He was also president of the 1908 Southern Association champion Nashville Vols baseball team.\n\nKuhn was born in Nashville, Tennessee, on September 3, 1861, to German immigrants from the Kingdom of Württemberg, Ferdinand and Barbara (Müller) Kuhn. He was the youngest of eight children. His father was a brewer who ran the Rock City Brewery shortly after the end of the Civil War.\n\nKuhn attended the local parochial and public high schools, graduating from Hume High School, then went to the University of Notre Dame, where he was a member of the University Baseball Association and the \"Lemonnier Boat Club\", a boat and rowing club on Saint Joseph's Lake. He graduated in 1883 with a BSc, a classmate of aeronautical expert Albert Francis Zahm. Kuhn received his Masters in 1885, and while pursuing that degree would present the gold medal given to the best science undergraduate at Notre Dame.\n\nHe was married to Katherine \"Kate\" Wall on April 15, 1885, in her hometown of Springfield, Kentucky. She had attended Saint Mary's Academy, and was born in Wall, Pennsylvania, named for her father Frank Wall, a wealthy farmer and steamboat engineer from Ireland.\n\nThey had nine children; six boys and three girls. Kuhn was the father of prominent Vanderbilt quarterback Doc Kuhn and, through another son, the grandfather of NBC radio and television announcer Dick Dudley.\n\nKuhn's house from 1898 until his death is now called Frassati House, and is the building on Vanderbilt's campus that houses the University's Catholic campus ministry. Kuhn was an active member of the Cathedral of the Incarnation.\n\nKuhn's first job out of college was as the private secretary to Mayor Claiborne Hooper Phillips. His brother Casper was city auditor. Ferdinand Kuhn was then a secretary and city recorder for the Board of Public Works and Affairs from 1884 until 1903. Upon his resignation he was dubbed \"beyond question the most capable man that (sic) ever served the Board\".\n\nKuhn was initiated into the Knights of Columbus, a Catholic fraternal service organization, in Louisville, Kentucky, on July 1, 1899. He was one of the first five from south of Louisville to be initiated on that day. The other four were: Messrs. H. J. Grimes, Will J. Varley, William Smith, and Michael M. McCormack.\n\nFerdinand Kuhn was one of the Nashville Catholics who had advocated expansion into Tennessee. The 1900 compromise allowed for the formation of Nashville Council No. 544. Kuhn, who became Tennessee's first State Deputy, succeeded Daniel J. Callahan as the master ceremonialist, presiding at the institution ceremonies of councils in Florida (1900), Alabama (1902), Louisiana (1902), and Georgia (1902). His degree work at the opening of New Orleans Council No. 714 in November 1902 was long remembered as 'something out of this world'.\n\nHe was appointed Supreme Knight Hearn as the first Territorial Deputy of Tennessee, and in that capacity organized councils in Memphis, Knoxville, and Chattanooga in Tennessee; Atlanta and Augusta in Georgia; Birmingham, Mobile, and Huntsville in Alabama; Meridian, Mississippi; New Orleans, Louisiana; Little Rock and Fort Smith in Arkansas. He was once Master of the Fourth Degree for Georgia, Alabama, Mississippi, Louisiana, and Arkansas, Later he remained Master of the Fourth Degree for Tennessee.\n\nKuhn was the first state deputy of Tennessee from 1902 to 1908. In 1920 he was Grand Knight of Nashville Council 544.\n\nKuhn was president and treasurer of the Kuhn, Cooper, Geary & Company shoe store, founded in 1903 with Ed P. Cooper and P. J. Geary. The store was located on North Summer Street (Fifth Avenue North), Nashville.\n\nIt was once the largest retail shoe store in the South, and earned a reputation as the premiere footwear store in downtown Nashville. The most up-to-date electric lighting and holophone reflectors provided lighting for the store. Its front window displayed shoes on revolving pedestals. The inside walls were marble lined, and inlaid mirrors ran along the back wall. Hub Perdue, a former Major league pitcher for the St. Louis Cardinals and Boston Braves before he managed the Nashville Volunteers, worked briefly at the store in 1921.\n\nKuhn was the president of the Retail Shoe Dealers' Association in 1906, and of the Retail Credit Men's Association in 1920.\n\nKuhn was the president of the Nashville Vols baseball club from 1908 to 1910, including the 1908 Southern Association championship team. He was preceded in that capacity by Bradley Walker. Kuhn was head of a group of men who purchased the team after a last place finish in 1907. Along with Kuhn the group consisted of: James B. Carr (president of B. H. Stief Jewelry Co.); Thomas James Tyne (lawyer and state legislator); J. T. Connor (real estate); James A. Bowling (contractor); Robert L. Bolling (lawyer); Rufus E. Fort (physician); and William G. Hirsig (automobile and tire dealer). Well known attorney S. A. Champion supplied legal services. The group envisioned an ambitious project of stadium renovations at Sulphur Dell, and managed to cull $50,000. Kuhn was selected to head the Board of Directors. He went on a trip to Ponce de Leon Park in Atlanta to observe a modern park and plan renovations.\n\nKuhn hired Bill Bernhard as manager. In 1908 the team won the Southern pennant by beating the New Orleans Pelicans in the last game, described by Grantland Rice as the \"greatest game ever played in Dixie\".\n\nNashville entered the final day of that season on September 19 with an opportunity to win the league pennant. The championship would be decided by the last game of the season at Sulphur Dell. Both teams had the same number of losses (56), but the Pelicans were in first place with 76 wins to the Vols' second-place 74. A crowd of 11,000 spectators, including Kuhn, who sat next to Mayor James Stephens Brown, saw Carl Sitton hurl a three-hit, 1–0 shutout, giving Nashville their third Southern Association pennant by 0.1 percentage points (57.25% to 57.14%). Ted Breitenstein was New Orleans's pitcher.\n\nOne account reads: \"By one run, by one point, Nashville has won the Southern League pennant, nosing New Orleans out literally by an eyelash. Saturday's game, which was the deciding one, between Nashville and New Orleans was the greatest exhibition of the national game ever seen in the south and the finish in the league race probably sets a record in baseball history.\"\n\nThe championship banner was presented to Kuhn by league president William Marmaduke Kavanaugh, and it hung over the window of Kuhn's shoe store until the banner raising ceremony on Opening Day, 1909.\n\nKuhn also invented a kind of electric scoreboard. In the 1909 season, New Orleans, Mobile, Montgomery, Memphis, and Atlanta used his design. John Heisman was president of the Atlanta team.\n\nFollowing the 1910 season, Kuhn resigned as the team's president. He was succeeded by Hirsig. Kuhn was always careful with the team's money, and one newspaper called it the end of the \"tightwad\" regime.\n\nHe was once president of Tennessee's state Anti-Tuberculosis League.\n"}
{"id": "23133453", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23133453", "title": "Francisco Javier Gaxiola", "text": "Francisco Javier Gaxiola\n\nFrancisco Javier Gaxiola Castillo-Negrete (January 31, 1870 in Sinaloa de Leyva – November 18, 1933 in Mexico City) was a Mexican lawyer, politician and diplomat.\n\nGaxiola taught in superior-level institutions of law in the Estado de México. As diplomat he was adviser of the Legation of Mexico in Madrid. From September 11, 1919, to March 8, 1920, he was acting Governor of the State of Mexico, while Agustín Millán Vivero, the original governor, accompanied President Venustiano Carranza, when the rebellion in Agua Prieta exploded.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1544383", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1544383", "title": "Franz Sigel", "text": "Franz Sigel\n\nFranz Sigel (November 18, 1824 – August 21, 1902) was a German American military officer, revolutionist and immigrant to the United States who was a teacher, newspaperman, politician, and served as a Union major general in the American Civil War. His ability to recruit German-speaking immigrants to the Union armies received the approval of President Abraham Lincoln, but he was strongly disliked by General-in-Chief Henry Halleck.\n\nSigel was born in Sinsheim, Baden (Germany), and attended the gymnasium in Bruchsal. He graduated from Karlsruhe Military Academy in 1843, and was commissioned as a lieutenant in the Baden Army. He met the revolutionaries Friedrich Hecker and Gustav von Struve and became associated with the revolutionary movement. He was wounded in a duel in 1847. The same year, he retired from the army to begin law school studies in Heidelberg. After organizing a revolutionary free corps in Mannheim and later in the Seekreis county, he soon became a leader of the Baden revolutionary forces (with the rank of colonel) in the 1848 Revolution, being one of the few revolutionaries with military command experience. In April 1848, he led the \"Sigel-Zug\", recruiting a militia of more than 4,000 volunteers to lead a siege against the city of Freiburg. His militia was defeated on April 23, 1848 by the numerically inferior but better led troops of the Grand Duchy of Baden. In 1849, he became Secretary of War and commander-in-chief of the revolutionary republican government of Baden. Wounded in a skirmish, Sigel had to resign his command but continued to support the revolutionary war effort as adjutant general to his successor Ludwik Mieroslawski. In July, after the defeat of the revolutionaries by Prussian troops and Mieroslawski's departure, Sigel led the retreat of the remaining troops in their flight to Switzerland. Sigel later went on to England. Sigel emigrated to the United States in 1852, as did many other German \"Forty-Eighters\".\n\nSigel taught in the New York City public schools and served in the state militia. He married a daughter of Rudolf Dulon and taught in Dulon's school. In 1857, he became a professor at the German-American Institute in St. Louis, Missouri. He was elected director of the St. Louis public schools in 1860. He was influential in the Missouri immigrant community. He attracted Germans to the Union and antislavery causes when he openly supported them in 1861.\n\nShortly after the start of the war, Sigel was commissioned colonel of the 3rd Missouri Infantry, a commission dating from May 4, 1861. He recruited and organized an expedition to southwest Missouri, and subsequently fought the Battle of Carthage, where a force of pro-Confederate Missouri militia handed him a setback in a strategically insignificant fight. However, Sigel's defeat did help spark recruitment for the Missouri State Guard and local Confederate forces. Sigel later took part in a skirmish at Dug Springs.\n\nThroughout the summer, President Lincoln actively sought the support of antislavery, pro-Unionist immigrants. Sigel, always popular with the German immigrants, was a good candidate to advance this plan. He was promoted to brigadier general on August 7, 1861, to rank from May 17, one of a number of early political generals endorsed by Lincoln.\n\nSigel served under Brig. Gen Nathaniel Lyon in the capture of the Confederate Camp Jackson in St. Louis and at the Battle of Wilson's Creek, where his command was routed after making a march around the Confederate camp and attacking from the rear. Sigel conducted the retreat of the army after the death of General Lyon.\nHis finest performance came on March 8, 1862, at the Battle of Pea Ridge, where he commanded two divisions and personally directed the Union artillery in the defeat of Maj. Gen. Earl Van Dorn on the second day of the battle.\n\nSigel was promoted to major general on March 21, 1862. He served as a division commander in the Shenandoah Valley and fought unsuccessfully against Maj. Gen. Thomas J. \"Stonewall\" Jackson, who managed to outwit and defeat the larger Union force in a number of small engagements. He commanded the I Corps in Maj. Gen. John Pope's Army of Virginia at the Second Battle of Bull Run, another Union defeat, where he was wounded in the hand.\n\nOver the winter of 1862–63, Sigel commanded the XI Corps, consisting primarily of German immigrant soldiers, in the Army of the Potomac. During this period, the corps saw no action; it stayed in reserve during the Battle of Fredericksburg. Sigel had developed a reputation as an inept general, but his ability to recruit and motivate German immigrants kept him employed in a politically sensitive position. Many of these soldiers could speak little English beyond \"I'm going to fight mit Sigel\", which was their proud slogan and which became one of the favorite songs of the war.\nThey were quite disgruntled when Sigel left the corps in February 1863, and was replaced by Major-General Oliver O. Howard, who had no immigrant affinities. Fortunately for Sigel, the two black marks in the XI Corps' reputation—Chancellorsville and Gettysburg—would occur after he was relieved.\n\nThe reason for Sigel's relief is unclear. Some accounts cite failing health; others that he expressed his displeasure at the small size of his corps and asked to be relieved. General-in-chief Henry W. Halleck detested Sigel, and managed to keep him relegated to light duty in eastern Pennsylvania until March 1864. President Lincoln, for political reasons, directed Secretary of War Edwin M. Stanton to place Sigel in command of the new Department of West Virginia.\n\nIn his new command, Sigel opened the Valley Campaigns of 1864, launching an invasion of the Shenandoah Valley. He was soundly defeated by Maj. Gen. John C. Breckinridge at the Battle of New Market, on May 15, 1864, which was particularly embarrassing due to the prominent role young cadets from the Virginia Military Institute played in his defeat. After the battle, Sigel was replaced by Maj. Gen. David Hunter. In July, Sigel fought Lt. Gen. Jubal A. Early at Harpers Ferry, but soon afterward was replaced by Albion P. Howe.\n\nSigel spent the rest of the war without an active command.\n\nSigel resigned his commission on May 4, 1865. He worked as editor of the \"Baltimore Wecker\" for a short time, and then as a newspaper editor in New York City. He filled a variety of political positions there, both as a Democrat and a Republican. In 1869, he ran on the Republican ticket for Secretary of State of New York, losing to the incumbent Democrat Homer Augustus Nelson. In May 1871 he became collector of internal revenue, and then in October 1871 register of the city. In 1887, President Grover Cleveland appointed him pension agent for the city of New York. He also lectured, worked in advertising and published the \"New York Monthly\", a German-American periodical, for some years.\n\nFranz Sigel died in New York in 1902 and is buried in Woodlawn Cemetery in The Bronx, New York City. Elsie Sigel, the victim of a famous murder, was his granddaughter.\n\nStatues of him stand in Riverside Park, corner 106th Street in Manhattan and in Forest Park in St. Louis, Missouri. There is also a park named for him in the Bronx, just south of the Courthouse near Yankee Stadium. Siegel Street in Williamsburg, Brooklyn was named after him, Sigel Street in Worcester, Massachusetts was also named after him, as well as the village of Sigel, Pennsylvania, founded in 1865, in addition to Sigel, Illinois, which was settled in 1863. Sigel Township, Minnesota, settled in 1856 and organized in April 1862, was also named for Sigel. In about 1873 Sigel himself visited Sigel Township and New Ulm, Minnesota.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "19939459", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19939459", "title": "Gamliel Rabinowitz", "text": "Gamliel Rabinowitz\n\nGamliel HaKohen Rabinowitz (Rappaport) is a rosh yeshiva of Shaar Hashamayim Yeshiva in Jerusalem, Israel. He is a recognized expert in Jewish Law and Kabbalah.\n\nRabinowitz is the son of Rabbi Levi HaKohen Rabinowitz (1920-2015), author of \"Maadanei Hashulchan\" and \"Maadanei Malakhim\", and grandson of Rabbi Gamliel Rabinowitz, a rosh yeshiva in Kishinev and posek in the court of the Chortkover Rebbe, Rabbi Dovid Moshe Friedman. His family possesses rare documentation attesting to their status as Kohanim, tracing their ancestry back to the Shach. The family surname was originally Rappaport; the name was changed in response to a Russian government decree that conscripted all second sons for the Imperial Russian Army.\n\nHe resides in the Zikhron Moshe neighborhood of Jerusalem.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4546758", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4546758", "title": "George Modelski", "text": "George Modelski\n\nGeorge Modelski (born January 9, 1926 Poznań, as Jerzy Modelski; - February 21, 2014) was Professor of Political science Emeritus in the University of Washington. Modelski has done work on long-term processes in global politics and economics, as well as the world urban macrodynamics and world system evolution. In 2012 he was awarded with the Bronze Kondratieff Medal by the International N. D. Kondratieff Foundation.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "41518601", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41518601", "title": "Georgiann Davis", "text": "Georgiann Davis\n\nGeorgiann Davis is an assistant professor of sociology at University of Nevada, Las Vegas and author of the book \"Contesting Intersex: The Dubious Diagnosis\". Davis formerly held a similar position at Southern Illinois University Edwardsville. Born with Androgen Insensitivity Syndrome, she writes widely on intersex issues and the sociology of diagnosis.\n\nIn a video for The Interface Project, Davis states how she was born with complete androgen insensitivity syndrome and diagnosed as an adolescent after experiencing abdominal pain. Her testes were removed, but she wasn't told her diagnosis: she was told she had cancer. In an article for \"Ms. Magazine\", she says:\n\n\"Contesting Intersex: The Dubious Diagnosis\" by Georgiann Davis examines the history of the U.S. intersex movement, with a focus on the medicalization of intersex bodies and a contested shift in clinical language from intersex to \"disorders of sex development\". Published by NYU Press, the book has been positively reviewed. Elizabeth Reis comments that Davis's work contains \"piercing interviews and astute analysis\", while Choice describes he book as a \"compelling account of how activists, parents, assorted medical specialists and institutions, and people with intersex traits respond to the diversity of human reproductive development\".\n\nGeorgiann Davis has written both scholarly articles, and opinion articles for broader audiences. Her scholarly work includes articles on the issues of Preimplantation Genetic Diagnosis (PGD), Olympic sex-testing, and both medical terminology and the medical profession.\n\nIn the 2011 article, \"'DSD is a Perfectly Fine Term': Reasserting Medical Authority through a Shift in Intersex Terminology\", Davis examines the state of medical treatment for intersex traits, following a 2006 \"Consensus Statement on the Management of Intersex Disorders.\" She describes how:\nDavis's analysis was referenced by a committee of the Senate of Australia in 2013.\n\nIn \"Out of Bounds? A Critique of the New Policies on Hyperandrogenism in Elite Female Athletes\", a collaborative article with Katrina Karkazis, Rebecca Jordan-Young, and Silvia Camporesi, published in 2012 in the \"American Journal of Bioethics\", they argue that a new sex testing policy by the International Association of Athletics Federations will not protect against breaches of privacy, will require athletes to undergo unnecessary treatment in order to compete, and will intensify \"gender policing\". They recommend that athletes be able to compete in accordance with their legal gender.\n\nIn 2013, her article \"The Social Costs of Preempting Intersex Traits\" was published in the \"American Journal of Bioethics\". She questions the use of Preimplantation Genetic Diagnosis to select against intersex traits, arguing that intersex traits reflect necessary natural diversity; deselection of intersex embyros essentially protects \"binary ideologies about sex and its presumed correlation with gender\". She describes this as a form of sex eugenics that would \"obliterate\" an intersex community of individuals leading full and happy lives, a community that forces \"society to disentangle sex and gender, and in the process, open up new possibilities for embracing all sorts of human diversity.\" Further, if de-selection of intersex traits is “morally permissible” due to stigma and poor social outcomes, then \"we need to recognize that a major source of the shame and stigma individuals with intersex traits face originates in the medical profession\"\n\n\n\nDavis is an assistant professor of sociology at University of Nevada, Las Vegas, where her academic interests include intersex traits, sex and gender, body and embodiment, and the medical profession.\n\nDavis is a former president of the AIS-DSD Support Group and is presently on the board of interACT.\n\nDavis received the 2014 Vaughnie Lindsay New Investigator Award from Southern Illinois University Edwardsville, following her identification \"as the most promising new researcher on her campus\". She has also received the 2013 Midwest Sociological Society Research Grant. In 2012, she received the Outstanding Thesis Award, University of Illinois at Chicago (UIC). In earlier years she received the 2010 Rue Bucher Memorial Award and the 2010 Brauner Fellowship at UIC. In 2009 she received the Beth B. Hess Scholarship Award from Sociologists for Women in Society.\n"}
{"id": "22324958", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22324958", "title": "Harry Readshaw", "text": "Harry Readshaw\n\nHarry A. Readshaw III (born August 7, 1941) is a Democratic member of the Pennsylvania House of Representatives for the 36th District and was elected in 1994. He and his wife live in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania, and have three children. He graduated from Carrick High School in 1959 and attended Duquesne University from 1959 to 1962. He graduated from the Pittsburgh Institute of Mortuary Science in 1962. Prior to elective office, he served in the United States Marine Corps Reserve and in the Carrick Community Council. He has been a funeral director since 1970.\n\n"}
{"id": "43803682", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43803682", "title": "Hatteras Indians", "text": "Hatteras Indians\n\nThe Hatteras Indians were a tribe of Native Americans in the United States who were the earliest inhabitants of the North Carolina Outer Banks. They inhabited a village on what is now called Hatteras Island called Croatoan.\n\nThey first had contact with English settlers in 1587 and were gone by the mid 18th century. In the 1711 Tuscarora War, the Hatteras Indians sided with the colonists and fought against the Tuscarora tribe and their allies for the colonists. This cost them heavily and many were driven from their lands by enemy tribes.\n\nThe modern-day Roanoke-Hatteras tribe is partially descended from them.\n"}
{"id": "11308894", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11308894", "title": "Henry G. Freeman Jr. Pin Money Fund", "text": "Henry G. Freeman Jr. Pin Money Fund\n\nThe Henry G. Freeman Jr. Pin Money Fund was the operating name of an annuity fund of the Henry G. Freeman Jr. Trust, benefiting the First Ladies of the United States. The fund was established as part of the will (written in 1912) of Henry G. Freeman Jr., a prominent Philadelphia real estate developer.\n\nFreeman believed that the president of the United States was paid a \"miserable pittance\", and that a way of increasing his income while avoiding the appearance of political gifts was to institute an annuity to be paid \"to the lady termed the first lady in the land; that is, the President of the United States [sic] wife, or anyone representing the president as such, should he not be married or should she die during his administration.\" Freeman's will specified that the money be for the first lady's \"own and absolute use\" and the payments \"shall continue in force as long as this glorious government exists.\"\n\nFreeman died in 1917, but the fund did not take effect immediately. The fund came to public knowledge in 1931, when Freeman's son died. A contemporary newspaper report stated that \"legal experts\" were divided as to whether the First Ladies' annuity would begin at that time, whether it would have to wait for Freeman's other annuity beneficiaries to die out, or whether it would be altogether invalid under the rule against perpetuities. In the event, no First Ladies actually received any funds until Freeman's descendants died out.\n\nThe fund became active in November 1989 during the administration of George H.W. Bush, but due to a court dispute the first payments were not made until December 1992. Barbara Bush received $36,000 retroactively and donated a portion to her charity work, and spent an unspecified amount doing \"something nice for my grandchildren.\" First Lady Hillary Clinton and First Lady Laura Bush donated the payments to charity. The income was taxable, and the fund was overseen by Wells Fargo Bank. \n\nWhen Michelle Obama was First Lady, she received payments under the fund in 2009 and 2010. However, the trustees at Wells Fargo Bank were apparently concerned that the fund violated the Rule Against Perpetuities in effect when Freeman died, which restricted most trusts from lasting more than 21 years beyond the life of a then-living person; the year 2010 marked 21 years since the death of Freeman's last descendant. As a result, Michelle Obama relinquished her interest and directed the trustees to disburse the remainder of the fund to charities designated in Freeman's will. Beginning with the Obamas' 2011 tax return, the publicly released tax returns of the President and First Lady no longer listed the Freeman fund as a source of income.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2179061", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2179061", "title": "Joanna Taylor", "text": "Joanna Taylor\n\nJoanna Taylor (born 24 July 1978) is an English actress and former model.\n\nBorn in Tooting, South London, Taylor was a student at the Guildford School of Acting. Her big break came in 1999, when she won the role of Geri Hudson in Channel 4 teen soap \"Hollyoaks\". She left in 2001, and has since starred in BBC One police drama, \"Merseybeat\" as PC Jackie Brown. In 2004, Taylor appeared in the American film \"Post Impact\" with Dean Cain. In 2005, Taylor turned to writing, contributing a weekly column to The Times from the perspective of a \"footballer's wife\" and in 2007, after taking an extended break from acting, she featured in the British independent film \"Back in Business\", opposite Martin Kemp.\n\nTaylor married English footballer Danny Murphy on 7 July 2004, whom she met through mutual actor friend Louis Emerick in Barbados. They have a daughter and Taylor is step-mother to Murphy's son from a previous relationship. Taylor took part in the 2007 Great South Run for children's cancer charity CLIC Sargent.\n\n"}
{"id": "15839", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15839", "title": "Joey Ramone", "text": "Joey Ramone\n\nJeffrey Ross Hyman (May 19, 1951 – April 15, 2001), known professionally as Joey Ramone, was an American musician and singer-songwriter, lead vocalist of the punk rock band the Ramones. Joey Ramone's image, voice, and tenure as frontman of the Ramones made him a countercultural icon.\n\nJeffrey Ross Hyman was born on May 19, 1951, in Queens, New York to a Jewish family. His parents were Charlotte (\"née\" Mandell) and Noel Hyman. \nThe family lived in Forest Hills, Queens, New York \nwhere Hyman and his future Ramones bandmates attended Forest Hills High School. Though happy, Hyman was something of an outcast, diagnosed at 18 with obsessive–compulsive disorder. He grew up with his brother Mickey Leigh. His mother, Charlotte Lesher, divorced her first husband, Noel Hyman. She married a second time but was widowed by a car accident while she was on vacation. At birth, Joey was born with a parasitic twin, which was a malformed Siamese twin growing out of his back. The twin was incomplete and thus it was surgically removed.\n\nHyman was a fan of the Beatles, the Who, David Bowie, and the Stooges among other bands, particularly oldies and the Phil Spector-produced \"girl groups\". His idol was Pete Townshend of the Who, with whom he shared a birthday. Hyman took up the drums at 13, and played them throughout his teen years before picking up an acoustic guitar at age 17.\n\nIn 1972 Hyman joined the glam punk band Sniper. Sniper played at the Mercer Arts Center, Max's Kansas City and the Coventry, alongside the New York Dolls, Suicide, and Queen Elizabeth III. Hyman played with Sniper under the name Jeff Starship. Mickey Leigh: \"I was shocked when the band came out. Joey was the lead singer and I couldn't believe how good he was. Because he'd been sitting in my house with my acoustic guitar, writing these songs like 'I Don't Care', fucking up my guitar, and suddenly he's this guy on stage who you can't take your eyes off of.\" Hyman continued playing with Sniper until early 1974, when he was replaced by Alan Turner.\n\nIn 1974, Jeffrey Hyman co-founded the punk rock band the Ramones with friends John Cummings and Douglas Colvin. Colvin was already using the pseudonym \"Dee Dee Ramone\" and the others also adopted stage names using \"Ramone\" as their surname: Cummings became Johnny Ramone and Hyman became Joey Ramone. The name \"Ramone\" stems from Paul McCartney: he briefly used the stage name \"Paul Ramon\" during 1960/1961, when the Beatles, still an unknown five-piece band called the Silver Beetles, did a tour of Scotland and all took up pseudonyms; and again on a 1969 Steve Miller album where he played the drums on one song using that name.\n\nJoey initially served as the group's drummer while Dee Dee Ramone was the original vocalist. However, when Dee Dee's vocal cords proved unable to sustain the demands of consistent live performances, Ramones manager Thomas Erdelyi suggested Joey switch to vocals. After a series of unsuccessful auditions in search of a new drummer, Erdelyi took over on drums, assuming the name Tommy Ramone.\n\nThe Ramones were a major influence on the punk rock movement in the United States, though they achieved only minor commercial success. Their only record with enough U.S. sales to be certified gold was the compilation album \"Ramones Mania\". Recognition of the band's importance built over the years, and they are now regularly represented in many assessments of all-time great rock music, such as the \"Rolling Stone\" lists of the 50 Greatest Artists of All Time and 25 Greatest Live Albums of All Time, VH1's 100 Greatest Artists of Hard Rock, and Mojo's 100 Greatest Albums. In 2002, the Ramones were voted the second greatest rock and roll band ever in \"Spin\", trailing only the Beatles.\n\nIn 1996, after a tour with the Lollapalooza music festival, the band played their final show and then disbanded.\n\nRamone's voice was within a tenor range. His signature cracks, hiccups, snarls, crooning and youthful voice made his one of punk rock's most recognizable voices. Allmusic.com claims that \"Joey Ramone's signature bleat was the voice of punk rock in America.\" As his vocals matured and deepened through his career, so did the Ramones' songwriting, leaving a notable difference from his initial melodic and callow style—two notable tracks serving as examples are \"Somebody Put Something in My Drink\" and \"Mama's Boy\". Dee Dee Ramone was quoted as saying \"All the other singers [in New York] were copying David Johansen (of the New York Dolls), who was copying Mick Jagger... But Joey was unique, totally unique.\"\n\nIn 1985, Ramone joined Steven Van Zandt's music industry activist group Artists United Against Apartheid, which campaigned against the Sun City resort in South Africa. Ramone and 49 other recording artists – including Bob Dylan, Bruce Springsteen, Keith Richards, Lou Reed and Run DMC — collaborated on the song \"Sun City\", in which they pledged they would never perform at the resort.\n\nIn 1994, Ramone appeared on the Helen Love album \"Love and Glitter, Hot Days and Music\", singing the track \"Punk Boy\". Helen Love returned the favor, singing on Ramone's song \"Mr. Punchy\".\n\nIn October 1996, Ramone headlined the \"Rock the Reservation\" alternative rock festival in Tuba City, Arizona. 'Joey Ramone & the Resistance' (Daniel Rey on guitar, John Connor on bass guitar and Roger Murdock on drums) debuted Ramone's interpretation of Louis Armstrong's \"Wonderful World' live, as well as Ramone's choice of Ramones classics and some of his other favorite songs; The Dave Clark Five's \"Any Way You Want It\", The Who's \"The Kids are Alright\" and The Stooges' \"No Fun.\"\n\nRamone co-wrote and recorded the song \"Meatball Sandwich\" with Youth Gone Mad. For a short time before his death, he took the role of manager and producer for the punk rock band the Independents.\n\nHis last recording as a vocalist was backup vocals on the CD \"One Nation Under\" by the Dine Navajo rock group Blackfire. He appeared on two tracks, \"What Do You See\" and \"Lying to Myself\". The 2002 CD won \"Best Pop/Rock Album of the Year\" at the 2002 Native American Music Awards.\n\nRamone produced the Ronnie Spector album \"She Talks to Rainbows\" in 1999. It was critically acclaimed but was not very commercially successful. The title track was previously on the Ramones' final studio album, \"¡Adios Amigos!\".\n\nJoey Ramone died after a seven-year battle with lymphoma at New York-Presbyterian Hospital on April 15, 2001, a month before he would have turned 50. He was reportedly listening to the song \"In a Little While\" by U2 when he died. In an interview in 2014 for Radio 538, Bono confirmed that Joey Ramone's family told him that Ramone listened to the song before he died, which Andy Shernoff (The Dictators) also confirmed.\n\nHis solo album \"Don't Worry About Me\" was released posthumously in 2002, and features the single \"What a Wonderful World\", a cover of the Louis Armstrong standard. MTV News claimed: \"With his trademark rose-colored shades, black leather jacket, shoulder-length hair, ripped jeans and alternately snarling and crooning vocals, Joey was the iconic godfather of punk.\"\n\nOn November 30, 2003, a block of East 2nd Street in New York City was officially renamed Joey Ramone Place. It is the block where Hyman once lived with bandmate Dee Dee Ramone and is near the former site of the music club CBGB, where the Ramones got their start. Hyman's birthday is celebrated annually by rock 'n' roll nightclubs, hosted in New York City by his brother and, until 2007, his mother, Charlotte. Joey Ramone is interred at Hillside Cemetery in Lyndhurst, New Jersey.\n\nIn 2001, the Ramones were named as inductees to the Rock and Roll Hall of Fame, prior to the ceremony held early the following year.\n\nSeveral songs have been written in tribute to Joey Ramone. Tommy, CJ and Marky Ramone and Daniel Rey came together in 2002 to record Jed Davis' Joey Ramone tribute album, \"The Bowery Electric\". Other tributes include \"Hello Joe\" by Blondie from the album \"The Curse of Blondie\", \"Don't Take Me For Granted\" by Social Distortion, \"Here's To You\" by Minus3, \"You Can't Kill Joey Ramone\" by Sloppy Seconds, \"Joey\" by Raimundos, \"I Wanna Be Your Joey Ramone\" by Sleater-Kinney, \"Red and White Stripes\" by Moler and \"Joey\" by the Corin Tucker Band, \"I Heard Ramona Sing\" by Frank Black, and Amy Rigby's \"Dancin' With Joey Ramone\". Rammstein ended several shows of their Mutter tour in 2001 with a cover of \"Pet Sematary\" in honor of the passing of Joey Ramone.\n\nIn September 2010, the Associated Press reported that \"Joey Ramone Place,\" a sign at the corner of Bowery and East Second Street, was New York City's most stolen sign. Later, the sign was moved to 20 feet above ground level. Drummer Marky Ramone thought Joey would appreciate the fact that his sign would be the most stolen, adding \"Now you have to be an NBA player to see it.\"\n\nAfter several years in development, Ramone's second posthumous album was released on May 22, 2012. Titled \"...Ya Know?\", it was preceded on Record Store Day by a 7\" single re-release of \"Blitzkrieg Bop\"/\"Havana Affair\".\n\nJoel David Moore portrayed Ramone in the 2013 film \"CBGB\", about the club of the same name.\n\nThe opening track of U2's 2014 album \"Songs of Innocence\" is called \"The Miracle (of Joey Ramone)\", paying tribute to the Ramones' influence on U2 from a show which the band members had attended in the late 1970s. Lead singer Bono claimed that Joey Ramone showed him how to sing.\n\nIn the HBO television series \"Vinyl\", James Vincent Boland appears as Joey Ramone - then using the pseudonym \"Jeff Starship\" - during his stint as lead singer of the pre-Ramones band Sniper.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "36126328", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36126328", "title": "Jože Humer", "text": "Jože Humer\n\nJože Humer (24 June 1936 – 13 June 2012) was a Slovenian composer, choirmaster, lyricist, translator, and cultural organiser. He was born in Maribor, attended a local classical gymnasium, and then studied and graduated from law. He established the Ljubljana Madrigalists Chamber Choir and led the Tone Tomšič Academic Choir and the Gallus Octet in Ljubljana. He was president of the Ljubljana Musical Youth, the renovator of the Ljubljana Musical Society, and president of the Association of Cultural Organisations of Slovenia. He wrote and translated hundreds of librettos and other lyrics for children, choirs, and soloists. In 1999, he received the Golden Medal of the Slovenian Public Fund of Cultural Activities for his work. He was also a judge, a secretary of the Supreme Court of Slovenia, and involved in the legal and organisational arrangements in the field of culture in the 1980s and during Slovenian secession from Yugoslavia. Later, he collaborated as an expert with the Slovenian Constitutional Court. In March 2012, he was decorated by Slovenian President Danilo Türk with the Order for Merits of Slovenia, with a rationale that described him as an \"above-average deserving personality of the Slovenian cultural life.\"\n"}
{"id": "39580332", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39580332", "title": "Kathleen Goligher", "text": "Kathleen Goligher\n\nKathleen Goligher (born 1898) was an Irish spiritualist medium. Goligher was endorsed by engineer William Jackson Crawford who wrote three books about her mediumship but was exposed as a fraud by physicist Edmund Edward Fournier d'Albe in 1921.\n\nGoligher was born in Belfast. She held séances in her own home with seven of her family members. The psychical researcher and engineer William Jackson Crawford (1881–1920) investigated the mediumship of Goligher and claimed she had levitated the table and produced ectoplasm.\n\nCrawford in his books developed the \"Cantilever Theory of Levitation\" due to his experiments with Goligher. According to his theory the table was levitated by \"psychic rods\" of ectoplasm which came out of the body of the medium to operate as an invisible cantilever. Crawford took flashlight photographs of the ectoplasm, and described the substance as \"plasma\". Crawford investigated Goligher's mediumship at her house for six years. He committed suicide on 30 July 1920 for unknown reasons. Crawford's photographs of Goligher showed that the ectoplasm, frequently issued from her vagina.\n\nThere were no scientific controls in the Crawford's séances with Goligher as she and her family members had their hands and legs free at all times. After Crawford's death the physicist Edmund Edward Fournier d'Albe investigated the medium Goligher at twenty sittings and arrived at the opposite conclusion to Crawford. According to d'Albe no ectoplasm or levitation had occurred with Goligher and stated he had found evidence of fraud. On 22 July 1921 he observed Goligher holding the table with her foot. He also discovered that the \"ectoplasm\" substance in the photographs of Crawford was muslin. During a séance d'Albe had observed white muslin between Goligher's feet.\n\nIn a letter to Harry Houdini, d'Albe wrote \"I must say I was greatly surprised at Crawford's blindness.\" The conclusion from d'Albe was that the Goligher family were involved in the mediumship trickery and had duped Crawford. D'Albe published \"The Goligher Circle\" in 1922 which exposed the fraudulent mediumship of Goligher and because of the exposure she retired from mediumship in the same year.\n\nCrawford's experiments were criticized by scientists for their inadequate controls and lack of precaution against fraud. \n\nPhysician Morton Prince in the \"Journal of Abnormal Psychology\" noted that Crawford's psychic rod hypothesis \"fails to account for much and cannot be reconciled with what is scientifically known as matter, or force, or electricity, or energy.\" \n\nA review in the \"Journal of Applied Psychology\" suggested that Crawford does \"not seem to have been able to avoid self-deception, and his experiments are not convincing.\"\n\nPsychical researcher Hereward Carrington noted that the photographs taken by Crawford look \"dubious in appearance\" and that \"with rare exceptions, no other investigators had an opportunity to check-up his results, since outsiders were rarely admitted to the sittings.\"\n\nThe surgeon Charles Marsh Beadnell published a booklet in 1920 that debunked the experiments. He also offered a cash prize to any medium who could produce a single levitation under controlled conditions.\n\nBryan Donkin, M.D., studied the Crawford experiments called attention to \"the superabundant exposure of the massive credulity and total defect of logical power displayed by Dr. Crawford,\" who gives \"the most pathetic picture of a willing victim of pernicious deception\".\n\nPsychologist Joseph Jastrow criticized the Crawford experiments as unscientific and wrote that \"the minute detail of apparatus and all the paraphernalia of an engineering experiment which fills the Crawford books must ever remain an amazing document in the story of the metapsychic. As proof of what prepossession can do to a trained mind the case is invaluable.\"\n\nJoseph McCabe suggested that Goligher had used her feet and toes to levitate the table and move objects in the séance room and compared her fraudulent mediumship to Eusapia Palladino who performed similar tricks. Edward Clodd also dismissed the experiments as fraudulent and noted that Goligher refused invitation to be examined by a group of magicians and scientists.\n\nResearchers such as Ruth Brandon and Mary Roach have heavily criticized Crawford's investigation, describing him as credulous and having a sexual interest in Goligher, such as an obsession with her underwear. Crawford held a deep fixation on underwear, for example psychical researcher Theodore Besterman noted that before his suicide he \"spent all his money (consequently leaving nothing) on a stack of woollen underwear for his family, sufficient to last for several years.\"\n\nIn 1988, Susan Blackmore claimed that she had communicated with Dingwall about the case. Blackmore stated that Crawford had confessed to Dingwall that all the Goligher phenomena was fraudulent. Blackmore quotes Crawford as saying \"Ding, I have to tell you something. It was all faked, all of it.\"\n\n\n"}
{"id": "34730730", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34730730", "title": "Khader Adnan", "text": "Khader Adnan\n\nKhader Adnan Mohammad Musa (; born on 24 March 1978) is a senior member of the Palestinian Islamist organization Palestinian Islamic Jihad (PIJ) and a prisoner in Israel. He has been held in prison 10 times under administrative detention, a procedure which allows Israel to detain people for periods of 6 months, each renewable, without the filing of charges or a trial. As of June 15, 2015, Israeli authorities had not laid any formal charges against him, but have repeatedly held him for reasons such as \"activities that threaten regional security.\" A visit by an International Committee of the Red Cross delegation was cancelled after Israel insisted their visit be conducted in their presence, with Khader remaining tied to his bed. He was released on 18 April 2012 after being on hunger strike for 66 days, and rearrested under the same procedure on July 8, 2014. Khader was released in July, 2015.\n\nAdnan is widely reported as being a spokesman and leader in the Palestinian Islamic Jihad in the West Bank. His wife says he is not involved in militant activities and is a member of the Palestinian reconciliation committee. The PIJ is designated a terrorist group by a number of Western countries and Israel, and Adnan has been convicted in the past by Israel for being a spokesperson for the group. Though he has been detained several times since 1999 on the basis of alleged activities in a terrorist organization, Israel has never charged him with involvement in attacks on Israelis.\n\nHe was arrested on 17 December 2011 after midnight. The following day, to protest the conditions of his arrest, Israel's policy of administrative detention and its treatment of Palestinians under Israeli occupation, particularly prisoners, Adnan went on a hunger strike. On 21 Feb 2012 a deal was announced between Adnan and the Israeli authorities whereby they confirmed he would be released on April 17, 2012 and he would immediately end his hunger strike, the longest in Palestinian history.\n\nHe was detained again on July 8, 2014 and given a 6-month detention order. His detention was extended in January and May 2015, and on May 5, 2015 he began a second hunger strike. The government of Israel is determined to force feed him, and has drafted a law for that purpose, but the Israeli Medical Association has issued instructions to doctors to not cooperate with any force feeding.\n\nAdnan owns a bakery and a produce store in his home town of Arraba, near Jenin in the West Bank. He has an undergraduate degree in mathematics, and is pursuing a master's degree in economics. He is married to Randa Adnan, with whom he had two daughters, Maali and Bissan, prior to his 2011 detention, and Randa gave birth to their third child, Abdel Rahman, and in roughly late 2013, gave birth to triplets.\n\nOn 11th December 2017 the Israeli army detained Khader Adnan again. He resumed an open ended hunger strike on 2nd September 2018.\n\nAdnan's political activism dates back to his days as a student. In 1996, while studying for his undergraduate degree in mathematics at Birzeit University, he became a political advocate on behalf of the Palestinian Islamic Jihad (PIJ). A small Palestinian militant organization, the group has carried out suicide bombings and paramilitary operations against civilian and military targets and is considered a terrorist group by Israel, the United States, the European Union, the United Kingdom, Japan, Canada, and Australia.\n\nFirst arrested and detained by Israel in 1999, he has been detained roughly 10 times since—seven times by Israel (including his current detention), and 2 or 3 times by the Palestinian National Authority (PNA). The Palestinian prisoners' support group Addameer said Adnan has spent a total of six years in prison since 1999.\n\nAdnan spent four months under Israeli administrative capture in 1999. He was arrested by the PNA eight months after being released for leading a student demonstration against Lionel Jospin in 2000. At the demonstration, students threw eggs or stones at the former French Prime Minister during his visit to Birzeit to denounce his characterization of Hezbollah's military actions against the Israeli occupation as \"terrorism.\" His first hunger strike, 10 days long, was undertaken during his detention by the PNA. He spent a year in administrative detention following his December 2002 arrest by Israel. Rearrested six months after his release, he was placed in solitary confinement and went on hunger strike for 28 days until the Israel Prisons Service placed him with the general prison population.\n\nHe married his wife Randa Adnan in 2005; by this time he had been detained five times for his affiliation with Palestinian Islamic Jihad (PIJ). His wife said before they married he told her that, \"his life was not normal, that he might be around for 15 days and then be gone again for a long time. But I always dreamt of marrying someone strong, someone who struggles in defence of his country.\"\n\nAdnan has been convicted in the past by Israel for being a spokesperson for the PIJ, and media reports indicate he served as a PIJ spokesman. \"Gulf News\" said he has served as a spokesman for the group since 2000, while \"The Guardian\" and \"Agence France Press\" said he was a \"one-time spokesman\" for the PIJ in the past. Reports from \"Xinhua\" and \"Reuters\" in 2005 said he is considered a \"prominent [Islamic] Jihad leader\" and a \"senior Islamic Jihad official.\" In June 2005, after PIJ members were killed in a shootout with Israeli troops, Adnan \"called on all Palestinian militant groups to resume fighting with Israel\" and accused the governing entity the PNA of collaborating with Israel.\n\nIn August 2005, Adnan was arrested and imprisoned by Israel for 15 months. According to Addameer, he held a 12-day hunger strike to protest his isolation in Kfar Yona in 2005. A YouTube video of a rally in 2007 shows him praising and encouraging suicide bombings: \"Who among you will carry the next explosive belt? Who among you will fire the next bullets? Who among you will have his body parts blown all over?\" He was held by Israel for another six months in administrative detention beginning in March 2008. Arrested by the PNA in 2010 for his political activity, Gideon Levy said he undertook his first hunger strike during this 12-day detention.\n\nAt the time of his most recent arrest, Adnan was no longer an active spokesman for the PIJ. He was working as a baker while studying for a master's degree in economics at the Bir Zeit University. He owns the bakery in nearby Qabatya and a produce store in his hometown of Arraba, near Jenin in the West Bank. A father to two daughters, Maali and Bissan, Randa was pregnant with their third child, when he was arrested by the Israeli Army on 17 December 2011 from their home in Arraba in the middle of the night. The next day he began a hunger strike that ended 66 days later on 21 February 2012.\n\nIn a letter he gave to his lawyers for public release, Adnan explained why he was on hunger strike:\n\nThe Israeli occupation has gone to extremes against our people, especially prisoners. I have been humiliated, beaten, and harassed by interrogators for no reason, and thus I swore to God I would fight the policy of administrative detention to which I and hundreds of my fellow prisoners fell prey … The only thing I can do is offer my soul to God, as I believe righteousness and justice will eventually triumph over tyranny and oppression. I hereby assert that I am confronting the occupiers not for my own sake as an individual, but for the sake of thousands of prisoners who are being deprived of their simplest human rights while the world and international community look on. It is time the international community and the UN support prisoners and force the State of Israel to respect international human rights and stop treating prisoners as if they were not humans.\n\nAdnan was interrogated for 18 days following his arrest; he told his lawyers that during this time Israeli soldiers made sexual innuendos about his wife, mocked his Islamic faith, beat him, tied him to a chair in painful positions, ripped hair from his beard and wiped dirt on his face. Israeli authorities ignored these allegations. According to his wife and lawyers, Adnan's mistreatment continued and included lengthy periods of solitary confinement, multiple strip searches, and continuous abusive interrogation.\n\nHe has \"officially\" been under administrative detention since 10 January 2012, a term that was set to last until 8 May at which point his detention could be renewed if the Israeli authorities deem it necessary. As of 31 December 2011, there were 307 Palestinians in administrative detention, including 21 members of the Palestinian Legislative Council, the parliament of the Palestinian Authority. Under the administrative detention procedure, the Israeli military can hold detainees for renewable six-month periods without charge if it deems them to be security threats. The decision to detain an individual is based on evidence presented to military judges, but not the defendant or his lawyers, and is subject to judicial review.\n\nAdnan has not been formally charged with any crime; Israel claimed that he was arrested \"for activities that threaten regional security.\" \"BBC\", \"CNN\" and \"Al Jazeera\" reported that Adnan is believed to be a leader of the PIJ in the West Bank. \"Bikya Masr\" reported he is a \"senior leader of the Islamic Jihad organization\" and according to \"Al-Ahram\", He is a \"leading figure in Islamic Jihad.\"\n\nIt is not known if Adnan was directly involved in attacks on Israelis; he has never been charged as such by Israel. His wife Randa denied Adnan had any leadership role in the PIJ, or any role in militant activities, and said he was a member of a Palestinian reconciliation committee. She told \"YNET\" in 2011 that, \"It's true that he was the Islamic Jihad's spokesman during the intifada, but over the past four years he had nothing to do with it … He hadn't talked to anyone from the Islamic Jihad. He left that activity altogether.\"\n\nHe was transferred to a hospital on December 30 but refused treatment from Israeli doctors. After meeting Adnan in the hospital, the organization Physicians for Human Rights – Israel, expressed \"grave concern\" and about his situation, which its doctors described as \"critical.\" About 50 days into his hunger strike his wife Randa was permitted to visit him and stated he appeared emaciated and dirty and was shackled to his hospital bed.\n\nOn 9 February, in response to criticism from human rights groups, the Israeli Prison Authority stated Adnan's case was being \"strictly according to the law … with special attention being given to his humanitarian situation.\" The prison service also stated that Adnan agreed to take potassium pills and does not want to die.\n\nRanda Adnan appealed to Egyptian authorities to help release her husband stating \"Hope is now in Egypt to release Adnan. There's talk about Egyptian efforts to do so and I hope it's true. Egypt had an active role in the last prisoner exchange deal between Hamas and Israel – it is our older sister and we hope it intervenes.\" The Palestinian Ministry of Prisoners' Affairs confirmed that Egypt was intervening with Israel to release Adnan. She has also said that Adnan will not backtrack on his decision, and that, \"When I married him I knew I should expect anything. I am proud of him whether he is under the ground or above it.\"\n\nAlmost two months into his hunger strike, it was reported that Adnan agreed to having electrolytes, vitamins, glucose, and salts added to the water he is drinking. His doctors noted that, \"A fast in excess of 70 days does not permit survival. Infusion of liquids, adjustment of salts, and the addition of glucose and vitamin cannot prevent certain death due to such a protracted hunger strike.\"\n\nAn Israeli military court judge rejected his first appeal against detention in a session convened at a hospital in Safed where he was being held on 13 February 2012.\n\nOn 16 February, Adnan's lawyers petitioned the Supreme Court of Israel to release him, citing that Adnan is in \"immediate danger of death.\" Lawyer Mahmoud Kassandra stated \"This is the last chance. The medical report says he could die at any minute. We hope this will succeed but I am not optimistic.\" Following a visit to Adnan by Rebecca Ziv from Physicians for Human Rights – Israel, she said of his situation:\n\nHe has lost 30kg and weighs 60kg. He suffers from stomach aches, vomiting, sometimes with blood, and headaches … His general condition is pale and very weak, his tongue is smooth, he has slight bleeding from the gums, dry skin, loss of hair, and significant muscular atrophy. His pulse is weak, blood pressure 100/75. He is permanently connected to a heart monitor.\n\nThe Supreme Court initially scheduled a hearing for 23 February but moved it to 21 February following concerns about his health. Moments before the hearing was convened, it was announced that a deal had been reached between Adnan's lawyers and the Israeli prosecution lawyers whereby Adnan would stop his hunger strike in exchange for his 4-month detention being counted from the day of his arrest and a promise not to renew his administrative detention barring the presentation of any new evidence.\n\nIn spite of the agreement to end his first hunger strike (see above), Adnan was arrested again on July 8, 2014, at the beginning of the 2014 Israel–Gaza conflict, and has been held in detention ever since, beginning his second hunger strike on May 5, 2015. The government of Israel is seemingly determined to break Adnan's hunger strike using force feeding techniques similar to those used by the USA in its Guantanamo Bay prison camp. Israeli Minister of Public Security Gilad Erdan was quoted as saying \"Security prisoners are interested in turning hunger strikes into a new kind of suicide attack that would threaten the State of Israel. We cannot allow anyone to threaten us and we will not allow prisoners to die in our prisons.\" However, the Israeli Medical Society and various human rights groups are deploring this planned course of action by Israel, with the Medical Society issuing orders to Israeli doctors to not participate in any planned forced feedings except under certain limited circumstances not applicable to Adnan at this point in time.\n\nAdnan's hunger strike has drawn critical scrutiny of Israel's practice of administrative detention by a number of human rights groups, international bodies and Palestinian leaders and protesters. He has garnered a large following on Facebook and Twitter. Several of Adnan's supporters argue his case has not received proper coverage in the international and Israeli media.\n\nSome Palestinians have protested in the West Bank and the Gaza Strip in support of Adnan. Hundreds of Palestinian prisoners have joined Adnan's hunger strike in solidarity. Adnan's father Musa Adnan started an open-ended hunger strike on 6 February, telling \"Ma'an News Agency\" it would \"enable him to support his son and understand his pain.\" His hometown of Arraba has been a center of demonstrations, with solidarity protesters camping outside his house which Palestinian and foreign officials have been visiting to inquire about Adnan's health conditions. Around 50-60 Palestinian protested outside the Church of the Nativity in Bethlehem to show solidarity with Adnan on 8 February.\n\nOn 11 February hundreds of Palestinians staged a demonstration at the Ofer Prison where Adnan was being held. The Israeli Army dispersed the protesters using rubber bullets and tear gas, injuring 16. At a separate demonstration in Beit Ummar near Hebron two Israelis and two Palestinians were arrested by Israel. Dozens of students from Birzeit University that gathered outside Ofer Prison on 13 February demanding Adnan's release were dispersed by Israeli security forces resulting in the injury of 23 people. On 15 February, supporters began an open hunger strike at a sit-in in front of the International Committee of the Red Cross in Gaza City.\n\nOn 16 February, the 61st day of Adnan's hunger strike, thousands of demonstrators protested throughout the Palestinian territories. About 1,000 mostly young Palestinians protested outside of Ofer Prison before being dispersed and in Hebron, hundreds of supporters held a sit-in holding posters reading \"No to administrative arbitrary detention.\" That same day, Palestinians observed a 10-hour hunger strike in solidarity.\n\nAround 5,000 protesters demonstrated in Gaza City on 17 February chanting \"We are all Khader Adnan,\" with the PIJ, Hamas and Fatah factions all participating. In Jenin, meanwhile, hundreds of Palestinians partook in a solidarity protest.\n\nAddameer, a Palestinian prisoners' support group expressed \"utmost concern about the health\" of Adnan, holding Israel accountable for his life. The head of the Palestinian Prisoners' Society Qadura Fares condemned the Israeli court's refusal of Adnan's appeal.\n\nHuman Rights Watch stated Israel must \"immediately end its unlawful administrative detention\" of Adnan and \"charge or release him.\" Spokeswoman Sarah Leah Whitson said \"Israel should end, today, before it's too late, its almost two-month-long refusal to inform Adnan of any criminal charge or evidence against him.\" Amnesty International condemned Israel's policy of administrative detention, and the Israeli human rights group B'tselem sent an urgent request to Israeli Minister of Intelligence, Dan Meridor, to either immediately release or try Adnan to \"prevent a needless tragedy to him and his family.\"\n\nRichard Falk, the UN Special Rapporteur on Palestinian human rights, criticized \"authority figures, from the UN Secretary General on down,\" who he said expressed empathy for Gilad Shalit, while being \"notably silent in the much more compelling ordeal being experienced before our eyes in the form of Mr Adnan's captivity, seemingly unto death.\".\n\nThe Palestinian National Authority condemned his arrest and demanded his immediate release. In response to Israel's refusal of Adnan's appeal, Minister of Prisoners' Affairs Issa Qaraqe stated the decision showed \"utter disregard for Adnan's life, effectively condemning him to die.\" He praised Adnan for \"taking a stand\" against the use of administrative detention. At a rally on 16 February, Qaraqe said, \"Khader Adnan has become a national symbol, an Arab symbol and an international symbol for his defence of the dignity of free men throughout the entire world.\"\n\nPalestinian lawmaker Mustafa Barghouti, who was injured after being shot in the foot with a rubber bullet by Israeli security forces during a solidarity protest, called for an international campaign demanding Adnan's release. Palestinian Islamic Jihad leaders Sheikh Nafez Azzam, Dawood Shihab, Khader Habib and Ahmad Mudallal participated in the open hunger strike that began on 15 February saying it was the \"least we can do for this legendary symbol.\"\n\nAt a Friday sermon at the Great Mosque of Gaza, PIJ leader Nafez Azzam stated Adnan was \"not fighting for a personal cause, but for the defence of thousands of prisoners.\" Furthermore, he accused Arab and Western countries of ignoring Adnan's case saying \"Shame on the nations of hundreds of millions (of Muslims) for the fact that Khader Adnan is still in prison.\" Gaza-based Prime Minister Ismail Haniyeh, declared at a rally in Gaza that same day that, \"The Palestinian people, with all its components and its factions, will never abandon the hero prisoners, especially those who lead this hunger strike battle.\"\n\nOn 18 February, it was reported that in meetings with officials from China, Russia, the United Kingdom and the European Union, President Mahmoud Abbas and PLO negotiator Saeb Erekat pressed for Adnan's release.\n\nUnited Nations Special Coordinator for the Middle East peace process Robert Serry instructed Israel \"to do everything in its power to preserve the health of the prisoner and resolve this case while abiding by all legal obligations under international law.\" On 18 February, European Union head Catherine Ashton called on Israel to preserve Adnan's health and reiterated the EU's concern over \"the extensive use by Israel of administrative detention without formal charge.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "19252697", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19252697", "title": "Khadzhimurad Magomedov", "text": "Khadzhimurad Magomedov\n\nKhadzhimurad Magomedov (born 24 February 1974, Makhachkala, Dagestan ASSR) is a Russian wrestler and Olympic champion in Freestyle wrestling.\n\nMagomedov competed at the 1996 Summer Olympics in Atlanta where he received a gold medal in Freestyle wrestling, the \"middleweight\" class.\n\nMagomedov also became world champion at the 2001 World Wrestling Championships. He won a silver medal in 1999, and in 2 other appearances, 1997 and 1998, he finished in 4th place. Other notable achievements include winning the European Championships in 1997 and the World Military Games in 1999.\n"}
{"id": "17862", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17862", "title": "L. Ron Hubbard", "text": "L. Ron Hubbard\n\nLafayette Ronald Hubbard ( ; March 13, 1911 – January 24, 1986), often referred to by his initials LRH, was an American author and the founder of the Church of Scientology. After establishing a career as a writer of science fiction and fantasy stories, in 1950 he published a \"branch of self-help psychology\" called Dianetics. Hubbard subsequently developed his ideas into a new religious movement that he called Scientology. Hubbard was cited by \"Smithsonian\" magazine as one of the 100 most significant Americans of all time.\n\nBorn in Tilden, Nebraska in 1911, Hubbard spent much of his childhood in Helena, Montana. After his father was posted to the U.S. naval base on Guam, Hubbard traveled to Asia and the South Pacific in the late 1920s. In 1930, Hubbard enrolled at George Washington University to study civil engineering, but dropped out in his second year. He began his career as a prolific writer of pulp fiction stories and married Margaret \"Polly\" Grubb, who shared his interest in aviation.\n\nHubbard served briefly in the Marine Corps Reserve and was an officer in the Navy during World War II. He briefly commanded two ships, but was removed from command both times. The last few months of his active service were spent in a hospital, being treated for a duodenal ulcer.\n\nAfter the war, Hubbard moved into the Pasadena mansion of occultist and engineer Jack Parsons. In early 1946, Hubbard and Parsons collaborated on Babalon Working, a series of magic ceremonies or rituals. Hubbard became sexually involved with Parsons's 21-year-old girlfriend, Sara \"Betty\" Northrup, ultimately marrying her despite Hubbard still being married to first wife Polly.\n\nIn 1950, Hubbard authored and established a series of organizations to promote Dianetics. In 1952, Hubbard lost the rights to Dianetics in bankruptcy proceedings, and he subsequently founded Scientology. Thereafter Hubbard oversaw the growth of the Church of Scientology into a worldwide organization.\n\nDuring the late 1960s and early 1970s, he spent much of his time at sea on his personal fleet of ships as \"Commodore\" of the Sea Organization, an elite, paramilitary group of Scientologists. Some ex-members and scholars have described the Sea Org as a totalitarian organization marked by intensive surveillance and a lack of freedom. His expedition came to an end when Britain, Greece, Spain, Portugal, and Venezuela all closed their ports to his fleet.\n\nHubbard returned to the United States in 1975 and went into seclusion in the California desert. In 1978, a trial court in France convicted Hubbard of fraud \"in absentia\". In 1983 Hubbard was named as an unindicted co-conspirator in an international information infiltration and theft project called \"Operation Snow White\". He spent the remaining years of his life in a luxury motor home on his California property, attended to by a small group of Scientology officials including his physician. In 1986, L. Ron Hubbard died at age 74.\n\nThe Church of Scientology describes Hubbard in hagiographic terms, and he portrayed himself as a pioneering explorer, world traveler, and nuclear physicist with expertise in a wide range of disciplines, including photography, art, poetry, and philosophy. Though many of Hubbard's autobiographical statements have been found to be fictitious, the Church rejects any suggestion that its account of Hubbard's life is not historical fact. In Scientology publications, he is referred to as \"Founder\" and \"Source\" of Scientology and Dianetics.\n\nHis critics, including son Ronald DeWolf, have characterized Hubbard as a mentally-unstable chronic liar.\n\nLafayette Ronald Hubbard was born in 1911, in Tilden, Nebraska. He was the only child of Ledora May ( Waterbury), who had trained as a teacher, and Harry Ross Hubbard, a former United States Navy officer. After moving to Kalispell, Montana, they settled in Helena in 1913. Hubbard's father rejoined the Navy in April 1917, during World War I, while his mother worked as a clerk for the state government.\n\nDuring the 1920s the Hubbards repeatedly relocated around the United States and overseas. After Hubbard's father Harry rejoined the Navy, his posting aboard the USS \"Oklahoma\" in 1921 required the family to relocate to the ship's home ports, first San Diego, then Seattle. Hubbard was active in the Boy Scouts in Washington, D.C. and earned the rank of Eagle Scout in 1924, two weeks after his 13th birthday.\n\nThe following year, Harry Ross Hubbard was posted to Puget Sound Naval Shipyard at Bremerton, Washington. His son was enrolled at Union High School, Bremerton, and later studied at Queen Anne High School in Seattle. In 1927 Hubbard's father was sent to the U.S. Naval Station on Guam. Although Hubbard's mother accompanied her husband, while their child was placed in his grandparents' care in Helena, Montana to complete his schooling.\n\nIn 1927, Hubbard and his mother traveled to Guam. It consisted of a brief stop-over in a couple of Chinese ports before traveling on to Guam, where he stayed for six weeks before returning home. He recorded his impressions of the places he visited and disdained the poverty of the inhabitants of Japan and China, whom he described as \"gooks\" and \"lazy [and] ignorant\".\nAfter his return to the United States in September 1927, Hubbard enrolled at Helena High School, where he contributed to the school paper, but earned only poor grades. He abandoned school the following May and went back west to stay with his aunt and uncle in Seattle. He joined his parents in Guam in June 1928. His mother took over his education in the hope of putting him forward for the entrance examination to the United States Naval Academy at Annapolis, Maryland.\n\nBetween October and December 1928 a number of naval families, including Hubbard's, traveled from Guam to China aboard the cargo ship . The ship stopped at Manila in the Philippines before traveling on to Qingdao (Tsingtao) in China. Hubbard and his parents made a side trip to Beijing before sailing on to Shanghai and Hong Kong, from where they returned to Guam. Back on Guam, Hubbard spent much of his time writing dozens of short stories and essays and failed the Naval Academy entrance examination.\n\nIn September 1929 Hubbard was enrolled at the Swavely Preparatory School in Manassas, Virginia, to prepare him for a second attempt at the examination. However, he was ruled out of consideration due to his near-sightedness. He was instead sent to Woodward School for Boys in Washington, D.C. to qualify for admission to George Washington University. He successfully graduated from the school in June 1930 and entered the university the following September.\n\nHubbard studied civil engineering during his two years at George Washington University at the behest of his father, who \"decreed that I should study engineering and mathematics\".\n\nDuring Hubbard's final semester he organized an expedition to the Caribbean for \"fifty young gentleman rovers\" aboard the schooner \"Doris Hamlin\" commencing in June 1932. The aims of the \"Caribbean Motion Picture Expedition\" were stated as being to explore and film the pirate \"strongholds and bivouacs of the Spanish Main\" and to \"collect whatever one collects for exhibits in museums\". It ran into trouble even before it left the port of Baltimore: Ten participants quit and storms blew the ship far off course to Bermuda. Eleven more members of the expedition quit there and more left when the ship arrived at Martinique. With the expedition running critically short of money, the ship's owners ordered it to return to Baltimore.\n\nHubbard blamed the expedition's problems on the captain: \"the ship's dour Captain Garfield proved himself far less than a Captain Courageous, requiring Ron Hubbard's hand at both the helm and the charts.\" Specimens and photographs collected by the expedition are said by Scientology accounts to have been acquired by the University of Michigan, the U.S. Hydrographic Office, an unspecified national museum and \"The New York Times\", though none of those institutions have any record of this. Hubbard later wrote that the expedition \"was a crazy idea at best, and I knew it, but I went ahead anyway, chartered a four-masted schooner and embarked with some fifty luckless souls who haven't stopped their cursings yet.\" He called it \"a two-bit expedition and financial bust\", which resulted in some of its participants making legal claims against him for refunds.\n\nHubbard traveled to Puerto Rico in November 1932 after his father volunteered him for the Red Cross relief effort following the devastating 1932 San Ciprian hurricane. In a 1957 lecture Hubbard said that he had been \"a field executive with the American Red Cross in the Puerto Rico hurricane disaster\". According to his own account, Hubbard spent much of his time prospecting unsuccessfully for gold. Towards the end of his stay on Puerto Rico he appears to have done some work for a Washington, D.C. firm called West Indies Minerals Incorporated, accompanying a surveyor in an investigation of a small property near the town of Luquillo, Puerto Rico. The survey was unsuccessful. A few years later, Hubbard wrote:\n\nHubbard became a well-known and prolific writer for pulp fiction magazines during the 1930s. Scientology texts describe him as becoming \"well established as an essayist\" even before he had concluded college. Scientology claims he \"solved his finances, and his desire to travel by writing anything that came to hand\" and to have earned an \"astronomical\" rate of pay for the times.\n\nHis literary career began with contributions to the George Washington University student newspaper, \"The University Hatchet\", as a reporter for a few months in 1931. Six of his pieces were published commercially during 1932 to 1933. The going rate for freelance writers at the time was only a cent a word, so Hubbard's total earnings from these articles would have been less than $100 (). The pulp magazine \"Thrilling Adventure\" became the first to publish one of his short stories, in February 1934. Over the next six years, pulp magazines published around 140 of his short stories under a variety of pen names, including Winchester Remington Colt, Kurt von Rachen, René Lafayette, Joe Blitz and Legionnaire 148.\n\nAlthough he was best known for his fantasy and science fiction stories, Hubbard wrote in a wide variety of genres, including adventure fiction, aviation, travel, mysteries, westerns and even romance. Hubbard knew and associated with writers such as Isaac Asimov, Robert A. Heinlein, L. Sprague de Camp and A. E. van Vogt. His first full-length novel, \"Buckskin Brigades\", was published in 1937. He became a \"highly idiosyncratic\" writer of science fiction after being taken under the wing of editor John W. Campbell, who published many of Hubbard's short stories and also serialized a number of well-received novelettes that Hubbard wrote for Campbell's magazines \"Unknown\" and \"Astounding Science Fiction\". These included \"Fear\", \"Final Blackout\" and \"Typewriter in the Sky\". Science fiction newsletter Xignals reported that Hubbard wrote \"over 100,000 words a month\" during his peak. Martin Gardner asserted that his writing \"[wa]s done at lightning speed.\"\n\nHe wrote the script for \"The Secret of Treasure Island\", a 1938 Columbia Pictures movie serial.\n\nHubbard's literary earnings helped him to support his new wife, Margaret \"Polly\" Grubb. She was already pregnant when they married on April 13, 1933, but had a miscarriage shortly afterwards; a few months later, she became pregnant again. On May 7, 1934, she gave birth prematurely to a son who was named Lafayette Ronald Hubbard, Jr. and the nickname \"His Nibs\", invariably shortened to \"Nibs\". Their second child, Katherine May, was born on January 15, 1936. The Hubbards lived for a while in Laytonsville, Maryland, but were chronically short of money.\n\nIn the spring of 1936 they moved to Bremerton, Washington. They lived there for a time with Hubbard's aunts and grandmother before finding a place of their own at nearby South Colby. According to one of his friends at the time, Robert MacDonald Ford, the Hubbards were \"in fairly dire straits for money\" but sustained themselves on the income from Hubbard's writing. Hubbard spent an increasing amount of time in New York City, working out of a hotel room where his wife suspected him of carrying on affairs with other women.\n\nHubbard's authorship in mid-1938 of a still-unpublished manuscript called \"Excalibur\" is highlighted by the Church of Scientology as a key step in developing the principles of Scientology and Dianetics. The manuscript is said by Scientologists to have outlined \"the basic principles of human existence\" and to have been the culmination of twenty years of research into \"twenty-one races and cultures including Pacific Northwest Indian tribes, Philippine Tagalogs and, as he was wont to joke, the people of the Bronx\".\n\nAccording to Arthur J. Cox, a contributor to John W. Campbell's \"Astounding Science Fiction\" magazine, Hubbard told a 1948 convention of science fiction fans that \"Excalibur\" inspiration came during an operation in which he \"died\" for eight minutes. (Gerry Armstrong, Hubbard's archivist, explains this as a dental extraction performed under nitrous oxide, a chemical known for its hallucinogenic effects):\n\nArthur J. Burks, the President of the American Fiction Guild, wrote that an excited Hubbard called him and said: \"I want to see you right away. I have written THE book.\" Hubbard believed that \"Excalibur\" would \"revolutionize everything\" and that \"it was somewhat more important, and would have a greater impact upon people, than the Bible.\" It proposed that all human behavior could be explained in terms of survival and that to understand survival was to understand life. As Hubbard biographer Jon Atack notes, \"the notion that everything that exists is trying to survive became the basis of Dianetics and Scientology.\"\n\nAccording to Burks, Hubbard \"was so sure he had something 'away out and beyond' anything else that he had sent telegrams to several book publishers, telling them that he had written 'THE book' and that they were to meet him at Penn Station, and he would discuss it with them and go with whomever gave him the best offer.\" However, nobody bought the manuscript. Forrest J Ackerman, later Hubbard's literary agent, recalled that Hubbard told him \"whoever read it either went insane or committed suicide. And he said that the last time he had shown it to a publisher in New York, he walked into the office to find out what the reaction was, the publisher called for the reader, the reader came in with the manuscript, threw it on the table and threw himself out of the skyscraper window.\" Hubbard's failure to sell \"Excalibur\" depressed him; he told his wife in an October 1938 letter: \"Writing action pulp doesn't have much agreement with what I want to do because it retards my progress by demanding incessant attention and, further, actually weakens my name. So you see I've got to do something about it and at the same time strengthen the old financial position.\" He went on:\n\nThe manuscript later became part of Scientology mythology. An early 1950s Scientology publication offered signed \"gold-bound and locked\" copies for the sum of $1,500 apiece (). It warned that \"four of the first fifteen people who read it went insane\" and that it would be \"[r]eleased only on sworn statement not to permit other readers to read it. Contains data not to be released during Mr. Hubbard's stay on earth.\"\n\nHubbard joined The Explorers Club in February 1940 on the strength of his claimed explorations in the Caribbean and survey flights in the United States. He persuaded the club to let him carry its flag on an \"Alaskan Radio-Experimental Expedition\" to update the U.S. Coast Pilot guide to the coastlines of Alaska and British Columbia and investigate new methods of radio position-finding. The expedition consisted of Hubbard and his wife—the children were left at South Colby—aboard his ketch \"Magician\".\n\nHubbard told \"The Seattle Star\" in a November 1940 letter that the expedition was plagued by problems and did not get any further than Ketchikan near the southern end of the Alaska Panhandle, far from the Aleutian Islands. \"Magician's\" engine broke down only two days after setting off in July 1940. The Hubbards reached Ketchikan on August 30, 1940, after many delays following repeated engine breakdowns. The \"Ketchikan Chronicle\" reported—making no mention of the expedition—that Hubbard's purpose in coming to Alaska \"was two-fold, one to win a bet and another to gather material for a novel of Alaskan salmon fishing\". Having underestimated the cost of the trip, he did not have enough money to repair the broken engine. He raised money by writing stories and contributing to the local radio station and eventually earned enough to fix the engine, making it back to Puget Sound on December 27, 1940.\n\nAfter returning from Alaska, Hubbard applied to join the United States Navy. His Congressman, Warren G. Magnuson, wrote to President Roosevelt to recommend Hubbard as \"a gentleman of reputation\" who was \"a respected explorer\" and had \"marine masters papers for more types of vessels than any other man in the United States\". Hubbard was described as \"a key figure\" in writing organizations, \"making him politically potent nationally\". The Congressman concluded: \"Anything you can do for Mr Hubbard will be appreciated.\" His friend Robert MacDonald Ford, by now a State Representative for Washington, sent a letter of recommendation describing Hubbard as \"one of the most brilliant men I have ever known\". It called Hubbard \"a powerful influence\" in the Northwest and said that he was \"well known in many parts of the world and has considerable influence in the Caribbean and Alaska\". The letter declared that \"for courage and ability I cannot too strongly recommend him.\" Ford later said that Hubbard had written the letter himself: \"I don't know why Ron wanted a letter. I just gave him a letter-head and said, 'Hell, you're the writer, you write it!'\"\n\nHubbard was commissioned as a Lieutenant (junior grade) in the U.S. Naval Reserve on July 19, 1941.\n\nMost of his military service was spent ashore in the continental United States on administrative or training duties. He served for a short time in Australia but was sent home after quarreling with his superiors. He briefly commanded two anti-submarine vessels, the USS \"YP-422\" and USS \"PC-815\", in coastal waters off Massachusetts, Oregon and California in 1942 and 1943 respectively.\n\nAfter Hubbard reported that the \"PC-815\" had attacked and crippled or sunk two Japanese submarines off Oregon in May 1943, his claim was rejected by the commander of the Northwest Sea Frontier. Hubbard and Thomas Moulton, his second in command on the \"PC-815\", later said the Navy wanted to avoid panic on the mainland. A month later Hubbard unwittingly sailed the \"PC-815\" into Mexican territorial waters and conducted gunnery practice off the Coronado Islands, in the belief that they were uninhabited and belonged to the United States. The Mexican government complained and Hubbard was relieved of command. A fitness report written after the incident rated Hubbard as unsuitable for independent duties and \"lacking in the essential qualities of judgment, leadership and cooperation\". He served for a while as the Navigation and Training Officer for the USS \"Algol\" while it was based at Portland. A fitness report from this period recommended promotion, describing him as \"a capable and energetic officer, [but] very temperamental\", and an \"above average navigator\". However, he never held another such position and did not serve aboard another ship after the \"Algol\".\n\nHis medical records state that he was hospitalized with an acute duodenal ulcer rather than a war injury. He told his doctors that he was suffering from lameness caused by a hip infection and he told \"Look\" magazine in December 1950 that he had suffered from \"ulcers, conjunctivitis, deteriorating eyesight, bursitis and something wrong with my feet\". He was still complaining in 1951 of eye problems and stomach pains, which had given him \"continuous trouble\" for eight years, especially when \"under nervous stress\". This came well after Hubbard had promised that Dianetics would provide \"a cure for the very ailments that plagued the author himself then and throughout his life, including allergies, arthritis, ulcers and heart problems\".\n\nAn October 1945 Naval Board found that Hubbard was \"considered physically qualified to perform duty ashore, preferably within the continental United States\". He was discharged from hospital on December 4, 1945, and transferred to inactive duty on February 17, 1946. He resigned his commission with effect from October 30, 1950.\n\nHubbard's life underwent a turbulent period immediately after the war. According to his own account, he \"was abandoned by family and friends as a supposedly hopeless cripple and a probable burden upon them for the rest of my days\". His daughter Katherine presented a rather different version: his wife had refused to uproot their children from their home in Bremerton, Washington, to join him in California. Their marriage was by now in terminal difficulties and he chose to stay in California.\n\nIn August 1945 Hubbard moved into the Pasadena mansion of John \"Jack\" Whiteside Parsons. A leading rocket propulsion researcher at the California Institute of Technology and a founder of the Jet Propulsion Laboratory, Parsons led a double life as an avid occultist and Thelemite, follower of the English ceremonial magician Aleister Crowley and leader of a lodge of Crowley's magical order, Ordo Templi Orientis (OTO). He let rooms in the house only to tenants who he specified should be \"atheists and those of a Bohemian disposition\".\n\nHubbard befriended Parsons and soon became sexually involved with Parsons's 21-year-old girlfriend, Sara \"Betty\" Northrup. Despite this Parsons was very impressed with Hubbard and reported to Crowley:\n\nHubbard, whom Parsons referred to in writing as \"Frater H\", became an enthusiastic collaborator in the Pasadena OTO. The two men collaborated on the \"Babalon Working\", a sex magic ritual intended to summon an incarnation of Babalon, the supreme Thelemite Goddess. It was undertaken over several nights in February and March 1946 in order to summon an \"elemental\" who would participate in further sex magic. As Richard Metzger describes it,\n\nThe \"elemental\" arrived a few days later in the form of Marjorie Cameron, who agreed to participate in Parsons' rites. Soon afterwards, Parsons, Hubbard and Sara agreed to set up a business partnership, \"Allied Enterprises\", in which they invested nearly their entire savings—the vast majority contributed by Parsons. The plan was for Hubbard and Sara to buy yachts in Miami and sail them to the West Coast to sell for a profit. Hubbard had a different idea; he wrote to the U.S. Navy requesting permission to leave the country \"to visit Central & South America & China\" for the purposes of \"collecting writing material\"—in other words, undertaking a world cruise. Aleister Crowley strongly criticized Parsons's actions, writing: \"Suspect Ron playing confidence trick—Jack Parsons weak fool—obvious victim prowling swindlers.\" Parsons attempted to recover his money by obtaining an injunction to prevent Hubbard and Sara leaving the country or disposing of the remnants of his assets. They attempted to sail anyway but were forced back to port by a storm. A week later, Allied Enterprises was dissolved. Parsons received only a $2,900 promissory note from Hubbard and returned home \"shattered\". He had to sell his mansion to developers soon afterwards to recoup his losses.\n\nHubbard's fellow writers were well aware of what had happened between him and Parsons. L. Sprague de Camp wrote to Isaac Asimov on August 27, 1946, to tell him:\n\nOn August 10, 1946, Hubbard bigamously married Sara, while still married to Polly. It was not until 1947 that his first wife learned that he had remarried. Hubbard agreed to divorce Polly in June that year and the marriage was dissolved shortly afterwards, with Polly given custody of the children.\n\nDuring this period, Hubbard authored a document called The \"Affirmations\" (also referred to as the \"Admissions\"). They consist of a series of statements by and addressed to Hubbard, relating to various physical, sexual, psychological and social issues that he was encountering in his life. The Affirmations appear to have been intended to be used as a form of self-hypnosis with the intention of resolving the author's psychological problems and instilling a positive mental attitude. In , Reitman called the Affirmations \"the most revealing psychological self-assessment, complete with exhortations to himself, that [Hubbard] had ever made.\"\nAmong the Affirmations:\n\nAfter Hubbard's wedding to Sara, the couple settled at Laguna Beach, California, where Hubbard took a short-term job looking after a friend's yacht before resuming his fiction writing to supplement the small disability allowance that he was receiving as a war veteran. Working from a trailer in a run-down area of North Hollywood, Hubbard sold a number of science fiction stories that included his \"Ole Doc Methuselah\" series and the serialized novels \"The End Is Not Yet\" and \"To the Stars\". However, he remained short of money and his son, L. Ron Hubbard Jr, testified later that Hubbard was dependent on his own father and Margaret's parents for money and his writings, which he was paid at a penny per word, never garnered him any more than $10,000 prior to the founding of Scientology. He repeatedly wrote to the Veterans Administration (VA) asking for an increase in his war pension. In October 1947 he wrote:\n\nThe VA eventually did increase his pension, but his money problems continued. On August 31, 1948, he was arrested in San Luis Obispo, California, and subsequently pleaded guilty to a charge of petty theft, for which he was ordered to pay a $25 fine (). According to the Church of Scientology, around this time he \"accept[ed] an appointment as a Special Police Officer with the Los Angeles Police Department and us[ed] the position to study society's criminal elements\" and also \"worked with neurotics from the Hollywood film community\".\n\nIn late 1948 Hubbard and Sara moved to Savannah, Georgia. Here, Scientology sources say, he \"volunteer[ed] his time in hospitals and mental wards, saving the lives of patients with his counseling techniques\". Hubbard began to make the first public mentions of what was to become Dianetics. His first thoughts on the subject were compiled in a short book called \"The Original Thesis\", which contained basic conclusions about human aberrations and handling them with auditing. His first published articles in Dianetics were \"Terra Incognita: The Mind\" in the Explorer Club Journal and another one that impacted people more heavily in Astounding Science Fiction. The positive public response to these articles led Hubbard to expand it to Dianetics: The Modern Science of Mental Health. Scientologists consider the publication of the volume in May 9, 1950 as \"a seminal event of the century.\"\n\nHe wrote in January 1949 that he was working on a \"book of psychology\" about \"the cause and cure of nervous tension\", which he was going to call \"The Dark Sword\", \"Excalibur\" or \"Science of the Mind\". In April 1949, Hubbard wrote to several professional organizations to offer his research. None were interested, so he turned to his editor John W. Campbell, who was more receptive due to a long-standing fascination with fringe psychologies and psychic powers (\"psionics\") that \"permeated both his fiction and non-fiction\".\n\nCampbell invited Hubbard and Sara to move into a cottage at Bay Head, New Jersey, not far from his own home at Plainfield. In July 1949, Campbell recruited an acquaintance, Dr. Joseph Winter, to help develop Hubbard's new therapy of \"Dianetics\". Campbell told Winter:\n\nHubbard collaborated with Campbell and Winter to refine his techniques, testing them on science fiction fans recruited by Campbell. The basic principle of Dianetics was that the brain recorded every experience and event in a person's life, even when unconscious. Bad or painful experiences were stored as what he called \"engrams\" in a \"reactive mind\". These could be triggered later in life, causing emotional and physical problems. By carrying out a process he called \"auditing\", a person could be regressed through his engrams to re-experiencing past experiences. This enabled engrams to be \"cleared\". The subject, who would now be in a state of \"Clear\", would have a perfectly functioning mind with an improved IQ and photographic memory. The \"Clear\" would be cured of physical ailments ranging from poor eyesight to the common cold, which Hubbard asserted were purely psychosomatic.\n\nWinter submitted a paper on Dianetics to the \"Journal of the American Medical Association\" and the \"American Journal of Psychiatry\" but both journals rejected it. Hubbard and his collaborators decided to announce Dianetics in Campbell's \"Astounding Science Fiction\" instead. In an editorial, Campbell said: \"Its power is almost unbelievable; it proves the mind not only can but does rule the body completely; following the sharply defined basic laws set forth, physical ills such as ulcers, asthma and arthritis can be cured, as can all other psychosomatic ills.\" The birth of Hubbard's second daughter Alexis Valerie, delivered by Winter on March 8, 1950, came in the middle of the preparations to launch Dianetics. A \"Hubbard Dianetic Research Foundation\" was established in April 1950 in Elizabeth, New Jersey, with Hubbard, Sara, Winter and Campbell on the board of directors.\n\nHubbard described Dianetics as \"the hidden source of all psychosomatic ills and human aberration\" when he introduced Dianetics to the world in the 1950s. He further claimed that \"skills have been developed for their invariable cure.\" Dianetics was duly launched in \"Astounding's\" May 1950 issue and on May 9, Hubbard's companion book \"\" was published by Hermitage House. Hubbard abandoned freelance writing in order to promote Dianetics, writing several books about it in the next decade, delivering an estimated 4,000 lectures while founding Dianetics research organizations. The etymological origin of the word Dianetics are the words \"dia\", meaning \"through\" and \"nous\", meaning \"soul.\" Hubbard defined it as \"a spiritual healing technology\" and \"an organized science of thought.\"\n\nHubbard called Dianetics \"a milestone for man comparable to his discovery of fire and superior to his invention of the wheel and the arch\". It was an immediate commercial success and sparked what Martin Gardner calls \"a nationwide cult of incredible proportions\". By August 1950, Hubbard's book had sold 55,000 copies, was selling at the rate of 4,000 a week and was being translated into French, German and Japanese. Five hundred Dianetic auditing groups had been set up across the United States.\n\nDianetics was poorly received by the press and the scientific and medical professions. The American Psychological Association criticized Hubbard's claims as \"not supported by empirical evidence\". \"Scientific American\" said that Hubbard's book contained \"more promises and less evidence per page than any publication since the invention of printing\", while \"The New Republic\" called it a \"bold and immodest mixture of complete nonsense and perfectly reasonable common sense, taken from long acknowledged findings and disguised and distorted by a crazy, newly invented terminology\". Some of Hubbard's fellow science fiction writers also criticized it; Isaac Asimov considered it \"gibberish\" while Jack Williamson called it \"a lunatic revision of Freudian psychology\".\n\nSeveral famous individuals became involved with Dianetics. Aldous Huxley received auditing from Hubbard himself; the poet Jean Toomer and the science fiction writers Theodore Sturgeon and A. E. van Vogt became trained Dianetics auditors. Van Vogt temporarily abandoned writing and became the head of the newly established Los Angeles branch of the Hubbard Dianetic Research Foundation. Other branches were established in New York, Washington, D.C., Chicago, and Honolulu.\n\nAlthough Dianetics was not cheap, a great many people were nonetheless willing to pay; van Vogt later recalled \"doing little but tear open envelopes and pull out $500 checks from people who wanted to take an auditor's course\". Financial controls were lax. Hubbard himself withdrew large sums with no explanation of what he was doing with it. On one occasion, van Vogt saw Hubbard taking a lump sum of $56,000 (equivalent to $0.5 million at 2010 prices) out of the Los Angeles Foundation's proceeds. One of Hubbard's employees, Helen O'Brien, commented that at the Elizabeth, N.J. branch of the Foundation, the books showed that \"a month's income of $90,000 is listed, with only $20,000 accounted for\".\n\nHubbard played a very active role in the Dianetics boom, writing, lecturing and training auditors. Many of those who knew him spoke of being impressed by his personal charisma. Jack Horner, who became a Dianetics auditor in 1950, later said, \"He was very impressive, dedicated and amusing. The man had tremendous charisma; you just wanted to hear every word he had to say and listen for any pearl of wisdom.\" Isaac Asimov recalled in his autobiography how, at a dinner party, he, Robert Heinlein, L. Sprague de Camp and their wives \"all sat as quietly as pussycats and listened to Hubbard. He told tales with perfect aplomb and in complete paragraphs.\" As Atack comments, he was \"a charismatic figure who compelled the devotion of those around him\". Christopher Evans described the personal qualities that Hubbard brought to Dianetics and Scientology:\n\nHubbard's supporters soon began to have doubts about Dianetics. Winter became disillusioned and wrote that he had never seen a single convincing Clear: \"I have seen some individuals who are supposed to have been 'clear,' but their behavior does not conform to the definition of the state. Moreover, an individual supposed to have been 'clear' has undergone a relapse into conduct which suggests an incipient psychosis.\" He also deplored the Foundation's omission of any serious scientific research. Dianetics lost public credibility in August 1950 when a presentation by Hubbard before an audience of 6,000 at the Shrine Auditorium in Los Angeles failed disastrously. He introduced a Clear named Sonya Bianca and told the audience that as a result of undergoing Dianetic therapy she now possessed perfect recall. However, Gardner writes, \"in the demonstration that followed, she failed to remember a single formula in physics (the subject in which she was majoring) or the color of Hubbard's tie when his back was turned. At this point, a large part of the audience got up and left.\"\n\nHubbard also faced other practitioners moving into leadership positions within the Dianetics community. It was structured as an open, public practice in which others were free to pursue their own lines of research and claim that their approaches to auditing produced better results than Hubbard's. The community rapidly splintered and its members mingled Hubbard's ideas with a wide variety of esoteric and even occult practices. By late 1950, the Elizabeth, N.J. Foundation was in financial crisis and the Los Angeles Foundation was more than $200,000 in debt (). Winter and Art Ceppos, the publisher of Hubbard's book, resigned under acrimonious circumstances. Campbell also resigned, criticizing Hubbard for being impossible to work with, and blamed him for the disorganization and financial ruin of the Foundations. By the summer of 1951, the Elizabeth, N.J. Foundation and all of its branches had closed.\n\nThe collapse of Hubbard's marriage to Sara created yet more problems. He had begun an affair with his 20-year-old public relations assistant in late 1950, while Sara started a relationship with Dianetics auditor Miles Hollister. Hubbard secretly denounced the couple to the FBI in March 1951, portraying them in a letter as communist infiltrators. According to Hubbard, Sara was \"currently intimate with [communists] but evidently under coercion. Drug addiction set in fall 1950. Nothing of this known to me until a few weeks ago.\" Hollister was described as having a \"sharp chin, broad forehead, rather Slavic\". He was said to be the \"center of most turbulence in our organization\" and \"active and dangerous\". The FBI did not take Hubbard seriously: an agent annotated his correspondence with the comment, \"Appears mental.\"\n\nThree weeks later, Hubbard and two Foundation staff seized Sara and his year-old daughter Alexis and forcibly took them to San Bernardino, California, where he attempted unsuccessfully to find a doctor to examine Sara and declare her insane. He let Sara go but took Alexis to Havana, Cuba. Sara filed a divorce suit on April 23, 1951, that accused him of marrying her bigamously and subjecting her to sleep deprivation, beatings, strangulation, kidnapping and exhortations to commit suicide. The case led to newspaper headlines such as \"Ron Hubbard Insane, Says His Wife.\" Sara finally secured the return of her daughter in June 1951 by agreeing to a settlement with her husband in which she signed a statement, written by him, declaring:\n\nDianetics appeared to be on the edge of total collapse. However, it was saved by Don Purcell, a millionaire businessman and Dianeticist who agreed to support a new Foundation in Wichita, Kansas. Their collaboration ended after less than a year when they fell out over the future direction of Dianetics. The Wichita Foundation became financially nonviable after a court ruled that it was liable for the unpaid debts of its defunct predecessor in Elizabeth, N.J. The ruling prompted Purcell and the other directors of the Wichita Foundation to file for voluntary bankruptcy in February 1952. Hubbard resigned immediately and accused Purcell of having been bribed by the American Medical Association to destroy Dianetics. Hubbard established a \"Hubbard College\" on the other side of town where he continued to promote Dianetics while fighting Purcell in the courts over the Foundation's intellectual property.\n\nOnly six weeks after setting up the Hubbard College and marrying a staff member, 18-year-old Mary Sue Whipp, Hubbard closed it down and moved with his new bride to Phoenix, Arizona. He established a Hubbard Association of Scientologists International to promote his new \"Science of Certainty\"—Scientology. Scientology and Dianetics have been differentiated as follows: Dianetics is all about releasing the mind from the \"distorting influence of engrams\", and Scientology \"is the study and handling of the spirit in relation to itself, universes and other life\".\n\nThe Church of Scientology attributes its genesis to Hubbard's discovery of \"a new line of research\"—\"that man is most fundamentally a spiritual being (a thetan)\". Non-Scientologist writers have suggested alternative motives: that he aimed \"to reassert control over his creation\", that he believed \"he was about to lose control of Dianetics\", or that he wanted to ensure \"he would be able to stay in business even if the courts eventually awarded control of Dianetics and its valuable copyrights to ... the hated Don Purcell.\" Harlan Ellison has told a story of seeing Hubbard at a gathering of the Hydra Club in 1953 or 1954. Hubbard was complaining of not being able to make a living on what he was being paid as a science fiction writer. Ellison says that Lester del Rey told Hubbard that what he needed to do to get rich was start a religion.\n\nHubbard expanded upon the basics of Dianetics to construct a spiritually oriented (though at this stage not religious) doctrine based on the concept that the true self of a person was a thetan — an immortal, omniscient and potentially omnipotent entity. Hubbard taught that thetans, having created the material universe, had forgotten their god-like powers and become trapped in physical bodies. Scientology aimed to \"rehabilitate\" each person's self (the thetan) to restore its original capacities and become once again an \"Operating Thetan\". Hubbard insisted humanity was imperiled by the forces of \"aberration\", which were the result of engrams carried by immortal thetans for billions of years.\n\nIn 2012, Ohio State University professor Hugh Urban asserted that Hubbard had adopted many of his theories from the early to mid 20th century astral projection pioneer Sylvan Muldoon stating that Hubbard's description of exteriorizing the thetan is extremely similar if not identical to the descriptions of astral projection in occult literature popularized by Muldoon's widely read Phenomena of Astral Projection (1951) (co-written with Hereward Carrington) and that Muldoon's description of the astral body as being connected to the physical body by a long thin, elastic cord is virtually identical to the one described in Hubbard's \"Excalibur\" vision.\n\nHubbard introduced a device called an E-meter that he presented as having, as Miller puts it, \"an almost mystical power to reveal an individual's innermost thoughts\". He promulgated Scientology through a series of lectures, bulletins and books such as \"\" (\"a cold-blooded and factual account of your last sixty trillion years\") and \"Scientology: 8-8008\" (\"With this book, the ability to make one's body old or young at will, the ability to heal the ill without physical contact, the ability to cure the insane and the incapacitated, is set forth for the physician, the layman, the mathematician and the physicist.\")\n\nScientology was organized in a very different way from the decentralized Dianetics movement. The Hubbard Association of Scientologists (HAS) was the only official Scientology organization. Training procedures and doctrines were standardized and promoted through HAS publications, and administrators and auditors were not permitted to deviate from Hubbard's approach. Branches or \"orgs\" were organized as franchises, rather like a fast food restaurant chain. Each franchise holder was required to pay ten percent of income to Hubbard's central organization. They were expected to find new recruits, known as \"raw meat\", but were restricted to providing only basic services. Costlier higher-level auditing was only provided by Hubbard's central organization.\n\nAlthough this model would eventually be extremely successful, Scientology was a very small-scale movement at first. Hubbard started off with only a few dozen followers, generally dedicated Dianeticists; a seventy-hour series of lectures in Philadelphia in December 1952 was attended by just 38 people. Hubbard was joined in Phoenix by his 18-year-old son Nibs, who had been unable to settle down in high school. Nibs had decided to become a Scientologist, moved into his father's home and went on to become a Scientology staff member and \"professor\". Hubbard also traveled to the United Kingdom to establish his control over a Dianetics group in London. It was very much a shoestring operation; as Helen O'Brien later recalled, \"there was an atmosphere of extreme poverty and undertones of a grim conspiracy over all. At 163 Holland Park Avenue was an ill-lit lecture room and a bare-boarded and poky office some eight by ten feet—mainly infested by long haired men and short haired and tatty women.\" On September 24, 1952, only a few weeks after arriving in London, Hubbard's wife Mary Sue gave birth to her first child, a daughter whom they named Diana Meredith de Wolfe Hubbard.\n\nIn February 1953, Hubbard acquired a doctorate from the unaccredited Sequoia University. According to a Scientology biography, this was \"given in recognition of his outstanding work on Dianetics\" and \"as an inspiration to the many people ... who had been inspired by him to take up advanced studies in this field ...\" The British government concluded in the 1970s that Sequoia University was a \"degree mill\" operated by Joseph Hough, a Los Angeles chiropractor. Miller cites a telegram sent by Hubbard on February 27, 1953, in which he instructed Scientologist Richard de Mille to procure him a Ph.D. from Hough urgently—\"FOR GOSH SAKES EXPEDITE. WORK HERE UTTERLY DEPENDANT ON IT.\" Hough's \"university\" was closed down by the Californian authorities in 1971. British government officials noted in a report written in 1977: \"It has not and never had any authority whatsoever to issue diplomas or degrees and the dean is sought by the authorities 'for questioning'.\"\n\nA few weeks after becoming \"Dr.\" Hubbard, he wrote to Helen O'Brien—who had taken over the day-to-day management of Scientology in the United States—proposing that Scientology should be transformed into a religion. As membership declined and finances grew tighter, Hubbard had reversed the hostility to religion he voiced in \"Dianetics\". His letter to O'Brien discussed the legal and financial benefits of religious status. The idea may not have been new; Hubbard has been quoted as telling a science fiction convention in 1948: \"Writing for a penny a word is ridiculous. If a man really wants to make a million dollars, the best way would be to start his own religion.\" Scholar J. Gordon Melton notes, \"There is no record of Hubbard having ever made this statement, though several of his science fiction colleagues have noted the broaching of the subject on one of their informal conversations.\" The Church of Scientology has denied that Hubbard said this and insists that it is a misattributed quote that was said instead by George Orwell. Hubbard outlined plans for setting up a chain of \"Spiritual Guidance Centers\" charging customers $500 for twenty-four hours of auditing (\"That is real money ... Charge enough and we'd be swamped.\"). He wrote:\n\nO'Brien was not enthusiastic and resigned the following September, worn out by work. She criticized Hubbard for creating \"a temperate zone voodoo, in its inelasticity, unexplainable procedures, and mindless group euphoria\". He nonetheless pressed ahead and on December 18, 1953, he incorporated the Church of Scientology, Church of American Science and Church of Spiritual Engineering in Camden, New Jersey. Hubbard, his wife Mary Sue and his secretary John Galusha became the trustees of all three corporations. Hubbard later denied founding the Church of Scientology, and to this day, Scientologists maintain that the \"founding church\" was actually the Church of Scientology of California, established on February 18, 1954, by Scientologist Burton Farber. The reason for Scientology's religious transformation was explained by officials of the HAS:\n\nScientology franchises became Churches of Scientology and some auditors began dressing as clergymen, complete with clerical collars. If they were arrested in the course of their activities, Hubbard advised, they should sue for massive damages for molesting \"a Man of God going about his business\". A few years later he told Scientologists: \"If attacked on some vulnerable point by anyone or anything or any organization, always find or manufacture enough threat against them to cause them to sue for peace ... Don't ever defend, always attack.\" Any individual breaking away from Scientology and setting up his own group was to be shut down:\n\nThe 1950s saw Scientology growing steadily. Hubbard finally achieved victory over Don Purcell in 1954 when the latter, worn out by constant litigation, handed the copyrights of Dianetics back to Hubbard. Most of the formerly independent Scientology and Dianetics groups were either driven out of business or were absorbed into Hubbard's organizations. Hubbard marketed Scientology through medical claims, such as attracting polio sufferers by presenting the Church of Scientology as a scientific research foundation investigating polio cases. One advertisement during this period stated:\n\nScientology became a highly profitable enterprise for Hubbard. He implemented a scheme under which he was paid a percentage of the Church of Scientology's gross income and by 1957 he was being paid about $250,000 (). His family grew, too, with Mary Sue giving birth to three more children—Geoffrey Quentin McCaully on January 6, 1954; Mary Suzette Rochelle on February 13, 1955; and Arthur Ronald Conway on June 6, 1958. In the spring of 1959, he used his new-found wealth to purchase Saint Hill Manor, an 18th-century country house in Sussex, formerly owned by Sawai Man Singh II, the Maharaja of Jaipur. The house became Hubbard's permanent residence and an international training center for Scientologists.\n\nBy the start of the 1960s, Hubbard was the leader of a worldwide movement with thousands of followers. A decade later, however, he had left Saint Hill Manor and moved aboard his own private fleet of ships as the Church of Scientology faced worldwide controversy.\n\nThe Church of Scientology says that the problems of this period were due to \"vicious, covert international attacks\" by the United States government, \"all of which were proven false and baseless, which were to last 27 years and finally culminated in the Government being sued for 750 million dollars for conspiracy.\" Behind the attacks, stated Hubbard, lay a vast conspiracy of \"psychiatric front groups\" secretly controlling governments: \"Every single lie, false charge and attack on Scientology has been traced directly to this group's members. They have sought at great expense for nineteen years to crush and eradicate any new development in the field of the mind. They are actively preventing any effectiveness in this field.\"\n\nHubbard believed that Scientology was being infiltrated by saboteurs and spies and introduced \"security checking\" to identify those he termed \"potential trouble sources\" and \"suppressive persons\". Members of the Church of Scientology were interrogated with the aid of E-meters and were asked questions such as \"Have you ever practiced homosexuality?\" and \"Have you ever had unkind thoughts about L. Ron Hubbard?\" For a time, Scientologists were even interrogated about crimes committed in past lives: \"Have you ever destroyed a culture?\" \"Did you come to Earth for evil purposes?\" \"Have you ever zapped anyone?\"\n\nHe also sought to exert political influence, advising Scientologists to vote against Richard Nixon in the 1960 presidential election and establishing a Department of Government Affairs \"to bring government and hostile philosophies or societies into a state of complete compliance with the goals of Scientology\". This, he said, \"is done by high-level ability to control and in its absence by a low-level ability to overwhelm. Introvert such agencies. Control such agencies.\"\n\nThe U.S. Government was already well aware of Hubbard's activities. The FBI had a lengthy file on him, including a 1951 interview with an agent who considered him a \"mental case\". Police forces in a number of jurisdictions began exchanging information about Scientology through the auspices of Interpol, which eventually led to prosecutions. In 1958, the U.S. Internal Revenue Service withdrew the Washington, D.C. Church of Scientology's tax exemption after it found that Hubbard and his family were profiting unreasonably from Scientology's ostensibly non-profit income. The Food and Drug Administration took action against Scientology's medical claims, seizing thousands of pills being marketed as \"radiation cures\" as well as publications and E-meters. The Church of Scientology was required to label them as being \"ineffective in the diagnosis or treatment of disease\".\n\nFollowing the FDA's actions, Scientology attracted increasingly unfavorable publicity across the English-speaking world. It faced particularly hostile scrutiny in Victoria, Australia, where it was accused of brainwashing, blackmail, extortion and damaging the mental health of its members. The Victorian state government established a Board of Inquiry into Scientology in November 1963. Its report, published in October 1965, condemned every aspect of Scientology and Hubbard himself. He was described as being of doubtful sanity, having a persecution complex and displaying strong indications of paranoid schizophrenia with delusions of grandeur. His writings were characterized as nonsensical, abounding in \"self-glorification and grandiosity, replete with histrionics and hysterical, incontinent outbursts\". Sociologist Roy Wallis comments that the report drastically changed public perceptions of Scientology:\n\nThe report led to Scientology being banned in Victoria, Western Australia and South Australia, and led to more negative publicity around the world. Newspapers and politicians in the UK pressed the British government for action against Scientology. In April 1966, hoping to form a remote \"safe haven\" for Scientology, Hubbard traveled to the southern African country Rhodesia (today Zimbabwe) and looked into setting up a base there at a hotel on Lake Kariba. Despite his attempts to curry favour with the local government—he personally delivered champagne to Prime Minister Ian Smith's house, but Smith refused to see him—Rhodesia promptly refused to renew Hubbard's visa, compelling him to leave the country. In July 1968, the British Minister of Health, Kenneth Robinson, announced that foreign Scientologists would no longer be permitted to enter the UK and Hubbard himself was excluded from the country as an \"undesirable alien\". Further inquiries were launched in Canada, New Zealand and South Africa.\n\nHubbard took three major new initiatives in the face of these challenges. \"Ethics Technology\" was introduced to tighten internal discipline within Scientology. It required Scientologists to \"disconnect\" from any organization or individual—including family members—deemed to be disruptive or \"suppressive\". According to church-operated websites, \"A person who disconnects is simply exercising his right to communicate or not to communicate with a particular person.\" Hubbard stated: \"Communication, however, is a two-way flow. If one has the right to communicate, then one must also have the right to not receive communication from another. It is this latter corollary of the right to communicate that gives us our right to privacy.\" Scientologists were also required to write \"Knowledge Reports\" on each other, reporting transgressions or misapplications of Scientology methods. Hubbard promulgated a long list of punishable \"Misdemeanors\", \"Crimes\", and \"High Crimes\". The \"Fair Game\" policy was introduced, which was applicable to anyone deemed an \"enemy\" of Scientology: \"May be deprived of property or injured by any means by any Scientologist without any discipline of the Scientologist. May be tricked, sued or lied to or destroyed.\"\n\nAt the start of March 1966, Hubbard created the Guardian's Office (GO), a new agency within the Church of Scientology that was headed by his wife Mary Sue. It dealt with Scientology's external affairs, including public relations, legal actions and the gathering of intelligence on perceived threats. As Scientology faced increasingly negative media attention, the GO retaliated with hundreds of writs for libel and slander; it issued more than forty on a single day. Hubbard ordered his staff to find \"lurid, blood sex crime actual evidence on [Scientology's] attackers\".\n\nFinally, at the end of 1966, Hubbard acquired his own fleet of ships. He established the \"Hubbard Explorational Company Ltd\" which purchased three ships—the \"Enchanter\", a forty-ton schooner, the \"Avon River\", an old trawler, and the \"Royal Scotman\" , a former Irish Sea cattle ferry that he made his home and flagship. The ships were crewed by the Sea Organization or Sea Org, a group of Scientologist volunteers, with the support of a couple of professional seamen.\n\nAfter Hubbard created the Sea Org \"fleet\" in early 1967 it began an eight-year voyage, sailing from port to port in the Mediterranean Sea and eastern North Atlantic. The fleet traveled as far as Corfu in the eastern Mediterranean and Dakar and the Azores in the Atlantic, but rarely stayed anywhere for longer than six weeks. Ken Urquhart, Hubbard's personal assistant at the time, later recalled:\n\nWhen Hubbard established the Sea Org he publicly declared that he had relinquished his management responsibilities. According to Miller, this was not true. He received daily telex messages from Scientology organizations around the world reporting their statistics and income. The Church of Scientology sent him $15,000 () a week and millions of dollars were transferred to his bank accounts in Switzerland and Liechtenstein. Couriers arrived regularly, conveying luxury food for Hubbard and his family or cash that had been smuggled from England to avoid currency export restrictions.\n\nAlong the way, Hubbard sought to establish a safe haven in \"a friendly little country where Scientology would be allowed to prosper\", as Miller puts it. The fleet stayed at Corfu for several months in 1968–1969. Hubbard renamed the ships after Greek gods—the \"Royal Scotman\" was rechristened \"Apollo\"—and he praised the recently established military dictatorship. The Sea Org was represented as \"Professor Hubbard's Philosophy School\" in a telegram to the Greek government. In March 1969, however, Hubbard and his ships were ordered to leave. In mid-1972, Hubbard tried again in Morocco, establishing contacts with the country's secret police and training senior policemen and intelligence agents in techniques for detecting subversives. The program ended in failure when it became caught up in internal Moroccan politics, and Hubbard left the country hastily in December 1972.\n\nAt the same time, Hubbard was still developing Scientology's doctrines. A Scientology biography states that \"free of organizational duties and aided by the first Sea Org members, L. Ron Hubbard now had the time and facilities to confirm in the physical universe some of the events and places he had encountered in his journeys down the track of time.\" In 1965, he designated several existing Scientology courses as confidential, repackaging them as the first of the esoteric \"OT levels\". Two years later he announced the release of OT3, the \"Wall of Fire\", revealing the secrets of an immense disaster that had occurred \"on this planet, and on the other seventy-five planets which form this Confederacy, seventy-five million years ago\". Scientologists were required to undertake the first two OT levels before learning how Xenu, the leader of the Galactic Confederacy, had shipped billions of people to Earth and blown them up with hydrogen bombs, following which their traumatized spirits were stuck together at \"implant stations\", brainwashed with false memories and eventually became contained within human beings. The discovery of OT3 was said to have taken a major physical toll on Hubbard, who announced that he had broken a knee, an arm, and his back during the course of his research. A year later, in 1968, he unveiled OT levels 4 to 6 and began delivering OT training courses to Scientologists aboard the \"Royal Scotman\".\n\nScientologists around the world were presented with a glamorous picture of life in the Sea Org and many applied to join Hubbard aboard the fleet. What they found was rather different from the image. Most of those joining had no nautical experience at all. Mechanical difficulties and blunders by the crews led to a series of embarrassing incidents and near-disasters. Following one incident in which the rudder of the \"Royal Scotman\" was damaged during a storm, Hubbard ordered the ship's entire crew to be reduced to a \"condition of liability\" and wear gray rags tied to their arms. The ship itself was treated the same way, with dirty tarpaulins tied around its funnel to symbolize its lower status. According to those aboard, conditions were appalling; the crew was worked to the point of exhaustion, given meagre rations and forbidden to wash or change their clothes for several weeks. Hubbard maintained a harsh disciplinary regime aboard the fleet, punishing mistakes by confining people in the \"Royal Scotman\" bilge tanks without toilet facilities and with food provided in buckets. At other times erring crew members were thrown overboard with Hubbard looking on and, occasionally, filming. David Mayo, a Sea Org member at the time, later recalled:\n\nFrom about 1970, Hubbard was attended aboard ship by the children of Sea Org members, organized as the Commodore's Messenger Organization (CMO). They were mainly young girls dressed in hot pants and halter tops, who were responsible for running errands for Hubbard such as lighting his cigarettes, dressing him or relaying his verbal commands to other members of the crew. In addition to his wife Mary Sue, he was accompanied by all four of his children by her, though not his first son Nibs, who had defected from Scientology in late 1959. The younger Hubbards were all members of the Sea Org and shared its rigors, though Quentin Hubbard reportedly found it difficult to adjust and attempted suicide in mid-1974.\n\nDuring the 1970s, Hubbard faced an increasing number of legal threats. French prosecutors charged him and the French Church of Scientology with fraud and customs violations in 1972. He was advised that he was at risk of being extradited to France. Hubbard left the Sea Org fleet temporarily at the end of 1972, living incognito in Queens, New York, until he returned to his flagship in September 1973 when the threat of extradition had abated. Scientology sources say that he carried out \"a sociological study in and around New York City\".\n\nHubbard's health deteriorated significantly during this period. A chain-smoker, he also suffered from bursitis and excessive weight, and had a prominent growth on his forehead. He suffered serious injuries in a motorcycle accident in 1973 and had a heart attack in 1975 that required him to take anticoagulant drugs for the next year. In September 1978, Hubbard had a pulmonary embolism, falling into a coma, but recovered.\n\nHe remained active in managing and developing Scientology, establishing the controversial Rehabilitation Project Force in 1974 and issuing policy and doctrinal bulletins. However, the Sea Org's voyages were coming to an end. The \"Apollo\" was banned from several Spanish ports and was expelled from Curaçao in October 1975. The Sea Org came to be suspected of being a CIA operation, leading to a riot in Funchal, Madeira, when the \"Apollo\" docked there. At the time, \"The Apollo Stars\", a musical group founded by Hubbard and made up entirely of shipbound members of the Sea Org, was offering free on-pier concerts in an attempt to promote Scientology, and the riot occurred at one of these events. Hubbard decided to relocate back to the United States to establish a \"land base\" for the Sea Org in Florida. The Church of Scientology attributes this decision to the activities on the \"Apollo\" having \"outgrow[n] the ship's capacity\".\n\nIn October 1975, Hubbard moved into a hotel suite in Daytona Beach. The Fort Harrison Hotel in Clearwater, Florida, was secretly acquired as the location for the \"land base\". On December 5, 1975, Hubbard and his wife Mary Sue moved into a condominium complex in nearby Dunedin. Their presence was meant to be a closely guarded secret but was accidentally compromised the following month. Hubbard immediately left Dunedin and moved to Georgetown, Washington, D.C., accompanied by a handful of aides and messengers, but not his wife. Six months later, following another security alert in July 1976, Hubbard moved to another safe house in Culver City, California. He lived there for only about three months, relocating in October to the more private confines of the Olive Tree Ranch near La Quinta. His second son Quentin committed suicide a few weeks later in Las Vegas.\n\nThroughout this period, Hubbard was heavily involved in directing the activities of the Guardian's Office (GO), the legal bureau/intelligence agency that he had established in 1966. He believed that Scientology was being attacked by an international Nazi conspiracy, which he termed the \"Tenyaka Memorial\", through a network of drug companies, banks and psychiatrists in a bid to take over the world. In 1973, he instigated the \"Snow White Program\" and directed the GO to remove negative reports about Scientology from government files and track down their sources. The GO was ordered to \"get all false and secret files on Scientology, LRH  ... that cannot be obtained legally, by all possible lines of approach ... i.e., job penetration, janitor penetration, suitable guises utilizing covers.\" His involvement in the GO's operations was concealed through the use of codenames. The GO carried out covert campaigns on his behalf such as Operation Bulldozer Leak, intended \"to effectively spread the rumor that will lead Government, media, and individual <nowiki>[</nowiki>Suppressive Persons<nowiki>]</nowiki> to conclude that LRH has no control of the C of S and no legal liability for Church activity\". He was kept informed of GO operations, such as the theft of medical records from a hospital, harassment of psychiatrists and infiltrations of organizations that had been critical of Scientology at various times, such as the Better Business Bureau, the American Medical Association, and American Psychiatric Association.\n\nMembers of the GO infiltrated and burglarized numerous government organizations, including the U.S. Department of Justice and the Internal Revenue Service. After two GO agents were caught in the Washington, D.C. headquarters of the IRS, the FBI carried out simultaneous raids on GO offices in Los Angeles and Washington, D.C. on July 7, 1977. They retrieved wiretap equipment, burglary tools and some 90,000 pages of incriminating documents. Hubbard was not prosecuted, though he was labeled an \"unindicted co-conspirator\" by government prosecutors. His wife Mary Sue was indicted and subsequently convicted of conspiracy. She was sent to a federal prison along with ten other Scientologists.\n\nHubbard's troubles increased in February 1978 when a French court convicted him in absentia for obtaining money under false pretenses. He was sentenced to four years in prison and a 35,000FF ($7,000) fine, . He went into hiding in April 1979, moving to an apartment in Hemet, California, where his only contact with the outside world was via ten trusted Messengers. He cut contact with everyone else, even his wife, whom he saw for the last time in August 1979. Hubbard faced a possible indictment for his role in Operation Freakout, the GO's campaign against New York journalist Paulette Cooper, and in February 1980 he disappeared into deep cover in the company of two trusted Messengers, Pat and Anne Broeker.\n\nFor the first few years of the 1980s, Hubbard and the Broekers lived on the move, touring the Pacific Northwest in a recreational vehicle and living for a while in apartments in Newport Beach and Los Angeles. Hubbard used his time in hiding to write his first new works of science fiction for nearly thirty years—\"Battlefield Earth\" (1982) and \"Mission Earth\", a ten-volume series published between 1985 and 1987. They received mixed responses; as writer Jeff Walker puts it, they were \"treated derisively by most critics but greatly admired by followers\". Hubbard also wrote and composed music for three of his albums, which were produced by the Church of Scientology. The book soundtrack \"Space Jazz\" was released in 1982. \"Mission Earth\" and \"The Road to Freedom\" were released posthumously in 1986.\n\nIn Hubbard's absence, members of the Sea Org staged a takeover of the Church of Scientology and purged many veteran Scientologists. A young Messenger, David Miscavige, became Scientology's \"de facto\" leader. Mary Sue Hubbard was forced to resign her position and her daughter Suzette became Miscavige's personal maid.\n\nFor the last two years of his life, Hubbard lived in a luxury Blue Bird motorhome on Whispering Winds, a 160-acre ranch near Creston, California. He remained in deep hiding while controversy raged in the outside world about whether he was still alive and if so, where. He spent his time \"writing and researching\", according to a spokesperson, and pursued photography and music, overseeing construction work and checking on his animals. He repeatedly redesigned the property, spending millions of dollars remodeling the ranch house—which went virtually uninhabited—and building a quarter-mile horse-racing track with an observation tower, which reportedly was never used.\n\nHe was still closely involved in managing the Church of Scientology via secretly delivered orders and continued to receive large amounts of money, of which \"Forbes\" magazine estimated \"at least $200 million [was] gathered in Hubbard's name through 1982.\" In September 1985, the IRS notified the Church that it was considering indicting Hubbard for tax fraud.\n\nHubbard suffered further ill-health, including chronic pancreatitis, during his residence at Whispering Winds. He suffered a stroke on January 17, 1986, and died a week later. His body was cremated and the ashes were scattered at sea. Scientology leaders announced that his body had become an impediment to his work and that he had decided to \"drop his body\" to continue his research on another planet, having \"learned how to do it without a body\".\n\nHubbard was survived by his wife Mary Sue and all of his children except his second son Quentin. His will provided a trust fund to support Mary Sue; her children Arthur, Diana and Suzette; and Katherine, the daughter of his first wife Polly. He disinherited two of his other children. L. Ron Hubbard, Jr. had become estranged, changed his name to \"Ronald DeWolf\" and, in 1982, sued unsuccessfully for control of his father's estate. Alexis Valerie, Hubbard's daughter by his second wife Sara, had attempted to contact her father in 1971. She was rebuffed with the implied claim that her real father was Jack Parsons rather than Hubbard, and that her mother had been a Nazi spy during the war. Both later accepted settlements when litigation was threatened. In 2001, Diana and Suzette were reported to still be Church members, while Arthur had left and become an artist. Hubbard's great-grandson, Jamie DeWolf, is a noted slam poet.\n\nThe copyrights of his works and much of his estate and wealth were willed to the Church of Scientology. In a bulletin dated May 5, 1980, Hubbard told his followers to preserve his teachings until an eventual reincarnation when he would return \"not as a religious leader but as a political one\". The Church of Spiritual Technology (CST), a sister organization of the Church of Scientology, has engraved Hubbard's entire corpus of Scientology and Dianetics texts on steel tablets stored in titanium containers. They are buried at the Trementina Base in a vault under a mountain near Trementina, New Mexico, on top of which the CST's logo has been bulldozed on such a gigantic scale that it is visible from space.\n\nHubbard is the Guinness World Record holder for the most published author, with 1,084 works, most translated book (70 languages for \"The Way to Happiness\") and most audiobooks (185 as of April 2009). According to Galaxy Press, Hubbard's \"Battlefield Earth\" has sold over 6 million copies and \"Mission Earth\" a further 7 million, with each of its ten volumes becoming \"New York Times\" bestsellers on their release; however, the \"Los Angeles Times\" reported in 1990 that Hubbard's followers had been buying large numbers of the books and re-issuing them to stores, so as to boost sales figures. Opinions are divided about his literary legacy. Scientologists have written of their desire to \"make Ron the most acclaimed and widely known author of all time\". The sociologist William Sims Bainbridge writes that even at his peak in the late 1930s Hubbard was regarded by readers of \"Astounding Science Fiction\" as merely \"a passable, familiar author but not one of the best\", while by the late 1970s \"the [science fiction] subculture wishes it could forget him\" and fans gave him a worse rating than any other of the \"Golden Age\" writers.\n\nPosthumously, the Los Angeles City Council named a part of the street close to the headquarters of Scientology in 1996, as recognition of Hubbard. In 2011, the West Valley City Council declared March 13 as L. Ron Hubbard Centennial Day. On April 2016, the New Jersey State Board of Education approved Hubbard's birthday as one of its religious holidays.\n\nIn 2004, eighteen years after Hubbard's death, the Church claimed eight million followers worldwide. According to religious scholar J. Gordon Melton, this is an overestimate, counting as Scientologists people who had merely bought a book. The City University of New York's American Religious Identification Survey found that by 2009 only 25,000 Americans identified as Scientologists. Hubbard's presence still pervades Scientology. Every Church of Scientology maintains an office reserved for Hubbard, with a desk, chair and writing equipment, ready to be used. Lonnie D. Kliever notes that Hubbard was \"the only source of the religion, and he has no successor\". Hubbard is referred to simply as \"Source\" within Scientology and the theological acceptability of any Scientology-related activity is determined by how closely it adheres to Hubbard's doctrines. Hubbard's name and signature are official trademarks of the Religious Technology Center, established in 1982 to control and oversee the use of Hubbard's works and Scientology's trademarks and copyrights. The RTC is the central organization within Scientology's complex corporate hierarchy and has put much effort into re-checking the accuracy of all Scientology publications to \"ensur[e] the availability of the pure unadulterated writings of Mr. Hubbard to the coming generations\".\n\nThe Danish historian of religions Mikael Rothstein describes Scientology as \"a movement focused on the figure of Hubbard\". He comments: \"The fact that [Hubbard's] life is mythologized is as obvious as in the cases of Jesus, Muhammad or Siddartha Gotama. This is how religion works. Scientology, however, rejects this analysis altogether, and goes to great lengths to defend every detail of Hubbard's amazing and fantastic life as plain historical fact.\" Hubbard is presented as \"the master of a multitude of disciplines\" who performed extraordinary feats as a photographer, composer, scientist, therapist, explorer, navigator, philosopher, poet, artist, humanitarian, adventurer, soldier, scout, musician and many other fields of endeavor. The Church of Scientology portrays Hubbard's life and work as having proceeded seamlessly, \"as if they were a continuous set of predetermined events and discoveries that unfolded through his lifelong research\" even up to and beyond his death.\n\nAccording to Rothstein's assessment of Hubbard's legacy, Scientology consciously aims to transfer the charismatic authority of Hubbard to institutionalize his authority over the organization, even after his death. Hubbard is presented as a virtually superhuman religious ideal just as Scientology itself is presented as the most important development in human history. As Rothstein puts it, \"reverence for Scientology's scripture is reverence for Hubbard, the man who in the Scientological perspective single-handedly brought salvation to all human beings.\" David G. Bromley of the University of Virginia comments that the real Hubbard has been transformed into a \"prophetic persona\", \"LRH\", which acts as the basis for his prophetic authority within Scientology and transcends his biographical history. According to Dorthe Refslund Christensen, Hubbard's hagiography directly compares him with Buddha. Hubbard is viewed as having made Eastern traditions more accessible by approaching them with a scientific attitude. \"Hubbard is seen as the ultimate-cross-cultural savior; he is thought to be able to release man from his miserable condition because he had the necessary background, and especially the right attitude.\"\n\nHubbard, although increasingly deified after his death, is the model Operating Thetan to Scientologists and their founder, and not God. Hubbard then is the \"Source\", \"inviting others to follow his path in ways comparable to a Bodhisattva figure\" according to religious scholar Donald A. Westbrook. Scientologists refer to L. Ron Hubbard as \"Ron\", referring to him as a personal friend.\n\nIn the late 1970s two men began to assemble a picture of Hubbard's life. Michael Linn Shannon, a resident of Portland, Oregon, became interested in Hubbard's life story after an encounter with a Scientology recruiter. Over the next four years he collected previously undisclosed records and documents. He intended to write an exposé of Hubbard and sent a copy of his findings and key records to a number of contacts but was unable to find a publisher.\n\nShannon's findings were acquired by Gerry Armstrong, a Scientologist who had been appointed Hubbard's official archivist. He had been given the job of assembling documents relating to Hubbard's life for the purpose of helping Omar V. Garrison, a non-Scientologist who had written two books sympathetic to Scientology, to write an official biography. However, the documents that he uncovered convinced both Armstrong and Garrison that Hubbard had systematically misrepresented his life. Garrison refused to write a \"puff piece\" and declared that he would not \"repeat all the falsehoods they [the Church of Scientology] had perpetuated over the years\". He wrote a \"warts and all\" biography while Armstrong quit Scientology, taking five boxes of papers with him. The Church of Scientology and Mary Sue Hubbard sued for the return of the documents while settling out of court with Garrison, requiring him to turn over the nearly completed manuscript of the biography. In October 1984 Judge Paul G. Breckenridge ruled in Armstrong's favor, saying:\n\nIn November 1987, the British journalist and writer Russell Miller published \"Bare-faced Messiah\", the first full-length biography of L. Ron Hubbard. He drew on Armstrong's papers, official records and interviews with those who had known Hubbard including ex-Scientologists and family members. The book was well-received by reviewers but the Church of Scientology sought unsuccessfully to prohibit its publication on the grounds of copyright infringement. Other critical biographical accounts are found in Bent Corydon's \"L. Ron Hubbard, Messiah or Madman?\" (1987) and Jon Atack's \"A Piece of Blue Sky\" (1990).\n\nHagiographical accounts published by the Church of Scientology describe Hubbard as \"a child prodigy of sorts\" who rode a horse before he could walk and was able to read and write by the age of four. A Scientology profile says that he was brought up on his grandfather's \"large cattle ranch in Montana\" where he spent his days \"riding, breaking broncos, hunting coyote and taking his first steps as an explorer\". His grandfather is described as a \"wealthy Western cattleman\" from whom Hubbard \"inherited his fortune and family interests in America, Southern Africa, etc.\" Scientology claims that Hubbard became a \"blood brother\" of the Native American Blackfeet tribe at the age of six through his friendship with a Blackfeet medicine man.\n\nHowever, contemporary records show that his grandfather, Lafayette Waterbury, was a veterinarian, not a rancher, and was not wealthy. Hubbard was actually raised in a townhouse in the center of Helena. According to his aunt, his family did not own a ranch but did own one cow and four or five horses on a few acres of land outside the city. Hubbard lived over a hundred miles from the Blackfeet reservation. While some sources support Scientology's claim of Hubbard's blood brotherhood, other sources say that the tribe did not practice blood brotherhood and no evidence has been found that he had ever been a Blackfeet blood brother.\n\nAccording to Scientology biographies, during a journey to Washington, D.C. in 1923 Hubbard learned of Freudian psychology from Commander Joseph \"Snake\" Thompson, a U.S. Navy psychoanalyst and medic. Scientology biographies describe this encounter as giving Hubbard training in a particular scientific approach to the mind, which he found unsatisfying. In his diary, Hubbard claimed he was the youngest Eagle Scout in the U.S.\n\nScientology texts present Hubbard's travels in Asia as a time when he was intensely curious for answers to human suffering and explored ancient Eastern philosophies for answers, but found them lacking. He is described as traveling to China \"at a time when few Westerners could enter\" and according to Scientology, spent his time questioning Buddhist lamas and meeting old Chinese magicians. According to church materials, his travels were funded by his \"wealthy grandfather\".\n\nScientology accounts say that Hubbard \"made his way deep into Manchuria's Western Hills and beyond — to break bread with Mongolian bandits, share campfires with Siberian shamans and befriend the last in the line of magicians from the court of Kublai Khan\". However, Hubbard did not record these events in his diary. He remained unimpressed with China and the Chinese, writing: \"A Chinaman can not live up to a thing, he always drags it down.\" He characterized the sights of Beijing as \"rubberneck stations\" for tourists and described the palaces of the Forbidden City as \"very trashy-looking\" and \"not worth mentioning\". He was impressed by the Great Wall of China near Beijing, but concluded of the Chinese: \"They smell of all the baths they didn't take. The trouble with China is, there are too many chinks here.\"\n\nDespite not graduating from George Washington, Hubbard claimed \"to be not only a graduate engineer, but 'a member of the first United States course in formal education in what is called today nuclear physics.'\" However, a Church of Scientology biography describes him as \"never noted for being in class\" and says that he \"thoroughly detest[ed] his subjects\". He earned poor grades, was placed on probation in September 1931 and dropped out altogether in the fall of 1932.\n\nScientology accounts say that he \"studied nuclear physics at George Washington University in Washington, D.C., before he started his studies about the mind, spirit and life\" and Hubbard himself stated that he \"set out to find out from nuclear physics a knowledge of the physical universe, something entirely lacking in Asian philosophy\". His university records indicate that his exposure to \"nuclear physics\" consisted of one class in \"atomic and molecular phenomena\" for which he earned an \"F\" grade.\n\nScientologists claim he was more interested in extracurricular activities, particularly writing and flying. According to church materials, \"he earned his wings as a pioneering barnstormer at the dawn of American aviation\" and was \"recognized as one of the country's most outstanding pilots. With virtually no training time, he takes up powered flight and barnstorms throughout the Midwest.\" His airman certificate, however, records that he qualified to fly only gliders rather than powered aircraft and gave up his certificate when he could not afford the renewal fee.\nAfter leaving university Hubbard traveled to Puerto Rico on what the Church of Scientology calls the \"Puerto Rican Mineralogical Expedition\". Scientologists claim he \"made the first complete mineralogical survey of Puerto Rico\" as a means of \"augmenting his [father's] pay with a mining venture\", during which he \"sluiced inland rivers and crisscrossed the island in search of elusive gold\" as well as carrying out \"much ethnological work amongst the interior villages and native hillsmen\". Hubbard's unofficial biographer Russell Miller writes that neither the United States Geological Survey nor the Puerto Rican Department of Natural Resources have any record of any such expedition.\n\nAccording to the Church of Scientology, Hubbard was \"called to Hollywood\" to work on film scripts in the mid-1930s, although Scientology accounts differ as to exactly when this was (whether 1935, 1936 or 1937). The Church of Scientology claims he also worked on the Columbia serials \"The Mysterious Pilot\" (1937), \"The Great Adventures of Wild Bill Hickok\" (1938) and \"The Spider Returns\" (1941), though his name does not appear on the credits. Hubbard also claimed to have written \"Dive Bomber\" (1941), Cecil B. DeMille's \"The Plainsman\" (1936) and John Ford's \"Stagecoach\" (1939).\n\nScientology accounts of the expedition to Alaska describe \"Hubbard's recharting of an especially treacherous Inside Passage, and his ethnological study of indigenous Aleuts and Haidas\" and tell of how \"along the way, he not only roped a Kodiak Bear, but braved seventy-mile-an-hour winds and commensurate seas off the Aleutian Islands.\" They are divided about how far Hubbard's expedition actually traveled, whether or .\n\nThe Church disputes the official record of Hubbard's naval career. It asserts that the records are incomplete and perhaps falsified \"to conceal Hubbard's secret activities as an intelligence officer\". In 1990 the Church provided the \"Los Angeles Times\" with a document that was said to be a copy of Hubbard's official record of service. The U.S. Navy told the \"Times\" that \"its contents are not supported by Hubbard's personnel record.\" \"The New Yorker\" reported in February 2011 that the Scientology document was considered by federal archivists to be a forgery.\n\nThe Church of Scientology presents him as a \"much-decorated war hero who commanded a corvette and during hostilities was crippled and wounded\". Scientology publications say he served as a \"Commodore of Corvette squadrons\" in \"all five theaters of World War II\" and was awarded \"twenty-one medals and palms\" for his service. He was \"severely wounded and was taken crippled and blinded\" to a military hospital, where he \"worked his way back to fitness, strength and full perception in less than two years, using only what he knew and could determine about Man and his relationship to the universe\". He said that he had seen combat repeatedly, telling A. E. van Vogt that he had once sailed his ship \"right into the harbor of a Japanese occupied island in the Dutch East Indies. His attitude was that if you took your flag down the Japanese would not know one boat from another, so he tied up at the dock, went ashore and wandered around by himself for three days.\"\n\nHubbard's war service has great significance in the history and mythology of the Church of Scientology, as he is said to have cured himself through techniques that would later underpin Scientology and Dianetics. According to Moulton, Hubbard told him that he had been machine-gunned in the back near the Dutch East Indies. Hubbard asserted that his eyes had been damaged as well, either \"by the flash of a large-caliber gun\" or when he had \"a bomb go off in my face\". Scientology texts say that he returned from the war \"[b]linded with injured optic nerves, and lame with physical injuries to hip and back\" and was twice pronounced dead. Hubbard's official Navy service records indicate that \"his military performance was, at times, substandard\" and he received only four campaign medals rather than the claimed twenty-one. He was never recorded as being injured or wounded in combat and never received a Purple Heart.\n\nThe Church of Scientology says that Hubbard's key breakthrough in the development of Dianetics was made at Oak Knoll Naval Hospital in Oakland, California. According to the Church,\n\nScientology accounts do not mention Hubbard's involvement in occultism. He is instead described as \"continu[ing] to write to help support his research\" during this period into \"the development of a means to better the condition of man\". The Church of Scientology has nonetheless acknowledged Hubbard's involvement with the OTO; a 1969 statement, written by Hubbard himself, said:\n\nThe Church of Scientology says Hubbard was \"sent in\" by his fellow science fiction author Robert Heinlein, \"who was running off-book intelligence operations for naval intelligence at the time\". However, Heinlein's authorized biographer has said that he looked into the matter at the suggestion of Scientologists but found nothing to corroborate claims that Heinlein had been involved, and his biography of Heinlein makes no mention of the matter.\n\nThe Church of Scientology says Hubbard quit the Navy because it \"attempted to monopolize all his researches and force him to work on a project 'to make man more suggestible' and when he was unwilling, tried to blackmail him by ordering him back to active duty to perform this function. Having many friends he was able to instantly resign from the Navy and escape this trap.\" The Navy said in a statement in 1980: \"There is no evidence on record of an attempt to recall him to active duty.\"\n\nFollowing Hubbard's death, Bridge Publications has published several stand-alone biographical accounts of his life. Marco Frenschkowski notes that \"non-Scientologist readers immediately recognize some parts of Hubbard's life are here systematically left out: no information whatsoever is given about his private life (his marriages, divorces, children), his legal affairs and so on.\" The Church maintains an extensive website presenting the official version of Hubbard's life. It also owns a number of properties dedicated to Hubbard including the Los Angeles-based L. Ron Hubbard Life Exhibition (a presentation of Hubbard's life), the Author Services Center (a presentation of Hubbard's writings), and the L. Ron Hubbard House in Washington, D.C.\n\nIn late 2012, Bridge published a comprehensive official biography of Hubbard, titled \"The L. Ron Hubbard Series: A Biographical Encyclopedia\", written primarily by Dan Sherman, the official Hubbard biographer at the time. This most recent official Church of Scientology biography of Hubbard is a 17 volume series, with each volume focusing on a different aspect of Hubbard's life, including his music, photography, geographic exploration, humanitarian work, and nautical career. It is advertised as a \"Biographic Encyclopedia\" and is primarily authored by the official biographer, Dan Sherman.\n\nTo date, there has not been a single-volume comprehensive official biography published\n\nAccording to the Church of Scientology, Hubbard produced some 65 million words on Dianetics and Scientology, contained in about 500,000 pages of written material, 3,000 recorded lectures and 100 films. His works of fiction included some 500 novels and short stories. Hubbard \"published nearly 600 books, stories, and articles during his lifetime.\" He sold over 23 million copies of fiction and 27 million copies of nonfiction.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "590565", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=590565", "title": "Later life of Isaac Newton", "text": "Later life of Isaac Newton\n\nDuring his residence in London, Isaac Newton had made the acquaintance of John Locke. Locke had taken a very great interest in the new theories of the \"Principia\". He was one of a number of Newton's friends who began to be uneasy and dissatisfied at seeing the most eminent scientific man of his age left to depend upon the meagre remuneration of a college fellowship and a professorship.\n\nDuring the period 1692–1693 Newton is known to have suffered a breakdown of nervous functioning, or a supposed \"depression\" (Spivak & Epstein) lasting for 18 months, as reported by Huygens. He suffered insomnia and poor digestion, in his letters to friends showing signs of irrationality.\n\nDuring exhumation the hair from Newton's dead body was found to contain high levels of mercury, remains of desiccated hair were later found to contain four times the lead, arsenic and antimony and fifteen times mercury than in normal range samples. Two hairs contained mercury and separately lead at levels indicating chronic poisoning (Spargo & Pounds 1979). Symptoms of mercury poisoning exhibited by Newton were apparently tremor, severe insomnia, delusions of persecution or paranoid ideas, problems with memory, mental confusion, and withdrawal or decline from personal friendships, significant in the period of time, the deterioration of his relations with his \"protégé\" Nicholas Fatio de Duillier.\n\nNewton documented the first performed alchemy experiment during 1678, having first obtained furnaces and chemicals in 1669. Experiments with metal included analysis of taste of which there are 108 documented, including mercury: documented also by the scientist were similar experiments with arsenic, gold and lead.\n\nNewton recorded in his notebook of experimenting with chemicals during June 1693. The limited evidence for symptomatic mental illness of Newton during this period stem from \"correspondences\" (c.f. The Royal Society) revealing \"melancholia\", desire for withdrawal from relations including his good friends, insomnia, apathy, loss of appetite, \"delusion of persecution\", possibly failures in memory (\"amnesia\"), and bipolar. In a letter written to Samuel Pepys, Newton stated he was\n\nOn the 30th of that month Newton reported he had been \"seized by a distemper\" \nFor the last half of Newton's adult life, 30 years, he was warden of the Royal Mint as well as Master of the Mint.\n\nNewton got his appointment because of his renown as a scientist and because he supported the winning side in the Glorious Revolution.\n\nAt some time Locke nearly succeeded in procuring Newton an appointment as provost of King's College, Cambridge, but the college had offered a successful resistance on the grounds that the appointment would be illegal; its statutes required that the provost should be in priest's orders. Charles Montagu, afterwards Earl of Halifax, was a fellow of Trinity and an intimate friend of Newton, and it was on his influence that Newton relied for promotion to some honourable and lucrative post. However, his hopes were spoiled by long delay. In one of his letters to Locke at the beginning of 1692, when Montagu, Lord Monmouth and Locke were exerting themselves to obtain some appointment for Newton, Newton wrote that he was \"fully convinced that Montagu, upon an old grudge which he thought had been worn out, was false to him.\"\n\nNewton was now 55 years old, and whilst those of his own standing at the university had been appointed to high posts in church or state, he still remained without any mark of national gratitude. Montagu, after being appointed Chancellor of the Exchequer in 1694 finally put this right; he had previously consulted Newton upon the subject of the recoinage, and took the opportunity to appoint Newton to the post of warden of the Royal Mint in 1696. In a letter to Newton announcing the news, Montagu writes: \"I am very glad that at last I can give you a good proof of my friendship, and the esteem the king has of your merits. Mr Overton, the warden of the mint, is made one of the Commissioners of Customs, and the king has promised me to make Mr Newton warden of the mint. The office is the most proper for you. 'Tis the chief office in the mint: 'tis worth five or six hundred pounds per annum, and has not too much business to require more attendance than you can spare.\"\n\nThe letter must have convinced Newton of the sincerity of Montagu's good intentions towards him; we find them living as friends on the most intimate terms until Halifax's death in 1715.\n\nAlthough the post was intended to be a sinecure, Newton took it seriously. By the time of his appointment the currency had been seriously weakened by an increase in clipping and counterfeiting during the Nine Years' War to the extent that it had been decided to recall and replace all hammered silver coinage in circulation. The exercise came close to disaster due to fraud and mismanagement, but was salvaged by Newton's personal intervention. Newton's chemical and mathematical knowledge proved of great use in carrying out this Great Recoinage of 1696, a process that was completed in about two years. Newton was subsequently given the post of Master of the Mint in 1699, a post worth between £1,200 and £1,500 per annum.\n\nDespite counterfeiting being considered high treason, punishable by hanging, drawing and quartering, convicting even the most flagrant criminals could be extremely difficult. Undaunted, Newton conducted more than 100 cross-examinations of witnesses, informers, and suspects between June 1698 and Christmas 1699. He himself gathered much of the evidence he needed to successfully prosecute 28 coiners.\n\nOne of Newton's cases as the King's attorney was against William Chaloner. Chaloner's schemes included setting up phony conspiracies of Catholics and then turning in the hapless conspirators whom he had entrapped. Chaloner made himself rich enough to posture as a gentleman. Petitioning Parliament, Chaloner accused the Mint of providing tools to counterfeiters (a charge also made by others). He proposed that he be allowed to inspect the Mint's processes in order to improve them. He petitioned Parliament to adopt his plans for a coinage that could not be counterfeited, while at the same time striking false coins. Newton put Chaloner on trial for counterfeiting and had him sent to Newgate Prison in September 1697. But Chaloner had friends in high places, who helped him secure an acquittal and his release. Newton put him on trial a second time with conclusive evidence. Chaloner was convicted of high treason and hanged, drawn and quartered on 23 March 1699 at Tyburn gallows.\n\nFollowing the 1707 union between the Kingdom of England and the Kingdom of Scotland, Newton used his experience from the English recoinage to direct the 1707-1710 Scottish recoinage, resulting in a common currency for the new Kingdom of Great Britain.\n\nNewton also drew up a very extensive table of assays of foreign coins.\n\nAs a result of a report written by Newton on 21 September 1717 to the Lords Commissioners of His Majesty's Treasury the bimetallic relationship between gold coins and silver coins was changed by\nRoyal proclamation on 22 December 1717, forbidding the exchange of gold guineas for more than 21 silver shillings. Due to differing valuations in other European countries this inadvertently resulted in a silver shortage as silver coins were used to pay for imports, while exports were paid for in gold, effectively moving Britain from the silver standard to its first gold standard, rather than the bimetallic standard implied by the proclamation.\n\nDue to his income from the Mint Newton became very wealthy, although he lost a substantial sum in the collapse of the South Sea Bubble. Newton's niece Catherine Conduitt reported that he \"lost twenty thousand pounds. Of this, however, he never much liked to hear…\" This was a fortune at the time (equivalent to about £ in present-day terms), but it is not clear whether it was a monetary loss or an opportunity cost loss.\n\nNewton continued in his position at the Royal Mint until his death in 1727.\n\nUp to the time of the publication of the \"Principia\" in 1687 the method of fluxions which had been invented by Newton, and had been of great assistance to him in his mathematical investigations, was still, except to Newton and his friends, a secret. One of the most important rules of the method forms the second lemma of the second book of the \"Principia\". Though this new and powerful method was of great help to Newton in his work, he did not exhibit it in the results. He was aware that the well known geometrical methods of the ancients would make his new creations seem less strange and uncouth to those not familiar with the new method. The Principia gives no information on the subject of the notation adopted in the new calculus, and it was not until 1693 that it was communicated to the scientific world in the second volume of John Wallis's works.\n\nNewton's admirers in the Netherlands informed Wallis that Newton's method of fluxions passed there under the name of Gottfried Leibniz's \"Calculus Differentials\". It was therefore thought necessary that an early opportunity should be taken of asserting Newton's claim to be the inventor of the method of fluxions, and this was why this method first appeared in Wallis's works. A further account was given in the first edition of Newton's \"Optics\" (1704).\n\nTo this work were added two treatises, entitled \"Accedunt tractatus duo ejusdem authoris de speciebus & magnitudine figurarum curvilinearum\", the one bearing the title \"Introductio ad Quadratura Curvarum\", and the other \"Enumeratio linearum tertii ordinis\". The first contains an explanation of the doctrine of fluxions, and of its application to the quadrature of curves; the second, a classification of 72 curves of the third order, with an account of their properties.\n\nThe reason for publishing these two tracts in his \"Optics\", from the subsequent editions of which they were omitted, is thus stated in the advertisement: \"In a letter written to Leibniz in the year 1679, and published by Dr Wallis, I mentioned a method by which I had found some general theorems about squaring curvilinear figures on comparing them with the conic sections, or other the simplest figures with which they might be compared. And some years ago I lent out a manuscript containing such theorems; and having since met with some things copied out of it, I have on this occasion made it public, prefixing to it an introduction, and joining a Scholium concerning that method. And I have joined with it another small tract concerning the curvilinear figures of the second kind, which was also written many years ago, and made known to some friends, who have solicited the, making it public.\"\n\nIn 1707 William Whiston published the algebra lectures which Newton had delivered at Cambridge, under the title of \"Arithmetica Universalis, sive de Compositione et Resolutione Arithmetica Liber\". We are not accurately informed how Whiston obtained possession of this work, but it is stated by one of the editors of the English edition \"that Mr Whiston, thinking it a pity that so noble and useful a work should be doomed to a college confinement, obtained leave to make it public.\" It was soon afterwards translated into English by Raphson; and a second edition of it, with improvements by the author, was published at London in 1712, by Dr Machin, secretary to the Royal Society. With the view of stimulating mathematicians to write annotations on this admirable work, 's Gravesande published a tract, entitled \"Specimen Commentarii in Arithmetican Universalem\"; and Maclaurin's \"Algebra\" seems to have been drawn up in consequence of this appeal.\n\nNewton's solution of the celebrated problems proposed by Johann Bernoulli and Leibniz deserves mention among his mathematical works. In June 1696 Bernoulli addressed a letter to the mathematicians of Europe challenging them to solve two problems:\nThis challenge was first made in the \"Ada Lipsiensia\" for June 1696.\n\nSix months were allowed by Bernoulli for the solution of the problem, and in the event of none being sent to him he promised to publish his own. The six months elapsed without any solution being produced; but he received a letter from Leibniz, stating that he had \"cut the knot of the most beautiful of these problems\", and requesting that the period for their solution should be extended to Christmas next; that the French and Italian mathematicians might have no reason to complain of the shortness of the period. Bernoulli adopted the suggestion, and publicly announced the postponement for the information of those who might not see the \"Ada Lipsiensia\".\n\nOn 29 January 1697 Newton returned at 4pm from working at the Royal Mint and found in his post the problems that Bernoulli had sent to him directly; two copies of the printed paper containing the problems. Newton stayed up to 4am before arriving at the solutions; on the following day he sent a solution of them to Montague, then president of the Royal Society for anonymous publication. He announced that the curve required in the first problem must be a cycloid, and he gave a method of determining it. He also solved the second problem, and in so doing showed that by the same method other curves might be found which cut off three or more segments having similar properties. Solutions were also obtained from Leibniz and the Marquis de l'Hôpital; and, although Newton's solution was anonymous, he was recognized by Bernoulli as its author; \"tanquam ex ungue leonem\" (we recognize the lion by his claw).\n\nIn 1699 Newton's position as a mathematician and natural philosopher was recognized by the French Academy of Sciences. In that year the Academy was remodelled, and eight foreign associates were created. Leibniz, Domenico Guglielmini (1655—1710), Hartsoeker, and E. W. Tschirnhaus were appointed on 4 February, James Bernoulli and John Bernoulli on 14 February, and Newton and Ole Rømer on 21 February.\n\nWhile Newton held the office of warden of the mint, he retained his chair of mathematics at Cambridge and discharged the duties of the post, but shortly after he was promoted to be master of the mint he appointed Whiston his deputy with \"the full profits of the place.\" Whiston began his astronomical lectures as Newton's deputy in January 1701. On 10 December 1701 Newton resigned his professorship, thereby at the same time resigning his fellowship at Trinity, which he had held with the Lucasian professorship since 1675 by virtue of the royal mandate. Whiston's claims to succeed Newton in the Lucasian chair were successfully supported by Newton himself.\n\nOn 11 November 1701 Newton was again elected one of the representatives of the University of parliament, but he retained his seat only until the dissolution in the following July. Newton does not seem to have been a candidate at this election, but at the next dissolution in 1705 he stood for the university. He was warmly supported by the residents, but being a Whig, he was opposed by the non-residents, and beaten by a large majority.\n\nIn the autumn of 1703 Lord Somers retired from the presidency of the Royal Society, and on 30 November 1703 Newton was elected to succeed him. Newton was annually re-elected to this honourable post for the remainder of his life. He held the office for 25 years, the longest term of office for any Royal Society president since except Sir Joseph Banks (at the time of writing, 2002). As president Newton was brought into close association with Prince George of Denmark, the queen's husband, who had been elected a fellow of the Royal Society. The prince had offered, on Newton's recommendation, to cover the expense of printing Flamsteed's \"Observations\"—especially his catalogue of the stars. It was natural that the queen should form a high opinion of one whose merits had made such a deep impression on her husband. In April 1705, when the queen, the prince and the court were staying at the royal residence at Newmarket, they paid a visit to Cambridge, where they were guests of Richard Bentley, Master of Trinity College. Her Majesty went in state to the Regent House, where a congregation of the Senate was held, and a number of honorary degrees conferred. Afterwards, the queen held a court at Trinity Lodge, where (16 April 1705) she conferred the order of knighthood upon Sir Isaac Newton.\n\nAs soon as the first edition of the \"Principia\" was published Newton began to prepare for a second. He was anxious to improve the work by additions to the theory of the motion of the moon and the planets. Dr Edleston, in his preface to Newton's correspondence with Cotes, justly remarks: \"If Flamsteed the Astronomer-Royal had cordially co-operated with him in the humble capacity of an observer in the way that Newton pointed out and requested Of him... the lunar theory would, if its creator did not overrate his own powers, have been completely investigated, so far as he could do it, in the first few months of 1695, and a second edition of the \"Principia\" would probably have followed the execution of the task at no long interval.\"\n\nNewton, however, could not get the information he wanted from Flamsteed, and after the spring of 1696 his time was occupied by his duties at the mint. Rumours, however, of his work, and of a new edition, were heard from time to time. In February 1700 Leibniz writes of Newton, \"J'ai appris aussi (je ne sais où) qu'il donnera encore quelque chose sur le mouvement de la Lune: et on m'a dit aussi qu'il y aura une nouvelle édition de ses principes de la nature.\" (I have learnt - I forget from where - that he will give further details on the movements of the Moon: and I've also been told that there will be a new edition of his \"Principia\").\n\nDr Bentley, the master of Trinity College, had for a long time urged Newton to give his consent to the republication of the \"Principia\". In 1708 Newton's consent was obtained, but it was not till the spring of 1709 that he was prevailed upon to entrust the superintendence of it to a young mathematician of great promise, Roger Cotes, fellow of Trinity College, who had been recently appointed the first Plumian Professor of Astronomy and Experimental Philosophy. On 21 May 1709, after speaking to Newton, Bentley announced this arrangement to Cotes: \"Sir Isaac Newton,\" he said, \"will be glad to see you in June, and then put into your hands one part of his book corrected for the press.\" About the middle of July Cotes went to London, no doubt expecting to bring down with him to Cambridge the corrected portion of the \"Principia\". Although Cotes was impatient to begin his work, it was nearly the end of September before the corrected copy was given to him.\n\nDuring the printing of this edition a correspondence went on continuously between Newton and Cotes. On 31 March 1713, when the edition was nearly ready for publication, Newton wrote to Cotes: \"I hear that Mr Bernoulli has sent a paper of 40 pages to be published in the \"Ada Leipsica\" relating to what I have written upon the curve lines described by projectiles in resisting media. And therein he partly makes observations upon what I have written & partly improves it. To prevent being blamed by him or others for any disingenuity in not acknowledging my oversights or slips in the first edition, I believe it will not be amiss to print next after the old \"Praefatio ad Lectorem\", the following account of this new Edition.\n\"In hac secunda Principiorum Editione, multa sparsim emendantur & nonnulla adjiciuntur. In Libri primi Sect. ii Inventio viriuni quibus corpora in Orbibus datis revolvi possint, facilior redditur et amplior. In Libri secundi Sect. vii. Theoria resistentiac fluidorum accuratius investigatur & novis experimentis confirmatur. In Libro tertio Theoria Lunae & Praecessio Aequinoctiorum ex Principiis suis plenius deducuntur, et Theoria Cometarum pluribus et accuratius computatis Orbium exemplis confirmatur.\n\"28 Mar 1713. I. N.\n\"If you write any further preface, I must not see it, for I find that I shall be examined about it. The cuts for ye Comet of 1680 & 1681 are printed off and will be sent to Dr Bently this week by the Carrier.\"\n\nNewton's desire to avoid writing the preface seems to have come from a knowledge that Cotes was considering alluding to the dispute about the invention of fluxions. At last, about midsummer 1713, was published the long and impatiently expected second edition of the \"Principia\", and; on 27 July, Newton waited on Queen Anne, to present her with a copy of the new edition.\n\nIn 1714 the question of finding the longitude at sea, which had been looked upon as an important one for several years, was brought into prominence by a petition presented to the House of Commons by a number of captains of Her Majesty's ships and merchant ships and of London merchants. The petition was referred to a committee of the House, who called witnesses. Newton appeared before them and gave evidence. He stated that for determining the longitude at sea there had been several projects, true in theory but difficult to execute. He mentioned four:\n\n\nNewton criticized all the methods, pointing out their weak points, and it is due mainly to his evidence that the Committee brought in the report which was accepted by the House, and shortly afterwards was converted into a Bill, passed both Houses, and received the royal assent. The report ran \"that it is the opinion of this committee that a reward be settled by Parliament upon such person or persons as shall discover a more certain and practicable method of ascertaining the longitude than any yet in practice; and the said reward be proportioned to the degree of exactness to which the said method shall reach.\" Newton was in charge of the Board of Longitude, and it never gave a prize, but it did give some advance funds to the mathematician Leonhard Euler and some others for work on accurate lunar tables, and these did more or less solve the longitude problem. Some argue that John Harrison, a developer of clocks, should have received the main prize, but in defense of Newton's decision not to award it, Harrison's work had no effect on maritime navigation. He made a total of four clocks, and at most one of these ever went to sea.\n\nNewton was a very popular visitor at the Court of George I. The Princess of Wales, Caroline of Ansbach, wife of George II, took every opportunity of conversing with him. Having one day been told by Sir Isaac that he had composed a new system of chronology while he was still resident at Cambridge, she requested him to give her a copy. He accordingly drew up an abstract of the system from his papers, and sent it to the Princess for her own private use; but he afterwards allowed a copy to be made for the Abbé Conti on the express understanding that it should not be communicated to any other person. The abbé, however, lent his copy to M Fréret, an antiquary at Paris, who translated it, and endeavoured to refute it. The translation was printed under the title \"Abrege de chronologie de M le Chevallier Newton, fait par lui-même et traduit sur le manuscrit anglais\".\n\nUpon receiving a copy of this work, Newton printed, in the \"Philosophical Transactions\" for 1725, a paper entitled \"Remarks on the observations made on a Chronological Index of Sir Isaac Newton, translated into French by the observator, and published at Paris.\" Newton charged the Abbé with a breach of promise, and answered the objections which Fréret had urged against his system. Father Étienne Souciet entered the field in defence of Fréret; and in consequence of this controversy Newton was induced to prepare his larger work, which was published in 1728, after his death, and entitled \"The Chronology of Ancient Kingdoms Amended\".\n\nFrom an early period in life Newton paid great attention to theological studies, beginning his studies before 1690. That Newton was even then a powerful thinker was proved by his ability to attack the most difficult mathematical problems with success. For example, in 1716 Leibniz, in a letter to the Abbe Conti, proposed a problem for solution \"for the purpose of feeling the pulse of the English analysts\". The problem was to find the orthogonal trajectories of a series of curves represented by a single equation. Newton received the problem at about 17:00 as he was returning from the mint, and though he was fatigued from work, he solved it later the same evening.\n\nOne of the most remarkable of Newton's theological works is his \"Historical Account of Two Notable Corruptions of the Scriptures\", included in a letter to John Locke in November 1690. Sir Isaac was anxious for its publication but because his argument deprived the Trinitarians of two passages in favour of the Trinity, he became alarmed at the possible consequences. He therefore asked Locke, who was on the way to the continent, to have it translated into French and have it published there. Locke copied the manuscript and sent it to Jean Leclerc on 11 April 1691. On 20 January 1692 Leclerc announced his intention of publishing it in Latin. Upon hearing this Newton responded \"to stop the translation and publication as soon as he could.. to suppress it\". This was done, but Leclerc sent the manuscript to the library of the Remonstrants, and it was later published in London in 1754 under the title \"Two Letters from Isaac Newton to M le Clerc\". This edition had many errors. Dr Horsley therefore published a genuine one, which is in the form of a single letter to a friend, and was taken from a manuscript in Sir Isaac's own hand.\n\nSir Isaac Newton also wrote \"Observation on the Prophecies of Daniel and the Apocalypse of St. John\" which was published in London in 1733. Another work \"Lexicon Propheticum\" published in 1737 was a dissertation on the sacred cubit of the Jews. He wrote four letters to Bentley containing arguments for existence of a deity which were published by Cumberland, a nephew of Bentley, in 1756. Newton also wrote a \"Church History\" and a \"History of Creation, Paradoxical Questions regarding Athanasius\".\n\nNewton devoted much of his time to the study of chemistry, a great number of his experiments still remain in manuscript. His \"Tabula Quantilatum et Graduum Caloris\" contains a comparative scale of temperature from that of melting ice to that of a small kitchen fire. He wrote another chemical paper \"De Natura Acidorum\". Sir Isaac spent much time in the study of the alchemists including Jacob Boehme. In an earlier part of his life, Newton and a relation Dr Newton of Grantham had put up furnaces and had wrought for several months in quest of the philosophers tincture. Sir Isaac also studied the manuscripts of Flamsteed's \"Explication of Hieroglyphic Figures\" and William Yworth's \"Processus Mysterii Magnii Magni Philosophicus\". Scientists have discovered that before Isaac died he burned important papers in his fireplace and they think it might have been an important discovery he made while doing alchemy.\n\nIn the last few years of Newton's life he was troubled by urinary incontinence due to a gallstone likely developed due to lack of sleep and poor nutritional habits. In January 1725 he was seized with violent cough and inflammation of the lungs which induced him to move to Kensington. In the next month he had a case of gout and then had an improvement of health. His duties from the mint were terminated and thus he seldom left home. On 28 February 1727 he went to London to preside at a meeting of the Royal Society but his health condition forced him to return to Kensington on 4 March when it was determined he had a gallstone. He endured great suffering. On 18 March he became delirious around 6pm and stayed in that state until Monday 20 March 1727 when he died between one and two in the morning. His body was taken to London and on Tuesday, 28 March it lay in state in the Jerusalem Chamber in Westminster Abbey, and then was moved to his burial location in the Abbey. \"(Note: the date of Newton's death is 20 March 1726/27 in the \"Old Style\" Julian calendar and 31 March 1727 in the \"New Style\" Gregorian calendar).\" Voltaire was present at his funeral and praised the British for honoring a scientist of heretical religious beliefs with burial there.\n\nHis considerable liquid estate was divided equally between his eight half-nieces and half-nephews — three Pilkingtons, three Smiths and two Bartons (including Catherine Barton Conduitt). Woolsthorpe Manor passed to his heir-in-law, a John Newton (\"God knows a poor representative of so great a man\"), who, after six years of \"cock[fight]ing, horse racing, drinking and folly\" was forced to mortgage and then sell the manor before dying in a drunken accident.\n\nTowards the end of his life, Newton took up residence at Cranbury Park, near Winchester with his niece and her husband until his death in 1727.\n\n"}
{"id": "52061405", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52061405", "title": "Laura Fair", "text": "Laura Fair\n\nLaura D. Fair (1837–1919) was an American murderer whose death sentence was overturned.\n\nLaura Fair was born in Holly Springs, Mississippi in 1837. She married her first husband, an alcohol dealer from New Orleans, in 1853 at 16 years old. He died in 1854 and she started school at the Convent of Visitation to become a teacher. Fair left school in a year to re-marry but shortly abandoned him to join her mother operating a boarding house in San Francisco. Fair met her third husband, Attorney William D. Fair after moving to Shasta, California. Three years later, the couple separated and Fair committed suicide leaving Laura to support herself, young daughter, and mother.\n\nIn September 1862, Fair opened the Tahoe House in Virginia City, Nevada on South C Street. In 1863, Fair started a relationship with married lawyer Alexander Parker Crittenden. Initially, he said he was single. Fair eventually learned the truth, and Crittenden promised her he would divorce his wife, Clara Churchill Jones.\n\nIn 1870, Clara took a transcontinental train to the East Coast and back with her two youngest children. Fair learned that Crittenden was to meet his wife in Oakland and aboard a ferry back to San Francisco. On November 3, 1870, Fair caught the same ferry and shot Crittenden in the heart.\n\nIn April 1871, Fair faced her first murder trial where she claimed that the shooting was the result of temporary insanity caused by a severely painful menstrual cycle. The prosecution painted her as a fallen woman who lured Crittenden into bed and warned the jury that they had a moral obligation. While in jail, Susan B. Anthony and Elizabeth Cady Stanton visited Fair to support her. The jury found Fair guilty of murder, and she was sentenced to hang on July 28, 1871.\n\nFair’s case was appealed with the support of suffragettes, including Emily Pitts Stevens, founder of the California Woman Suffrage Association. The conviction was overturned on the grounds of prejudice. The press, having supported the initial conviction, were decidedly upset, calling the acquittal a \"shameful miscarriage of justice.\"\n\nFair died in 1919, at the age of 82, in San Francisco. Her body was buried in an unmarked grave.\n"}
{"id": "2371662", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2371662", "title": "Leonida Bagration of Mukhrani", "text": "Leonida Bagration of Mukhrani\n\nLeonida Georgievna Romanova, Grand Duchess of Russia (Russian: Леонида Георгиевна Романова; \"née\" Princess Leonida Georgievna Bagration-Mukhraneli (Georgian: ლეონიდა გიორგის ასული ბაგრატიონი-მუხრანელი); – 23 May 2010) was the consort of Vladimir Kirillovich, Grand Duke of Russia, a pretender to the Russian throne. She was an active and outspoken advocate of the claims advanced by Vladimir and their daughter, Maria Vladimirovna, to be accepted as the legitimate Heads of the Romanov dynasty and \"de jure\" sovereigns of the Russian Empire.\n\nBorn on 6 October 1914, in Tiflis, Georgia, Russian Empire as Princess Leonida Bagration of Mukhrani, she was a daughter of Prince George Bagration of Mukhrani and his Polish wife Helena Sigismundovna, \"née\" Nowina Złotnicka (1886–1979). She descended patrilineally from former Kings of Georgia. Her mother’s family belonged to the untitled Polish aristocracy, although one of Leonida's two lines of descent from Georgia's penultimate king Erekle II (Heraclius II) is through her mother, a descendant of the king's daughter, Princess Anastasia, who married an Eristavi prince. The other ancestral line derives through the marriage of another of the king's daughters, Princess Tamara, to Ioane Bagrationi, 18th Prince of Mukhrani.\n\nThe Bagration family's genealogy traces back at least to the medieval era in its male line and hundreds of years further back as rulers in the female line. Leonida's grandfather, Prince Alexander Bagration of Mukhrani, was born in 1853 in Georgia's historical capital Tbilisi, then part of the Russian Empire, and was killed by Bolsheviks at Pyatigorsk in 1918 during the Russian revolution. Fearing for their lives, the family took refuge in Constantinople, then spent eight months in Germany before returning to Tbilisi, now capital of the Georgian Soviet Socialist Republic, to re-claim a portion of property which, as \"émigrés\" they risked losing to total confiscation. Although the family made repairs to their home and Leonida would recall her grandfather's insistence that they continue to dine formally on silver plate to retain their sense of propriety, they were eventually deprived of all but two rooms of their old palace and subjected to harassment. Thanks to the intervention of Maxim Gorky, who had enjoyed the patronage of the Bagrations, in 1931 they once again fled the Soviet Union, going into exile in Spain. The family moved to France, where Leonida's grandmother and relations had already settled.\n\nIn France, Princess Leonida met Sumner Moore Kirby (1895–1945), a wealthy \"Pennsylvanian Protestant\". They were married in Nice, France, on 6 November 1934. Sumner Moore Kirby had been born in Wilkes Barre, Pennsylvania, the younger of two sons of Fred Morgan Kirby, a millionaire and business partner of one of the F. W. Woolworth Company heirs (Charles Sumner Woolworth) and his wife Jessie Amelie Owen. Leonida was his third wife, he having been married from 1925 to 1931 to Doris Landy Wayland, with whom he had a daughter, Gloria Price Kirby (born 1928). Kirby's second marriage, to Valentine Wagner, lasted from 20 January 1932 to 19 July 1934. Valentine Wagner's mother was born Princess Elisabeth Bagration, a member of the same family as Princess Leonida. Her father was Conrad Wagner. Kirby had no children of this marriage which, like his first and third marriages, was contracted civilly in Nice and dissolved there. Leonida and Sumner Kirby had one daughter, Helen Louise Kirby, born in Geneva, Switzerland, on 26 January 1935. Their marriage was short-lived, they divorced after three years on 18 November 1937. Kirby died in a hospital at Leau, near the Buchenwald Concentration Camp to which he had been deported from France after being arrested along with other U.S. and British civilians by the Vichy regime in 1944.\n\nAs war intensified, Leonida and her daughter relocated to officially neutral Spain. In 1944, Leonida's brother, Prince Irakli, also moved to Spain.\n\nAccording to her published memoirs, Leonida first met Vladimir Kirillovich at a restaurant in France during World War II. But they did not see each other again for a few years, when both were making extended visits to Sanlúcar de Barrameda, Spain, where their hosts happened to be neighbors. Vladimir was staying with his aunt, the Infanta Beatrice de Orleans, first cousin of the murdered Tsarina Alexandra.\n\nOn 13 August 1948 Princess Leonida wed for the second time, marrying Vladimir Kirillovich Romanov, who used the pre-revolutionary Russian title Grand Duke, the style \"Imperial Highness\" and claimed to be, from 1938 to his death, Head of the Russian Imperial House by virtue of being hereditary heir by primogeniture to the throne of the Romanovs according to the Fundamental Laws of the Russian Empire, as codified in 1906 and in force until overturned by the Bolshevik Revolution of 1917.\n\nIn 1783, the Treaty of Georgievsk was signed through which the Kingdom of Georgia, while retaining its autonomy and its ancient monarchy was placed under the protection of the Russian Empire. In 1801 after the death of George XII, the last King of Georgia, Tsar Alexander I of Russia in violation of the treaty, annexed the kingdom of Georgia and the Bagration dynasty lost its throne. The Bagrations became a leading family of the Russian nobility, serving in the Tsar's army and at court in Saint Petersburg. The former ruling branch became extinct in the late 19th century , when it passed its succession rights to the branch to which Grand Duchess Leonida belonged, but this too is disputed. Joseph Stalin's mother had been a laundress in the house of the Bagrations.\n\nAs his consort she used the title Grand Duchess Leonida Georgievna. By him, she had another daughter, Maria Vladimirovna, who claims to have succeeded her father upon his death in 1992.\n\nIn 1946, Leonida's brother, Prince Irakly, married King Alfonso XIII's niece, Princess Doña María de las Mercedes de Baviera y Borbon (1911–1953), obtaining Vladimir's recommendation that the Spanish pretender, Don Juan, Count of Barcelona, accept the marriage as dynastic, which he did not. The Count of Barcelona, then Head of the Royal House of Spain, considered the issue of this marriage to be disqualified from the Spanish succession. The only son of this marriage was sponsored at his baptism by the Count of Barcelona but the latter's refusal to recognize his god-son as a Spanish dynast led to the Bagrations' alienation from the Spanish Royal Family according to Guy Stair Sainty. In 1948 Vladimir, relying on his own earlier advice on the Bagrations' historically royal status, chose to wed Leonida \"dynastically\" in Lausanne, Switzerland.\n\nThe Grand Duke's marriage to Leonida Bagration remained controversial; some considered it to be morganatic. Although the princess descended from the Bagrationi dynasty which had ruled as kings of Georgia since the early Middle Ages, it had been deposed and reduced to the status of Russian nobility for more than a century prior to the Russian Revolution in 1917. Leonida belonged to the senior surviving branch of that family , but the last Georgian king from whom she descended in the male line was Constantine II who died in 1505, although other branches of the family continued to reign in the Caucasus as late as 1810. Besides, according to the Almanach de Gotha, as per the decision of Emperor Nicholas II made in 1911, the Princess Tatiana Constantinovna of Russia had morganatically wed Prince Konstantin Alexandrovich Bagration-Mukhransky, a member of the same branch of the House of Bagration into which Princess Leonida would later be born. Because the Russian Empire did not accord royal rank to the Bagrations at the time of the Russian Revolution, most Romanov dynasts in exile maintained that Leonida's daughter, Maria Vladimirovna, could not succeed to her father's claim to the Russian throne.\n\nLeonida accompanied her husband when he made his only visit to Russia in November 1991, following the implosion of the Soviet Union. She was also at Vladimir's side the following year when he collapsed and died following delivery of a speech in Florida.\n\nShe visited her own ancestral land with her nephew Prince George Bagration of Mukhrani in 1995 when he first visited Georgia as a royal pretender to that country's abolished monarchy. But she did not attend the much-publicized 2009 wedding of her grand-nephew, Prince David Bagration of Mukhrani to Princess Ana Bagration-Gruzinsky, the heiress of King George XII of Georgia, celebrated at the restored Holy Trinity Cathedral of Tbilisi. Nor did she re-locate her home from western Europe to Russia, although she visited the country repeatedly following her husband's funeral and burial in Saint Petersburg.\n\nWealth inherited by her elder, unmarried daughter Helen Kirby (styled by Vladimir's declaration as \"Countess Dvinskaya\"), helped Leonida, her second husband and younger daughter maintain homes in the north of France and in Madrid. There, both Maria Vladimirovna, who remains active as the claimant to the throne of the Romanovs in exile, and Maria's only son, Grand Duke George Mikhailovich (born in 1981, his father is Maria's ex-husband and distant cousin, Prince Franz Wilhelm of Prussia), were reared.\n\nLeonida Georgievna died on 23 May 2010, after her health had rapidly deteriorated. She requested to be buried next to her husband Vladimir Kirillovich in the Grand Ducal Mausoleum, Saint Petersburg. She was the last member of the Romanov family born on the territory of the Russian Empire during the monarchy.\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "16644587", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16644587", "title": "Nansen G. Saleri", "text": "Nansen G. Saleri\n\nNansen G. Saleri (born 1947) is president and CEO of Quantum Reservoir Impact. He specializes in reservoir management and upstream technologies. As former head of Reservoir Management in Saudi Aramco, Saleri was principal driver behind Saudi Aramco’s technological ascendancy in its upstream capabilities, specifically in the area of modern reservoir management, smart technologies, and maximum reservoir contact (MRC)/next-generation oil wells.\n\nNansen G. Saleri was born in Turkey. He has a twin brother, Washington, D.C. psychiatrist Alen Salerian.\n\nSaleri attended Robert Academy in Turkey from 1961 to 1966. Saleri holds a M.Sc. and a Ph.D. in chemical engineering from the University of Virginia and a B.Sc. from Boğaziçi University (then called Robert College), also in chemical engineering.\n\nSaleri worked for Chevron (1974–1992) and served as Manager of Reservoir Engineering in Houston, Texas. He is author and principal instructor for Chevron’s Reservoir Management training (1998–2002). He has been involved in world-wide projects (Gulf of Mexico, West Texas, Elk Hills, West Africa, Indonesia, and Papua New Guinea).\n\nHe joined Saudi Aramco as a Petroleum Engineer specialist in 1992. Saleri was chief architect of Saudi Aramco's successful reservoir management and water optimization programs, most notably for Ghawar, the world’s largest field. Saleri oversaw the company’s Maximum Sustained Capability (MSC) commitments at 10.8 million barrels per day and strategic planning for its oil and gas assets. He has assumed leadership role in numerous functions, including lead the Best-in-Class Strategic Imperative in Well Optimization, and established the Company’s Reservoir Management Metrics and Chaired the corporate Gas Development Strategy Task Force. He directed reservoir development plans for several major projects, including Hawiyah and Haradh Gas Plants, Shaybah AXL, Haradh Increments II and III, Qatif/Abu-Safah, Nuayyim, AFK, Khurais, among others.\n\nSaleri started his own company called Quantum Reservoir Impact (QRI). The company describes itself as a value creation agency designed to help oil companies maximize efficiencies in extracting oil from their reservoirs. They claim to do this through the use of cutting-edge technology and novel practices.\n\nSaleri has authored numerous technical papers and has been a featured speaker at nearly 100 industry and ‘think-tank’ gatherings, including the Center for Strategic and International Studies (CSIS), Washington, D.C.; MIT; Paul H. Nitze School of Advanced International Studies (SAIS), Washington, D.C.; Stanford University; Texas A&M University; Cambridge Energy Research Associates (CERA); King Fahd University of Petroleum and Minerals; U.S. Department of Energy, Washington, D.C. and American Petroleum Institute, Washington, D.C.\n\nSaleri and his brother Alen J. Salerian published papers in the non-peer reviewed \"Medical Hypotheses\" in 2005, 2007 and 2008.\n\nHe is a Member of the Advisory Board of Petroleum Engineering at the University of Houston and has been a Society of Petroleum Engineers (SPE) Distinguished Lecturer and Journal of Petroleum Technology (JPT) Distinguished Author; Co-Chairman of the SPE European Forum; Keynote Speaker at the Fifth, Sixth and Eighth International Forums on Reservoir Simulation (1994, 2001 and 2005); SPE Speakers Bureau Member (1994–1997); Member of SPE Fluid Mechanics Committee (1996 to 1998).\n\nSaleri founded the Kristin Saleri Art Foundation, named after his mother, in 2011.\n\n\nHe received the 2006 SPE John Franklin Carll Award, given annually by the Society of Petroleum Engineers (SPE), for his outstanding contributions to modern reservoir management.\n\nNansen and his wife Marina live in Texas.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "9012035", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9012035", "title": "Nola Fraser", "text": "Nola Fraser\n\nNola Therese Fraser (née Chalhoub) is an Australian small business owner, former nurse and former Liberal candidate on two occasions for the seat of Macquarie Fields. Fraser became a whistleblower at two Sydney hospitals.\n\nFraser rose to prominence when she publicly criticised the administration of Camden and Campbelltown hospitals in south-western Sydney. Her claims were backed by fellow nurses Valerie Owen, Vanessa Brag, Sheree Martin and Yvonne Quinn. On 5 November 2002, Fraser took her concerns to the health minister, and her local member of parliament, Craig Knowles. Fraser claimed that upon cataloguing the dangers patients faced at the hospitals, the minister threatened her.\n\nKnowles demanded evidence, which the nurses provided, but after three weeks there had been no word on any investigation. It was reported that New South Wales Department of Health officials had been destroying incriminating documents. Meanwhile, an internal review concluded that the nurses' claims merited investigation by the Health Care Complaints Commission.\n\nOn 25 February 2003, the HCCC recommended that no action be taken, having made \"no findings that support any loss of confidence by the community in the Macarthur Health Service.\" The findings came three weeks before 2003 state election, which Labor won.\n\nFraser and her colleagues brought public attention to this matter with the help of talkback radio host Alan Jones. As HCCC investigations continued, according to a 2003 \"Sydney Morning Herald\" report, \"those staff who were considering reporting their concerns about the failures watched helplessly as the whistleblower nurses were sidelined and victimised, their jobs placed in limbo.\" The department ordered a second investigation, led by the head of the Australian Council for Safety and Quality in Health Care. A copy of the HCCC's interim report was leaked to the \"Sun-Herald\". The HCCC had concluded that of 47 complaints, at least 17 patients \"had died after receiving unsafe, inadequate or questionable care\" at Camden and Campbelltown. But the report did not lay blame with any individual. In response, the opposition Liberal Party led by John Brogden took up the nurses' concerns, decrying what they described as a \"cover-up\".\n\nAn Independent Commission Against Corruption inquiry into Knowles' behaviour cleared the minister in September 2005.\n\nAfter Knowles resigned from Parliament in 2005, Fraser contested his seat of Macquarie Fields for the Liberal Party of Australia. Fraser achieved a swing of 12% for her party, not enough to defeat Labor's Steven Chaytor.\n\nFraser was again endorsed by the Liberals for the March 2007 election. However, Fraser was unable to improve on her by-election result and was defeated by Labor's candidate, Dr Andrew McDonald.\n\nFraser again stood for Macquarie Fields at the New South Wales state election, 2011 but this time as an independent. She gained approximately 11% of the primary votes. The Liberal candidate Sam Eskaros won 37% of the primary vote but despite a heavy swing against him the sitting ALP member Andrew McDonald retained the seat with 51.5% of the two party preferred vote.\n\n"}
{"id": "57074933", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57074933", "title": "P.S. Arjun", "text": "P.S. Arjun\n\nP.S. Arjun (born 19 November 1982) is an Indian film director and writer who works in Tamil cinema. He is directing a Tamil musical Psychological thriller film titled Amutha with Sriya Sree in the lead and Anees Shaz, Levin Simon Joseph, Ashna Sudheer and Shivakumar Raju in important characters.\n\nArjun worked with Infosys BPO, Bangalore as an HR professional and ING Vysya Insurance, Chennai as an Operation Executive before leaving to pursue his dream of becoming a movie director. His love for Tamil movies sprouted after watching movies like Roja and Gentleman. His interest on movies became serious after watching Kannathil Muthamittal.\n"}
{"id": "1865778", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1865778", "title": "Peter Friederich", "text": "Peter Friederich\n\nPeter Friederich (born 1942 in St Gallen) is a former Swiss ambassador to Luxembourg.\n\nHe was a career diplomat, working in the Swiss Foreign Ministry since 1971 and had served as ambassador to Vietnam and Cuba. He was made ambassador to Luxembourg in December 1999.\n\nIn July 2002 was arrested for assisting drug smugglers, embezzlement and fraud. During his time as ambassador, Friederich invested money on behalf of friends in the stock market. He would promise a higher than average return on the investments. After the stock market crash in 2000 he lost CHF5 million. He was arrested after CHF2.37 million was deposited into his private bank account by Antonio Florido Sosa, a Spanish citizen who is thought to be involved in drugs trade and money laundering. The money was then transferred to various bank accounts that Swiss prosecutors claim were the accounts of people involved with drugs or laundering.\n\nHis trial began on May 8, 2005 in Federal Criminal Court in Bellinzona. He was convicted and sentenced to three and a half years in prison.\n\n"}
{"id": "42859879", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42859879", "title": "Robby De Caluwé", "text": "Robby De Caluwé\n\nRobby De Caluwé (1 January 1975) is a Belgian politician for Open Vld. He is mayor of Moerbeke-Waas since 2013.\n\nDe Caluwé studied management between 1994 and 1997. He worked as a Branch Manager at SD Worx until 2011. In 2011 he started his own Human Resources company.\n\nHe started in local politics in Moerbeke and became member of the council after the elections in 2000. After his predecessor Filip Marin left the party, he was asked to pull the list for the elections in 2012. He obtained 860 preference votes and was by far the most popular politician in his city.\n\nIn 1994, De Caluwé started his political career in Young VLD Moerbeke. Very soon, he became secretary, and later chairman. During a short period, he was also a member of the national party council from Open Vld. In 2010 he became chairman of Open Vld Moerbeke.\n\n"}
{"id": "57195049", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57195049", "title": "Semih Terzi", "text": "Semih Terzi\n\nSemih Terzi (?-15 July 2016) was an officer in the Turkish Army, who was shot dead while trying to capture the headquarters of the Special Forces Command during the 2016 Turkish coup d'état attempt together with other plotters.\n\nTerzi graduated from the Turkish Army Academy in 1989. In 2009, he was promoted to the rank of a Staff Colonel of the Engineer Corps (). His promotion to the rank of a Brigadier general (\"Tuğgeneral\") by the Supreme Military Council took place in August 2014.\n\nHis last duty was commander of the 1st Special Forces Brigade and Special Forces Operations Base stationed in Silopi, Şırnak, southeastern Turkey.\n\nOn 15 July 2016, a group of military attempted a coup d'état. Within the frame of the military actions, a group of coup plotters tried to capture the commander of the Special Forces Maj. Gen. Zekai Aksakallı. He learned the coup plotters' intention, and was able to escape his followers. As he became aware of the plans of Brig. Gen. Semih Terzi to go Ankara in order to capture the headquarters of the Special Forces Command in Gölbaşı, he ordered Terzi around 00:30 hours local time by radio not to join the coup plotters. As Terzi showed signs of disobey, Aksakallı ordered the commander of the 3rd Special Forces commander Brig. Gen. Halil Soysal, who was stationed at Saladin town in Northern Iraq, to go to Silopi and to take over command there in order to neutralize the insurgent personnel by eventually interning the duty officer Col. Celal Koca.\n\nIn the meantime, Terzi was underway from Diyarbakır Air Base to Akınci Air Base in Ankara by an aircraft. From there, he and twenty officers of diverse ranks flew by helicopter to Gölbaşı. The capture of the headquarters of Special Forces Command was very important for the coup plotters because they would be able to counteract any attempt of the government to prevent the coup, to commit suicides or rescue operations by controlling all the special units. After neutralizing the guards at the main entrance, they entered the headquarters front yard around 02:30 hours. Terzi notified the duty officer of the headquarters that he takes control of the Special Forces. At that moment, Terzi was shot dead by Sgt. Maj. Ömer Halisdemir, who was instructed by Gen. Maj. Zekai Aksakallı and was loyal to him. The putschist soldiers accompanying Terzi immediately killed Halisdemir in response. Terzi's body was wrapped in a cloth, and was rushed by helicopter to GATA Gülhane Military Medical Academy Hospital, where he was pronounced dead. Halisdemir's body remained in the front yard of the headquarters. The death of Terzi prevented a change in the chain of command.\n\nThe body of Terzi was transferred to Erzincan for burial. However, the Erzincan Municipality, responsible for burial service, called him a \"traitor\", and rejected his burial in the city cemetery. His family, therefore, buried him in the back yard of their home.\n\nHe was survived by his wife Nazire Terzi. The widow was accused of \"aiding the crime of violation of the constitution,\", and was sentenced to 18 years in prison in February 2018 after having been detained 559 days in jail.\n"}
{"id": "42763468", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42763468", "title": "Shaun Kauleinamoku", "text": "Shaun Kauleinamoku\n\nShaun Kauleinamoku (born May 24, 1987) is an arena football wide receiver for the Philadelphia Soul of the Arena Football League (AFL). He played collegiately at Western Oregon University. Kauleinamoku has also been member of the Spokane Shock, San Antonio Talons, Utah Blaze, Pittsburgh Power and Shanghai Skywalkers.\n\nOn January 26, 2015, Kauleinamoku was assigned to the Philadelphia Soul. On January 26, 2016, Kauleinamoku was assigned to the Soul for the 2016 season. On August 26, 2016, the Soul beat the Arizona Rattlers in ArenaBowl XXIX by a score of 56–42 and Kauleinamoku was named ArenaBowl MVP. He earned Second Team All-Arena honors in 2017. On August 26, 2017, the Soul beat the Tampa Bay Storm in ArenaBowl XXX by a score of 44–40.\n\nKauleinamoku was drafted by the Shanghai Skywalkers in the fourth round of the 2016 CAFL Draft. He earned All-Pro South Division All-Star honors after catching 37 passes for 479 yards and 16 touchdowns. He also rushed for 71 yards and 4 touchdowns. He is listed on the Skywalkers' roster for the 2018 season.\n\n\"Stats from ArenaFan\":\n\nKauleinamoku was an assistant coach for the Western Oregon Wolves in 2013.\n\n"}
{"id": "42386610", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42386610", "title": "Stephen W. Doran", "text": "Stephen W. Doran\n\nStephen W. Doran is an American politician who was a member of the Massachusetts House of Representatives from 1981 to 1995. He later worked as a bank executive and math tutor. In 2014 he pleaded guilty to drug trafficking and is serving 3 years in prison; he is scheduled to finish his sentence in 2017. \n\nDoran was born on March 26, 1956, in Boston. He attended Lexington High School, the University of Massachusetts Amherst, and the London School of Economics.\n\nDoran began his political career as a Lexington Town Meeting Member in 1975. In 1978 he unsuccessfully challenged incumbent state representative Lincoln P. Cole. In 1980 he defeated Cole to become the representative for the 15th Middlesex District. During his freshman term, Doran was an active participant in the House budget debate.\n\nAt the beginning of his second term, Doran was a leader of a bipartisan coalition of more than fifty representatives who sought to reform the House rules. Their proposed changes included limiting sessions to the hours between 10 a.m. to 10 p.m., requiring that agendas be published for all formal sessions, that all conference reports be distributed 24 hours before floor action, and allowing television and radio journalists to broadcast formal House sessions. He also was a leading supporter of overhauling the prevailing-wage law, which required the Commonwealth and municipal governments to pay union wages on contractual jobs, such as construction or snow removal.\n\nWhile serving in the House, Doran had a parking lot concession in Cape Cod and spent most of the summer running it.\n\nIn 1989, Speaker George Keverian chose Doran to chair the House Ethics Committee. In 1990, the committee chose to take no action against Keverian after he admitted to hiring subordinates to do remodeling work on his house and accepting free rugs from a legislative vendor. The committee concluded that the conflict of interest law Keverian admitted to violating does not exist in the House ethics code and therefore took no disciplinary action against him. In 1991, the committee voted 6 to 5 to remove Kevin Fitzgerald from his position as majority whip for having accepted a $200,000 inheritance from a troubled homeless woman. Doran sided with two other Democrats and three Republicans in favor of sanctioning Fitzgerald. In 1994, the committee was on the verge of recommending the expulsion of representative John McNeil due to charges that he solicited sex from one of his former interns. However, Massachusetts Attorney General Scott Harshbarger and US Attorney John Pappalardo requested that the committee suspend its work due to fears that taking testimony from witnesses during a quasijudicial hearing could jeopardize their cases (which included extortion, bribery, money laundering, and mail fraud) against McNeil.\n\nIn 1994, Doran chose not to run for reelection and instead entered the banking industry as a vice president at Fleet Mortgage, a subsidiary of Fleet Financial Group. At Fleet, Doran oversaw the company's New England mortgage operations.\n\nIn August 2012, Doran began working as a math tutor at MATCH Public Charter Middle School in Jamaica Plain. He was later diagnosed with stage three melanoma and began chemotherapy.\n\nOn May 21, 2013, Doran received a package at the school. State Police, acting on a tip, detained Doran on the street and obtained the package from the school front desk. The package contained two heat-sealed baggies containing 480 grams of crystal meth. Authorities then obtained a warrant to search Doran's home. There they found an additional 38 grams of meth, about $10,000 in cash, and a digital scale and other items consistent with drug distribution. He was arrested on charges of trafficking methamphetamine and violating the state's law against drug in a school zone. The drugs had a street value of about $50,000\n\nOn March 31, 2014, Doran pleaded guilty to trafficking in methamphetamine and money laundering. He was sentenced to three years in prison followed by two years of probation. According to one of his defense attorneys, Doran was a \"terrible addict\" who had sought treatment and been substance-free since his arrest.\n\nDue to the similarities, Doran's case has been compared to the television show \"Breaking Bad\" and Doran has been compared to its protagonist, Walter White. Like White, Doran was a teacher who began dealing crystal meth after being diagnosed with cancer. Both men also underwent chemotherapy and are bald as a result.\n"}
{"id": "8165146", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8165146", "title": "Thai name", "text": "Thai name\n\nThai names are comparable to the Western European pattern in which the family name follows a first or given name. In this, they differ from the family-name-first pattern of the general East Asian tradition.\n\nThai names (given and family) are often long, and there are a great many of them. The diversity of family names is because they are required to be unique to a family, and they are a recent introduction. Also, a number of Thai people change their given names relatively frequently (and their family names less frequently, as it requires permission of the head of a family or, in the case of children, father and mother). This practice is virtually unknown in most other countries outside of marriage and fortune-telling traditions. Besides standard reasons of separation and divorce, many name changes are done to get rid of bad luck (which, if caused by a ghost or spirit, would confuse the malignant entity, allowing the victim to get free from them).\n\nLast names became legally required of Thai citizens in 1913. Before then, most Thais used only a first or individual name. The names generally convey positive attributes. Under Thai law, only one family can use any given surname: Thus, any two people of the same surname must be related.\n\nThai surnames are often long, particularly among Thais of Chinese descent. For example, the family of former Prime Minister Thaksin Shinawatra, who is of Chinese descent, adopted the name Shinawatra (\"does good routinely\") in 1938. According to the current law, Person Name Act, BE 2505 (1962), to create a new Thai surname, it must not be longer than ten Thai letters, excluding vowel symbols and diacritics. The same law also forbids the creation of a surname that duplicated any existing surnames, There are some duplicates dating to the time before computer databases were available to prevent this. Some creations added the name of their location (muban, tambon or amphoe) into surnames, similar to family name suffixes.\n\nAs a measure of the diversity of Thai names, in a sample of 45,665 names, 81% of family names were unique, and 35% of given names were unique: The people with shared family names are related, and the diversity of given names is conventional.\n\nEast Asian monarchs often adopted regnal names upon ascending the throne, as was done in Thailand until the present day. In addition, subjects of a monarch may be awarded both a title and a name, such as in the case of Sing (or Singh) Sinhaseni () who was awarded the title of Chao Phraya and the name of Bodindecha (.) \n\nKings Rama I and Rama II were awarded noble titles and names before they assumed regnal names, which were then changed by subsequent kings. As neither noble titles nor names are necessarily unique, it is customary to list the highest title and awarded named first, followed by former names and titles (and personal and family names in parentheses) as needed.\n\nDescendants of the nobility, both hereditary and non-hereditary positions, generally take the noble name of their ancestor for a surname. For instance, Hugo Chakrabongse is a descendant of Prince Chakrabongse Bhuvanath. Some (far removed) descendants of royalty add the preposition and nobility particle \"na\" (ณ) to geographical names to create surnames, in the same way that members of German noble families use \"von\". \n\nThus Mongkol Na Songkhla, a minister in the Surayud government, has a name indicating that he is a distant descendant of royalty or nobility in that geographical region (for instance, the surname \"Na Chiangmai\", belonging to descendants of the rulers of Chiang Mai, which was a vassal state of Siam). The name of Kasem Sanitwong Na Ayutthaya, another minister, indicates that he is related to the royal family, as it is also tradition for far-removed descendants to add \"Na Ayutthaya\" after their surnames. In this case, Sanitwong is the family name of Kasem. Sanitwong itself being a name of a royal consort of Rama V and the subsequent family name for her descendants.\n\nFormal surnames were a 20th-century innovation of Sandhurst-educated King Vajiravudh (Rama VI, r.1910 – 25).\n\nThe Council of Royal Pandits, predecessor to the Royal Institute of Thailand, was available to assist in deriving palace names, as they were called. For an example, see the background of the Vejjajiva palace name. The latter-day Royal Thai General System of Transcription would transcribe it as \"Wetchachiwa\". Formal personal names follow from traditional practice to include individual awards of palace-given names.\n\nIn polite speech, Thais address each or refer to each other by a given name, preceded by the courtesy title \"khun\", particularly with persons of higher status or public distinction. Thus, the ministers mentioned above would be addressed and referred to as \"Khun Mongkol\" and \"Khun Kasem\". \"Khun\" pronounced with an even tone should not be confused with rising-tone khun, an obsolete feudal title, or ever replaced with \"Khunying\", comparable to formal Lady in Western culture, still sometimes awarded.\n\nInformal names are awarded at birth and may continue in use to the extent one may have to check the formal registration to find a person's given formal name. Thais may address each other by nicknames (). Bestowed by relatives or playmates in early childhood, these are commonly one syllable (or worn down from two to one). These may often be nonsense words or humorous and seldom relate to the registered name except in cases where it is a diminutive, such as \"Nok\" for \"Noknoi,\" or \"bird\" from \"little bird\". All Thais have such names; they are freely used in everyday life. Some may have additional nicknames bestowed by friends or colleagues, especially during school or adolescence. Nicknames may link with a notable physical feature or behavior. In everyday life, a Thai is introduced by nickname and others may not know the person's formal name. When so introduced, one usually continues to use the nickname.\n\nThe evolution of Thai nicknames dates back to the Sukhothai era, when names were used to mark the order of children. Nicknames such as \"Ai\", \"Yee\", and \"Sam\" designated children as \"one\", \"two\", and \"three\". Later, in the Ayutthaya and Rattanakosin periods, children began to be named for physical attributes, such as \"Daeng\" (red) or \"Uan\" (fat) or for desirable items such as \"Thong\" (gold). Conversely, unflattering nicknames such as \"Mah (dog)\", \"Moo (pig)\", or \"Kob (frog)\" were employed to keep malign spirits from coveting the child. King Mongkut (Rama IV) (1804-1868) stimulated interest in naming babies in accordance with astrological principles as outlined in the ancient scripture, \"Namtaksapakorn\".\n\nDuring the time of Field Marshal Plaek Phibunsongkhram (1897-1964), gender-based naming was introduced. Names ending in \"-sak\", \"-chai\", and \"-yot\" were for male babies, \"-porn\" or \"-sri\" for females. In the 21st century, assigning nicknames still relies heavily on astrological beliefs but in keeping up with current naming fashions. Observers have noted such modern nicknames as \"Porsche\", \"Mercedes\", \"Benz\", \"Man U\", \"Big Mac\", \"Internet\", and \"Google\", among others.\n\nKing Bhumibol Adulyadej's nickname, for example, was Ong Lek (; \"Ong\" is a numerative noun for kings, princes, princesses, priests, images of Buddha, gods, angels, palaces, pagodas; \"lek\" means \"little (one)\", a common name for younger siblings). Former Prime Minister Thaksin Shinawatra's nickname is , Thai for the Miao people. By way of example preceding formal naming, Plaek Pibulsongkram's childhood name meant \"strange\". He later adopted as a surname what was originally an award for academic excellence and generally known in public life by the shortened form \"Pibun.\" Thailand's first female Prime Minister, Yingluck Shinawatra, is nicknamed \"Pu\" \"crab\" (; ).\n\nAccording to the Chicago Manual of Style, Thai names may be indexed depending upon the individual practice. Often they may be alphabetized under the given name with no comma and no inversion, but they may also be alphabetized under the surname with a comma and with an inversion.\n\n"}
{"id": "2293226", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2293226", "title": "Tom Ketchum", "text": "Tom Ketchum\n\nThomas Edward Ketchum (October 31, 1863 – April 26, 1901), known as Black Jack, was a cowboy who later turned to a life of crime. He was executed in 1901 for attempted train robbery.\n\nTom Ketchum was born in San Saba County, Texas. He left Texas in 1890, possibly after committing a crime. He worked as a cowboy in the Pecos River Valley of New Mexico, where by 1894, his older brother, Sam Ketchum, had joined him. Black Jack and a group of others were named as the robbers of an Atchison, Topeka and Santa Fe Railway train that was en route to Deming, New Mexico Territory, in 1892 with a large payroll aboard. The gang supposedly robbed the train just outside Nutt, New Mexico Territory, a water station twenty miles north of Deming. Black Jack and his gang would often visit the ranch of Herb Bassett, near Brown's Park, Colorado, who was known to have done business with several outlaws of the day, having supplied them with beef and fresh horses. Herb Bassett was the father of female outlaws Josie Bassett and Ann Bassett, who were girlfriends to several members of Butch Cassidy's Wild Bunch gang. One of Ann Bassett's boyfriends and future Wild Bunch gang member, Ben Kilpatrick, began riding with Black Jack's gang about that time. Outlaw \"Bronco Bill\" Walters, later noted for the legend of his \"hidden loot\" near Solomonville, Arizona, is also believed to have begun riding with the gang at this time.\n\nThe second major crime attributed to Tom was the murder of a neighbor, John N. \"Jap\" Powers, in Tom Green County, Texas, on December 12, 1895. However, information at the Sutton Historical Society in Texas, says that Will Carver and Sam Ketchum were the ones actually accused of killing Powers in Knickerbocker. Fearing the law, they closed their joint saloon and gambling venture in San Angelo, and hit the outlaw trail. Within six months, Mrs. Powers and her lover, J. E. Wright, were arrested for the murder, but it was too late for Carver and the Ketchums.\nBy late 1895, outlaw Harvey \"Kid Curry\" Logan and his brother Lonnie Curry were members of Black Jack's gang. However, in early 1896, a dispute concerning their share of robbery loot prompted the Currys to leave the gang.\n\nIt is alleged that Ketchum was involved with the February 1, 1896, disappearance and presumed murders of Albert Jennings Fountain and his son Henry Fountain of Las Cruces, New Mexico. In early June 1896, after working for the famed Bell Ranch in New Mexico, Tom and Sam Ketchum, and possibly others, robbed a combined store and post office at Liberty, New Mexico, northwest of present-day Tucumcari. According to contemporary accounts, the Ketchums rode into Liberty on June 12 and purchased supplies. That evening, a thunderstorm began, and they returned to the store, owned by Morris and Levi Herzstein, who invited them to take shelter.\n\nReturning the next morning to open his store, Levi Herzstein found that both the store and post office had been burglarized. After gathering a posse, Herzstein set out on the outlaws' trail. The posse, composed of just four men, took the two outlaws by surprise in the Plaza Largo arroyo, where a shootout immediately began. Seconds later both Levi Herzstein and Hermenejildo Gallegos lay dead. Seeing his comrades fall, Anastacio Borgue turned his horse and rode out of the arroyo. Placido Gurulé, the fourth member of the posse, also survived to give an account. Gurulé said he had been struck by a .30-30 bullet that knocked him off his horse. He landed on the ground with a blow that knocked the wind out of him. He lay in a semiconscious state as Black Jack Ketchum emptied his rifle into the bodies of Levi Herzstein and Hermenejildo Gallegos. Tom and Sam Ketchum were never tried for the killings at the Plaza Largo arroyo, but Morris Herzstein reportedly was present in Clayton, New Mexico Territory to witness the hanging of Black Jack Ketchum in 1901.\n\nMorris Herzstein moved to Clayton shortly after the killing in Liberty, and finally into the Texas Panhandle area. This is memorialized by the inscription on a shoe brush: \"Herzstein's Clayton, New Mexico -- Dalhart, Texas. If it's from Herzstein's it's correct.\" Morris was the father of Albert Herzstein, who became one of the founders of Big 3 Industries in Houston, and is the man who helped the museum in Clayton to become a reality years later.\n\nFollowing this event, Thomas Ketchum joined other outlaws of the Hole in the Wall Gang and continued a life of crime, focusing on train robberies, although when not robbing trains they worked for several ranches in New Mexico and Texas. Several other notable outlaws operated out of Hole In The Wall, which was a hideout for numerous outlaw gangs which operated separately. The famous Wild Bunch gang, led by Butch Cassidy and Elzy Lay, operated out of there. One Wild Bunch gang member, Kid Curry, along with his brother Lonny Curry, had previously ridden with Black Jack Ketchum and his gang. He and Ketchum did not like each other, and Ketchum avoided Curry as much as possible. Kid Curry would kill nine lawmen over the course of the next eight years.\n\nDuring this time, Tom Ketchum was once identified mistakenly as \"Black Jack\" Christian, another outlaw, and that became his nickname as well. Three of the train robberies that the gang committed were near the same location, between Folsom and Des Moines, New Mexico Territory. This was at the point where the old Fort Union wagon road crossed the Colorado and Southern Rail Road tracks near Twin Mountain.\n\nOn September 3, 1897, they committed their first robbery at Twin Mountain. Then, on July 11, 1899, the gang, without Black Jack, robbed the train again at Twin Mountain. After the robbery, Sam and several unknown gang members, in addition to Wild Bunch gang members Will Carver and William Ellsworth \"Elza\" Lay, headed for the mountains southwest of Raton, New Mexico Territory. The next day, a posse consisting of Sheriff Ed Farr of Huerfano County, Colorado, Special Agent W.H. Reno of the Colorado & Southern Railroad, and five deputies found their trail and tracked them into Turkey Creek Canyon near Cimarron, New Mexico. There, the posse engaged them in a gun battle. Sam Ketchum and two deputies were wounded seriously, and the gang escaped.\n\nSam Ketchum's wounds slowed the intended escape, and they made it only a short distance from the initial shootout. Several members of the posse cornered the Ketchum gang a few days later, still in the same area of the Territory. Deputy W. H. Love and Sheriff Ed Farr engaged the outlaws in another gun battle, resulting in both Love and Farr being killed, while the posse wounded at least two unknown members of the gang. Sam Ketchum escaped, but was found a few days later by Special Agent Reno at the home of a rancher, where he was arrested.\n\nSam Ketchum was taken to the Santa Fe Territorial Prison, where he died from his gunshot wounds. He was buried in the Odd Fellows rest Cemetery, now the Fairview Cemetery on Cerrillos Rd. in Santa Fe.\n\n\"Elzy\" or \"Elza\" (William Ellsworth) Lay was born November 25, 1868, Mt Pleasant, Ohio. Lay had come out west to Denver, and became an outlaw after mistakenly believing he had killed a man. Jailed for life after the killing of Sheriff Farr after the Folsom robbery, he was released in 1906. He returned to Alma, New Mexico Territory and lived there for two years. He stayed with Louis and Walter Jones, who in 1904 had built a large merchandise store at Alma. Elzy died aged 65 in Los Angeles, on November 10, 1934.\n\nOn August 16, 1899, Tom Ketchum, supposedly knowing nothing of the July 11 hold-up which ended in the death of his brother Sam, single-handedly attempted to rob the same train again at the same place and in the same way that he and Sam and others had robbed it just a few weeks earlier. The train conductor, Frank Harrington, saw Tom approaching the moving train. He recognized him, grabbed a shotgun, and shot Tom in the arm, knocking him off his horse. The train continued, and the next day a posse came out and found Tom beside the tracks, badly wounded. He was transported to medical facilities at Trinidad, Colorado, and his right arm had to be amputated. He was nursed back to health and then sent to Clayton, New Mexico Territory, for trial.\n\nAt the trial, Ketchum was convicted and sentenced to death. He was the only person ever hanged in Union County, New Mexico Territory (now Union County, New Mexico). He was also the only person who suffered capital punishment for the offense of \"felonious assault upon a railway train\" in New Mexico Territory (which did not become a state until 1912). Later, the law was found to be unconstitutional.\n\nKetchum was executed by hanging in Clayton. Nobody in Clayton had any experience in conducting hangings; the rope was too long, and since Ketchum had gained a significant amount of weight during his time in jail, he was decapitated when he dropped through the trap door.\n\nHis last words were reported by the \"San Francisco Chronicle\" as: \"Good-bye. Please dig my grave very deep. All right; hurry up.\"\n\nA popular postcard was made showing the body. Afterwards his head was sewn back onto the body for viewing, and he was interred at the Clayton Cemetery.\n\nWestern actor Jack Elam portrayed Ketchum in an episode of the 1954–55 syndicated television series \"Stories of the Century\", tales of the American West starring and narrated by Jim Davis.\n\nHoward Duff played Ketchum in the 1957 American Western film, \"Blackjack Ketchum, Desperado\".\n\nRhodes Reason played Ketchum in a 1959 episode of the American Western television series \"Frontier Doctor.\n\n"}
{"id": "36624281", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36624281", "title": "Victor Wulf", "text": "Victor Wulf\n\nVictor Wulf is a Canadian keyboard player and composer. He is recognized for his solo ambient music project Dilate and as a founding member of sound collage band Vampire Rodents.\n\nVictor Wulf was involved in composing music for television since 1977. In June 1989, Wulf and Vahnke founded Vampire Rodents, a project that incorporated elements of industrial rock and sound collage. The duo released three albums: \"War Music\" (1990), \"Premonition\" (1992) and \"Lullaby Land\" (1993). During this time, Wulf was primary influenced by Can, Bernard Herrmann, John Zorn and big band music.\n\nWulf became less involved in the writing process with each album and he decided to leave Vampire Rodents after the release of \"Lullaby Land\". Wulf founded his own ambient music project Dilate in 1995. After being picked up by Cleopatra Records, he released \"Cyclos\" in early 1996. \"Octagon\" was released in 1997.\n\nDilate\n\nVampire Rodents\n"}
{"id": "18091791", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18091791", "title": "W. &amp; D. Downey", "text": "W. &amp; D. Downey\n\nW. & D. Downey were Victorian studio photographers operating in London from the 1860s to the 1910s. \n\nWilliam Downey (14 July 1829 in South Shields – 7 July 1915 in Kensington), who came to be known as the Queen's Photographer, was born in King Street in South Shields, a decade before commercial photography had become a reality. William, initially, was a carpenter and boatbuilder, but in about 1855 he set up a studio in South Shields with his brother Daniel and later established branches in Blyth, Morpeth and Newcastle. Their first Royal commission was to provide photographs for Queen Victoria of the Hartley Colliery Disaster in January 1862. Daniel Downey is his brother (1831 – 15 July 1881).\n\nIn 1863 they opened a studio on Eldon Square in Newcastle. The same year William set up a studio in the Houses of Parliament and produced portraits of every parliamentarian of the day. The resulting images' location is unknown to this day.\n\nWilliam moved to 57 & 61 Ebury Street in London in 1872 and opened another studio, his brother managing the Newcastle branch. The London studio enjoyed the patronage of Queen Victoria and the Prince of Wales, taking photos at Balmoral and Frogmore during the 1860s. Its first Royal image was of the Princess of Wales at the York Agricultural Show in about 1865. The studio also produced the iconic carte-de-visite portrait of the Princess of Wales piggybacking Princess Louise. The studio received a Royal Warrant in 1879.\n\nDowney used Joseph Swan's carbon process for their best work. In the 1880s Mawson, Swan & Morgan of Newcastle, was the world's largest manufacturer of photographic dry plates, the convenience of which made photography a commercial reality. George Eastman spent some time there during the eighties and afterwards invented the Box Brownie and roll film, ending the monopoly of studios on permanent images.\n\nWilliam Downey's son, William Edward Downey (1855–1908), managed most of the royal sittings during the Edwardian era. Gladys Cooper, a child photographic model of the time, reminisces about the Downeys in her autobiography: \nWilliam senior was married to Lucy, who had been born in Speenhamland, Berkshire in 1843, and they had one son and one daughter. He joined the Photographic Society (later The Royal Photographic Society) in December 1870. The 1891 and 1901 census records show that he was living at 10 Nevern Square, Warwick Road, Earl's Court, Kensington. Downey's prized silver collection was stolen from his Earl's Court home in November 1914 – the burglary is said to have brought on his death.\n\nWilliam Downey senior was William Fowler Downey and he married Caroline Griffiths of Cheshire. They had two sons, William Edward and Robert Ingham (who died an infant). Caroline died in 1874 and William remarried Lucy Lyon in 1877. Their children were Arthur James Hope and Laura Evelyn.\n\nArthur, as A.J.H. Downey, continued the family business: his work included a portrait of King George V's children in 1910, the year of their fathers accesson. \n\nDaniel Downey married Elizabeth Smith Beloe and had three children, another Robert Ingham Downey, Elizabeth and Victoria Christine.\nDaniel died in Bethnal House, Bethnal Green on 15 July 1881.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "18106501", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18106501", "title": "Wyatt Cenac", "text": "Wyatt Cenac\n\nWyatt Cenac (; born April 19, 1976) is an American comedian, actor, producer and Emmy Award winning writer. He was a correspondent and a writer for \"The Daily Show\" from 2008 to 2012. He starred in the TBS series \"People of Earth\" and in Barry Jenkins's first feature \"Medicine for Melancholy\". He currently hosts and produces the HBO series \"Wyatt Cenac's Problem Areas\".\n\nCenac was born in New York on April 19, 1976 at St. Vincent's Hospital in Manhattan and spent his early years in the Bronx. His father Wyatt Cenac Sr. was a cab driver born in Saint Mark Parish, Grenada in 1944. He was shot and killed in his cab by a teenage passenger in Harlem when Cenac was five. Cenac moved with his mother, a New York native, and Trinidadian stepfather to Dallas, Texas in 1981. He spent his summers with his maternal grandmother in Crown Heights, Brooklyn in an apartment on President Street.\n\nWhile in elementary school, he became friends with comic book writer Brian K. Vaughan, who also introduced him to comic books. He graduated from the Jesuit College Preparatory School of Dallas and the University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill before moving to Los Angeles. As of October 2014, Cenac lives in Fort Greene, Brooklyn and previously lived in Prospect Heights during Hurricane Sandy in 2012.\n\nCenac is the nephew of the Hon. Mr. Justice Dunbar Cenac, Registry of the Eastern Caribbean Supreme Court. His father was the cousin of former deputy prime minister of Grenada Bernard Coard, who was imprisoned for 25 years following the American invasion of Grenada in October 1983. Cenac's paternal 3x-great-grandfather Cherebin Cenac was an officer from Agen, France on a French battleship during the Napoleonic Wars who settled in Soufrière, Saint Lucia. Cherebin's youngest child Francis (1830-1892) later emigrated to Grenada.\n\nHaving previously worked for three years as a writer on \"King of the Hill\", Cenac garnered public attention in The Doomed Planet comedy sketch in which he did an impression of then-senator Barack Obama, discussing possible campaign posters.\n\nIn June 2008, Cenac was hired as a correspondent and writer on \"The Daily Show with Jon Stewart\". After making several comedic appearances along with other correspondents, Cenac filed his first field report on July 21, 2008; titled \"Baruch Obama,\" the report discussed Jewish voters' opinions of Democratic Presidential nominee Barack Obama. He continued to integrate satirical Black-oriented material in his \"Daily Show\" segments, including \"Rapper or Republican\" until his final \"Daily Show\" appearance on December 13, 2012. In a July 2015 appearance on \"WTF with Marc Maron\", Cenac revealed that his departure from \"The Daily Show\" stemmed in part from a heated argument he had with Jon Stewart over a June 2011 \"Daily Show\" bit about Republican Presidential candidate Herman Cain. Despite this, Wyatt appeared on Stewart's final episode of \"Daily Show\"; both agreed that they're \"good\", a reference to the Maron podcast.\n\nIn October 2009, he worked with rapper Slim Thug on the music video \"Still a Boss\", a parody of how the recession is affecting the rap community. Cenac costarred in \"Medicine for Melancholy\", an independent drama by Barry Jenkins released in 2008 that includes issues of African American identity and gentrification in San Francisco.\n\nCenac plays the voice of Lenny and Michael Johnson in the Nickelodeon animated series \"Fanboy & Chum Chum\".\n\nCenac guest-starred on the MC Frontalot album \"Solved\". Cenac's first hour-long comedy special, \"Comedy Person,\" premiered May 14, 2011, on Comedy Central.\n\nIn October 2014, Netflix released Cenac's second comedy special, \"Wyatt Cenac: Brooklyn\". This album was nominated at the 58th Annual Grammy Awards for Best Comedy Album. In 2014, he guest-starred in an episode of the Netflix series \"BoJack Horseman\". The following year, he appeared in a filmed segment with fellow comedians Rachel Feinstein and Alex Karpovsky on \"Last Week Tonight with John Oliver\".\n\nCenac has also co-hosted four episodes of The Bugle podcast with Andy Zaltzman since 2016.\n\nCenac released his third stand up album \"Furry Dumb Fighter\" in 2016 both digitally and on vinyl. It was recorded in Madison, WI. Cenac reports that his album titled is meant to sound like \"freedom fighter.\"\n\nCenac's film roles include parts in \"Sleepwalk with Me\" and \"Hits\", as well as a lead role in 2016's \"Jacqueline Argentine\" and 2017's festival hit, \"Fits and Starts (2017 film)\", a film nominated for multiple awards, including the feature film grand jury prize at the prestigious South by Southwest film festival. Cenac released a web-series titled \"aka Wyatt Cenac\" about his life as the Viceroy for a gentrifying Brooklyn. Cenac's HBO docuseries, \"Wyatt Cenac's Problem Areas\", premiered in April 2018.\n\n"}
{"id": "28310484", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28310484", "title": "Zeng Xuelin", "text": "Zeng Xuelin\n\nZeng Xuelin (Chinese: 曾雪麟; 2 December 1929 – 11 February 2016) was a Thailand-born Chinese football manager and former player. \n\nAs a player he represented Guangzhou, Southwest Military Region, Bayi Football Team and Tianjin while internationally he played for what is now known as the Chinese PR under-23 football team. After retiring as a player he moved into coaching where he had successful reigns at Tianjin and Beijing where he won several league titles before managing the Chinese national football team. After leaving the Chinese national team he would mainly move away from management except for a brief spell when he joined Shenzhen Ping'an on a caretaker bases.\n\nWhile Zeng Xuelin was born in Siam (now Thailand), he moved back with his family to China and settled in Meixian in the Guangdong Province at the age of seven. After finishing high school, he joined the Chinese People's Liberation Army and played for the Guangzhou Army team where he played amateur football in the regional leagues before going to university where he played for the Southwest Military Region football team while he was studying. As part of the Liberation Army he was selected for their top football club Bayi Football Team and studied football in Hungary. When his time ended with Bayi, he was selected to be a part of the China national white team (as Chinese B national team), which was allowed to participate in the league game during that time. In 1957, the White Team had moved to Tianjin, and eventually became Tianjin F.C.; he was the team captain for two seasons, and helped the team to win second place of the first Chinese National Games in 1959 before he officially retired.\n\nBefore he retired from Tianjin he became the player-coach in February 1959, and officially became the team manager in 1960, where he achieved considerable success early within his reign when he won the 1960 Chinese Jia-A League league title and Chinese FA Cup in the same year. The club were constant title contenders throughout his reign despite seeing the Cultural Revolution severely stunting the team's development. Nevertheless, despite there not being any major tournaments held within China the club held on to Zeng when they also made him a consultant within the club. This lasted until 1972 when Beijing football club offered him the youth coach position before he would soon take over the senior side. Once again Zeng was quick to achieve success when he won the 1973 league title in his first season. He continued to make Beijing constant title contenders throughout his reign, which lasted close to ten years and despite not adding more silverware towards the club he would make sure his reign at the club would end on a high when the club won the 1982 league title before taking the Chinese national football team management position. With the national team the team easily qualified for the 1984 AFC Asian Cup where he led the team to a runner-up position within the tournament. After a successful campaign the Chinese public were expecting more from the national team and after a good start in qualification for the 1986 FIFA World Cup the Chinese team were unexpected knocked out from qualification when they lost to Hong Kong who beat them 2-1 on March 19, 1985 in a game that would see Zeng fired.\n\nOn 11 February 2016, Zeng died at his home in Shenzhen, aged 86.\n\nTianjin\n\nBeijing\n\n"}
