{"id": "56614948", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56614948", "title": "1900 English beer poisoning", "text": "1900 English beer poisoning\n\nIn 1900, more than 6,000 people in England were poisoned by arsenic-tainted beer, with more than 70 of the afflicted dying as a result. The food safety crisis was caused by arsenic entering the supply chain through impure sugar which had been made with contaminated sulphuric acid. The illness was prevalent across the Midlands and North West England, with Manchester being the most heavily affected. \n\nOriginally misdiagnosed as alcoholic neuropathy, the main epidemic was only recognised after several months. Additionally, investigation into the outbreak found other sources of arsenic in beer, which had been unknowingly poisoning thousands in decades preceding the outbreak.\n\nThis mass poisoning is unusual in that it was not noticed for four months. The doctors, seeing patients who were usually heavy drinkers and who showed muscle weakness and numbness of the hands or feet, initially thought that the patients were suffering from \"alcoholic neuritis\". Nevertheless, a marked increase in the number of cases was noted, with 41 people succumbing to peripheral neuritis, multiple neuritis or alcoholic neuritis and 66 people perishing from alcoholism in the four months of the outbreak, while the previous seven months revealed only 22.\n\nThese cases of neuritis were eventually connected to cases of skin discolouration previously thought to be unrelated. Ernest Reynolds, the doctor responsible for making the connection, also noted that only one substance would cause these symptoms: arsenic. He also noted that heavy drinkers who drank mainly spirits seemed less affected than beer drinkers. He gathered samples for analysis from the taverns frequented by his patients, which confirmed the presence of arsenic in the beer they consumed.\n\nOnce the breweries affected were identified, investigation as to where the arsenic came from were instituted. It was found that the arsenic was present in invert sugar provided to the breweries by Bostock & Co. of Garston. In order to decrease costs in the tight-margin English beer market, some breweries substituted high-quality barley malt with low-quality barley malt supplemented with sugar. This practice was somewhat controversial; as part of the Pure Beer movement, an inquiry on the use of brewing substitutes had been called. This inquiry, starting in 1896 and ending in 1899, had concluded that brewing substitutes were not \"deleterious materials\" under the Sale of Food and Drugs Act 1875 and that further legislation was not required. \n\nThis sugar was made by acid hydrolysis of starch, where starch is heated in the presence of an acid in order to form glucose. Such a method was not new, and had been employed commercially since at least 1814. Bostock & Co. used sulphuric acid to perform the acid hydrolysis. This acid, purchased from Nicholson & Sons, was made from pyrites which contained arsenic, which remained in the final product.\n\nJohn Nicholson & Sons, of Leeds, had provided sulphuric acid to Bostock & Co. since 1888. For most of the length of the business relationship, the acid provided was free from arsenic. However, in March 1900, Nicholson started supplying unpurified sulphuric acid containing arsenic. This practice continued until November 1900, when the acid was found to be the cause of the outbreak. Nicholson claimed that they did not know the nature of Bostock's use of the acid, and that they could have provided arsenic-free acid if requested.\n\nOnce the main source of the outbreak had been identified as arsenic poisoning, further investigation into arsenic contamination of beer was undertaken. Eventually, it was found that arsenic was also introduced into beer by the malted barley. In the kilning stage of the malting process, the barley humidity content is reduced by drying the grain with the hot vapours of a fire, usually fuelled by coke or coal. It was found that when arsenic is present in the fuel, it could then be deposited upon the barley before steeping, and therefore would be present in the final product. Investigation into the outbreak uncovered that most cases of alcoholic neuropathy endemic to Manchester were, in fact, misdiagnosed arsenic poisoning, with this alternate route being responsible for the poisoning of thousands in the years preceding the outbreak.\n\nThis method of contamination was deemed responsible for an outbreak in the borough of Halifax in January and February 1902 where 13-14 cases of arsenic poisoning were noted, with 3 fatalities. The culprit in this case was deemed to be malt dried over gas coke.\n\nAfter the cause of the poisoning was reported by the media, a considerable reduction in beer consumption was noted in the region.\n\nThe response from the brewing industry was mixed. There was a strong, immediate reaction from some breweries, led by the large Manchester brewery Groves and Whitnall, who went as far as sending out telegrams to all the taverns and inns that had purchased their beer. Breweries disposed of thousands of barrels of beer by dumping them in the city's sewers. Other breweries were slower to respond, with fines being handed out to breweries whose beer samples could still be purchased by investigators. Additionally, one pub was fined for selling contaminated beer after they were notified of the presence of arsenic by the manufacturer.\n\nIn Lancashire, 23 taverns and pubs were prosecuted for violations under section 6 of the Sale of Food and Drugs Act 1875. \n\nBostock & Co. went into liquidation, and sued Nicholson & Sons for damages, for breach of an implied condition under the Sale of Goods Act 1893. The case was heard by Mr Justice Bruce in the High Court: the judge awarded Bostock the price of the contaminated acid and the value of their spoiled products, but no special damages for the loss of goodwill or for the damages claimed by the brewers, incurred by using the contaminated product in their sugar's manufacture. Nicholson & Sons survived, and was later acquired by B. Laporte, now Laporte plc.\n\nThe poisoning resulted in the appointment of a Royal Commission led by Lord Kelvin, which submitted a preliminary report in 1901 and a final report in 1903.\n\nThe effects on the beer market were short-lived, and consumption of beer resumed over the course of the year. Attempts to revive the pure beer movement were nullified by the Commission's report, and by the fact that arsenic was present in malted barley as well as sugar. There seemed to be no direct effects on legislation resulting from the incident.\n\nIn 1901, a considerable decline in the birth rate was noted in Manchester, Salford and Liverpool. This decline was greater in areas most affected, leading the Royal Commission to conclude that the epidemic was the cause.\n"}
{"id": "42029817", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42029817", "title": "A Death of Honor", "text": "A Death of Honor\n\nA Death of Honor is a science fiction mystery novel by American author Joe Clifford Faust. It was published in 1987 by Del Rey Books.\n\nThe novel is set in a crumbling 21st-century America. D. A. Payne, a bioengineer, is the prime suspect when a dead woman turns up in his apartment. He takes on the task of clearing himself but what he uncovers changes his life.\n\nAccording to the author, \"A Death of Honor\" was originally envisioned as a collaboration between various authors. Having written the first chapter while working on his novel \"Desperate Measures\", Faust decided to finish the book himself when the collaboration stalled. It was his first novel to be published.\n\n"}
{"id": "55456015", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55456015", "title": "Adam Drummond (surgeon)", "text": "Adam Drummond (surgeon)\n\nAdam Drummond of Binend (1679-1758) was a Scottish surgeon-apothecary who was appointed, jointly, as the first Professor of Anatomy at the University of Edinburgh.\n\nHe was the third son of Adam Drummond (1649-1709) of Megginch, 9th of Lennoch, a Commissioner to the Scottish Parliament and a Privy Councillor of Scotland. His father, a prominent Scottish lawyer and politician, was appointed in 1692 as one of the commissioners into the enquiry into the massacre of Glencoe. His elder brother John Drummond 10th of Lennoch and 3rd of Megginch was Member of Parliament for Perthshire.\nAdam Drummond was born on the family estate at Megginch in Perthshire and went to the local school in Errol before matriculating at St. Andrews University at the age of sixteen. Three years later he became surgical apprentice to Thomas Edgar who had been Deacon of the Incorporation of Surgeons of Edinburgh from 1685 to 1687. \nOn completion of his apprenticeship he went, as was the custom of the day, for further education at a continental University. En route to the continent he took a course of anatomy in London from a fellow Scot Dr Robert Erskine of Alva, before further studies at the University of Leyden.\n\nOn his return to Edinburgh, Drummond was admitted to the Incorporation of Surgeons in 1707 and established a practice as a surgeon-apothecary in the Lawnmarket in Edinburgh. He was appointed as the joint Professor of Anatomy to the Town’s College (which became the University of Edinburgh in 1708) to join Robert Eliot, who had been appointed in 1705, was the first to hold that post and was the first Professor of Anatomy in Britain. In 1720 Drummond resigned \"owing to the state of his health and his business\", although it is likely that this was as a result of pressure from John Monro, who wished to advance the interests of his son Alexander. One week later the University appointed Alexander Monro \"primus\" as his successor, paving the way for the famous dynasty of Anatomy professors.\n\nDrummond’s practice as a surgeon-apothecary flourished and he dispensed remedies prescribed by the most eminent physicians of the day. This successful practice attracted many apprentices.\n\nDrummond had been librarian to the Incorporation of Surgeons from 1746 and was Deacon (President) of the Incorporation between 1748 and 1750.\n\nThe Drummond family were staunch Hanoverians. In the 1745 Jacobite uprising the Jacobite army under Prince Charles Edwart Stuart defeated a Government army under the command of General Sir John Cope at the Battle of Prestonpans. Among the surgeons from Edinburgh who came to attend the wounded was Colin Simpson, one of Drummond’s apprentices, whose loyalty to the Government was such that he was entrusted to secretly deliver 400 guineas to Drummond’s nephew, Captain Adam Drummond, paymaster to the 47th Regiment of Foot, who had been captured after Prestonpans and was being held prisoner at Queensberry House in Edinburgh. Other surgeons who treated the wounded after the battle were Alexander Monro \"primus\", Alexander Wood, John Rattray and George Lauder.\n\nHe married Margaret Spittall in 1710. Their daughter Elizabeth married James Stuart who served three terms of office as Lord Provost of Edinburgh. Drummond bought a house and estate at Binend in Fife. He died in November 1758 and was buried in Greyfriars Kirkyard, Edinburgh.\n"}
{"id": "31303438", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31303438", "title": "African Society of Hypertension (AfSoH) Initiative", "text": "African Society of Hypertension (AfSoH) Initiative\n\nThe African Society of Hypertension (AfSoH) Initiative is an international organization initiative with the objective to create the African Society of Hypertension with a main goal of providing a stable and organized African platform for scientific exchange in arterial hypertension. The AfSoH Initiative was created in 2010 by the consortium of health professionals and researchers active in field of arterial hypertension on African continent led by Marc Twagirumukiza. The official membership is obtained after registration.\n\nThe society organizes bi-annual meetings in different African cities as well as summer schools.\n\nThe AfSoH Initiative areas of research activities are illustrated by the different task forces:\n"}
{"id": "45624709", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45624709", "title": "Antimicrobial stewardship", "text": "Antimicrobial stewardship\n\nAntimicrobial stewardship (AMS) is the systematic effort to educate and persuade prescribers of antimicrobials to follow evidence-based prescribing, in order to stem antibiotic overuse, and thus antimicrobial resistance. AMS has been an organized effort of specialists in infectious diseases, both in Internal Medicine and Pediatrics with their respective peer-organizations, hospital pharmacists, the public health community and their professional organizations since the late 1990s. It has first been implemented in hospitals. In the U.S., within the context of physicians' prescribing freedom (choice of prescription drugs), AMS has largely been voluntary self-regulation in the form of policies and appeals to adhere to a prescribing self-discipline. At hospitals, this may take the form of an antimicrobial stewardship program. As of 2014, only the state of California has made this type of AMS mandatory by law. Within the context of commercial and over-the-counter use of antimicrobials, legally mandated AMS has begun with FDA rules that triclosan be phased out of consumer-grade soaps due to lack of good evidence that such use improves public health.\n\nThe 2007 definition by the Society for Healthcare Epidemiology of America (SHEA) defines AMS as a \"set of coordinated strategies to improve the use of antimicrobial medications with the goal to \n\nDecreasing the overuse of antimicrobials is expected to serve the following goals:\n\nAntimicrobial misuse was recognized as early as the 1940s, when Alexander Fleming remarked on penicillin's decreasing efficacy, because of its overuse.\n\nIn 1966, the first systematic assessment of antibiotic use in the Winnipeg, Manitoba, Canada general hospital was published: Medical records were reviewed during two non-consecutive four-month periods (medicine, psychiatry, urology, gynecology and surgery, orthopedics, neurosurgery, ear, nose and throat, and ophthalmology). Information was coded on punched cards using 78 columns.\nOthers in 1968 estimated that 50% of antimicrobial use was either unnecessary or inappropriate This figure is likely the lower end of the estimate, and continues to be referenced as of 2015.\n\nIn the 1970s the first clinical pharmacy services were established in North American hospitals. The first formal evaluation of antibiotic use in children regarding antibiotic choice, dose and necessity of treatment was undertaken at The Children's Hospital of Winnipeg. Researchers observed errors in therapy in 30% of medical orders and 63% of surgical orders. The most frequent error was unnecessary treatment found in 13% of medical and 45% of surgical orders. The authors stated \"Many find it difficult to accept that there are standards against which therapy may be judged.\"\n\nIn the 1980s the antibiotic class of cephalosporins was introduced, further increasing bacterial resistance. During this decade infection control programs began to be established in hospitals, which systematically recorded and investigated hospital-acquired infections. Evidence-based treatment guidelines and regulation of antibiotic use surfaced. Australian researchers published the first medical guideline outcomes research.\n\nThe term AMS was coined in 1996 by two internists at Emory University School of Medicine, John McGowan and Dale Gerding, a specialist on C. difficile. They suggested \"...large-scale, well-controlled trials of antimicrobial use regulation employing sophisticated epidemiologic methods, molecular biological organism typing, and precise resistance mechanism analysis [...] to determine the best methods to prevent and control this problem [antimicrobial resistance] and ensure our optimal antimicrobial use stewardship\" and that \"...the long-term effects of antimicrobial selection, dosage, and duration of treatment on resistance development should be a part of every antimicrobial treatment decision.\"\n\nIn 1997, SHEA and the Infectious Diseases Society of America published guidelines to prevent antimicrobial resistance arguing that \"…appropriate antimicrobial stewardship, that includes optimal selection, dose, and duration of treatment, as well as control of antibiotic use, will prevent or slow the emergence of resistance among microorganisms.\" \n\nTen years later, in 2007, bacterial, antiviral and antifungal resistance had risen to such a degree that the CDC rang the alarm . The same year, IDSA and SHEA published guidelines for developing an AMS program. Also in 2007, the first pediatric publication used the term AMS.\n\nA survey of pediatric infectious disease consultants in 2008 by the Emerging Infectious Disease Network revealed that only 45 (33%) respondents had an AMS program, mostly from before 2000, and another 25 (18%) planned an ASP (data unpublished).\n\nIn 2012, the SHEA, IDSA and PIDS published a joint policy statement on AMS.\n\nThe CDC's NHSN has been monitoring antimicrobial use and resistance in hospitals that volunteer to provide data.\n\nIn 2014, the CDC recommended, that all US hospitals have an antibiotic stewardship program.\n\nThe Joint Commission has approved regulations which go into effect January 1, 2017 detailing that hospitals should have an Antimicrobial Stewardship team consisting of Infection preventionist(s), Pharmacist(s), and a Practitioner to write protocols and develop projects focused on the appropriate use of antibiotics.\n\nAMS is needed wherever antimicrobials are prescribed in human medicine, namely in hospitals, outpatient clinics, and long term care institutions, including hospice.\n\nGuidelines for prudent or judicious use in veterinary medicine have been developed by the Canadian Veterinary Medicine Association in 2008. A particular problem is that veterinarians are both prescribers and dispensers. Regulators and the veterinary community in the European Union have been discussing the separation of these activities.\n\nAntimicrobial stewardship focuses on prescribers, be it physician, physician assistant, nurse practitioner, on the prescription and the microorganism, if any. At a hospital, AMS can be organized in the form of an AMS committee that meets monthly. The day-to-day work is done by a core group, usually an infectious disease physician, who may or may not serve in hospital epidemiology and infection control, or/ and a pharmacist, ideally but rarely aided by an information technologist. The entire committee may include physician representatives, who are top antimicrobial prescribers such as physicians in intensive care medicine, Hematology -Oncology, cystic fibrosis clinicians or hospitalists, a microbiologist, a quality improvement (QI) specialist, and a representative from hospital administration.\n\nFor an AMS program to be established the institution has to recognize its value. In the US it has become customary to present a business plan to the executive officers of the hospital administration.\n\nAs of 2014, thirteen internet-based institutional ASP resources in US academic medical centers had been published. An AMS program has the following tasks, in line with quality improvement theory:\n\nParts of the baseline assessment are to:\nIn hospitals and clinics using electronic medical records, information technology resources are crucial to hone in on these questions. As of 2015, commercial computer surveillance software programs for microbiology and antimicrobial administrations appear to outnumber \"homegrown\" institutional programs, and include, but are not limited to TREAT Steward, TheraDoc, Sentri7, and Vigilanz.\n\nFor the desired antimicrobial use, goals need to be formulated:\n\nThe actual interventions on antimicrobial prescribing consist of numerous elements\n\n\nBiomerieux has published case studies of countries that introduced AMS.\n\nThe day-to-day work of the core AMS members is to screen patients' medical records for some of the following questions, in order of importance:\nIf the answer is no, the team needs to effectively communicate a recommendation, which may be in person or in the medical record.\n\nFurther tasks are:\n\nTwo pediatric infectious disease physicians have suggested to look at the following variables to judge the outcome of AMS interventions: \nWhen examining the relationship between an outcome and an intervention, the epidemiological method of time series analysis is preferred, because it accounts for the dependence between time points.\nA recent global stewardship survey identified barriers to the initiation, development and implementation of stewardship programmes internationally.\n\nIt can be difficult to decide if a clinical syndrome or a particular drug should be targeted for interventions and education. \nHow to best modify prescriber behavior has been the subject of controversy and research. At issue is how feedback is presented to prescribers, individually, in aggregate, with or without peer comparisons, and whether to reward or punish. \nAs long as the best quality metrics for an AMS program are unknown, a combination of antimicrobial consumption, antimicrobial resistance, and antimicrobial and drug resistant organism related mortality are used.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "845862", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=845862", "title": "Antonine Plague", "text": "Antonine Plague\n\nThe Antonine Plague of 165 to 180 AD, also known as the Plague of Galen (from the name of the Greek physician living in the Roman Empire who described it), was an ancient pandemic brought back to the Roman Empire by troops returning from campaigns in the Near East. Scholars have suspected it to have been either smallpox or measles, but the true cause remains undetermined. The epidemic may have claimed the life of a Roman emperor, Lucius Verus, who died in 169 and was the co-regent of Marcus Aurelius Antoninus, whose family name, Antoninus, has become associated with the epidemic. The disease broke out again nine years later, according to the Roman historian Dio Cassius (155–235), causing up to 2,000 deaths a day in Rome, one quarter of those who were affected, giving the disease a mortality rate of about 25%. The total deaths have been estimated at five million, and the disease killed as much as one-third of the population in some areas and devastated the Roman army. \n\nAncient sources agree that the epidemic appeared first during the Roman siege of Seleucia in the winter of 165–166. Ammianus Marcellinus reports that the plague spread to Gaul and to the legions along the Rhine. Eutropius asserts that a large population died throughout the Empire.\n\nRafe de Crespigny speculates that the plague may have also broken out in Eastern Han China before 166, given notices of plagues in Chinese records. The plague affected Roman culture and literature, and may have severely affected Indo-Roman trade relations in the Indian Ocean.\n\nIn 166, during the epidemic, the Greek physician and writer Galen traveled from Rome to his home in Asia Minor. He returned to Rome in 168 when summoned by the two Augusti - the co-emperors Marcus Aurelius and Lucius Verus; he was present at the outbreak among troops stationed at Aquileia in the winter of 168/69. Galen briefly records observations and a description of the epidemic in the treatise \"Methodus Medendi\", and his other references to it are scattered among his voluminous writings. He describes the plague as \"great\" and of long duration and mentions fever, diarrhea, and pharyngitis, as well as a skin eruption, sometimes dry and sometimes pustular, appearing on the ninth day of the illness. The information provided by Galen does not clearly define the nature of the disease, but scholars have generally preferred to diagnose it as smallpox.\n\nHistorian William McNeill asserts that the Antonine Plague and the later Plague of Cyprian (251–ca. 270) were outbreaks of two different diseases, one of smallpox and one of measles, not necessarily in that order. The severe devastation to the European population from the two plagues may indicate that people had no previous exposure to either disease, which brought immunity to survivors. Other historians believe that both outbreaks involved smallpox. The latter view seems more likely to be correct given that molecular estimates place the evolution of measles sometime after 500 AD.\n\nIn their consternation, many turned to the protection offered by magic. Lucian of Samosata's irony-laden account of the charlatan Alexander of Abonoteichus records a verse of his \"which he despatched to all the nations during the pestilence... was to be seen written over doorways everywhere\", particularly in the houses that were emptied, Lucian further remarks.\n\nThe epidemic had drastic social and political effects throughout the Roman Empire: Barthold Georg Niebuhr (1776–1831) concluded that \"as the reign of Marcus Aurelius forms a turning point in so many things, and above all in literature and art, I have no doubt that this crisis was brought about by that plague... The ancient world never recovered from the blow inflicted on it by the plague which visited it in the reign of Marcus Aurelius.\" During the Marcomannic Wars, Marcus Aurelius wrote his philosophical work 'Meditations'. Passage IX.2 states that even the pestilence around him is less deadly than falsehood, evil behavior, and lack of true understanding. As he lay dying, Marcus uttered the words, \"Weep not for me; think rather of the pestilence and the deaths of so many others.\" Edward Gibbon (1737–1794) and Michael Rostovtzeff (1870–1952) assign the Antonine plague less influence than contemporary political and economic trends, respectively.\n\nSome direct effects of the contagion stand out. When imperial forces moved east under the command of Emperor Verus after the forces of Vologases IV of Parthia attacked Armenia, the Romans' defense of the eastern territories was hampered when large numbers of troops succumbed to the disease. According to the 5th-century Spanish writer Paulus Orosius, many towns and villages in the Italian Peninsula and the European provinces lost all their inhabitants. As the disease swept north to the Rhine, it also infected Germanic and Gallic peoples outside the Empire's borders. For a number of years, those northern groups had pressed south in search of more lands to sustain their growing populations. With their ranks thinned by the epidemic, Roman armies were now unable to push the tribes back. From 167 to his death, Marcus Aurelius personally commanded legions near the Danube, trying, with only partial success, to control the advance of Germanic peoples across the river. A major offensive against the Marcomanni was postponed until 169 because of a shortage of imperial troops.\n\nAlthough Ge Hong was the first in China to accurately describe the symptoms of smallpox, historian Rafe de Crespigny muses that the plagues afflicting the Eastern Han empire of China during the reigns of Emperor Huan of Han (r. 146-168) and Emperor Ling of Han (r. 168–189) - with outbreaks in 151, 161, 171, 173, 179, 182, and 185 - were perhaps connected to the Antonine plague on the western end of Eurasia. Crespigny suggests that these plagues led to the rise of the cult faith healing millenarian movement led by Zhang Jue (d. 184), who instigated the disastrous Yellow Turban Rebellion (184-205). He also states that \"it may be only chance\" that the outbreak of the Antonine plague in 166 coincides with the Roman embassy of \"Daqin\" (i.e. the Roman Empire) landing in Jiaozhi (northern Vietnam) and visiting the Han court of Emperor Huan, claiming to represent \"Andun\" (安敦; a transliteration of Marcus Aurelius Antoninus or his predecessor Antoninus Pius). \n\nRaoul McLaughlin writes that this event of Roman subjects visiting the Han Chinese court in 166 could have ushered in a new era of Roman Far East trade, yet it was a \"harbinger of something much more ominous\" instead. McLaughlin surmises that the origins of the plague lay in Central Asia, from some unknown and isolated population group, which then spread to the Chinese and Roman worlds. The plague would kill roughly 10% of the Roman population, as cited by McLaughlin, causing \"irreparable\" damage to the Roman maritime trade in the Indian Ocean as proven by the archaeological record spanning from Egypt to India, as well as significantly decreased Roman commercial activity in Southeast Asia. However, as evidenced by the 3rd-century \"Periplus of the Erythraean Sea\" and the 6th-century \"Christian Topography\" by Cosmas Indicopleustes, Roman maritime trade into the Indian Ocean, particularly the silk and spice trade, certainly did not cease and continued up until the loss of Egypt to the Rashidun Caliphate. Chinese histories also insist that further Roman embassies came to China by way of Rinan in Vietnam in 226 and 284 AD, where Roman artefacts have been found.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "58502027", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58502027", "title": "Bobbie Berkowitz", "text": "Bobbie Berkowitz\n\nBobbie Berkowitz is an American professor of nursing and dean emeritus of the School of Nursing at Columbia University. She is best known for her contributions improving public health nursing and health systems with a focus on health disparity.\n\nBerkowitz earned her BS (1972) in nursing and her MS (1981) in nursing at University of Washington, and she earned her doctorate in 1990 from Case Western Reserve University.\n\nPrior to joining Columbia University as Senior Vice President and Dean of Nursing in 2010, Berkowitz was a Professor at University of Washington and Deputy Secretary of the Washington State Department of Health.\n\nAt Columbia University, Berkowitz was instrumental in the creation of a new facility to house the School of Nursing, that included the signature \"Building the Future Gala\" in honor of the 125th anniversary of the founding of the School.\n\nAs part of her efforts to strengthen healthcare systems, Berkowitz spoke against recommendations by the American Academy of Family Physicians and advocated for the role of the advanced practice registered nurse sharing, \"There's a lot of research that nurse practitioners provide as good care if not better care than physicians in some cases.\" And in 2016, Columbia University opened a nurse practitioner primary care facility in Washington Heights, Manhattan.\n\nIn 2001, Berkowitz was inducted into the National Academy of Medicine. From 2014-2016, Berkowitz served as President of the American Academy of Nursing.\n"}
{"id": "41336706", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41336706", "title": "Boost Buddy", "text": "Boost Buddy\n\nBoost Buddy is an Irish supplier of personalised vitamins and minerals (multivitamins) specially targeted to Generation Y. Established in 2013 by Des Swan and John Munnelly, the company is based in Newbridge, Ireland.\n\nBoost Buddy ran a 5-week TV advertising campaign in the UK which was broadcast on the Channel 4 network channels, such as Dave, E4, Kiss, Kerrang, Smash, Heat, Music, Box and 4Music.\n\nA key element of Boost Buddy's offer is their packaging solution, a fully recyclable pack which Boost Buddy has developed with carton packaging company Chesapeake (Leicester and Nottingham). Boost Buddy pack acts as both a primary pack and transit case for the Boost Buddy range of multivitamins.\n\nBoost Buddy was named finalist for the Pro-Carton ECMA European Packaging Award for Innovation. Nicorette's Pandora Box was declared winner for this category at a ceremony held in September 2013 at the ECMA Annual Congressin Dubrovnik, Croatia.\n\nIn September 2013 Boost Buddy's packaging was nominated for the SupplySide Names Editor's Choice Award 2013, under the category of Packaging Design. The award ceremony will be held at SupplySide West 2013 in November 2013 in Las Vegas.\n\nBoost Buddy sponsors British surfer Laura Crane and the University of Warwick Basketball Club.\n\n"}
{"id": "3407240", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3407240", "title": "Bristol stool scale", "text": "Bristol stool scale\n\nThe Bristol stool scale is a diagnostic medical tool designed to classify the form of human faeces into seven categories. It is used in both clinical and experimental fields. It is sometimes also referred to as the Bristol stool chart (BSC), Bristol stool form scale, or BSF scale.\n\nIt was developed at the Bristol Royal Infirmary as a clinical assessment tool in 1997, and is widely used as a research tool to evaluate the effectiveness of treatments for various diseases of the bowel, as well as a clinical communication aid; including being part of the diagnostic triad for irritable bowel syndrome.\n\nThe seven types of stool are:\n\n\nTypes 1 and 2 indicate constipation, with 4 being the ideal stools as they are easy to defecate while not containing excess liquid, 5 tending towards diarrhoea, and 6 and 7 indicate diarrhoea.\n\nIn the initial study, in the population examined in this scale, the type 1 and 2 stools were more prevalent in females, while the type 5 and 6 stools were more prevalent in males; furthermore, 80% of subjects who reported rectal tenesmus (urgency to defecate) had type 7. These and other data have allowed the scale to be validated.\n\nThe Bristol stool scale is also very sensitive to changes in intestinal transit time caused by medications, such as antidiarrhoeal loperamide or senna, anthraquinone substance with laxative effect.\n\nDeveloped and proposed for the first time in England by Dr. Stephen Lewis and Dr. Ken Heaton at the University Department of Medicine, Bristol Royal Infirmary, it was suggested by the authors as a clinical assessment tool in 1997 in the journal \"Scandinavian Journal of Gastroenterology\" after a previous prospective study, conducted in 1992 on a sample of the population (838 men and 1,059 women), had shown an unexpected prevalence of defecation disorders related to the shape and type of stool. The authors of the former paper concluded that the form of the stool is a useful surrogate measure of colon transit time. That conclusion has since been challenged as having limited validity for Types 1 and 2; however, it remains in use as a research tool to evaluate the effectiveness of treatments for various diseases of the bowel, as well as a clinical communication aid.\n\nThe same scale has been validated in Spanish, Brazilian Portuguese, and Polish versions. A version has also been designed and validated for paediatrics. More recently, in September 2011, a modified version of the scale was validated using a criterion of self-assessment for ages 6–8 years of age.\n\nA version of the scale was developed into a chart suitable for use on US television by Dr. Gary Kahan of NewYork–Presbyterian Hospital.\n\nPatients with IBS or irritable bowel syndrome typically report that they suffer with abdominal cramps and constipation.\nIn some patients, chronic constipation is interspersed with brief episodes of diarrhoea; while a minority of patients with IBS have only diarrhoea.\nThe presentation of symptoms is usually months or years and commonly patients consult different doctors, without great success, and doing various specialized investigations.\nIt notices a strong correlation of the reported symptoms with stress; indeed diarrhoeal discharges are associated with emotional phenomena.\nIBS blood is present only if the disease is associated with haemorrhoids.\n\nResearch conducted on irritable bowel syndrome in the 2000s, faecal incontinence and the gastrointestinal complications of HIV have used the Bristol scale as a diagnostic tool easy to use; even in research which lasted for 77 months.\n\nHistorically, this scale of assessment of the faeces has been recommended by the consensus group of Kaiser Permanente Medical Care Program (San Diego, California) for the collection of data on functional bowel disease (FBD).\n\nMore recently, according to the latest revision of the Rome III Criteria, six clinical manifestations of IBS can be identified:\n\nThese four identified subtypes correlate with the consistency of the stool, which can be determined by the Bristol stool scale.\n\nIn 2007, the \"Mayo Clinic College of Medicine\" in Rochester (United States), reported a piece of epidemiological research conducted on a population of 4,196 people living in Olmsted County (Minnesota), in which participants were asked to complete a questionnaire based on the \"Bristol stool scale\".\n\nThe research results (see table) indicate that about 1 in 5 people have a slow transit (type 1 and 2 stools), while 1 in 12 has an accelerated transit (type 5 and 6 stools). Moreover, the nature of the stool is affected by age, sex, body mass index, whether or not they had cholecystectomy and possible psychosomatic components (somatisation); there were no effects from factors such as smoking, alcohol, the level of education, a history of appendectomy or familiarity with gastrointestinal diseases, civil state, or the use of oral contraceptives.\n\nSeveral investigations correlate the Bristol stool scale in response to medications or therapies, in fact, in one study was also used to titrate the dose more finely than one drug (colestyramine) in subjects with diarrhoea and faecal incontinence.\n\nIn a randomised controlled study, the scale is used to study the response to two laxatives: Macrogol (polyethylene glycol) and psyllium (\"Plantago psyllium\" and other species of the same genus) of 126 male and female patients for a period of 2 weeks of treatment; failing to show the most rapid response and increased efficiency of the former over the latter. In the study, they were measured as primary \"outcomes\": the number weekly bowel movements, stool consistency according to the types of the \"Bristol stool scale\", time to defecation, the overall effectiveness, the difficulty in defecating and stool consistency.\n\nFrom 2010, several clinical studies have used the scale as a diagnostic tool validated for recognition and evaluation of response to various treatments, pharmacological and no, different, such as: probiotics, moxicombustion, laxatives in the elderly, preparing Ayurvedic poly-phytotherapy filed TLPL/AY, psyllium, mesalazine, methylnaltrexone, and oxycodone/naloxone. Or to assess the response to physical activity in athletes.\n\n"}
{"id": "41288994", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41288994", "title": "Cand.med.vet.", "text": "Cand.med.vet.\n\nCand.med.vet ( (male/female) ) or \"candidate of veterinary medicine\" is an academic degree awarded in Scandinavian countries following a 5,5 to 6 year veterinary medical school education. It is equivalent with the same kind of degrees given in other countries, like: DVM, VDM, BVSc, BVM&S etc., which also opens for authorization as a veterinarian.\n\nIn Norway the degree is given by NMBU (former NVH) located in Campus Adamstuen in Oslo, Norway. In Denmark by the University of Copenhagen, and in Sweden by the Swedish University of Agricultural sciences, the only educational institutions in the Scandinavian countries to offer the veterinary degree. In Norway the title is one of few academic titles to remain unchanged during the \"Quality reform\" changes of 2002-2003, along with cand.med (human medicine), cand.psychol (psychology), cand.theol (religious studies).\n"}
{"id": "533484", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=533484", "title": "City, University of London", "text": "City, University of London\n\nCity, University of London is a public research university in London, United Kingdom. Since 2016 it has been a constituent college of The University of London.\n\nIt was founded in 1894 as the Northampton Institute and became a university when The City University was created by royal charter in 1966. The Inns of Court School of Law, which merged with City in 2001, was established in 1852, making it the former City University's oldest constituent part. On 1 September 2016, City joined the federal University of London, becoming part of the 18 Colleges and ten research institutes that make up the University. The university has strong links with the City of London, and the Lord Mayor of London serves as the University's Rector.\n\nCity, University of London, has its main campus in central London in the Islington borough, with additional campuses in Islington and across the City of London, the West End and East End of London. It is organised into seven schools, within which there are around 40 academic departments and centres, including: the Department of Journalism, the Cass Business School, and City Law School which incorporates the Inns of Court School of Law.\n\nThe annual income of the institution for 2016–17 was £227.0 million of which £11.6 million was from research grants and contracts, with an expenditure of £221.4 million. Cass Business School is ranked 5th in the UK and top 40 in the world in the Financial Times' 2017 Global MBA Rankings. City, University of London, is a member of the Association of MBAs, EQUIS and Universities UK.\n\nCity University traces its origin to the Northampton Institute, established in 1852 and named after the Marquess of Northampton who donated the land on which the institute was built, between Northampton Square and St John Street in Islington. The institute was established to provide for the education and welfare of the local population. It was constituted under the City of London Parochial Charities Act (1883), with the objective of \"the promotion of the industrial skill, general knowledge, health and well-being of young men and women belonging to the poorer classes\".\n\nNorthampton Polytechnic Institute was an institute of technology in Clerkenwell, London, founded in 1894. Alumni include Colin Cherry, Stuart Davies and Anthony Hunt. Arthur George Cocksedge, a British gymnast who competed in the 1920 Summer Olympics, was a member of the Northampton Polytechnic Institute's Gymnastics Club and was Champion of the United Kingdom in 1920. In 1937 Maurice Dennis of the (Northampton Polytechnic ABC) was the 1937 ABA Middleweight Champion. Frederick Handley Page was a lecturer in aeronautics at the institute. The Handley Page Type A, the first powered aircraft designed and built by him, ended up as an instructional airframe at the school. The novelist Eric Ambler studied engineering at the institute.\n\nThe six original departments at the institute were Applied Physics and Electrical Engineering; Artistic Crafts; Domestic Economy and Women's Trades; Electro-Chemistry; Horology (the science of time and art of clock-making); and Mechanical Engineering and Metal Trades.\n\nIn 1903–04 a separate technical optics department was established. In 1909 the first students qualified for University of London BSc degrees in engineering as internal students. Since 1909 the institute had been involved in aeronautics education, and in 2009 the School of Engineering and Mathematical Sciences celebrated the centenary of aeronautics at City. In 1908 the Institute was used for the Olympic Games. Boxing took place at the Institute.\n\nThe institute was designated a \"College of Advanced Technology\" in 1957.\n\nIn 1961 the institute's involvement in information science began with the introduction of a course on \"Collecting and Communicating Scientific Knowledge\". In 1966 City received its royal charter, becoming \"The City University\" to reflect the institution's close links with the City of London. In 1971 the Apollo 15 astronauts visited City and presented the Vice-Chancellor, Tait, with a piece of heat shield from the Apollo 15 rocket.\n\nIn October 1995 it was announced that City University would merge with both the St Bartholomew School of Nursing & Midwifery and the Charterhouse College of Radiography, doubling the number of students in City's Institute of Health Sciences to around 2,500.\n\nThe University formed a strategic alliance with Queen Mary, University of London, in April 2001. In May 2001, a fire in the college building gutted the fourth floor offices and roof. In August 2001 City and the Inns of Court School of Law agreed to merge. Following a donation from Sir John Cass's Foundation, a multimillion-pound building was built at 106 Bunhill Row for the Cass Business School.\nA new £23 million building to house the School of Social Sciences and the Department of Language and Communication Science was opened in 2004. The reconstruction and redevelopment of the university's Grade II listed college building (following the fire in 2001) was completed in July 2006.\n\nIn 2007 the School of Arts received a £10m building refurbishment. A new students' union venue opened in October 2008 called \"TEN squared\", which provides a hub for students to socialise in during the day and hosts a wide range of evening entertainment including club nights, society events and quiz nights.\n\nIn January 2010, premises were shared with the University of East Anglia (UEA) London, following City's partnership with INTO University Partnerships. Since then City has resumed its own International Foundation Programme to prepare students for their pre-university year. In April 2011, it was announced that the current halls of residence and Saddler's Sports Centre will be closed and demolished for rebuilding in June 2011. The new student halls and sports facility, now known as CitySport, opened in 2015.\n\nIn September 2016 City University, London became a member institution of the federal University of London and changed its name to City, University of London.\n\nCity has sites throughout London, with the main campus located at Northampton Square in the Finsbury area of Islington. The Rhind Building which houses the School of Arts and Social Sciences is directly west of Northampton Square. A few buildings of the main campus are located in nearby Goswell Road in Clerkenwell.\n\nOther academic sites are:\n\nThe Rector of City, University of London, is the Lord Mayor of the City of London ex officio. The day-to-day running of the university is the responsibility of the President. The current President is Professor Sir Paul Curran.\n\nCity, University of London is organised into five schools:\n\nIn the financial year ended 31 July 2011, City had a total income (including share of joint ventures) of £178.6 million (2008/09 – £174.4 million) and total expenditure of £183.62 million (2008/09 – £178.82 million). Key sources of income included £39.58 million from Funding Council grants (2008/09 – £39.52 million), £116.91 million from tuition fees and education contracts (2008/09 – £104.39 million), £7.86 million from research grants and contracts (2008/09 – £9.29 million), £1.04 from endowment and investment income (2008/09 – £1.83 million) and £15.05 million from other income (2008/09 – £19.37 million).\n\nDuring the 2010/11 financial year, City had a capital expenditure of £9.77 million (2008/09 – £16.13 million).\n\nAt year end, City had reserves and endowments of £112.89 million (2009/10 – £110.05 million) and total net assets of £147.64 million (2008/09 – £147.27 million).\n\nCity, University of London, offers Bachelor's, Master's, and Doctoral degrees as well as certificates and diplomas at both undergraduate and postgraduate level. More than two thirds of City's programmes are recognised by the appropriate professional bodies such as the BCS, BPS, CILIP, ICE, RICS, HPC etc. in recognition of the high standards of relevance to the professions. The University also has an online careers network where over 2,000 former students offer practical help to current students.\n\nThe City Law School offers courses for undergraduates, postgraduates, master graduates and professional courses leading to qualification as a solicitor or barrister, as well as continuing professional development. Its Legal Practice Course has the highest quality rating from the Solicitors Regulation Authority.\n\nThe Department of Radiography (part of the School of Community and Health Sciences) offers two radiography degrees, the BSc (Hons) Radiography (Diagnostic Imaging) and BSc (Hons) Radiography (Radiotherapy and Oncology), both of which are recognised by the Health Professions Council (HPC).\n\nQueen Mary, University of London, and City, University of London, were jointly awarded Centre for Excellence in Teaching and Learning (CETL) status by the Higher Education Funding Council for England (HEFCE) in recognition of their work in skills training for 3,000 students across six healthcare professions.\n\nCity, University of London, has links with businesses in the City of London.\nCity has also joined forces with other universities such as Queen Mary and the Institute of Education (both part of the University of London) with which it jointly delivers several leading degree programmes.\n\nLondon Centre for Arts and Cultural Exchange is a consortium of nine universities. It was established in 2004 to foster collaboration and to promote and support the exchange of knowledge between the consortium's partners and London's arts and cultural sectors. The nine institutions involved are: University of the Arts London; Birkbeck, University of London; City, University of London; The Courtauld Institute of Art; Goldsmiths, University of London; Guildhall School of Music & Drama; King's College London; Queen Mary, University of London, and Royal Holloway, University of London.\n\nSimfonec is a collaborative Science Enterprise Centre (SEC) for the exploitation and transfer of knowledge, ideas and resources among three key sectors – academic, financial and Small and Medium Enterprises (SMEs). Simfonec encourages the development of an entrepreneurial outlook amongst researchers in science and technology and orchestrates the delivery of science ideas to the commercial marketplace. It is a partnership between four of London universities (Royal Veterinary College, King's College London, Queen Mary, University of London, and City, University of London). It was launched in March 2003 by the Department of Trade and Industry.\n\nIn September 2006, City joined the Willis Towers Watson Research Network (WTWRN), a major, long-term partnership between leading international scientific institutions (including the universities of Bristol, Cambridge, Durham and Imperial College London) and the global insurance broker Willis Towers Watson. The purpose of the network is to evaluate the frequency, severity and impact of catastrophes such as hurricanes, earthquakes, floods and terrorism.\n\nCity is a founding member of the WC2 University Network, a network of universities developed with the goal of bringing together leading universities located in the heart of major world cities in order to address cultural, environmental and political issues of common interest to world cities and their universities. In addition to City, University of London, the founding members of WC2 members are: City University of New York, Technische Universität Berlin, Universidade de São Paulo, Hong Kong Polytechnic University, Universidad Autonoma Metropolitana, Saint Petersburg State Polytechnical University, Politecnico di Milano, University of Delhi, Northeastern University Boston and Tongji University.\n\nCity was selected as the sole British university to take part in the selective Erasmus Mundus MULTI programme, funded by the European Commission to promote scientific exchange between Europe and the industrialised countries of South-East Asia. It is the first Erasmus program to involve universities outside of Europe. In addition to City, the partner universities are: Aix-Marseille University (France), Univerzita Karlova v Praze (Czech Republic), Freie Universität Berlin (Germany), Universität des Saarlandes (Germany), Università di Pisa (Italy), Universidad de Sevilla (Spain), The Hong Kong Polytechnic University (Hong Kong, SAR China), Universiti Brunei Darussalam (Brunei), University of Macau (Macau, SAR China), Nanyang Technological University (Singapore), and National Taiwan University (Taiwan).\n\nCity has joined the executive group of UCL Partners, one of five accredited academic health science groups in the UK. City was invited to join the partnership in recognition of its expertise in nursing, allied health, health services research and evaluation and health management.\n\nCity is the birthplace of City Technology plc, which is the world's leading manufacturer of fuel-cell gas sensors used in worker safety, automotive, medical and emissions monitoring applications. City Technology plc was previously listed on the London Stock Exchange but was acquired by Honeywell in March 2006.\n\nThe City Students' Union is run primarily by students through three elected Sabbatical Officers, an Executive Committee and a Union Council, with oversight by a Trustee Board. The Students Union provides support, representation, facilities, services, entertainment and activities for its members. It is run for students by students.\n\nCity currently has two student media outlets. Both student are student run including Carrot Radio, which currently records weekday podcasts. The second is the student led online magazine, The Howl. They recently released their first print magazine in December 2017.\n\nFor a number of years, City students have taken part in the annual Lord Mayor's Show, representing the university in one of the country's largest and liveliest parades.\n\nCity ranked 7th out of the 168 universities surveyed in the 2016 People & Planet league table of the most sustainable UK universities. It was the highest ranking University of London institution, and one of only two in the top twenty (LSE being 14th). \n\nThe league table's \"Fossil Free Scorecard\" report, drawn from Freedom of Information requests, found that £800,000 (6.4%) of City's £12.5m endowment was invested in fossil fuels, and that the institution had not made a public commitment to fossil fuel divestment. It also noted nearly £1m of research funding into renewables since 2001 with just £64k of total funding from fossil fuel companies; and no honorary degrees or board positions held by fossil fuel executives.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nCity University's Bastwick Street Halls of Residence in Islington was the first home of the MasterChef kitchen following its 2005 revival.\n\n"}
{"id": "34268214", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34268214", "title": "Collaboration for AIDS Vaccine Discovery", "text": "Collaboration for AIDS Vaccine Discovery\n\nThe Collaboration for AIDS Vaccine Discovery (CAVD) is an international network of scientists, research organizations, and promoters of HIV vaccine research.\n\nThe CAVD was founded in 2006 when the Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation donated $287 million USD to promote HIV vaccine research. The CAVD itself supports the Global HIV Vaccine Enterprise. The network comprises many individual institutions.\n"}
{"id": "11525261", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11525261", "title": "Dental bonding", "text": "Dental bonding\n\nAdhesive dentistry is a branch of dentistry which deals with adhesion or bonding to the natural substance of teeth, enamel and dentin. It studies the nature and strength of adhesion to dental hard tissues, properties of adhesive materials, causes and mechanisms of failure of the bonds, clinical techniques for bonding and newer applications for bonding such as bonding to the soft tissue. There's also direct composite bonding which uses tooth-colored direct dental composites to repair various tooth damages such as cracks or gaps.\n\nDental bonding is a dental procedure in which a dentist applies a tooth-colored resin material (a durable plastic material) and cures it with visible, blue light. This ultimately \"bonds\" the material to the tooth and improves the overall appearance of teeth. Tooth bonding techniques have various clinical applications including operative dentistry and preventive dentistry as well as cosmetic and pediatric dentistry, prosthodontics, and orthodontics.\n\nAdhesive dentistry began in 1955 with a paper by Dr. Michael Buonocore on the benefits of acid etching. Technologies have changed multiple times since then, with generally recognized generations established in the literature. Dental bonding agents have evolved from no-etch to total-etch (4th- and 5th-generation) to self-etch (6th- and 7th-generation) systems. The evolution of products improved convenience and reduced sensitivity to operator errors. However, the best bonding and longevity was achieved with 4th generation agents (having separate etch, prime, and bond steps).\n\nIrwin Smigel founder and current president of the American Society for Dental Aesthetics and diplomat of the American Board of Aesthetic Dentistry, was one of the first to broaden the usage of bonding by using it to close gaps between teeth, lengthen teeth as well as to re-contour the entire mouth rather than using crowns. Having done more extensive work on the process than any other dentist, Dr. Smigel lectures world-wide on aesthetic dentistry. In 1979 he published a guide to aesthetic dentistry entitled “Dental Health/Dental Beauty.”\n\nIn 2012, new dental universal adhesives are commercialized. The universal adhesives bond to all dental substrates, which include enamel, dentin, metal, porcelain, ceramic and zirconia, with a single application. The term “universal” adhesive is not new. In fact, many early bonding agents were named or described as “universal” adhesives, such as XP Bond-Universal Total-etch Adhesive (Dentsply), One-Step-Universal Dental Adhesive (Bisco). However, there is still not a definition of dental “universal adhesive”. It is highly confusing what the term “universal” means. In 2012, the term “universal adhesive” has several definitions which may include: a)Can be used in total-etch, self-etch, and selective etch techniques; b)Can be used with light-cure, self-cure, and dual-cure materials (without the separate activators); c)Can be used for both direct and indirect substrates; d)Can bond to all dental substrates, such as dentin, enamel, metal, ceramic, porcelain, and zirconia.\n\nBonding of orthodontic brackets to teeth is crucial to enable effective treatment with fixed appliances. There is no clear evidence on which to make a clinical decision of the type of orthodontic adhesive to use. \n\n"}
{"id": "34068001", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34068001", "title": "Ectopic testis", "text": "Ectopic testis\n\nA ectopic testis is a testicle that, although not an undescended testicle, has taken a non-standard path through the body and ended up in an unusual location.\n\nThe positions of the ectopic testis may be: in the lower part of the abdomen, front of thigh, femoral canal, skin of penis or behind the scrotum. The testis is usually developed, and accompanied by an indirect inguinal hernia. It may be divorced from the epididymis which may lie in the scrotum.\n\n"}
{"id": "713529", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=713529", "title": "Elisabeth Kübler-Ross", "text": "Elisabeth Kübler-Ross\n\nElisabeth Kübler-Ross (July 8, 1926 – August 24, 2004) was a Swiss-American psychiatrist, a pioneer in near-death studies and the author of the groundbreaking book \"On Death and Dying\" (1969), where she first discussed her theory of the five stages of grief, also known as the \"Kübler-Ross model\".\n\nShe was a 2007 inductee into the National Women's Hall of Fame. She was the recipient of nineteen honorary degrees and by July 1982 had taught, in her estimation, 125,000 students in death and dying courses in colleges, seminaries, medical schools, hospitals, and social-work institutions. In 1970, she delivered an Ingersoll Lecture at Harvard University on the theme \"On Death and Dying\".\n\nElisabeth Kübler was born on July 8, 1926, in Zürich, Switzerland, one of triplets. Elisabeth was born fifteen minutes before her identical sister Erika. Minutes later came her sister Eva. Her family were Protestant Christians. Her father did not want her to study medicine, but she persisted. Eventually her father took pride in her career. In an interview she stated: \n\nDuring World War II she became involved in refugee relief work in Zürich and later visited Majdanek death camp. She graduated from the University of Zürich medical school in 1957.\n\nIn 1958 she married a fellow medical student from America, Emanuel (\"Manny\") Ross, and moved to the United States. Becoming pregnant disqualified her from a residency in pediatrics, so she took one in psychiatry. After suffering two miscarriages, she had a son, Kenneth, and a daughter, Barbara, in the early 1960s. Her husband requested a divorce in 1979.\n\nKübler-Ross moved to New York in 1958 to work and continued her studies.\n\nAs she began her psychiatric residency, she was appalled by the hospital treatment of patients in the U.S. who were dying. She began giving a series of lectures featuring terminally ill patients, forcing medical students to face people who were dying.\n\nIn 1962 she accepted a position at the University of Colorado School of Medicine. Kübler-Ross completed her training in psychiatry in 1963, and moved to Chicago in 1965. She became an instructor at the University of Chicago's Pritzker School of Medicine. She developed there a series of seminars using interviews with terminal patients, which drew both praise and criticism. She sometimes questioned the practices of traditional psychiatry that she observed. She also undertook 39 months of classical psychoanalysis training in Chicago.\n\nHer extensive work with the dying led to the book \"On Death and Dying\" in 1969. In it, she proposed the now famous Five Stages of Grief as a pattern of adjustment: denial, anger, bargaining, depression, and acceptance. In general, individuals experience most of these stages when faced with their imminent death. The five stages have since been adopted by many as applying to the survivors of a loved one's death, as well.\n\nKübler-Ross encouraged the hospice care movement, believing that euthanasia prevents people from completing their 'unfinished business'.\n\nIn 1977 she persuaded her husband to buy forty acres of land in Escondido, California, near San Diego, where she founded \"Shanti Nilaya\" (Home of Peace). She intended it as a healing center for the dying and their families. She was also a co-founder of the American Holistic Medical Association.\n\nIn the late 1970s, she became interested in out-of-body experiences, mediumship, spiritualism, and other ways of attempting to contact the dead. This led to a scandal connected to the Shanti Nilaya Healing Center, in which she was duped by Jay Barham, founder of the Church of the Facet of the Divinity. Claiming he could channel the spirits of the departed and summon ethereal \"entities\", he encouraged church members to engage in sexual relations with the \"spirits\". He may have hired several women to play the parts of female spirits for this purpose. Kubler-Ross' friend Deanna Edwards attended a service to ascertain whether allegations against Barham were true. He was found to be naked and wearing only a turban when Edwards unexpectedly pulled masking tape off the light switch and flipped on the light.\n\nKübler-Ross also dealt with the phenomenon of near-death experiences. She reported on her interviews for the first time in her book \"On Death and Dying. What the dying have to teach doctors, nurses, clergy, and their own families \"(1969)\n\nOne of her greatest wishes was her plan to build a hospice for infants and children infected with HIV to give them a last home where they could live until their death, inspired by the aid-project of British doctor Cicely Saunders. In 1985 she attempted to do this in Virginia, but local residents feared the possibility of infection and blocked the necessary re-zoning. In 1994, she lost her house and possessions to an arson fire that is suspected to have been set by opponents of her AIDS work.\n\nShe conducted many workshops on AIDS in different parts of the world. In 1990 she moved the Healing Center to her own farm in Head Waters, Virginia, to reduce her extensive traveling.\n\nKübler-Ross suffered a series of strokes in 1995 which left her partially paralyzed on her left side, and the Shanti Nilaya Healing Center closed around that time. She found living in a wheelchair, slowly waiting for death to come, an unbearable suffering, and wished to be able to determine her time of death. In a 2002 interview with \"The Arizona Republic\", she stated that she was ready for death. She died in 2004 at a nursing home in Scottsdale, Arizona, and was buried at the Paradise Memorial Gardens Cemetery.\n\n\n\n\nViewing:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "23454727", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23454727", "title": "Epidemiology of asthma", "text": "Epidemiology of asthma\n\nAs of 2011, ~235 million people worldwide were affected by asthma, and approximately 250,000 people die per year from the disease. Low and middle income countries make up more than 80% of the mortality. Rates vary between countries with prevalences between 1 and 18%. It is more common in developed than developing countries. One thus sees lower rates in Asia, Eastern Europe and Africa. Within developed countries it is more common among those who are economically disadvantaged while in contrast in developing countries it is more common amongst the affluent. The reason for these differences is not well known.\n\nWhile asthma is twice as common in boys as girls, severe asthma occurs at equal rates. In contrast adult women have a higher rate of asthma than men. Asthma is more common in the young than the old.\n\nRates of asthma have increased significantly between the 1960s and 2008 with it being recognized as a major public health problem since the 1970s. Some 9% of US children had asthma in 2001, compared with just 3.6% in 1980. The World Health Organization (WHO) reports that some 10% of the Swiss population have asthma as of 2007, compared with 2% some 25–30 years ago. In the United States the age-adjusted prevalence of asthma increased from 7.3 to 8.2 percent during the years 2001 through 2009\n\nAsthma affects approximately 7% of the population of the United States and causes approximately 4,210 deaths per year. In 2005, asthma affected more than 22 million people, including 6 million children, and accounted for nearly 500,000 hospitalizations that same year. In 2010, asthma accounted for more than one-quarter of admitted emergency department visits in the U.S. among children aged 1–9 years, and it was a frequent diagnosis among children aged 10–17 years. From 2000 through 2010, the rate of pediatric hospital stays for asthma declined from 165 to 130 per 100,000 population, respectively, whereas the rate for adults remained about 119 per 100,000 population.\n\nAsthma prevalence in the U.S. is higher than in most other countries in the world, but varies drastically between ethnic populations. Asthma prevalence is highest in Puerto Ricans, African Americans, Filipinos, Irish Americans, and Native Hawaiians, and lowest in Mexicans and Koreans. Rates of asthma-related hospital admissions in 2010 were more than three times higher among African American children and two times higher for African American adults compared with White and Asian and Pacific Islander people. Also, children who are born in low-income families have higher risk of asthma.\n\nAsthma prevalence also differs between populations of the same ethnicity who are born and live in different places. U.S.-born Mexican populations, for example, have higher asthma rates than non-U.S. born Mexican populations that are living in the U.S. \n\nAsthma affects approximately 5% of the United Kingdom’s population. In England, an estimated 261,400 people were newly diagnosed with asthma in 2005; 5.7 million people had an asthma diagnosis and were prescribed 32.6 million asthma-related prescriptions.\n\n"}
{"id": "35807665", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35807665", "title": "Food Assistance Convention", "text": "Food Assistance Convention\n\nThe Food Assistance Convention is an international treaty relating to food assistance. It was adopted on 25 April 2012 in London. The treaty aims at \"addressing the food and nutritional needs of the most vulnerable populations\" and includes mechanisms for information sharing and registration of commitments made towards such assistance. The treaty entered into force on 1 January 2013.\n\nThe convention is a renegotiated version of the Food Aid Convention, as of 2012 the only legally binding international treaty on food aid. The Food Aid Convention is however only focused on a limited number of food items (expressed in wheat equivalent tons), whereas the Food Assistance Convention is focused on \"nutritious food\" in general and leaves it up to parties to the convention to state commitments in wheat equivalents or in monetary terms.\n\nThe negotiations have taken place in the framework of the present participants of the food aid convention, and there has been criticism that recipient countries and civil society have been left out.\n\nThe convention was opened for signature on 11 June until 31 December 2012 for 34 states as well as the European Union. From 2013, it was opened to accession to all states and \"customs territories\" that did not sign the convention. The convention entered into force on 1 January 2013, as it had been ratified by at least five signatories at that time. As of September 2018, Australia, Austria, Canada, Denmark, European Union, Finland, France, Japan, Korea, Luxembourg, the State of Palestine, Russia, Slovenia, South Korea, Spain, Sweden, Switzerland, and the United States have become parties to the treaty. The states which have signed but not ratified are Bulgaria, Germany, and Portugal.\n\n"}
{"id": "1660162", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1660162", "title": "Group purchasing organization", "text": "Group purchasing organization\n\nIn the United States, a group purchasing organization (GPO) is an entity that is created to leverage the purchasing power of a group of businesses to obtain discounts from vendors based on the collective buying power of the GPO members.\n\nMany GPOs are funded by administrative fees that are paid by the vendors that GPOs oversee. Some GPOs are funded by fees paid by the buying members. Some GPOs are funded by a combination of both of these methods. These fees can be set as a percentage of the purchase or set as an annual flat rate. Some GPOs set mandatory participation levels for their members, while others are completely voluntary. Members participate based on their purchasing needs and their level of confidence in what should be competitive pricing negotiated by their GPOs.\n\nGroup purchasing is used in many industries to purchase raw materials and supplies, but it is common practice in the grocery industry, health care, electronics, industrial manufacturing and agricultural industries. As the electrical industry has started deregulating, it has also become an increasing trend there. Also, in recent years, group purchasing has begun to take root in the nonprofit community. Group purchasing amongst nonprofits is still relatively new, but is quickly becoming common place as nonprofits aim to find ways to reduce overhead expenses. In the healthcare field, GPOs have most commonly been accessed by acute-care organizations, but non-profit Community Clinics and Health Centers throughout the U.S. have also been engaging in group purchasing.\n\nThe first healthcare GPO was established in 1910 by the Hospital Bureau of New York. For many decades, healthcare GPOs grew slowly in number, to only 10 in 1962.\n\nMedicare and Medicaid stimulated growth in the number of GPOs to 40 in 1974. That number tripled between 1974 and 1977. The institution of the Medicare Prospective Payment System (PPS) in 1983 focused greater scrutiny on costs and fostered further rapid GPO expansion. In 1986, Congress granted GPOs in healthcare \"Safe Harbor\" from federal anti-kickback statutes after successful lobbying efforts.\nBy 2007, there were hundreds of healthcare GPOs, \"affiliates\" and cooperatives in the United States that were availing themselves of substantial revenues obtained from vendors in the form of administrative fees, or \"remuneration.\" 96 percent of all acute-care hospitals and 98 percent of all community hospitals held at least one GPO membership. Importantly, 97 percent of all not-for-profit, non-governmental hospitals participated in some form of group purchasing.\n\nWith healthcare costs rising sharply in the early 1980s, the federal government revised Medicare from a system of fee-for-service (FFS) payments to PPS, under which hospitals receive a fixed amount for each patient with a given diagnosis. Other insurers also limited what hospitals could charge. The result was a financial squeeze on hospitals, compelling them to seek new ways to manage their costs.\n\nIn specifically exempting GPOs from the Federal Anti-Kickback Law, many healthcare providers interpreted the act as an encouragement to the expansion of GPOs.\nCongress did not specify any limit on contract administration fees, but required the United States Department of Health and Human Services (HHS) to monitor such fees for possible abuse – particularly with respect to fees in excess of 3.0 percent.\n\nIn 1991, HHS promulgated safe harbor regulations, reflecting Congress’ intent to permit contract administration fees and creating the additional safeguard that GPOs inform members of administrative fees in excess of 3.0 percent. Despite these safeguards, the Government Accounting Office (GAO) published a study in 2002 indicating that GPOs did not always in fact reduce the cost of supplies and equipment for hospitals, but in some cases increased these costs by as much as 37%. Further examining the practices of GPOs, the Federal Trade Commission (FTC) clarified that \"safety zone thresholds do not prevent and should not be appropriately read as preventing antitrust challenges to any of the alleged anticompetitive contracting practices...\" of GPOs.\n\nIn 2002, the Senate Judiciary Committee's Antitrust Subcommittee imposed stricter standards on GPOs in healthcare, requiring the adoption of a Code of Conduct to which GPOs must subscribe.\n\nCritics of GPOs charge that, as long as GPOs receive fees from the vendors they are charged with policing, the industry has anti-competitive contracting potential that should be subjected to further scrutiny and/or regulation.\n\nA vertical GPO assists companies and organizations within a specific industry or market segment.\n\nA healthcare group purchasing organization (GPO) assists in promoting quality healthcare relief and assists diverse providers in effectively managing expenses. A GPO aggregates the purchasing volume of its members for various goods and services and develops contracts with suppliers through which members may buy at group price and terms if they choose to. GPOs typically provide contracted discounts on medical supplies, nutrition, pharmacy and laboratory. Some of the large GPOs have expanded contract portfolios to also offer discounts on office supplies and non-medical related services.\nA GPO's earnings come from an \"Administrative\" fee. GPOs may collect an \"Administrative\" fee up to 3.0% of all sales volumes from the vendors that they negotiate a contract from, upon selling products to their member hospitals. These fees do not influence the prices negotiated. They are used to cover the GPO's operating expenses. If there is a remainder it is distributed back to the GPO owners; thus, GPO owners achieve cost-savings on the goods they choose to buy through group contracts, and also receive distributions back from the GPO. General GPO members may also receive some fee share as part of their member agreement, though this practice is no longer typical; thus the primary benefit to a GPO member is the access to deeply discounted pricing.\n\nGPOs submit that their services allow for improved operating margins for healthcare providers, and that members enjoy value added benefits like clinical support, benchmarking data, supply chain support and comprehensive portfolios of products and services to address specific needs.\n\nGPOs vary in their strategy for negotiating discounts with suppliers - from requiring that its members not join other GPOs (exclusivity) to requiring compliance to awarding single source contracts. As the healthcare industry becomes saturated with GPOs, pricing is one way for GPOs to bring in new members or convince members of another GPO to switch.\n\nA foodservice or grocery GPO focuses exclusively on the $600 billion foodservice marketplace, including food and food-related purchasing for multi-unit foodservice operators, contract negotiation and supply chain services. \nThese negotiations are made with supplier/manufacturing agreements and purchasing contracts. Categories for grocer purchases include: poultry, fresh produce, frozen food products, fresh and frozen meats, candy and snacks, dairy and bakery, dry goods, disposables and beverages.\n\nA manufacturer’s GPO succeeds in solving procurement and sourcing concerns by aggregating the demand for products and services used in the manufacturing and production process and delivering deep savings on raw materials, services and components by issuing rebates, discounts, and preferred pricing to its members. \nThe combined buying power helps manufacturers save money on their purchases and more effectively compete against the largest global manufacturers.\n\nA GPO in the electrical industry attempts to help energy consumers and businesses solve issues with the rising cost of electricity by pooling the electrical demand of multiple consumers, grouping them together, and through this, delivering savings to its members by obtaining more favorable electrical rates. The difference between residential and commercial rates can be quite large in many regions, and are at least 7% cheaper in every US state. The buying power of the resulting groups allows companies and individuals alike to save greatly on their electrical bills.\n\nNon-profit GPOs are similar to regular GPOs, but they are typically made of up a board of non-profit, community-based organizations working together to help lower their costs.\n\nWhereas a vertical GPO assists organizations in specific industries, such as health care, food service, legal, dairy, and industrial manufacturing, a horizontal GPO assists companies across a broad spectrum of industries.\n\nA horizontal indirect spend GPO succeeds in reducing procurement costs by aggregating the demand for non-strategic, or indirect cost supplies and services used by a broad horizontal market spectrum of member client organizations by consolidating purchasing power and establishing contracts to achieve preferred pricing, terms, and service standards.\n\nThe resulting combined buying power helps the usually mid-size and larger member client organizations save money on their purchases of categories such as temporary labor services, office products, safety supplies, office equipment, packaging supplies, uniform & laundry services, pest control, and expedited parcel delivery. The consolidation of purchasing effort with the GPO also allows member clients savings from reduced staffing overhead costs. According to an analysis by SpendMatters, from an adoption perspective, 15-20% of the Fortune 1000 currently use buying consortiums and 85% of the time, they’re seeing 10%+ of savings in the categories in which they put through a consortium model.\n\nThe suppliers to this type of GPO offer preferred pricing, terms, and service standards because they experience lower overall selling expenses and the increased volume usually associated with the addition of a single very large customer.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1976739", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1976739", "title": "Health effect", "text": "Health effect\n\nHealth effects (or health impacts) are changes in health resulting from exposure to a source. Health effects are an important consideration in many areas, such as hygiene, pollution studies, occupational safety and health, nutrition and health sciences in general. Some of the major environmental sources of health effects are air pollution, water pollution, soil contamination, noise pollution and over-illumination. \n\nA non-stochastic or deterministic health effect has a severity that is dependent on dose and is believed to have a threshold level for which no effect is seen. Stochastic health effects occur by chance, generally occurring without a threshold level of dose, whose probability is proportional to the dose and whose severity is independent of the dose, such as cancer and genetic effects. Occasionally, lack of exposure to certain effectors has detrimental consequences on an individual's health. Examples of such effectors include sunlight and exercise.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "59069462", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=59069462", "title": "Health in Bermuda", "text": "Health in Bermuda\n\nKim Wilson is the minister of health in Bermuda.\n\nThe Bermuda Hospitals Board operates the King Edward VII Memorial Hospital, located in Paget Parish, and the Mid-Atlantic Wellness Institute, located in Devonshire Parish. Boston's Lahey Medical Center has an established visiting specialists program on the island which provides Bermudians and expats with access to specialists regularly on the island. There were about 6,000 hospital admissions, 30,000 emergency department attendances and 6,300 outpatient procedures in 2017.\n\nUnlike the other territories that still remain under British rule, Bermuda does not have national healthcare. Employers must provide a healthcare plan and pay for up to 50% of the cost for each employee. Healthcare is a mandatory requirement and is expensive, even with the help provided by employers, though no more expensive than that which an employee in the US would typically pay for healthcare when obtained through their employer and the coverage typically far exceeds that which one may have through their employer in the US. There are only a few approved healthcare providers that offer insurance to Bermudians. In 2016 these were the Bermudan government's Health Insurance Department, three other approved licensed health insurance companies, and three approved health insurance schemes (provided by the Bermudan government for its employees and by two banks).\n\nThe Bermuda Medical Specialties Group practice in Hamilton, established in 2018 is one of the largest healthcare centres on the island, with facilities to provide some services which were previously only available in the hospital.\n\nThere are no paramedics on the island. The Bermuda Hospitals Board says that they were not vital in Bermuda because of its small size.\nNurse practitioners on the island, of which there are not many, can be granted authority to write prescriptions “under the authority of a medical practitioner”.\n\nThe Bermuda Health Council produces a fee schedule for providers of Standard Health Benefit and advises the government on health issues.\n\nBermuda uses the ICD-9 diagnostic coding system. It plans, however, to switch to the more comprehensive ICD-10 system to align with the US (which switched in 2015), since Bermudan residents most commonly obtain overseas healthcare there. Bermuda does not have Stark laws, nor do they have self-referral guidelines or anti-kickback laws. The lack of regulation in healthcare, specifically with billing and reimbursement, makes healthcare in Bermuda quite lucrative for physicians and owners of medical/healthcare practices.\n"}
{"id": "1932500", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1932500", "title": "HeightMax", "text": "HeightMax\n\nHeightMax Concentrate and HeightMax Plus were purported height-enhancing pills for children and young adults marketed by Sunny Health Nutrition Technology & Products, Inc. The Federal Trade Commission filed a complaint against the company and its owner, leading to the product being discontinued and a fine paid.\n\nOn or about November 21, 2006, the Federal Trade Commission (FTC) filed a complaint against Sunny Health Nutrition Technology & Products, Inc. and its owner, Sunny Sia, charging the defendants with making false and unsubstantiated claims for HeightMax Concentrate and HeightMax Plus, as well as for two other supplements, Liposan Ultra Chitosan Fat Blocker and Osteo-Vite. The FTC complaint charged that claims for the pills were unsubstantiated or false and that the defendants invented William Thomson, a supposed expert who appeared in the advertisements. According to the complaint, the advertisements for HeightMax Concentrate and HeightMax Plus misrepresented that:\n\n\nThe FTC complaint also alleged that the defendants made unsubstantiated or false claims for Liposan Ultra Chitosan Fat Blocker, a weight loss supplement, and Osteo-Vite, marketed to older consumers for bone-building.\n\nTo settle the charges, defendants Sunny Health Nutrition Technology & Products, Inc. and its owner, Sunny Sia, agreed to pay $375,000 in consumer redress. The settlement also held the defendants potentially liable for $1.9 million in the event that they misrepresented their finances. The order to settle the FTC’s charges requires that claims for any dietary supplement, food, or drug must be true, non-misleading, and substantiated. In addition, it prohibits the defendants from misrepresenting endorsements, including the existence or expertise of any endorser.\n\nOn November 30, 2006 the Honorable Susan C. Bucklew, Federal District Court Judge, signed a Stipulated Judgment requiring defendants to pay $375,000 based on the accuracy of sworn financial statements. The Judgment included an avalanche clause, requiring payment of full redress for $1.9 million if the financial statements were not accurate.\n\nOn April 24, 2007, the FTC announced that the defendants shall be required to pay the full $1.9 Million after hidden assets were discovered. In the settlement, the $1.6 million balance of the judgment had been suspended based on sworn financial disclosure documents showing inability to pay. Shortly after that settlement, the FTC discovered that the defendants kept at least $1.8 million in an undisclosed PayPal account. The FTC immediately obtained a temporary restraining order to freeze the funds, which was granted on December 8, 2006. The defendants were ordered to pay the entire $1.9 million.\n\nJudge Bucklew’s new order, signed on February 22, 2007, and agreed to by the defendants, required them to pay the entire $1.9 million, using the funds in the account at PayPal and other sources if necessary. The conduct prohibitions from the previously entered order remain unchanged. The FTC set up a refund program for HeightMax purchasers, using the money collected.\n"}
{"id": "54220610", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54220610", "title": "Immigrant paradox", "text": "Immigrant paradox\n\nThe immigrant paradox is that recent immigrants often outperform more established immigrants and non-immigrants on a number of health-, education-, and conduct- or crime-related outcomes, despite the numerous barriers they face to successful social integration.\n\nAccording to the UN, the number of first-generation immigrants worldwide is 244 million. \nThese large-scale population changes worldwide have led many scholars, across fields, to study the acculturation and adjustment of immigrants to their new homes. Specifically, researchers have examined immigrant experiences as they pertain to educational attainment, mental and physical health, and conduct/crime.\n\nResearchers have tried to understand why later generations seem to perform less well than their forebears. They have found that it can be explained by non-optimal methodology and differences in the way generations are modified by the host culture.\n\nImmigrants face many challenges as a result of migration, stemming from the fact that the nations and communities they settle in are culturally unfamiliar. As a result, they find themselves in an unwelcoming environment lacking in the infrastructure necessary to ensure a simple transition. Additionally, because general attitudes of the host society are often hostile and xenophobic, immigrants are doubly vulnerable. Discrimination and prejudice are common and dictate daily experiences with individuals and organizations within the host society. For example, although cultural sensitivity training is increasingly a required component of medical education, immigrants have historically faced and continue to face discrimination in the health care system. An added barrier to equitable access to health care comes as a result of many immigrants' limited English proficiency. Many health care facilities have inadequate interpretation services, and culturally sensitive health care providers are also scarce. What's more, many immigrants are uninsured, making the financial burdens of adequate health care insurmountable.  \n\nMany immigrants also settle in \"de facto\" segregated, low-income neighborhoods and ethnic enclaves, especially during periods of high immigration. Although the benefits of living in such communities include increased social support, positive in-group relations, and the virtual elimination of cultural and language barriers in daily interaction, often such neighborhoods are targets of institutional violence, such as stop and frisk. Further, due to public education funding policies in the United States, funds are often allocated to schools based on neighborhood property taxes. As a result, many immigrant children attend schools that are understaffed, underfunded, and lacking in resources in comparison to the schools of their more affluent peers. This is known as the opportunity gap, by which low-income and marginalized groups have disproportionately low access to the opportunities and conveniences afforded to societally privileged groups, resulting in group-wide disparities in academic achievement, wages, and political power. In direct relation to these obstacles, immigrants also face challenges in the workplace, including poor and dangerous working conditions, unemployment, and the employment of highly skilled individuals in low-skill jobs.\n\nTo compound all of these issues, the burden of acculturation is an added stressor. Navigating the divide between the heritage culture and the culture of the new society is difficult, as the traditions, beliefs, and norms of these two cultures are often in direct conflict. This challenge is only compounded by the other obstacles immigrants are faced with, and has deleterious consequences for mental health, particularly because many migrants and refugees are already susceptible to elevated levels of psychopathology, due to the trauma associated with interpersonal conflict, acculturative stress and/or political unrest in their countries of origin.\n\nIn light of these obstacles, it is expected that recent immigrants would have outcomes inferior to those of their native-born or non-immigrant peers.\n\nDespite the numerous challenges facing early generation immigrants, research on the mental and physical health, educational, and conduct-related outcomes of these populations has demonstrated a paradoxical pattern.\n\nResearch with Filipino Americans has demonstrated that first-generation immigrants had lower levels of depressive symptoms than subsequent, US-born generations. First-generation Mexican immigrants to the United States were found to have lower incidences of mood disorders and substance use than their bicultural or subsequent generation counterparts. Similarly, immigrant youth in general are less likely to engage in risky behaviours and substance use, including alcohol and marijuana consumption. Other research with Latino populations shows that immigrants are less likely to suffer from any mental disorder than non-Latino whites. Research with Asian populations has supported this apparent paradox, with first-generation Asian Americans reporting lower levels of lifetime symptoms of depression and anxiety than US-born Asian Americans. One study inclusive of immigrants to the United States from Asia, Africa, Latin America, and Europe found that immigrants, regardless of place of origin, exhibited less violent and nonviolent antisocial behaviour than US-born individuals.\n\nThese findings have been replicated outside of the United States, with Canadian researchers finding that foreign born youth are less likely to display emotional and behavioural problems than their native-born peers, despite experiencing similar levels of poverty. Research conducted in the Netherlands has also found evidence of an immigrant paradox, with first- and second-generation Muslim immigrants reporting fewer psychological problems and higher self-esteem than Dutch nationals.\n\nThe immigrant paradox also extends to physical health, with recent immigrants having better outcomes than US-born individuals. One study of several thousand health records in Southern California found Asian and Latina women had better perinatal outcomes than both white and Black women. Specifically, Asian and Latina women had lower infant mortality, higher birth weight, fewer Caesarean sections, fewer medical diagnoses during delivery, and shorter hospitalizations. This finding has also been replicated in Spain, with immigrant mothers, barring those of Sub-Saharan African origin, having a lower frequency of low birth weight than native Spanish mothers.\n\nWith respect to overweight and obesity, it has been found that first-generation Mexican American women had healthier diets than both non-Latino whites and second-generation Mexican American women. Further, second-generation women had the poorest dietary intake, consuming even smaller amounts of necessary nutrients than non-Latina white women. US-born immigrants (i.e., second-generation immigrants, and subsequent generations) have also been found to engage in more overweight-related behaviours, such as poor diet, smoking, and little physical activity, in comparison to foreign-born immigrants. For Cubans and Puerto Ricans, increased length of stay in the United States was also associated with increased presence of overweight. These findings were replicated in a later study, which showed that with increased length of stay in the United States, immigrant health levels decreased significantly, approaching the levels of US-born individuals. Although immigrant men and women entered the US with lower BMIs than their US-born counterparts, within 10 to 15 years of arrival, there was no significant difference between the BMIs of immigrants versus US-borns. These findings apply to Asian American immigrants as well, with second- and third-generation Asian American adolescents being 100% more likely to be obese relative to their first-generation peers.\n\nAmong Latino populations, first- and second-generation Latino adolescents report high levels of effort in school, with effort declining across generations. They also place a greater value upon education, with the same downhill trend being observed. First-generation Mexican American adolescents, specifically, have more positive attitudes towards academics and skip school less than subsequent generations and non-Latino US-born Whites. They are also more involved in high school STEM coursework and have higher GPAs. With respect to Asian Americans, first-generation Asian American youth have more positive attitudes towards academics and skip school less than subsequent generations and non-Latino US-born whites. Further, first- and second-generation Asian American youth report higher levels of effort in school. Other differences in educational outcomes include superior reading achievement for first- and second-generation immigrant children, in comparison to their third-generation counterparts. First-generation Latino, Asian, and African youth have greater overall educational attainment and are less likely to drop out of high school than subsequent generations of each community. There are also differences in susceptibility to stereotype threat across generations, with second-generation Afro-Caribbean youth more at risk than first-generation youth.\n\nThere is also evidence that the immigrant paradox extends to differential outcomes in conduct and/or crime. For example, rates of intimate partner violence are lower among non-Latino first-generation immigrant families. Immigrants are also less likely than non-immigrants to engage in many kinds of lifetime criminal and violent antisocial activity, including drunk driving, speeding, purposeful physical violence, and weapon use, with first-generation immigrants the least likely to engage in criminal behaviour, followed by second-generation immigrants, then third-generation. These effects can be seen at the neighborhood level, with increases in first-generation immigrants resulting in decreases in neighborhood-wide violence over time. Further, among undocumented immigrants, drug-related crime is even less likely than it is among non-immigrants.\n\nWith respect to criminality among adolescents, first-, one-and-a-half-, and second-generation Asian American, African American, and Caribbean American adolescents are all less likely to engage in illegal or delinquent behaviour than non-Latino US-born White adolescents. Immigrant neighborhood concentration was also negatively correlated with recidivism for Latino youth.\n\nThere is a general consensus that refugees are at a particular disadvantage when it comes to successful resettlement in the host society, as the same challenges voluntary immigrants face are generally aggravated for refugees. However, some research has found evidence of a paradox, with refugees at least three times less likely to engage in substance use than non-immigrants. Other research has found refugees to Denmark to have a lower likelihood of stroke and breast cancer compared to Danish natives, but higher likelihood of lung cancer, HIV/AIDS, and tuberculosis. Notably, levels of all of these diseases among refugee populations eventually converged to the same levels as Danish natives with increased length of residency.\n\nThere may also be an immigrant paradox for the perinatal outcomes of refugees, with the majority of refugee women studied having a lower crude birth rate, infant mortality rate, maternal mortality rate, and percentage of low birth weight than women in both their host country and their country of origin.\n\nThere is some doubt among scholars as to whether or not the phenomenon actually exists, with some findings conflicting with the body of research on immigrant outcomes. For example, among Asian Americans, limited English proficiency was consistently associated with worse physical and mental health outcomes. In addition to language proficiency, age at time of immigration is also an important factor, with older first-generation Mexican American youth more likely to drop out of school than their US-born and younger, first-generation counterparts. In further support of this conclusion, data from the CPS shows that immigrating as a teenager is associated with completing less schooling than immigrating before or after adolescence. CPS data also shows that second-generation immigrants completed more schooling than both foreign-born immigrants and non-immigrant US-born individuals.\n\nIn international research on the phenomenon, Europe's SHARE data demonstrated no evidence of a paradox, with immigrants having poorer health outcomes than native Europeans. A study in Canada found that recent and non-European immigrant women were more predisposed to developing postpartum depression than non-immigrant Canadians.\n\nThe most common hypothesis for the immigrant paradox considers recent and first-generation immigrants' comparative access to cultural and social protective factors. Despite being confronted with the many challenges arising from immigration and acculturation, first-generation immigrants have greater social and cultural capital than subsequent generations. These include stronger social networks and highly adaptive cultural practices concerning religion, diet, substance use, and parenting style. Researchers also posit that first-generation immigrants are more likely to place high importance upon academic success due to fear of limited employment opportunities in the host society. These protective factors result in superior lifetime health, educational, financial, and conduct-related outcomes. Additionally, by having access to multiple cultural frameworks, recent immigrants are able to code-switch between frameworks or engage in downward social comparison as methods of self-protection.\n\nIn comparison, subsequent generations may not have access to such social and cultural capital, having been socialized into the norms and expectations of the host society (i.e., consuming more processed and unhealthy foods, having a smaller network of same-ethnicity peers, increased substance use). Further, intergenerational conflict is more likely between first-generation immigrants and their second-generation children due to differing cultural practices, with parents being accustomed to the norms of their culture of origin and children having been socialized into the norms of the host society. This type of conflict has been linked to poorer outcomes for children.\n\nA third cost of acculturation is linked to immigrant children's cultural socialization. A strong sense of ethnic identity and pride in one's cultural heritage is generally understood to be protective from negative mental health outcomes. However, with increased length of stay in the host society, subsequent generations are likely to report decreasing levels of involvement in culturally important traditions and practices. With this comes decreasing strength of ethnic identity. Second-generation immigrants are also less likely to endorse meritocratic views, which is similarly correlated with decreasing strength of ethnic identity. These attributes are all associated with poorer mental health.\n\nFirst-generation immigrants often settle in ethnic enclaves, which carry a host of advantages. Residents of these neighborhoods have access to a strong and supportive network of same-ethnicity peers and potential access to culturally sensitive healthcare providers that may allow for increased financial gain and better physical and mental health outcomes. Ethnic enclaves also eliminate the challenges associated with language barriers, with residents often sharing linguistic similarity.\n\nAnother common explanation for the immigrant paradox is that the vast majority of superior outcomes among early generations of immigrants can be accounted for by a selection effect. Proponents of this hypothesis argue that only the most psychologically and physically healthy individuals migrate from their country of origin, and therefore have superior outcomes to begin with.\n\nMuch of the literature on the immigrant paradox in mental health relies on self-report data. This may be problematic in that certain populations may differentially interpret questions in ways that are meaningful and result in significant disparities between groups. Similarly, many measures view mental health solely through a Western lens, accounting only for the types of symptoms commonly expressed in Western societies. This may result in the underreporting of poor mental health among non-Western populations.\n\nAnother issue in research on immigrants is the grouping of highly diverse ethnic groups together in monolithic racial categories, namely the pan-ethnic \"Asian\" and \"Latino\" categories. Much of the research on Latinos and the immigrant paradox has been conducted with Mexican American populations, ignoring the fact that there are 32 other countries that fall under the Latin American label. Similarly, much research on Asian Americans has been conducted with East Asian populations, ignoring the differential treatment and experiences of South and Southeast Asians, and the different refugee status of individuals across Asia (examples include Lhotshampa refugees, who are of South Asian heritage, and Cambodian refugees, who are of Southeast Asian heritage). Such groupings are problematic in that they erase the large diversity in socioeconomic status, educational background, and historical trauma of each of these ethnic groups – factors which all contribute to the consequent positive or negative outcomes of immigrants.\n\nCarola Suárez-Orozco, Ph.D. calls for increased research on the psychology of immigrants paying attention to differences in refugee status, documentation status, gender, and ethnic group (in lieu of using pan-ethnic groupings). Research must also consider seasonal migrants, the differential racialization of ethnic groups, and the role of English proficiency on educational and health outcomes.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "32693079", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32693079", "title": "International Aging Research Portfolio", "text": "International Aging Research Portfolio\n\nInternational Aging Research Portfolio (IARP) is a non-profit, open-access knowledge management system incorporating grants, publications, conferences in natural and social & behavioral sciences. In addition to the advanced search and visual trend analysis tools the system includes a directory of research projects classified into categories related to aging research. The system uses automatic classification algorithms with elements of machine learning to assign research projects to the relevant categories. The directory is curated by many expert category editors and science advisory board members. The chair of the science advisory board is Dr. Charles Cantor.\n\nAging research is a multidisciplinary field spanning many areas of natural and social and behavioral sciences and the research data is widely dispersed. Popular resources like Pubmed and Google Scholar provide access to historic as well as most recent scientific abstracts and full text publications. However, few resources exist that incorporate international databases of the scientific publications, scientific grant abstracts and clinical trials databases.\n\nGrant abstracts are usually published by the funding organizations and precede publications in peer-reviewed literature. Some of the experiments described in grant abstracts fail or do not result in peer-reviewed publications. To prevent redundancy and promote scientific cooperation it is important to browse through all available grant information worldwide to see if there are similar projects being funded.\n\nThe IARP database integrates information on research grants, peer-reviewed publications, and issued patent applications from multiple sources. Additionally, the database uses flexible project classification mechanisms and tools for analyzing project associations and trends. This system enables scientists to search the centralized project database, to classify and categorize aging projects, and to analyze the funding aspects across multiple research disciplines. The IARP is designed to provide improved allocation and prioritization of scarce research funding, to reduce project overlap and improve scientific collaboration thereby accelerating scientific and medical progress in a rapidly growing area of research.\n\nThe IARP system aggregates grant data from many sources including the US National Institutes of Health (NIH), European Commission (EC), Canadian Institutes of Health Research, US National Science Foundation, Australian National Health and Medical Health Council and publication abstract data through a license of MEDLINE database. The database is searchable and the results can be presented as charts and graphs for trends analysis. One of the main features of the IARP system is automatic and manual classification of the research projects into a structured directory. The IARP science advisory board and volunteer expert category editors classify the projects from the database into relevant categories. These manually classified projects become training sets for the automatic classification algorithms with elements of machine learning. \nThe IARP system is highly modular and portable and may be used as a platform for developing other knowledge management systems for aging research.\n\nThe International Aging Research Portfolio (IARP) includes historic grant data from the National Institutes of Health(NIH), European Commission(EC), NSF, Canadian and Australian research councils and many other sources. It also contains MEDLINE article abstracts under a license from the National Library of Medicine.\nThe IARP volunteer development team works directly with the publication offices and regularly updates the database either automatically or by parsing the data mailed on physical medium.\n\nSimple searches on IARP can be carried out by entering key aspects of a subject into search window.\n\nIARP translates this initial search formulation and automatically adds field names, Boolean operators, and enhancing the search formulation significantly, in particular by routinely combining (using the OR operator) text words.\n\nis translated as\n\nAdvanced Project Search allows users to limit their search criteria, ranging from the date of creation and research and funding mechanism to specific projects. In addition to the description, each research project contains specific information about the funding organization, recipient organization and the Principal Investigator(s). Moreover, it links the current project with other similar projects and financial mechanisms.\n\nTo use the advanced search features effectively, the user must poses some knowledge of the research area and use relevant and specific keywords and limits. The form allows users to specify multiple values for accurate data retrieval.\n\n[Keywords]. Users can use Boolean operators and Mask for finding information in project description and title fields. \nSearch query examples:\n\n[Research Areas]. Users can limit their searches by selecting desired research areas from the category tree.\n\n[Theories Of Aging]. Users can select multiple values from a list of Theories Of Aging.\n\nIn addition, users can limit their search by:\n\nFiscal Years, Project Number, Principal Investigators, Project Start and End dates, Recipient and Funding Organizations, Funding type.\n\nTrends Analysis Chart & Tools is a collection of tools for visualizing the project data as diagrams, charts and comparative tables. The interface allows users to create two-dimensional charts comparing research funding by year, institution, university, principal investigator, region and category.\n\nRepresenting a comprehensive analysis of data stored in the system (useful for understanding the content of the database by total number of projects). Displays the current state of the database is stored on publications and projects in detail : total, classified, classified manually, classified as aging, unclassified. Displays the top 50 active, completed projects by total funding, the top countries, US states, investigators, funding bodies and recipient organizations, also by total funding.\n\nThe system also incorporates tools like the Grant Matchmaker, Who is Who and Funding Organizations and Biotechnology Events and Webcasts that are currently in various stages of development. The intent of these tools is to provide the research community with the ability to identify organizations funding similar research projects, identify possible collaborators and find conference relevant to their research interests.\n\nAutomatic project classification is used to identify projects related to aging research within the large data sets and to classify projects into relevant semantic groups. The system utilizes two classification algorithms with elements of machine learning: Support Vector Machine SVM and Recurrent-Neural-Network-Based Boolean Factor Analysis (BFA).\nSince 2014 the SVM algorithm was modified to facilitate for multilabel classification of incompletely-labelled data sets where few labels assigned by the IARP experts are present. This allowed for improved classification accuracy.\n\nAs current automatic classification algorithms are limited and require each category to have relatively large training sets, the system relies heavily on manual classification by expert category editors. The SAB and Category Editor administrative interface enables SAB members, institute directors and laboratory heads to curate the top-level categories and delegate the management of lower-level categories to graduate students.\n\nIARP has the ability to automatically identify related and similar projects in database using an algorithm analysis of project abstracts, patents, and publications. This type of advanced project analysis will potentially aid in circumventing project overlap and redundant funding of similar programs while also highlighting knowledge gaps for potential funding.\n\nThe FundingTrends project allows for a simple keyword search of millions of biomedical projects supported by major research funding organizations worldwide. It then draws the amount of funding for each year for the projects containing the keywords.\n\nThe Aging.CC project allows for a simple keyword search of millions of biomedical projects supported by major research funding organizations worldwide.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "30392774", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30392774", "title": "Jonathan Berek", "text": "Jonathan Berek\n\nJonathan Berek is Professor and Chair of the Department of Obstetrics and Gynecology at Stanford University School of Medicine, the Chief of Obstetrics and Gynecology at Stanford Hospital & Clinics, and the Director of the Stanford Women’s Cancer Center at the Stanford Cancer Center. He is the Group Chair and Principal Investigator of the Cooperative Ovarian Cancer Group (COGI).\n\nSubspecialties: Gynecologic Oncology\n\n"}
{"id": "8055200", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8055200", "title": "Leo Soriano", "text": "Leo Soriano\n\nLeo A. Soriano (born 10 December 1950) is a Bishop of the United Methodist Church, elected in 2000 in the Philippines.\n\nLeo is the second son of Benjamin Soriano, a Methodist Pastor, and Purificacion Aranda, a teacher. He has two brothers, Henry and Bliss and a sister, Phoebe. He was born and spent his early childhood in Binalonan, Pangasinan. His family moved to Cagayan de Oro where he spent his teenage years. Growing up in Mindanao, he became an active member of the Methodist Youth Fellowship. His early involvement in church activities would later influence him to entin different college activities and organizations including the ROTC, Glee Club, and university organs. He finished his Bachelor of Science degree with flying colors. His Bachelor of Science degree inclined him to pursue a degree in medicine but Leo has another calling. He instead went to Manila and studied in seminary. He met his wife, Dania, while in seminary. They married in 1977. They have four children: Hesed, Nezer, Omar and Ronald.\n\nHe started his ministry after graduating cum laude from the Union Theological Seminary in the Philippines. While raising a family, Leo studied and earned a doctor of medicine degree from the Davao Medical School Foundation. Despite the many opportunities of earning big as a doctor, Leo chose to answer God's call to bring the good news and fullness of life to the deprived, underserved and underprivileged. He was appointed as \"Doctor in Mission\" for the Medical Mobile Clinic of the Mindanao Annual Conference. This position led him to work in the underserved and far-flung villages and mountains in the war-torn area of Mindanao and Visayas. He served as a missionary doctor from 1989 until the late 1990s. Leo faithfully fulfilled his call despite the danger of being caught in the crossfire between the rebels and military and the difficulty of travelling three days by horseback riding, crossing rivers by bamboo barge and climbing mountains by foot. He reached out to the hundreds of ethnic groups and underserved communities in the provinces of Cotabato, Davao, Leyte, Samar, Sultan Kudarat, Zamboanga and even in Palawan. When Mt. Pinatubo erupted in 1992, he was there serving the ethnic groups (Aetas) of Zambales. He pioneered in giving medical care to these people who have not seen a doctor in their whole life. He genuinely served the underprivileged for more than a decade without the fanfare of the media and away from the limelight. He held that position until the project funded by the U.M. General Board of Global Ministries changed it to a Community-based Primary Health Care Program.\n\nLeo Soriano was elected as Bishop on the 5th ballot during the 2000 Philippines Central Conference held in Cabanatuan City, Philippines. The overwhelming support and his early election in the 5th Ballot was phenomenal and unprecedented in the history of the United Methodist Church in the Philippines. His election was an indication of the Filipino Methodists desire of change in their church politics. The personal background of Leo, having family roots from the North of the country yet living and representing the South, became a symbol of the desire of the Church to be all inclusive and intentional in representing equally all ethnic groups of the country.\n\nHe served as the Resident Bishop of the Davao episcopal area, one of three episcopal areas of the Philippines, for 12 years (2000-2012). His offices were in the \"Spottswood Methodist Center\" in Kidapawan City. In 2004 he was appointed to a four-year position as one of four voting members of the General Council on Finance and Administration of the United Methodist Church. He has served as a member of the UMC \"Council of Bishops\", the UMC \"General Council on Ministries\", and the cross denominational organisations Christian Conference of Asia and National Council of Churches in the Philippines.\n\nHe has acted as a spokesperson for UMC Philippines during the December 2003 typhoons and Southern Leyte mudslides and signing a Bible sent to President George W. Bush as congratulations following his re-election, a 200-year-old UMC tradition.\n\nOn November 24, 2008, Bishop Soriano was re-elected for a third term as Bishop of the United Methodist Church and was reassigned to Davao Episcopal Area.\n\nBishop Soriano retired from active service in December 2012 during the Philippine Central Conference of the UMC held in Bayombong, Nueva Vizcaya. As he was to retire during that conference, he delivered the Episcopal Address as was the tradition in the UMC. He was given a tribute and a retirement service during the said conference.\n\nBishop Soriano teaches at the Southern Philippines Methodist Colleges in Kidapawan, North Cotabato and the Bishop Han Theological Seminary in Bukidnon. He mentors aspiring pastors from different Christian traditions and denominations on practical ministry. Using his medical background and pastoral experience, he designed a special course with his son Nezer entitle Intro to Health Ministry that teaches young pastors and students about Wesley's emphasis on holistic ministry to the physical body, soul and the environment. Bishop Soriano also teaches Intro to Old Testament.\n\nBishop Soriano is one of the Filipino bishops that support an autonomous, affiliated relationship with the United Methodist Church. His election is an overwhelming indication of the desire of the Filipino Methodist to be led by leaders who will move the Filipino United Methodist Church a step closer to becoming autonomous. Bishop Soriano have been actively working in the grassroots level to listen to the voices of the local churches and hear their sentiments about autonomy, church growth, and other church issues.\n\nBeing the Bishop of Mindanao, Bishop Soriano has been advocating for a harmonious living relationship among Christians and Muslims. The Bishop's office of the Davao Episcopal Area has been actively involved in the Christian-Muslim Dialogue that seeks to find ways and means to achieve peace in Mindanao.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "61787", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=61787", "title": "List of diseases (Q)", "text": "List of diseases (Q)\n\nThis is a list of diseases starting with the letter \"Q\".\n\n"}
{"id": "40105185", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40105185", "title": "Long Term 2 Enhanced Surface Water Treatment Rule", "text": "Long Term 2 Enhanced Surface Water Treatment Rule\n\nThe Long Term 2 Enhanced Surface Water Treatment Rule (\"LT2ESWTR\" or simply \"LT2\") is a modification of the 1973 Safe Drinking Water Act that was adopted on March 6, 2006 by the United States Environmental Protection Agency. The rule put in place more stringent treatment requirements for surface drinking water, for the stated purpose of controlling spread of the microorganism Cryptosporidium.\n\nDrafting of the LT2 rule began following the 1993 Milwaukee Cryptosporidiosis outbreak, in which it is believed that municipal sewage infected with Cryptosporidium was accidentally discharged into the city of Milwaukee, Wisconsin's drinking water.\n\nThe LT2 rule has been criticized for mandating costly public works projects (such as coverage of open-air reservoirs) that may be unnecessary and/or unlikely to address the kind of problem that was responsible for the Milwaukee incident. As stated by William R. MacKenzie, M.D., a Centers for Disease Control epidemiologist who served as the Epidemic Intelligence Officer on the Milwaukee case, \"Standards for water treatment facilities were about to be implemented throughout the nation; but even those would not have stopped the Milwaukee outbreak.\"\n\nCritics have alleged that LT2's mandates may have been aimed more at appeasing the corporate public-works-engineering industry, which lobbied the Environmental Protection Agency during the LT2 drafting process, and which has benefited from hundreds of millions of dollars in ensuing public works contracts.\n\nIn response to growing criticism that the rule unfairly burdens public water systems that are not exposed to municipal sewage, EPA Administrator Lisa Jackson announced on August 19, 2011, that the EPA would reconsider the scientific validity of LT2's reservoir coverage and treatment requirements during Periodic Retrospective Review of Regulations in 2016.\n"}
{"id": "18347415", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18347415", "title": "MTV Staying Alive", "text": "MTV Staying Alive\n\nStaying Alive is an MTV international initiative to encourage HIV prevention, promote safer lifestyle choices and fight the stigma and discrimination which fuels the HIV epidemic. Staying Alive is now the world’s largest HIV mass media awareness and prevention campaign. It produces TV programming in the form of concerts, documentaries, public service announcements, TV film, film competitions and others. It also boasts a 13 language website with celebrity content talking about safe sex.\n\nStaying Alive’s aim is to reduce HIV infections among young people globally. It does this by using entertainment to bring across vital safe sex information so that young people are empowered to make safer sexual and lifestyle decisions.\n\n• To raise awareness and knowledge about HIV/AIDS and safer sex skills for young people.\n<br>\n• To fight the stigma and discrimination associated with HIV/AIDS.\n<br>\n• To empower young people to take concrete action to protect themselves and others against HIV/AIDS.\n<br>\n• To engage other businesses, media and organisations to form their own response to HIV/AIDS. This includes broadcasting or using Staying Alive material rights free, at no cost.\n\nStaying Alive currently reaches 64% of the world’s TV households, and 90% of the top 50 AIDS affected countries. Staying Alive’s distribution reach extends to all but thirteen countries in the world. Staying Alive does this, not only through MTV’s extensive global reach, but also with its rights free strategy, enabling all broadcasters around the world to air Staying Alive content at no cost.\n\nStaying Alive began in 1998 as a one off award-winning documentary, of the same name, about six young people from around the world and how their lives were affected by HIV and AIDS and hosted by George Michael.\nIn 2002, Staying Alive expanded into an ongoing global multi media campaign that provides targeted information about HIV and AIDS using a wide range of interventions that include programming, advocacy and grant-making. Staying Alive is now the world’s leading media response to HIV and AIDS, developing widely recognised cutting edge products as part of its comprehensive approach.\nIn 2005, Staying Alive launched the Staying Alive Foundation to provide small grants to young people who are responding to the multiple threats of HIV, through prevention and create enabling environments for HIV+ people in their communities.\n\nThe 2005 evaluation of Staying Alive found that the campaign resulted in significantly more interpersonal communication about HIV/AIDS amongst those who were exposed to the campaign and that this in turn had a positive effect on social norms. More young people exposed to the campaign felt it was important to use a condom, discussed HIV with a sexual partner and reported getting tested for HIV.\n\nIn 2005 the Staying Alive Foundation was launched. The Staying Alive Foundation is a public charity registered in the US and UK and supported by MTV. Twice yearly, the Foundation presents the Staying Alive Awards: small grants that support innovative projects by youth-led organisations in schools, youth centres, and clubs using radio, TV, print, on-line and personal interactions that reach at-risk youth and protect them from the multiple threats posed by HIV and AIDS.\nThe Foundation's mandate to support individuals fighting AIDS on the frontlines is an unusual grant-making strategy that is showing extraordinary results as more and more young Award winners become HIV-prevention leaders in their communities.\nIn 2008 the R&B singer-songwriter Kelly Rowland was appointed as the global Ambassador for the MTV Staying Alive Foundation. In June 2008, Kelly Rowland visited SAF projects in Kenya, Tanzania and South Africa.\n\nThe multimedia campaign includes full-length programming such as documentaries about young people living with, affected by and responding to HIV; concert featuring some of the biggest stars of the music scene; discussion programmes; public service announcements and more.\nAll Staying Alive programming is offered rights free and at no cost to any TV broadcaster that wants to use it. As a result, Staying Alive regularly reaches more than 90% of the top 50 AIDS-affected countries.\n\nIn 2005 Staying Alive produced its first film: Transit. Shot in Los Angeles, Mexico City, St Petersburg, and Nairobi, it deals with the complexities of sexual relationships in a time of HIV and globalisation. Transit raised issues of self–esteem, violence in relationships, drugs, multiple partners, condom use and HIV testing. The film was accompanied by a teaching kit and discussion guide used to discuss some of the issues raised in the story. Transit has been translated into 16 languages.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "59025725", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=59025725", "title": "Mandakini Takhellambam", "text": "Mandakini Takhellambam\n\nMandakini Takhellambam popularly known as Mandakini, is a female playback singer and philanthropic worker for blind and orphaned people in the state of Manipur, India. She was born in the village of Ningthoukhong, in Bishnupur district.\n\nShe is a contestant on the popular music reality show, Sa Re Ga Ma Pa in 2018.\n\n"}
{"id": "58353", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58353", "title": "Medicare (United States)", "text": "Medicare (United States)\n\nMedicare is a single-payer national health insurance program in the United States, begun in 1966 under the Social Security Administration and now administered by the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services of the U.S. federal government. It provides health insurance for Americans aged 65 and older who have worked and paid into the system through the payroll tax. It also provides health insurance to younger people with some disability status as determined by the Social Security Administration, as well as people with end stage renal disease and amyotrophic lateral sclerosis. Medicare is funded by a combination of a payroll tax, premiums and surtaxes from beneficiaries, and general revenue.\n\nIn 2015, Medicare provided health insurance for over 55 million—46 million people age 65 and older and 9 million younger people. In January 2018, new Medicare (Red, White and Blue) cards were issued to all beneficiaries. On average, Medicare covers about half of the healthcare charges for those enrolled. The enrollees must then cover their remaining costs either with supplemental insurance, separate insurance, or out of pocket. Out-of-pocket costs can include deductibles and co-pays; the costs of uncovered services—such as for long-term, dental, hearing, and vision care—and supplemental insurance premiums.\n\nMedicare is further divided into parts A and B—Medicare Part A covers hospital (inpatient, formally admitted only), skilled nursing (only after being formally admitted for three days and not for custodial care), and hospice services; Part B covers outpatient services including some providers' services while inpatient at a hospital. Part D covers self-administered prescription drugs. Part C is an alternative called Managed Medicare by the Trustees that allows patients to choose plans with at least the same benefits as Parts A and B (but most often more), often the benefits of Part D, and always an annual out of pocket spend limit which A and B lack; the beneficiary must enroll in Parts A and B first before signing up for Part C.\n\nThe name \"Medicare\" was originally given to a program providing medical care for families of people serving in the military as part of the Dependents' Medical Care Act, which was passed in 1956. President Dwight D. Eisenhower held the first White House Conference on Aging in January 1961, in which creating a health care program for social security beneficiaries was proposed. In July 1965, under the leadership of President Lyndon Johnson, Congress enacted Medicare under Title XVIII of the Social Security Act to provide health insurance to people age 65 and older, regardless of income or medical history. Johnson signed the bill into law on July 30, 1965 at the Harry S. Truman Presidential Library in Independence, Missouri. Former President Harry S. Truman and his wife, former First Lady Bess Truman became the first recipients of the program. Before Medicare was created, approximately 60% of people over the age of 65 had health insurance, with coverage often unavailable or unaffordable to many others, as older adults paid more than three times as much for health insurance as younger people. Many of this latter group (about 20% of the total in 2015) became \"dual eligible\" for both Medicare and Medicaid with passing the law. In 1966, Medicare spurred the racial integration of thousands of waiting rooms, hospital floors, and physician practices by making payments to health care providers conditional on desegregation.\n\nMedicare has been operated for a half century and, during that time, has undergone several changes. Since 1965, the program's provisions have expanded to include benefits for speech, physical, and chiropractic therapy in 1972. Medicare added the option of payments to health maintenance organizations (HMO) in the 1980s. As the years progressed, Congress expanded Medicare eligibility to younger people with permanent disabilities and receive Social Security Disability Insurance (SSDI) payments and to those with end-stage renal disease (ESRD). The association with HMOs begun in the 1980s was formalized under President Bill Clinton in 1997 as Medicare Part C (although not all Part C health plans sponsors have to be HMOs, about 75% are). In 2003, under President George W. Bush, a Medicare program for covering almost all self administered prescription drugs was passed (and went into effect in 2006) as Medicare Part D (previously and still, professionally administered drugs such as chemotherapy but even the annual flu shot are covered under Part B).\n\nThe government added hospice benefits to aid elderly people on a temporary basis in 1982, and made this permanent in 1984. Congress further expanded Medicare in 2001 to cover younger people with amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS, or Lou Gehrig's disease).\n\nThe Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services (CMS), a component of the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services (HHS), administers Medicare, Medicaid, the Children's Health Insurance Program (CHIP), the Clinical Laboratory Improvement Amendments (CLIA), and parts of the Affordable Care Act (ACA) (\"Obamacare\"). Along with the Departments of Labor and Treasury, the CMS also implements the insurance reform provisions of the Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996 (HIPAA) and most aspects of the Affordable Care Act of 2010 as amended. The Social Security Administration (SSA) is responsible for determining Medicare eligibility, eligibility for and payment of Extra Help/Low Income Subsidy payments related to Part D Medicare, and collecting some premium payments for the Medicare program.\n\nThe Chief Actuary of the CMS must provide accounting information and cost-projections to the Medicare Board of Trustees to assist them in assessing the program's financial health. The Board is required by law to issue annual reports on the financial status of the Medicare Trust Funds, and those reports are required to contain a statement of actuarial opinion by the Chief Actuary.\n\nSince the Medicare program began, the CMS (that was not always the name of the responsible bureaucracy) has contracted with private insurance companies to operate as intermediaries between the government and medical providers to administer Part A and Part B benefits. Contracted processes include claims and payment processing, call center services, clinician enrollment, and fraud investigation. Beginning in 1997 and 2005, respectively, these, along with other insurance companies and other companies or organizations (such as integrated health delivery systems or unions), also began administering Part C and Part D plans.\n\nThe Specialty Society Relative Value Scale Update Committee (or Relative Value Update Committee; RUC), composed of physicians associated with the American Medical Association, advises the government about pay standards for Medicare patient procedures performed by doctors and other professionals under Medicare Part B. A similar but different CMS system determines the rates paid for acute care and other hospitals—including skilled nursing facilities—under Medicare Part A.\n\nMedicare has several sources of financing.\n\nPart A's inpatient admitted hospital and skilled nursing coverage is largely funded by revenue from a 2.9% payroll tax levied on employers and workers (each pay 1.45%). Until December 31, 1993, the law provided a maximum amount of compensation on which the Medicare tax could be imposed annually, in the same way that the Social Security tax works in the US. Beginning on January 1, 1994, the compensation limit was removed. Self-employed individuals must pay the entire 2.9% tax on self-employed net earnings (because they are both employee and employer), but they may deduct half of the tax from the income in calculating income tax. Beginning in 2013, the rate of Part A tax on earned income exceeding US$200,000 for individuals (US$250,000 for married couples filing jointly) rose to 3.8%, in order to pay part of the cost of the subsidies mandated by the Affordable Care Act.\n\nParts B and D are partially funded by premiums paid by Medicare enrollees and general fund revenue. In 2006, a surtax was added to Part B premium for higher-income seniors to partially fund Part D. In the Affordable Care Act's legislation of 2010, another surtax was then added to Part D premium for higher-income seniors to partially fund the Affordable Care Act and the number of Part B beneficiaries subject to the 2006 surtax was doubled, also partially to fund PPACA.\n\nParts A and B/D use separate trust funds to receive and disburse the funds mentioned above. Part C uses these two trust funds as well in a proportion determined by the CMS reflecting how Part C beneficiaries are fully on Parts A and B of Medicare, but how their medical needs are paid for per capita rather than \"fee for service\" (FFS).\n\nIn 2015, Medicare spending accounted for about 15% of total US federal spending. This share is projected to exceed 17% by 2020.\n\nRetirement of the Baby Boom generation — which by 2030 is projected to increase enrollment to more than 80 million as the number of workers per enrollee declines from 3.7 to 2.4 — and rising overall health care costs in the nation pose substantial financial challenges to the program. Medicare spending is projected to increase from $523 billion in 2010 to just over $1 trillion by 2022. Baby-boomers' health is also an important factor: 20% have five or more chronic conditions, which will add to the future cost of health care. In response to these financial challenges, Congress made substantial cuts to future payouts to providers as part of PPACA in 2010 and the Medicare Access and CHIP Reauthorization Act of 2015 (MACRA) and policymakers have offered many additional competing proposals to reduce Medicare costs further.\n\nNearly one in three dollars spent on Medicare flows through one of several cost-reduction programs. Cost reduction is influenced by factors including reduction in inappropriate and unnecessary care by evaluating evidence-based practices as well as reducing the amount of unnecessary, duplicative, and inappropriate care. Cost reduction may also be effected by reducing medical errors, investment in healthcare information technology, improving transparency of cost and quality data, increasing administrative efficiency, and by developing both clinical/non-clinical guidelines and quality standards.\n\nIn general, all persons 65 years of age or older who have been legal residents of the United States for at least five years are eligible for Medicare. People with disabilities under 65 may also be eligible if they receive Social Security Disability Insurance (SSDI) benefits. Specific medical conditions may also help people become eligible to enroll in Medicare.\n\nPeople qualify for Medicare coverage, and Medicare Part A premiums are entirely waived, if the following circumstances apply:\n\nThose who are 65 and older who choose to enroll in Part A Medicare must pay a monthly premium to remain enrolled in Medicare Part A if they or their spouse have not paid the qualifying Medicare payroll taxes.\n\nPeople with disabilities who receive SSDI are eligible for Medicare while they continue to receive SSDI payments; they lose eligibility for Medicare based on disability if they stop receiving SSDI. The 24-month exclusion means that people who become disabled must wait two years before receiving government medical insurance, unless they have one of the listed diseases. The 24-month period is measured from the date that an individual is determined to be eligible for SSDI payments, not necessarily when the first payment is actually received. Many new SSDI recipients receive \"back\" disability pay, covering a period that usually begins six months from the start of disability and ending with the first monthly SSDI payment.\n\nSome beneficiaries are dual-eligible. This means they qualify for both Medicare and Medicaid. In some states for those making below a certain income, Medicaid will pay the beneficiaries' Part B premium for them (most beneficiaries have worked long enough and have no Part A premium), as well as some of their out of pocket medical and hospital expenses.\n\nMedicare has four parts: Part A is Hospital Insurance. Part B is Medical Insurance. Medicare Part D covers many prescription drugs, though some are covered by Part B. In general, the distinction is based on whether or not the drugs are self-administered. Part C health plans, the most popular of which are branded Medicare Advantage, are another way for Original Medicare (Part A and B) beneficiaries to receive their Part A, B and D benefits. All Medicare benefits are subject to medical necessity.\n\nThe original program included Parts A and B. Part-C-like plans have existed as demonstration projects in Medicare since the early 1980s but the Part was formalized by 1997 legislation. Part D was introduced January 1, 2006.\n\nPart A covers inpatient hospital stays where the beneficiary has been formally admitted to the hospital, including semi-private room, food, and tests. As of January 1, 2018, Medicare Part A has an inpatient hospital deductible of $1340, coinsurance per day as $335 after 61 days confinement within one \"spell of illness\", coinsurance for \"lifetime reserve days\" (essentially, days 91-150) of $670 per day, and coinsurance in an Skilled Nursing Facility (following a medically necessary hospital confinement of 3 night in row or more) for days 21-100 of $167.50 per day (up to 20 days of SNF confinement have no co-pay) These amounts increase or decrease yearly on 1st day of the year.\n\nThe maximum length of stay that Medicare Part A covers in a hospital inpatient stay or series of stays is typically 90 days. The first 60 days would be paid by Medicare in full, except one copay (also and more commonly referred to as a \"deductible\") at the beginning of the 60 days of $1340 as of 2018. Days 61–90 require a co-payment of $335 per day as of 2018. The beneficiary is also allocated \"lifetime reserve days\" that can be used after 90 days. These lifetime reserve days require a copayment of $670 per day as of 2018, and the beneficiary can only use a total of 60 of these days throughout their lifetime. A new pool of 90 hospital days, with new copays of $1340 in 2018 and $335 per day for days 61–90, starts only after the beneficiary has 60 days continuously with no payment from Medicare for hospital or Skilled Nursing Facility confinement.\n\nSome \"hospital services\" can be done as inpatient services, which would be reimbursed under Part A; or as outpatient services, which would be reimbursed, not under Part A, but under Part B instead. The \"Two-Midnight Rule\" decides which is which. In August 2013, the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services announced a final rule concerning eligibility for hospital inpatient services effective October 1, 2013. Under the new rule, if a physician admits a Medicare beneficiary as an inpatient with an expectation that the patient will require hospital care that \"crosses two midnights,\" Medicare Part A payment is \"generally appropriate.\" However, if it is anticipated that the patient will require hospital care for less than two midnights, Medicare Part A payment is generally not appropriate; payment such as is approved will be paid under Part B. The time a patient spends in the hospital before an inpatient admission is formally ordered is considered outpatient time. But, hospitals and physicians can take into consideration the pre-inpatient admission time when determining if a patient's care will reasonably be expected to cross two midnights to be covered under Part A. In addition to deciding which trust fund is used to pay for these various outpatient vs. inpatient charges, the number of days for which a person is formally considered an admitted patient affects eligibility for Part A skilled nursing services.\n\nMedicare penalizes hospitals for readmissions. After making initial payments for hospital stays, Medicare will take back from the hospital these payments, plus a penalty of 4 to 18 times the initial payment, if an above-average number of patients from the hospital are readmitted within 30 days. These readmission penalties apply after some of the most common treatments: pneumonia, heart failure, heart attack, COPD, knee replacement, hip replacement. A study of 18 states conducted by the Agency for Healthcare Research and Quality (AHRQ) found that 1.8 million Medicare patients aged 65 and older were readmitted within 30 days of an initial hospital stay in 2011; the conditions with the highest readmission rates were congestive heart failure, septicemia, pneumonia, and chronic obstructive pulmonary disease and bronchiectasis.\n\nThe highest penalties on hospitals are charged after knee or hip replacements, $265,000 per excess readmission. The goals are to encourage better post-hospital care and more referrals to hospice and end-of-life care in lieu of treatment, while the effect is also to reduce coverage in hospitals that treat poor and frail patients. The total penalties for above-average readmissions in 2013 are $280 million, for 7,000 excess readmissions, or $40,000 for each readmission above the US average rate.\n\nPart A fully covers brief stays for rehabilitation or convalescence in a skilled nursing facility and up to 100 days per medical necessity with a co-pay if certain criteria are met:\n\n\nThe first 20 days would be paid for in full by Medicare with the remaining 80 days requiring a co-payment of $167.50 per day as of 2018. Many insurance group retiree, Medigap and Part C insurance plans have a provision for additional coverage of skilled nursing care in the policies they sell. If a beneficiary uses some portion of their Part A benefit and then goes at least 60 days without receiving facility-based skilled services, the 90-day hospital clock and 100-day nursing home clock are reset and the person qualifies for new benefit periods.\n\nHospice benefits are also provided under Part A of Medicare for terminally ill persons with less than six months to live, as determined by the patient's physician. The terminally ill person must sign a statement that hospice care has been chosen over other Medicare-covered benefits, (e.g. assisted living or hospital care). Treatment provided includes pharmaceutical products for symptom control and pain relief as well as other services not otherwise covered by Medicare such as grief counseling. Hospice is covered 100% with no co-pay or deductible by Medicare Part A except that patients are responsible for a copay for outpatient drugs and respite care, if needed.\n\nPart B medical insurance helps pay for some services and products not covered by Part A, generally on an outpatient basis (but also when on an unadmitted observation status in a hospital). Part B is optional. It is often deferred if the beneficiary or his/her spouse is still working and has group health coverage through that employer. There is a lifetime penalty (10% per year on the premium) imposed for not enrolling in Part B when first eligible or if not covered by programs of the Veterans Health Administration.\n\nPart B coverage begins once a patient meets his or her deductible ($183 for 2017), then typically Medicare covers 80% of the RUC-set rate for approved services, while the remaining 20% is the responsibility of the patient, either directly or indirectly by private group retiree or Medigap insurance.\n\nPart B coverage includes out patient physician services, visiting nurse, and other services such as x-rays, laboratory and diagnostic tests, influenza and pneumonia vaccinations, blood transfusions, renal dialysis, outpatient hospital procedures, limited ambulance transportation, immunosuppressive drugs for organ transplant recipients, chemotherapy, hormonal treatments such as Lupron, and other outpatient medical treatments administered in a doctor's office. It also includes chiropractic care. Medication administration is covered under Part B if it is administered by the physician during an office visit.\n\nPart B also helps with durable medical equipment (DME), including canes, walkers, lift chairs, wheelchairs, and mobility scooters for those with mobility impairments. Prosthetic devices such as artificial limbs and breast prosthesis following mastectomy, as well as one pair of eyeglasses following cataract surgery, and oxygen for home use is also covered.\n\nComplex rules control Part B benefits, and periodically issued advisories describe coverage criteria. On the national level these advisories are issued by CMS, and are known as National Coverage Determinations (NCD). Local Coverage Determinations (LCD) apply within the multi-state area managed by a specific regional Medicare Part B contractor, and Local Medical Review Policies (LMRP) were superseded by LCDs in 2003. Coverage information is also located in the CMS Internet-Only Manuals (IOM), the Code of Federal Regulations (CFR), the Social Security Act, and the Federal Register.\n\nThe Monthly Premium for Part B for 2016 is $121.80 per month but anyone on Social Security in 2015 is \"held harmless\" (from the fact that Social Security did not rise in 2016) and pays only the $104.90 premium withheld monthly in 2015, with income-weighted additional surtaxes for those with incomes more than $85,000 per annum.\n\nWith the passage of the Balanced Budget Act of 1997, Medicare beneficiaries were formally given the option to receive their Original Medicare benefits through capitated health insurance Part C plans, instead of through the Original fee for service Medicare payment system. Many had previously had that option via a series of demonstration projects that dated back to the early 1980s. These Part C plans were initially known as \"Medicare+Choice\". As of the Medicare Modernization Act of 2003, most \"Medicare+Choice\" plans were re-branded as \"Medicare Advantage\" (MA) plans (though MA is a government term and might not be visible to the Part C health plan beneficiary). Other plan types, such as 1876 Cost plans, are also available in limited areas of the country. Cost plans are not Medicare Advantage plans and are not capitated. Instead, beneficiaries keep their Original Medicare benefits while their sponsor administers their Part A and Part B benefits. The sponsor of a Part C plan could be an integrated health delivery system, a union, a religious organization, an insurance company or other type of organization.\n\nPublic Part C Medicare Advantage and other Part C health plans are required to offer coverage that meets or exceeds the standards set by Original Medicare but they do not have to cover every benefit in the same way. After approval by the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services, if a Part C plan chooses to pay less than Original Medicare for some benefits, such as Skilled Nursing Facility care, the savings may be passed along to consumers by offering even lower co-payments for doctor visits.\n\nOriginal \"fee-for-service\" Medicare Parts A and B have a standard benefit package that covers medically necessary care as described in the sections above that members can receive from nearly any hospital or doctor in the country (if that doctor or hospital accepts Medicare). Original Medicare beneficiaries who choose to enroll in a Part C Medicare Advantage health plan instead give up none of their rights as an Original Medicare beneficiary, receive the same standard benefits—as a minimum—as provided in Original Medicare, and get an annual out of pocket (OOP) upper spending limit not included in Original Medicare. However they must typically use only a select network of providers except in emergencies, typically restricted to the area surrounding their legal residence (which can vary from tens to over 100 miles depending on county). Most Part C plans are traditional health maintenance organizations (HMOs) that require the patient to have a primary care physician, though others are preferred provider organizations (which typically means the provider restrictions are not as confining as with an HMO), and a few are actually fee for service hybrids.\n\nPublic Part C Medicare Advantage health plan members typically usually also pay a monthly premium in addition to the Medicare Part B premium to cover items not covered by traditional Medicare (Parts A & B), such as the OOP limit, self-administered prescription drugs, dental care, vision care, annual physicals, coverage outside the United States, and even gym or health club memberships as well as—and probably most importantly—reduce the 20% co-pays and high deductibles associated with Original Medicare. But in some situations the benefits are more limited (but they can never be more limited than Original Medicare and must always include an OOP limit) and there is no premium. In some cases, the sponsor even rebates part or all of the Part B premium, though these types of Part C plans are becoming rare.\n\nBefore 2003 Part C plans tended to be suburban HMOs tied to major nearby teaching hospitals that cost the government the same as or even 5% less on average than it cost to cover the medical needs of a comparable beneficiary on Original Medicare. The 2003-law payment framework/bidding/rebate formulas overcompensated some Part C plans by 7 percent (2009) on average nationally compared to what Original Medicare beneficiaries cost per person on average nationally that year and as much as 5 percent (2016) less nationally in other years (see any recent year's Medicare Trustees Report, Table II.B.1). The MedPAC group found in one year the comparative difference for \"like beneficiaries\" (not all beneficiaries as described in the first sentence) was as high as 14% and have tended to average about 2% higher. The word like in the previous sentence is key. The intention of both the 1997 and 2003 law was that the differences between fee for service and capitated fee beneficiaries would reach parity over time.\n\nThe 2003 payment formulas succeeded in increasing the percentage of rural and inner city poor that could take advantage of the OOP limit and lower co-pays and deductibles—as well as the coordinated medical care—associated with Part C plans. In practice however, one set of Medicare beneficiaries received more benefits than others. The differences caused by the 2003-law payment formulas were almost completely eliminated by PPACA and have been almost totally phased out according to the 2018 MedPAC annual report, March 2018. One remaining special-payment-formula program—designed primarily for unions wishing to sponsor a Part C plan—is being phased out beginning in 2017. In 2013 and since, on average a Part C beneficiary cost the Medicare Trust Funds 2%-5% less than a beneficiary on traditional fee for service Medicare, completely reversing the situation in 2006-2009 right after implementation of the 2003 law and restoring the capitated fee vs fee for service funding balance to its original intended parity level.\n\nEnrollment in public Part C health plans, including Medicare Advantage plans, grew from about 10% of total enrollment in 2005 to about 35% in 2018. Almost all Medicare beneficiaries have access to at least two public Medicare Part C plans; most have access to three or more.\n\nMedicare Part D went into effect on January 1, 2006. Anyone with Part A or B is eligible for Part D, which covers mostly self-administered drugs. It was made possible by the passage of the Medicare Modernization Act of 2003. To receive this benefit, a person with Medicare must enroll in a stand-alone Prescription Drug Plan (PDP) or Medicare Advantage plan with integrated prescription drug coverage (MA-PD). These plans are approved and regulated by the Medicare program, but are actually designed and administered by private health insurance companies and pharmacy benefit managers. Unlike Original Medicare (Part A and B), Part D coverage is not standardized (though it is highly regulated by the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services). Plans choose which drugs they wish to cover (but must cover at least two drugs in 148 different categories and cover all or \"substantially all\" drugs in the following protected classes of drugs: anti-cancer; anti-psychotic; anti-convulsant, anti-depressants, immuno-suppressant, and HIV and AIDS drugs). The plans can also specify with CMS approval at what level (or tier) they wish to cover it, and are encouraged to use step therapy. Some drugs are excluded from coverage altogether and Part D plans that cover excluded drugs are not allowed to pass those costs on to Medicare, and plans are required to repay CMS if they are found to have billed Medicare in these cases.\n\nUnder the 2003 law that created Medicare Part D, the Social Security Administration offers an Extra Help program to lower-income seniors such that they have almost no drug costs; in addition approximately 25 states offer additional assistance on top of Part D. It should be noted again for beneficiaries who are dual-eligible (Medicare and Medicaid eligible) Medicaid may pay for drugs not covered by Part D of Medicare. Most of this aid to lower-income seniors was available to them through other programs before Part D was implemented.\n\nNo part of Medicare pays for all of a beneficiary's covered medical costs and many costs and services are not covered at all. The program contains premiums, deductibles and coinsurance, which the covered individual must pay out-of-pocket. A study published by the Kaiser Family Foundation in 2008 found the Fee-for-Service Medicare benefit package was less generous than either the typical large employer preferred provider organization plan or the Federal Employees Health Benefits Program Standard Option. Some people may qualify to have other governmental programs (such as Medicaid) pay premiums and some or all of the costs associated with Medicare.\n\nMost Medicare enrollees do not pay a monthly Part A premium, because they (or a spouse) have had 40 or more 3-month quarters in which they paid Federal Insurance Contributions Act taxes. The benefit is the same no matter how much or how little the beneficiary paid as long as the minimum number of quarters is reached. Medicare-eligible persons who do not have 40 or more quarters of Medicare-covered employment may buy into Part A for an annual adjusted monthly premium of:\n\nMost Medicare Part B enrollees pay an insurance premium for this coverage; the standard Part B premium for 2013 through 2015 was $104.90 – $335.70 per month. The premium increased to over $120 a month in 2016 but only for those not on Social Security in 2015. A new income-based premium surtax schema has been in effect since 2007, wherein Part B premiums are higher for beneficiaries with incomes exceeding $85,000 for individuals or $170,000 for married couples. Depending on the extent to which beneficiary earnings exceed the base income, these higher Part B premiums are $139.90, $199.80, $259.70, or $319.70 for 2012, with the highest premium paid by individuals earning more than $214,000, or married couples earning more than $428,000.\n\nMedicare Part B premiums are commonly deducted automatically from beneficiaries' monthly Social Security checks. They can also be paid quarterly via bill sent directly to beneficiaries. This alternative is becoming more common because whereas the eligibility age for Medicare has remained at 65 per the 1965 legislation, the so-called Full Retirement Age for Social Security has been increased to 66 and will go even higher over time. Therefore, many people delay collecting Social Security and have to pay their Part B premium directly.\n\nPart C plans may or may not charge premiums (almost all do), depending on the plans' designs as approved by the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services. Part D premiums vary widely based on the benefit level.\n\nPart A – For each benefit period, a beneficiary pays an annually adjusted:\n\nPart B – After beneficiaries meet the yearly deductible of $183.00 for 2017, they will be required to pay a co-insurance of 20% of the Medicare-approved amount for all services covered by Part B with the exception of most lab services, which are covered at 100%—and outpatient mental health, which is currently (2010–2011) covered at 55% (45% copay). The copay for outpatient mental health, which started at 50%, is gradually decreasing over several years until it matches the 20% required for other services. They are also required to pay an excess charge of 15% for services rendered by physicians who do not accept assignment.\n\nThe deductibles, co-pays, and coinsurance charges for Part C and D plans vary from plan to plan. All Part C plans include an annual out of pocket (OOP) upper spend limit. Original Medicare does not include an OOP limit.\n\nOf the Medicare beneficiaries who are not dual eligible for both Medicare (around 20%) and Medicaid or that do not receive supplemental insurance via a former employer (40%) or a public Part C Medicare Advantage health plan (about 30%), almost all elect to purchase a type of private supplemental insurance coverage, called a Medigap plan (20%), to help fill in the financial holes in Original Medicare (Part A and B). Note that the percentages add up to over 100% because many beneficiaries have more than one type of supplement. These Medigap insurance policies are standardized by CMS, but are sold and administered by private companies. Some Medigap policies sold before 2006 may include coverage for prescription drugs. Medigap policies sold after the introduction of Medicare Part D on January 1, 2006 are prohibited from covering drugs. Medicare regulations prohibit a Medicare beneficiary from being sold both a public Part C Medicare Advantage health plan and a private Medigap Policy. As with public Part C health plans, private Medigap policies are only available to beneficiaries who are already signed up for benefits from Original Medicare Part A and Part B. These policies are regulated by state insurance departments rather than the federal government though CMS outlines what the various Medigap plans must cover at a minimum. Therefore, the types and prices of Medigap policies vary widely from state to state and the degree of underwriting, open enrollment and guaranteed issue also varies widely from state to state.\n\nAs of 2016, 11 policies are currently sold—though few are available in all states, and some are not available at all in Massachusetts, Minnesota and Wisconsin Medicare Supplement Plans are standardized with a base and a series of riders.. These are Plan A, Plan B, Plan C, Plan D, Plan F, High Deductible Plan F, Plan G, Plan K, Plan L, Plan M, and Plan N. Cost is usually the only difference between Medigap policies with the same letter sold by different insurance companies. Unlike Medicare Advantage Plans, Medicare Supplement Plans have no networks, and any provider who accepts Medicare must also accept the Medicare Supplement Plan.\n\nAll insurance companies that sell Medigap policies are required to make Plan A available, and if they offer any other policies, they must also make either Plan C or Plan F available as well, though Plan F is scheduled to sunset in the year 2020. Anyone who currently has a Plan F may keep it.\n\nMedicare contracts with regional insurance companies to process over one billion fee-for-service claims per year. In 2008, Medicare accounted for 13% ($386 billion) of the federal budget. In 2016 it is projected to account for close to 15% ($683 billion) of the total expenditures. For the decade 2010–2019 Medicare is projected to cost 6.4 trillion dollars.\n\nFor institutional care, such as hospital and nursing home care, Medicare uses prospective payment systems. In a prospective payment system, the health care institution receives a set amount of money for each episode of care provided to a patient, regardless of the actual amount of care. The actual allotment of funds is based on a list of diagnosis-related groups (DRG). The actual amount depends on the primary diagnosis that is actually made at the hospital. There are some issues surrounding Medicare's use of DRGs because if the patient uses less care, the hospital gets to keep the remainder. This, in theory, should balance the costs for the hospital. However, if the patient uses more care, then the hospital has to cover its own losses. This results in the issue of \"upcoding,\" when a physician makes a more severe diagnosis to hedge against accidental costs.\n\nPayment for physician services under Medicare has evolved since the program was created in 1965. Initially, Medicare compensated physicians based on the physician's charges, and allowed physicians to bill Medicare beneficiaries the amount in excess of Medicare's reimbursement. In 1975, annual increases in physician fees were limited by the Medicare Economic Index (MEI). The MEI was designed to measure changes in costs of physician's time and operating expenses, adjusted for changes in physician productivity. From 1984 to 1991, the yearly change in fees was determined by legislation. This was done because physician fees were rising faster than projected.\n\nThe Omnibus Budget Reconciliation Act of 1989 made several changes to physician payments under Medicare. Firstly, it introduced the Medicare Fee Schedule, which took effect in 1992. Secondly, it limited the amount Medicare non-providers could balance bill Medicare beneficiaries. Thirdly, it introduced the Medicare Volume Performance Standards (MVPS) as a way to control costs.\n\nOn January 1, 1992, Medicare introduced the Medicare Fee Schedule (MFS), a list of about 7,000 services that can be billed for. Each service is priced within the Resource-Based Relative Value Scale (RBRVS) with three Relative Value Units (RVUs) values largely determining the price. The three RVUs for a procedure are each geographically weighted and the weighted RVU value is multiplied by a global Conversion Factor (CF), yielding a price in dollars. The RVUs themselves are largely decided by a private group of 29 (mostly specialist) physicians—the American Medical Association's Specialty Society Relative Value Scale Update Committee (RUC).\n\nFrom 1992 to 1997, adjustments to physician payments were adjusted using the MEI and the MVPS, which essentially tried to compensate for the increasing volume of services provided by physicians by decreasing their reimbursement per service.\n\nIn 1998, Congress replaced the VPS with the Sustainable Growth Rate (SGR). This was done because of highly variable payment rates under the MVPS. The SGR attempts to control spending by setting yearly and cumulative spending targets. If actual spending for a given year exceeds the spending target for that year, reimbursement rates are adjusted downward by decreasing the Conversion Factor (CF) for RBRVS RVUs.\n\nIn 2002, payment rates were cut by 4.8%. In 2003, payment rates were scheduled to be reduced by 4.4%. However, Congress boosted the cumulative SGR target in the Consolidated Appropriation Resolution of 2003 (P.L. 108-7), allowing payments for physician services to rise 1.6%. In 2004 and 2005, payment rates were again scheduled to be reduced. The Medicare Modernization Act (P.L. 108-173) increased payments 1.5% for those two years.\n\nIn 2006, the SGR mechanism was scheduled to decrease physician payments by 4.4%. (This number results from a 7% decrease in physician payments times a 2.8% inflation adjustment increase.) Congress overrode this decrease in the Deficit Reduction Act (P.L. 109-362), and held physician payments in 2006 at their 2005 levels. Similarly, another congressional act held 2007 payments at their 2006 levels, and HR 6331 held 2008 physician payments to their 2007 levels, and provided for a 1.1% increase in physician payments in 2009. Without further continuing congressional intervention, the SGR is expected to decrease physician payments from 25% to 35% over the next several years.\n\nMFS has been criticized for not paying doctors enough because of the low conversion factor. By adjustments to the MFS conversion factor, it is possible to make global adjustments in payments to all doctors.\n\nThe SGR was the subject of possible reform legislation again in 2014. On March 14, 2014, the United States House of Representatives passed the SGR Repeal and Medicare Provider Payment Modernization Act of 2014 (H.R. 4015; 113th Congress), a bill that would have replaced the (SGR) formula with new systems for establishing those payment rates. However, the bill would pay for these changes by delaying the Affordable Care Act's individual mandate requirement, a proposal that was very unpopular with Democrats. The SGR was expected to cause Medicare reimbursement cuts of 24 percent on April 1, 2014, if a solution to reform or delay the SGR was not found. This led to another bill, the Protecting Access to Medicare Act of 2014 (H.R. 4302; 113th Congress), which would delay those cuts until March 2015. This bill was also controversial. The American Medical Association and other medical groups opposed it, asking Congress to provide a permanent solution instead of just another delay.\n\nThe SGR process was replaced by new rules as of the passage of MACRA in 2015.\n\nThere are two ways for providers to be reimbursed in Medicare. \"Participating\" providers accept \"assignment,\" which means that they accept Medicare's approved rate for their services as payment (typically 80% from Medicare and 20% from the beneficiary). Some non participating doctors do not take assignment, but they also treat Medicare enrollees and are authorized to balance bill no more than a small fixed amount above Medicare's approved rate. A minority of doctors are \"private contractors,\" which means they opt out of Medicare and refuse to accept Medicare payments altogether. These doctors are required to inform patients that they will be liable for the full cost of their services out-of-pocket in advance of treatment.\n\nWhile the majority of providers accept Medicare assignments, (97 percent for some specialties), and most physicians still accept at least some new Medicare patients, that number is in decline. While 80% of physicians in the Texas Medical Association accepted new Medicare patients in 2000, only 60% were doing so by 2012. A study published in 2012 concluded that the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services (CMS) relies on the recommendations of an American Medical Association advisory panel. The study led by Dr. Miriam J. Laugesen, of Columbia Mailman School of Public Health, and colleagues at UCLA and the University of Illinois, shows that for services provided between 1994 and 2010, CMS agreed with 87.4% of the recommendations of the committee, known as RUC or the Relative Value Update Committee.\n\nChemotherapy and other medications dispensed in a physician's office are reimbursed according to the Average Sales Price, a number computed by taking the total dollar sales of a drug as the numerator and the number of units sold nationwide as the denominator. The current reimbursement formula is known as \"ASP+6\" since it reimburses physicians at 106% of the ASP of drugs. Pharmaceutical company discounts and rebates are included in the calculation of ASP, and tend to reduce it. In addition, Medicare pays 80% of ASP+6, which is the equivalent of 84.8% of the actual average cost of the drug. Some patients have supplemental insurance or can afford the co-pay. Large numbers do not. This leaves the payment to physicians for most of the drugs in an \"underwater\" state. ASP+6 superseded Average Wholesale Price in 2005, after a 2003 front-page New York Times article drew attention to the inaccuracies of Average Wholesale Price calculations.\n\nThis procedure is scheduled to change dramatically in 2017 under a CMS proposal that will likely be finalized in October 2016.\n\n\"Physicians in geographic Health Professional Shortage Areas (HPSAs) and Physician Scarcity Areas (PSAs) can receive incentive payments from Medicare. Payments are made on a quarterly basis, rather than claim-by-claim, and are handled by each area's Medicare carrier.\"\n\nEnrollment\n\nGenerally, if you already receive Social Security payments, at age 65 you are automatically enrolled in Medicare Part A (Hospital Insurance). In addition, you are generally also automatically enrolled in Medicare Part B (Medical Insurance). If you choose to accept Part B you must pay a monthly premium to keep it. However, you may delay enrollment with no penalty under some circumstances, or with penalty under other circumstances.\n\nPart A & B\n\nPart A Late Enrollment Penalty\nIf you are not eligible for premium-free Part A, and you don't buy a premium-based Part A when you're first eligible, your monthly premium may go up 10%. You must pay the higher premium for twice the number of years you could have had Part A, but didn't sign-up. For example, if you were eligible for Part A for 2 years but didn't sign-up, you must pay the higher premium for 4 years. Usually, you\ndon't have to pay a penalty if you meet certain conditions that allow you to sign up for Part A during a Special Enrollment Period.\n\nPart B Late Enrollment Penalty\nIf you don't sign up for Part B when you're first eligible, you may have to pay a late enrollment penalty for as long as you have Medicare. Your monthly premium for Part B may go up 10% for\neach full 12-month period that you could have had Part B, but didn't sign up for it. Usually, you don't pay a late enrollment penalty if you meet certain conditions that allow you to sign up for Part B during a special enrollment period.\n\nMedicare differs from private insurance available to working Americans in that it is a social insurance program. Social insurance programs provide statutorily guaranteed benefits to the entire population (under certain circumstances, such as old age or unemployment). These benefits are financed in significant part through universal taxes. In effect, Medicare is a mechanism by which the state takes a portion of its citizens' resources to guarantee health and financial security to its citizens in old age or in case of disability, helping them cope with the enormous, unpredictable cost of health care. In its universality, Medicare differs substantially from private insurers, which must decide whom to cover and what benefits to offer to manage their risk pools and guarantee their costs don't exceed premiums.\n\nBecause the federal government is legally obligated to provide Medicare benefits to older and disabled Americans, it cannot cut costs by restricting eligibility or benefits, except by going through a difficult legislative process, or by revising its interpretation of medical necessity. By statute, Medicare may only pay for items and services that are \"reasonable and necessary for the diagnosis or treatment of illness or injury or to improve the functioning of a malformed body member\", unless there is another statutory authorization for payment. Cutting costs by cutting benefits is difficult, but the program can also achieve substantial economies of scale in terms of the prices it pays for health care and administrative expenses—and, as a result, private insurers' costs have grown almost 60% more than Medicare's since 1970. Medicare's cost growth is now the same as GDP growth and expected to stay well below private insurance's for the next decade.\n\nBecause Medicare offers statutorily determined benefits, its coverage policies and payment rates are publicly known, and all enrollees are entitled to the same coverage. In the private insurance market, plans can be tailored to offer different benefits to different customers, enabling individuals to reduce coverage costs while assuming risks for care that is not covered. Insurers, however, have far fewer disclosure requirements than Medicare, and studies show that customers in the private sector can find it difficult to know what their policy covers. and at what cost. Moreover, since Medicare collects data about utilization and costs for its enrollees—data that private insurers treat as trade secrets—it gives researchers key information about health care system performance.\n\nMedicare also has an important role driving changes in the entire health care system. Because Medicare pays for a huge share of health care in every region of the country, it has a great deal of power to set delivery and payment policies. For example, Medicare promoted the adaptation of prospective payments based on DRG's, which prevents unscrupulous providers from setting their own exorbitant prices. Meanwhile, the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act has given Medicare the mandate to promote cost-containment throughout the health care system, for example, by promoting the creation of accountable care organizations or by replacing fee-for-service payments with bundled payments.\n\nOver the long-term, Medicare faces significant financial challenges because of rising overall health care costs, increasing enrollment as the population ages, and a decreasing ratio of workers to enrollees. Total Medicare spending is projected to increase from $523 billion in 2010 to around $900 billion by 2020. From 2010 to 2030, Medicare enrollment is projected to increase from 47 million to 79 million, and the ratio of workers to enrollees is expected to decrease from 3.7 to 2.4. However, the ratio of workers to retirees has declined steadily for decades, and social insurance systems have remained sustainable due to rising worker productivity. There is some evidence that productivity gains will continue to offset demographic trends in the near future.\n\nThe Congressional Budget Office (CBO) wrote in 2008 that \"future growth in spending per beneficiary for Medicare and Medicaid—the federal government's major health care programs—will be the most important determinant of long-term trends in federal spending. Changing those programs in ways that reduce the growth of costs—which will be difficult, in part because of the complexity of health policy choices—is ultimately the nation's central long-term challenge in setting federal fiscal policy.\"\n\nOverall health care costs were projected in 2011 to increase by 5.8 percent annually from 2010 to 2020, in part because of increased utilization of medical services, higher prices for services, and new technologies. Health care costs are rising across the board, but the cost of insurance has risen dramatically for families and employers as well as the federal government. In fact, since 1970 the per-capita cost of private coverage has grown roughly one percentage point faster each year than the per-capita cost of Medicare. Since the late 1990s, Medicare has performed especially well relative to private insurers. Over the next decade, Medicare's per capita spending is projected to grow at a rate of 2.5 percent each year, compared to private insurance's 4.8 percent. Nonetheless, most experts and policymakers agree containing health care costs is essential to the nation's fiscal outlook. Much of the debate over the future of Medicare revolves around whether per capita costs should be reduced by limiting payments to providers or by shifting more costs to Medicare enrollees.\n\nSeveral measures serve as indicators of the long-term financial status of Medicare. These include total Medicare spending as a share of gross domestic product (GDP), the solvency of the Medicare HI trust fund, Medicare per-capita spending growth relative to inflation and per-capita GDP growth; general fund revenue as a share of total Medicare spending; and actuarial estimates of unfunded liability over the 75-year timeframe and the infinite horizon (netting expected premium/tax revenue against expected costs). The major issue in all these indicators is comparing any future projections against current law vs. what the actuaries expect to happen. For example, current law specifies that Part A payments to hospitals and skilled nursing facilities will be cut substantially after 2028 and that doctors will get no raises after 2025. The actuaries expect that the law will change to keep these events from happening.\n\nThis measure, which examines Medicare spending in the context of the US economy as a whole, is expected to increase from 3.6 percent in 2010 to 6.2 percent by 2090 under current law and over 9 percent under what the actuaries really expect will happen (called an \"illustrative example\" in recent-year Trustees Reports).\n\nThis measure involves only Part A. The trust fund is considered insolvent when available revenue plus any existing balances will not cover 100 percent of annual projected costs. According to the latest estimate by the Medicare trustees (2016), the trust fund is expected to become insolvent in 11 years (2028), at which time available revenue will cover 87 percent of annual projected costs. Since Medicare began, this solvency projection has ranged from two to 28 years, with an average of 11.3 years.\n\nThe Independent Payment Advisory Board (IPAB), which the Affordable Care Act or \"ACA\" created, will use this measure to determine whether it must recommend to Congress proposals to reduce Medicare costs. Under the ACA, Congress established maximum targets, or thresholds, for per-capita Medicare spending growth. For the five-year periods ending in 2015 through 2019, these targets are based on the average of CPI-U and CPI-M. For the five-year periods ending in 2020 and subsequent years, these targets are based on per-capita GDP growth plus one percentage point. Each year, the CMS Office of the Actuary must compare those two values, and if the spending measure is larger than the economic measure, IPAB must propose cost-savings recommendations for consideration in Congress on an expedited basis. The Congressional Budget Office projects that Medicare per-capita spending growth will not exceed the economic target at any time between 2015 and 2021.\n\nThrough 2016, these trigger points have never been reached and IPAB has not even been formed. However, in the 2016 Medicare Trustees Report, the actuaries estimate that the trigger points will be reached in 2016 or 2017 and that IPAB will affect Medicare spending for the first time in 2019 (meaning it will need to be formed and recommend its cuts in 2017).\n\nThis measure, established under the Medicare Modernization Act (MMA), examines Medicare spending in the context of the federal budget. Each year, MMA requires the Medicare trustees to make a determination about whether general fund revenue is projected to exceed 45 percent of total program spending within a seven-year period. If the Medicare trustees make this determination in two consecutive years, a \"funding warning\" is issued. In response, the president must submit cost-saving legislation to Congress, which must consider this legislation on an expedited basis. This threshold was reached and a warning issued every year between 2006 and 2013 but it has not been reached since that time and is not expected to be reached in the 2016-2022 \"window.\" This is a reflection of the reduced spending growth mandated by the ACA according to the Trustees.\n\nMedicare's unfunded obligation is the total amount of money that would have to be set aside today such that the principal and interest would cover the gap between projected revenues (mostly Part B premiums and Part A payroll taxes to be paid over the timeframe under current law) and spending over a given timeframe. By law the timeframe used is 75 years though the Medicare actuaries also give an infinite-horizon estimate because life expectancy consistently increases and other economic factors underlying the estimates change.\n\nAs of January 1, 2016, Medicare's unfunded obligation over the 75 year timeframe is $3.8 trillion for the Part A Trust Fund and $28.6 trillion for Part B. Over an infinite timeframe the combined unfunded liability for both programs combined is over $50 trillion, with the difference primarily in the Part B estimate. These estimates assume that CMS will pay full benefits as currently specified over those periods though that would be contrary to current United States law. In addition, as discussed throughout each annual Trustees' report, \"the Medicare projections shown could be substantially understated as a result of other potentially unsustainable elements of current law.\" For example, current law effectively provides no raises for doctors after 2025; that is unlikely to happen. It is impossible for actuaries to estimate unfunded liability other than assuming current law is followed (except relative to benefits as noted), the Trustees state \"that actual long-range present values for (Part A) expenditures and (Part B/D) expenditures and revenues could exceed the amounts estimated by a substantial margin.\"\n\nPopular opinion surveys show that the public views Medicare's problems as serious, but not as urgent as other concerns. In January 2006, the Pew Research Center found 62 percent of the public said addressing Medicare's financial problems should be a high priority for the government, but that still put it behind other priorities. Surveys suggest that there's no public consensus behind any specific strategy to keep the program solvent.\n\nThe Government Accountability Office lists Medicare as a \"high-risk\" government program in need of reform, in part because of its vulnerability to fraud and partly because of its long-term financial problems. Fewer than 5% of Medicare claims are audited.\n\nRobert M. Ball, a former commissioner of Social Security under President Kennedy in 1961 (and later under Johnson, and Nixon) defined the major obstacle to financing health insurance for the elderly: the high cost of care for the aged combined with the generally low incomes of retired people. Because retired older people use much more medical care than younger employed people, an insurance premium related to the risk for older people needed to be high, but if the high premium had to be paid after retirement, when incomes are low, it was an almost impossible burden for the average person. The only feasible approach, he said, was to finance health insurance in the same way as cash benefits for retirement, by contributions paid while at work, when the payments are least burdensome, with the protection furnished in retirement without further payment. In the early 1960s relatively few of the elderly had health insurance, and what they had was usually inadequate. Insurers such as Blue Cross, which had originally applied the principle of community rating, faced competition from other commercial insurers that did not community rate, and so were forced to raise their rates for the elderly.\n\nMedicare is not generally an unearned entitlement. Entitlement is most commonly based on a record of contributions to the Medicare fund. As such it is a form of social insurance making it feasible for people to pay for insurance for sickness in old age when they are young and able to work and be assured of getting back benefits when they are older and no longer working. Some people will pay in more than they receive back and others will receive more benefits than they paid in. Unlike private insurance where some amount must be paid to attain coverage, all eligible persons can receive coverage regardless of how much or if they had ever paid in.\n\nBruce Vladeck, director of the Health Care Financing Administration in the Clinton administration, has argued that lobbyists have changed the Medicare program \"from one that provides a legal entitlement to beneficiaries to one that provides a de facto political entitlement to providers.\"\n\nA 2001 study by the Government Accountability Office evaluated the quality of responses given by Medicare contractor customer service representatives to provider (physician) questions. The evaluators assembled a list of questions, which they asked during a random sampling of calls to Medicare contractors. The rate of complete, accurate information provided by Medicare customer service representatives was 15%. Since then, steps have been taken to improve the quality of customer service given by Medicare contractors, specifically the 1-800-MEDICARE contractor. As a result, 1-800-MEDICARE customer service representatives (CSR) have seen an increase in training, quality assurance monitoring has significantly increased, and a customer satisfaction survey is offered to random callers.\n\nIn most states the Joint Commission, a private, non-profit organization for accrediting hospitals, decides whether or not a hospital is able to participate in Medicare, as currently there are no competitor organizations recognized by CMS.\n\nOther organizations can also accredit hospitals for Medicare. These include the Community Health Accreditation Program, the Accreditation Commission for Health Care, the Compliance Team and the Healthcare Quality Association on Accreditation.\n\nAccreditation is voluntary and an organization may choose to be evaluated by their State Survey Agency or by CMS directly.\n\nMedicare funds the vast majority of residency training in the US. This tax-based financing covers resident salaries and benefits through payments called Direct Medical Education payments. Medicare also uses taxes for Indirect Medical Education, a subsidy paid to teaching hospitals in exchange for training resident physicians. For the 2008 fiscal year these payments were $2.7 and $5.7 billion respectively. Overall funding levels have remained at the same level since 1996, so that the same number or fewer residents have been trained under this program. Meanwhile, the US population continues to grow both older and larger, which has led to greater demand for physicians, in part due to higher rates of illness and disease among the elderly compared to younger individuals. At the same time the cost of medical services continue rising rapidly and many geographic areas face physician shortages, both trends suggesting the supply of physicians remains too low.\n\nMedicare thus finds itself in the odd position of having assumed control of the single largest funding source for graduate medical education, currently facing major budget constraints, and as a result, freezing funding for graduate medical education, as well as for physician reimbursement rates. This has forced hospitals to look for alternative sources of funding for residency slots. This halt in funding in turn exacerbates the exact problem Medicare sought to solve in the first place: improving the availability of medical care. However, some healthcare administration experts believe that the shortage of physicians may be an opportunity for providers to reorganize their delivery systems to become less costly and more efficient. Physician assistants and Advanced Registered Nurse Practitioners may begin assuming more responsibilities that traditionally fell to doctors, but do not necessarily require the advanced training and skill of a physician.\n\nOf the 35,476 total active applicants who participated in The National Resident Matching Program in 2016, 75.6% (26,836) were able to find PGY-1 (R-1) matches. Out of the total active applicants, 51.27% (18,187) were graduates of conventional US medical schools; 93.8% (17,057) were able to find a match. In comparison, match rates were 80.3% of osteopathic graduates, 53.9% of US citizen international medical school graduates, and 50.5% of non-US citizen international medical schools graduates.\n\n\nIn 1977, the Health Care Financing Administration (HCFA) was established as a federal agency responsible for the administration of Medicare and Medicaid. This would be renamed to Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services (CMS) in 2001. By 1983, the diagnosis-related group (DRG) replaced pay for service reimbursements to hospitals for Medicare patients.\n\nPresident Bill Clinton attempted an overhaul of Medicare through his health care reform plan in 1993–1994 but was unable to get the legislation passed by Congress.\n\nIn 2003 Congress passed the Medicare Prescription Drug, Improvement, and Modernization Act, which President George W. Bush signed into law on December 8, 2003. Part of this legislation included filling gaps in prescription-drug coverage left by the Medicare Secondary Payer Act that was enacted in 1980. The 2003 bill strengthened the Workers' Compensation Medicare Set-Aside Program (WCMSA) that is monitored and administered by CMS.\n\nOn August 1, 2007, the US House United States Congress voted to reduce payments to Medicare Advantage providers in order to pay for expanded coverage of children's health under the SCHIP program. As of 2008, Medicare Advantage plans cost, on average, 13 percent more per person insured for like beneficiaries than direct payment plans. Many health economists have concluded that payments to Medicare Advantage providers have been excessive. The Senate, after heavy lobbying from the insurance industry, declined to agree to the cuts in Medicare Advantage proposed by the House. President Bush subsequently vetoed the SCHIP extension.\n\nThe Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act (\"PPACA\") of 2010 made a number of changes to the Medicare program. Several provisions of the law were designed to reduce the cost of Medicare. The most substantial provisions slowed the growth rate of payments to hospitals and skilled nursing facilities under Parts A of Medicare, through a variety of methods (e.g., arbitrary percentage cuts, penalties for readmissions).\n\nCongress also attempted to reduce payments to public Part C Medicare health plans by aligning the rules that establish Part C plans' capitated fees more closely with the FFS paid for comparable care to \"similar beneficiaries\" under Parts A and B of Medicare. Primarily these reductions involved much discretion on the part of CMS and examples of what CMS did included effectively ending a Part C program Congress had previously initiated to increase the use of Part C in rural areas (the so-called Part C PFFS plan) and reducing over time a program that encouraged employers and unions to create their own Part C plans not available to the general Medicare beneficiary base (so-called Part C EGWP plans) by providing higher reimbursement. These two types of Part C plans had been identified by MedPAC as the programs that most negatively affected parity between the cost of Medicare beneficiaries on Parts A/B/C and the costs of beneficiaries not on Parts A/B/C. These efforts to reach parity have been more than successful. As of 2015, all beneficiaries on A/B/C cost 4% less per person than all beneficiaries not on A/B/C. But whether that is because the cost of the former decreased or the cost of the latter increased is not known.\n\nPPACA also slightly reduced annual increases in payments to physicians and to hospitals that serve a disproportionate share of low-income patients. Along with other minor adjustments, these changes reduced Medicare's projected cost over the next decade by $455 billion.\n\nAdditionally, the PPACA created the Independent Payment Advisory Board (\"IPAB\"), which is empowered to submit legislative proposals to reduce the cost of Medicare if the program's per-capita spending grows faster than per-capita GDP plus one percent. While the IPAB would be barred from rationing care, raising revenue, changing benefits or eligibility, increasing cost sharing, or cutting payments to hospitals, its creation has been one of the more controversial aspects of health reform. In 2016, the Medicare Trustees projected that the IPAB will have to convene in 2017 and make cuts effective in 2019.\n\nThe PPACA also made some changes to Medicare enrollee's' benefits. By 2020, it will close the so-called \"donut hole\" between Part D plans' coverage limits and the catastrophic cap on out-of-pocket spending, reducing a Part D enrollee's' exposure to the cost of prescription drugs by an average of $2,000 a year. This lowered costs for about 5% of the people on Medicare. Limits were also placed on out-of-pocket costs for in-network care for public Part C health plan enrollees. Most of these plans had such a limit but ACA formalized the annual out of pocket spend limit. Beneficiaries on traditional Medicare do not get such a limit but can effectively arrange for one through private insurance.\n\nMeanwhile, Medicare Part B and D premiums were restructured in ways that reduced costs for most people while raising contributions from the wealthiest people with Medicare. The law also expanded coverage of or eliminated co-pays for some preventive services.\n\nThe PPACA instituted a number of measures to control Medicare fraud and abuse, such as longer oversight periods, provider screenings, stronger standards for certain providers, the creation of databases to share data between federal and state agencies, and stiffer penalties for violators. The law also created mechanisms, such as the Center for Medicare and Medicaid Innovation to fund experiments to identify new payment and delivery models that could conceivably be expanded to reduce the cost of health care while improving quality.\n\nAs legislators continue to seek new ways to control the cost of Medicare, a number of new proposals to reform Medicare have been introduced in recent years.\n\nPremium support\n\nSince the mid-1990s, there have been a number of proposals to change Medicare from a publicly run social insurance program with a defined benefit, for which there is no limit to the government's expenses, into a program that offers \"premium support\" for enrollees. The basic concept behind the proposals is that the government would make a defined contribution, that is a premium support, to the health plan of a Medicare enrollee's choice. Insurers would compete to provide Medicare benefits and this competition would set the level of fixed contribution. Additionally, enrollees would be able to purchase greater coverage by paying more in addition to the fixed government contribution. Conversely, enrollees could choose lower cost coverage and keep the difference between their coverage costs and the fixed government contribution. The goal of premium Medicare plans is for greater cost-effectiveness; if such a proposal worked as planned, the financial incentive would be greatest for Medicare plans that offer the best care at the lowest cost.\n\nThere have been a number of criticisms of the premium support model. Some have raised concern about risk selection, where insurers find ways to avoid covering people expected to have high health care costs. Premium support proposals, such as the 2011 plan proposed by Rep. Paul Ryan (R–Wis.), have aimed to avoid risk selection by including protection language mandating that plans participating in such coverage must provide insurance to all beneficiaries and are not able to avoid covering higher risk beneficiaries. Some critics are concerned that the Medicare population, which has particularly high rates of cognitive impairment and dementia, would have a hard time choosing between competing health plans. Robert Moffit, a senior fellow of The Heritage Foundation responded to this concern, stating that while there may be research indicating that individuals have difficulty making the correct choice of health care plan, there is no evidence to show that government officials can make better choices. Henry Aaron, one of the original proponents of premium supports, has recently argued that the idea should not be implemented, given that Medicare Advantage plans have not successfully contained costs more effectively than traditional Medicare and because the political climate is hostile to the kinds of regulations that would be needed to make the idea workable.\n\nTwo distinct premium support systems have recently been proposed in Congress to control the cost of Medicare. The House Republicans' 2012 budget would have abolished traditional Medicare and required the eligible population to purchase private insurance with a newly created premium support program. This plan would have cut the cost of Medicare by capping the value of the voucher and tying its growth to inflation, which is expected to be lower than rising health costs, saving roughly $155 billion over 10 years. Paul Ryan, the plan's author, claimed that competition would drive down costs, but the Congressional Budget Office (CBO) found that the plan would dramatically raise the cost of health care, with all of the additional costs falling on enrollees. The CBO found that under the plan, typical 65-year-olds would go from paying 35 percent of their health care costs to paying 68 percent by 2030.\n\nIn December 2011, Ryan and Sen. Ron Wyden (D–Oreg.) jointly proposed a new premium support system. Unlike Ryan's original plan, this new system would maintain traditional Medicare as an option, and the premium support would not be tied to inflation. The spending targets in the Ryan-Wyden plan are the same as the targets included in the Affordable Care Act; it is unclear whether the plan would reduce Medicare expenditure relative to current law.\n\nRaising the age of eligibility\n\nA number of different plans have been introduced that would raise the age of Medicare eligibility. Some have argued that, as the population ages and the ratio of workers to retirees increases, programs for the elderly need to be reduced. Since the age at which Americans can retire with full Social Security benefits is rising to 67, it is argued that the age of eligibility for Medicare should rise with it (though people can begin receiving reduced Social Security benefits as early as age 62).\n\nThe CBO projected that raising the age of Medicare eligibility would save $113 billion over 10 years after accounting for the necessary expansion of Medicaid and state health insurance exchange subsidies under health care reform, which are needed to help those who could not afford insurance purchase it. The Kaiser Family Foundation found that raising the age of eligibility would save the federal government $5.7 billion a year, while raising costs for other payers. According to Kaiser, raising the age would cost $3.7 billion to 65- and 66-year-olds, $2.8 billion to other consumers whose premiums would rise as insurance pools absorbed more risk, $4.5 billion to employers offering insurance, and $0.7 billion to states expanding their Medicaid rolls. Ultimately Kaiser found that the plan would raise total social costs by more than twice the savings to the federal government.\n\nNegotiating the prices of prescription drugs\n\nCurrently, people with Medicare can get prescription drug coverage through a Medicare Advantage plan or through the standalone private prescription drug plans (PDPs) established under Medicare Part D. Each plan established its own coverage policies and independently negotiates the prices it pays to drug manufacturers. But because each plan has a much smaller coverage pool than the entire Medicare program, many argue that this system of paying for prescription drugs undermines the government's bargaining power and artificially raises the cost of drug coverage.\n\nMany look to the Veterans Health Administration as a model of lower cost prescription drug coverage. Since the VHA provides healthcare directly, it maintains its own formulary and negotiates prices with manufacturers. Studies show that the VHA pays dramatically less for drugs than the PDP plans Medicare Part D subsidizes. One analysis found that adopting a formulary similar to the VHA's would save Medicare $14 billion a year (over 10 years the savings would be around $140 billion).\n\nThere are other proposals for savings on prescription drugs that do not require such fundamental changes to Medicare Part D's payment and coverage policies. Manufacturers who supply drugs to Medicaid are required to offer a 15 percent rebate on the average manufacturer's price. Low-income elderly individuals who qualify for both Medicare and Medicaid receive drug coverage through Medicare Part D, and no reimbursement is paid for the drugs the government purchases for them. Reinstating that rebate would yield savings of $112 billion, according to a recent CBO estimate.\n\nSome have questioned the ability of the federal government to achieve greater savings than the largest PDPs, since some of the larger plans have coverage pools comparable to Medicare's, though the evidence from the VHA is promising. Some also worry that controlling the prices of prescription drugs would reduce incentives for manufacturers to invest in R&D, though the same could be said of anything that would reduce costs.\n\nReforming care for the \"dual-eligibles\"\n\nRoughly nine million Americans—mostly older adults with low incomes—are eligible for both Medicare and Medicaid. These men and women tend to have particularly poor health – more than half are being treated for five or more chronic conditions—and high costs. Average annual per-capita spending for \"dual-eligibles\" is $20,000, compared to $10,900 for the Medicare population as a whole all enrollees.\n\nThe dual-eligible population comprises roughly 20 percent of Medicare's enrollees but accounts for 36 percent of its costs. There is substantial evidence that these individuals receive highly inefficient care because responsibility for their care is split between the Medicare and Medicaid programs—most see a number of different providers without any kind of mechanism to coordinate their care, and they face high rates of potentially preventable hospitalizations. Because Medicaid and Medicare cover different aspects of health care, both have a financial incentive to shunt patients into care the other program pays for.\n\nMany experts have suggested that establishing mechanisms to coordinate care for the dual-eligibles could yield substantial savings in the Medicare program, mostly by reducing hospitalizations. Such programs would connect patients with primary care, create an individualized health plan, assist enrollees in receiving social and human services as well as medical care, reconcile medications prescribed by different doctors to ensure they do not undermine one another, and oversee behavior to improve health. The general ethos of these proposals is to \"treat the patient, not the condition,\" and maintain health while avoiding costly treatments.\n\nThere is some controversy over who exactly should take responsibility for coordinating the care of the dual eligibles. There have been some proposals to transfer dual eligibles into existing Medicaid managed care plans, which are controlled by individual states. But many states facing severe budget shortfalls might have some incentive to stint on necessary care or otherwise shift costs to enrollees and their families to capture some Medicaid savings. Medicare has more experience managing the care of older adults, and is already expanding coordinated care programs under the ACA, though there are some questions about private Medicare plans' capacity to manage care and achieve meaningful cost savings.\n\nEstimated savings from more effective coordinated care for the dual eligibles range from $125 billion to over $200 billion, mostly by eliminating unnecessary, expensive hospital admissions.\n\nIncome-relating Medicare premiums\n\nBoth House Republicans and President Obama proposed increasing the additional premiums paid by the wealthiest people with Medicare, compounding several reforms in the ACA that would increase the number of wealthier individuals paying higher, income-related Part B and Part D premiums. Such proposals are projected to save $20 billion over the course of a decade, and would ultimately result in more than a quarter of Medicare enrollees paying between 35 and 90 percent of their Part B costs by 2035, rather than the typical 25 percent. If the brackets mandated for 2035 were implemented today, it would mean that anyone earning more than $47,000 (as an individual) or $94,000 (as a couple) would be affected. Under the Republican proposals, affected individuals would pay 40 percent of the total Part B and Part D premiums, which would be equivalent of $2,500 today.\n\nMore limited income-relation of premiums only raises limited revenue. Currently, only 5 percent of Medicare enrollees pay an income-related premium, and most only pay 35 percent of their total premium, compared to the 25 percent most people pay. Only a negligible number of enrollees fall into the higher income brackets required to bear a more substantial share of their costs—roughly half a percent of individuals and less than three percent of married couples currently pay more than 35 percent of their total Part B costs.\n\nThere is some concern that tying premiums to income would weaken Medicare politically over the long run, since people tend to be more supportive of universal social programs than of means-tested ones.\n\nMedigap restrictions\n\nSome Medicare supplemental insurance (or \"Medigap\") plans cover all of an enrollee's cost-sharing, insulating them from any out-of-pocket costs and guaranteeing financial security to individuals with significant health care needs. Many policymakers believe that such plans raise the cost of Medicare by creating a perverse incentive that leads patients to seek unnecessary, costly treatments. Many argue that unnecessary treatments are a major cause of rising costs and propose that people with Medicare should feel more of the cost of their care to create incentives to seek the most efficient alternatives. Various restrictions and surcharges on Medigap coverage have appeared in recent deficit reduction proposals. One of the furthest-reaching reforms proposed, which would prevent Medigap from covering any of the first $500 of coinsurance charges and limit it to covering 50 percent of all costs beyond that, could save $50 billion over 10 years. But it would also increase health care costs substantially for people with costly health care needs.\n\nThere is some evidence that claims of Medigap's tendency to cause over-treatment may be exaggerated and that potential savings from restricting it might be smaller than expected. Meanwhile, there are some concerns about the potential effects on enrollees. Individuals who face high charges with every episode of care have been shown to delay or forgo needed care, jeopardizing their health and possibly increasing their health care costs down the line. Given their lack of medical training, most patients tend to have difficulty distinguishing between necessary and unnecessary treatments. The problem could be exaggerated among the Medicare population, which has low levels of health literacy.\n\nThe following congressional committees provide oversight for Medicare programs:\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "45714927", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45714927", "title": "Mercury nano-trap water filtration", "text": "Mercury nano-trap water filtration\n\nMercury is considered to be one of the most notorious metal pollutants present in food, water, air and soil, but the process of eliminating it is limited. Heavy metals such as mercury are formed on the earth's crust and made into solutions with ground water through certain natural processing and pH changes occurring in the soil. There are traditional methods that are used to extract mercury from the natural water sources and industrial waste water, such as chemical precipitation, amalgamation, reverse osmosis, membrane filtration and photochemical methods. However, these methods are expensive, time consuming, and inefficient, hence the need for a nanofiltration technology that overcomes all of these issues. Nanofiltration technology is very efficient in removal of mercury species due to its characteristics of having high surface area-to-volume and the fact that it's easily chemically functionalized. Additionally, Brownian motion of nanomaterials allows them to scan large volume of solvent in short times. There are many copolymer nanoparticles (NPs) that can be used as scavengers to eliminate mercury species via redox reactions such as selenium NPs, manganese dioxide nanowhiskers, carbon nanotube−silverNP composites, silver NPs, silver NP-decorated silicaspheres, gold NP-based materials. Among these adsorbents, citrate-capped gold NP-based materials have been used intensively to capture mercury species from nature water.\n\nInstrumentation\n\nHigh-resolution transmission electron microscopy (HRTEM) is used to obtain the HRTEM images (FEI Tecnai G2 F20 S-Twin working at 200 kV) and double beam UV-visible spectrophotometer is used for the extinction, or removal, of the NPs gold spectra. A combination of scanning electron microscope and an energy dispersive X-ray detector (EDX) for obtaining EDX spectra while sub micrometer particle size analyzer and Delsa nano zeta potential measure the potential of gold NPs. Inductively coupled plasma-mass spectrometry (ICP-MS) measures the quantification of mercury species in gold NPs while the linear range of Hg2+ should be between 2.5 and 50 nM. The powder X-ray diffraction is measured using a diffractometer with Cu Kα radiation. A superconducting quantum interference device measures the magnetometry while the Fourier-transformed infrared spectroscopy spectrum is measured by a Nicolet 6700 FT-IR spectrometer.\n\nRemoval of mercury species\nThe application of an external magnetic field helps reduce the Fe3O4 NP compositions and can be used to remove the citrate capped gold NPs or Tween 20- Au NPs. The quantity of the Hg2+ is determined by ICP-MS. Elimination efficiency is calculated as:\n\nThe equilibrium absorption capacity was determined by:\n\nwhere qe is the equilibrium absorption capacity, Ce is the concentration of Hg2+, V is the volume of the solution and W is the weight of Tween 20-Au NPs. Other metals in place of mercury can be used to determine the reusability of the nanofiltration method. A simple nanofiltration process is illustrated in Figure 2.\n\nWhen purifying mercury from sea water, a decrease in the volume to surface area ratio leads to a decline in the efficiency of the elimination.7 Cost efficiency of the nanotrap process is indicated in the fact that the materials can be reused to recycle more water. Tween 20-Au NPs are rapid, efficient and selective in capturing Hg2+ in high salt water concentration when the gold NPs catalyze the citrate ion induced reduction of Hg2+ to Hg0. ICP-MS is used to quantify the Hg2+ concentration to determine the level of elimination efficiency. Figure 3 shows an illustration process of the nano trap filtration process.\n\nThe use of nanomaterials in removing the mercury from water is advantageous because of the high surface area to volume ratio and the fact that they are easily chemically functionalized. Nanomaterials capture five times more mercury than the maximum mercury captured predicted through the use of previous mercury filtration systems. Compared to other NP-based methods for Hg2+ removal from high salt matrix, Tween 20-Au NPs is a rapid and selective technique with high efficiency. For purification of drinking water, it is advisable to use nano-tablets with the filters because they are easily accessible and cost efficient.\n"}
{"id": "17603039", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17603039", "title": "Norwegian State Council on Disability", "text": "Norwegian State Council on Disability\n\nNorwegian State Council on Disability () is a Norwegian government agency responsible for giving advice on matters within discrimination of people with disabilities, including issues related to public accessibility. The council has fourteen members, elected for four years, and acts as an advisory board, primarily related to other public agencies. It was created in 1991.\n"}
{"id": "7981926", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7981926", "title": "Orchialgia", "text": "Orchialgia\n\nOrchialgia is long-term pain of the testes. It is considered chronic if it has persisted for more than 3 months. Orchialgia may be caused by injury, infection, surgery, cancer or testicular torsion and is a possible complication after vasectomy. IgG4-related disease is a more recently identified cause of chronic orchialgia.\n\nOne author describes the syndromes of chronic testicular pain thus:\"The complaint is of a squeezing deep ache in the testis like the day after you got kicked there, often bilateral or alternating from one side to the other, intermittent, and, most commonly, associated with lower back pain. Sometimes it feels like the testicle is pinched in the crotch of the underwear but trouser readjustment does not help. There may also be pain in the inguinal area but no nausea or other symptoms. Back pain may be concurrent or absent and some patients have a long history of low back pain. Onset of pain is commonly related to activity that would stress the low back such as lifting heavy objects. Other stresses that might cause low back pain are imaginative coital positions, jogging, sitting hunched over a computer, long car driving, or other such positions of unsupported seating posture that flattens the normal lumbar lordosis curve.\"\n\nTesting for gonorrhea and chlamydia should be routinely performed.\n\nTreatment is often with NSAIDs and antibiotics however, this is not always effective.\n\n"}
{"id": "8098406", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8098406", "title": "ProRec", "text": "ProRec\n\nThe ProRec initiative of 1996 was a network of national non-profit organisations (the \"ProRec centres\"). The initiative was a consequence of the conclusions of the Concerted Action MEDIREC (1994-1995) regarding the reasons why Electronic Health Record (EHR) systems were not used more widely in any of the European Union. As part of the Lisbon Declaration suggestions were made to remedy this situation.\n\nThe ProRec initiative is supported by the DG Information Society of the European Union. The DG Information Society supported the ProRec initiative with the ProRec Support Action (1996-1998), and the WIDENET Accompanying Measure (2000-2003).\n\nThe goal of the initiative is to build awareness of the limitations, shortcomings and obstacles on the way towards widespread development, implementation and use of quality Electronic Health Records (EHRs) and pointing them out. Especially significant for implementing Electronic Health Record systems is the ability to communicate and interoperate. \n\n\n"}
{"id": "14326913", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14326913", "title": "Rehabilitation Services Administration", "text": "Rehabilitation Services Administration\n\nThe Rehabilitation Services Administration (RSA) is a federal agency under the United States Department of Education, Office of Special Education and Rehabilitative Services, and is headquartered within the Department of Education in Washington, D.C. It was established to administer portions of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973. Its mission is to provide leadership and resources to assist state and other agencies in providing vocational rehabilitation (VR) and other services to individuals with disabilities to maximize their employment, independence and integration into the community and the competitive labor market.\n\nRSA is charged with:\nadministering formula and discretionary grant programs authorized by Congress;\nevaluating, monitoring, and reporting on the implementation of Federal policy and programs and the effectiveness of vocational rehabilitation, supported employment, and other related programs for individuals with disabilities;\ncoordinating with other Federal agencies, State agencies, and the private sector including professional organizations, service providers, and organizations of persons with disabilities for the review of program planning, implementation, and monitoring issues\n\nRSA provides national leadership for, and administration of:\nbasic state and formula grant programs -- including grants to state vocational rehabilitation agencies --,\nrehabilitation training discretionary grant programs,\nRandolph-Sheppard Act vending facilities, and\nHelen Keller National Center (CITE) programs.\n\nThe grant programs under the RSA’s purview are in various areas such as technical assistance centers, demonstration projects, training, client advocacy, and underserved populations.\nThe largest program the RSA manages is the State Vocational Rehabilitation Services Program, which mainly assists in engage in gainful employment. If a state is unable to serve all disabled individuals, priority is given to individuals with the most significant disabilities.\n\nPrior to the establishment of the RSA, the passage of legislation played a key role in laying the groundwork for the federal and state partnership. The Smith-Hughes Act in 1917 helped to establish the Federal Board for Vocational Education, which would later regulate the veteran and civilian vocational rehabilitation programs. Coinciding with World War I, The Federal Board for Vocational Education oversaw a vocational rehabilitation program for disabled veterans under the Soldier’s Rehabilitation Act of 1918. In the 1920s, the Smith-Fess Act expanded the purview of the Federal Board for Vocational Rehabilitation to oversee a civilian vocational rehabilitation program to be funded on a 50-50 matching basis with the states. Congress would need to periodically vote to extend funding because it was not permanent at this time.\n\nThe Randolph–Sheppard Act in 1936 and the Wagner-O'Day Act in 1938 helped to prioritize employment of visually impaired individuals to operate vending stands in federal buildings, and required federal agencies to buy certain products from nonprofit organizations that employed people who are blind, respectively. These acts gave way to the establishment of the National Industries for the Blind. The National Industries for the Blind employed blind Americans who made and sold products under the business name Skilcraft.\n\nIn 1954, Public Law 565 increased the 50-50 matched funding from the federal government to 3 federal dollars for every 2 state dollars, and expanded services to those with intellectual disabilities. The Act authorized grants for research and educational training for rehabilitation counselors-to-be in universities. As the Director of the U.S. Office of Vocational Rehabilitation, Mary Switzer released funds for more than 100 university-based rehabilitation-related programs and was a strong advocate for improving quality of life for people with disabilities.\n\nIn 1965, Public Law 89-333 expanded federal funding to a 75-25 ratio. It also removed economic need as a requirement for services.\n\nIn 1972 the first versions of the Rehabilitation Act was passed by Congress, but vetoed by President Richard Nixon, once in October 1972 and then again in March 1973. President Nixon eventually signed the bill, sponsored by Representative John Brademas into law on September 26, 1973. One of the key pieces in the law is Section 504 of the Rehabilitation Act that says “no otherwise qualified handicapped individual in the United States shall solely on the basis of his handicap, be excluded from the participation, be denied the benefits of, or be subjected to discrimination under any program or activity receiving federal financial assistance.” This means that any organization or program that receives federal funding cannot discriminate against disabled individuals. One of the main purposes of the Act is to provide a statutory basis for the Rehabilitation Services Administration, who helps to develop and maintain federal regulations for individuals with disabilities and their families to help them find jobs and live independently. The RSA is the main agency responsible for carrying out Titles I (Vocational Rehabilitation Services), III (Professional Development and Special Projects and Demonstrations ), VI (Employment Opportunities for Individuals with Disabilities) and VII (Independent Living Services and Centers for Independent Living), as well as specified portions of Title V (Rights and Advocacy) of the Rehabilitation Act.\n\nThe Rehabilitation Act continued to evolve, in 1986, Public Law 99-506 helped to refine and focus services offered to those with the most severe disabilities. Section 504 of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973 helped to influence additional legislation like the Americans with Disabilities Act of 1990. In 1998, the Workforce Innovation and Opportunity Act (WIOA) impacted programs like the RSA, and according to RSA’s website, was intended to strengthen and improve the nation’s public workforce development system and help Americans with significant barriers to employment, including individuals with disabilities, into high quality jobs and careers and help employers hire and retain skilled workers. Title IV of WIOA amended title I of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973. Under the WIOA, the Governor of each State or Territory must submit a Unified or Combined State Plan to the U.S. Department of Labor that outlines a four-year strategy for the State’s workforce development system. Each state’s four-year plan is available on the RSA’s website and requires many governmental agencies to work together to review and approve the states’ plans.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "15560529", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15560529", "title": "Relative biological effectiveness", "text": "Relative biological effectiveness\n\nIn radiobiology, the relative biological effectiveness (often abbreviated as RBE) is the ratio of biological effectiveness of one type of ionizing radiation relative to another, given the same amount of absorbed energy. The RBE is an empirical value that varies depending on the particles, energies involved, and which biological effects are deemed relevant.\n\nIn ionizing radiation dosimetry RBE is now represented in the recommendations of the International Commission on Radiological Protection (ICRP) by the radiation weighting factor, (W) for each type of radiation; it was formerly the quality factor (Q).\n\nThese weighting factors convert absorbed dose (measured in SI units of grays or non-SI rads) into formal biological equivalent dose for radiation exposure (measured in units of sieverts or rem). The higher the RBE or weighting factor for a type of radiation, the more damaging it is, and this is incorporated into the calculation to convert from gray to sievert units (seeaccompanying diagram).\n\nThe relative biological effectiveness for radiation of type \"R\" on a tissue of type \"X\" is defined as the ratio\nwhere \"D\" is a reference absorbed dose of radiation of a standard type \"X\", and \"D\" is the absorbed dose of radiation of type \"R\" that causes the same amount of biological damage. Both doses are quantified by the amount of energy absorbed in the cells.\n\nDifferent types of radiation have different biological effectiveness mainly because they transfer their energy to the tissue in different ways. Photons and beta particles have a low linear energy transfer coefficient, meaning that they ionize atoms in the tissue that are spaced by several hundred nanometers (several tenths of a micrometer) apart, along their path. In contrast, the much more massive alpha particles and neutrons leave a denser trail of ionized atoms in their wake, spaced about one tenth of a nanometer apart (i.e., less than one-thousandth of the typical distance between ionizations for photons and beta particles).\n\nThe concept of RBE is relevant in medicine, such as in radiology and radiotherapy, and to the evaluation of risks and consequences of radioactive contamination in various contexts, such as nuclear power plant operation, nuclear fuel disposal and reprocessing, nuclear weapons, uranium mining, and ionizing radiation safety.\n\nRadiation weighting factors that go from physical energy to biological effect must not be confused with tissue weighting factors. The tissue weighting factors are used to convert an equivalent dose to a given tissue in the body, to an effective radiation dose, a number that provides an estimation of total danger to the whole organism, as a result of the radiation dose to part of the body.\n\nTo bypass the complexity of tissue dependence, the ICRP defined standard radiation weighting factors, independently of tissue type, to be used for risk and exposure assessment in radiology and the nuclear industry. These values are conservatively chosen to be greater than the bulk of experimental values observed for the most sensitive cell types, with respect to external (external to the cell) sources. Values for internal sources for heavy ions, such as a recoil nucleus, have not been developed. The ICRP 2007 standard values for relative effectiveness are given below.\n\nRadiation weighting factors \"W\" (formerly termed \"Q\" factor)\nused to represent relative biological effectiveness\naccording to ICRP report 103\n\nThus, for example, a given amount of energy absorbed in the form of 15 keV neutrons should be assumed to produce 10 times the damage caused by an equal amount of energy absorbed as X-rays or gamma rays.\n\nTypically the evaluation of relative biological effectiveness is done on various types of living cells grown in culture medium, including prokaryotic cells such as bacteria, simple eukaryotic cells such as single celled plants, and advanced eukaryotic cells derived from organisms such as rats. The doses are adjusted to the LD-50 point; that is, to the amount that will cause 50% of the cells to become unable to undergo mitotic division (or, for bacteria, binary fission), thus being effectively sterilized — even if they can still carry out other cellular functions.\n\nThe types \"R\" of ionizing radiation most considered in RBE evaluation are X-rays and gamma radiation (both consisting of photons), alpha radiations (helium-4 nuclei), beta radiation (electrons and positrons), neutron radiation, and heavy nuclei, including the fragments of nuclear fission. For some kinds of radiation, the RBE is strongly dependent on the energy of the individual particles.\n\nEarly on it was found that X-rays, gamma radiation, and beta radiation were essentially equivalent for all cell types. Therefore, the standard radiation type \"X\" is generally an X-ray beam with 250 keV photons. As a result, the relative biological effectiveness of beta and photon radiation is essentially 1.\n\nFor other radiation types, the RBE is not a well-defined physical quantity, since it varies somewhat with the type of tissue and with the precise place of absorption within the cell. Thus, for example, the RBE for alpha radiation is 2–3 when measured on bacteria, 4–6 for simple eukaryotic cells, and 6–8 for higher eukaryotic cells. According to one source it may be much higher (6500 with X rays as the reference) on ovocytes. The RBE of neutrons is 4–6 for bacteria, 8–12 for simple eukaryotic cells, and 12–16 for higher eukaryotic cells.\n\nIn the early experiments, the sources of radiation were all external to the cells that were irradiated. However, since alpha particles cannot traverse the outermost dead layer of human skin, they can do significant damage only if they come from the decay of atoms inside the body. Since the range of an alpha particle is typically about the diameter of a single eukaryotic cell, the precise location of the emitting atom in the tissue cells becomes significant.\n\nFor this reason, it has been suggested that the health impact of contamination by alpha emitters might have been substantially underestimated. Measurements of RBE with external sources also neglect the ionization caused by the recoil of the parent-nucleus due to the alpha decay. While the recoil of the parent-nucleus of the decaying atom typically carries only about 2% of the energy of the alpha-particle that is emitted by the decaying atom, its range is extremely short (about 2–3 angstroms), due to its high electric charge and high mass. The parent nucleus is required to recoil, upon emission of an alpha particle, with a discrete kinetic energy due to conservation of momentum. Thus, all of the ionization energy from the recoil-nucleus is deposited in an extremely small volume near its original location, typically in the cell nucleus on the chromosomes, which have an affinity for heavy metals. The bulk of studies, using sources that are external to the cell, have yielded RBEs between 10 and 20.\n\nIn 1931, Failla and Henshaw reported on determination of the relative biological effectiveness (RBE) of x rays and γ rays. This appears to be the first use of the term ‘RBE’. The authors noted that RBE was dependent on the experimental system being studied. Somewhat later, it was pointed out by Zirkle et al. (1952) that the biological effectiveness depends on the spatial distribution of the energy imparted and the density of ionisations per unit path length of the ionising particles. Zirkle et al. coined the term ‘linear energy transfer (LET)’ to be used in radiobiology for the stopping power, i.e. the energy loss per unit path length of a charged particle. The concept was introduced in the 1950s, at a time when the deployment of nuclear weapons and nuclear reactors spurred research on the biological effects of artificial radioactivity. It had been noticed that those effects depended both on the type and energy spectrum of the radiation, and on the kind of living tissue. The first systematic experiments to determine the RBE were conducted in that decade.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "37496327", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37496327", "title": "Sahrawi Red Crescent", "text": "Sahrawi Red Crescent\n\nThe Sahrawi Red Crescent Society is the part of the International Red Cross and Red Crescent Movement for the country of Sahrawi Arab Democratic Republic in Northern Africa.\n\nThe Sahrawi Red Crescent was formed by Sahrawi citizens on November 26, 1975, days after the joint Moroccan-Mauritanian invasion of former Spanish Sahara territory.\n\nDuring the first years of the organization, its major task was to reunite families who were scattered through the desert due to the Western Sahara War removing them from the battlefields to the neighbouring Algerian Sahara, facing the aerial bombardments of the Moroccan Air Force. Later came the organization of the refugee camps at the Algerian desert.\n"}
{"id": "34474124", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34474124", "title": "Secondary hospital", "text": "Secondary hospital\n\nA secondary hospital, secondary referral center or a secondary care center refers to a hospital in the United States which can support licensed physicians in pediatrics, obstetrics, and gynecology, general surgery and other supporting medical services.\n\n"}
{"id": "32348679", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32348679", "title": "Sita Kund", "text": "Sita Kund\n\nThe Punaura Dham, janki mandir is a Hindu pilgrimage site in Sitamarhi district, in the Indian state of Bihar, which has an ancient Hindu temple. It is situated 5 km west of Sitamarhi town and a popular visitor's attraction.\n\nPunaura Dham Janki Mandir is one of the holiest Hindu temples dedicated to Goddess Sita, located in Sitamarhi, Bihar, India. Million of pilgrims visit the temple every year and most visited religious shrine in North India. I\n\nPunaura Dham is about 5 km west of Sitamarhi. Saint Pundrik's Ashram was situated here. Sita-Kund place is the honour of being the birthplace of Hindu Goddess, Sita.\n\nThe place can be easily reached from the Patna Airport, Bus Station, Patna Railway Station. The temple is just approx. 150 km from the Patna Junction Railway Station. Bus, taxis etc. are available at Patna, Gulzarbagh, Patliputra and Patna City railway stations.\n\nThe place can be easily reached from the adjacent District's Muzaffarpur, Darbhanga, Madhubani and East Champaran.\n\nThe temple is just approx. 70 –80 km from the Muzaffarpur Railway Station/ Bus Station, Darbhanga Junction Railway Station/ Bus Station Madhubani Railway Station/ Bus Station and Motihari Railway Station/ Bus Station.\n\nThis is the place where Sita was born, the main character of the epic Ramayana. The town is situated along the border of Nepal.\n\nThis district is often bereaved by natural calamities. One of the most devastating is excess flooding due to mis-management of the banks by both civilians and government officials. This town was almost completely destroyed by the earthquake of 1934.\n\nSitamarhi is a beautiful place. Sitamarhi is far away from Patna (approximately 140 km), lies the historical and mythologically-essayed town of Sitamarhi.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "31485641", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31485641", "title": "Society of Chiropodists and Podiatrists", "text": "Society of Chiropodists and Podiatrists\n\nThe Society of Chiropodists and Podiatrists (SCP) is the professional association and trade union for registered chiropodists and podiatrists in the United Kingdom. The charitable subsidiary of the organisation is the College of Podiatry which was formed in 2012.\n\nThe union originated in 1912 as the Society of Chiropodists, the first organisation of chiropodists in Europe. In 1916, it was renamed the Incorporated Society of Chiropodists, and in 1919, it established examinations for potential new members. Several rival organisations emerged: the Northern Association of Chiropodists, the Chelsea Chiropodists Association and the British Association of Chiropodists. These merged with the Incorporated Society in 1945, the new body once more taking the name Society of Chiropodists. It was recognised as a negotiating body by the National Health Service in 1948, but did not register as a trade union until 1978. In 1993, it took its current name, recognising the membership of podiatrists, and in 1997, it affiliated to the Trades Union Congress. In 1998, the Association of Chief Chiropody Officers and the Podiatry Association both merged with the society.\n\nThe objectives for which the Society of Chiropodists and Podiatrists is established are as follows:\n\nThe objectives for which the College of Podiatry is established are as follows:\n\nCamilla, Duchess of Cornwall has been the society's Patron since 2005. The Queen Mum was previously patron from 1993, up until her death in 2002.\n\nThe trade union arm of the Society is delivered by a network of local representatives and regionally based Employment Relations Officers.\n\nThe Society is a member of the TUC\n\n"}
{"id": "41470653", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41470653", "title": "Society of Pharmacovigilance, India", "text": "Society of Pharmacovigilance, India\n\nThe Society of Pharmacovigilance, India (SoPI), is an Indian national non-profit scientific organisation, which aims at organizing training programmes and providing expertise in pharmacovigilance and enhance all aspects of the safe and proper use of medicines\n\nThe International Society of Pharmacovigilance (ISoP) granted status of 'associated society' to Society of Pharmacovigilance India (SoPI). It is the second professional society in the world after ISoP.\n\nThe founder of SoPI is KC Singhal.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "320320", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=320320", "title": "Speculum (medical)", "text": "Speculum (medical)\n\nA speculum (Latin for \"mirror\"; plural specula or speculums) is a medical tool for investigating body orifices, with a form dependent on the orifice for which it is designed. In old texts, the speculum may also be referred to as a diopter or dioptra. Like an endoscope, a speculum allows a view inside the body; endoscopes, however, tend to have optics while a speculum is intended for direct vision.\n\nVaginal and anal specula were used by the ancient Greeks and Romans, and speculum artifacts have been found in Pompeii. A vaginal speculum, developed by J. Marion Sims, consists of a hollow cylinder with a rounded end that is divided into two hinged parts, somewhat like the beak of a duck. The speculum is inserted into the vagina to dilate it for examination of the vagina and cervix.\n\nSpecula were formerly made of stainless steel, and sterilized after use. However, many, especially those used in emergency departments and doctor's offices, are now made of plastic, and are disposable, single-use items. Those used in surgical suites are still commonly made of metal.\n\nSpecula come in a variety of shapes based on their purpose, and a variety of sizes; in any case the cylinder or blade(s) of the instrument allow the operator a direct vision of the area of interest and the possibility to introduce instruments for further interventions such as a biopsy.\n\nThe best-known speculum is the bivalved vaginal speculum; the two blades are hinged and are \"closed\" when the speculum is inserted to facilitate its entry and \"opened\" in its final position where they can be arrested by a screw mechanism, so that the operator is freed from keeping the blades apart.\n\nA cylindrical-shaped speculum, introduced in 2001, the dilating vaginal speculum (also known as the Veda-scope) invented by Clemens van der Weegen, inflates the vagina with filtered air. (see diagram) The device has two main functions: a) to take a normal Pap smear with a cervical brush or a cytology brush; and b) as an internal colposcope so that the operator can pivot the Veda-scope to view any part of the vagina barrel and cervix facilitated by an internal light source that can illuminate the vaginal wall and cervix with multi-coloured light filters, which can detect pre-cancerous cells with the aid of acetic acid solution and iodine solution. It also has a facility to attach a digital camera for viewing and recording. \n\nA specialized form of vaginal speculum is the weighted speculum, which consists of a broad half tube which is bent at about a 90 degree angle, with the channel of the tube on the exterior side of the angle. One end of the tube has a roughly spherical metal weight surrounding the channel of the speculum. A weighted speculum is placed in the vagina during vaginal surgery with the patient in the lithotomy position. The weight holds the speculum in place and frees the surgeon's hands for other tasks.\nA vaginal speculum is also used in fertility treatments, particularly artificial insemination, and allows the vaginal cavity to be opened and observed thereby facilitating the deposit of semen into the vagina.\n\n\n\n\nVaginal specula are also used for anal surgery, although several other forms of anal specula exist. One form, the anoscope, resembles a tube that has a removable bullet-shaped insert. When the anoscope is inserted into the anus, the insert dilates the anus to the diameter of the tube. The insert is then removed, leaving the tube to allow examination of the lower rectum and anus.\n\nThis style of anal speculum is one of the oldest designs for surgical instruments still in use, with examples dating back many centuries. The sigmoidoscope can be further advanced into the lower intestinal tract and requires an endoscopic set-up.\n\n\n\n\n\nNasal specula have two relatively flat blades with handle. The instrument is hinged so that when the handles are squeezed together the blades spread laterally, allowing examination.\nAdditionally, the Thudichum nasal speculum is commonly used in the outpatient examination of the nose.\n\nEar or aural specula resemble a funnel, and come in a variety of sizes.\nIn veterinary medicine, a McPherson Speculum can be used for oral examination. The speculum helps keep the mouth open during the exam and helps avoid biting injuries.\n\nSpeculum is used for \"Speculum Play\" under BDSM for spreading the vagina or the anus.\n\n"}
{"id": "58701903", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58701903", "title": "Tana-Beles interbasin water transfer", "text": "Tana-Beles interbasin water transfer\n\nThe Tana-Beles interbasin water transfer takes water from Lake Tana and delivers it to the Beles River via the Tana Beles hydroelectric power plant. The water downstream is also used for irrigation. . \n\nIt was constructed between 2005 and 2010, specifically as a multi-purpose project, but with a major part of construction involving the hydropower plant, 11.8 km headrace tunnel from Lake Tana, and 7.2km tailrace tunnel to the Jehana river (minor tributary of the Beles River) . \n\nWhile Lake Tana and the Beles River are both in the Blue Nile/Abbay basin, water would not usually flow from the lake through this river. The interbasin transfer project therefore provides substantial additional water within the Beles River region (on average 77 m/s ), enabling irrigation development, notably of sugarcane . \n"}
{"id": "35729944", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35729944", "title": "The Bonnie Prudden Show", "text": "The Bonnie Prudden Show\n\nThe Bonnie Prudden Show is a Canadian talk show and exercise television series which aired on CBC Television from 1965 to 1970.\n\nFitness expert Bonnie Prudden combined interview and exercise segments during this series. Subjects included aging, astrology, finance, health and travel. Her guests were from internationally and culturally diverse backgrounds.\n\nSome episodes, especially in the 1967-68 season, were produced on location in such regions as Asia and Australia.\n\nEpisodes were produced in Toronto by Crescendo Productions and Taylor-Roffman Productions Ltd. and broadcast by CBC Television and in US syndication.\n\nThis half-hour series was broadcast on CBC weekdays at 4:00 p.m. in its first season for 65 episodes from 15 November 1965 to 15 February 1966. After skipping new production for 1966-67, other than some limited morning rebroadcasts in early 1967, its final season of 130 programmes in 1967-68 was broadcast from 30 October 1967 to 11 June 1968.\n\nRepeats were broadcast on CBC Television until September 1970.\n"}
{"id": "5720339", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5720339", "title": "Tobacco industry in Argentina", "text": "Tobacco industry in Argentina\n\nThe tobacco industry of Argentina produced 157,294 tonnes of tobacco in the 2003–2004 harvest, most of which (93,327 tonnes) was exported. The planted area was 831.75 km², of which 776 were harvested.\n\nThe tobacco industry is dominated by two transnational companies: Massalin Particulares S.A. (a subsidiary of Philip Morris International, which sells the Marlboro brand, and which in turn is associated with Tabacos Norte S.A.) and Nobleza Piccardo (a subsidiary of British American Tobacco, which sells international brands such as Lucky Strike, Viceroy and Camel, as well as national ones like Jockey and Derby).\n\nTobacco producers are concentrated in the north of the country. The provinces of Jujuy and Salta (in the north-west), and Misiones (in the north-eastern Mesopotamia), are the leading ones, with over 45,000 tonnes/year each. The other tobacco-producing provinces are Tucumán, Corrientes, Chaco and Catamarca.\n\nTobacco plays an important role in the economy of the producing areas, which are comparatively poor provinces. The Argentine tobacco industry employs 500,000 people, about half of them directly involved in the planting and harvesting, only about 2% in the manufacturing of the derived products, and the rest in distribution and sales. Therefore, despite the fact that the consequences of smoking are a major health issue in Argentina, the national government supports the producers by means of a Tobacco Special Fund (\"Fondo Especial del Tabaco\", FET), which consists in a subsidy plus easier access to credit in order to modernize the industry.\n\nAn important number of Argentina's tobacco industry employees are mostly underage workers. The TVPRA \"List of Goods Produced by Child Labor or Forced Labor\" published in December 2014 by the Bureau of International Labor Affairs underlines the existence of such practices in Argentina. The United States Department of Labor reported that despite the implementation of educational programs, \"children in Argentina continue to engage in child labor in agriculture and the worst forms of child labor...\"\n\n\n"}
{"id": "47266526", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47266526", "title": "Vape shop", "text": "Vape shop\n\nA vape shop is a retail store or website specializing in the selling of electronic cigarette products.\n\nE-cigarettes products are mainly available online or in dedicated \"vape\" storefronts. They are also available at grocery stores, conventional retailers, mass retailers, tobacco retailers, convenience stores, gas stations, drug stores, and shopping malls. A vape shop offers a range of e-cigarette products. The majority of vape shops do not sell e-cigarette products that are from \"Big Tobacco\" companies. Vape shops can offer a greater selection of e-cigarettes than conventional retailers. While vape shops offer mostly reusable e-cigarettes, cig-a-likes are mostly available at convenience stores. \n\nVape shops typically offer a diverse selection of e-liquids. Vape shops can buy e-liquids containing 100 mg/mL and dilute them according to the patron's preference. Flavors such as chocolate, caramel, mint, menthol, coffee, cherry, and apple can be added to the liquid nicotine. Vape shops may carry vaping magazines and may offer accessories such as clothing, bags and wooden cases for the e-liquid. Vape shops host music concerts at night. Vape shops are increasing in popularity. Many e-cigarette companies have proposed to retailers the idea to convert part of their current location into a mini vape shop.\n\nVape shops are mainly small, independent businesses. Vape shops are usually interested in a location between 1,200 and 1,500 square feet. They vary in design and product selection. Some look like bars. Some have lounges where people can drink a beverage as they vape. Some vape shops have a vape bar where patrons can test out different e-liquids and socialize. Vape shop customers visit their local vape shop for personalized e-cigarette advice. Vape shop retail workers may show potential customers how to use different e-cigarettes and how to fill the devices with e-liquid. A \"vapologist\" may give advise to potential customers to choosing an e-liquid. Patrons are permitted to vape in most vape shops. \"Cloud-chasing\", the activity of blowing the largest clouds of vapor, is becoming a routine event at some vape shops.\n\nSome vape shop owners choose not to sell vaping products to minors. Vapor store owners use the internet to get information e-cigarettes. Vape shop owners generally believe vaping is a habit. It has been reported that many vape shop owners do not know all of the substances contained in e-liquids.\n\nIn 2013, online search engine searches on vape shops surpassed searches on e-cigarettes. The markup of e-cigarettes as high as 200–400% may play a role in the prevalence of vape shops. In 2014, the Smoke-Free Alternatives Trade Association estimated that there were 35,000 vape shops in the US, more than triple the number a year earlier. There are numerous vape shops in Canada. In 2015, there were about 8,000 vape shops in the UK. In December 2015, there were 2,400 vape shops in France, 400 fewer than in March of the same year. Industry organization Fivape said the reduction was due to consolidation, not to reduced demand.\n\nEffective from 8 August 2016, under the Food and Drug Administration (FDA) rules, a vape shop that mixes or prepares e-liquids, or makes or modifies any kind of e-cigarettes, is regulated as a tobacco product manufacturer. Vape shops cannot hand out free samples to patrons or sell to individuals under 18 years of age. Retailers are required to ask for photo ID from patrons who look to be under 27 years of age.\n\nIn May 2016 the FDA used its authority under the Family Smoking Prevention and Tobacco Control Act to deem e-cigarette devices and e-liquids to be tobacco products, which meant it intended to regulate the marketing, labelling, and manufacture of devices and liquids; vape shops that mix e-liquids or make or modify devices were considered manufacturing sites that needed to register with FDA and comply with good manufacturing practice regulation. Small vape shop businesses are concerned about the FDA regulations. Vape shop owners in the US are concerned about the costs of adhering to the proposed FDA regulations. Some vape shop owners believe the proposed FDA rules might put them out of business. On 5 May 2016, the FDA announced that all tobacco products will be regulated, including e-cigarettes, which require vape shops to register as tobacco companies. The FDA acknowledged that many vape shops will go out of business, but they also state many will stay open, despite hefty costs. Part of the new law requires products to state nicotine is addictive. Some vape shop owners in the US believe a ban on public vaping might put some vape shops out of business because taste-testing would be prohibited.\n\nThe revised Tobacco Products Directive European legislation will regulate the sale and marketing of e-cigarettes. Small business owners are concerned that the new regulation will make e-cigarettes less interesting to consumers and that this means a downturn of their business. In late November 2015, Bill 44 was passed by the National Assembly, which regulates e-cigarettes as tobacco products. It bans using e-cigarettes in vape shops, bans indoor displays and advertising, and bans sales on their websites.\n\nVape trade shows have an array of product vendors, seminars, social interactions with other vapers, parties, gifts, vaping contests, and other activities. By 2015, the number of vaping trade show organizations arranging vape trade shows had grown to 41. This includes 90 trade shows, with 6 set for 2016 in 8 countries. Vape shows were organized in 26 US states. They ranged from smaller local shows to large shows jumping around among cities. Most vape show organizations are in the US. Others are in Belgium, Canada, China, France, Germany, South Africa, and the United Kingdom. Vape shows are free to attend or have an entrance fee that cost from $10 to $25. In 2014, vaping contests at vape trade shows such as cloud-chasing were rare. By 2015, close to 50% of vaping trade show organizations promoted contests such as cloud-chasing. Vaping at the shows is permitted. In July 2015, a New Jersey vape trade show was fined for breaching the state’s 2010 indoor smoke-free law, which bans vaping indoors. Vape trade shows are increasing in popularity and regularity.\n\nVape shows include VapeBash, VapeCon, VapeXpo Vapestock, Vape-a-Palooza, Vapetoberfest, Vapor Gras, and Canada Vape Expo. Vape Fest, which started in 2010, is an annual vape show hosted by different cities across the US. Vape Summit started in 2013. Vapor World Expo began in 2014 at Rosemont, Illinois. In May 2015 at Vape Summit 3 in Las Vegas, there was a cloud-chasing competition. In May 2016 Vape Summit was held in Paris, France. The Vape Expo China, which started in 2015, is an annual vape show held in different cities in China. Vape shop owners, agents, distributors, and vapers attend the trade show.\n"}
{"id": "55441574", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55441574", "title": "Walter H. Clark", "text": "Walter H. Clark\n\nWalter Houston Clark (1902 - Dec 15, 1994) was a professor of psychology of religion at Andover Newton Theological School. He explored religion, mystical experience and use of psychedelics.\n\nClark was born in Westfield, N.J.. He graduated from Williams College in 1928 and received a doctorate in psychology and education from Harvard University in 1944.\n\nIn 1962 he joined Harvard Psychedelic Drug Project. Later he worked at the Worcester Foundation for Experimental Biology and at the Maryland Psychiatric Research Center at Spring Grove State Hospital investigating the effects of psychedelic drugs.\n\nClark was a co-founder and president of the Society for the Scientific Study of Religion. He received the APA Wlliam James Memorial Award for contributions to the psychology of religion.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "23815686", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23815686", "title": "Water and Power Development Authority", "text": "Water and Power Development Authority\n\nThe Water and Power Development Authority (WAPDA) (واٹر اینڈ پاور ڈیولپمنٹ اتھارٹی) is a government-owned public utility maintaining power and water in Pakistan, although it does not manage thermal power. WAPDA includes Tarbela and Mangla dams among its resources. Its headquarters are in Lahore.\n\nWAPDA was established by an act of parliament in 1958 to unify the maintenance of infrastructure previously overseen by provincial agencies. Its Chairmen included outstanding civil servants like Ghulam Ishaq Khan, Ghulam Faruque Khan and Aftab Ghulam Nabi Kazi who were subsequently President of Pakistan, Minister for Commerce and Economic Adviser, respectively. In October 2007, thermal power management was split into the newly formed Pakistan Electric Power Company (PEPCO).\n\nWAPDA has formulated a comprehensive $25–33 billion National Water Resource and Hydropower Development Programme, entitled Water Vision 2025. The Water Vision 2025 projects are expected to generate 16,000 MW of hydroelectricity. Other goals are to prevent water shortages, limit drought and increase water storage for a growing population. Five massive hydropower projects have been announced by the President of Pakistan; these are to be completed by 2016, with a generation capacity of 9,500 MW. Two of the projects are ready for construction, while three are in the stages of feasibility studies and preparation of tender documents.\n\nWater Vision 2025 consists of three phases. Phase I was expected to start in 1993 but was delayed. The priority of water sector projects under Phase I of Water Vision 2025 are Gomal Dam (Khyber Pakhtunkhwa) , Mirani Dam and Mithan Kot Barrage at Kachhi Canal (Balochistan) raising of Mangla Dam (Azad Kashmir), Greater Thal Canal phase I (Punjab) and Thar/ Rainee Canals phase I (Sindh). The total cost of these Phase I projects will be $2.467 billion with a construction period of five years. Under Phase II, Hingol Dam, Balochistan Dam and Satpara Dam (Northern Areas), Chashma Right Bank Canal and Khurram Tangi Dam (NWFP), phase II of the Greater Thal Canal Akhori Dam and Sanjwal Dam (Punjab), phase II of Thar/Rainee Canals, Gajnai and Sehwan Barrage (Sindh) will be completed in 3–6 years, except Basha Dam, which will take 8–10 years for its completion. The total cost of Phase II projects will be $8.94 billion. These 11 projects will have a storage capacity of , would generate over 3362 mW of power, and would irrigate 14000 square kilometres of land. Under Phase III, Yugo Dam, Skardu Dam, Dhok Dam, Rohtas Dam, Naulang Dam and Khadji Dam will be completed.\n\n"}
{"id": "51600168", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51600168", "title": "William Warrick Cardozo", "text": "William Warrick Cardozo\n\nWilliam Warrick Cardozo (1905–1962) was an African-American scientist who pioneered research on individuals suffering from sickle cell anemia. He initially attended Hampton University and later Ohio State University. He was a medical doctor who worked primarily in Washington DC. He additionally worked on the development of African-American children as well as Hodgkin's disease. He died of a heart attack.\n"}
