{"id": "9442611", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9442611", "title": "1923 in radio", "text": "1923 in radio\n\n1923 in radio details the internationally significant events in radio broadcasting for the year 1923.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "15485840", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15485840", "title": "Anti-Jewish violence in Poland, 1944–1946", "text": "Anti-Jewish violence in Poland, 1944–1946\n\nThe anti-Jewish violence in Poland from 1944 to 1946 refers to a series of violent incidents in Poland that immediately followed the end of World War II in Europe and influenced the postwar history of the Jews as well as Polish-Jewish relations. It occurred amid a period of violence and anarchy across the country, caused by lawlessness and anti-communist resistance against the Soviet-backed communist takeover of Poland. The exact number of Jewish victims is a subject of debate with 327 documented cases, and range, estimated by different writers, from 400 to 2,000. Jews constituted between 2% and 3% of the total number of victims of postwar violence in the country, including the Polish Jews who managed to escape the Holocaust on territories of Poland annexed by the Soviet Union, and returned after the border changes imposed by the Allies at the Yalta Conference. The incidents ranged from individual attacks to pogroms. \n\nJewish emigration from Poland surged partly as a result of this violence, but also because Poland was the only Eastern Bloc country to allow free Jewish emigration (\"aliyah\") to Mandatory Palestine. By contrast, the Soviet Union brought Soviet Jews from DP camps back to USSR by force irrespective of their choice. Many Jews did not wish to remain where the German occupation had decimated their previously large communities in Poland; many fled the imposition of the Soviet-backed political regime which persecuted the bourgeoisie and religion, including Judaism; many aimed to pursue the Zionist objectives in Palestine. Uninterrupted traffic across the Polish borders intensified with many Jews passing through on their way west or south. In January 1946, there were 86,000 survivors registered with the Central Committee of Polish Jews (CKŻP). By the end of summer, the number had risen to about 205,000–210,000 (with 240,000 registrations and over 30,000 duplicates). About 180,000 Jewish refugees came from the Soviet Union after the repatriation agreement. Most left without visas or exit permits thanks to a decree of General Marian Spychalski. By the spring of 1947 only 90,000 Jews resided in Poland.\n\nTens of thousands of people were killed in Poland's two-year civil war, but also due to indiscriminate postwar lawlessness and abject poverty. Among the Jewish victims of violence directed against the new government were numerous functionaries of the new Stalinist regime, assassinated by the so-called cursed soldiers of the anti-communist underground, without racial motives, but simply due to their political loyalties. Jan T. Gross noted that \"only a fraction of [the Jewish] deaths could be attributed to anti-semitism.\" Jews were also often victims of ordinary banditry. The Jewish resistance fighter Marek Edelman said: \"murdering Jews was pure banditry, and I wouldn't explain it as anti-Semitism.\" The resentment towards returning Jews among some local Poles included concerns that they would reclaim their property. \n\nA restitution law \"On Abandoned Real Estates\" of May 6, 1945 allowed property owners who had been dispossessed, or their relatives and heirs, to reclaim privately owned property under a simplified inheritance procedure. The law remained in effect until the end of 1948. An expedited court process with minimal costs was put in place to handle claims. Applications had to be examined within 21 days, and many claims were processed the day they were filed. Poles often served as witnesses to corroborate claims of Jewish neighbors and acquaintances. Jewish law firms and agencies outside Poland specialized in submitting applications on behalf of non-residents. Properties were also transferred and sold by Jewish owners outside this process. Thousands of properties were successively reclaimed, for example, more than 520 properties were reclaimed in two county towns of Lublin province alone (281 applications in Zamość, and 240 in Włodawa - some applications involved multiple properties). Given the lax criteria, there were a number of cases of Jews advancing fraudulent property claims. \n\nVast quantities of Jewish property were unclaimed due to Jews being murdered when they sought restitution of family property and due to Jews fleeing postwar Poland. The murders, variously estimated, intimidated Jews from filing claims. Unclaimed Jewish property devolved to the Polish state on 31 December 1948, but many Jews who had fled to the Soviet Union were only repatriated after this date and Jews in displaced persons camps in Germany feared returning to Poland, and those who attempted to do so were usually blocked by the Polish authorities. Polish legislation in 1947 severely restricted interstate succession, limiting inheritance by distant family members. Jews who returned to Poland from the Soviet Union and settled in the territories Poland acquired from Germany were entitled to material compensation on equal footing with ethnic Poles who were displaced from Eastern Poland. Jews were also seen as supporting the consolidation of power in the hands of the Soviet and Polish Stalinist regimes.\n\nAfter the war, Poles and Jews constituted two communities with two different but tragic war experiences, however the relations between Polish and Jewish communities worsened after the Soviet takeover of Poland in 1945. Polish Jewish survivors of the Nazi Holocaust returning home were confronted with fears of being physically assaulted, robbed and even murdered by certain elements in the society. The situation was further complicated by the fact that there were more Jewish survivors returning from the Soviet Union than those who managed to survive in occupied Poland, thus leading to stereotypes holding Jews responsible for the imposition of totalitarian regime in Stalinist Poland.\n\nMembers of the former Communist Party of Poland (KPP) were returning home from the Soviet Union as prominent functionaries of the new regime. Among them was a highly visible number of Poles of Jewish origin, who became active in the Polish Workers' Party/Polish United Workers' Party and the Ministry of Public Security of Poland, among them Hilary Minc, the third in command in Bolesław Bierut's political apparatus and Jakub Berman, head of State Security Services (UB, Urząd Bezpieczeństwa) considered Joseph Stalin's right hand in Poland between 1944 and 1953. Jewish representation in Bolesław Bierut's apparatus of political oppression was considerably higher than their share in the general Polish population. Hypothesis emerged that Stalin had intentionally employed some of them in positions of repressive authority (see Gen. Roman Romkowski, Dir. Anatol Fejgin and others) in order to put Poles and Jews \"on a collision course.\" Study by the Polish Institute of National Remembrance showed that between 1944 and 1954 out of 450 people in director positions in the Ministry, 37.1% (or 167) were Jewish. The underground anti-communist press held them responsible for the murder of Polish opponents of the new regime. Historian Marek Jan Chodakiewicz estimates that in the first years after the war, the Jewish denunciations and direct involvement in the pro-Soviet wave of terror, resulted in the killing of approximately 3,500 to 6,500 non-Jewish Poles including members of the Home Army and National Armed Forces.\n\nAs the victory over Nazi Germany was celebrated in the West, in May 1945, Polish partisans attacked country offices of the PUBP, MO (communist state police), UB and NKVD employing numerous Jewish functionaries. Up to 80 percent of the officers, and 50 percent of the militiamen in Lublin alone, as well as, up to 75 percent of the officers in Silesia were Jewish. According to Eisenstein's estimates, 90 percent of the Jewish functionaries at the state security office in Katowice changed their names to Polish ones after November 10, 1945 for anonymity sake. In May 1945, public security offices were destroyed by the anti-communist underground in Krasnosielc and Annówka (May 1), Kuryłówka (May 7), Grajewo and Białystok (May 9), Siemiatycze and Wyrzyki (May 11), Ostrołęka and Rembertów (May 18–21), Biała Podlaska (May 21, May 24), Majdan-Topiło (Białowieża Forest, May 28), Kotki (Busko-Zdrój) (May 28). Political prisoners were freed – sometimes up to several hundred or more (see, e.g. the attack on Rembertów) – many of whom were later recaptured and murdered. The human rights law violations and the abuse of power by the Ministry only strengthened the anti-Jewish sentiments in Poland, adding to the \"Żydokomuna\" stereotype among ordinary Poles who in general had anti-Communist and anti-Soviet attitudes. Accusations that Jews are being supportive of the new communist regime, and constituted a threat to Poland, came also from some high officials of the Roman Catholic Church.\n\nThe provisions of Yalta agreement allowed Stalin to forcibly return Jewish refugees along with all Soviet nationals from DP camps back to USSR \"irrespective of their personal wishes\". The former Polish citizens, second largest refugee group in the West, did not even began to return until late 1946. Polish–Jewish DPs (25 percent of their grand total in the beginning of 1947) were declared nonrepatriable – due in part to the US pressure – which forced the British government to open the borders of Palestine. By the spring of 1947 the number of Jews in Poland – in large part arriving from the Soviet Union – declined from 240,000 to 90,000 due to mass migration and the post-Holocaust absence of Jewish life in Poland. \"The flight\" (Berihah) of Jews was motivated by the raging civil war on Polish lands, in as much as the efforts of strong Polish-Jewish lobby at the Jewish Agency working towards the higher standard of living and special privileges for the immigrants from Poland. Yitzhak Raphael, director of the Immigration Department – who lobbied on behalf of Polish refugees – insisted on their preferential treatment in Israel.\n\nReports of political repressions by the Communist forces in Poland and the wave of political murders by the security forces under Soviet control were mounting. The United States ambassador to Poland, Arthur Bliss Lane, was troubled by the mass arrests of Polish non-Communists, and their terrorization by the security police. The wave of state-sponsored terror and large-scale deportations was followed by the nationalization decree of January 1946. In response to his protests, Bierut told Lane to \"mind its own business.\"\n\nThe prewar class of Polish intelligentsia ceased to exist. In the country of 23.7 million people in 1946, there were only 40,000 university graduates who survived the genocide; less than 0.2 percent of the general population. Between 1944 and 1956 some 350,000–400,000 Poles were held in Stalinist prisons. Sporadic anti-Jewish disturbances or riots were enticed by the spread of false blood libel accusations against some Jews in Polish towns – Kraków, Kielce, Bytom, Białystok, Bielawa, Częstochowa, Legnica, Otwock, Rzeszów, Sosnowiec, Szczecin, Tarnów. Acts of anti-Jewish violence were also recorded in villages and small towns of central Poland, where the overwhelming majority of attacks occurred. According to Szaynok, the perpetrators of the anti-Jewish actions were seldom punished.\n\nThe Kraków pogrom of August 11, 1945, was the first anti-Jewish riot in postwar Poland, resulting in the shooting death of one woman, Róża Berger, who was hiding from the security forces behind closed doors. A single shot was fired at a locking mechanism which shattered, piercing her body. The immediate cause for the disturbance was a rumour spread by a young hooligan (who later claimed to have been tricked into it) that the corpses of Christian children were hidden at the Kupa Synagogue. During the riot, Jews were attacked in Kazimierz, and other parts of the Old Town. Fire was set in Kupa Synagogue. In total, 145 suspects were arrested including 40 militiamen and 6 soldiers of the WP. In September and October 1945 some 25 of them were charged and 10 of them were sentenced to prison. Shortly after the Kielce pogrom, violence against Jews in Poland had ceased entirely.\n\nA pogrom (the causes of which are still very controversial), erupted in Kielce on July 4, 1946. The rumour that a Polish boy had been kidnapped by Jews but had managed to escape, and that other Polish children had been ritually murdered by Jews – according to Pynsent – ignited a violent public reaction directed at the Jewish Center. Attacks on Jewish residents of Kielce were provoked by units of the communist militia and the Soviet-controlled Polish Army who confirmed the rumors of the kidnapping. Police and soldiers were also the first to fire shots at Jews – according to Szaynok.\n\nHaving analyzed the Kielce pogrom for years, author Krzysztof Kąkolewski (\"Umarły cmentarz\"), came to the conclusion that the Russian NKVD had planned the pogrom in Kielce ahead of time. As he pointed out, there were two very important occasions to be considered that day. In the Nuremberg tribunal, the Katyn massacre committed against the Polish officers was being investigated, a Russian war crime for which the Russians held Germans responsible. Also, there was a celebration of the United States Day taking place, attended in Warsaw by many foreign officials and journalists. It was a perfect time for the NKVD to paint a picture of Poland as being antisemitic, and to blame the Home Army (AK) for the violence. At the time of the pogrom in Kielce, Kąkolewski was 16 years old and lived just few hundred meters from the crime scene. He claims that it was impossible for people to gather out on the street; the police immediately approached any group of 3-4 persons for identification. Furthermore, Kąkolewski claims that the ordinary people were turned away by an army unit that set up a street blockade. The second part of the same building housed members of the communist party, most of them of Jewish origin, who were not attacked at all. Kąkolewski emphasized also that there were more than 300 members of the secret police and army, present at the scene, of whom many were wearing civilian clothes, not to mention some Russian-speaking soldiers that participated in the pogrom. The fact that the high-ranking officials from NKVD were in the town at that moment would also support this theory. Of the 12 persons who faced trial, 9 were sentenced to death. According to Kąkolewski, none of them was responsible for the crime; they have been picked up from the watching crowd by the secret police.\n\nThe pogrom in Kielce resulted in 42 people being murdered and about 50 seriously injured, yet the number of victims does not reflect the impact of the atrocities committed. The Kielce pogrom was a turning point for the postwar history of Polish Jews – according to Michael R. Marrus, as the Zionist underground concluded that there was no future for Jews in Europe. Soon after, Gen. Spychalski signed a decree allowing Jews to leave Poland without visas or exit permits; and the Jewish emigration from Poland increased dramatically. In July 1946, almost 20,000 Jews left Poland. By September, there were approximately 12,000 Jews left. Britain demanded that Poland (among others) halt the Jewish exodus, but their pressure was largely unsuccessful.\n\nA statistical compendium of \"Jewish deaths by violence for which specific record is extant, by month and province\" was compiled by Engel for the Yad Vashem Shoah Resource Center's International School for Holocaust Studies. The study used as a starting point a 1973 report by historian Lucjan Dobroszycki, who wrote that he had \"analyzed records, reports, cables, protocols and press-cuttings of the period pertaining to anti-Jewish assaults and murders in 115 localities\" in which approximately 300 Jewish deaths had been documented.\n\nA number of historians, including Antony Polonsky and Jan T. Gross cite the figures originating from Dobroszycki's 1973 work. Dobroszycki wrote that \"according to general estimates 1,500 Jews lost their lives in Poland from liberation until the summer of 1947\", although historian Jan Gross who cited Dobroszycki, informed that only a fraction of these deaths can be attributed to antisemitism and that most were due to general postwar disorder, political violence and banditry. David Engel wrote that Dobroszycki \"offered no reference for such 'general estimates'\" which \"have not been confirmed by any other investigator\" and \"no proof-text for this figure\" exists, not even a smaller one of 1,000 claimed by Gutman. According to Engel, \"both estimates seem high.\" Other estimates include those of Anna Cichopek claiming more than 1,000 Jews murdered in Poland between 1944 and 1947. According to Stefan Grajek around 1,000 Jews died in the first half of year 1946. Historian Tadeusz Piotrowski estimated that between 1944 and 1947 there were 1,500–2,000 Jewish victims of general civil strife that came about with Soviet consolidation of power, constituting 2 to 3 percent of the total number of victims of postwar violence in the country.\n\nIn the \"Yad Vashem Studies\" paper, Holocaust historian David Engel wrote:\nThe data from the Yad Vashem study are reproduced in the table below. Engel wrote that the compilation of cases is not exhaustive, suggesting that cases of anti-Jewish violence were selectively reported and recorded, and that there was no centralized, systematic effort record these cases. He cites numerous incidental reports of killings of Jews that for which no official reporting has survived. He concludes that these figures have \"obvious weaknesses\" and that the detailed records used to compile them are clearly deficient and lacking data from Białystok region. For example, Engel cites one source that shows a total of 108 Jewish deaths during March 1945, and another source that shows 351 deaths between November 1944 and December 1945.\n\nChodakiewicz's estimates for Jewish deaths in Poland after World War II are somewhat higher than Engel's. In \"After the Holocaust,\" Chodakiewicz states: \"In sum, probably a minimum of 400 and a maximum of 700 Jews and persons of Jewish origin perished in Poland from July 1944 to January 1947.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "32820223", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32820223", "title": "Bernard Andrieu", "text": "Bernard Andrieu\n\nBernard Andrieu (born 24 December 1959 in Agen) is a French philosopher and historian of the body.\n\nAndrieu studied in Bordeaux from 1978 to 1984. He is a professor at the University of Nancy.\nHe has written on the philosophy of neuroscience and the mind-body problem, as well as the history of bodily practices such as tanning, touch, the open air, and immersion. He is the editor of a 450-article \"Dictionary of the Body\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "57996185", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57996185", "title": "Bethel-Christian Avenue-Laurel Hill Historical District", "text": "Bethel-Christian Avenue-Laurel Hill Historical District\n\nBethel-Christian Avenue-Laurel Hill Historical District is a Setauket, Long Island, New York neighborhood that was nominated for preservation as an endangered historic site in 2017.\nThe Bethel-Christian Avenue-Laurel Hill District on Long Island's north shore has roots back to the 1600s, when displaced African-American slaves and Native Americans from the Setalcott tribe settled in the area.\n\nThe historical district includes Bethel AME Church and the Laurel Hill Cemetery.\n\nColonists from New England purchased land in 1655 from the Setalcott Indians and began peaceably living there at what was then a 'tract of land extending from Stony Brook to and including Port Jefferson'.\n\nDuring the revolutionary war the Setalket harbor was across Long Island Sound from Fairfield, Conn. The British had consolidated their hold on New York City and Long Island during the winter months of early 1777, while the Continental Army established a land blockade around the city in New Jersey, southern New York, and southwestern Connecticut. On the night of August 21, Colonel Samuel Blachley Webb and his regiment set out across Long Island Sound in whaleboats, taking a few small brass cannons. Early the next morning they landed at Crane's Neck (in present-day Old Field, just west of Setauket), and marched to Setauket. The resulting battle ended when the Minutemen could not breach the breastworks around the Presbyterian meeting house and they retreated across the sound with a few dozen trophy horses and some quilts.\n\nAn 1853 document states that in the year 1815, slave owners Isaac Satterly and Benjamin F. Thompson took legal action to designate land along Christian Avenue, in Setauket, as a cemetery for people of color. This site is still known as Laurel Hill Cemetery, which has been under the trusteeship of Bethel AME Church since 1871.\n\nIn 1848 A tract of land was deeded to the Bethel AME, for the site of the original church, which was destroyed by fire in 1871. Old Bethel Cemetery on Christian Avenue in Stony Brook was the location of the first Bethel AME Church in the area. This deed provided 1/8th acre of land to the church board for a church. A line of stones laying on the ground behind the front of a line of gravestones marks the building's original foundation. The church moved to the current location in 1871 and the new church was built in 1874. It was also in 1871 that the trustees took control of the Laurel Hill Cemetery. The new church was destroyed by fire in 1909 but was quickly rebuilt.\n\nPreservations acknowledged the area is one of the last remaining intact communities that represents the African-American and Native American population on Long Island. MAP - BCALH\n\nThe indigenous Setalcott Native American tribe were in Setalket when Europeans first landed. The sachems Warawakmy and Mahue gave permission for land use to the whites, who subsequently brought African slaves to the Town of Brookhaven about the year 1670. Subsequent generations of Setalcotts and Africans intermarried, the Harts and the Sells, Eato, Lewis, Edwards, Phillips, Scott, Green, Seaman, Young, and Tobias families forming a blend of natives and blacks. Most found work as servants and laborers, the population was organized, economically stable, and has persisted into the present. They were prohibited at the time from living elsewhere in the district and the pastoral guidance of the church created a community separate from the whites.\n\nThe BCALH historic district was designated in 2005 and is an attempt at preserving the history and culture of the people still living in that area. The Christian Avenue community is a 'distinct and indigenous way of life that has survived in Setauket for centuries'. Threatened in 2007 a community group was formed to get further recognition for the area, aided by preservationists and archeologists at Stony Brook University the documentation needed for its survival was archived and catalogued. The districts predominantly Native and African American homes were not included in any of the Three Village historic districts and was not protected by any preservation laws. Setauket gentrified in the late 20th Century and some homes have been sold and demolished. They are removed from historical memory and subsequently excluded from the historic preservation measures that protect other sites in Old Setauket, the presence of the minority community gets smaller with each decade. The active efforts by community members, local school groups and college students culminated in the historical preservation project called- 'A Long Time Coming'. The goals were to help BCALH resist a common trend of historic minority community displacements across the United States by tax increases and gentrification which caused them to be pushed out from where they have been for generations.\n\nDevelopments include the \"Christian Avenue School\" – Original buildings dating back from earlier part of the century which were used for Kindergarten and 1st grade before closing in late 1970s. They were demolished and redeveloped as residential homes in the 1990s.\n\nThe BCALH historic district stood out from other sites in Long Island because it recognized both the historic and the cultural significance of the blended Native and African American community. The district includes the Laurel Hill cemetery, the church, an American Legion building and 30 homes.\n\nThe Setalcott tribe is not recognized by the Bureau of Indian Affairs (BIA) due to the size of the remaining tribe members and their self-identification.\n\nThe home of one of Bethel AME Church's first pastors has been recently added to the Society for the Preservation of Long Island Antiquities List of Endangered Historic Places. Richard Hawkins, a local resident had owned the property, He was known as a broker for African-American buyers who during the Jim Crow era could not get a loan from traditional sources.\n\nThe Rev David Eato's House is located in BCALH's District and is currently owned by the Bethel African Methodist Episcopal Church and was proposed to be restored by the society. Eato, one of the church's first pastors, and his wife Mary Baker, a freed slave from the south lived there until the 30's. Bethel AME historian, Carlton \"Hub\" Edwards, said when Mary moved to the North after being freed from slavery she settled in Port Washington where she was an organist at a church. It was there that she met Eato and, after marrying, the couple moved to Setauket and the reverend became one of the first ministers of Setauket's Bethel AME in the early 1900s. Mary took on the role of superintendent of the Sunday school and held the position until the late 1930s.\n\nIn 2013 the Three Village Community trust acquired the Hawkins Homestead which was listed on the National Register of Historic Places in 1988. It is on Christian Ave in Setauket.\n\nOn the other side of Lake St is the lower half of the Setauket Mill Pond with Main St on the opposite shore. 1/2 mile down Main St is Patriots Rock at 108-114 Main St, East Setauket, NY. It is part of the larger Old Setauket Historical District. There is a plaque memorialising it as the spot where Col. Webb fired his cannons during the revolutionary war.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "47784266", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47784266", "title": "Black Cultural Archives", "text": "Black Cultural Archives\n\nBlack Cultural Archives (BCA) was founded in 1981, by educationalist and historian Len Garrison and others. BCA's mission is to record, preserve and celebrate the history of people of African descent in Britain. The BCA's new building in Brixton, opened in 2014, enables access to the archive collection, provides dedicated learning spaces and mounts a programme of exhibitions and events.\n\nIn 1981, Len Garrison and other members of the Black British community started a collection, originally housed in Coldharbour Lane in Brixton and later based in Kennington, that sought to redress the historical imbalance of the representation of black people in Britain.\n\nIn 2010 the BCA won major funding, including £5million from the Heritage Lottery Fund (HLF) and the London Development Agency, and moved back to Brixton to become the UK's first national black heritage centre. A site dedication ceremony took place in June 2013, and the new BCA building – a Grade II-listed Georgian building, the former Raleigh Hall – at 1 Windrush Square, was officially opened on 24 July 2014. Designed by architects Pringle Richards Sharratt, it was named in 2015 as \"Building of the Year\" in the New London Architecture awards.\n\nIn 2008, a two-year HLF-funded project called \"Documenting the Archive\" enabled the cataloguing of BCA's collections of books, objects, and archives, which \"document the hidden stories and experiences of Black people either through personal and family journeys or through the rich network of Black-led community organisations\", and \"celebrate Black achievements \"alongside the strong sense of campaigning and resistance to racial inequalities.\" BCA's records are also accessible through an online catalogue.\n\nBCA's inaugural exhibition was \"Re-imagine: Black Women in Britain\" (24 July–30 November 2014), which chronicled \"the often hidden histories of Britain’s black foremothers\", including Mary Seacole, Mary Prince, Adelaide Hall, Olive Morris, Jessica Huntley, among others. In October 2016 this exhibition was launched online as part of the Google Cultural Institute.\n\nBCA worked over a period of years with the Victoria and Albert Museum to acquire photographs either by black photographers or that document the lives of black people in Britain, complemented by a range or oral histories. The resultant exhibition in 2015 was entitled \"Staying Power: Photographs of Black British Experience, 1950s – 1990\" (inspired by the 1984 book by Peter Fryer \"Staying Power: The History of Black People in Britain\").\n\nThe exhibition \"Black Georgians: The Shock of the Familiar\", from 9 October 2015 to 4 June 2016, featured the everyday lives of Black people in Britain during the Georgian period (1714–1830), with a special feature by Christy Symington on Olaudah Equiano.\n\nOn 16 February 2017, BCA received a royal visit from Charles, Prince of Wales, and the Duchess of Cornwall, during which Prince Charles praised the contribution of people from West Indies and Africa in World War 1 and World War 2.\n\n"}
{"id": "51032", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51032", "title": "Braunschweig", "text": "Braunschweig\n\nBraunschweig (; Low German: \"Brunswiek\" ), also called Brunswick in English, is a city in Lower Saxony, Germany, north of the Harz mountains at the farthest navigable point of the Oker River which connects it to the North Sea via the Aller and Weser Rivers. In 2016, it had a population of 250,704.\n\nA powerful and influential centre of commerce in medieval Germany, Braunschweig was a member of the Hanseatic League from the 13th until the 17th century. It was the capital city of three successive states: the Principality of Brunswick-Wolfenbüttel (1269–1432, 1754–1807, and 1813–1814), the Duchy of Brunswick (1814–1918), and the Free State of Brunswick (1918–1946).\n\nToday, Braunschweig is the second-largest city in Lower Saxony and a major centre of scientific research and development.\n\nThe date and circumstances of the town's foundation are unknown. Tradition maintains that Braunschweig was created through the merger of two settlements, one founded by Brun(o), a Saxon count who died in 880, on one side of the River Oker – the legend gives the year 861 for the foundation – and the other the settlement of a legendary Count Dankward, after whom Dankwarderode Castle (\"Dankward's clearing\"), which was reconstructed in the 19th century, is named. The town's original name of \"Brunswik\" is a combination of the name Bruno and Low German \"wik\" (related to the Latin \"vicus\"), a place where merchants rested and stored their goods. The town's name therefore indicates an ideal resting-place, as it lay by a ford across the Oker River. Another explanation of the city's name is that it comes from \"Brand\", or burning, indicating a place which developed after the landscape was cleared through burning. The city was first mentioned in documents from the St. Magni Church from 1031, which give the city's name as \"Brunesguik\".\n\nUp to the 12th century, Braunschweig was ruled by the Saxon noble family of the Brunonids, then, through marriage, it fell to the House of Welf. In 1142, Henry the Lion of the House of Welf became duke of Saxony and made Braunschweig the capital of his state (which, from 1156 on, also included the Duchy of Bavaria). He turned Dankwarderode Castle, the residence of the counts of Brunswick, into his own \"Pfalz\" and developed the city further to represent his authority. Under Henry's rule, the Cathedral of St. Blasius was built and he also had the statue of a lion, his heraldic animal, erected in front of the castle. The lion subsequently became the city's landmark.\n\nHenry the Lion became so powerful that he dared to refuse military aid to the emperor Frederick I Barbarossa, which led to his banishment in 1182. Henry went into exile in England. He had previously established ties to the English crown in 1168, through his marriage to King Henry II of England's daughter Matilda, sister of Richard the Lionheart. However, his son Otto, who could regain influence and was eventually crowned Holy Roman Emperor, continued to foster the city's development.\n\nDuring the Middle Ages, Braunschweig was an important center of trade, one of the economic and political centers in Northern Europe and a member of the Hanseatic League from the 13th century to the middle of the 17th century. By the year 1600, Braunschweig was the seventh largest city in Germany. Although formally one of the residences of the rulers of the Duchy of Brunswick-Lüneburg, a constituent state of the Holy Roman Empire, Braunschweig was \"de facto\" ruled independently by a powerful class of patricians and the guilds throughout much of the Late Middle Ages and the Early modern period. Because of the growing power of Braunschweig's burghers, the Princes of Brunswick-Wolfenbüttel, who ruled over one of the subdivisions of Brunswick-Lüneburg, finally moved their \"Residenz\" out of the city and to the nearby town of Wolfenbüttel in 1432. The Princes of Brunswick-Wolfenbüttel didn't regain control over the city until the late 17th century, when Rudolph Augustus, Duke of Brunswick-Lüneburg, took the city by siege. In the 18th century Braunschweig was not only a political, but also a cultural centre. Influenced by the philosophy of the Enlightenment, dukes like Anthony Ulrich and Charles I became patrons of the arts and sciences. In 1745 Charles I founded the \"Collegium Carolinum\", predecessor of the Braunschweig University of Technology, and in 1753 he moved the ducal residence back to Braunschweig. With this he attracted poets and thinkers such as Lessing, Leisewitz, and Jakob Mauvillon to his court and the city. \"Emilia Galotti\" by Lessing and Goethe's \"Faust\" were performed for the first time in Braunschweig.\n\nIn 1806, the city was captured by the French during the Napoleonic Wars and became part of the short-lived Napoleonic Kingdom of Westphalia in 1807. The exiled duke Frederick William raised a volunteer corps, the Black Brunswickers, who fought the French in several battles.\n\nAfter the Congress of Vienna in 1815, Braunschweig was made capital of the reestablished independent Duchy of Brunswick, later a constituent state of the German Empire from 1871. In the aftermath of the July Revolution in 1830, in Brunswick duke Charles II was forced to abdicate. His absolutist governing style had previously alienated the nobility and bourgeoisie, while the lower classes were disaffected by the bad economic situation. During the night of 7–8 September 1830, the ducal palace in Braunschweig was stormed by an angry mob, set on fire, and destroyed completely. Charles was succeeded by his brother William VIII. During William's reign, liberal reforms were made and Brunswick's parliament was strengthened.\n\nDuring the 19th century, industrialisation caused a rapid growth of population in the city, eventually causing Braunschweig to be for the first time significantly enlarged beyond its medieval fortifications and the River Oker. On 1 December 1838, the first section of the Brunswick–Bad Harzburg railway line connecting Braunschweig and Wolfenbüttel opened as the first railway line in Northern Germany, operated by the Duchy of Brunswick State Railway.\n\nOn 8 November 1918, at the end of World War I, a socialist workers' council forced Duke Ernest Augustus to abdicate. On 10 November, the council proclaimed the Socialist Republic of Brunswick under one-party government by the Independent Social Democratic Party of Germany (USPD); however, the subsequent Landtag election on 22 December 1918 was won by the Social Democratic Party of Germany (MSPD), and the USPD and MSPD formed a coalition government. An uprising in Braunschweig in 1919, led by the communist Spartacus League, was defeated when \"Freikorps\" troops under Georg Ludwig Rudolf Maercker took over the city on order of the German Minister of Defence, Gustav Noske. An SPD-led government was subsequently established; in December 1921 a new constitution was approved for the Free State of Brunswick, now a parliamentary republic within the Weimar Republic, again with Braunschweig as its capital.\n\nAfter the Landtag election of 1930, Brunswick became the second state in Germany where the Nazis participated in government, when the National Socialist German Workers' Party (NSDAP) formed a coalition government with several conservative and right-wing parties. With the support of Dietrich Klagges, Brunswick's minister of the interior, the NSDAP organized a large SA rally in Braunschweig. On 17–18 October 1931, 100,000 SA stormtroopers marched through the city, street fights between Nazis, socialists and communists left several dead or injured. On 25 February 1932, the state of Brunswick granted Adolf Hitler German citizenship to allow him to run in the 1932 German presidential election. In Braunschweig, Nazis carried out several attacks on political enemies, with the acquiescence of the state government.\n\nAfter the Nazi seizure of power in 1933, several state institutions were placed in Braunschweig, including the \"Luftfahrtforschungsanstalt\" in Völkenrode, the Hitler Youth Academy for Youth Leadership, and the \"SS-Junkerschule Braunschweig\". With the Reichswerke Hermann Göring in Salzgitter and the Stadt des KdF-Wagens, as well as several factories in the city itself (including Büssing and the Volkswagenwerk Braunschweig), the Braunschweig region became one of the centres of the German arms industry.\n\nDuring the Second World War, Braunschweig was an \"Untergebiet Hauptquartier\" (\"Sub-Area Headquarters\") of Wehrkreis XI (\"Military District XI\"), and was the garrison city of the 31st Infantry Division that took part in the invasions of Poland, Belgium, and France, largely being destroyed during its retreat following the invasion of Russia. In this period, thousands of Eastern workers were brought to the city as forced labor, and in the 1943–1945 period at least 360 children taken away from such workers died in the \"Entbindungsheim für Ostarbeiterinnen\" (\"Maternity Ward for Eastern Workers\").\n\nIn 1944, a subcamp of the concentration camp Neuengamme was established in Braunschweig. Hundreds of prisoners, mostly Jews, lived in brutal conditions and hundreds died from hunger, disease, and overwork. Piera Sonnino, an Italian author, writes of her imprisonment in that camp in her book, \"This Has Happened\", published in English in 2006 by MacMillan Palgrave.\n\nThe Anglo-American air raid on October 15, 1944, destroyed most of the city's churches, and the \"Altstadt\" (old town), the largest homogeneous ensemble of half-timbered houses in Germany. The city's cathedral, which had been converted to a \"Nationale Weihestätte\" (national shrine) by the Nazi government, still stood.\n\nSmall sections of the city survived Allied bombing, so remain to represent its distinctive architecture. The cathedral was restored to its function as a Protestant church.\n\nPolitically, after the war, the Free State of Brunswick was dissolved by the Allied occupying authorities, Braunschweig ceased to be a capital, and most of its lands were incorporated in the newly formed state of Lower Saxony.\n\nDuring the Cold War, Braunschweig, then part of West Germany, suffered economically due to its proximity to the Iron Curtain. The city lost its historically strong economic ties to what was then East Germany; for decades, economic growth remained below and unemployment stayed above the West German average.\n\nOn 28 February 1974, as part of a district reform in Lower Saxony, the rural district of Braunschweig, which had surrounded the city, was disestablished. The major part of the former district was incorporated into the city of Braunschweig, increasing its population by roughly 52,000 people.\n\nIn the 1990s, efforts increased to reconstruct historic buildings that had been destroyed in the air raid. The façade of the \"Braunschweiger Schloss\" was rebuilt, and buildings such as the \"Alte Waage\" (originally built in 1534) now stand again.\n\n, the population of Braunschweig was 252,768. Today Braunschweig is among the twenty German cities found to be most attractive to young people between the ages of 25 and 34, leading to an influx of younger residents.\n\nIn 2015, 91,785 people or 36.3% of the population were Protestant and 34,604 (13.7%) people were Roman Catholic; 126,379 people (50.0%) either adhered to other denominations or followed no religion.\n\nA total of 64,737 of Braunschweig's residents, including German citizens, had an immigrant background in 2015 (25.6% of the total population). Among those, 25,676 were non-German citizens (10.2%); the following table lists up the largest minority groups:\n\n\nParks and gardens in the city include the botanical garden \"Botanischer Garten der Technischen Universität Braunschweig\", founded in 1840 by Johann Heinrich Blasius, the \"Bürgerpark\", the \"Löwenwall\" with an obelisk from 1825, the \"Prinz-Albrecht-Park\", and the \"Inselwallpark\". Other parks and recreation areas are \"Stadtpark\", \"Westpark\", \"Theaterpark\", \"Museumpark\", \"Heidbergsee\", \"Südsee\", \"Ölpersee\", the zoological garden \"Arche Noah Zoo Braunschweig\" and the nearby Essehof Zoo.\n\nBraunschweig is made up of 19 boroughs (German: \"Stadtbezirke\"), which themselves may consist of several quarters (German: \"Stadtteile\") each. The 19 boroughs, with their official numbers, are:\n\nFormed in 2011 out of the former boroughs of Wabe-Schunter and Bienrode-Waggum-Bevenrode.\n\nThe council of the city is made up of the fractions of the different parties (54 seats) and the lord mayor, who is elected directly, with one seat. Since 2014, the lord mayor of Braunschweig is Ulrich Markurth (SPD). Results of the most recent local elections on 11 September 2011 and 11 September 2016 were:\n\nBraunschweig is twinned with:\n\nBraunschweig's city centre is mostly a car-free pedestrian zone.\n\nTwo main autobahns serve Braunschweig, the A2 (Berlin—Hanover—Dortmund) and the A39 (Salzgitter—Wolfsburg). City roads are generally wide, built after World War II to support the anticipated use of the automobile. There are several car parks in the city.\n\nMany residents travel around town by bicycle using an extensive system of bicycle-only lanes. The main train station includes a bicycle parking area.\n\nThe city is on the main rail line between Frankfurt and Berlin. Deutsche Bahn (German Railways) serves the city with local, inter-city and high-speed InterCityExpress (ICE) trains, with frequent stops at Braunschweig Central Station (German: \"Braunschweig Hauptbahnhof\").\n\nThe Braunschweig tramway network is an inexpensive and extensive long electric tramway system. First opened in 1897, it has been modernized, including a extension in 2007. The network has an gauge, unique for a European railway or tramway network. However, it is being supplemented in stages by a third rail, to allow future joint working with the main railway network.\n\nThe municipally owned Braunschweiger Verkehrs-AG currently operates five tram lines and several bus lines. The tram lines are:\n\nThe Braunschweig Airport (BWE / EDVE) is located north of the city at , elev. \n\nMany other geographical locations around the world are named Brunswick, after the historical English name of Braunschweig. Between 1714 and 1837, the House of Hanover ruled Great Britain in personal union with the Electorate of Brunswick-Lüneburg (Hanover). The House of Hanover was formally known as the House of Brunswick-Lüneburg, Hanover line. As a result, many places in the British colonies were named after Brunswick, such as the province of New Brunswick in Canada.\n\nIronically, the city of Braunschweig was not ruled by the Hanoverians while its name was being given to other Brunswicks around the world. Starting in 1269, the Duchy of Brunswick-Lüneburg underwent a series of divisions and mergers, with parts of the territory being transferred between various branches of the family. The city of Braunschweig went to the senior branch of the house, the Wolfenbüttel line, while Lüneburg eventually ended up with the Hanover line. Although the territory had been split, all branches of the family continued to style themselves as the House of Brunswick-Lüneburg. In 1884, the senior branch of the House of Welf became extinct. The Hanover line, being the last surviving line of the family, subsequently held the throne of the Duchy of Brunswick from November 1913 until November 1918.\n\nThe offices of the Luftfahrt-Bundesamt (LBA, \"Federal Aviation Office\") and the German Federal Bureau of Aircraft Accident Investigation (BFU) are located in Braunschweig.\n\nBraunschweig has been an important industrial area.\nToday it is known for its University and research institutes, mainly the \"Johann Heinrich von Thuenen Institute\", the \"Julius Kühn-Institut\", and the \"Institute for Animal Food\" of the Friedrich Loeffler Institute, until the end of 2007 all part of the Federal Agricultural Research Centre, the German Collection of Microorganisms and Cell Cultures, and the Physikalisch-Technische Bundesanstalt (PTB). The PTB Braunschweig maintains the atomic clock responsible for the DCF77 time signal and the official German time. In 2006 the region of Braunschweig was the most R&D-intensive area in the whole European Economic Area investing 7.1% of its GDP for research & technology. In 2014, the figure had risen to 7.7%, making Braunschweig retain its ranking as the most R&D-intensive region in Germany. Braunschweig was named Germany's \"City of Science 2007\" ().\n\nBraunschweig University of Technology (German: \"Technische Universität Braunschweig\") was founded in 1745 and is the oldest member of TU9, an incorporated society of the nine most prestigious, oldest, and largest universities focusing on engineering and technology in Germany. With approximately 18,000 students, Braunschweig University of Technology is the third largest university in Lower Saxony.\n\nAlso located in Braunschweig is the \"Martino-Katharineum\" (), a secondary school founded in 1415. It had such famous pupils as Carl Friedrich Gauss, Hoffmann von Fallersleben, Richard Dedekind and Louis Spohr. Since 2004, Braunschweig also has an \"International School\". Other notable secondary schools include the Gymnasium Neue Oberschule, Gymnasium Gaussschule, \"Gymnasium Kleine Burg\" (), \"Hoffmann-von-Fallersleben-Schule Braunschweig\" (), \"Integrierte Gesamtschule Franzsches Feld\" (), and \"Wilhelm-Gymnasium\" ().\n\nLower Saxony's only university of art, founded in 1963, can be found in Braunschweig, the \"Hochschule für Bildende Künste Braunschweig\" (Braunschweig College of Fine Arts). The HBK is an institution of higher artistic and scientific education and offers the opportunity to study for interdisciplinary artistic and scientific qualifications. Additionally, one of the campuses of the Eastphalia University of Applied Sciences (German: \"Ostfalia Hochschule für angewandte Wissenschaften\", formerly \"Fachhochschule Braunschweig/Wolfenbüttel\") was located in the city until 2010.\n\nIn 2015, the German weekly business news magazine \"Wirtschaftswoche\" ranked Braunschweig as one of the most dynamic economic spaces in all of Germany.\n\nBraunschweig was one of the centres of the industrialization in Northern Germany. During the 19th and early 20th century the canning and railroad industries and the sugar production were of great importance for Braunschweig's economy, but eventually other branches such as the automotive industry became more important, while especially the canning industry began to vanish from the city after the end of World War II. The defunct truck and bus manufacturer Büssing was headquartered in Braunschweig. Current factories in the city include Volkswagen, Siemens, Bombardier Transportation, and Bosch.\n\nThe fashion label NewYorker, the publishing house Westermann Verlag, Nordzucker, Volkswagen Financial Services and Volkswagen Bank have their headquarters in the city as well as the Volkswagen utility vehicle holding. Also two major optical companies were headquartered in Braunschweig: Voigtländer and Rollei.\n\nDuring the 1980s and early 1990s the computer companies Atari and Commodore International both had branches for development and production within the city.\n\nBraunschweig is the home of two piano companies, both known worldwide for the high quality of their instruments: Schimmel and Grotrian-Steinweg. Both companies were founded in the 19th century. Additionally is based in Braunschweig.\n\nBraunschweig is famous for \"Till Eulenspiegel\", a medieval jester who played many practical jokes on its citizens.\nIt also had many breweries, and still a very peculiar kind of beer is made called \"Mumme\", first quoted in 1390, a malt-extract that was shipped all over the world. Two major breweries still produce in Braunschweig, the \"\", founded in 1627, and the former \"\" brewery, founded in 1871, now operated by Oettinger Beer.\n\nBraunschweiger Mettwurst, a soft, spreadable smoked pork sausage, is named after the city. Other traditional local dishes include white asparagus, \"Braunschweiger Lebkuchen\", \"Braunkohl\" (a variant of kale served with Bregenwurst), and \"Uhlen un Apen\" (Low German for \"Owls and Guenons\", a pastry).\n\nBraunschweig's major local newspaper is the \"Braunschweiger Zeitung\", first published in 1946. Papers formerly published in Braunschweig include the \"Braunschweigische Anzeigen\"/\"Braunschweigische Staatszeitung\" (1745–1934), the \"Braunschweigische Landeszeitung\" (1880–1936) and the \"Braunschweiger Stadtanzeiger\"/\"Braunschweiger Allgemeiner Anzeiger\" (1886–1941), and the social-democratic \"\" (1871–1933).\n\nNear Braunschweig at Cremlingen-Abbenrode, there is a large medium wave transmitter, which transmits the program of \"Deutschlandfunk\" on 756 kHz, the Cremlingen transmitter.\n\n\"\", a medieval Northern German form of carnival was celebrated in Braunschweig as early as the 13th century. Since 1979 an annual Rosenmontag parade is held in Braunschweig, the largest in Northern Germany, which is named Schoduvel in honour of the medieval custom.\n\nAn annual \"Weihnachtsmarkt\" (Christmas market) is held in late November and December on the Burgplatz in the centre of Braunschweig. In 2008 the market had 900,000 visitors.\n\nThe city's most important museum is the Herzog Anton Ulrich Museum, a well known art museum and the oldest public museum in Germany, founded in 1754. It houses a collection of masters of Western art, including Dürer, Giorgione, Cranach, Holbein, Van Dyck, Vermeer, Rubens, and Rembrandt.\n\nThe State Museum of Brunswick (\"Braunschweigisches Landesmuseum\"), founded in 1891, houses a permanent collection documenting the history of the Brunswick area ranging from its early history to the present.\n\nThe Municipal Museum of Brunswick (\"Städtisches Museum Braunschweig\"), founded in 1861, is a museum for art and cultural history, documenting the history of the city of Braunschweig.\n\nThe State Natural History Museum is a zoology museum founded in 1754.\n\nOther museums in the city include the Museum of Photography (\"Museum für Photographie\"), the Jewish Museum (\"Jüdisches Museum\"), the Museum for Agricultural Technology \"Gut Steinhof\", and the Gerstäcker-Museum. Frequent exhibitions of contemporary art are also held by the Art Society of Braunschweig (German: \"Kunstverein Braunschweig\"), housed in the \"Villa Salve Hospes\", a classicist villa built between 1805 and 1808.\n\nThe \"Braunschweig Classix Festival\" was an annual classical music festival. It is the largest promoter of classical music in the region and one of the most prominent music festivals in Lower Saxony.\n\nFrom 2001 to 2009, and again since 2013, the annual finals of the international breakdance competition Battle of the Year have been held at the Volkswagen Halle in Braunschweig.\n\n\"Braunschweiger TSC\" is among the leading competitive formation dance teams in the world and has won multiple World and European championship titles.\n\nBraunschweig's major local football team is Eintracht Braunschweig. Founded in 1895, Eintracht Braunschweig can look back on a long and chequered history. Eintracht Braunschweig won the German football championship in 1967, and currently plays in the 3. Bundesliga, the third tier of German football, and attracts a large number of supporters. Braunschweig was also arguably the city in which the first ever game of football in Germany took place. The game had been brought to Germany by the local school teacher Konrad Koch, also the first to write down a German version of the rules of football, who organized the first match between pupils from his school \"Martino-Katharineum\" in 1874. The 2011 German drama film Lessons of a Dream is based on Koch.\n\nEintracht Braunschweig also fields a successful women's field hockey team that claimed nine national championship titles between 1965 and 1978. In the past, the club also had first or second tier teams in the sports of ice hockey, field handball, and water polo.\n\nThe New Yorker Lions (formerly Braunschweig Lions) are the city's American football team, winning a record number of eleven German Bowl titles, as well as five Eurobowls (a shared record).\n\nThe city's professional basketball team, the Basketball Löwen Braunschweig, plays in the Basketball Bundesliga, the highest level in Germany. The Löwen's predecessor SG Braunschweig had previously played in the Bundesliga as well. Eintracht Braunschweig's women's basketball team plays in the , the second tier of women's basketball in Germany.\n\nIn handball, MTV Braunschweig, the city's oldest sports club (founded in 1847), plays in the semi-professional .\n\nOther sports clubs from Braunschweig that play or have played at the Bundesliga or 2nd Bundesliga level include (baseball), (field hockey), (handball), Rugby-Welfen Braunschweig (rugby union), and (volleyball).\n\nAnnual sporting events held in Braunschweig include the international equestrian tournament \"Löwen Classics\", \"Rund um den Elm\", Germany's oldest road bicycle race, and the professional tennis tournament \"Sparkassen Open\".\n\nAlphabetical list of some notable people associated with Braunschweig:\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "34784181", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34784181", "title": "British Mandate for Palestine (legal instrument)", "text": "British Mandate for Palestine (legal instrument)\n\nThe British Mandate for Palestine (valid 29 September 1923 – 15 May 1948), also known as the Mandate for Palestine or the Palestine Mandate, was a \"Class A\" League of Nations mandate for the territories of Palestine, in which the Balfour Declaration's \"national home for the Jewish people\" was to be established, and Transjordan, a separate Arab Emirate, both of which were conceded by the Ottoman Empire following World War I.\n\nThe draft was formally confirmed by the Council of the League of Nations on 24 July 1922 and came into effect on 29 September 1923, with the United Kingdom as the administering mandatory.\n\nThe document was based on the principles contained in Article 22 of the Covenant of the League of Nations of 28 June 1919 and of the San Remo Resolution of 25 April 1920, which embodied decisions made after World War I at the San Remo conference, where the Supreme Council of the Principal Allied Powers was reconvened. The objective of the system of Class A mandates was to administer parts of the defunct Ottoman Empire, which had been in control of the Middle East since the 16th century, \"until such time as they are able to stand alone\". The approximate northern border with the French Mandate was agreed upon in the Paulet–Newcombe Agreement of 23 December 1920.\n\nTransjordan was included in the mandate following a March 1921 conference at which it was agreed that Abdullah bin Hussein would administer the territory under the auspices of the Palestine Mandate. After the war it had been administered from Damascus by a joint Arab-British military administration, headed by Abdullah's younger brother Faisal, who was subsequently proclaimed King. Transjordan became a no man's land after the French removed Faisal in the July 1920 Battle of Maysalun; during which period the British chose to avoid any definite connection with Palestine. This was given legal form on 21 March 1921 when the British introduced Article 25 into the Palestine Mandate, which included Transjordan within the scope and allowed the Mandatory there \"to postpone or withhold application of such provisions of this mandate as he may consider inapplicable to the existing local conditions.\" On 16 September 1922, Article 25 was implemented via the Trans-Jordan memorandum, which established a separate \"Administration of Trans-Jordan\" for the application of the Mandate, under the general supervision of Great Britain. Transjordan became largely autonomous under British tutelage according to an agreement of 20 February 1928, and fully independent under a treaty with Britain of 22 March 1946.\n\nOn 29 November 1947, the United Nations Partition Plan for Palestine was passed, envisaging the creation of separate Jewish and Arab states operating under economic union with Jerusalem being transferred to UN trusteeship. Two weeks later, Colonial Secretary Arthur Creech Jones announced that the British Mandate would terminate on 15 May 1948. On the last day of the Mandate, the creation of the State of Israel was proclaimed, and the 1948 Arab–Israeli War began.\n\nImmediately following their declaration of war on the Ottoman Empire in November 1914, the British War Cabinet began to consider the future of Palestine, at the time an Ottoman region with a minority Jewish population (around 3–5% of the total). By late 1917, in the lead up to the Balfour Declaration, the wider war had reached a stalemate, with two of Britain's allies not fully engaged: the United States had yet to suffer a casualty, and the Russians were in the midst of a revolution. A stalemate in southern Palestine was broken by the Battle of Beersheba on 31 October 1917. The release of the Balfour Declaration was authorised by 31 October; the preceding Cabinet discussion had referenced perceived propaganda benefits amongst the worldwide Jewish community for the Allied war effort. \n\nOn 2 November 1917, during World War I, the British government issued the Balfour Declaration, a public statement announcing support for the establishment of a \"national home for the Jewish people\" in Palestine. The opening words of the declaration represented the first public expression of support for Zionism by a major political power. The term \"national home\" had no precedent in international law, and was intentionally vague as to whether a Jewish state was contemplated. The intended boundaries of Palestine were not specified, and the British government later confirmed that the words \"in Palestine\" meant that the Jewish national home was not intended to cover all of Palestine. The second half of the declaration was added to satisfy opponents of the policy, who had claimed that it would otherwise prejudice the position of the local population of Palestine and encourage antisemitism worldwide by \"stamping the Jews as strangers in their native lands\". The declaration called for safeguarding the civil and religious rights for the Palestinian Arabs, who composed the vast majority of the local population, and also the rights of the Jewish communities in other countries outside of Palestine. \n\nControversy remains over a number of areas, such as whether the declaration contradicted earlier promises the British made to the Sharif of Mecca in the McMahon–Hussein correspondence, as well as the Sykes-Picot Agreement. \n\nThe mandate system was established under Article 22 of the Covenant of the League of Nations, entered into on 28 June 1919 as the first twenty-six articles of the Treaty of Versailles. The mandates were to act as legal instruments containing the internationally agreed-upon terms for administering certain post-World War I territories on behalf of the League of Nations. These were of the nature of both a treaty and a constitution, which contained minority rights clauses that provided for the rights of petition and adjudication by the International Court. Article 22 was written two months before the signing of the peace treaty, before it was known what communities, peoples, or territories were related to sub-paragraphs 4, 5, and 6. The treaty was signed, and the peace conference had been adjourned, before a formal decision was made.\n\nTwo governing principles formed the core of the Mandate System, being non-annexation of the territory and its administration as a \"sacred trust of civilisation\" to develop the territory for the benefit of its native people. The mandates were fundamentally different from the protectorates in that the Mandatory power undertook obligations to the inhabitants of the territory and to the League of Nations. The process of establishing the mandates consisted of two phases: the formal removal of sovereignty of the state previously controlling the territory, followed by the transfer of mandatory powers to individual states among the Allied Powers. Three steps were required to establish a mandate: (1) The Principal Allied and Associated Powers confer a mandate on one of their number or on a third power; (2) the principal powers officially notify the council of the League of Nations that a certain power has been appointed mandatory for such a certain defined territory; and (3) the council of the League of Nations takes official cognisance of the appointment of the mandatory power and informs the latter that it [the council] considers it as invested with the mandate, and at the same time notifies it of the terms of the mandate, after ascertaining whether they are in conformance with the provisions of the covenant.\" According to the Council of the League of Nations, meeting of August 1920: \"draft mandates adopted by the Allied and Associated Powers would not be definitive until they had been considered and approved by the League ... the legal title held by the mandatory Power must be a double one: one conferred by the Principal Powers and the other conferred by the League of Nations.\"\n\nAt the Peace Conference in 1919, Emir Faisal, speaking on behalf of King Hussein, asked for Arab independence, or at minimum the right to pick the mandatory. In the end, he recommended an Arab state under a British mandate. The World Zionist Organization also asked for a British mandate, and asserted the 'historic title of the Jewish people to Palestine'.\n\nA confidential appendix to the report of the 1919 King-Crane Commission observed that \"The Jews are distinctly for Britain as mandatory power, because of the Balfour declaration' and that the French 'resent the payment by the English to the Emir Faisal of a large monthly subsidy, which they claim covers a multitude of bribes, and enables the British to stand off and show clean hands while Arab agents do dirty work in their interest.\" The Faisal-Weizmann Agreement called for British mediation of any disputes. It also called for the establishment of borders, after the Versailles peace conference, by a commission to be formed for the purpose. The World Zionist Organization later submitted to the peace conference a proposed that did not include the area east of the Hedjaz Railway, including most of Transjordan.\n\nIn a meeting at Deauville in 1919, David Lloyd George of the UK and Georges Clemenceau of France finalised the Anglo-French Settlement of 1–4 December 1918. The new agreement allocated Palestine and the Vilayet of Mosul to the British in exchange for British support of French influence in Syria and Lebanon.\n\nAt the Paris Peace Conference, Prime Minister Lloyd George told Georges Clemenceau and the other allies that the McMahon-Hussein correspondence was a treaty obligation. He explained that the agreement with Hussein had actually been the basis for the Sykes-Picot Agreement, and that the French could not use the proposed League Of Nations Mandate system to break the terms of the agreement. He pointed out that the French had agreed not to occupy the area of the independent Arab state, or confederation of states, with their military forces, including the areas of Damascus, Homs, Hama, and Aleppo. British Foreign Secretary Arthur Balfour (later Lord Balfour) and U.S. President Woodrow Wilson were present at the meeting.\n\nThe preamble of the Mandate document states that the Mandate is granted to Britain \"for the purpose of giving effect to the provisions of Article 22 of the Covenant of the League of Nations\". That article, which concerns entrusting \"tutelage\" of colonies formerly under German and Turkish sovereignty to \"advanced nations\" with specific regard to \"[c]ommunities formerly belonging to the Turkish Empire\" that they \"have reached a stage of development where their existence as independent nations can be provisionally recognised subject to the rendering of administrative advice and assistance by a Mandatory until such time as they are able to stand alone.\" Throughout the period of the Mandate, Palestinian Arab leaders cited this as proving their assertion that the British were obliged under the terms of the Mandate to facilitate the eventual creation of an independent Arab state in Palestine.\nThe open negotiations began at the Paris Peace Conference, continued at the Conference of London and took definite shape only after the San Remo conference in April 1920. There the Allied Supreme Council granted the mandates for Palestine and Mesopotamia to Britain, and those for Syria and Lebanon to France. In August 1920, this was officially acknowledged in the Treaty of Sèvres. Both Zionist and Arab representatives attended the conference, where they signed the Faisal–Weizmann Agreement. The agreement was never implemented.\nThe San Remo conference assigned the mandate for Palestine to the United Kingdom under Article 22 of the Covenant of the League of Nations. The Allies also decided to make the UK responsible for putting into effect its own Balfour Declaration of 1917. France required the continuation of its religious protectorate in Palestine but Italy and Great Britain opposed it. France lost the religious protectorate but thanks to the Holy See continued to enjoy liturgical honors in Mandatory Palestine until 1924 when the honours were abolished (see: Protectorate of the Holy See).\n\nThe boundaries of the mandated territories at San Remo were not precisely defined. Chaim Weizmann subsequently reported to his WZO colleagues in London in May 1920:\"There are still important details outstanding, such as the actual terms of the mandate and the question of the boundaries in Palestine. There is the delimitation of the boundary between French Syria and Palestine, which will constitute the northern frontier and the eastern line of demarcation, adjoining Arab Syria. The latter is not likely to be fixed until the Emir Faisal attends the Peace Conference, probably in Paris.\"\n\nIntended mandatory powers were required to submit written statements during the Paris Peace Conference to the League of Nations proposing the rules of administration in the mandated areas. Drafting discussions began in July 1919, before the mandate was formally awarded in April 1920, because it had become clear that Britain was the favored power.\n\nThe February 1919 Zionist Proposal to the Peace Conference was not discussed at the time, as the Allies' discussions were focused elsewhere; it was not until July 1919 that direct negotiations begun between the British Foreign Office and the Zionists, following the production of a draft mandate by the British. The British draft comprised 29 articles, compared to the 5 articles in the Zionist proposal. The mandate went through multiple drafts, including a December 1919 draft produced after discussions between Forbes-Adam and Cohen, a June 1920 draft after Curzon's \"watering down\", and the December 1920 draft which was submitted to the League of Nations for comment. The drafting was carried out with no input from any Arabs, despite the fact that their disagreement with the Balfour Declaration policy was well known.\n\nA draft was presented by the Zionist Organization to the British on 15 July 1919. In response, Balfour authorized 30-year-old diplomatic secretary Eric Forbes Adam to begin negotiations with the Zionist Organization. Curzon was to succeed Balfour as Foreign Secretary in October 1919. On the Zionist side, the drafting was led by 24-year-old Benjamin V Cohen on behalf of Weizmann, Felix Frankfurter and other Zionist leaders.\n\nA second draft was presented on 10 June 1920. In the second draft, the paragraph recognising the historical connection of the Jewish people with Palestine was removed from the preamble. \"self-governing commonwealth\" was replaced by \"self-governing institutions\". Also, \"The recognition of the establishment of the Jewish National Home as the guiding principle in the execution of the Mandate\" was omitted from the first draft. After strenuous objection to the proposed changes, the statement regarding the historical connections of the Jews with Palestine was re-incorporated into the Mandate in December 1920. The draft was submitted to the League of Nations on 6 December 1920.\n\nIn the summer of 1921, a Palestinian delegation arrived in London to negotiate on behalf of the Muslim and Christian population.\nThe document was based on the principles contained in Article 22 of the draft Covenant of the League of Nations and the San Remo Resolution of 25 April 1920 by the principal Allied and associated powers after the First World War. The mandate formalised British rule in the southern part of Ottoman Syria from 1923–1948.\n\nEach of the principal Allied powers had a hand in drafting the proposed mandate—although some, including the United States, had not declared war on the Ottoman Empire and did not become members of the League of Nations.\n\nThe United States was not a member of the League of Nations. On 23 February 1921, two months after the draft mandates had been submitted to the League, the United States formally requested that it be allowed to comment prior to consideration by the Council of the League of Nations; the Council agreed to this requirement a week later. These discussions did not conclude until 14 May 1922, when the United States government announced the terms of an agreement with the United Kingdom regarding the Palestine mandate. The terms included a stipulation that \"consent of the United States shall be obtained before any alteration is made in the text of the mandate\".\n\nOn 3 December 1924, it entered into in the Palestine Mandate Convention, in which the United States \"consents to the administration\" (Article 1) and which dealt with eight issues of concern to the United States such as property rights and business interests.\nOn May 17, 1922, in a discussion regarding the date on which the question of the Draft Mandate for Palestine should be placed on the Agenda of the Council of the League of Nations, Lord Balfour informed the Council of his government's understanding of the role of the League in the creation of mandates. According to the summary in the minutes, he said that:\n[the] Mandates were not the creation of the League, and they could not in substance be altered by the League. The League's duties were confined to seeing that the specific and detailed terms of the mandates were in accordance with the decisions taken by the Allied and Associated Powers, and that in carrying out these mandates the Mandatory Powers should be under the supervision—not under the control—of the League. A mandate was a self-imposed limitation by the conquerors on the sovereignty which they exercised over the conquered territory.\n\nThe mandate was approved on 22 July 1922 in a private meeting of the Council of the League of Nations at St. James Palace in London, giving the British formal international recognition of the position they had held \"de facto\" in the region since the end of 1917 in Palestine and since 1920-21 in Transjordan. The Council stated that the mandate was approved and would come into effect \"automatically\" when the dispute between France and Italy was resolved. A formal public statement confirming this was announced by the president of the council on 24 July. With the Fascists coming into power in Italy, Mussolini delayed the coming into force of the mandates. On 23 August 1923 the Turkish assembly in Ankara ratified the Treaty of Lausanne by 215 votes out of 235.\nThe Council of the League of Nations determined that the two mandates had come into effect at its meeting of 29 September 1923. The dispute between France and Italy was resolved by the Turkish ratification.\n\nTurkey was not a member of the League of Nations at the time of the negotiations; having been on the losing side of World War I, they were not to join until 1932. The decisions regarding mandates over Ottoman territory taken by the Allied Supreme Council at the San Remo conference was documented in the Treaty of Sèvres, signed on behalf of the Ottoman Empire and Allies on 10 August 1920. However, the treaty was never ratified by the Ottoman government, because it required the agreement of Mustafa Kemal Atatürk. Atatürk expressed disdain for the treaty, and continued the fight known as the Turkish War of Independence. In November 1922, the Conference of Lausanne began, with the intention to negotiate a treaty to replace the failed Treaty of Sèvres. In the Treaty of Lausanne, signed on 24 July 1923, the Turkish government formally recognised the detachment of the regions south of the frontier agreed in the Treaty of Ankara (1921), thereby making a general renunciation of its sovereignty over Palestine.\n\nThe preamble of the mandate document declared:\nWhereas the Principal Allied Powers have also agreed that the Mandatory should be responsible for putting into effect the declaration originally made on November 2nd, 1917, by the Government of His Britannic Majesty, and adopted by the said Powers, in favour of the establishment in Palestine of a national home for the Jewish people, it being clearly understood that nothing should be done which might prejudice the civil and religious rights of existing non-Jewish communities in Palestine, or the rights and political status enjoyed by Jews in any other country. \n\nWeizmann noted in his memoirs that he considered the most important part of the mandate, and the most difficult negotiation, was the clause in the preamble which recognized \"the historical connection of the Jews with Palestine\".The British Foreign Secretary, Lord Curzon, together with the Italian and French governments rejected early drafts of the mandate because they had contained a passage which read: \"Recognising, moreover, the historical connection of the Jewish people with Palestine and \"the claim which this gives them to reconstitute it their national home\"...\" The Palestine Committee set up by the Foreign Office recommended that the reference to 'the claim' be omitted. The Allies had already noted the historical connection in the Treaty of Sèvres, but they had not acknowledged a legal claim. Lord Balfour suggested an alternative which was accepted:\n\nWhereas recognition has thereby [i.e. by the Treaty of Sèvres] been given to the historical connection of the Jewish people with Palestine, and to the grounds for reconstituting their National Home in that country ... Article 4 of the Mandate provided for \"the recognition of an appropriate Jewish agency as a public body for the purpose of advising and co-operating with the Administration of Palestine in such economic, social and other matters as may affect the establishment of the Jewish National Home and the interests of the Jewish population of Palestine,\" effectively establishing the Jewish Agency.\n\nArticle 7 provided: \"The Administration of Palestine shall be responsible for enacting a nationality law. There shall be included in this law provisions framed so as to facilitate the acquisition of Palestinian citizenship by Jews who take up their permanent residence in Palestine.\"\n\nThe Vatican and the Italian and French governments concentrated their efforts on the issue of the Holy Places and rights of the Christian communities; the Zionists showed limited interest in this area. continued to press their own legal claims on the basis of the former Protectorate of the Holy See and the French Protectorate of Jerusalem. The Catholic powers saw an opportunity to reverse the gains made by the Greek and Russian Orthodox communities in the region over the previous 150 years, as documented in the Status quo of Holy Land sites.\n\nBritain was to assume responsibility for the Holy Places under Article 13 of the mandate. The idea of an International Commission to resolve claims on the Holy Places had been formalised in Article 95 of the Treaty of Sèvres, and taken up again in article 14 of the Palestinian Mandate. Negotiations concerning the formation and the role of the commission were partly responsible for the delay in ratifying the mandate. Article 14 of the Mandate required Britain to establish a commission to study, define, and determine the rights and claims relating to the different religious communities in Palestine. This provision, which called for the creation of a commission to review the religious \"status quo\" between the religious communities, was never implemented.\n\nArticle 15 required the mandatory administration to see to it that complete freedom of conscience and the free exercise of all forms of worship were permitted. Article 15 stated that \"No discrimination of any kind shall be made between the inhabitants of Palestine on the ground of race, religion or language. No person shall be excluded from Palestine on the sole ground of his religious belief.\"\n\nThe High Commissioner established the authority of the Orthodox Rabbinate over the members of the Jewish community and retained a modified version of the old Ottoman Millet system. Formal recognition was extended to eleven religious communities, which did not include the non-Orthodox Jewish or Protestant Christian denominations.\n\nThe proviso to the objective of the mandate was that \"nothing should be done which might prejudice the civil and religious rights of existing non-Jewish communities in Palestine\".\n\nUnder the terms of the McMahon-Hussein correspondence and Sykes-Picot agreements, Transjordan was to be part of an Arab state or confederation of Arab states. In 1918, the British military retreated from Trans-Jordan, in an indication of their political ideas about the future of the territory, which according to their position was designated to be part of the Arab Syrian state.\n\nThe boundaries of the Palestine Mandate were not defined when it was awarded in April 1920 at the San Remo conference. In a telegram to the Foreign Office summarising the conclusions of the San Remo conference, the Foreign Secretary, Lord Curzon, stated: \"The boundaries will not be defined in Peace Treaty but are to be determined at a later date by principal Allied Powers\".\n\nDuring 1920, two principles emerged within the British government: the first was that the Palestine government would not extend east of the Jordan, and the second was the government's chosen – albeit disputed – interpretation of the 1915 McMahon-Hussein Correspondence which proposed that Transjordan had been included in the area of \"Arab independence\" whilst Palestine had been excluded.\n\nAt the Battle of Maysalun on 23 July 1920, the French removed the newly proclaimed nationalist government of Hashim al-Atassi and expelled King Faisal from Syria. The French formed a new Damascus state after the Battle of Maysalun, they refrained from extending their rule into the southern part of Faisal's domain, and the area of Transjordan became for a time a no-man's land. As a result, Curzon instructed Vansittart in August 1920 to leave the eastern boundary of Palestine undefined, stating: \n\"His Majesty's Government are already treating 'Trans-Jordania' as separate from the Damascus State, while at the same time avoiding any definite connection between it and Palestine, thus leaving the way open for the establishment there, should it become advisable, of some form of independent Arab government, perhaps by arrangement with King Hussein or other Arab chiefs concerned.\" Following the French occupation, the British suddenly wanted to know 'what is the \"Syria\" for which the French received a mandate at San Remo?' and \"does it include Transjordania?\". British Foreign Minister Curzon ultimately decided that it did not and that Transjordan would remain independent, but in the closest relation with Palestine.\n\nIn August 1920, newly-appointed High Commissioner Herbert Samuel asked to put parts of Transjordan directly under his administrative control but was declined due to London's unwillingness to commit any significant resources to this area. British Foreign Secretary Earl Curzon wrote to Samuel in August 1920 stating, \"I suggest that you should let it be known forthwith that in the area south of the Sykes-Picot line, we will not admit French authority and that our policy for this area to be independent but in closest relations with Palestine.\" Samuel replied to Curzon, \"After the fall of Damascus a fortnight ago...Sheiks and tribes east of Jordan utterly dissatisfied with Shareefian Government most unlikely would accept revival.\" He subsequently announced that Transjordan was under British Mandate. Without authority from London, Samuel then visited Transjordan and at a meeting with 600 leaders in Salt, announced the independence of the area from Damascus and its absorption into the mandate, quadrupling the area under his control by tacit capitulation. Samuel assured his audience that Transjordan would not be merged with Palestine. The foreign secretary, Lord Curzon, repudiated Samuel's action. Curzon wrote in February 1921: \"I am very concerned about Transjordania... Sir H.Samuel wants it as an annex of Palestine and an outlet for the Jews. Here I am against him.\"\n\nOn 21 November 1920, Abdullah, the brother of recently deposed King Faisal, marched into Ma'an at the head of an army of 300 men.\n\nThe Cairo Conference was convened on 12\nMarch 1921 by Colonial Secretary Winston Churchill, then Britain's Colonial Secretary, and lasted until 30 March; the conference was to endorse an arrangement whereby Transjordan would be added to the Palestine mandate, with Abdullah as the emir under the authority of the High Commissioner, and with the condition that the Jewish National Home provisions of the Palestine mandate would not apply there. On the first day of the conference, the Middle East Department of the Colonial Office set out the situation as follows:\nDistinction to be drawn between Palestine and Trans-Jordan under the Mandate. His Majesty's Government are responsible under the terms of the Mandate for establishing in Palestine a national home for the Jewish people. They are also pledged by the assurances given to the Sherif of Mecca in 1915 to recognise and support the independence of the Arabs in those portions of the (Turkish) vilayet of Damascus in which they are free to act without detriment to French interests. The western boundary of the Turkish vilayet of Damascus before the war was the River Jordan. Palestine and Trans-Jordan do not, therefore, stand upon quite the same footing. At the same time, the two areas are economically interdependent, and their development must be considered as a single problem. Further, His Majesty's Government have been entrusted with the Mandate for \"Palestine.\" If they wish to assert their claim to Trans-Jordan and to avoid raising with other Powers the legal status of that area, they can only do so by proceeding upon the assumption that Trans-Jordan forms part of the area covered by the Palestine Mandate. In default of this assumption Trans-Jordan would be left, under article 132 of the Treaty of Sèvres, to the disposal of the principal Allied Powers. Some means must be found of giving effect in Trans-Jordan to the terms of the Mandate consistently with \"recognition and support of the independence of the Arabs\".\n\nOn 21 March 1921, the Foreign and Colonial office legal advisers decided to introduce Article 25 into the Palestine Mandate. It was approved by Curzon on 31 March 1921, and the revised final draft of the mandate (including Transjordan) was forwarded to the League of Nations on 22 July 1922. Article 25 permitted the mandatory to \"postpone or withhold application of such provisions of the mandate as he may consider inapplicable to the existing local conditions\" in that region. The final text of the Mandate includes an Article 25 which states:\n\"In the territories lying between the Jordan [river] and the eastern boundary of Palestine as ultimately determined, the Mandatory shall be entitled, with the consent of the Council of the League of Nations, to postpone or withhold application of such provisions of this mandate as he may consider inapplicable to the existing local conditions, and to make such provision for the administration of the territories as he may consider suitable to those conditions\"\n\nThe new article was intended to enable Britain \"to set up an Arab administration and to withhold indefinitely the application of those clauses of the mandate which relate to the establishment of the National Home for the Jews\", as explained in a Colonial Office letter three days later. This created two administrative areas, Palestine, under direct British rule, and autonomous Transjordan, under the rule of the Hashemite family from the Kingdom of Hejaz in present-day Saudi Arabia, in accordance with the McMahon–Hussein Correspondence of 1915. At discussions between in Jerusalem on 28 March, Churchill proposed his plan to Abdullah that Transjordan would be accepted into the mandatory area as an Arab country apart from Palestine and that it would be, initially for six months, under the nominal rule of the Emir Abdullah. Churchill stated that Transjordan would not form part of the Jewish national home to be established west of the River Jordan:\nTrans-Jordania would not be included in the present administrative system of Palestine, and therefore the Zionist clauses of the mandate would not apply. Hebrew would not be made an official language in Trans-Jordania and the local Government would not be expected to adopt any measures to promote Jewish immigration and colonisation.\n\nAbdullah's six-month trial was subsequently extended, and by the following summer Abdullah had begun to voice his impatience at the lack of formal confirmation. Shortly after the approval of the mandate in July 1922, the Colonial Office prepared a memorandum to give effect to Article 25. On 16 September 1922, the League of Nations approved a British memorandum detailing its intended implementation of that clause, namely to exclude Transjordan from the articles related to Jewish settlement. On submission of the memorandum to the Council of the League of Nations, Balfour explained the background as recorded in the minutes: \"Lord Balfour reminded his colleagues that Article 25 of the mandate for Palestine as approved by the Council in London on July 24th, 1922, provides that the territories in Palestine which lie east of the Jordan should be under a somewhat different regime from the rest of Palestine. ... The British Government now merely proposed to carry out this article. It had always been part of the policy contemplated by the League and accepted by the British Government, and the latter now desired to carry it into effect. In pursuance of the policy, embodied in Article 25, Lord Balfour invited the Council to pass a series of resolutions which modified the mandate as regards those territories. The object of these resolutions was to withdraw from Trans-Jordania the special provisions which were intended to provide a national home for the Jews west of the Jordan.\"\n\nThis public clarification and implementation of Article 25, more than a year after it had been added to the mandate, was, in the words of Professor of Modern Jewish History Bernard Wasserstein, to result in \"the myth of Palestine's 'first partition' [which became] part of the concept of 'Greater Israel' and of the ideology of Jabotinsky's Revisionist movement\".\n\nThe legality of the mandate has been disputed in detail by scholars, in particular with respect to its consistency with Article 22 of the Covenant of the League of Nations.\n\nPrior to the war, the territory which became Mandatory Palestine formerly constituted the Ottoman Empire divisionss of the Mutasarrifate of Jerusalem and the southern part of the Beirut Vilayet, whilst what became Transjordan was made up of the southern part of the Vilayet of Syria and the northern part of the Hejaz Vilayet. During the war the British military divided the Hijaz theatre of war and the EEF theatre of war along a line from a point south of Akaba to a point south of Ma'an. The EEF theatre was divided between its main theatre in Palestine, led directly by the EEF, and the Syrian theatre, including Transjordan, led by the Arab Revolt army of Faisal. The post-war military administrations, OETA South and OETA East, the latter with an Arab governor, split the territory in the same way; Professor Yitzhak Gil-Har notes that \"the military administration always treated Trans-Jordan as a separate administration outside its jurisdiction\". Professor Uri Ra'anan, commenting in 1955, stated that the OETA system of borders \"politically, if not legally, was bound to influence the post-war settlement\".\n\nAt a private meeting during the Peace Conference on 13 September 1919, a memorandum was handed by Lloyd George to Georges Clemenceau which stated that British Palestine would be \"defined in accordance with its ancient boundaries of Dan to Beersheba\".\n\nNeither Palestinian nor any other Arabs were involved in the discussions which led to the boundaries of Mandatory Palestine.\n\nThe determination of Palestine's northern border was a far longer and more complex process than for Palestine's other borders. The two primary differences were that this border separated Britain and France and that it ran through heavily populated areas which had not previously been separated – the other borders separated British Palestine from British Egypt and British Transjordan, and ran primarily through sparsely inhabited areas.\n\nThe Northern boundary between the British and French mandates was defined in broad terms by the Franco-British Boundary Agreement of December 1920. That agreement placed the bulk of the Golan Heights in the French sphere. The treaty also established a joint commission to settle the precise border and mark it on the ground. The commission submitted its final report on 3 February 1922, and it was approved with some caveats by the British and French governments on 7 March 1923, several months before Britain and France assumed their Mandatory responsibilities on 29 September 1923. Under the treaty, Syrian and Lebanese residents would have the same fishing and navigation rights on Lake Hula, Lake Tiberias, and the Jordan River as citizens of the Palestine Mandate, but the government of Palestine would be responsible for policing of the lakes. The Zionist movement pressured the French and British to include as much water sources as possible to Palestine during the demarcating negotiations. These constant demands influenced the negotiators and finally led to the inclusion of the whole Sea of Galilee, both sides of the Jordan river, Lake Hula, Dan spring, and part of the Yarmouk. The High Commissioner of Palestine, Herbert Samuel, had demanded full control of the Sea of Galilee. The new border followed a 10-meter wide strip along the northeastern shore.\n\nFollowing the settlement of the Northern border issue, the British and French governments signed on 2 February 1926 an Agreement of good neighbourly Relations between the mandated territories of Palestine, Syria and Lebanon.\n\nThe Jordan river was chosen as the border between the two territories; this was documented in the 1922 Transjordan memorandum.\n\nThe future Transjordan had been part of the Syrian administrative unit under the Ottomans. It was part of the captured territory placed under the Allied Occupied Enemy Territory Administration (OETA).\n\nIn August 1919, Balfour stated that he wanted Palestine to be defined to include some of the lands lying east of the Jordan, but not the Hedjaz Railway. At the 1919 Paris Peace Conference, the British officials presented a proposal including maps showing the eastern boundary of Palestine located just 10 km east of the Jordan. At the Peace Conference, the Zionist Organization's claims did also not include any territory east of the Hedjaz Railway. The railway ran parallel with and about 35–40 miles (about 60 km) east of the Jordan river. The Faisal-Weizmann Agreement, never implemented, included a provision that the boundaries between the Arab state and Palestine should be determined by a commission after the Paris Peace Conference.\n\nThe territory east of the Jordan between Damascus and Ma'an had been ruled as part of Faisal's Kingdom of Syria since the end of the war. The British were content with that arrangement because Faisal was a British ally and the region fell within the indirect sphere of British influence according to the Sykes-Picot agreement. They favoured Arab rule in the interior, because they didn't have enough troops to garrison the territory. Damascus was located in the French indirect sphere of influence, and the Sykes-Picot agreement called for Arab rule there too.\n\nThe first border on which agreement was reached was with British-ruled Egypt. On 9 May 1919, a memorandum of the British political delegation to the Paris peace conference stated that the British intended to adopt the border line established between Egypt and the Ottoman Empire in 1906. The decision represented a compromise between the proposals by the Zionists and the British authorities in Egypt, and was already well defined on maps.\n\nThe Negev was added to Palestine on 10 July 1922, having been conceded by British representative John Philby \"in Trans-Jordan's name\". Abdullah made a request for the Negev to be added to Transjordan in late 1922, and again in 1925, but this was rejected.\n\nThe Southern border between Transjordan and Arabia was left undefined whilst Abdullah's father remained in power in the Kingdom of Hejaz. However, following the 1924-25 Saudi conquest of Hejaz, the Hashemite army fled to the northern Ma'an province of Hejaz, which was then annexed by Transjordan. This was formalised by the Hadda Agreement, with the resulting zig-zag border becoming known as Winston's Hiccup.\n\nThe location of the Eastern border between Transjordan and Iraq was first set out on 2 December 1922, in a treaty to which Transjordan was not party to – the Uqair Protocol between Iraq and Nejd. It described the western end of the Iraq-Nejd boundary as \"the Jebel Anazan situated in the neighbourhood of the intersection of latitude 32 degrees north longitude 39 degrees east where the Iraq-Najd boundary terminated\", thereby implicitly confirming this as the point at which the Iraq-Nejd boundary became the Transjordan-Nejd boundary. This followed a proposal from Lawrence in January 1922 that Transjordan be extended to include Wadi Sirhan as far south as al-Jauf, in order to protect Britain's route to India and contain Ibn Saud.\n\nTransjordan became largely autonomous under British tutelage according to an agreement of 20 February 1928, and fully independent under a treaty with Britain of 22 March 1946.\n\nOn 29 November 1947, the United Nations Partition Plan for Palestine was passed, envisaging the creation of separate Jewish and Arab states operating under economic union with Jerusalem being transferred to UN trusteeship. Two weeks later, Colonial Secretary Arthur Creech Jones announced that the British Mandate would terminate on 15 May 1948. On the last day of the Mandate, the creation of the State of Israel was proclaimed, and the 1948 Arab–Israeli War began.\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "35639283", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35639283", "title": "Carl Patsch", "text": "Carl Patsch\n\nCarl Ludwig Patsch, also Karl Ludwig Patsch, (14 September 1865 in Kowatsch () bei Jitschin 21 February 1945 in Vienna) was an Austrian Slavist, Albanologist, archaeologist and historian.\n\nCarl Patsch was born in north-east Bohemia, as a son of Ludwig Patsch, a steward of an upper prince, but grew up in Maratschowka (, ) and Sławuta (), Volhynia. He spoke Czech, Polish and Russian as mother languages.\n"}
{"id": "1342808", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1342808", "title": "Carroll Quigley", "text": "Carroll Quigley\n\nCarroll Quigley (; November 9, 1910 – January 3, 1977) was an American historian and theorist of the evolution of civilizations. He is noted for his teaching work as a professor at Georgetown University, for his academic publications, and for his research on the Round Table movement.\n\nBorn in Boston, Quigley attended Harvard University, where he studied history and earned B.A, M.A., and Ph.D. degrees. He taught at Princeton University, and then at Harvard, and then from 1941 to 1976 at the School of Foreign Service at Georgetown University.\n\nFrom 1941 until 1972, he taught a two-semester course at Georgetown on the development of civilizations. According to his obituary in \"The Washington Star\", many alumni of Georgetown's School of Foreign Service asserted that this was \"the most influential course in their undergraduate careers\".\n\nIn addition to his academic work, Quigley served as a consultant to the U.S. Department of Defense, the United States Navy, the Smithsonian Institution, and the House Select Committee on Astronautics and Space Exploration in the 1950s. He was also a book reviewer for \"The Washington Star\", and a contributor and editorial board member of \"Current History\".\n\nQuigley retired from Georgetown in June 1976 and died the following year.\n\nQuigley's work emphasized inclusive diversity as a core value of Western Civilization,<ref name=\"Quigley1966-1227/34\"></ref> contrasting it with the dualism of Plato. He concluded the book \"Tragedy and Hope\" with the hope that the West could \"resume its development along its old patterns of Inclusive Diversity\". From his study of history, \"it is clear that the West believes in diversity rather than in uniformity, in pluralism rather than in monism or dualism, in inclusion rather than exclusion, in liberty rather than in authority, in truth rather than in power, in conversion rather than in annihilation, in the individual rather than in the organization, in reconciliation rather than in triumph, in heterogeneity rather than in homogeneity, in relativisms rather than in absolutes, and in approximations rather than in final answers.\"\n\nQuigley asserts that any intolerance or rigidity in the religious practices of the West are aberrations from its nature of inclusivity and diversity. Quigley points to the tolerance and flexibility in Aquinas's belief that theological truth is revealed over time through dialogue within the Christian community, which allows the community to adapt to a changing world.\n\nHaving studied the rise and fall of civilizations, \"Quigley found the explanation of disintegration in the gradual transformation of social 'instruments' into 'institutions,' that is, transformation of social arrangements functioning to meet real social needs into social institutions serving their own purposes regardless of real social needs\".\n\nFrom a historical study of weapons and political dynamics, Quigley concludes that the characteristics of weapons are the main predictor of democracy. Democracy tends to emerge only when the best weapons available are easy for individuals to buy and use. This explains why democracy occurs so rarely in human history.\n\nIn the 1800s (peaking in the 1880s), guns were the best weapon available. In America, almost everyone could afford to buy a gun, and could learn how to use it fairly easily. Governments couldn't do any better: it became the age of mass armies of citizen soldiers with guns. (Similarly, Periclean Greece was an age of the citizen soldier and of democracy).\n\nIn the 1900s, expensive, specialist weapons (such as tanks and bombers) became available, and citizen soldiers became dominated by specialist soldiers. Quigley notes that the slaughter of World War I (1914-1918) was due to the mismatch between the traditional armies (citizen soldiers) and the available weapons (machine guns used defensively).\n\nQuigley's writing style is dense, influenced by a former history professor of his:\n\n\"As we raced along, Goethe was covered in fifteen minutes, Schiller in ten, Fichte in five...he covered any topic simply by slicing it up into a small number of parts and giving a name to each part. The complex character and achievement of Goethe, for example, were divided into six portions, each was given a title, and, ever after, the whole of Goethe could be evoked merely by reciting six words...I should like to outdare even my former professor by dividing this greater complexity <nowiki>[Classical culture]</nowiki> into only five parts.\"\n\nQuigley's analytical style is scientific, stemming from his earlier training in physics.\nIn this book we are concerned with the social sciences...and particularly with the effort to apply a scientific method of observation, formulation of hypotheses, and testing to such phenomena. The enormous size of this field has made it advisable to curtail our attention to the process of social change, especially in civilizations.\nIn his freshman year in the School of Foreign Service at Georgetown, future U.S. President Bill Clinton took Quigley's course, receiving a 'B' as his final grade in both semesters (an excellent grade in a course where nearly half the students received D or lower).\n\nIn 1991, Clinton named Quigley as an important influence on his aspirations and political philosophy, when Clinton launched his presidential campaign in a speech at Georgetown. He mentioned Quigley again during his acceptance speech to the 1992 Democratic National Convention, as follows:\n\nAs a teenager, I heard John Kennedy's summons to citizenship. And then, as a student at Georgetown, I heard that call clarified by a professor named Carroll Quigley, who said to us that America was the greatest Nation in history because our people had always believed in two things–that tomorrow can be better than today and that every one of us has a personal moral responsibility to make it so.\n\nOne distinctive feature of Quigley's historical writings is his assertion that the Round Table movement have played a significant role in recent world history. His writing on this topic has made Quigley famous among many who investigate conspiracy theories.\n\nIn his book \"The Anglo-American Establishment: From Rhodes to Cliveden\" (written in 1949 and published posthumously in 1981), Quigley purports to trace the history of a secret society (Round Table group) founded in 1891 by Cecil Rhodes and Alfred Milner. Quigley notes that \"The organization was so modified and so expanded by Milner after the eclipse of Stead in 1899, and especially after the death of Rhodes in 1902, that it took on quite a different organization and character, although it continued to pursue the same goals.\"\n\nThe society consisted of an inner circle (\"The Society of the Elect\") and an outer circle (\"The Association of Helpers\", also known as The Milner Kindergarten and the Round Table Group). The society as a whole does not have a fixed name:\n\nQuigley assigns this group primary or exclusive credit for several historical events: the Jameson Raid, the Second Boer War, the founding of the Union of South Africa, the replacement of the British Empire with the Commonwealth of Nations, and a number of Britain's foreign policy decisions in the twentieth century.\n\nIn 1966, Quigley published a one-volume history of the twentieth century, titled \"Tragedy and Hope\". At several points in this book, the history of the Milner group is discussed. Moreover, Quigley states that he has recently been in direct contact with this organization, whose nature he contrasts to right-wing claims of a communist conspiracy:\n\nThis radical Right fairy tale, which is now an accepted folk myth in many groups in America, pictured the recent history of the United States, in regard to domestic reform and in foreign affairs, as a well-organized plot by extreme Left-wing elements ... This myth, like all fables, does in fact have a modicum of truth. There does exist, and has existed for a generation, an international Anglophile network which operates, to some extent, in the way the Radical right believes the Communists act. In fact, this network, which we may identify as the Round Table Groups, has no aversion to cooperating with the Communists, or any other group, and frequently does so. I know of the operation of this network because I have studied it for twenty years and was permitted for two years, in the early 1960s, to examine its papers and secret records. I have no aversion to it or to most of its aims and have, for much of my life, been close to it and to many of its instruments. I have objected, both in the past and recently, to a few of its policies... but in general my chief difference of opinion is that it wishes to remain unknown, and I believe its role in history is significant enough to be known.\n\nAccording to Quigley, the leaders of this group were Cecil Rhodes and Alfred Milner from 1891 until Rhodes' death in 1902, Milner alone until his own death in 1925, Lionel Curtis from 1925 to 1955, Robert H. (Baron) Brand from 1955 to 1963, and Adam D. Marris from 1963 until the time Quigley wrote his book. This organization also functioned through certain loosely affiliated \"front groups\", including the Royal Institute of International Affairs, the Institute of Pacific Relations, and the Council on Foreign Relations.\n\nIn addition, other secret societies are briefly discussed in \"Tragedy and Hope\", including a consortium of the leaders of the central banks of several countries, who formed the Bank for International Settlements.\n\nSoon after its publication, \"Tragedy and Hope\" caught the attention of authors interested in conspiracies. They proceeded to publicize Quigley's claims, disseminating them to a much larger audience than his original readership.\n\nThis began in 1970, when W. Cleon Skousen published \"The Naked Capitalist: A Review and Commentary on Dr. Carroll Quigley's Book \"Tragedy and Hope\"\". The first third of this book consists of extensive excerpts from \"Tragedy and Hope\", interspersed with commentary by Skousen. Skousen quotes Quigley's description of the activities of several groups — the Milner Group, a cartel of international bankers, the Communist Party, the Institute of Pacific Relations, and the Council on Foreign Relations. According to Skousen's interpretation of Quigley's book, each of these is a facet of one large conspiracy. The following year, G. Edward Griffin released the documentary \"The Capitalist Conspiracy: An Inside View of International Banking\", crediting the Skousen book: \"We wish to acknowledge that this film was insipred by Cleon Skousen's book, \"The Naked Capitalist\", which we believe is one of the most important documents of the decade.\"\n\nIn 1971, Gary Allen, a spokesman for the John Birch Society, published \"None Dare Call It Conspiracy\", which became a bestseller. Allen cited Quigley's \"Tragedy and Hope\" as an authoritative source on conspiracies throughout his book. Like Skousen, Allen understood the various conspiracies in Quigley's book to be branches of one large conspiracy, and also connected them to the Bilderbergers and to Richard Nixon. The John Birch Society continues to cite Quigley as a primary source for their view of history.\n\nQuigley is also cited by several other authors who assert the existence of powerful conspiracies. Jim Marrs, whose work was used as a source by Oliver Stone in his film \"JFK\", cites Quigley in his book \"Rule By Secrecy\", which describes a conspiracy linking the Milner Group, Skull and Bones, the Trilateral Commission, the Bavarian Illuminati, the Knights Templar, and aliens who posed as the Sumerian gods thousands of years ago. Pat Robertson's book \"The New World Order\" cites Quigley as an authority on a powerful conspiracy. Conservative activist Phyllis Schlafly has asserted that Bill Clinton's political success was due to his pursuit of the \"world government\" agenda he learned from Quigley.\nG. Edward Griffin relies heavily on Quigley for information about the role Milner's secret society plays in the Federal Reserve in his book \"The Creature from Jekyll Island: A Second Look at the Federal Reserve\".\n\nQuigley was dismissive of the authors who used his writings to support theories of a world domination conspiracy. Of W. Cleon Skousen's \"The Naked Capitalist\" he stated:\n\nSkousen's book is full of misrepresentations and factual errors. He claims that I have written of a conspiracy of the super-rich who are pro-Communist and wish to take over the world and that I'm a member of this group. But I never called it a conspiracy and don't regard it as such. I'm not an \"insider\" of these rich persons, although Skousen thinks so. I happen to know some of them and liked them, although I disagreed with some of the things they did before 1940.\n\nOn Gary Allen's \"None Dare Call It Conspiracy\" he said:\n\nThey thought Dr. Carroll Quigley proved everything. For example, they constantly misquote me to this effect: that Lord Milner (the dominant trustee of the Cecil Rhodes Trust and a heavy in the Round Table Group) helped finance the Bolsheviks. I have been through the greater part of Milner's private papers and have found no evidence to support that.\n\nFurther, \"None Dare Call It Conspiracy\" insists that international bankers were a single bloc, were all powerful and remain so today. I, on the contrary, stated in my book that they were much divided, often fought among themselves, had great influence but not control of political life and were sharply reduced in power about 1931-1940, when they became less influential than monopolized industry.\n\nIn \"Wall Street and the Rise of Hitler\", the Hoover institution scholar Antony C. Sutton stated:\n\nQuigley goes a long way to provide evidence for the \"existence\" of the power elite, but does not penetrate the \"operations\" of the elite. Possibly, the papers used by Quigley had been vetted, and did not include documentation on elitist manipulation of such events as the Bolshevik Revolution, Hitler's accession to power, and the election of Roosevelt in 1933. More likely, these political manipulations may not be recorded at all in the files of the power groups. They may have been unrecorded actions by a small ad hoc segment of the elite. It is noteworthy that the documents used by this author came from government sources, recording the day-to-day actions of Trotsky, Lenin, Roosevelt, Hitler, J.P. Morgan and the various firms and banks involved.\n\nF. William Engdahl, in an overview of financial imperialism entitled \"The Gods of Money\", criticized Quigley for stating that the power of international bankers declined in the 1930s, and insofar as the influence of international bankers in America was concerned, suggested that Quigley was confusing \"international finance\" with Morgan interests. He suggested, like Sutton, that Quigley's papers had been vetted. Engdahl argued that it was not the case that the power of \"international finance\" declined, but rather, Morgan interests fell and were replaced by Rockefeller interests.\n\nQuigley stated that the intentions and objectives of the group he profiled, associated with Wall Street and the City of London and Cecil Rhodes' super-imperialism, were \"largely commendable\". Members of the group, in statements recorded by the \"New York Times\" in 1902, proclaimed that they formed their society for the purpose of \"gradually absorbing the wealth of the world\".\n\nQuigley argued that the Round Table groups were not World Government advocates but super-imperialists. He stated that they emphatically did not want the League of Nations to become a World Government. Yet Lionel Curtis, who, according to Quigley, was one of the leaders of the Round Table movement, wished for it to be a World government with teeth, writing articles with H. G. Wells urging this.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "19626326", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19626326", "title": "Christian views on the classics", "text": "Christian views on the classics\n\nChristian views on the classics have varied widely throughout history.\n\nWhen Christianity at first appeared in Rome, introduced by Apostle Paul, the instruction of youth was largely confined to the basics of reading, writing and mathematics followed by the study of grammar, rhetoric, philosophy, and history. Much of the history was in verse; chief among which were the works of Horace and Virgil. Until the peace of the Church, early in the fourth century, the value and use of classical studies were unquestioned. Converts to Christianity brought with them such mental cultivation as they had received while pagans. They used their knowledge of mythology and ancient traditions as a means of attacking paganism. Tertullian forbade Christians to teach, but admitted that school attendance by Christian pupils was unavoidable. Arnobius, Lactantius, and Cassianus were classical Christian teachers.\n\nDuring the fourth century the value of secular literature began to be questioned by Biblical scholars. This opposition is condensed in the accepted translation, dating from Jerome from Psalm 70:15-16 \"Quoniam non cognovi litteraturam, introibo in potentias Domini; Domine memorabor justitiae tuae solius\". (Because I have not known learning I will enter into the powers of the LORD: O LORD I will be mindful of thy justice alone.Douay-Rheims 1899) The opposition between divine judgement and literature became gradually an accepted Christian idea.\n\nLater persecution under Julian led Christian writers to express more definitely their views on the subject. It produced little effect in the West. However, Marius Victorinus, one of the most distinguished professors in Rome, chose \"to give up the idle talk of the school rather than the Word of God.\" Thenceforth, Christians studied more closely and more appreciatively their own literature, i.e., the Biblical writings. Jerome discovers therein a Horace, a Catullus and an Alcaeus. In his \"De doctrina christiana\" Augustine shows how the Scriptures could be turned to account for the study of eloquence; he analyses periods of the prophet Amos, of Paul, and shows excellent examples of rhetorical figures in the Pauline Epistles. It would seem that the Church, therefore, ought to have given up the study of pagan literature. It did not do so. Augustine suggested his method only to those who wished to become priests, and even for these he did mean to make it obligatory. Men of less marked ability were to use the ordinary method of instruction. The \"De doctrina christiana\" was written in 427, at which time his advancing age and the increasing strictness of monastic life might have inclined Augustine to a rigorous solution. Jerome's scruples and the dream he relates in one of his letters are quite well known. In this dream he saw angels scourging him and saying: \"Thou art not a Christian, thou art a Ciceronian.\" He finds fault with ecclesiastics who find too keen a pleasure in the reading of Virgil; he adds, nevertheless, that youths are indeed compelled to study him. In his quarrel with Rufinus he declares that he has not read the profane authors since he left school, \"but I admit that I read them while there. Must I then drink the waters of Lethe that I may forget?\"\n\nIn defending himself the first figure that occurs to him is taken from mythology. What these eminent men desired was not so much the separation but the combination of the treasures of profane literature and of Christian truth. Jerome recalls the precept of Deuteronomy: \"If you desire to marry a captive, you must first shave her head and eyebrows, shave the hair on her body and cut her nails, so must it be done with profane literature, after having removed all that was earthly and idolatrous, unite with her and make her fruitful for the Lord.\" Augustine uses another Biblical allegory. For him, the Christian who seeks his knowledge in the pagan authors resembles the Israelites who despoil the Egyptians of their treasures in order to build the tabernacle of God. As to Ambrose, he has no doubts whatever. He quotes quite freely from Seneca, Virgil, and the \"Consolatio\" of Servius Sulpicius. He accepts the earlier view handed down from the Hebrew apologists to their Christian successors, viz., that whatever is good in the literature of antiquity comes from the Sacred Books. Pythagoras was a Jew or, at least, had read Moses. The pagan poets owe their flashes of wisdom to David and Job. Tatian, following earlier Jews had learnedly confirmed this view, and it recurs, more or less developed, in the other Christian apologists. In the West Minucius Felix gathered carefully into his \"Octavius\" whatever seemed to show harmony between the new doctrine and ancient learning. This was a convenient argument and served more than one purpose.\n\nBut this concession presupposed that pagan studies were subordinate to Christian truth, the \"Hebraica veritas\". In the second book of his \"De doctrina christiana\", Augustine explains how pagan classics lead to a more perfect apprehension of the Scriptures, and are indeed an introduction to them. In this sense Jerome, in a letter to Magnus, professor of eloquence at Rome, recommends the use of profane authors; profane literature is a captive. Indeed, men neither dared nor were able to do without classical teaching. Rhetoric continued to inspire a kind of timid reverence. The panegyrists, for example, do not trouble themselves about the emperor's religion, but addressed him as pagans would a pagan and draw their literary embellishments from mythology. Theodosius himself did not dare to exclude pagan authors from the school. A professor like Ausonius pursued the same methods as his pagan predecessors. Magnus Felix Ennodius, deacon of Milan under Theodoric and later Bishop of Pavia, inveighed against the impious person who carried a statue of Minerva to a disorderly house, and himself under pretext of an \"epithalamium\" wrote light and trivial verses. It is true that Christian society at the time of the barbarian invasions repudiated mythology and ancient culture, but it did not venture to completely banish them. In the meantime the public schools of antiquity were gradually closed. Private teaching took their place but even that formed its pupils, e.g. Sidonius Apollinaris, according to the traditional method. Christian asceticism, however, developed a strong feeling against secular studies. As early as the fourth century Martin of Tours finds that men have better things to do than study. There are lettered monks at Lérins, but their scholarship is a relic of their early education, not acquired after their monastic profession. The Rule of Benedict prescribes reading, it is true, but only sacred reading. Gregory the Great condemns the study of literature so far as bishops are concerned. Isidore of Seville condenses all ancient culture into a few data gathered into his \"Origines\", just enough to prevent all further study in the original sources. Cassiodorus alone shows a far wider range and makes possible a deeper and broader study of letters. His encyclopedic grasp of human knowledge links him with the best literary tradition of pagan antiquity. He planned a close union of secular and sacred science whence ought to issue a complete and truly Christian method of teaching. Unfortunately the invasions of the barbarians followed and the \"Institutiones\" of Cassiodorus remained a mere project.\n\nAbout the middle of the sixth century, the first indication of classical culture were seen in Britain, and, towards the close of the century, in Ireland. Irish scholars and then teachers, created a culture which the Anglo-Saxons developed. This culture placed literature and science at the service of theology and exegesis. They devoted themselves chiefly to grammar, rhetoric, and dialectics.\n\nIt is quite unlikely that manuscripts had been brought to Ireland between 350 and 450, to bring about a much later literary renaissance. The small ecclesiastical schools almost everywhere preserved elementary teaching, reading and writing. Irish scholarship went far beyond that.\n\nDuring the sixth and seventh centuries, manuscripts were still being copied in continental Europe. The writing of this period is uncial or semi-uncial. Even after eliminating fifth- century manuscripts there still remains a fair number of manuscripts in this style of writing. We find among these works practical information: glossaries, treatises on land-surveying, medicine, the veterinary art, juridical commentaries.\n\nOn the other hand, the numerous ecclesiastical manuscripts prove the persistence of certain scholarly traditions. The continuations of sacred studies sufficed to bring about the Carolingian Renaissance. It was likewise a purely ecclesiastical culture which the Irish brought back to the continent in the sixth and seventh centuries. The chief aim of these Irish monks was to preserve and develop religious life. When the scattered items of information are examined, especially the hagiological indications, their importance is peculiarly diminished, for the teaching in question generally concerns Scripture or theology. Even Columbanus does not seem to have organized literary studies in his monasteries. The Irish monks had a personal culture which they did not make any effort to diffuse, owing to the great distance between centers of learning. Moreover, the disciples of the Irish were men enamoured of ascetic mortification, who shunned an evil world and sought a life of prayer and penance. For such minds, beauty of language and verbal rhythm were frivolous attractions. The material equipment of the Irish religious establishments in Gaul scarcely admitted any other study than that of the Scriptures. Generally these establishments were but a group of huts surrounding a small chapel.\n\nThus, until Charlemagne and Alcuin, intellectual life was confined to Great Britain and Ireland. It was revived in Gaul in the eighth century, when the classic Latin literature was again studied. Pagan authors were read as secondary to Scripture and theology. Even towards the close of his life, Alcuin forbade his monks to read Virgil. Statius is the favourite poet, and, before long, Ovid, whose licentiousness is glossed over by allegorical interpretation. Mediocre abstracts and compilations, products of academic decadence, appear among the books frequently read, e.g. Homerus latinus (\"Ilias Latina\"), Dictys, Dares, the distichs ascribed to Cato. Cicero is almost overlooked, and two distinct personages are made of Tullius and Cicero. There were a number of classical authors studied until the thirteenth century.\n\nAt the close of the twelfth century, in the early years of the University of Paris, the principal known authors are: Statius, Virgil, Lucian, Juvenal, Horace, Ovid (with exception of the erotic poems and the satires), Sallust, Cicero, Martial, Petronius (judged as combining useful information and dangerous passages), Symmachus, Solinus, Sidonius, Suetonius, Quintus Curtius, Justin (known as Trogus Pompeius), Livy, the two Senecas (including the tragedies), Donatus Priscian, Boethius, Quintilian, Euclid, and Ptolemy. In the thirteenth century the influence of Aristotle restricted the field of reading.\n\nThere are, however, a few real Humanists among the medieval writers. Einhard (770-840), Rabanus Maurus (776-856), the ablest scholar of his time, and Walafrid Strabo (809-849) are men of extensive and disinterested learning. Servatus Lupus, Abbot of Ferrières (805-862), in his quest for Latin manuscripts labours as zealously as any scholar of the fifteenth century. At a later period Latin literature is represented by Remigius of Auxerre (d. 908), Gerbert (later Pope Sylvester II d. 1003), Liutprand of Cremona (d. about 972), John of Salisbury (1110–1180), Vincent of Beauvais (d. 1264), and Roger Bacon (d. 1294).\n\nMedieval Latin poetry drew its inspiration from Latin poetry. Among the imitations must be mentioned the works of Hroswitha (or Roswitha), Abbess of Gandersheim (close of the tenth century), whom Virgil, Prudentius, and Sedulius inspired to celebrate the acts of Otho the Great. She is of particular interest in the history of the survival of Latin literature, because of her comedies after the manner of Terence. It has been said that she wished to cause the pagan author to be totally forgotten. This statement is not reconcilable with her known simplicity of character. A certain facility in the dialogue and clearness of style do not offset the lack of ideas in her writings. They exhibit the fate of classical culture in the Middle Ages. Hroswitha imitates Terence, indeed but without understanding him, and in a ridiculous manner. The poems on actual life of Hugh of Orléans known as \"Primas\" or \"Archipoeta\" are far superior and betray genuine talent as well as an intelligent grasp of Horace.\nDuring the Middle Ages the Church preserved secular literature by harboring and copying its works in monasteries, where valuable libraries existed as early as the ninth century:\n\nThe reforms of Cluny and later of Clairvaux were not favourable to studies. The chief aim of the reformers was to combat the secular spirit and re-establish strict religious observances. This influence is in harmony with the tendencies of scholasticism. Consequently, from the twelfth century and especially the thirteenth, the copying of manuscripts became a secular business, a source of gain. The following is a list of the most ancient or most useful manuscripts of the Latin classics for the Middle Ages:\n\nThis list is incomplete. An author like Quintus Curtius is represented by numerous manuscripts in every century. Another, like Lucretius, was not copied anew between the ninth century and the Renaissance. Moreover, it was customary to compile manuscripts of epitomes and anthologies, some of which have preserved the only extant fragments of ancient authors. The teaching of grammar was deficient. This may account for the backwardness of philological science in the Middle Ages. Latin grammar is reduced to an abridgment of Donatius, supplemented by the meagre commentaries of the teacher, and replaced since the thirteenth century by the \"Doctrinale\" of Alexander de Villedieu (de Villa Dei).\n"}
{"id": "46668967", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46668967", "title": "City Museum (Quito)", "text": "City Museum (Quito)\n\nThe City Museum (Museo de la Ciudad) is a museum in the colonial center of Quito, Ecuador. It is located on Garcia Moreno Street, between Morales and Rocafuerte. \n\nThe museum was founded in 1998 and occupies the buildings of what was once the San Juan de Dios Hospital. The buildings were designated as a UNESCO Cultural World Heritage Site. and were restored in 1995 using the same materials as the original buildings to repair damaged areas. Ancient stone Doric columns, stone doorways and stone coverings in the patios are a highlight of the architecture. \n\nThe museum chronicles the history of Quito, along with 400 years of the history of the hospital. The former hospital buildings include an area of 10,200 square meters which house the four museum collections, 10 exhibition halls, workshop areas and museum offices, arranged around four courtyards. In addition to its permanent collections, the museum also offers the temporary exhibitions, focusing on particular aspects of life in Quito.\n\nOne of the permanent exhibitions offers a journey through the customs, people and traditions of Quito, through its displayed history from the sixteenth century to the nineteenth century. Another is the display of the history of the hospital and a collection of items from a former doctor at the hospital. There is another permanent exhibit which is called \"A new social order breaks through: Quito nineteenth century\".\n\nThe museum is open Tuesday to Sunday, from 09:30 until 17:30. Admission is free for people with disabilities, certain institutions and municipal employees. Admission for the general public requires minimal fees.\n\n"}
{"id": "7509108", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7509108", "title": "Coin wrapper", "text": "Coin wrapper\n\nA coin wrapper, sometimes known as a bank roll or roll, is a paper or plastic container for a number of coins.\n\nIn the United States, empty rolls are available free at most banks in every denomination (though it is becoming increasingly difficult for half dollar and dollar to be readily made available).\nThe rolls come flat and one side will have to be folded to allow for coins to be placed inside. When the roll is full, the top side will need to be folded. Typically, the full rolls are brought back to the banks in exchange for currency or to be deposited.\n\nIn the Eurozone, empty plastic rolls are used at banks in every denomination, with five-coin staggered rows. Their main advantages are:\n\nIn Japan, machine-wrapped, plastic coin rolls are circulated almost exclusively, as handmade coin rolls are rare. Each roll holds 50 coins. Customers can change bills into coin rolls easily using automatic money changers at Japanese banks.\n\nIn the United Kingdom, coin rolls are not used. Instead, small plastic bags are provided free of charge at banks which are filled by the customer with the appropriate number of the same value coin as printed on the bag. When depositing or changing, the bags are weighed at the bank to check they contain the right number.\n\nOften, coin collectors will ask for full rolls from the bank to search the contents in hopes of finding an interesting piece. Some collectors also save coins of bullion value, such as copper cents and silver half-dollars. This practice is called coin roll hunting. It is also known as cherry picking. Full rolls are also requested by vendors to make change.\n\nBank rolls are vulnerable to a variety of scams, such as rolling slugs of no value or coins of a lesser value. See also coin rolling scams.\n\nAustralian coins used to have different ink colors, but now they all have black ink.\nThe Bahamas has two different kinds of rolls with the same number of coins. One kind is distinguished by color, while the other is adorned with a light blue background with the Flag of the Bahamas. The rolls here are the ones distinguished by color.\nCanadian coin rolls are very similar to American coin rolls, with the exception being that rolls for the half dollar do not exist while rolls for the toonie do.\n\nThree of the rolls used in Spain are different from the ones used in the rest of the eurozone.\nUntil 2009, two of the rolls used in Italy were different from the ones used in the rest of the eurozone.\n\nJapanese coin rolls are made of plastic and are not color-differentiated. Each roll holds 50 coins.\n\nEach denomination has a different amount found in a roll and are color-coded by denomination. See below:\n"}
{"id": "12111356", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12111356", "title": "County of Pallars", "text": "County of Pallars\n\nThe County of Pallars or Pallás (, ; ) was a \"de facto\" independent petty state, nominally within the Carolingian Empire and then West Francia during the ninth and tenth centuries, perhaps one of the Catalan counties, originally part of the Marca Hispanica in the ninth century. It was coterminous with the upper Noguera Pallaresa valley from the crest of the Pyrenees to the village of Tremp, comprising the Vall d'Àneu, Vall de Cardós, Vall Ferrera, the right bank of the Noguera Ribagorçana, and the valley of the Flamicell. It roughly corresponded with the historic region of Catalonia called Pallars. Its chief city was Sort. \n\nThe early history of Pallars, which was the easternmost extent of Basque settlement, is linked to that of its western neighbour, Ribagorza. Both territories, nominally lands of the Moors, came under the sway of the count of Toulouse perhaps as early as 781, perhaps as late as the start of the 9th century. They formed in turn a new province attached to Toulouse and therefore became Carolingian vassals. \n\nA widely circulated monkish account of 1078 from the Abbey of Santa María de Alaón contains the earliest foundation myth of any of the counties of the Hispanic March. Written at a time when the independence of Pallars and Ribagorza was threatened by the hegemony recently created by the personal union of the Kingdom of Navarre and Kingdom of Aragon (1076). It records that Count Bernard and Bishop Ato, both of Ribagorza and descended by tradition from Charlemagne, spearheaded the conquest and repopulation of Sobrarbe and Pallars respectively and that the bishop held ecclesiastical rule over all three counties. \n\nIn reality, being so far from the centres of Carolingian power, it was easy for the rulers of Toulouse to act as sovereigns in Pallars and Ribagorza, granting privileges to monasteries in a style very similar to that of their own Frankish lords. Two monasteries were founded in the valleys of the two principal rivers of Pallars: Gerri by the Noguera Pallaresa and Senterada by the Flamicell on land granted by the emperor Louis the Pious himself. The revival of monasticism was largely associated with non-Frankish and especially Visigothic clergymen. Charlemagne himself, however, attached Pallars and Ribagorza ecclesiastically to the diocese of Urgell. In 817, Pallars and Ribagorza were made a part of the Kingdom of Aquitaine bestowed on the young Pepin, second son of the emperor Louis the Pious. Throughout the ninth century, the \"aprisio\" had increasingly become a principal form of land division and ownership in Pallars, which was not yet feudalised. Louis the Pious forbade the holding \"in beneficium\" of church property and by the end of the ninth century, most \"aprisiones\" in Pallars had been converted into allods: feudalism was never to take hold.\n\nThe local population — Basque, Visigothic, and Hispano-Roman — rejected the rule of the house of Toulouse. In 833, one Aznar Galíndez, already Count of Urgell and Cerdagne, usurped the \"pagi\" (countries) of Pallars and Ribagorza. He was immediately dispossessed of Urgell and Cerdagne by Louis the Pious (in 834), but managed to hold out in mountainous Pallars and Ribagorza for several more years--until he was expelled, either in 838 by Sunifred I, Count of Barcelona, and partisans of Bernard of Septimania, or in 844 by the Count of Toulouse, Fredelon.\n\nOpposition to Toulousain suzerainty remained, however, while the Toulousain counts governed Pallars through viscounts. In Pallars, vicars were not employed, rather a minor official beneath the viscount called the \"centenarius\" was used. In 872, a crisis enveloped Toulouse when the incumbent count, Bernard II, was assassinated by the \"fideles\" (faithful men) of Bernard Plantapilosa, who was recognised as the late count's successor by the king, Charles the Bald. The men of Pallars and Ribagorza took the opportunity to regain their independence from Toulouse. One of them, a local cacique named Raymond, who had probably originally held them as a subject of Toulouse, found himself count of the territories formerly of Toulouse south of the Pyrenees: the first Count of Pallars and Ribagorza. The loss of Pallars and Ribagorza to Frankish suzerainty was the first step in the gradual weakening of the ties between Catalonia and the Francia. \n\nThe reign of Raymond I began with overtures of peace and alliance with the Muslim governors of nearby Huesca and Zaragoza (then under the Banu Qasi), but to no avail; by the end, a policy of Reconquista had been adopted. The reign also saw a proliferation (encastellation) of \"turres\" (defensive towers) in Pallars and Ribagorza; castles such as Leovalles, Castellous, and Lemignano also multiplied. Raymond also consolidated his \"de facto\" independence from any superior authority by creating a new diocese of Pallars, enabling himself to control the local church. Raymond, a Basque himself, established an alliance with the Jiménez dynasty in Navarre, helping them to take the throne. He lost much of Ribagorza to Huesca in 907 and thereafter ruled mainly just Pallars, which had always been his political base. He died in 920. Pallars was inherited by his two youngest (of four) sons, Isarn and Lope I of Pallars.\n\nThe history of Pallars in the tenth century is obscure. It was ruled by brothers of the native dynasty, which had married into the Bellonid dynasty ruling in Barcelona. Pallars and Ribagorza had experienced a constant decline as brother and cousins divided it up, and the phrase \"in rem valentem\" appearing in charters indicates a transition from a money to a barter economy. By late in the tenth century, the counts of Pallars, still refusing to recognise any authority higher than themselves, began using the title \"marchio\" in documents. By 975, their underlings, the (knights) who governed the countryside from the castles, levied dues, formerly Carolingian royal dues, on the inhabitants for the upkeep of defence, and to line their personal coffers. At the same time, a steady advance was made in the borderlands; many charters make reference to land acquired \"de ruptura\" along in line settlement along the frontier. \n\nWhen Sunyer I, who had outlived his brothers and nephews, and died in 1011, the once independent Pallars, through subdivision of authority, had become subject to influences from Urgell, Barcelona, and Aragon. Sunyer's two sons divided their inheritance, with Raymond III ruling in Pallars Jussà and William II in Pallars Sobirà. \n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "7774432", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7774432", "title": "Dantès Bellegarde", "text": "Dantès Bellegarde\n\nDantès Bellegarde (18 May 1877 – 16 June 1966) was a Haitian historian and diplomat. He is best known for his works \"Histoire du Peuple Haïtien\" (1953), \"La Résistance Haïtienne\" (1937), \"Haïti et ses Problèmes\" (1943), and \"Pour une Haïti Heureuse\" (1928–1929).\n\nBellegarde was born in Port-au-Prince to a poor mulatto family. His impoverished but small bourgeoisie background descended from several historical figures in Haiti's history. His maternal great-grandfather Jacques Ignace-Fresnal was an officer in the army and Haiti's first Minister of Justice, and founder of Haitian Freemasonry. His paternal grandfather, General Jean-Louis Bellegarde, was a former Governor of Port-au-Prince.\n\nBellegarde served as Minister Plenipotentiary to Paris in 1921 and to Washington, D.C., in 1930.\n\nHe was bestowed by France as commander of the Legion of Honour and was holder of the Office of Public Instruction.\n\n"}
{"id": "6315825", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6315825", "title": "Early Buddhism", "text": "Early Buddhism\n\nThe term Early Buddhism can refer to two distinct periods, both of which are covered in a separate article:\n\n\nThe period of \"Early Buddhism\" in the sense of pre-sectarian Buddhism is considered by scholars such as Paul J. Griffiths and Steven Collins to be from the time of the historical Buddha to the reign of Ashoka (c. 268 to 232 BCE). Lamotte and Hirakawa both maintain that the first schism in the Buddhist sangha occurred during the reign of Ashoka. \n\nThe various splits within the monastic organization went together with the introduction and emphasis on Abhidhammic literature by some schools. This literature was specific to each school, and arguments and disputes between the schools were often based on these Abhidhammic writings. However, actual splits were originally based on disagreements on vinaya (monastic discipline), though later on, by about 100 CE or earlier, they could be based on doctrinal disagreement. Pre-sectarian Buddhism, however, did not have Abhidhammic scriptures, except perhaps for a basic framework, and not all of the early schools developed an Abhidhamma literature.\n\nPre-sectarian Buddhism, also called \"early Buddhism\", \"the earliest Buddhism\", and \"original Buddhism\", is the Buddhism that existed before the various subsects of Buddhism came into being.\n\nSome of the contents and teachings of this pre-sectarian Buddhism may be deduced from the earliest Buddhist texts, which by themselves are already sectarian.\n\nThe early Buddhist schools are those schools into which the Buddhist monastic saṅgha initially split, due originally to differences in vinaya and later also due to doctrinal differences and geographical separation of groups of monks.\n\nThe original saṅgha split into the first early schools (generally believed to be the Sthavira nikāya and the Mahāsāṃghika) a significant number of years after the death of Gautama Buddha. According to scholar Collett Cox \"most scholars would agree that even though the roots of the earliest recognized groups predate Aśoka, their actual separation did not occur until after his death.\" Later, these first early schools split into further divisions such as the Sarvāstivādins and the Dharmaguptakas, and ended up numbering, traditionally, about 18 or 20 schools. In fact, there are several overlapping lists of 18 schools preserved in the Buddhist tradition, totaling about twice as many, though some may be alternative names. It is thought likely that the number is merely conventional.\n\nAfter the Sangha split into the various early Buddhist schools and the Mahayana, further elaborations and interpretations of the preserved teachings, and various new doctrines, scriptures and practices. They were composed and developed by the monastic communities, concerning issues deemed important at the time.\n\nThe schools sometimes split over ideological differences concerning the \"real\" meaning of teachings in the \"Sutta Piṭaka\", and sometimes over disagreement concerning the proper observance of vinaya. These ideologies became embedded in large works such as the \"Abhidhamma\"s and commentaries. Comparison of existing versions of the \"Suttapiṭaka\" of various sects shows evidence that ideologies from the \"Abhidhamma\"s sometimes found their way back into the \"Suttapiṭaka\"s to support the statements made in those \"Abhidhammas\". \n\nSome of these developments may be seen as later elaborations on the teachings. According to Gombrich, unintentional literalism was a major force for change in the early doctrinal history of Buddhism. This means that texts were interpreted paying too much attention to the precise words used and not enough to the speaker's intention, the spirit of the text. Some later doctrinal developments in the early Buddhist schools show scholastic literalism, which is a tendency to take the words and phrases of earlier texts (maybe the Buddha's own words) in such a way as to read in distinctions which it was never intended to make.\n\nThe later Mahayana schools may have preserved ideas which were abandoned by the \"orthodox\" Theravada, such as the Three Bodies doctrine, the idea of consciousness (\"vijnana\") as a continuum, and devotional elements such as the worship of saints. \n\nSome Buddhist concepts that were not existent in the time of pre-sectarian Buddhism are:\n\nIn later times, the arguments between the various schools were based in these newly introduced teachings, practices and beliefs, and monks sought to validate these newly introduced teachings and concepts by referring to the older texts (Sutta-pitaka and Vinaya-pitaka). Most often, the various new Abhidhamma and Mahayana teachings were bases for arguments between sects.\n\nAs the last major division of the canon, the Abhidhamma Pitaka has had a checkered history. It was not accepted as canonical by the Mahasanghika school and several other schools. Another school included most of the Khuddaka Nikaya within the Abhidhamma Pitaka. Also, the Pali version of the Abhidhamma is a strictly Theravada collection, and has little in common with the Abhidhamma works recognized by other Buddhist schools. The various Abhidhamma philosophies of the various early schools have no agreement on doctrine and belong to the period of 'Divided Buddhism' (as opposed to Undivided Buddhism). The earliest texts of the Pali Canon (the Sutta Nipata and parts of the Jataka), together with the first four (and early) Nikayas of the Suttapitaka, have no mention of (the texts of) the Abhidhamma Pitaka. The Abhidhamma is also not mentioned at the report of the First Buddhist Council, directly after the death of the Buddha. This report of the first council does mention the existence of the Vinaya and the five Nikayas (of the Suttapitaka).\n\nAlthough the literature of the various Abhidhamma Pitakas began as a kind of commentarial supplement upon the earlier teachings in the Suttapitaka, it soon led to new doctrinal and textual developments and became the focus of a new form of scholarly monastic life. The various Abhidhamma works were starting to be composed from about 200 years after the passing away of the Buddha.\n\nTraditionally, it is believed (in Theravadin culture) that the Abhidhamma was taught by Buddha to his late mother who was living in Tavatimsa heaven. However, this is rejected by scholars, who believe that only small parts of the Abhidhamma literature may have been existent in a very early form. Some schools of Buddhism had important disagreements on subjects of Abhidhamma, while having a largely similar Sutta-pitaka and Vinaya-pitaka. The arguments and conflicts between them were thus often on matters of philosophical Abhidhammic origin, not on matters concerning the actual words and teachings of Buddha.\n\nOne impetus for composing new scriptures like the Adhidhammas of the various schools, according to some scholars, was that Buddha left no clear statement about the ontological status of the world - about what \"really\" exists. Subsequently, later Buddhists have themselves defined what exists and what not (in the Abhidhammic scriptures), leading to disagreements.\n\nOliver Abeynayake has the following to say on the dating of the various books in the Khuddaka Nikaya:\n\nThe texts in the early stratum date from before the second council (earlier than 100 years after Buddha’s parinibbana), while the later stratum is from after the second council, which means they are definitely later additions to the Sutta Pitaka, and that they might not have been the original teachings by the Buddha, but later compositions by disciples.\n\nThe following books of the Khuddaka Nikaya can thus be regarded as later additions:\nand the following three which are included in the Burmese Canon\n\nThe original verses of the Jatakas are recognized as being amongst the earliest part of the Canon, but the accompanying (and more famous) Jataka Stories are purely commentarial, an obvious later addition.\n\nThe Parivara, the last book of the Vinaya Pitaka, is a later addition to the Vinaya Pitaka.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "55647348", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55647348", "title": "Enver Ziya Karal", "text": "Enver Ziya Karal\n\nEnver Ziya Karal (1906–1982) was a former academic in Turkey.\n\nHe was born in Kosovo , then a part of the Ottoman Empire. During the Balkan Wars (1912–1913) in which his father and other relatives were killed, he came to İstanbul to study in the Ortaköy Orphans' School. Later he continued in the Edirne high school. He graduated in 1928 and he travelled to France by the government scholarship.In France he studied history in the University of Lyon\n\nIn 1933 he returned to İstanbul and was appointed as a history associate professor in the School of letters of İstanbul University. In 1942 he came to Ankara as a professor to serve in the School of Language and History - Geography (). Between 30 April 1948 and 22 June 1949 he was elected as the rector of Ankara University.In 1960 he gained the title distinguished professor. He also lectured in the University of Columbia in the United States and the University of Manchester in the United Kingdom as a visiting professor.\n\nIn 1953, he was tasked with the restoration of Atatürk's house in Thessaloniki, Greece . In the Constituent Assembly of Turkey in 1960–1961 term, he was elected as the speaker of the committee which was responsible for the new constitution. In 1971 he served in European Commission in behalf of Turkey. Between he 1972–1982 he was the president of Turkish Historical Society. He died on 18 January 1982 in Ankara \n"}
{"id": "4696652", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4696652", "title": "Fashoda syndrome", "text": "Fashoda syndrome\n\nFashoda syndrome, or a 'Fashoda complex', is the name given to a tendency within French foreign policy in Africa, giving importance to asserting French influence in areas which might be becoming susceptible to British influence. It is named for the Fashoda incident (1898) which is judged to have given rise to it. In \"The State of Africa\", the British historian Martin Meredith says:\n\nMeredith judges that the 1990 French intervention in Rwanda was an expression of the \"syndrome\". Rwanda lies on the border between \"Francophone\" and \"Anglophone\" Africa. In 1990, there was a short-lived invasion by the Rwandan Patriotic Front (RPF), a coalition of Tutsi exiles and those advocating democratic reform. Many of the RPF had grown up in Tutsi refugee camps in formerly British-controlled Uganda and had learned to fight in the Ugandan army, and Uganda was seen by Paris as being, at that time, within the British sphere of influence.\n\nThe Fashoda complex has been used in connection with foreign policies of other countries, particularly Egypt and Sudan.\n\n"}
{"id": "48779950", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48779950", "title": "Frank Broeze", "text": "Frank Broeze\n\nFrank Broeze (18 August 1945 – 4 April 2001) was a Professor of History at the University of Western Australia. His special area of interest was maritime history.\n\nBorn Franklin Jan Aart Broeze in Rijswijk, Netherlands, Broeze was a maritime historian, and was one of the founders of the Australian Association for Maritime History. He published widely on maritime history issues as well as editing. He wrote ten books and had more than 100 articles published in academic journals.\n\nBroeze died on 4 April 2001 in Perth, Western Australia. The Frank Broeze Memorial Maritime History Book Prize was created by the Australian National Maritime Museum in his memory. In addition, a memorial lecture was inaugurated.\n"}
{"id": "13395101", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13395101", "title": "From Atlantis to the Sphinx", "text": "From Atlantis to the Sphinx\n\nFrom Atlantis to the Sphinx is a work of non-fiction by British author, Colin Wilson, with the subheading \"Recovering the Lost Wisdom of the Ancient World\".\n\nWilson proposes in the text that the Great Sphinx of Giza was constructed by a technologically advanced people \"nearly 10,000 years before Egyptologists have hypothesized\" by the same people who provided plans for the construction of the pyramids of Egypt, Central and South America.\n\nThe book explores the connection between astronomy and mythology, arguing that ancient man used \"Lunar knowledge\" (intuition) as opposed to modern man's \"Solar knowledge\" (logic) to interpret the universe and therefore possessed an entirely different but equally valid mentality from that of modern man. Wilson proposes that the outlook of ancient man was based on \"seeing the big picture\" rather than logically breaking down the universe into its constituent parts.\n\nWilson develops this idea of civilisations founded on Lunar Knowledge together with astronomy to explain the monumental and seemingly spontaneous achievements of ancient cultures such as the Pyramid Complex at Giza in Egypt.\n\nWilson argues that the essential weakness of James Frazer's \"The Golden Bough\" is that Frazer attributed the fundamental mythological systems to the beginnings of the farming cultures, specifically to fertility. Agreeing with Giorgio de Santillana's thesis developed in \"Hamlet's Mill\", Wilson places the genesis of mythology previous to fertility cultures, linking the fundamental myths to astronomical occurrences such as the Precession of the Equinoxes.\n\nThe main observations drawn by Wilson are that our ancient pre-\"Homo sapiens\" ancestors possessed intelligence equal to that of modern man, their apparent lack of technological achievement being explained by the needlessness of it based on their completely different, intuitive and all-embracing mentality. Over time, a more logical and dissecting mentality evolved leading to the traits which mark modern civilisations.\n"}
{"id": "666100", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=666100", "title": "Glocalization", "text": "Glocalization\n\nGlocalization (a portmanteau of globalization and localization) is the \"simultaneous occurrence of both universalizing and particularizing tendencies in contemporary social, political, and economic systems.\" The notion of glocalization \"represents a challenge to simplistic conceptions of globalization processes as linear expansions of territorial scales. Glocalization indicates that the growing importance of continental and global levels is occurring together with the increasing salience of local and regional levels.\" \n\nThe term first appeared in a late 1980s publication of the \"Harvard Business Review\". At a 1997 conference on \"Globalization and Indigenous Culture\", sociologist Roland Robertson stated that glocalization \"means the simultaneity – the co-presence – of both universalizing and particularizing tendencies.\"\n\nGlocal, an adjective, by definition, is \"reflecting or characterized by both local and global considerations.\"\n\n\nThe concept comes from the Japanese word \"dochakuka,\" which means global localization. It had referred to the adaptation of farming techniques to local conditions. It became a buzzword when Japanese business adopted it in the 1980s. The word stems from Manfred Lange, head of the German National Global Change Secretariat, who used \"glocal\" in reference to Heiner Benking's exhibit: Blackbox Nature: Rubik's Cube of Ecology at an international science and policy conference.\n\nThe term entered use in the English-speaking world via Robertson in the 1990s, Canadian sociologists Keith Hampton and Barry Wellman in the late 1990s and Zygmunt Bauman. Erik Swyngedouw was another early adopter.\n\nSince the 1990s, glocalization has been productively theorized by several sociologists and other social scientists, and may be understood as a process that combines the concerns of localism with the forces of globalization, or a local adaptation and interpretation of global forces. As a theoretical framework, it is compatible with many of the concerns of postcolonial theory, and its impact is particularly recognizable in the digitization of music and other forms of cultural heritage.\n\nGlocalization works best for companies which have decentralized authority. The cost to the companies increases as they cannot standardise products and projects, different cultures have different needs and wants which is highlighted in this challenge. An example of a company succeeding in creating new products for their emerging market is McDonald's new rice meals in India and China This shows that McDonald's has done research on and understands their new market's requirements for a successful takeaway food. This however can be very costly and time-consuming.\n\nAn example of a global business that has faced challenges due to localization of their products can be presented through the closing of a Starbucks in the Forbidden City of China in 2007. Starbuck's attempt to localize into the culture of China by accommodating their menu to local elements such as serving \"green tea frappuccinos\" and enlarging their stores was prevalent in most areas of China, but when Starbucks spread to the Forbidden City, a problem surrounding cultural identity arose. Factors surrounding \"western influences\" related to Starbucks were seen as a threat by a web-based campaign who was successful in initiating the closing of the Starbucks in the Forbidden City. The leader of this web-based campaign, whose name is Rui, in his words had stated \"All I want is that Starbucks move out of the Forbidden City peacefully and quietly, and we'll continue enjoying Starbucks coffee elsewhere in the city.\" \n\nAlthough there are many challenges to globalisation when done right it has many benefits, allowing companies to reach a larger target market is just one of them. Society also benefits when globalisation occurs as an increase in market competition generally pushes the price of products down which means the consumers benefit by gaining a lower price point. This decreases the inequality gap as people who couldn't previously afford products when the market was controlled by local monopolies are able to purchase the product for cheaper.\n\nAlthough globalisation has benefits to the consumer it does not always benefit the producer with newer and smaller companies struggling to keep up with the low production costs of the multi-national competitors. This results in either a higher price and loss of consumers or a lower profit margin which in turn results in less competition within the market.\n\nGlocalization of education has been proposed in the specific areas of politics, economics, culture, teaching, information, organization, morality, spirituality, religion and \"temporal\" literacy. The recommended approach is for local educators to consult global resources for materials and techniques and then adapt them for local use. For example, in information, it involves advancing computer and media understanding to allow students and educators to look beyond their local context.\n\nThomas Friedman in \"The World Is Flat\" talks about how the Internet encourages glocalization, such as encouraging people to make websites in their native languages.\n\nTelevision\n\nBesides the usage of Internet, television and commercials have become useful strategies that global companies have used to help localize their products. Companies, such as McDonald's, have relied on television and commercials in not only the Western Hemisphere but in other parts of the world to attract a varying ranges of audiences in accordance to the demographic of the local area. For example, they have used mascots ranging anywhere from a male clown in the Western Hemisphere to attract younger audiences to an \"attractive\" female clown in Japan to attract older audiences.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "58711548", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58711548", "title": "Helen Rand Parish", "text": "Helen Rand Parish\n\nHelen Rand Parish (1912 - 2005) was an American writer, linguist, and social justice scholar.\n\nParish and her twin sister, Olive, were born in Waterbury, Connecticut on October 10, 1912. At a young age, the twins became research subjects of Arnold Gesell, a child development pioneer who founded the Yale Clinic of Child Development. The twins graduated summa cum laude from college and went on to receive master's degrees in American literature from Yale University by the age of 17. The Parish sisters also did graduate studies on Latin American problems at USC. Helen went on to study at the National University in Mexico City and eventually moved to Berkeley in 1936, where she settled. Parish was drawn there by Latin American scholar Eugene Bolton, who accepted both Helen and Olive into his seminar on 16th-Century Spanish colonial history.\n\nParish began her writing career in journalism, first with the \"Atlanta Constitution\", writing with her sister under the joint byline \"The Parish Twins,\" and later for other papers including the \"New York Daily Mirror\" and the \"New York Times\". They frequently collaborated on stories with their mother who was also a writer.\n\nParish worked as a free-lance writer, ghost-writing a number of books for Viking Press, as well as pursuing her scholarly interests at Bancroft Library at UC Berkeley. Parish eventually became a research associate there, where she assembled the world's largest collection of rare Las Casas books and documents.\n\nAs a bi-lingual writer, Parish wrote in English and Spanish, focusing mainly on non-fiction books and essays on the life and writings of Bartolome de las Casas, as well as themes of Christianity and Central America, the relationship between Latin America and the United States, and Spanish American literature. Parish co-wrote with Henry Raup Wagner: \"The Life and Writings of Bartolome de Las Casas\" (1967). Additionally, Parish wrote three juvenile fiction books, all with different ancient history motifs. Parish was a strong supporter for the canonization of Bartolome de las Casas. Understanding that canonizations can take centuries, Parish remarked in 1992: \"I have never asked to live to see the canonization, only to finish my work.\"\n\nAt Cesar Chavez Park in Berkeley, California, a memorial plaque for Parish sits attached to a large rock.\n"}
{"id": "21466371", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21466371", "title": "Helsinki Burlesque Festival", "text": "Helsinki Burlesque Festival\n\nThe Helsinki Burlesque Festival is an annual burlesque festival held in Helsinki, Finland, in late winter every year. The festival was started in 2008 by the Hulapirates Team (Bettie Blackheart, Frank Doggenstein and Kiki Hawaiji). Since 2010, the festival has been produced by Bettie Blackheart and Frank Doggenstein from the Helsinki Burlesque organization.\n\nThe festival lasts approximately one week, starting on Friday and ending on Sunday the following week, although not all days have events. The main event is held on Saturday on the second week, and consists mainly of performances by various burlesque artists. Events have so far been held in:\n\nAs well as the main event, the festival also includes drawing classes and workshops for aspiring burlesque artists. Related exhibitions are also held around Helsinki. \n\n"}
{"id": "1593188", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1593188", "title": "Horacio de la Costa", "text": "Horacio de la Costa\n\nHoracio de la Costa (May 9, 1916 – March 20, 1977) was the first Filipino Provincial Superior of the Society of Jesus in the Philippines, and a recognized authority in Philippine and Asian culture and history.\n\nA brilliant writer, scholar, and historian, Horacio de la Costa was born in Maúban, Quezon on May 9, 1916 to Judge Sixto de la Costa and Emiliana Villamayor. Ordained a Jesuit priest at the age of 30, he became, at age 55, the first Filipino provincial superior of this religious order, the Society of Jesus.\n\nDe la Costa first attended the public elementary school in Batangas before moving on to the Ateneo de Manila, where he distinguished himself for academic excellence and student leadership, particularly as a writer and, later, as editor of the \"Guidon\", the campus newspaper. After earning there his Bachelor of Arts degree, summa cum laude, in 1935, he entered the Society of Jesus at the Sacred Heart Novitiate in Novaliches, where he later completed his Master's degree. Afterward, he went back to the Ateneo to teach philosophy and history for two years. During this time, he also worked as a writer and radio talent for the Chesteron Evidence Guild, more specifically, the \"Common Weal Hour\", for which he created the character of Teban, the \"calesa\" driver, at the height of the controversy over the 1940 divorce bill. The program evolved into \"Kuwentong Kutsero\", consisting of satirical tales dealing mostly with life in Manila.\n\nDuring the war, the Japanese imprisoned him for two months in Fort Santiago for his role in the resistance movement. He helped Rev. Fr. John F. Hurley, the Jesuits' superior, in taking clothes and medicines to American and Filipino soldiers who had evaded capture by the Japanese or escaped from Japanese prison camps. For this, he was awarded the Medal of Freedom by the United States government in 1946. Early in 1946, he left for the United States to pursue further studies in theology at Woodstock College, Maryland, where he was ordained a priest on March 24, 1946 by American Bishop John F. McNamara. He received his doctorate degree in history at Harvard University in 1951.\n\nBack in the Philippines, he served anew with the faculty of the Ateneo de Manila in 1953, later becoming its first Filipino college dean while teaching history at the same time. In 1958, he was made a consultant of the Philippine province of the Society of Jesus and, in 1959, assumed the editorship of its scholarly publication, . Fr. de la Costa received a Smith-Mundt-Fuldright scholarship in 1960. In 1962, he became a research associate of the London School of Oriental and African Studies. During this period, he received honorary doctorates from the University of Santo Tomás, Tokyo's Sophia University, and Dumaguete's Silliman University.\n\nOn December 8, 1964, he assumed office as provincial superior of the Philippine province of the Society of Jesus. His election ended the long line of Spanish and American Jesuits who were elected to the said post in the Philippines.\n\nDe la Costa was the author of a number of books, particularly on Philippine culture and history, which revealed his nationalistic bent, among which are: \n\nHe also contributed numerous articles on these subjects to various local and foreign scholarly publications, such as \"Philippine Social Sciences and Humanities Review\", \"Bulletin of the Philippine Historical Association\", \"Hispanic American Historical Review\", \"Comment\", \"Science Review\", \"Theological Studies\", and . The Catholic Encyclopedia carries his article on the Philippines.\n\nIn 1965, he was presented the Republic Heritage Award by the then Philippine President Diosdado Macapagal for his historical writings. In 1971 he became General Assistant to the Superior General of the Society of Jesus, Pedro Arrupe, in Rome.\n\nFr. de le Costa was one of the founding members of the Philippine Academy of Science and Humanities, as well as the International Association of Historians of Asia. He was also a member of the National Research Council of the Philippines, Philippine Bibliographical Society, Philippine Historical Association and the National Historical Society of the National Historical Commission.\n\nA few years before his death, De la Costa attended the General Congregation of Jesuits from all over the world in Rome. In need of a composition on \"The Jesuits Today\", the delegates entrusted him the preparation. He worked on it by himself for three days. When he was finished, he returned to the congregation and read his draft. His composition was accepted exactly as he had written it.\n\nDe la Costa died of cancer on March 20, 1977 at the age of 60. He was buried in the Jesuit Novitiate Compound in Novaliches, Quezon City.\n\nFor his achievements in the Jesuit Philippine Province and the Jesuit congregation in general, the Loyola School of Theology of the Ateneo de Manila University was inaugurated while the Horacio de la Costa Hall in the same university was named, both in his honor.\n\nA street in Salcedo Village in Makati's central business district, where the Ateneo de Manila's Salcedo Campus (which is home to the university's Graduate School of Business and the Center for Continuing Education) is located has been named in his honor as well.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "51295632", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51295632", "title": "John Wesley Cromwell", "text": "John Wesley Cromwell\n\nJohn Wesley Cromwell (September 5, 1846 - April 14, 1927) was a lawyer, teacher, civil servant, journalist, historian, and civil rights activist in Washington, DC. He was among the founders of the Bethel Literary and Historical Society and the American Negro Academy, both based in the capital. He worked for decades in administration of the US Post Office.\n\nHe also was a founder, editor, or contributor to a number of newspapers and journals, including most prominently the \"People's Advocate.\" In the later half of his career, he wrote a number of articles and manuscripts and gave a number of speeches which established him as a leading scholar of African-American history. In 1887, he was described as the \"best English scholar in the United States.\" Cromwell was also successful as a lawyer late in life and was the first black lawyer to appear before the Interstate Commerce Commission.\n\nJohn Wesley Cromwell was born into slavery on September 5, 1846 in Portsmouth, Virginia. He was the youngest of twelve children. His parents were Willis H. and Elizabeth (Carney) Cromwell. Cromwell's father worked as a ferryman on the Elizabeth River and was allowed to keep some of his wages. One brother, Levi, later became well known as a caterer in Washington, DC.\n\nIn 1851, their father purchased freedom for his family, and they moved to Philadelphia in the free state of Pennsylvania. John attended school there from 1851 to 1856. He moved to a teaching school, the Preparatory Department of the Institute for Colored Youth, where Ebenezer Bassett was the principal. Cromwell graduated in the summer of 1864.\n\nHe moved to Columbia, Pennsylvania that fall in October 1864 to begin his career as a teacher. When the school in Columbia closed, Cromwell returned to Portsmouth, Virginia in April 1865 in the closing days of the American Civil War, starting a private school where he worked until the fall.\n\nBy the end of 1865 Cromwell returned to Philadelphia; he taught at the Baltimore Association for the Moral and Intellectual Improvement of the Colored People. In March 1866, the school was attacked and burned to the ground and Cromwell was shot at. He continued to work for the organization until May. That month he returned to Virginia, working for the American Missionary Association at Providence Church in Norfolk County, Virginia. It was establishing schools across the South. At this time, he became more active in politics. He also briefly worked in the grocery business.\n\nIn Virginia, Cromwell became involved in public affairs. In 1867, Cromwell was in the US District Court Jury Pool and served in the jury on a number of cases of government officials. In April 17, 1867, he was a delegate to the Republican convention in Richmond, Virginia and again to the Republican State convention in Richmond, Virginia in August. Later that year, he attended the Virginia Constitutional Convention, where he was elected clerk.\n\nIn 1869, Cromwell returned to teaching, working with the Quaker group, the Philadelphia Friends. That year, Cromwell was an eyewitness to the assassination of Joseph R. Holmes, a fellow member of the Constitutional Convention and a candidate for the Virginia House of Delegates. In 1869 and 1870, he taught at a grade school in Withersville, Virginia. In 1870 he returned to the capital Richmond, where he was principal of a black school held in Dill's Bakery. In the summer of 1871, he taught a term in Southampton County. This experience influenced his later writings on Nat Turner's slave rebellion of 1831, which had occurred nearby.\n\nIn the fall of 1871, Cromwell moved to Washington DC and enrolled in the Howard University Law Department. He graduated in March 1874 and was admitted to the bar before the Supreme Court of the District of Columbia. In the meantime, in 1872, Cromwell passed the civil service exam to qualify for an appointment in the federal government. He took a position as a government clerk. In this exam, he had the highest score of his cohort. He also took a merit exam to qualify for teaching, and scored at the top. He accepted a teaching appointment for a time in Washington County, Virginia.\n\nIn 1873 and 1874, Cromwell was twice promoted in his clerkship and, along with Robert William Waring, was one of the first two black clerks to receive such an office. He was promoted to chief examiner of the division of the money order department, and was register of money order accounts until his retirement from the civil service in 1885. In April 1875, federal clerks took part in two spelling bees, which were covered by newspapers across the country. Cromwell was a finalist in both. He was successful as a lawyer and was the first black lawyer to appear before the Interstate Commerce Commission.\n\nIn 1875, Cromwell was a part of organizing the Virginia Educational and Historical Association; he served as its president until 1883, when it closed. Cromwell was also active as a journalist. In 1876, he organized a journal, the \"People's Advocate\" in Alexandria, Virginia, which moved to Washington DC the next year. He ran it until 1884. In 1883, he was president of the Bethel Literary society. He was a member of the Odd Fellows and of the Metropolitan AME Church. He represented the District in the 1884 World's Fair, also known as the Cotton Centennial Exhibition, at New Orleans.\n\nIn 1881 Cromwell and Daniel Alexander Payne founded the Bethel Literary and Historical Association, and he served as president of that lyceum in 1883. In 1897, Cromwell was a part of the formation of the American Negro Academy founded by Alexander Crummell. He served as the organization's corresponding secretary until 1919. In 1919, he served as the fourth president for a short period. From 1901 to 1909 he was editor of the Washington weekly, the \"Washington Record.\" In 1910, he and James Robert Lincoln Diggs established the American Negro Monograph Company, a publishing company which lasted for eleven months.\n\nFrom 1901 to 1909 he taught and served as principals of several District schools, including Briggs, Garnet, Banneker, and Crummell schools.\n\nBeyond his work as an educator, Cromwell played a significant role in the direction of black American thought. The Bethel Literary Organization, which he helped create and direct, and his speeches at other lyceums in the capital were highly influential. In 1900, Cromwell made a substantial donation of materials to the Howard University Library now called the Cromwell Collection.\n\nCromwell was a strong advocate of black-owned businesses and encouraged black economic success. He believed black people should try to frequent black-owned businesses. Cromwell was considered an important statistician and historian in the later part of his life. He had great contempt for efforts to minimize the cost of slavery to blacks in America and focused significant attention on slave insurrections. Cromwell wrote that Nat Turner's revolt was an example of black people working to \"help himself rather than depend on the other human agencies for the protection which could come through his own strong arm.\"\n\nCromwell wrote many papers and a number of book-length pieces. Cromwell's 1914 book, \"The Negro in American History: Men and Women Eminent in the Evolution of the American of African Descent,\" influenced Carter G. Woodson to create the Association for the Study of Negro Life and History in 1915. Cromwell later published articles in the \"Journal of Negro History.\"\n\nIn 1873 Cromwell married Lucy A. McGuinn of Richmond and had seven children with her. The couple stressed the importance of education for all their children, who included Otelia, Mary E., Martha, Lucy, John Wesley Jr., and Brent.\n\nOtelia Cromwell, born in 1874, became the first black graduate of Smith College. She was a teacher and professor at Miners Teacher College, and received a PhD from Yale in 1926. Mary E. Cromwell was born in 1876 and taught mathematics. John Wesley Cromwell, Jr. was born in 1883 and taught mathematics, German, and bookkeeping; he became the first black certified public accountant.\n\nAfter Lucy's death, in 1892 Cromwell married Annie E. Conn of Mechanicsburg, Pennsylvania.\n\nCromwell died April 14, 1927. His granddaughter Adelaide M. Cromwell, child of John Wesley Jr., is a noted sociologist and historian.\n"}
{"id": "18317096", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18317096", "title": "Joseph Genesius", "text": "Joseph Genesius\n\nGenesius (, \"Genesios\") is the conventional name given to the anonymous Byzantine author of Armenian origin of the tenth century chronicle, \"On the reign of the emperors\". His first name is sometimes given as Joseph, combining him with a \"Joseph Genesius\" quoted in the preamble to John Skylitzes. Traditionally, he has been regarded as the son or grandson of Constantine Maniakes.\n\nComposed at the court of Constantine VII, the chronicle opens in 814, covers the period and ends in 886. It presents the events largely from the view of the Macedonian dynasty, though with a skew less marked than the authors of Theophanes Continuatus, a collection of mostly anonymous chronicles meant to continue the work of Theophanes the Confessor.\n\nThe chronicle describes the reigns of the four emperors from Leo V down to Michael III in detail; and more briefly that of Basil I. It uses Constantine VII's \"Life of Basil\" as a source, though it appears to have been finished before Theophanes Continuatus, and gives information present in neither Continuatus nor Skylitzes.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "38085540", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38085540", "title": "List of the last monarchs in Europe", "text": "List of the last monarchs in Europe\n\nThis is a list of last monarchs of Europe.\n\n"}
{"id": "48465417", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48465417", "title": "Lorenzo de Monacis", "text": "Lorenzo de Monacis\n\nLorenzo de Monacis was a distinguished diplomat of the Venetian Republic. He was also an influential historian who wrote the history of Venice, a work which formed the basis of Marcantonio Sabellico's writings on the history of Venice.\n\nDe Monacis combined early humanist ideas and his own experience as a diplomat during a time of expansion of the Venetian imperium and developed literary works which sought to give an ideological basis to Venetian expansionism. His works provided Venice with an ideological support base which justified the initial stages of the Venetian incursions into Italy and Dalmatia.\n\nIn 1386 Lorenzo de Monacis accompanied Venetian diplomat Pantaleone Barbo to Hungary representing Venice's interests during a crisis involving the succession to the Hungarian throne. The diplomatic mission was successful as described in a report by de Monacis to the Venetian government. During the mission, de Monacis wrote a poem defending Hungarian queens Mary and Elizabeth who were accused of the murder of Charles II of Hungary.\n\nIn 1389, de Monacis accompanied Barbo again on another diplomatic mission to Hungary when they fell victims to robbery. The two diplomats, having lost all their personal belongings during the incident, received 60 gold ducats as compensation awarded to them by the \"Maggior Consiglio\" of Venice. De Monacis returned to Hungary on another mission in 1390.\n\nIn November 1388 de Monacis was elected Grand Chancellor of Crete, one of the most prestigious offices in the Venetian realm. During that time he also supervised the agreement between Venice and Maria d'Enghien, inheritor of Argos-Nafplion, which saw the sale of the two cities to Venice for 500 ducats.\n\nIn 1395, while still Chancellor of Crete, he was sent to France along with Giovanni Alberto, a fellow diplomat, to settle a trade dispute through diplomacy.\n\nDe Monacis wrote a variety of works such as histories, poems, diplomatic reports, and orations in Latin. The common thread of his works was the ideological position that Venice was a force for good and defender of freedom which protected its neighbours who gratefully accepted its dominion over them in exchange for the stability it provided them. His works formed the ideological background which justified the early stages of Venetian expansion into Italy and Dalmatia.\n\nHis work \"Chronicon de rebus Venetis ab U.C. ad annum 1354...\", ed. Fl. Corner (Venice, 1758), has been described as a \"very valuable source for thirteenth-century prosopography\", due to the fact that it contains original material from archives that de Monacis was able to access in Venice and Candia due to his position.\n\nAs a historiographer, de Monacis has attempted to give a more balanced account of the sack of Constantinople by the Latins by using non-Venetian sources such as Nicetas Choniates; the Venetian sources had a heavy, anti-Byzantine bias.\n"}
{"id": "21712522", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21712522", "title": "Maureen Ursenbach Beecher", "text": "Maureen Ursenbach Beecher\n\nMaureen Ursenbach Beecher (born March 19, 1935) is a historian and editor of the history of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints (LDS Church). She studied at Brigham Young University (BYU) and the University of Utah. She worked in the History Department for the LDS Church from 1972 to 1980, and became a professor of English at BYU in 1981 while continuing her work in Mormon history at the Joseph Fielding Smith Institute for Church History. She published a popular book of Eliza R. Snow's writings.\n\nBeecher was born on March 19, 1935, in Calgary, Alberta, Canada, the youngest of four children. Her parents were Charles Ursenbach and Margaret Lucille Harvey. She attended Sunalta School in Calgary, followed by studies at University of Alberta, Calgary and Edmonton branches to finish her secondary education. She studied at BYU majoring in mathematics and English and graduating in 1958. She served as a Missionary (The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints) for the LDS Church later in 1958 in the Swiss-Austrian mission. After returning from her mission, she studied at the University of Utah, receiving her master's in English in 1966 and her PhD in comparative literature in 1973.\n\nBeecher was an editor and senior research associate in the History Department for the LDS Church from 1972 to 1980. She was the founding president of the Association for Mormon Letters in 1976. In 1981 she took a position as an English professor at BYU while also a research professor in the Joseph Fielding Smith Institute for Church History there. Beecher retired from BYU in 1997. She was the general editor for the Life Writings of Frontier Women series and published two books on Eliza R. Snow, including a definitive edition of Snow's writings, \"The Personal Writings of Eliza Roxcy Snow\". The book won two awards and was popular, selling out of its first printing.\n\nBeecher married Dale Beecher. They later divorced.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "5902757", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5902757", "title": "National Museum of Finland", "text": "National Museum of Finland\n\nThe National Museum of Finland (, ) presents Finnish history from the Stone Age to the present day, through objects and cultural history. The Finnish National Romantic style building is located in central Helsinki and is a part of the National Board of Antiquities (, ), under the Ministry of Culture and Education.\n\nThe permanent exhibitions of the National Museum are divided into six parts. The Treasure Troves presents the collections of coins, medals, orders and decorations, silver, jewellery and weapons.\nPrehistory of Finland is the largest permanent archeological exhibition in Finland.\n\"The Realm\" presents of the development of Finnish society and culture from the Middle Ages 12th century to the early 20th century, through the Swedish Kingdom Period to the Russian Empire Era. The \"Land and Its People\" presents Finnish folk culture in the 18th and 19th centuries, life in the countryside before the industrialisation.\nExhibition on 20th century Finland and Finns called \"Suomi Finland 1900\" was open from 26 April 2012 to 1 March 2015.\n\nThe planning and construction of the new permanent exhibition at The National Museum is in progress. \nDue to this The Treasure Troves exhibition is closed from 9 November 2015 and Prehistory of Finland exhibition is closed from 30 August 2015. The new permanent exhibition will open 2017-2018. \nThe first part, The Profane Middle Ages, has already opened in room 105.\n\nWorkshop Vintti - Easy History, is an interactive exhibition, where visitors can study the history of Finland and its culture using their hands and brains. It is based on experimentation and personal experience, and the tasks and assignments also point the way to exploring the permanent exhibitions of the museum.\n\nThe museum's entrance hall ceiling has ceiling frescoes in the national epic Kalevala theme, painted by Akseli Gallén-Kallela, which can be seen without an entrance fee. The frescoes, painted in 1928, are based on the frescoes painted by Gallén-Kallela in the Finnish Pavilion of the Paris World Fair in 1900.\n\nThe building of the National Museum was designed by architects Herman Gesellius, Armas Lindgren, and Eliel Saarinen. The appearance of the building reflects Finland's medieval churches and castles. The architecture belongs to national romanticism and the interior mainly to art nouveau. The museum was built from 1905 to 1910 and opened to the public in 1916. The museum was named the Finnish National Museum after Finland's independence in 1917. After the last thorough renovation, the Museum was re-opened in July 2000.\n\nThe museum collections include also the Mesa Verde artifacts from the cliff dwellings of Colorado. These were donated to the museum by the Finland Swedish explorer Gustaf Nordenskiöld. They comprise the most-extensive collection of Mesa Verde items outside the United States and one of the largest collections of native Americana outside the American continents.\nThese artifacts were on display until May 2013 at the Museum of Cultures in Helsinki.\n\nOn Monday 23 January 2006 there was an explosion accident at the National Museum in the Silver Room, which was caused by methane leaking into a broom cupboard from the drainage through dried floor drain and lit by a spark from the power distribution cabinet in the cleaning closet. There were two possible sources for the methane; a leak from a gas pipe under the nearby Museokatu street, or gas that developed on its own in the sewer. Later, police investigations found the cause to be a gas pipe leak. . \nMost display cases and only 49 pieces out of more than 200 silver objects in the museum's Silver Room were damaged in the explosion, although most of them only mildly. Nobody was hurt. All objects have been repaired during 2006. The Silver Room was re-opened to the public in early 2007.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "8956332", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8956332", "title": "Nicolaus Mameranus", "text": "Nicolaus Mameranus\n\nNicolaus Mameranus (6 December 1500 – 1567) was a Luxembourg soldier and historian under Charles V, for whom he travelled widely, recording faithfully the composition of foreign courts and the customs of foreign countries. All his writings are in Latin. Mameranus was born in Mamer, probably as Nik Wagener. He was a very conservative Roman Catholic, full of abuse for Lutherans and other Protestants.\n\nMameranus succeeded in having Charles V pay for the restoration of his native Mamer after the Duke of Orléans' troops pillaged it in 1543. In 1555, Charles V appointed him poet laureate and Count Palatine in recognition of his continued support.\n\nHe probably died in Augsburg, Germany, in 1567.\n\n"}
{"id": "18454243", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18454243", "title": "Ong Chit Chung", "text": "Ong Chit Chung\n\nOng Chit Chung (; 28 January 1949 – 14 July 2008) was a Singaporean politician and Member of Parliament (MP). He was also a military historian at the National University of Singapore.\n\nEntering politics in 1988, Ong served the Bukit Batok Constituency for two terms, before the constituency became part of the Bukit Timah Group Representation Constituency in 1996, and the constituency becoming a part of the Jurong Group Representation Constituency in 2001. In 1991, Ong was appointed Parliamentary Secretary for Ministry of Home Affairs and Labour. During his twenty years in politics, Ong also served as the Chairman for the Government Parliamentary Committees for Education, Defence and Foreign Affairs.\n\nOng was also known as a historian with several publications about World War II.\n\nOng died from heart cancer at home on 14 July 2008, leaving behind a wife and two sons.\n\nHis vacant seat for his Bukit Batok ward was replaced by Madam Halimah Yacob.\n\nOn 2 August 2008, Ong's alma mater, Victoria School, named a student leadership award after Ong. Called the Dr. Ong Chit Chung Leadership Award, it is awarded to high-performing students in the school. Ong's old Chief Librarian badge that was used when he was still in Victoria School, was presented by Ong's widow to the principal Low Eng Teong, and was later added to the collection in the school's heritage centre.\n\nThe Ong Chit Chung Memorial Scholarship is also named after him.\n"}
{"id": "15942940", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15942940", "title": "Parsadan Gorgijanidze", "text": "Parsadan Gorgijanidze\n\nP'arsadan Gorgijanidze (; or Giorgijanidze, გიორგიჯანიძე) (1626 – ) was a Georgian factotum and historian in the service of the Safavids. Early in his career he served at the residence of the viceroy (\"vali\") of Kartli, and later at the Safavid court in Isfahan. He is principally known for his informative chronicles \"The History of Georgia\" (საქართველოს ისტორია, \"sak’art’velos istoria\").\n\nBorn in the town of Gori, Gorgijanidze was brought up at the local court of the Safavid viceroy (\"vali\") of Kartli, Rostom (Rostam), in Tbilisi. He engaged in Georgian-Iranian diplomacy early in his career. In 1656, he was appointed, through the recommendation of Rostom, as a \"darugha\" (prefect) of the Safavid capital, Isfahan. Gorgijanidze converted to Islam on the occasion, entered the \"gholam\" corps, and was to spend four decades in the service of the kings (\"shahs\") Abbas II (1642-1666) and Suleiman I (1666-1694). \n\nFor thirty years, Rostom had held the function of prefect of Isfahan, though the actual administration was maintained by the deputy prefect, Mir Qasem Beg. Circumstances changed for Gorgijanidze, when grand vizier Mohammad Beg (1654-1661), who was responsible for the dismissal and execution of Mir Qasem Beg, tried to pursue his grudge by using the new prefect, Gorjijanidze, in his scheme. Angered by the fact that king Abbas II had not ordered for the confiscation of Mir Qasem's property, he encouraged Gorgijanidze to accept bribes and perform extortion. Mohammad Beg wanted to show, that if a newly appointed prefect could amass such amounts of wealth in a short period of time, then Mir Qasem Beg must have had \"pocketed fantastic amounts of money\" in his thirty years of holding the office as deputy. Gorgijanidze soon followed the grand vizier's advice.\n\nHowever, it was not Gorgijanidze's attempt at gathering wealth that caused his direct downfall. Shortly after his appointment as prefect of the capital, Parsadan's harsh administrative rearrangements and new laws raised him opposition with the Isfahanians, and his direct superior Ughurlu Beg, the \"divanbegi\" (chancellor, chief justice), who received complaints about Gorgijanidze's misrule. The \"divanbegi\" took the side of the citizens, and had a part in the rioting that ensued. Mohammad Beg, realizing that his scheme was getting thwarted by Ughurlu Beg, formed the event to make it look like a \"threat to security\" for which the \"divanbegi\" should be held responsible. After the report was made to king Abbas II by Mohammad Beg, Ughurlu Beg was removed from his post and blinded, while Parsadan was also dismissed from his post. Abbas II then appointed Parsadan as the new \"eshik-agha\" (Master of Ceremonies) of the royal court, and gave him five villages in the confines of Golpayegan as a fief. Parsadan's family remained in Kartli, but several of its members were also active in mainland Iran. Thus, one of Parsandan's brothers, Alexander, served as the \"zarabibash\" (chief of the Shah's mint) of Isfahan; another, Melik Sadat-Bek, was \"yuzbash\" (lieutenant) of the shah’s army. Parsadan's son, David, was trained as an officer of the shah's guard (\"gholam\").\n\nGorgijanidze found himself involved in the incessant intrigues in the Safavid administration and twice fell in disfavor with the shah. His post also allowed Gorgijanidze to intervene in the domestic politics in his native Georgia. His antagonism with Rostom's successor as ruler of Kartli, Shah Navaz Khan (Vakhtang V) undermined his position and Gorgijanidze was exiled, from 1666 to 1671, to Shushtar, the governor of which, Vakhushti Khan, was a close relative of Shah Navaz Khan's wife Rodam.\n\nA manuscript of Gorgijanidze's untitled chronicle was discovered by the Georgian scholar Platon Ioseliani in 1841 and was conventionally named \"The History of Georgia\" by the 19th-century scholars of Georgia Marie-Félicité Brosset and Teimuraz Bagrationi. It is a voluminous work which seems to have been completed by the author by 1694 or 1696 while living in Isfahan. The chronicle relates the Georgian history from the ascension of Christianity in Georgia in the 4th century down to the late 17th century. Gorgijanidze's account of his contemporary events is of special value. He made extensive use of foreign, primarily Persian, historical works in order to confirm or supplement information from native Georgian sources. The chronicles contain also autobiographic information and is written in vernacular Georgian apparently because of the author's poor knowledge of the contemporary standards of Georgian literary language.\n\nGorgijanidze was also actively involved in the editing, versification and rewriting of the Georgian versions of the \"Shahnameh\" epic. Amongst the several major works Gorgijanidze translated into Georgian, there was the \"Jāmeʿ-e abbāsi\", a book written by Sheikh Baha'i on Shia jurisprudence. He also composed a trilingual Georgian-Arabic-Persian dictionary.\n\n"}
{"id": "6705617", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6705617", "title": "Petru Maior", "text": "Petru Maior\n\nPetru Maior (; 1761 in Marosvásárhely \"(now Târgu Mureș, Romania)\" – 14 February 1821 in Budapest) was a Romanian writer who is considered one of the most influential personalities of the Age of Enlightenment in Transylvania (the \"Transylvanian School\"). Maior was a member of the Greek-Catholic clergy, a historian, philosopher, and linguist.\n\nThe \"Buda Lexicon\", a book published in 1825, included two texts by Petru Maior, \"Orthographia romana sive latino-valachica una cum clavi\" and \"Dialogu pentru inceputul linbei române\", in which he introduced the letters ș for and ț for , which have since been in use in the Romanian alphabet.\n\n"}
{"id": "21146300", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21146300", "title": "Philippe Contamine", "text": "Philippe Contamine\n\nPhilippe Contamine (born 7 May 1932 in Metz) is a French historian of the Middle Ages who specialises in military history and the history of the nobility.\n\nContamine is a past president of the Académie des Inscriptions et Belles-Lettres, the Société de l'histoire de France, and the Societé des Antiquaires de France. He taught at the Université de Nancy, the Université de Paris X at Nanterre and Université de Paris IV (Paris-Sorbonne). He is an officer of the Légion d’Honneur and a fellow of the Royal Historical Society.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "5138501", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5138501", "title": "Raphael Patai", "text": "Raphael Patai\n\nRaphael Patai (Hebrew רפאל פטאי) (November 22, 1910 − July 20, 1996), born Ervin György Patai, was a Hungarian-Jewish ethnographer, historian, Orientalist and anthropologist.\n\nPatai was born in Budapest, Austria-Hungary in 1910 to Edith Ehrenfeld Patai and József Patai. Patai's mother was born in Nagyvárad to German-speaking, Jewish parents who expressed their commitment to Magyar nationalism by sending their daughter to Hungarian-language schools. Both parents spoke Hungarian and German fluently, and educated their children to be perfectly fluent in both Hungarian and German. His father was a prominent literary figure, author of numerous Zionist and other writings, including a biography of Theodor Herzl. József was founder and editor of the Jewish political and cultural journal \"Mult és jövő\", (\"Past and Future\") from 1911 to 1944, a journal that was revived in 1988 by János Köbányai in Budapest. József Patai also wrote an early History of Hungarian Jews, and founded a Zionist organization in Hungary that procured support for the settlement of Jews in the British Mandate of Palestine.\n\nRaphael Patai studied at rabbinical seminaries in and at the University of Budapest and the University of Breslau, from which he received a doctorate in Semitic languages and Oriental history. He moved to Palestine in 1933, where his parents joined him in 1939, after he received the first doctorate awarded by the Hebrew University of Jerusalem, in 1936. He returned briefly to Budapest where he completed his ordination at the Budapest Rabbinical Seminary.\n\nDuring the late 1930s and early 1940s Patai taught at the Hebrew University and served as the secretary of the Haifa Technion. He founded the Palestine Institute of Folklore and Ethnology in 1944, serving as its director of research for four years. He also served as scientific director of a Jewish folklore studies program for the Beit Ha'Am public cultural program in Jerusalem.\n\nIn 1947 Patai went to New York with a fellowship from the Viking Fund for Anthropological Research; he also studied the Jews of Mexico. Patai settled in the United States, becoming a naturalized citizen in 1952. He held visiting professorships at a number of the country's most prestigious colleges, including Columbia, the University of Pennsylvania, New York University, Princeton, and Ohio State. He held full professorships of anthropology at Dropsie College from 1948 to 1957 and at Fairleigh Dickinson University. In 1952 he was asked by the United Nations to direct a research project on Syria, Lebanon and Jordan for the Human Relations Area Files.\n\nPatai's work was wide-ranging but focused primarily on the cultural development of the ancient Hebrews and Israelites, on Jewish history and culture, and on the anthropology of the Middle East generally. He was the author of hundreds of scholarly articles and several dozen books, including three autobiographical volumes.\n\nIn 1936, Patai was the co-recipient (jointly with Moshe Zvi Segal) of the Bialik Prize for Jewish thought.\n\nPatai married Naomi Tolkowsky, whose family had moved to what was then Palestine in the early twentieth century; they had two daughters, Jennifer (born 1942) and Daphne (born 1943).\nHe died in 1996 in Tucson, Arizona at the age of 85.\nLongtime Hebrew University of Jerusalem organic chemistry professor Saul Patai (1918-1998) was his brother.\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "6387453", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6387453", "title": "Reza Davari Ardakani", "text": "Reza Davari Ardakani\n\nReza Davari Ardakani (, born 6 July 1933 in Ardakan) is a prominent Iranian philosopher who was influenced by Martin Heidegger, and a distinguished emeritus professor of philosophy at the University of Tehran. He is also the current president of the prestigious Iranian Academy of Sciences. He is known for his works on criticism of the Western Culture and thought.\nDavari received primary and secondary education in Arkadan, and after leaving school became a teacher in 1951. In 1954, he entered the University of Tehran as an undergraduate, gaining a BA and in 1967 a PhD in Philosophy there. He is currently a professor of philosophy at Tehran University. From 1979 to 1981, he was dean at the faculty of literature and humanities, University of Tehran, and the head of Iranian National Commission for UNESCO from 1979 to 1982. Davari was the Editor-in-Chief of \"Farhang Journal\".\n\nDavari and Abdolkarim Soroush have engaged in a series of philosophical debates in post-revolutionary Iran.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1508088", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1508088", "title": "Slavo-Serbia", "text": "Slavo-Serbia\n\nSlavo-Serbia (Ukrainian: Слов’яносе́рбія; Serbian: Славеносрбија or \"Slavenosrbija\"; archaic Serbian name: Славено-Сербія) was a territory of Imperial Russia between 1753-64. It was located by the right bank of the Donets River between the Bakhmutka (Бахмут) and Luhan (Лугань) rivers. This area today constitutes the territories of present-day Luhansk Oblast and Donetsk Oblast of Ukraine. The administrative centre of Slavo-Serbia was Bakhmut (Bahmut).\n\nBy the decree of the Senate of May 29, 1753, the free lands of this area were offered for settlement to Serbs, Vlachs (Romanians), Bulgarians, Greeks and other Balkan peoples of Orthodox Christian denomination to ensure frontier protection and development of this part of the steppes. \n\nSlavo-Serbia was directly governed by Russia's Governing Senate and College of War. The settlers eventually formed the Bakhmut hussar regiment in 1764. Also in 1764, Slavo-Serbia was transformed into the Donets uyezd of Yekaterinoslav Governorate (now in Dnipropetrovs'ka oblast', Ukraine). Commandants of Slavo-Serbia were Colonels Rajko Preradović and Jovan Šević. These Serbian colonels led their soldiers in various Russian military campaigns; in peacetime they kept the borderlands, along with the Cossacks, free from incursions by other states.\n\nThe province had ethnically diverse population that included Serbs, Vlachs (Romanians), and others. In 1755, the population of Slavo-Serbia numbered 1,513 inhabitants (of both genders). In 1756, in the regiment of Jovan Šević, there were 38% Serbs, 23% Vlachs, and 22% others. In 1763, the population of Slavo-Serbia numbered 3,992 male inhabitants, of whom only 378 were Serbs.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "35150601", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35150601", "title": "Soedjatmoko", "text": "Soedjatmoko\n\nSoedjatmoko (born Soedjatmoko Mangoendiningrat; 10 January 1922 – 21 December 1989), familiarly called Bung Koko, was an Indonesian intellectual and diplomat. Born to a noble father and mother in Sawahlunto, West Sumatra, after finishing his primary education, he went to Batavia (modern day Jakarta) to study medicine; in the city's slums, he saw much poverty, which became an academic interest later in life. After being expelled from medical school by the Japanese in 1943 for his political activities, Soedjatmoko moved to Surakarta and practised medicine with his father. In 1947, after Indonesia proclaimed its independence, Soedjatmoko and two other youths were deployed to Lake Success, New York, to represent Indonesia at the United Nations (UN). They helped secure international recognition of the country's sovereignty.\n\nAfter his work at the UN, Soedjatmoko attempted to study at Harvard's Littauer Center for Public Administration (now the John F. Kennedy School of Government); however, he was forced to resign due to pressure from other work, including serving as Indonesia's first chargé d'affaires in London for three months as well as establishing the political desk at the Embassy of Indonesia in Washington, D.C. By 1952 he had returned to Indonesia, where he became involved in the socialist press and joined the Socialist Party of Indonesia. He was elected as a member of the Constitutional Assembly of Indonesia in 1955, serving until 1959; he married Ratmini Gandasubrata in 1958. However, as President Sukarno's government became more authoritarian Soedjatmoko began to criticise the government. To avoid censorship, he spent two years as a guest lecturer at Cornell University in Ithaca, New York, and another three in self-imposed unemployment in Indonesia.\n\nAfter Sukarno was replaced by Suharto, Soedjatmoko returned to public service. In 1966 he was sent as one of Indonesia's representatives at the UN, and in 1968 he became Indonesia's ambassador to the US; during this time he received several honorary doctoral degrees. He also advised foreign minister Adam Malik. After returning to Indonesia in 1971, Soedjatmoko held a position in several think tanks. After the Malari incident in January 1974, Soedjatmoko was held for interrogation for two and a half weeks and accused of masterminding the event. Although eventually released, he could not leave Indonesia for two and a half years. In 1978 Soedjatmoko received the Ramon Magsaysay Award for International Understanding, and in 1980 he was chosen as rector of the United Nations University in Tokyo. Two years after returning from Japan, Soedjatmoko died of cardiac arrest while teaching in Yogyakarta.\n\nSoedjatmoko was born on 10 January 1922 in Sawahlunto, West Sumatra, with the name Soedjatmoko Mangoendiningrat. He was the eldest son of Saleh Mangoendiningrat, a Javanese physician of noble descent from Madiun, and Isnadikin, a Javanese housewife from Ponorogo; the couple had three other children, as well as two adopted children. Soedjatmoko's younger brother, Nugroho Wisnumurti, went on to work at the United Nations. When he was two years old, he and his family moved to the Netherlands after his father received a five-year scholarship. After returning to Indonesia, Soedjatmoko continued his studies at an elementary school for European called ELS in Manado, North Sulawesi.\n\nSoedjatmoko later attended the Surabaya HBS (secondary school) and graduated in 1940. The school introduced him to Latin and Greek, and one of his teachers introduced him to European art; he later recalled that this introduction had allowed him to see Europeans as more than colonists. He then continued to medical school in Batavia (modern day Jakarta). Upon seeing the slums of Jakarta, he was drawn to the issue of poverty; this later became an academic interest of his. However, during the Japanese occupation, in 1943, he was expelled from the city due to his relationship with Sutan Sjahrir – who had married Soedjatmoko's sister Siti Wahyunah – and participation in protests against the occupation.\n\nAfter his expulsion, Soedjatmoko moved to Surakarta and studied Western history and political literature, which led to an interest in socialism. Some figure that affected him besides Karl Marx were Ortega y Gasset and Jan Romein. While in Surakarta he also worked at his father's hospital. After Indonesia proclaimed its independence, Soedjatmoko was asked to become Deputy Head of the Foreign Press Department in the Ministry of Information. In 1946, at the request of Prime Minister Sjahrir, he and two friends established a Dutch-language weekly, \"Het Inzicht\" (\"Inside\"), as a counter to the Dutch-sponsored \"Het Uίtzicht\" (\"Outlook\"). The next year, they launched a socialist-oriented journal, \"Siasat\" (\"Tactics\"), which was published weekly. During this period Soedjatmoko dropped the name Mangoendiningrat, as it reminded him of the feudal aspects of Indonesian culture.\n\nIn 1947, Sjahrir sent Soedjatmoko to New York as a member of the Indonesian Republic's \"observer\" delegation to the United Nations (UN). The delegation travelled to the United States via the Philippines after a two-month stay in Singapore; while in the Philippines, President Manuel Roxas guaranteed support of the nascent nation's case at the United Nations. Soedjatmoko stayed in Lake Success, New York, the temporary location of the UN, and participated in debates over international recognition of the new country. Towards the end of his stay in New York, Soedjatmoko enrolled at Harvard's Littauer Center; as, at the time, he was still part of the UN delegation, he commuted between New York and Boston for seven months. After being released from the delegation, he spent most of a year at the Center; for a period of three months, however, he was chargé d'affaires – the nation's first – at the Dutch East Indies desk of the Dutch embassy in London, serving in a temporary capacity while the Indonesian embassy was being established.\n\nIn 1951, Soedjatmoko moved to Washington D.C. to establish the political desk at the Indonesian embassy there; he also became Alternate Permanent Representative of Indonesia at the UN. This busy schedule, demanding a commute between three cities, proved to be too much for him and he dropped out of the Littauer Center. In late 1951, he resigned from his positions and went to Europe for nine months, seeking political inspiration. In Yugoslavia, he met Milovan Djilas, who impressed him greatly.\n\nUpon returning to Indonesia, Soedjatmoko once again became an editor of \"Siasat\". In 1952, he was one of the founders of Socialist Party daily \"Pedoman\" (\"Guidance\"); this was followed by a political journal, \"Konfrontasi\" (\"Confrontation\"). He also helped to establish the Pembangunan publishing house, which he directed until 1961. Soedjatmoko joined the Indonesian Socialist Party (, or PSI) in 1955, and was elected as a member of Constitutional Assembly of Indonesia in the 1955 elections until the dissolution of the assembly in 1959. He served with the Indonesian delegation at the Bandung Conference in 1955. Later the same year, he founded the Indonesian Institute of World Affairs and became its Secretary General for four years. Soedjatmoko married Ratmini Gandasubrata in 1958. Together they had three daughters.\n\nTowards the end of the 1950s, Soedjatmoko and President Sukarno, with whom he had had a warm working relationship, had a falling out over the president's increasingly authoritarian policies. In 1960 Soedjatmoko co-founded and headed the Democratic League, which attempted to promote democracy in the country; he also opposed Sukarno's Guided Democracy policy. When the effort failed, Soedjatmoko went to the US and took a position as guest lecturer at Cornell University. When he returned to Indonesia in 1962, he discovered that key members of the PSI had been arrested and the party banned; both \"Siasat\" and \"Pedoman\" were closed. To avoid trouble with the government, Soedjatmoko voluntarily left himself unemployed until 1965, when he became co-editor of \"An Introduction to Indonesian Historiography\".\n\nAfter the failed coup d'état in 1965 and the replacement of Sukarno by Suharto, Soedjatmoko returned to public service. He served as vice-chairman of the Indonesian delegation at the UN in 1966, becoming the delegation's adviser in 1967. Also in 1967, Soedjatmoko became adviser to foreign minister Adam Malik, as well as a member of the International Institute for Strategic Studies, a London-based think tank; the following year he became Indonesian ambassador to the United States, a position which he held until 1971. During his time as ambassador, Soedjatmoko received honorary doctorates from several American universities, including Cedar Crest College in 1969 and Yale in 1970. He also published another book, \"Southeast Asia Today and Tomorrow\" (1969).\n\nSoedjatmoko returned to Indonesia in 1971; upon his return he became Special Adviser on Social and Cultural Affairs to the Chairman of the National Development Planning Agency. That same year, he became a board member of the London-based International Institute for Environment and Development, a position which he held until 1976; he also joined the Club of Rome. In 1972 Soedjatmoko was selected to the board of trustees of the Ford Foundation, in which position he served 12 years; also in 1972 he became a governor of the Asian Institute of Management, a position which he held for two years. The following year he became a governor of the International Development Research Center. In 1974, based on falsified documents, he was accused of planning the Malari incident of January 1974, in which students protested and eventually rioted during a state visit by Prime Minister of Japan Kakuei Tanaka. Held for interrogation for two and a half weeks, Soedjatmoko was not allowed to leave Indonesia for two and a half years for his suspected involvement.\n\nIn 1978 Soedjatmoko received the Ramon Magsaysay Award for International Understanding, often called Asia's Nobel Prize. The citation read, in part: Encouraging both Asians and outsiders to look more carefully at the village folkways they would modernize, [Sodjatmoko] is fostering awareness of the human dimension essential to all development. [...] [H]is writings have added consequentially to the body of international thinking on what can be done to meet one of the greatest challenges of our time; how to make life more decent and satisfying for the poorest 40 percent in Southeastern and southern Asia. In response, Soedjatmoko said he felt \"humbled, because of [his] awareness that whatever small contribution [he] may have made is dwarfed by the magnitude of the problem of persistent poverty and human suffering in Asia, and by the realization of how much still remains to be done.\"\n\nIn 1980 Soedjatmoko moved to Tokyo, Japan. In September of that year he began service as the rector of the United Nations University, replacing James M. Hester; he remained in that position until 1987. In Japan he published two further books, \"The Primacy of Freedom in Development\" and \"Development and Freedom\". He received the Asia Society Award in 1985, and the Universities Field Staff International Award for Distinguished Service to the Advancement of International Understanding the following year. Soedjatmoko died of cardiac arrest on 21 December 1989 when he was lecturing at Muhammadiyah University of Yogyakarta.\n\n"}
{"id": "56181984", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56181984", "title": "Stoke Mill, Guildford", "text": "Stoke Mill, Guildford\n\nStoke Mill is a 19th century corn mill on the River Wey that has been converted into offices. It is situated off the Woking Road just north of Guildford town centre. It forms the centrepiece of a small group of buildings that includes the Grade II listed Stoke Mill House.\n\nDomesday lists a mill at \"Stochae\" on the King's land. About 1635, Sir Richard Weston built the first paper mill in Surrey here. By 1740 it was also used for grinding corn. This was eventually replaced by a single story mill, with three pairs of stones, after the original was destroyed by fire in 1863. Papermaking ceased in 1869. In 1879 a modern five-story brick built corn mill was constructed alongside and the older mill became a store. In 1894 the new mill was converted to metal rollers to grind the corn and a water turbine had replaced the waterwheel by 1915. The mill ceased working in 1957. After a period of commercial use as a store and boatyard, the building was converted to offices in 1989 and is now occupied by the Surrey Advertiser Group.\n\n"}
{"id": "58556016", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58556016", "title": "Takase Site", "text": "Takase Site\n\nThe area south Takase Shrine, a Shinto shrine in the city of Nanto was known for many years as a location where shards of Sue pottery and Haji pottery could be found. During field maintenance work in 1970, the foundations of a building were discovered. In subsequent excavations in 1972, the foundations of three buildings were discovered, and were determined to be the administrative buildings associated with a \"shōen\" landed estate from the early Heian period. Historical records indicate that the great temple of Tōdai-ji in Nara had such an estate in Etchū Province during this period.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "44968395", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44968395", "title": "Tamás Meszerics", "text": "Tamás Meszerics\n\nTamás Meszerics (; born 4 December 1964) is a Hungarian politician and Member of the European Parliament (MEP) from Hungary. He was elected as a member of the Politics Can Be Different, part of the European Green Party in 2014. He joined The Greens–European Free Alliance group.\n\nMeszerics studied at the Faculty of Arts at Loránd Eötvös University in Budapest where he earned his Master of Arts in history and English Studies in 1990. After graduation he was a fellow at the Institute for International Studies at the University of Leeds and at the George Mason University. Beginning with 1992 he became a program coordinator, in 1995 a research assistant at the Political Science Department of the Central European University. Meszerics earned his PhD degree in contemporary history at his alma mater about Anglo-American foreign policy in 2000.\n\nMeszerics was appointed assistant professor in 2002. In 2011 he was a visiting scholar at the Minda de Gunzburg Center for European Studies of the Harvard University. His fields of interest are theories of democracy, historical and theoretical studies of intelligence, bureaucracy, bureaucratic politics and their theories, the history of modern Central European countries and behavioral game theory.\n\nMeszerics joined the Alliance of Free Democrats in the wake of the end of communism in Hungary but did not hold any offices. He left the party in 1995 but returned to politics in 2009 when he was a founding member of the new green party Politics Can Be Different (LMP). Between 2009 and 2010 he was secretary of the party board and was later co-chair of the party's political council. After the successful 2010 general election where the party managed to get parliamentary representation he worked as a foreign policy expert for the parliamentary group. In 2013 he returned to the party board as a member. He held his office until the 2014 European Parliament election where he headed the party list.\n\nAs the party surpassed the threshold of 5%, Meszerics was elected as a Member of the European Parliament where he automatically joined The Greens–European Free Alliance group. The group elected him as co-coordinator of foreign policy. He is a member of the Committee on Foreign Affairs and substitute member of the Committee on Employment and Social Affairs.\n\nOn 22 October 2018, Tamás Meszerics announced, he quits from the LMP party.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "24397942", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24397942", "title": "The Arctic Home in the Vedas", "text": "The Arctic Home in the Vedas\n\nThe Arctic Home in the Vedas is a book on the origin of Aryanic People by Bal Gangadhar Tilak, a mathematician turned astronomer, historian, journalist, philosopher and political leader of India. It propounded the idea that the North Pole was the original home of Aryans during the pre-glacial period which they had to leave due to the ice deluge around 8000 B.C. and had to migrate to the Northern parts of Europe and Asia in search of lands for new settlements. In support to his theory, Tilak presented certain Vedic hymns, Avestic passages, Vedic chronology and Vedic calendars with interpretations of the contents in detail.\n\nThe book was written at the end of 1898, but was first published in March 1903 in Pune.\n\nMan was believed to be post-glacial, and the theory of an Asiatic origin of the Aryan peoples prevailed. The age of the oldest Vedic period, however, was carried back to 4500 BC by scholars including the author himself after scientific astronomical research in correlation with the evidence found in the Vedic hymns.\n\nTilak cites a book by William F. Warren, the first President of Boston University, \"Paradise Found or the Cradle of the Human Race at the North Pole\", as having anticipated his ideas to some extent. Warren dedicated his book to Max Müller, with whom Tilak had shared ideas before the book was completed.\n\nTilak held the view that further study of Vedic hymns and Avestan passages might reveal the long vista of primitive Aryan antiquity.\n\n\n\nThe book has about 500 pages, containing a Preface by the Author and thirteen chapters.\n\n1) Vedic References\n\n2) Avestic References\n\n\"The Arctic Home in the Vedas\" has been cited in the works of Julius Evola, Savitri Devi, Rene Guenon, Jean Haudry and John G. Bennett. M.S. Golwalkar, in his 1939 publication \"We or Our Nationhood Defined\", famously stated that \"Undoubtedly [...] we — Hindus — have been in undisputed and undisturbed possession of this land for over eight or even ten thousand years before the land was invaded by any foreign race.\" Golwalkar was inspired by Tilak's \"The Arctic Home in the Vedas. Gowalkar took over the idea of 10,000 years, arguing that the North Pole at that time was located in India.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "37442017", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37442017", "title": "The Indispensable Enemy", "text": "The Indispensable Enemy\n\nThe Indispensable Enemy: Labor and the Anti-Chinese Movement in California () is a labor and California history book by Alexander Saxton which became one of the founding texts of Asian American studies. The book has been described as \"represent[ing] the best example of writing in the historical materialist tradition within Asian American Studies\" and \"[t]he model of historical writing\" that discusses both the \"history of workers and racism\", both interracial \"unity \"but also the limits of that unity.\"\"\n\n"}
{"id": "34998929", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34998929", "title": "The Skin House", "text": "The Skin House\n\nThe Skin House is a cosmetics company founded in 1979. It is located at Seoul, South Korea.\n\nThe Skin House cosmetics company was founded in Seoul, South Korea in 1979. In April 2011, Han Sunhwa of Secret was chosen as the new model for The Skin House. A representative of the brand commented, “The Skin House uses natural and organic ingredients and is one of the top brands in the nation for those with sensitive skin. With Secret’s Sunhwa at our forefront, we’ll be making sure that everyone can have healthy, youthful skin with our natural products.” \n\n"}
{"id": "1383698", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1383698", "title": "The Templar Revelation", "text": "The Templar Revelation\n\nThe Templar Revelation: Secret Guardians of the True Identity of Christ is a book written by Lynn Picknett and Clive Prince and published in 1997 by Transworld Publishers Ltd in Great Britain, Australia and New Zealand. It proposes a fringe hypothesis regarding the relationship between Jesus, John the Baptist and Mary Magdalene, and states that their true story has been suppressed by the Roman Catholic Church through, among other tactics, the conscious selection of the texts that make up the canonical New Testament, their campaigns against heresy, and their propaganda against non-Christians.\n\nWhile researching the life and works of Leonardo da Vinci, including \"his part in faking the Turin Shroud\" which the authors document in their book \"Turin Shroud— In Whose Image?\", they discover a number of signs of unorthodox Christian thinking in the imagery used to portray some of the central characters in the New Testament, especially John the Baptist. Some paintings examined for their unusual choice of imagery include the two versions of \"Madonna of the Rocks\" and \"The Last Supper\".\n\nIn the latter painting, they propose that the person in the painting seated, from a viewer’s point of view, to the left of Jesus is Mary Magdalene rather than John the Apostle, as most art historians identify that person. Furthermore, they point out that their body angles form the letter M, a reference to the Magdalene, and that she and Jesus are dressed in similar but oppositely colored clothes, a negative image of each other. They also mention a number of other signs: a mystery knife pointed at one of the characters, that Leonardo da Vinci himself is in the painting with his face pointing away from Jesus, and that Jesus is confronted by an admonishing hand to his right making “the John gesture,” an index finger pointing up.\n\nIn trying to understand the significance of these unusual images they conducted research into what they term a “thread of heresy” that reaches back over 2000 years. They claim to find evidence for this occult tradition in such assorted subjects as The Knights Templar, the Cathars, Gnosticism, the Holy Grail, and the legends connected with southern France, and in particular the town of Rennes-le-Château. They utilise the historical and biblical scholarship of such people as Morton Smith, Hugh J. Schonfield, G.R.S. Mead, Frances A. Yates, and Geza Vermes on which to build their claims.\n\nAmong their conclusions are the following:\n\nThe authors offer, but not claim, that perhaps Leonardo da Vinci was sending veiled messages through his art, which could be understood only by others who were open to their meaning. And while on the surface these paintings seem to be simple biblical depictions, they represent in fact his belief in the superiority of John the Baptist over Jesus.\n\nSeven years after this book was published, some of the ideas presented in this and other similar books (e.g. The Last Templar), have become central to the best-selling novel \"The Da Vinci Code\" by Dan Brown. It may seem that \"The Templar Revelation\" even provided Brown with the title of his novel: one chapter is called \"The Secret Code of Leonardo Da Vinci\". Brown's reliance on \"The Templar Revelation\" is also confirmed by the fact that he imports certain factual errors from this book (see Église Saint-Sulpice, Paris for an example).\n\n"}
{"id": "59146598", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=59146598", "title": "Timeline of Bauer Radio", "text": "Timeline of Bauer Radio\n\nA timeline of notable events relating to Bauer Radio, a British media company founded in 2007.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "302017", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=302017", "title": "Timeline of audio formats", "text": "Timeline of audio formats\n\nAn audio format is a medium for sound recording and reproduction. The term is applied to both the physical recording media and the recording formats of the audio content—in computer science it is often limited to the audio file format, but its wider use usually refers to the physical method used to store the data.\n\nMusic is recorded and distributed using a variety of audio formats, some of which store additional information.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "10762777", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10762777", "title": "Timeline of the Virginia Tech shooting", "text": "Timeline of the Virginia Tech shooting\n\nThis timeline of events from the Virginia Tech shooting lists times in Eastern Daylight Time (UTC-4).\n\nThe official timeline was compiled by TriData Corp, a division of defense contractor System Planning Corp., for use by the eight-member panel appointed by Virginia Governor Timothy M. Kaine.\n\n\nMonday, January 19\n\nFall\n\nFall poetry class\n\nRemoved from poetry class\n\nFall writing class\n\nSunday, November 27\n\nMonday, December 12\n\nTuesday, December 13\n\nWednesday, December 14\n\nFall\n\nFriday, February 2\n\nFriday, February 9\n\nMarch\n\nMonday, March 12\n\nTuesday, March 13\n\nThursday, March 22\n\nFriday, March 23\n\nLate March, (exact date uncertain)\n\nSaturday, March 31 (April 7, 8 and 13)\n\n\n\nSunday, April 8\n\nFriday, April 13\n\n\nSaturday, April 14\nSunday, April 15\n\nMonday, April 16\n\nTuesday, April 17\n\n\nWednesday, April 18\n\nThursday, April 19\n\nFriday, April 20\n\nMonday, April 23\n\nJune 12, 2007\n\nAugust 30, 2007\n"}
{"id": "22454325", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22454325", "title": "Trond Bergh", "text": "Trond Bergh\n\nTrond Bergh (born 16 September 1946) is a Norwegian economic historian, and researcher at the Department of Innovation and Economic Organisation of the BI Norwegian Business School.\n\nBergh was born in Tvedestrand, and took the cand.philol. degree at the University of Oslo in 1973. \n\nBergh was the director of the Labour Movement Archive and Library from 1989 to 1999, and was then employed at the Centre for Business History and, later at the Department of Innovation and Economic Organisation of BI Norwegian Business School.\n\nWith the latter work Bergh became involved in a legal case. Former secretary of the Standing Committee on Finance and Economic Affairs Haakon Bingen sued Bergh and Eriksen as well as the publishing house Cappelen Akademiske Forlag, because the second volume of \"Den hemmelige krigen\" contained information that portrayed Bingen as a close friend of communist Peder Furubotn. In late 1999 the Supreme Court of Norway found that this was not true, and circulation of the book was forbidden, until the reference to Bingen had been amended. Bingen was also entitled to of costs.\n\nBergh's books on Norwegian economic history include \"Vekst og Velstand\" (1977), \"Norge fra u-land til i-land\" (1983) and \"Foredlet virke: Historien om Borregaard 1889–1989\" (with Even Lange, 1989). He also penned \"Storhetstid 1945–1965\", released 1987 as volume five of \"Arbeiderbevegelsens historie i Norge\", and in 1998 he released the two-volume history on surveillance in Norway, \"Den hemmelige krigen: overvåking i Norge 1914–1997\" about surveillance together with Knut Einar Eriksen.\n\nBergh has also written volume I of the two-volume series from 2004 on the railway history of Norway, \"Jernbanen i Norge 1854–2004\", the first volume covering the period from 1854 to 1940.\n"}
{"id": "372753", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=372753", "title": "Ussher chronology", "text": "Ussher chronology\n\nThe Ussher chronology is a 17th-century chronology of the history of the world formulated from a literal reading of the Old Testament by James Ussher, the Archbishop of Armagh and Primate of All Ireland. The chronology is sometimes associated with young Earth creationism, which holds that the Universe was created only a few millennia ago by God as described in the first two chapters of the biblical book of Genesis. Ussher fell into disrepute in the 19th century.\n\nPublished in 1650, the full title of Ussher's work in Latin is \"Annales Veteris Testamenti, a prima mundi origine deducti, una cum rerum Asiaticarum et Aegyptiacarum chronico, a temporis historici principio usque ad Maccabaicorum initia producto\" (\"Annals of the Old Testament, deduced from the first origins of the world, the chronicle of Asiatic and Egyptian matters together produced from the beginning of historical time up to the beginnings of Maccabees\").\n\nUssher's work was his contribution to the long-running theological debate on the age of the Earth. This was a major concern of many Christian scholars over the centuries.\n\nThe chronology is sometimes called the UssherLightfoot chronology because John Lightfoot published a similar chronology in 1642–1644. This, however, is a misnomer, as the chronology is based on Ussher's work alone and not that of Lightfoot. Ussher deduced that the first day of creation fell upon, October 23, 4004 BC, in the proleptic Julian calendar, near the autumnal equinox. Lightfoot similarly deduced that Creation began at nightfall near the autumnal equinox, but in the year 3929 BC.\n\nUssher's proposed date of 4004 BC differed little from other Biblically-based estimates, such as those of Jose ben Halafta (3761 BC), Bede (3952 BC), Ussher's near-contemporary Scaliger (3949 BC), Johannes Kepler (3992 BC) or Sir Isaac Newton (c. 4000 BC). Ussher was influenced by the same account as the apocryphal Book of Jasher, dating the worldwide flood to 2349 BC and the birth of Terah in 2127 BC. The date of 4000 BC as the creation of Adam was at least partially influenced by the widely held belief that the Earth was approximately 5600 years old (2000 to Abraham, 2000 from Abraham to the birth of Christ, and 1600 years from Christ to Ussher), corresponding to the six days of Creation, on the grounds that \"one day is with the Lord as a thousand years, and a thousand years as one day\" (). This tradition was believed to indicate that Jesus would return in 2000 AD, more than six thousand years after 4004 BC. Modern proponents of this interpretation hold that the creation date 4004 BC could be inaccurate.\n\nThe chronologies of Ussher and other biblical scholars corresponded so closely because they used much the same methodology to calculate key events recorded in the Bible. Establishing the chronologies is complicated by the fact that the Bible was compiled by different authors over several centuries with lengthy chronological gaps, making it difficult to do a simple totaling of Biblical ages and dates. In his article on Ussher's calendar, James Barr has identified three distinct periods that Ussher and others had to tackle:\n\n\nAfter reckoning the years from creation to the last kings of Judah, Ussher used to establish the length of time from the creation to the accession of Babylonian king Amel-Marduk (also known as Evil-Merodach). He then used information from Babylonian, Greek, and Roman sources to fix the date of Amel-Marduk's enthronment at 562 BC (after Nebuchadnezzar's death), from which he was able to deduce a creation in 4004 BC.\n\nIn fixing the date of Jesus' birth, Ussher took account of an error perpetrated by Dionysius Exiguus, the founder of the Anno Domini numbering system. Ussher chose 5 BC as Christ's birth year because Josephus indicated that the death of Herod the Great occurred in 4 BC. Thus, for the Gospel of Matthew to be correct, Jesus could not have been born after that date.\n\nThe season in which Creation occurred was the subject of considerable theological debate in Ussher's time. Many scholars proposed it had taken place in the spring, the start of the Babylonian, Chaldean and other cultures' chronologies. Others, including Ussher, thought it more likely that it had occurred in the autumn, largely because that season marked the beginning of the Jewish year.\n\nUssher further narrowed down the date by using the Jewish calendar to establish the \"first day\" of creation as falling on a Sunday near the autumnal equinox. The day of the week was a backward calculation from the six days of creation with God resting on the seventh, which in the Jewish calendar is Saturday—hence, Creation began on a Sunday. The astronomical tables that Ussher probably used were Kepler's \"Tabulae Rudolphinae\" (\"Rudolphine Tables\", 1627). Using them, he would have concluded that the equinox occurred on Tuesday, October 25, only one day earlier than the traditional day of its creation, on the fourth day of Creation week, Wednesday, along with the Sun, Moon, and stars . Modern equations place the autumnal equinox of 4004 BC on Sunday, October 23 (by the Julian calendar).\n\nUssher's understanding of creation placed the \"first day\" referred to in on October 23, but with a \"pre-creation\" event, which he identified as the \"beginning of time\" occurring the previous night. Ussher referred to his dating of creation on the first page of \"Annales\" in Latin and on the first page of its English translation \"Annals of the World\" (1658). In the following extract from the English translation, the phrase \"in the year of the Julian Calendar\" refers to the Julian Period, of which year 1 is 4713 BC, and therefore year 710 is 4004 BC.\nIn the beginning God created the heaven and the earth. Ge. 1:1 This beginning of time, according to our chronology, happened at the start of the evening preceding the 23rd day of October in the year of the Julian Calendar, 710.\nUssher provides a slightly different time in his \"Epistle to the Reader\" in his Latin and English works: \"I deduce that the time from the creation until midnight, January 1, 1 AD was 4003 years, seventy days and six hours.\" Six hours before midnight would be 6 pm.\n\nBy the middle of the 19th century, Ussher's chronology came under increasing attack from supporters of uniformitarianism, who argued that Ussher's \"young Earth\" was incompatible with the increasingly accepted view of an Earth much more ancient than Ussher's. It became generally accepted that the Earth was tens, perhaps even hundreds of millions of years old. Ussher fell into disrepute among theologians as well; in 1890, Princeton professor William Henry Green wrote a highly influential article in \"Bibliotheca Sacra\" entitled \"Primeval Chronology\" in which he strongly criticised Ussher. He concluded:\nWe conclude that the Scriptures furnish no data for a chronological computation prior to the life of Abraham; and that the Mosaic records do not fix and were not intended to fix the precise date either of the Flood or of the creation of the world.\nThe similarly conservative theologian B. B. Warfield reached the same conclusion in \"On The Antiquity and Unity of the Human Race\", commenting that \"it is precarious in the highest degree to draw chronological inferences from genealogical tables\".\n\nNevertheless, Professor James Barr (then Oriel Professor of the interpretation of the Holy Scripture, Oxford University) wrote in 1984:\n\n…probably, so far as I know, there is no professor of Hebrew or Old Testament at any world-class university who does not believe that the writer(s) of Genesis 1–11 intended to convey to their readers the ideas that… the figures contained in the Genesis genealogies provided by simple addition a chronology from the beginning of the world up to later stages in the biblical story…\n\nArchbishop Ussher's chronology has in recent years been subject to artistic criticism, including in the play \"Inherit the Wind\" (based on the Scopes Monkey Trial) and the fantasy novel \"Good Omens\" which alleges that \"he is off by a quarter of an hour\". A different viewpoint comes from Stephen Jay Gould, who, while totally disagreeing with Ussher's chronology, nevertheless wrote:\nI shall be defending Ussher's chronology as an honorable effort for its time and arguing that our usual ridicule only records a lamentable small-mindedness based on mistaken use of present criteria to judge a distant and different past\n\nUssher represented the best of scholarship in his time. He was part of a substantial research tradition, a large community of intellectuals working toward a common goal under an accepted methodology…\n\n"}
