{"id": "3828632", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3828632", "title": "Africa Fighting Malaria", "text": "Africa Fighting Malaria\n\nAfrica Fighting Malaria (AFM) is an NGO based in Washington D.C., United States and South Africa which states it \"seeks to educate people about the scourge of Malaria and the political economy of malaria control\". The organization generally \"promotes market based solutions and economic freedom as the best ways to ensure improved welfare and longer life expectancy in poor countries\", according to their financial statement. Founded in 2000 during the Stockholm Negotiations on Persistent Organic Pollutants, AFM's original focus was the promotion of a public health exemption for the insecticide DDT for malaria control. According to their current website, their mission is to \"make malaria control more transparent, responsive and effective by holding public institutions accountable for funding and implementing effective, integrated and country-driven malaria control policies.\"\n\nAccording to IRS filings, the organization spends money entirely on executive compensation, with no program expenses of any kind. It has been described as a front group established to discredit environmentalists. In documents obtained during state litigation against tobacco companies, founder Roger Bate described the organization's purpose as part of a larger strategy to portray first-world environmentalists as unconcerned with Black Africans.\n\n"}
{"id": "2499028", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2499028", "title": "Alcohol Justice", "text": "Alcohol Justice\n\nAlcohol Justice is a San Rafael, California-based non-profit advocacy, research and policy organization describing itself as \"the industry watchdog.\" The Marin Institute was renamed and re-branded as Alcohol Justice in 2011; it was originally named The Marin Institute for the Prevention of Alcohol and Other Drug Problems.\n\nIn 2006, Alcohol Justice shifted its focus to the practices of alcohol corporations who produce, distribute, retail and advertise alcoholic beverages. Until 2006, Alcohol Justice focused strictly on alcohol harms and environmental prevention strategies. These strategies included reducing the hours during which time alcohol can be sold, increasing the size of warning labels on alcoholic beverage containers, requiring warnings on all alcohol advertisements, restricting the content and placement of alcohol ads, and prohibiting alcohol sponsorship of athletic events.\n\nAlcohol Justice was established in 1987 as one of three major projects funded by the Leonard and Beryl H. Buck Trust at the same time the Marin Community Foundation was formed. The Marin Institute reported in 2006 that \"countering the alcohol industry has always been a high priority for the Marin Institute, but we now want to make it the central focus of our efforts. That means we'll put 100% of our energy into stopping the alcohol industry from harming public health.\"\nIn July 2011, the Marin Institute changed its name to Alcohol Justice to better align the organization's name with the national reach of its network.\n\nAlcohol Justice, although based in San Rafael, California, plays a research and advocacy role in other cities and counties of California, such as Los Angeles and San Francisco, and has led numerous campaigns for legislation and regulatory reform in Sacramento, California. Nonetheless, it is a national organization that has conducted national and international research projects, conducted hundreds of trainings of youth, community leaders and public health advocates throughout the United States, and participated in international activities as well in Canada, Europe, Africa and Thailand.\n\nThe Marin Institute participated in a flurry of alcohol tax increase campaigns in the early 1990s, which resulted in small increases in beer excise taxes in California at the U.S. federal level in 1991 and 1992. From December 2006 to November 2010, The Marin Institute convened and organized a California coalition to promote proposals for nickel or dime a drink excise taxes or mitigation fees, including AB 1019 (Assm. Jim Beall, Dem-Santa Clara) supported in a testimonial video by John O. Whitaker, Jr.\n\nThe Charge for Harm campaign supported various bills in Sacramento and the San Francisco \"Alcohol Cost Recovery Fee\" ultimately vetoed by PlumpJack wine-distributorship owning Mayor Gavin Newsom in September 2010. (More info at San Francisco Alcohol Cost Recovery database.)\n\nUltimately the California campaign ground to a halt in November 2010 with the passage of Proposition 26 with 51.4% of the vote, supported by the Wine Institute, the California Chamber of Commerce, Chevron, and collectively oil, tobacco, and alcohol corporations. Proposition 26 now requires in California a 2/3 vote of both legislative houses to pass impact or mitigation fees to charge industries for the harm caused by production or consumption, and requires a 2/3 vote of the electorate to pass such fees at the municipal or county level.\n\nAlcohol Justice argues that alcopops should be regulated because they appeal to youth, who might not like other alcoholic beverages. When caffeinated alcoholic beverages, commonly containing 12% ABV and packaged in 24-oz cans, went off the market, the manufacturers of these beverages reformulated the beverages so as to be without caffeine. Alcohol Justice especially argues against the reformulated products partly due to the fact that the alcohol content has not changed. Alcohol Justice is currently lobbying for legislation to limit the size and alcohol concentration of alcopops.\n\n"}
{"id": "35818176", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35818176", "title": "Ally Gorman", "text": "Ally Gorman\n\nAlly Gorman (also Edward James) is a fictional character from the Channel 4 soap opera \"Hollyoaks\", played by Daniel O'Connor. The actor's casting was announced in December 2011. O'Connor originally auditioned for a different role, before being asked to audition for the part of Ally. O'Connor was given the part and began filming his scenes three days later. \"Hollyoaks\" series producer, Emma Smithwick, said that O'Connor \"nailed\" his audition. O'Connor signed up for an initial twelve episode stint, but his contract was extended and he became a regular cast member. The actor commutes from London to Liverpool for filming. O'Connor made his debut screen appearance as Ally during the episode broadcast on 31 January 2012. O'Connor departed \"Hollyoaks\" on 27 November 2012.\n\nBefore his arrival on screen, O'Connor revealed that Ally has a \"dark past\" that would be \"uncovered eventually in true soap style\". Ally is Australian and a military medic. O'Connor described his character as a \"nice, loveable guy\" who is \"very friendly and kind\". Smithwick said Ally is \"contradictory\" and \"crosses a divide\". She called Ally sensitive and described him as a \"real guy's guy\". A writer for the official \"Hollyoaks\" website described Ally as a \"Hot Aussie\" In June 2012, it was revealed that Ally would lose his \"strait-laced good boy\" reputation.\n\nAlly is introduced as the new lodger of Jacqui McQueen (Claire Cooper) and Rhys Ashworth (Andrew Moss). Ally's storylines have mainly focused on his relationship with Amy Barnes (Ashley Slanina-Davies). It is later revealed that Ally has a \"mystery connection\" to newcomer, Walker (Neil Newbon). Lynsey Nolan (Karen Hassan) discovers this and decides to investigate their past history. Lynsey is later murdered in a whodunit storyline, with Ally becoming a suspect in her death. Sarah Ellis of \"Inside Soap\" did not agree with a viewers criticism of O'Connor's acting and opined that he is doing a \"stellar job\".\n\nOn 11 December 2011, Jonathon Moran and Elle Halliwell of \"The Daily Telegraph\" reported that O'Connor had joined the cast of \"Hollyoaks\" as Ally. O'Connor was previously best known for playing Ned Parker in Australian soap opera, \"Neighbours\". O'Connor originally auditioned for a different role twice, before being asked to audition for the part of Ally. O'Connor was given the part and began filming his scenes three days later. O'Connor said of his casting: \"I'm really excited about joining \"Hollyoaks\", especially with its recent success. [...] I'm really looking forward to working with some of the show's most popular characters and talented actors.\" \"Hollyoaks\" series producer, Emma Smithwick, told Sarah Ellis of \"Inside Soap\" that she was familiar with O'Connor from his work on \"Neighbours\". Smithwick said that when O'Connor auditioned for the role he \"nailed it\" and admitted that the actor's good looks were also appealing. O'Connor signed up for an initial twelve episode stint, but his contract was extended and he became a regular cast member. O'Connor commutes from London to Liverpool, where \"Hollyoaks\" is filmed, for the role. O'Connor made his first screen appearance as Ally on 31 January 2012. In April 2012, O'Connor revealed that he would remain on the show \"at least until the end of [2012]\". The character was originally named \"Ally Grogan\", which was later changed to \"Ally Gorman\". On 20 October 2012 the \"Daily Mail\" reported that O'Connor had left the serial and had already filmed his final scenes.\n\nAlly is Australian and a military medic, who has recently returned from service in Afghanistan. O'Connor revealed that Ally has a \"dark past\" that would be \"uncovered eventually in true soap style\". When asked to describe his character in an interview with Daniel Kilkelly of Digital Spy, O'Connor stated \"He's a nice, loveable guy - very friendly and kind.\" The official \"Hollyoaks\" website described Ally as a \"Hot Aussie\". Smithwick said she liked Ally because he is \"contradictory\" and \"crosses a divide\", calling him \"sensitive\". Smithwick described Ally as a \"real guy's guy\". Ally arrives in the village as a lodger for Jacqui McQueen (Claire Cooper) and Rhys Ashworth (Andrew Moss). Both Jacqui and Rhys like Ally. Smithwick revealed that Ally would befriend Rhys and they would become \"buddies\". O'Connor told Kilkelly that there is a \"good bond\" between Ally and Rhys. The actor revealed that Ally and Rhys \"seem to get on really well\". It initially appears that the living arrangements are \"quite rosy and like a perfect match\". However, as Ally stays longer he questions whether he was right to move in with Jacqui and Rhys as they are continuously arguing. O'Connor noted the similarities between Ally and Ned Parker, the character he portrayed in Australian soap opera, \"Neighbours\". He told Kilkelly \"At first, it felt like I was playing the same character that I played on \"Neighbours\", but that could just be a stereotypical Australian thing - that we all seem to be laid-back, genuine people!\"\n\nO'Connor told a writer from \"All About Soap\" that there is \"definitely potential\" for a romance to develop between Ally and another character. O'Connor was not permitted to reveal the character's identity. Ste Hay (Kieron Richardson) and Amy Barnes (Ashley Slanina-Davies) \"take an instant fancy\" to Ally, who is not aware of their interest in him. O'Connor explained \"The whole thing is pretty innocent to start off with, but it quickly gets more complicated when Ste and Amy make it their mission to find out whether Ally is gay or straight.\" On-screen there is mystery surrounding Ally's sexuality and Ste and Amy are \"both being ultra nice and saying suggestive things to him\". O'Connor stated that he knows Ally's sexuality, but \"Hollyoaks\" producers told him to keep it a secret. Richardson revealed that he was \"very heavily involved\" in Ally's introduction to the show. O'Connor told Kilkelly that Ally would become attracted to either Ste or Amy. Ally is revealed to be heterosexual, and he asks Amy out on a date before he returns to the army. In April 2012, Susan Hill of the \"Daily Star\" reported that Ally would begin a relationship with Amy. O'Connor told a writer from \"Soaplife\" \"They had a couple of dates and they're now in the thick of a relationship.\" The actor added that Ally is \"besotted\" with Amy.\n\nAlly is \"not bothered\" that Amy and Ste have two children, Leah Barnes (Elá-May Melek Demircan) and Lucas Hay (Reuben Thwaites), together as he \"likes kids\". O'Connor told a writer from \"Soaplife\" that Ste does not want Ally to be a father figure to the Leah and Lucas. O'Connor said \"I think Ste's feeling protective.\" Ste interrupts Ally and Amy whilst they are on a date and asks Ally what his intentions towards Amy are. Of this, O'Connor commented \"Ally's a bit frustrated, but he understands why Ste feels he needs to look after Amy.\" Ally tells Ste he wants a \"committed relationship\" with Amy and that he \"fell for her\" the first time they met.\n\nIn May 2012, Amy tells Ally that their relationship is progressing too fast, leaving him \"heartbroken\". Amy then has a one-night stand with Dodger (Danny Mac). Ally returns to see Amy the next day and hopes they can reconcile. He is unaware of her fling with Dodger, who hides on Ally's arrival. Amy refuses to reconcile to get Ally out of the flat. Amy goes on a road trip to forget about her problems, but is unaware that Dodger's cousin, Dennis Savage (Joe Tracini), has invited both Dodger and Ally on the trip. A \"Hollyoaks\" insider explained \"Dennis has no idea that Dodger has slept with Amy when he decides to help Ally get back with her. He’s really pleased with his match-making skills but as you can imagine Amy is mortified.\" They revealed that Amy feels \"terrible\" for the one-night stand, which Ally would discover. The insider added that \"Ally feels like a total idiot\" and attacks Dodger.\n\nWhen the character of Ally was announced, it was revealed that he has a \"dark past\" that would be \"uncovered eventually in true soap style\". In January 2012, O'Connor admitted that he did not know Ally's secret and that the storyline was still being developed. O'Connor said \"I've been told that [the secret is] a good one\" and added that it would probably shock people. The actor opined that the secret would cause conflict between Ally and other character's. O'Connor later commented that the secret would produce a \"very big, meaty storyline\". In June 2012, it was reported that Lynsey Nolan (Karen Hassan) would discover that there may be a \"mystery connection\" between Ally and newcomer, Walker (Neil Newbon). Lynsey sees Walker threatening Ally to keep quiet about their past and decides to investigate them. O'Connor told Matthew Wright of \"The Wright Stuff\" that Ally would lose his \"strait-laced good boy\" reputation.\n\nDuring the episode broadcast on 29 June 2012, Lynsey is found dead by Brendan Brady (Emmett J. Scanlan). The death sparked a whodunnit storyline, with Ally in the frame for Lynsey's murder. Digital Spy explained Ally's motives stating, \"Additionally, [Ally] and bad boy [Walker] had both found themselves struggling to keep their secrets from an inquisitive Lynsey in recent episodes - providing them with a reason to target her.\" A promotional image featuring Ally was later released by \"Hollyoaks\" which confirmed Ally as an official suspect in the mystery.\n\nIn October 2012, Digital Spy's Kilkelly reported that \"Hollyoaks\" had planned scenes involving Ally and Lacey Kane (Georgia Bourke) growing close. O'Connor told a writer from \"Inside Soap\" that Ally feels \"put out\" by Martha's return. She is \"out to expose Ally\" at a time he was beginning to become liked by the Kanes. Lacey develops a crush on Ally after she steals Ash's credit card and he covers for her. The duo fall to the ground and stare at each other during a game of football. The actor explained that \"there's a split second where there is something\" between them. Ally gains control over the Kane household because of his encounter with Lacey. O'Connor concluded that Ally has a \"hero complex\" and \"goes about everything the wrong way\".\n\nJacqui McQueen and Rhys Ashworth advertise for a lodger, and Ally replies to the advertisement. Jacqui and Rhys interview Ally and subsequently allow him to move in. Ally meets his neighbours, Ste Hay and Amy Barnes, and invites them over for a dinner party. Ally is unimpressed when Jacqui and Amy become drunk and ruin the party. Ally considers moving out when Jacqui and Rhys continuously argue. Ally kisses Mercedes McQueen (Jennifer Metcalfe) and asks her out on a date, but she declines. Ally goes on the date with Mercedes' sister, Michaela McQueen (Hollie-Jay Bowes), instead. Ally becomes annoyed when Michaela and Amy argue as they are both attracted to him. Ally tells Michaela and Amy that he does not want to date either of them. Jacqui and Rhys' new lodger, Phoebe Jackson (Mandip Gill), steals Ally's laptop and Jacqui refuses to report Phoebe to the police. Jacqui and Rhys pay Ally the amount the laptop was worth and he moves out. Ally asks Amy out on a date before returning to the army.\n\nAlly returns; he and Amy begin a relationship. Ally hopes to spend time alone with Amy, but Ste interrupts them and questions Ally's intentions towards Amy. Amy tells Ally that their relationship is moving to fast and he leaves for the night. The next day, Ally attempts to reunite with Amy, unaware that she has had a one-night stand with Dodger. Amy refuses, and goes on a road trip to forget about her problems. Amy is unaware that Dodger's cousin, Dennis Savage (Joe Tracini), has invited both Dodger and Ally on the trip. Dennis hopes to reconcile Ally and Amy. Ally learns that Amy and Dodger had sex, and attacks Dodger. Ally refuses to forgive Amy and returns to the village. Ally and Amy later reunite.\n\nAlly sees Walker and recognises him as \"Nick\" from the army. Walker tells Ally he is mistaken. Walker threatens Ally not to reveal their past history to anyone, which Lynsey Nolan witnesses. Lynsey decides to investigate Ally and follows him to a strip club. Lynsey confronts Ally and they argue when she threatens to tell Amy. Ste overhears them arguing and decides to tell Amy. Lynsey is later found dead. Ste tells Amy about Ally and Lynsey's argument. Ally and Lynsey's argument was witnessed and the police question Ally about Lynsey's death. Amy provides an alibi for Ally, telling the police that they were together at the time Lynsey was murdered. Ally tells Amy he was at a strip club when Lynsey was murdered. Ally explains that he visits strip clubs to look out for the strippers, as his sister was a stripper and was raped by two customers. A stripper at the club verifies Ally's story to Amy and Ste. Amy tells Ally she cannot trust him and leaves. Ally then pays the stripper for covering for him. When Will Savage (James Atherton) is accused of being Lynsey's murderer, Ally leads a hate campaign against him. Ally befriends Ash Kane (Holly Weston) and they both help prove Will's innocence. Ally and Ash later share a kiss. Ally tells Amy about the kiss, explaining that he suffers from Post traumatic stress disorder and was having a panic attack when the kiss happened. Ally then ends his relationship with Amy and moves out. Ash allows Ally to stay with her. He then later sustains a relationship with Ash, and this angers Amy- so soon after they separated.\n\n\"Inside Soap's\" Sarah Ellis did not agree with a viewer's criticism of O'Connor's acting, commenting that the actor had been doing a \"stellar job\" of portraying Ally. Anthony D. Langford writing for AfterElton stated \"I see the show is trying to make Ally interesting by tying him into Brendan and Walker's storyline. But the character is so dull and so underwritten I don't see how it can help.\" A reporter for the \"Liverpool Echo\" said \"Ever since smooth-talking Ally strolled into Hollyoaks village, the suave Aussie has managed to charm his way into most of the locals' good books - but what do they really know about him? Very little, it would appear...\" Carena Crawford from \"Reveal\" branded the character as a \"shady Australian\". Laura Morgan from \"All About Soap\" questioned the point of the character following his departure, saying \"Considering we'd waited the best part of a year to discover this news, we were left a bit cold by Ally's big reveal. For a character that had a lot more potential, he was given a hurried and anti-climatic exit. In fact, Ash kneeing him in the nuts might have been the most exciting thing about the whole thing!\"\n\n\n"}
{"id": "17378874", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17378874", "title": "Anlene Orchard Mile", "text": "Anlene Orchard Mile\n\nThe Anlene Orchard Mile is a sporting event exclusive to women held in Singapore where women either run or walk a mile (1.6 kilometres) on a straight course down Singapore’s most famous and popular shopping street, Orchard Road. Just for the event, traffic authorities close off two lanes of one of Singapore’s busiest streets for the duration of the race that is usually held in the morning from 7am onwards. The flag-off for the mile begins near the Dhoby Ghaut MRT Station and ends near Orchard MRT Station where participants run past famous landmarks such as the Istana, the President’s place of residence.\n\nThe Anlene Orchard Mile was first launched in Singapore in 2007 and was sponsored by Anlene, a dairy nutrition corporation. \nThe aim is to highlight the risk of osteoporosis and raise bone health awareness about building strong bones from within through a sufficient calcium intake of milk everyday coupled with weight bearing exercises as well as to foster the growth and recognition of women in sports in Singapore.\nThe inaugural event in 2007 saw over 2,000 female participants taking part with local TV and radio celebrities lending their name to the cause. Although Anlene Orchard Mile is a running event, participants can walk the race according to their own fitness level. For 2007 and 2008, the official beneficiary of the Anlene Orchard Mile has been the Osteoporosis Society of Singapore (the local chapter of the International Osteoporosis Foundation), where a portion of the proceeds goes to the society.\nThe Anlene Orchard Mile is modelled against successful mile events around the world including the prestigious Fifth Avenue Mile in New York and the Sport Relief Mile which attracts over 10,000 runners and walkers to 15 events across England.\n\nThe Anlene Orchard Mile comprises three categories – the \"Elite Mile\", the \"Women’s Mile\" and the \"Corporate Mile\". The \"Elite Mile\" is an invitational category with a cash prize that is open to competitive runners where past race records are compulsory for verification before an invitation is extended for participation by the organisers. The Anlene Orchard Mile 2007 Elite category winner was Suzy Walsham, a two-time winner of the U.S. Empire State Building Run-up, who walked away with a cash prize of SGD10,500. \n\nThe \"Women’s Mile\" is a category open to women of all ages and fitness levels. The \"Corporate Mile\" is targeted at corporations where female employees are encouraged to participate in groups of four or more.\n\n"}
{"id": "13554822", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13554822", "title": "Arménio Ferreira", "text": "Arménio Ferreira\n\nArménio Ferreira is a former Angolan physician of Portuguese descent. Ferreira was the personal physician and unofficial advisor of Angolan President Agostinho Neto.\n"}
{"id": "10638938", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10638938", "title": "British Society for Plant Pathology", "text": "British Society for Plant Pathology\n\nThe British Society for Plant Pathology, or BSPP, is a UK based organisation of British plant pathologists but accepts members from all countries. It was founded in 1981 and publishes three scientific journals: Plant Pathology, Molecular Plant Pathology and New Disease Reports.\n\nThe organisation actively tries to encourage its younger members to participate. Each year an award is given out each year for the best student paper published in one of societies journals. The PH Gregory prize is awarded to the best presenter of an oral paper at the annual presidential meeting.\n\nLike other organisations of its type it arranges conferences and also awards various scholarships and fellowships.\n"}
{"id": "38612843", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38612843", "title": "Catholic Church and health care", "text": "Catholic Church and health care\n\nThe Roman Catholic Church is the largest non-government provider of health care services in the world. It has around 18,000 clinics, 16,000 homes for the elderly and those with special needs, and 5,500 hospitals, with 65 percent of them located in developing countries. In 2010, the Church's Pontifical Council for the Pastoral Care of Health Care Workers said that the Church manages 26% of the world's health care facilities. The Church's involvement in health care has ancient origins.\n\nJesus Christ, whom the Church holds as its founder, instructed his followers to heal the sick. The early Christians were noted for tending the sick and infirm, and Christian emphasis on practical charity gave rise to the development of systematic nursing and hospitals. The influential Benedictine rule holds that \"the care of the sick is to be placed above and before every other duty, as if indeed Christ were being directly served by waiting on them\". During the Middle Ages, monasteries and convents were the key medical centres of Europe and the Church developed an early version of a welfare state. Cathedral schools evolved into a well integrated network of medieval universities and Catholic scientists (many of them clergymen) made a number of important discoveries which aided the development of modern science and medicine.\n\nSaint Albert the Great (1206–1280) was a pioneer of biological field research; Desiderius Erasmus (1466-1536) helped revive knowledge of ancient Greek medicine, Renaissance popes were often patrons of the study of anatomy, and Catholic artists such as Michelangelo advanced knowledge of the field through sketching cadavers. The Jesuit Athanasius Kircher (1602 – 1680) first proposed that living beings enter and exist in the blood (a precursor of germ theory). The Augustinian Gregor Mendel (1822-1884) developed theories on genetics for the first time. As Catholicism became a global religion, the Catholic orders and religious and lay people established health care centres around the world. Women's religious institutes such as the Sisters of Charity, Sisters of Mercy and Sisters of St Francis opened and operated some of the first modern general hospitals.\n\nWhile the prioritization of charity and healing by early Christians created the hospital, their spiritual emphasis tended to imply \"the subordination of medicine to religion and doctor to priest\". \"[P]hysic and faith\", wrote historian of medicine Ray Porter \"while generally complementary... sometimes tangled in border disputes.\" Similarly in modern times, the moral stance of the Church against contraception and abortion has been a source of controversy. The Church, while being a major provider of health care to HIV AIDS sufferers, and of orphanages for unwanted children, has been criticised for opposing condom use. Due to some Catholics' belief in the sanctity of life from conception, IVF, which leads to the destruction of many embryos, surrogacy, which relies on IVF, and embryonic stem-cell research, which necessitates the destruction of embryos, are among other areas of controversy for the Church in the provision of health care.\n\nCatholic social teaching urges concern for the sick. Jesus Christ, whom the church holds as its founder, placed a particular emphasis on care for the sick and outcast, such as lepers. According to the New Testament, he and his Apostles went about curing the sick and anointing of the sick. According to the Parable of the Sheep and the Goats, which is found in Matthew 25, Jesus identified so strongly with the sick and afflicted that he equated serving them with serving him:\n\nIn a 2013 presentation to its twenty-seventh international conference in 2013, the President of the Pontifical Council for the Pastoral Care of Health Care Workers, Zygmunt Zimowski, said that \"The Church, adhering to the mandate of Jesus, 'Euntes docete et curate infirmos' (Mt 10:6-8, Go, preach and heal the sick), during the course of her history, which by now has lasted two millennia, has always attended to the sick and the suffering.\"\n\nIn orations such as his \"Sermon on the Mount\" and stories such as the \"Parable of the Good Samaritan\", Jesus called on followers to worship God, act without violence or prejudice and care for the sick, hungry and poor. Such teachings formed the foundation of Catholic Church involvement in hospitals and health care.\n\nAccording to the \"Catholic Encyclopedia\":\n\nThe Benedictine rule, which led the profusion of medieval hospitals founded by the Church, requires that \"the care of the sick is to be placed above and before every other duty, as if indeed Christ were being directly served by waiting on them\".\n\nAncient Greek and Roman medicine developed solid foundations over seven centuries, creating, Roy Porter wrote, \"the ideal of a union of science, philosophy and practical medicine in the learned physician...\". But Greek and Roman religion did not preach of a duty to tend to the sick. Christianity emerged into this world as a Jewish sect in the mid-1st century and early Christians from the outset went about tending the sick and infirm. Their priests were often also physicians. St Luke the Evangelist, credited as one of the authors of The New Testament, was a physician. Christian emphasis on practical charity was to give rise to the development of systematic nursing and hospitals after the end of the persecution of the early church.\n\nThe early Christian outlook on sickness drew on various traditions, including Eastern asceticism and Jewish healing traditions, while the New Testament wrote of Jesus and his Apostles as healers. Roy Porter wrote: \"While suffering and disease could appear as chastisement of the wicked or a trial of those the Lord loved, the Church also developed a healing mission...\". Pagan religions seldom offered help to the sick, but the early Christians were willing to nurse the sick and take food to them. Notably during the smallpox epidemic of AD 165–180 and the measles outbreak of around AD 250, \"In nursing the sick and dying, regardless of religion, the Christians won friends and sympathisers\", wrote historian Geoffrey Blainey.\n\nHospitality was considered an obligation of Christian charity and bishops' houses and the valetudinaria of wealthier Christians were used to tend the sick. Deacons were assigned the task of distributing alms, and in Rome by 250 AD, the Church had developed an extensive charitable outreach, with wealthy converts supporting the poor. It is believed that the first church hospitals were constructed in the East, and only later in the Latin West. An early hospital may have been built at Constantinople during the age of Constantine by St. Zoticus. St. Basil built a famous hospital at Cæsarea in Cappadocia which \"had the dimensions of a city\". In the West, Saint Fabiola founded a hospital at Rome around 400. Saint Jerome wrote that Fabiola founded a hospital and \"assembled all the sick from the streets and highways\" and \"personally tended the unhappy and impoverished victims of hunger and disease... washed the pus from sores that others could not even behold\".\n\nSeveral early Christian healers are honoured as Saints in the Catholic tradition. Cosmas and Damian, brothers from Cilicia in Asia Minor, supplanted the pagan Asclepius as the patron saints of medicine and were celebrated for their healing powers. Said to have lived in the late Third Century AD and to have performed a miraculous first leg transplant on a patient, and later martyred under the Emperor Diocletian, Cosmos and Damian appear in the heraldry of barber-surgeon companies. Notable contributors to the medical sciences of those early centuries include Tertullian (born A.D. 160), Clement of Alexandria, Lactantius and the learned St. Isidore of Seville (d. 636). St. Benedict of Nursia (480) emphasised medicine as an aid to the provision of hospitality. The martyr Saint Pantaleon was said to be physician to the Emperor Maximinianus, who sentenced him to death for his Christianity. Since the Middle Ages, Pantaleon has been considered a patron saint of physicians and midwives.\n\nThe administration of the Eastern and Western Roman Empires split and the demise of the Western Empire by the sixth century was accompanied by a series of violent invasions and precipitated the collapse of cities and civic institutions of learning, along with their links to the learning of classical Greece and Rome. For the next thousand years, medical knowledge would change very little. A scholarly medical tradition maintained itself in the more stable East, but in the West, scholarship virtually disappeared outside of the Church, where monks were aware of a dwindling range of medical texts. The legacy of this early period was, in the words of Porter, that \"Christianity planted the hospital: the well-endowed establishments of the Levant and the scattered houses of the West shared a common religious ethos of charity.\"\n\nGeoffrey Blainey likened the Catholic Church in its activities during the Middle Ages to an early version of a welfare state: \"It conducted hospitals for the old and orphanages for the young; hospices for the sick of all ages; places for the lepers; and hostels or inns where pilgrims could buy a cheap bed and meal\". It supplied food to the population during famine and distributed food to the poor. This welfare system the church funded through collecting taxes on a large scale and possessing large farmlands and estates. It was common for monks and clerics to practice medicine and medical students in northern European universities often took minor Holy orders. Mediaeval hospitals had a strongly Christian ethos, and were, in the words of historian of medicine Roy Porter, \"religious foundations through and through\", and Ecclesiastical regulations were passed to govern medicine, partly to prevent clergymen profiting from medicine.\n\nAfter a period of decline, the Holy Roman Emperor Charlamagne had decreed that a hospital should be attached to each cathedral and monastery. Following his death, the hospitals again declined, but by the tenth century, monasteries were the leading providers of hospital work - among them the Benedictine Abbey of Cluny. Charlemagne's decree required each monastery and Cathedral chapter to establish a school and in these schools, medicine was commonly taught. Gerbert of Aurillac (c. 946 – 12 May 1003), known to history as Pope Sylvester II, taught medicine at one such school. Petrus of Spain (1210-1277) was a physician who wrote the popular \"Treasury of the Poor\" medical text and became Pope John XXI in 1276.\n\nOther famous physicians and medical researchers of the Middle Ages include the Abbot of Monte Cassino Bertharius, the Abbot of Reichenau Walafrid Strabo, the Abbess St Hildegard of Bingen and the Bishop of Rennes Marbodus of Angers. Monasteries of this era were diligent in the study of medicine, and often too were convents. Hildegard of Bingen, a doctor of the church, is among the most distinguished of Medieval Catholic women scientists. Other than theological works, Hildegard also wrote \"Physica,\" a text on the natural sciences, as well as \"Causae et Curae\". Hildegard was well known for her healing powers involving practical application of tinctures, herbs, and precious stones.\n\nIn keeping with the Benedictine rule that the care of the sick be placed above all other duties, monasteries were the key medical care providers prior to 1300. Most monasteries offered shelter for pilgrims and an infirmary for sick monks, while separate hospitals were founded for the public. The Benedictine order was noted for setting up hospitals and infirmaries in their monasteries, growing medical herbs and becoming the chief medical care givers of their districts. The Capuchin monks sought a revival of the ideals of Francis of Assisi, offering care after plague struck at Camerino in 1523.\n\nHealing shrines were established and different saints came to be invoked for every body part in the hope of miraculous cures. Some of the shrines remain to the present day, and were in the Middle Ages great centres for pilgrims, complete with relics and souvenirs. St Luke or St Michael were invoked for various ailments, and a host of saints for individuals conditions, including St Roch as a protector against Plague. St Roch is venerated as one who provided care to plague suffers, only to fall sick himself and be \"healed by an angel\". Through the devastating Bubonic Plague, the Franciscans were notable for tending the sick. The apparent impotence of medical knowledge against the disease prompted critical examination. Medical scientists came to divide among anti-Galenists, anti-Arabists and positive Hippocratics.\n\nCrusader orders established several new traditions of Catholic medical care. The famous Knights Hospitaller arose as a group of individuals associated with an Amalfitan hospital in Jerusalem, which was built to provide care for poor, sick or injured pilgrims to the Holy Land. Following the capture of the city by Crusaders, the order became a military as well as infirmarian order. The Knights of St John of Jerusalem were later known as the Knights of Malta. The Knights Templar and Teutonic Knights established hospitals around the Mediterranean and through Germanic lands.\n\nNon military orders of brothers also took up the service of the infirmed. By the 15th century, the brothers of the Order of the Holy Spirit were providing care across Europe, and by the sixteenth century the Spanish founded Order of St John of God had set up about 200 hospitals in the Americas. In Catholic Spain amidst the early Reconquista, Archbishop Raimund founded an institution for translations, which employed a number of Jewish translators to communicate the works of Arabian medicine. Influenced by the rediscovery of Aristotelean thought, churchmen like the Dominican Albert Magnus and the Franciscan Roger Bacon made significant advances in the observation of nature.\n\nSmall hospitals for pilgrims sprung up in the West during the early Middle Ages, but by the latter section of the period had grown more substantial, with hospitals founded for lepers, pilgrims, the sick, aged and poor. Milan, Siena, Paris and Florence had numerous and large hospitals. \"Within hospitals walls\", wrote Porter, \"the Christian ethos was all pervasive\". From just 12 beds in 1288, the Sta Maria Nuova in Florence \"gradually expanded by 1500 to a medical staff of ten doctors, a pharmacist, and several assistants, including female surgeons\", and was boasted of as the \"first hospital among Christians\".\n\nClergy were active at the School of Salerno, the oldest medical school in Western Europe - among the important churchmen to teach there were Alpuhans, later (1058–85) Archbishop of Salerno and the influential Constantine of Carthage, a monk who produced superior translations of Hippocrates and investigated Arab literature. Cathedral schools began in the Early Middle Ages as centers of advanced education, some of them ultimately evolving into medieval universities. The medieval universities of Western Christendom were well-integrated across all of Western Europe, encouraged freedom of enquiry and produced a great variety of fine scholars and natural philosophers, including Robert Grosseteste of the University of Oxford, an early expositor of a systematic method of scientific experimentation; and Saint Albert the Great, a pioneer of biological field research Porter wrote that, \"The great age of hospital building from around 1200 coincided with the flourishing of universities in Italy, Spain, France and England, sustained by the new wealth of the High Middle Ages ... The Universities extended the work of Salerno in medical education\".\n\nFrom the 14th Century, the European Renaissance saw a revival of interest in Classical learning in Western Europe, coupled with and fuelled by the spread of new inventions like the printing press. The Fall of Constantinople brought refugee scholars from the Greek East to the West. The Catholic scholar Desiderius Erasmus (1466-1536) was interested in medicine and influential in reviving Greek as a language of learning, and the study of the pre-Christian works of Galen. Roy Porter wrote that \"after centuries where the Church had taught mankind to renounce worldly goods, for the sake of eternity, Renaissance man showed an insatiable curiosity for the materiality of the here and now...\".\n\nIn Renaissance Italy, the Popes were often patrons of the study of anatomy and Catholic artists such as Michelangelo advanced knowledge of the field through such studies as sketching cadavers to improve his portraits of the crucifixion. It is often wrongly asserted that the papacy banned dissection during the period, though in fact the directive of Pope Sixtus IV of 1482 to the University of Tübingen said that the Church had no objection to anatomy studies, provided the bodies belonged to an executed criminal, and was given a religious burial once examinations were completed.\n\nIn modern times, the Catholic Church is the largest non-government provider of health care in the world. Catholic religious have been responsible for founding and running networks of hospitals across the world where medical research continues to be advanced. In 2013, Robert Calderisi wrote that the Catholic Church has around 18,000 clinics, 16,000 homes for the elderly and those with special needs, and 5,500 hospitals - with 65 per cent of them located in developing countries.\n\nCatholic scientists in Europe (many of them clergymen) made a number of important discoveries which aided the development of modern science and medicine. Catholic women were also among the first female professors of medicine, as with Trotula of Salerno the 11th century pysician and Dorotea Bucca who held a chair of medicine and philosophy at the University of Bologna. The Jesuit order, created during the Reformation, contributed a number of distinguished medical scientists. In the field of bacteriology it was the Jesuit Athanasius Kircher (1671) who first proposed that living beings enter and exist in the blood (a precursor of germ theory). In the development of ophthalmology, Christophe Scheiner made important advances in relation to refraction of light and the retinal image.\n\nGregor Mendel, an Austrian scientist and Augustinian friar, began experimenting with peas around 1856. Mendel had joined the Brno Augustinian Monastery in 1843, but also trained as a scientist at the Olmutz Philosophical Institute and the University of Vienna. The Brno Monastery was a centre of scholarship, with an extensive library and tradition of scientific research. Observing the processes of pollination at his monastery in modern Czechoslovakia, Mendel studied and developed theories pertaining to the field of science now called genetics. Mendel published his results in 1866 in the \"Journal of the Brno Natural History Society\", and is considered the father of modern genetics. Where Charles Darwin's theories suggested a mechanism for improvement of species over generations, Mendel's observations provided explanation for how a new species itself could emerge. Though Darwin and Mendel never collaborated, they were aware of each other's work (Darwin read a paper by Wilhelm Olbers Focke which extensively referenced Mendel). Bill Bryson wrote that \"without realizing it, Darwin and Mendel laid the groundwork for all of life sciences in the twentieth century. Darwin saw that all living things are connected, that ultimately they trace their ancestry to a single, common source; Mendel's work provided the mechanism to explain how that could happen\".\n\nCatholic religious institutes, notably those for women, developed many hospitals throughout Europe and its empires. Ancient orders like the Dominicans and Carmelites have long lived in religious communities that work in ministries such as education and care of the sick. The Portuguese Saint John of God (d. 1550) founded the Brothers Hospitallers of St. John of God to care for the sick and afflicted. The order built hospitals across Europe and its growing Empires. In 1898, John was declared patron of the dying and all hospitals by Pope Leo XIII. in The Italian Saint Camillus de Lellis, considered a patron saint of nurses, was a reformed gambler and soldier who became a nurse and then director of Hospital for Incurables in Rome. In 1584 he founded the Camillians to tend to the plague-stricken. Irishwoman Catherine McAuley founded the Sisters of Mercy in Dublin in 1831. Her congregation went on to found schools and hospitals across the globe. Saint Jeanne Jugan founded the Little Sisters of the Poor on the Rule of Saint Augustine to assist the impoverished elderly of the streets of France in the mid-nineteenth century. It too spread around the world.\n\nIn 2017, controversy arose when an Associated Press report, which the Vatican criticized, stated that Bambino Gesu (Baby Jesus) Pediatric Hospital, a cornerstone of Italy's health care system and administered by the Holy See, put children at risk between 2008 and 2015 and turned its attention to profit after losing money and expanding services.\n\nThe Spanish and Portuguese Empires were largely responsible for spreading the Catholic faith and its philosophy regarding health care to South and Central America, where the church established substantial hospital networks.\n\nCatholic hospitals were established in the modern United States prior to the American War of Independence. The first was probably Charity Hospital, New Orleans, established around 1727. The Sisters of Saint Francis of Syracuse, New York, produced Saint Marianne Cope, who opened and operated some of the first general hospitals in the United States, instituting cleanliness standards which influenced the development of America's modern hospital system, and famously taking her nuns to Hawaii to work with Saint Damien of Molokai in the care of lepers. St Damien himself is considered a martyr of charity and model of Catholic humanitarianism for his mission to the lepers of Molokai.\n\nThe Catholic Church is the largest private provider of health care in the United States of America. During the 1990s, the church provided about one in six hospital beds in America, at around 566 hospitals, many established by nuns. The church has carried a disproportionate number of poor and uninsured patients at its facilities and the American bishops first called for universal health care in America in 1919. The church has been an active campaigner in that cause ever since. In the abortion debate in America, the church has sought to retain the right not to perform abortions in its health care facilities. In 2012, the church operated 12.6% of hospitals in the USA, accounting for 15.6% of all admissions, and around 14.5% of hospital expenses (c. 98.6 billion dollars). Compared to the public system, the church provided greater financial assistance or free care to poor patients, and was a leading provider of various low-profit health services such as breast cancer screenings, nutrition programs, trauma, and care of the elderly.\n\nRoman Catholic medical facilities refuse treatment which runs counter to their beliefs. Contraception among other treatments is not provided, complications due to existing contraception may not be treated. Users may be unaware of these restrictions, even unaware that their health provider is connected with the Roman Catholic Church till something goes wrong. For example, a woman bleeding and in pain due to a misplaced Intrauterine contraceptive device was refused treatment.\nDuring the Middle Ages, Arab medicine was influential on Europe. During Europe's Age of Discovery, Catholic missionaries, notably the Jesuits, introduced the modern sciences to India, China and Japan. While persecutions continue to limit the spread of Catholic institutions to some Middle Eastern Muslim nations, and places such as the People's Republic of China and North Korea, elsewhere in Asia the church is a major provider of health care services - especially in Catholic Nations like the Philippines.\n\nThe famous Mother Teresa of Calcutta established the Missionaries of Charity in the slums of Calcutta in 1948 to work among \"the poorest of the poor\". Initially founding a school, she then gathered other sisters who \"rescued new-born babies abandoned on rubbish heaps; they sought out the sick; they took in lepers, the unemployed, and the mentally ill\". Teresa achieved fame in the 1960s and began to establish convents around the world. By the time of her death in 1997, the religious institute she founded had more than 450 centres in over 100 countries.\n\nMother Theresa encouraged a daily prayer for the Mother Theresa Children’s Home: \n\nFrench, Portuguese, British and Irish missionaries brought Catholicism to Oceania and built hospitals and care centres across the region. The church remains not only a key provider of health care in predominantly Catholic nations like East Timor but also in predominantly Protestant and secular nations like Australia and New Zealand.\n\nAs restrictions were lifted by British authorities on the practice of Catholicism in colonial Australia, Catholic religious institutes founded many of Australia's hospitals. Irish Sisters of Charity arrived in Sydney in 1838 and established St Vincent's Hospital, Sydney in 1857 as a free hospital for the poor. The Sisters went on to found hospitals, hospices, research institutes and aged care facilities in Victoria, Queensland and Tasmania. At St Vincent's they trained leading surgeon Victor Chang and opened Australia's first AIDS clinic. In the 21st century, with more and more lay people involved in management, the sisters began callaborating with Sisters of Mercy Hospitals in Melbourne and Sydney. Jointly the group operates four public hospitals; seven private hospitals and 10 aged care facilities.\n\nThe Sisters of Mercy arrived in Auckland in 1850 and were the first order of religious sisters to come to New Zealand and began work in health care and education.\n\nThe Sisters of St Joseph, founded in Australia by Australia's first Saint, Mary MacKillop, and Fr Julian Tenison Woods in 1867. MacKillop travelled throughout Australasia and established schools, convents and charitable institutions. The English Sisters of the Little Company of Mary arrived in 1885 and have since established public and private hospitals, retirement living and residential aged care, community care and comprehensive palliative care in New South Wales, the ACT, Victoria, Tasmania, South Australia and the Northern Territory. The Little Sisters of the Poor, who follow the charism of Saint Jeanne Jugan to \"offer hospitality to the needy aged\" arrived in Melbourne in 1884 and now operate four aged care homes in Australia.\n\nCatholic Health Australia is today the largest non-government provider grouping of health, community and aged care services in Australia. These do not operate for profit and range across the full spectrum of health services, representing about 10% of the health sector and employing 35,000 people. Catholic organisations in New Zealand remain heavily involved in community activities including education; health services; chaplaincy to prisons, rest homes, and hospitals; social justice and human rights advocacy.\n\nCatholicism has grown rapidly in Africa over the last two centuries. As in all other continents, Catholic missionaries established health care centres across the continent - though limitations on Catholic institutions remain in place for much of Muslim North Africa. Caritas Internationalis is the Church's main international aid and development body and operates in over 200 countries and territories and co-operates closely with the United Nations.\n\nPope Paul VI issued the \"Humanae Vitae\" Encyclical Letter on the Regulation of Birth in 1968, which outlined opposition to \"artificial birth control\" on the basis that it would open a \"wide and easy a road ... towards conjugal infidelity and the general lowering of morality\". In response to the subsequent AIDS epidemic which emerged from the 1980s onward, the United Nations Population Fund (UNFPA) has argued that \"comprehensive condom programming is a key institutional priority ... because condoms ... are recognized as the only currently available and effective way to prevent HIV – and other sexually transmitted infections – among sexually active people\". A 2014 report by The U.N. Committee on the Rights of the Child called on the Church to \"overcome all the barriers and taboos surrounding adolescent sexuality that hinder their access to sexual and reproductive information, including on family planning and contraceptives\".\n\nIn Africa today, the church is heavily engaged in providing care to AIDS sufferers amidst the AIDS epidemic. Following the election of Pope Francis in 2013, UNAIDS wrote that the Church \"provides support to millions of people living with HIV around the world\" and that \"Statistics from the Vatican in 2012 indicate that Catholic Church-related organizations provide approximately a quarter of all HIV treatment, care, and support throughout the world and run more than 5,000 hospitals, 18,000 dispensaries and 9,000 orphanages, many involved in AIDS-related activities.\" UNAIDS co-operates closely with the Church on critical issues such as the elimination of new HIV infections in children, and keeping their mothers alive, as well as increasing access to antiretroviral medication.\n\nIn keeping with the emphasis of Catholic social teaching, many religious institutes have devoted themselves to service of the sick, homeless, disabled, orphaned, aged or mentally ill. Women's religious institutes played a particularly prominent role in the development of the Catholic Church's health care networks.\n\nBecause the Catholic Church opposes abortion, euthanasia and contraception and other health procedures, Catholic health facilities will not provide most or all such services. In public debates, particularly among Western nations like the United States, this has raised questions over insurance public/private financial co-operation and government interference and regulation of health facilities. Writing in 2012, the Australian human rights lawyer and Jesuit Frank Brennan, in response to calls for public funding to Catholic hospitals to be contingent on them offering the \"full suites of services\", said that:\n\nThe Catholic Church's opposition to abortion has also restricted its hospitals' treatment of miscarriages. In cases where evacuation of the miscarriage from the uterus is medically indicated, doctors have been prohibited from carrying it out while a fetal heartbeat is still present, \"in effect delaying care until fetal heart tones cease, the pregnant woman becomes ill, or the patient is transported to a non–Catholic-owned facility for the procedure.\"\n\nA number of controversies have arisen over the application of these treatments in Catholic hospitals, or the lack thereof; for instance, in the United States, a member of a hospital ethics committee was excommunicated when she approved a therapeutic abortion to save a patient's life, and in Germany, a case of two hospitals turning away and refusing to examine or treat a rape victim led to new guidelines from the country's bishops stating that hospitals could provide emergency contraception to victims of rape.\n\nAs regards IVF and surrogacy, the Church's teaching, which states that every human life is sacred from conception until natural death, and that the vulnerable should be protected, therefore finds that this technology, which leads to the death of many embryos for each successful pregnancy, to be an abuse of power at the cost of the weakest. However, Catholics have been active in developing alternative treatments for infertility and especially addressing its root causes, which, in addition to causing infertility or risk of miscarriage, are likely to have other consequences on health, such as polycystic ovarian syndrome, thyroid conditions and endometriosis.\n\nIn 2016, a woman was refused treatment according to the \"Ethical and Religious Directives for Catholic Health Care Services\" for her dislodged IUD, although she was bleeding, cramping and in pain.\n\nThere are a number of patron saints for physicians, the most important of whom are Saint Luke the Evangelist, the physician and disciple of Christ; Saints Cosmas and Damian, 3rd-century physicians from Syria; and Saint Pantaleon, a 4th-century physician from Nicomedia. Archangel Raphael is also considered a patron saint of physicians.\n\nThe patron saints for surgeons are Saint Luke the Evangelist, the physician and disciple of Christ, Saints Cosmas and Damian (3rd-century physicians from Syria), Saint Quentin (3rd-century saint from France), Saint Foillan (7th-century saint from Ireland), and Saint Roch (14th-century saint from France).\n\nVarious Catholic Saints are considered patrons of nursing: Saint Agatha, Saint Alexius, Saint Camillus of Lellis, St Catherine of Alexandria, St Catherine of Siena, St John of God, St Margaret of Antioch, and Raphael the Archangel.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "28441891", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28441891", "title": "Chief medical informatics officer", "text": "Chief medical informatics officer\n\nA chief medical informatics officer (CMIO, also sometimes referred to as a chief medical information officer, or chief clinical information officer - CCIO in the United Kingdom) is a healthcare executive generally responsible for the health informatics platform required to work with clinical IT staff to support the efficient design, implementation, and use of health technology within a healthcare organization.\n\nTypically the CMIO is a physician with some degree of formal health informatics training or a working equivalent thereof, who often works in conjunction with, or helps to manage other physician, nurse, pharmacy, and general informaticists within the organization. According to the 2012 CMIO Survey, 60% had salaries higher than $200,000 per year.\n\nWhile historically there have been physicians and others filling this role, the more formal CMIO position started around 1992 to help hospitals support the adoption and implementation of health technologies such as electronic medical records (EMRs), electronic health records (EHRs), computerized physician order entry (CPOE), electronic documentation, health information exchanges (HIEs), and other technologies used in the clinical setting. The trend for healthcare organizations to have a CMIO has continued to grow, and accelerated as technology use in the clinical setting has been stimulated by programs such as the 2009 Health Information Technology for Economic and Clinical Health Act (HITECH Act).\n\nCMIOs generally report to either the chief medical officer (CMO), chief information officer (CIO), chief operations officer (COO), or chief executive officer (CEO). The exact roles and responsibilities vary widely, from organization to organization, often depending on the reporting structure, but they typically include at least one of the following:\n\n"}
{"id": "5716568", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5716568", "title": "Complementary Medicine Evaluation Programme", "text": "Complementary Medicine Evaluation Programme\n\nIn 1998, the Swiss government began a comprehensive Program for Evaluating Complementary Medicine (PEK : Programm Evaluation Komplementärmedizin = Program for Evaluating Complementary Medicine) to study the role and effectiveness of complementary medicine, which was playing an ever-increasing role in the Swiss medical system.\n\nAccording to the PEK Report, results of the evaluation were inconclusive, and in June 2005, the five complementary therapies under evaluation - anthroposophical medicine, homeopathy, neural therapy, phytotherapy and traditional Chinese medicine (more precisely, traditional Chinese herbal therapy) - were removed from the list of services covered by the compulsory health insurance scheme (KLV).\n\nThe complete text of the 24 April 2005 version of the \"Programm Evaluation Komplementärmedizin\" Report, (also referred to as PEK, \"Program for Evaluating Complementary Medicine\" and \"Complementary Medicine Evaluation Programme\"), is available from the Swiss Parliament website and also from the Swiss Federal Office of Health (BAG) PEK download webpage.\n\nThe official data is available (in German and French) from the Swiss Federal Office of Public Health (BAG) data download page.\n\nFollowing the decision taken by the Swiss Federal Department of Home Affairs (DHA) on 9 July 1998, five complementary therapies - anthroposophical medicine, homeopathy, neural therapy, phytotherapy and traditional Chinese medicine (more precisely, traditional Chinese herbal therapy) - were included on 1 July 1999 for a limited period (until 30 June 2005) in the list of services covered by the compulsory health insurance scheme (KLV). These five services were only eligible for reimbursement if they were provided by physicians who had the relevant proficiency certificates, issued by the Swiss Medical Association (FMH).\n\nThe decision on whether these complementary methods would be retained within the basic health insurance scheme was to be based on their efficacy, appropriateness and cost-effectiveness being demonstrated. To this end, the Complementary Medicine Evaluation Programme (PEK) was carried out from 1998 to 2005.\n\nA basic procedure was defined, comprising two parts.\n\nIn Part 1 (evaluation of the provision of complementary medicine for patients in Switzerland), empirical studies were to be carried out, permitting conclusions as to: \nFor points b), c), and e), comparisons were made with conventional medicine. On account of methodological and time-related problems, however, point d) could not be evaluated.\n\nIn Part 2 (literature analysis), the literature available internationally on efficacy, appropriateness (here primarily defined in terms of safety and utilization) and cost-effectiveness was to be systematically compiled and reviewed.\n\nPart 1 was carried out by a team from the Panmedion Foundation, a pro-CAM think tank. The results were not published in the peer-reviewed literature but an expanded version was separately published an translation as \"Homeopathy in Healthcare: Effectiveness, Appropriateness, Safety, Costs\". This paper, promoted by homeopathy supporters as a \"Swiss government report\" was strongly criticised and characterised as \"a case study of research misconduct\" due to undeclared conflicts of interest, reversal of the normal hierarchy of evidence and other concerns, prompting Dr. Felix Gurtner of the Swiss Federal Office of Public Health to disown its purported status.\n\nPart 2 was published in The Lancet as \"Are the clinical effects of homoeopathy placebo effects? Comparative study of placebo-controlled trials of homoeopathy and allopathy.\"\n\nThe terms-of-reference for the PEK study stated that the results of the study would determine which complementary medicines, if any, would continue to be supported by the national insurance program in Switzerland. However, before the study was completed and the final draft report reviewed by the international Review Board, the government announced that it would withdraw support for all complementary approaches to medicine.\n\nProponents of CAM (including the scientific director of the program) were dissatisfied with the outcome.\n\nBoth reports were given reduced weight\n\nFollowing a referendum in which the authors of the Part 1 report acted as proponents, reimbursement was reinstated for a further trial period of 5 years from 2012.\n\n"}
{"id": "7694809", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7694809", "title": "Comprehensive sex education", "text": "Comprehensive sex education\n\nComprehensive sex education (CSE) is a sex education instruction method based on-curriculum that aims to give students the knowledge, attitudes, skills and values to make appropriate and healthy choices in their sexual lives. The intention is that this understanding will prevent students from contracting sexually transmitted infections in the future, including HIV and HPV. CSE is also designed with the intention of reducing teenage and unwanted pregnancies, as well as lowering rates of domestic and sexual violence, thus contributing to a healthier society, both physically and mentally.\n\nComprehensive sex education ultimately promotes sexual abstinence as the safest sexual choice for young people. However, CSE curriculums and teachers are still committed to teaching students about topics connected to future sexual activity, such as age of consent, safe sex, contraception such as: birth control, abortion, and use of condoms. This also includes discussions which promote safe behaviors, such as communicating with partners and seeking testing for sexually transmitted infections. Additionally, comprehensive sex education curricula may include discussions surrounding pregnancy outcomes such as parenting, adoption, and abortion. The most widely agreed benefit of using comprehensive sex education over abstinence-only sex education is that CSE acknowledges the student population will be sexually active in their future. By acknowledging this, CSE can encourage students to plan ahead to make the healthiest possible sexual decisions. This ideology of arming students to most successfully survive their future sexual experiences underlies the majority of topics within CSE, including condoms, contraception, and refusal skills.\n\nStudies have found that comprehensive sex education is more effective than receiving no instruction and/or those who receive abstinence-only instruction. Acknowledging that people may engage in premarital sex rather than ignoring it (which abstinence-only is often criticized for) allows educators to give the students the necessary information to safely navigate their future sexual lives. \n\nCSE advocates argue that promoting abstinence without accompanied information regarding safe sex practices is a disregard of reality, and is ultimately putting the student at risk. For example, programs funded under AEGP are reviewed for compliance with the 8 standards (listed below in \"Abstinence Education Grant Program (AGEP) Requirements), but are not screened for medical accuracy. Therefore, critics believe that students under these educational programs are put at a disadvantage because it prevents them from making informed choices about their sexual health. Additionally, under these AEGP programs, health educators have referred to those that engage in sex, especially females, as \"dirty\" and \"used.\" They have also used phrases such as \"stay like a new toothbrush, wrapped up and unused\" and \"chewed-up gum\" to teach abstinence. Under a CSE model, language would be more sensitive.\n\nThere is clear evidence that CSE has a positive impact on sexual and reproductive health (SRH), notably in contributing to reducing STIs, HIV and unintended pregnancy. Sexuality education does not hasten sexual activity but has a positive impact on safer sexual behaviours and can delay sexual debut. A 2014 review of school-based sexuality education programmes has demonstrated increased HIV knowledge, increased self-efficacy related to condom use and refusing sex, increased contraception and condom use, a reduced number of sexual partners and later initiation of first sexual intercourse. A Cochrane review of 41 randomized controlled trials in Europe, the United States, Nigeria and Mexico also confirmed that CSE prevents unintended adolescent pregnancies. CSE is very beneficial in regards to teen pregnancy because studies show that, teen pregnancy and childbearing have a significant negative impact on high school success and completion, as well as future job prospects. A study in Kenya, involving more than 6,000 students who had received sexuality education led to delayed sexual initiation, and increased condom use among those who were sexually active once these students reached secondary school compared to more than 6,000 students who did not receive sexuality education. CSE also reduces the frequency of sex and the number of partners which in turn also reduces the rates of sexually transmitted infections.\n\nUNAIDS and the African Union have recognized CSE’s impact on increasing condom use, voluntary HIV testing and reducing pregnancy among adolescent girls and have included comprehensive, age-appropriate sexuality education as one of the key recommendations to fast track the HIV response and end the AIDS epidemic among young women and girls in Africa.\n\nAs the field of sexuality education develops, there is increasing focus on addressing gender, power relations and human rights in order to improve the impact on SRH outcomes. Integrating content on gender and rights makes sexuality education even more effective. A review of 22 curriculum- based sexuality education programmes found that 80 per cent of programmes that addressed gender or power relations were associated with a significant decrease in pregnancy, childbearing or STIs. These programmes were five times as effective as those programmes that did not address gender or power. CSE empowers young people to reflect critically on their environment and behaviours, and promotes gender equality and equitable social norms, which are important contributing factors for improving health outcomes, including HIV infection rates. The impact of CSE also increases when delivered together with efforts to expand access to a full range of high- quality, youth-friendly services and commodities, particularly in relation to contraceptive choice.\n\nA global review of evidence in the education sector also found that teaching sexuality education builds confidence, a necessary skill for delaying the age that young people first engage in sexual intercourse, and for using contraception, including condoms. CSE has a demonstrated impact on improving knowledge, self-esteem, changing attitudes, gender and social norms, and building self-efficacy.\n\nWhile CSE implementation is on the rise in the United States, it remains difficult for state officials to regulate what is and is not taught in the classroom. This is due in large part to the undefinability of CSE; CSE has the potential to comprise such a wide range of sexual information, and over-all focus varies widely between curriculums. Educators have also accused CSE as fundamentally operating as a form of \"abstinence-plus,\" due to the reality that CSE often involves minimal body related information and excessive promotions of abstinence. \"So-called Comprehensive Sex Ed\" says Sharon Lamb, a professor at the University of Massachusetts Boston, \"has been made less comprehensive as curricula are revised to meet current federal, state, and local requirements.\"\n\nThe term \"comprehensive\" is also often misleading because some comprehensive programs do not show the holistic picture of human sexuality. LGBTQIA+ advocates have long been critical of the ways in which comprehensive sex education generally promotes marriage as the end goal for students. Even when curriculums claim to be inclusive of LGBT experiences, they often promote heteronormative lifestyles as \"normal.\" Inclusion of LGBT identities and health topics is necessary for LGBTQIA+ students to feel safe and seen in their sex ed classrooms. When these students do not have access to or an interest in marriage they are practically erased from the CSE narrative. \n\nA cross sectional study done in New York City analyzed the sexual behaviors of high school girls. Studies found that, \"high school girls who identified as LGBTQIA+ were more likely to report substance use such as: alcohol, marijuana, cocaine, heroin, meth, ecstasy and prescription drugs. They also had higher rates of contemplating and/or attempting suicide.\" Another study found that \"the LGBTQIA+ youth accesses health information online five times more than the heterosexual population, and these rates are even higher for LGBTQIA+ youth that identify as a person of color which stems from the fact that they lack health resources. \n\nIn fact, as of May 2018, only 12 states require discussion of sexual orientation and of these, only 9 states require that discussion of sexual orientation be inclusive. Additionally, several states have passed legislation that bans teachers from discussing gay and transgender issues, such as sexual health and HIV/AIDS awareness, in a positive light. Furthermore, three states require that teachers only portray LGBTQIA+ people in a negative light.\n\nIn a Canada, a federal report showed that LGBTQIA+ community has less access to health services and faces more comprehensive health challenges compared to the general population. As a result of lack of support for the LGBTQIA+ population, the Comprehensive Health Education Workers (CHEW) Project emerged in October 2014. Their goal is to educate the LGBTQIA+ community about topics such sexual and gender identity, sexually transmitted infections (STIs), healthy social relationships, and depression. They do this though workshops, arts‐based projects, and one‐on‐one meetings. \n\nMany people regard health education as a moral or religious issue, and therefore should be taught not in schools. \"Before the late 1800s, delivering sex education in the United States and Canada was primarily seen as a parent’s responsibility. Today, programs under the Sexuality Information and Education Council of the United States (SIECUS) begin comprehensive sex education in pre-kindergarten, which many people believe is not age appropriate. Many of those in favor of abstinence only education, usually fear any type of sexual education that encourages sexual behavior at a young age.\n\nAlthough CSE is seen as the polar opposite of abstinence only education, some critics believe that they are very similar. They both aim at preventing STIs and teen pregnancy. The only way in which they differ is through their primary goal. Abstinence only education aims at reducing premarital sex while comprehensive sex education acknowledges that premarital sex may happen and therefore seeks to reduce the unintended consequences of premarital sex through education. Studies in developing counties surrounding sex education have also shown that comprehensive sex education is not needed. General education, such as literacy skills, was seen to delay sexual initiation and reduced the likelihood of pregnancy. Therefore, some people believe general education is of more importance.\n\nAlthough there is no federal mandate that requires states to teach sexual education, there is federal funding available to assist with sexual education programs.\n\nHistorically, funding for abstinence education has always been favored over CSE. In 1996, during Bill Clinton's presidency, legislation was passed to promote abstinence in education programs. Under Title V Section 510 of the Social Security Act, the Abstinence Education Grant Program (AGEP), was passed. AEGP has always been renewed before its expiration date, and each time funds gradually increase from fifty million dollars per year to seventy-five and as high as $6.75 million per state grant in 2015. The way the funds are disbursed are based on the proportion of low-income children in each state. So far, thirty-six states have been given AEGP funds.\n\nPart of Section 510(b) of Title V of the Social Security Act, contains the \"A-H guidelines,\" which are the eight criteria that programs must abide by order to be eligible to receive federal funding. They are as follows:\n\nA. Has as its exclusive purpose teaching the social, psychological, and health gains to be realized by abstaining from sexual activity;\n\nB. Teaches abstinence from sexual activity outside marriage as the expected standard for all school-age children;\n\nC. Teaches that abstinence from sexual activity is the only certain way to avoid out-of-wedlock pregnancy, sexually transmitted diseases, and other associated health problems;D. Teaches that a mutually faithful, monogamous relationship in the context of marriage is the expected standard of sexual activity;E. Teaches that sexual activity outside the context of marriage is likely to have harmful psychological and physical effects;\n\nF. Teaches that bearing children out of wedlock is likely to have harmful consequences for the child, the child's parents, and society;G. Teaches young people how to reject sexual advances and how alcohol and drug use increase vulnerability to sexual advances; andH. Teaches the importance of attaining self-sufficiency before engaging in sexual activity;\n\nIn addition to abiding by these 8 conditions, AGEP compliant programs cannot discuss contraception, STIs, or methods for protecting against STIs, except only when describing failure rates.\n\nMore recently legislation has pushed for funding that goes beyond abstinence only education. In 2010, President Obama introduced the Teen Pregnancy Prevention Program (TPP), which provides a total of $114.5 million annually to sex education programs that are \"medically accurate and age-appropriate.\" TPP falls under a subsection of United States Department of Health and Human Services (\"HHS\") which is overseen by the Office of Adolescent Health. Funding for TPP is dispersed if \"they emulate specific evidence-based programs promulgated under TPP.\" \n\nIn January 2016, the California Healthy Youth Act, amended the California Comprehensive Sexual Health and HIV/AIDS Prevention Education Act to include minority groups and expand health education. Before it authorized schools to provide comprehensive sex education and required that all materials are made accessible to students with a variety of needs. It also focused solely on marital relationships. It now mandates that schools provide comprehensive sex education and states that \"materials cannot be biased and must be appropriate for students of all races, genders, sexual orientations, and ethnic and cultural backgrounds, as well as those with disabilities and English language learners.\" Additionally, education must now include \"instruction about forming healthy and respectful committed relationships,\" regardless if marital status. Furthermore, it is now required to have discussions about all FDA-approved contraceptive methods in preventing pregnancy, including the morning after pill.\n\nIn conclusion now requires that all sex education programs promulgated in the state should\n\n\nSome critics state that young people’s access to CSE is grounded in internationally recognized human rights, which require governments to guarantee the overall protection of health, well-being and dignity, as per the Universal Declaration on Human Rights, and specifically to guarantee the provision of unbiased, scientifically accurate sexuality education.\n\nThese rights are protected by internationally ratified treaties, and lack of access to sexual and reproductive health (SRH) education remains a barrier to complying with the obligations to ensure the rights to life, health, non-discrimination and information, a view that has been supported by the Statements of the Committee on the Rights of the Child, the Convention on the Elimination of all Forms of Discrimination Against Women (CEDAW) Committee, and the Committee on Economic, Social and Cultural Rights.\n\nThe commitment of individual states to realizing these rights has been reaffirmed by the international community, in particular the Commission on Population and Development (CPD), which – in its resolutions 2009/12 and 2012/13 – called on governments to provide young people with comprehensive education on human sexuality, SRH and gender equality.\n\nOther analysis show that comprehensive sex education is not an international right nor a human right because it not clearly stated in either a treaty nor custom. By international law, states are required to provide access to information and education about reproductive health, but this does not require a sex education curriculum. It may take different forms such as mandating that local school districts create a system for providing information to students, or mandating that health clinics and practitioners dispense information to patients.\n\nAs CSE gains momentum and interest at international, regional and national levels, governments are increasingly putting in place measures to scale-up their delivery of some form of life skills-based sexuality education, as well as seeking guidance on best practice, particularly regarding placement within the school curriculum. Sexuality education may be delivered as a stand-alone subject or integrated across relevant subjects within the school curricula. These options have direct implications for implementation, including teacher training, the ease of evaluating and revising curricula, the likelihood of curricula being delivered, and the methods through which it is delivered.\n\nWithin countries, choices about implementing integrated or stand-alone sexuality education are typically linked to national policies and overall organization of the curricula. The evidence base on the effectiveness of stand-alone vs. integrated sexuality education programming is still limited. However, there are discernible differences for policy-makers to consider when deciding the position of CSE within the curriculum.\n\nAs a stand-alone subject, sexuality education is set apart from the rest of the curriculum, whether on its own or within a broader stand-alone health and life skills curriculum. This makes it more vulnerable to potentially being sacrificed due to time and budget constraints, since school curricula are typically overcrowded.\n\nHowever, a stand-alone curriculum also presents opportunities for specialized teacher training pathways, and the use of non-formal teaching methodologies that aim to build learners’ critical thinking skills. The pedagogical approaches promoted through sexuality education – such as learner-centred methodologies, development of skills and values, group learning and peer engagement – are increasingly being recognized as transformative approaches that impact on learning and education more widely. As a standalone subject, it is also significantly easier to monitor, which is crucial in terms of evaluating the effectiveness of programming, and revising curricula where it is not delivering the desired learning outcomes.\n\nWhen sexuality education is integrated or infused, it is mainstreamed across a number of subject areas, such as biology, social studies, home economics or religious studies. While this model may reduce pressure on an overcrowded curriculum, it is difficult to monitor or evaluate, and may limit teaching methodologies to traditional approaches.\n\nApart from the different teaching methods, termiology also differs. Abortion, homosexuality, abstinence have connotations and definitions that vary state. For example, the word \"abstinence\" may refer to disengaging from all forms of sexual activities until marriage or may refer to only disengaging from sexual intercourse. Furthermore, the degree of sexual activity that \"abstinence\" connotates is often unclear, because sexual behavior that is not sexual intercourse may or may not be included in its definition. As a result, students are left confused about what activities are risky and teachers do not know what they can and cannot teach.\n\nThe term \"comprehensive,\" is also falls on spectrum, therefore can be considered an umbrella term. CSE means something radical for some institutions while it can mean something moderate and even conservative for others.\n\nAccording to the Sexuality Information and Education Council of the United States (SIECUS), the guidelines for comprehensive sexuality education are as follows:\n\nJust as teaching methods and curricula vary by state, excusal from sex education also varies by state. States may have with an opt out or opt in produce. In some states, students can opt out of receiving sexual education without specifying a particular reason. In other states, students can only opt out for religious or moral reasons. In an opt-in provision, parents must actively agree to allow their children to receive sex education prior to the start of the sexual education.\n\nSince 1997, the amount of sexual content on TV has nearly doubled in the United States. Additionally, a study done in 2008 showed that nearly 40% of popular music lyrics contained sexual references which were often sexually degrading. These lyrics were also often accompanied with mentions of other risk behaviors, such as substance use and violence. \n\nTeens (ages 13-15) in the United States, use entertainment media as their top source for education in regards to sexuality and sexual health. Additionally, a study found that 15-19 year olds in the U.S use media far more than parents or schools to obtain information about birth control. Some studies have found that, \"very few teen television shows mention any of the responsibilities or risks (e.g., using contraception, pregnancy, STIs) associated with sex and almost none of the shows with sexual content include precaution, prevention, or negative outcomes as the primary theme.\" Television shows 16 and Pregnant and its spin-off, Teen Mom, which first aired on MTV in 2009 received major disapproval from some parents as they thought the shows glamorized teen pregnancy and motherhood. However, 16 and Pregnant actually led to a 4.3 percent reduction in teen pregnancy, mostly as a result of increased contraceptive use. In contrast, other data shows that exposure to high levels of sexual content on the television causes adolescents to have twice the risk of becoming pregnant in the following 3 years, compared to those who were exposed to low levels.\n\nThe film Mean Girls, directed by Mark Waters shed light on the state sex education in some parts of the United States. In the film the health instructor states, \"At your age, you're going to have a lot of urges. You're going to want to take off your clothes and touch each other. But if you do touch each other, you will get chlamydia and die.\" This line is meant to be satirical, but it illustrates common flaws within sex education in the U.S. It depicts simplistic descriptions of sexual activity and implementation of fear without any legitimate basis.\n\nComprehensive sex education is the main topic in the documentary \"The Education of Shelby Knox\" released in 2005 about Lubbock, Texas, which has one of the highest teen pregnancy and STD rates in the nation. The \"solution\" to which is a strict abstinence-only sex education curriculum in the public schools and a conservative preacher who urges kids to pledge abstinence until marriage.\n\nIn 2013, \"How to Lose Your Virginity\" was released, a documentary that questioned the effectiveness of the abstinence-only sex education movement and observed how sexuality continues to define a young woman's morality and self-worth. The meaning and necessity of virginity as a social construct is also examined through narration and interviews with notable sexuality experts, such as former Surgeon General Dr. Joycelyn Elders, \"Scarleteen\" creator and editor Heather Corinna, historian Hanne Blank, author Jessica Valenti, and comprehensive sex education advocate Shelby Knox.\n\nNot only have films portrayed sex education, but so has social media. Platforms such as YouTube, Facebook, Vine, and others are used as a tool to uplift the narratives of marginalized communities such as persons of color and LGBTQIA+ persons in hopes to \"strengthen sexual health equity for all.\"\n\nAs a result of the mass amount of sex content in media, media literacy education (MLE) has emerged. It was created to address the influence of unhealthy media messages on risky health decisions, such as intention to use substances, body image issues, and eating disorders. A study analyzed the effectiveness of a teacher-led MLE program, called Media Aware Sexual Health (MASH), which provides students with accurate health information and teaches them how to apply that information to critical analysis of media messages. This comprehensive sex education resulted in increased intentions to talk to a parent, partner and medical professional prior to sexual activity, and intentions for condom use.\n\nDue to knowledge gaps in most sex education curricula for teens, free online resources like Sex, Etc. and teensource.org have been created to promote comprehensive, inclusive sex education for teenagers.\n\n"}
{"id": "154502", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=154502", "title": "Diabetes mellitus type 2", "text": "Diabetes mellitus type 2\n\nDiabetes mellitus type 2 (also known as type 2 diabetes) is a long-term metabolic disorder that is characterized by high blood sugar, insulin resistance, and relative lack of insulin. Common symptoms include increased thirst, frequent urination, and unexplained weight loss. Symptoms may also include increased hunger, feeling tired, and sores that do not heal. Often symptoms come on slowly. Long-term complications from high blood sugar include heart disease, strokes, diabetic retinopathy which can result in blindness, kidney failure, and poor blood flow in the limbs which may lead to amputations. The sudden onset of hyperosmolar hyperglycemic state may occur; however, ketoacidosis is uncommon.\nType 2 diabetes primarily occurs as a result of obesity and lack of exercise. Some people are more genetically at risk than others. Type 2 diabetes makes up about 90% of cases of diabetes, with the other 10% due primarily to diabetes mellitus type 1 and gestational diabetes. In diabetes mellitus type 1 there is a lower total level of insulin to control blood glucose, due to an autoimmune induced loss of insulin-producing beta cells in the pancreas. Diagnosis of diabetes is by blood tests such as fasting plasma glucose, oral glucose tolerance test, or glycated hemoglobin (A1C).\nType 2 diabetes is partly preventable by staying a normal weight, exercising regularly, and eating properly. Treatment involves exercise and dietary changes. If blood sugar levels are not adequately lowered, the medication metformin is typically recommended. Many people may eventually also require insulin injections. In those on insulin, routinely checking blood sugar levels is advised; however, this may not be needed in those taking pills. Bariatric surgery often improves diabetes in those who are obese.\nRates of type 2 diabetes have increased markedly since 1960 in parallel with obesity. As of 2015 there were approximately 392 million people diagnosed with the disease compared to around 30 million in 1985. Typically it begins in middle or older age, although rates of type 2 diabetes are increasing in young people. Type 2 diabetes is associated with a ten-year-shorter life expectancy. Diabetes was one of the first diseases described. The importance of insulin in the disease was determined in the 1920s.\n\nThe classic symptoms of diabetes are polyuria (frequent urination), polydipsia (increased thirst), polyphagia (increased hunger), and weight loss. Other symptoms that are commonly present at diagnosis include a history of blurred vision, itchiness, peripheral neuropathy, recurrent vaginal infections, and fatigue. Many people, however, have no symptoms during the first few years and are diagnosed on routine testing. A small number of people with type 2 diabetes mellitus can develop a hyperosmolar hyperglycemic state (a condition of very high blood sugar associated with a decreased level of consciousness and low blood pressure).\n\nType 2 diabetes is typically a chronic disease associated with a ten-year-shorter life expectancy. This is partly due to a number of complications with which it is associated, including: two to four times the risk of cardiovascular disease, including ischemic heart disease and stroke; a 20-fold increase in lower limb amputations, and increased rates of hospitalizations. In the developed world, and increasingly elsewhere, type 2 diabetes is the largest cause of nontraumatic blindness and kidney failure. It has also been associated with an increased risk of cognitive dysfunction and dementia through disease processes such as Alzheimer's disease and vascular dementia. Other complications include acanthosis nigricans, sexual dysfunction, and frequent infections.\n\nThe development of type 2 diabetes is caused by a combination of lifestyle and genetic factors. While some of these factors are under personal control, such as diet and obesity, other factors are not, such as increasing age, female gender, and genetics. A lack of sleep has been linked to type 2 diabetes. This is believed to act through its effect on metabolism. The nutritional status of a mother during fetal development may also play a role, with one proposed mechanism being that of DNA methylation. The intestinal bacteria \"Prevotella copri\" and \"Bacteroides vulgatus\" have been connected with type 2 diabetes.\n\nLifestyle factors are important to the development of type 2 diabetes, including obesity and being overweight (defined by a body mass index of greater than 25), lack of physical activity, poor diet, stress, and urbanization. Excess body fat is associated with 30% of cases in those of Chinese and Japanese descent, 60–80% of cases in those of European and African descent, and 100% of cases in Pima Indians and Pacific Islanders. Among those who are not obese, a high waist–hip ratio is often present. Smoking appears to increase the risk of type 2 diabetes mellitus.\n\nDietary factors also influence the risk of developing type 2 diabetes. Consumption of sugar-sweetened drinks in excess is associated with an increased risk. The type of fats in the diet are important, with saturated fats and trans fatty acids increasing the risk, and polyunsaturated and monounsaturated fat decreasing the risk. Eating a lot of white rice appears to play a role in increasing risk. A lack of exercise is believed to cause 7% of cases. Persistent organic pollutants may play a role.\n\nMost cases of diabetes involve many genes, with each being a small contributor to an increased probability of becoming a type 2 diabetic. If one identical twin has diabetes, the chance of the other developing diabetes within his lifetime is greater than 90%, while the rate for nonidentical siblings is 25–50%. As of 2011, more than 36 genes had been found that contribute to the risk of type 2 diabetes. All of these genes together still only account for 10% of the total heritable component of the disease. The TCF7L2 allele, for example, increases the risk of developing diabetes by 1.5 times and is the greatest risk of the common genetic variants. Most of the genes linked to diabetes are involved in beta cell functions.\n\nThere are a number of rare cases of diabetes that arise due to an abnormality in a single gene (known as monogenic forms of diabetes or \"other specific types of diabetes\"). These include maturity onset diabetes of the young (MODY), Donohue syndrome, and Rabson–Mendenhall syndrome, among others. Maturity onset diabetes of the young constitute 1–5% of all cases of diabetes in young people.\n\nThere are a number of medications and other health problems that can predispose to diabetes. Some of the medications include: glucocorticoids, thiazides, beta blockers, atypical antipsychotics, and statins. Those who have previously had gestational diabetes are at a higher risk of developing type 2 diabetes. Other health problems that are associated include: acromegaly, Cushing's syndrome, hyperthyroidism, pheochromocytoma, and certain cancers such as glucagonomas. Testosterone deficiency is also associated with type 2 diabetes.\n\nType 2 diabetes is due to insufficient insulin production from beta cells in the setting of insulin resistance. Insulin resistance, which is the inability of cells to respond adequately to normal levels of insulin, occurs primarily within the muscles, liver, and fat tissue. In the liver, insulin normally suppresses glucose release. However, in the setting of insulin resistance, the liver inappropriately releases glucose into the blood. The proportion of insulin resistance versus beta cell dysfunction differs among individuals, with some having primarily insulin resistance and only a minor defect in insulin secretion and others with slight insulin resistance and primarily a lack of insulin secretion.\n\nOther potentially important mechanisms associated with type 2 diabetes and insulin resistance include: increased breakdown of lipids within fat cells, resistance to and lack of incretin, high glucagon levels in the blood, increased retention of salt and water by the kidneys, and inappropriate regulation of metabolism by the central nervous system. However, not all people with insulin resistance develop diabetes, since an impairment of insulin secretion by pancreatic beta cells is also required.\n\nThe World Health Organization definition of diabetes (both type 1 and type 2) is for a single raised glucose reading with symptoms, otherwise raised values on two occasions, of either:\nA random blood sugar of greater than 11.1 mmol/l (200 mg/dl) in association with typical symptoms or a glycated hemoglobin (HbA) of ≥ 48 mmol/mol (≥ 6.5 DCCT %) is another method of diagnosing diabetes. In 2009 an International Expert Committee that included representatives of the American Diabetes Association (ADA), the International Diabetes Federation (IDF), and the European Association for the Study of Diabetes (EASD) recommended that a threshold of ≥ 48 mmol/mol (≥ 6.5 DCCT %) should be used to diagnose diabetes. This recommendation was adopted by the American Diabetes Association in 2010. Positive tests should be repeated unless the person presents with typical symptoms and blood sugars >11.1 mmol/l (>200 mg/dl).\n\nThreshold for diagnosis of diabetes is based on the relationship between results of glucose tolerance tests, fasting glucose or HbA and complications such as retinal problems. A fasting or random blood sugar is preferred over the glucose tolerance test, as they are more convenient for people. HbA has the advantages that fasting is not required and results are more stable but has the disadvantage that the test is more costly than measurement of blood glucose. It is estimated that 20% of people with diabetes in the United States do not realize that they have the disease.\n\nDiabetes mellitus type 2 is characterized by high blood glucose in the context of insulin resistance and relative insulin deficiency. This is in contrast to diabetes mellitus type 1 in which there is an absolute insulin deficiency due to destruction of islet cells in the pancreas and gestational diabetes mellitus that is a new onset of high blood sugars associated with pregnancy. Type 1 and type 2 diabetes can typically be distinguished based on the presenting circumstances. If the diagnosis is in doubt antibody testing may be useful to confirm type 1 diabetes and C-peptide levels may be useful to confirm type 2 diabetes, with C-peptide levels normal or high in type 2 diabetes, but low in type 1 diabetes.\n\nNo major organization recommends universal screening for diabetes as there is no evidence that such a program improve outcomes. Screening is recommended by the United States Preventive Services Task Force (USPSTF) in adults without symptoms whose blood pressure is greater than 135/80 mmHg. For those whose blood pressure is less, the evidence is insufficient to recommend for or against screening. There is no evidence that it changes the risk of death in this group of people. They also recommend screening among those who are overweight and between the ages of 40 and 70.\n\nThe World Health Organization recommends testing those groups at high risk and in 2014 the USPSTF is considering a similar recommendation. High-risk groups in the United States include: those over 45 years old; those with a first degree relative with diabetes; some ethnic groups, including Hispanics, African-Americans, and Native-Americans; a history of gestational diabetes; polycystic ovary syndrome; excess weight; and conditions associated with metabolic syndrome. The American Diabetes Association recommends screening those who have a BMI over 25 (in people of Asian descent screening is recommended for a BMI over 23).\n\nOnset of type 2 diabetes can be delayed or prevented through proper nutrition and regular exercise. Intensive lifestyle measures may reduce the risk by over half. The benefit of exercise occurs regardless of the person's initial weight or subsequent weight loss. High levels of physical activity reduce the risk of diabetes by about 28%. Evidence for the benefit of dietary changes alone, however, is limited, with some evidence for a diet high in green leafy vegetables and some for limiting the intake of sugary drinks. In those with impaired glucose tolerance, diet and exercise either alone or in combination with metformin or acarbose may decrease the risk of developing diabetes. Lifestyle interventions are more effective than metformin. A 2017 review found that, long term, lifestyle changes decreased the risk by 28%, while medication does not reduce risk after withdrawal. While low vitamin D levels are associated with an increased risk of diabetes, correcting the levels by supplementing vitamin D3 does not improve that risk.\n\nManagement of type 2 diabetes focuses on lifestyle interventions, lowering other cardiovascular risk factors, and maintaining blood glucose levels in the normal range. Self-monitoring of blood glucose for people with newly diagnosed type 2 diabetes may be used in combination with education, however the benefit of self monitoring in those not using multi-dose insulin is questionable. In those who do not want to measure blood levels, measuring urine levels may be done. Managing other cardiovascular risk factors, such as hypertension, high cholesterol, and microalbuminuria, improves a person's life expectancy. Decreasing the systolic blood pressure to less than 140 mmHg is associated with a lower risk of death and better outcomes. Intensive blood pressure management (less than 130/80 mmHg) as opposed to standard blood pressure management (less than 140-160 mmHg systolic to 85–100 mmHg diastolic) results in a slight decrease in stroke risk but no effect on overall risk of death.\n\nIntensive blood sugar lowering (HbA<6%) as opposed to standard blood sugar lowering (HbA of 7–7.9%) does not appear to change mortality. The goal of treatment is typically an HbA of 7 to 8% or a fasting glucose of less than 7.2 mmol/L (130 mg/dl); however these goals may be changed after professional clinical consultation, taking into account particular risks of hypoglycemia and life expectancy. Despite guidelines recommending that intensive blood sugar control be based on balancing immediate harms with long-term benefits, many people – for example people with a life expectancy of less than nine years who will not benefit, are over-treated.\n\nIt is recommended that all people with type 2 diabetes get regular eye examination. There is weak evidence suggesting that treating gum disease by scaling and root planing may result in a small short-term improvement in blood sugar levels for people with diabetes. There is no evidence to suggest that this improvement in blood sugar levels is maintained longer than 4 months. There is also not enough evidence to determine if medications to treat gum disease are effective at lowering blood sugar levels.\n\nA proper diet and exercise are the foundations of diabetic care, with a greater amount of exercise yielding better results. Exercise improves blood sugar control, decreases body fat content and decreases blood lipid levels, and these effects are evident even without weight loss. Aerobic exercise leads to a decrease in HbA and improved insulin sensitivity. Resistance training is also useful and the combination of both types of exercise may be most effective.\n\nA diabetic diet that promotes weight loss is important. While the best diet type to achieve this is controversial, a low glycemic index diet or low carbohydrate diet has been found to improve blood sugar control. A very low calorie diet, begun shortly after the onset of type 2 diabetes, can result in remission of the condition.\n\nVegetarian diets in general have been related to lower diabetes risk, but do not offer advantages compared with diets which allow moderate amounts of animal products. There is not enough evidence to suggest that cinnamon improves blood sugar levels in people with type 2 diabetes.\n\nCulturally appropriate education may help people with type 2 diabetes control their blood sugar levels, for up to 24 months. If changes in lifestyle in those with mild diabetes has not resulted in improved blood sugars within six weeks, medications should then be considered. There is not enough evidence to determine if lifestyle interventions affect mortality in those who already have DM2.\n\nThere are several classes of anti-diabetic medications available. Metformin is generally recommended as a first line treatment as there is some evidence that it decreases mortality; however, this conclusion is questioned. Metformin should not be used in those with severe kidney or liver problems.\n\nA second oral agent of another class or insulin may be added if metformin is not sufficient after three months. Other classes of medications include: sulfonylureas, thiazolidinediones, dipeptidyl peptidase-4 inhibitors, SGLT2 inhibitors, and glucagon-like peptide-1 analogs. As of 2015 there was no significant difference between these agents. A 2018 review found that SGLT2 inhibitors may be better than glucagon-like peptide-1 analogs or dipeptidyl peptidase-4 inhibitors.\n\nRosiglitazone, a thiazolidinedione, has not been found to improve long-term outcomes even though it improves blood sugar levels. Additionally it is associated with increased rates of heart disease and death. Angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors (ACEIs) prevent kidney disease and improve outcomes in those with diabetes. The similar medications angiotensin receptor blockers (ARBs) do not. A 2016 review recommended treating to a systolic blood pressure of 140 to 150 mmHg.\n\nInjections of insulin may either be added to oral medication or used alone. Most people do not initially need insulin. When it is used, a long-acting formulation is typically added at night, with oral medications being continued. Doses are then increased to effect (blood sugar levels being well controlled). When nightly insulin is insufficient, twice daily insulin may achieve better control. The long acting insulins glargine and detemir are equally safe and effective, and do not appear much better than neutral protamine Hagedorn (NPH) insulin, but as they are significantly more expensive, they are not cost effective as of 2010. In those who are pregnant insulin is generally the treatment of choice.\n\nVitamin D supplementation to people with type 2 diabetes may improve markers of insulin resistance and HbA1c.\n\nWeight loss surgery in those who are obese is an effective measure to treat diabetes. Many are able to maintain normal blood sugar levels with little or no medication following surgery and long-term mortality is decreased. There however is some short-term mortality risk of less than 1% from the surgery. The body mass index cutoffs for when surgery is appropriate are not yet clear. It is recommended that this option be considered in those who are unable to get both their weight and blood sugar under control.\n\nGlobally as of 2015 it was estimated that there were 392 million people with type 2 diabetes making up about 90% of diabetes cases. This is equivalent to about 6% of the world's population. Diabetes is common both in the developed and the developing world. It remains uncommon, however, in the least developed countries.\n\nWomen seem to be at a greater risk as do certain ethnic groups, such as South Asians, Pacific Islanders, Latinos, and Native Americans. This may be due to enhanced sensitivity to a Western lifestyle in certain ethnic groups. Traditionally considered a disease of adults, type 2 diabetes is increasingly diagnosed in children in parallel with rising obesity rates. Type 2 diabetes is now diagnosed as frequently as type 1 diabetes in teenagers in the United States.\n\nRates of diabetes in 1985 were estimated at 30 million, increasing to 135 million in 1995 and 217 million in 2005. This increase is believed to be primarily due to the global population aging, a decrease in exercise, and increasing rates of obesity. The five countries with the greatest number of people with diabetes as of 2000 are India having 31.7 million, China 20.8 million, the United States 17.7 million, Indonesia 8.4 million, and Japan 6.8 million. It is recognized as a global epidemic by the World Health Organization.\n\nDiabetes is one of the first diseases described with an Egyptian manuscript from c. 1500 BCE mentioning \"too great emptying of the urine.\" The first described cases are believed to be of type 1 diabetes. Indian physicians around the same time identified the disease and classified it as \"madhumeha\" or \"honey urine\" noting that the urine would attract ants. The term \"diabetes\" or \"to pass through\" was first used in 230 BCE by the Greek Apollonius Of Memphis. The disease was rare during the time of the Roman empire with Galen commenting that he had only seen two cases during his career.\n\nType 1 and type 2 diabetes were identified as separate conditions for the first time by the Indian physicians Sushruta and Charaka in 400–500 AD with type 1 associated with youth and type 2 with being overweight. The term \"mellitus\" or \"from honey\" was added by the Briton John Rolle in the late 1700s to separate the condition from diabetes insipidus which is also associated with frequent urination. Effective treatment was not developed until the early part of the 20th century when the Canadians Frederick Banting and Charles Best discovered insulin in 1921 and 1922. This was followed by the development of the long acting NPH insulin in the 1940s.\n\n"}
{"id": "33900762", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33900762", "title": "Eating disorders in Chinese women", "text": "Eating disorders in Chinese women\n\nBulimia nervosa and anorexia nervosa are prevalent in Western countries, such as the United States, but recent studies have shown that they are also on the rise in Asian countries such as China. There are several reasons for this, such as, Chinese culture and westernization. Researchers are looking into these causes, so they can know how to treat and prevent them.\n\nEating disorders, once thought prevalent only in Western cultures such as that of the United States, are now seen in Chinese women. This is surprising as, in the past, it was highly unlikely. Their body shapes, including their round faces with mild plumpness, showed their beauty and healthy living. Thus, once thought unusual in China, body dissatisfaction and eating disorders are almost as common now as they are in Western countries.\n\nIn China, many traditional people hold to a collectivistic cultural tradition (or Confucianism). They learn to conform as an interdependent whole rather than as unique independent beings. This dependency starts in the family, where a parent to child hierarchy is enforced and children are taught to be submissive and obedient. This can cause feelings of rebellion in the child which is why some of them may turn to eating disorders. The child wants to have some control, but they also do not want to disrespect their parents by pursuing autonomy, and so restricting food or binging and purging is, in a way, their way of making decisions. \nSeveral studies confirmed that cultural factors resulting in rebelliousness caused eating disorder symptoms. Ulrike Schmidt, a professor in eating disorders, studied three patients with Chinese heritage who participated in binging and purging behaviours. Her first patient, patient A, grew up in England. As a teenager, patient As parents expected her to help them with their business since they did not speak fluent English. On top of this she gave them most of her earnings from her job, and she was expected to participate in family life. Dr. Schmidt found that her bulimia symptoms came about because she was seeking independence, and yet she wanted to remain obedient to her parents. This conclusion supports the idea that loyalty versus independence played a conflicting role that lead to eating disorder symptoms. \nMoreover, Dr. Schmidt also concluded that patient As mother nurtured her when she started losing weight. As a result, patient A exploited this in order to make up the deprivations from her childhood. This correlation between conflicting feelings of growing up or remaining young is the other studied cause of why eating disorders arise in young Chinese women. Joyce L. C. did a study in Shenzhen and she reported that some Chinese woman struggle with growing up and so they turn to eating disorders as a control. One such girl relates her feelings when she said, “I like to be a little girl. In being an adult, you need to care about peoples feelings and interact with others. They tend to disappoint me. I met two senior students in college and they seemed to treat me well at first. However, suddenly they had become unfriendly and hostile to me. I felt being betrayed. I hid myself in my dormitory, the only place where I felt safe and secure. I indulged in binge eating and vomiting. I dont wish to be hurt by them again.” She turns to bulimia as a way of hiding from reality and indulging herself. Because of societal norms in China, it is seen that some women are turning to eating disorders as a way out from their stress and worry.\n\nEating disorders in China were primarily thought to have come about because of the Westernization of their cities through the media. Western media idolizes thin, beautiful woman. This unrealistic standard entices women to lose weight through dieting, exercising, and if necessary surgery, so as to meet it. Because of the body dissatisfaction that this standard causes it can lead to eating disorders.\n\nMany researchers studied westernization as a cause of eating disorders in Chinese women and it is one of the main theories believed today. Lee and Lee, in a study of different levels of socioeconomic development in three Chinese communities, compared the aptitude of disordered eating among females in high school. He found that females in the higher income cities, even though they were slimmer than the other females in the less modernized cities, desired a lower body mass index (BMI), had greater levels of body dissatisfaction, and overall had more symptoms that relate to risk factors for eating disorders. Thus, from their results, westernization is a probable cause of increased eating disorders. However, some studies suggest other factors account for higher eating disorders in Chinese woman, so even though western media may be one of the causes, it may not be the primary one.\n\n'Little fatty' was once a term of endearment for children in China, but today dieting is popular and thinness is the ideal.\n\nOne of the other factors scientist have come up with that may contribute to higher eating disorders in Chinese woman, are sociocultural factors that include gender roles, economic opportunities, religious values, and the cultural objectification of women. When disruptive social change comes about, women are more likely to have disordered eating. Naomi Wolf observed this when she said, “The more legal and material hindrances women have broken through, the more strictly and heavily and cruelly images of female beauty have come to weigh upon us.” As women seek equality, the extreme of ideal body shape arise.\n\nThis is seen in many cases throughout history in Western and non—Western cultures. For example, in America, during the 1920s and the 1970s when the role of women were changed the most, “models in US fashion magazines were the most slender and least curvaceous.” In contrast to the Western culture, a study showed that Korean woman, since the economic, social, and political changes in the 1980s to 2000, are more dissatisfied with their bodies (Tsai, 2000). In another study, Jaehee Jung and Gordon B. Forbes, found that among University female students from Korea and the United States, Koreans had greater eating disorder risk factors than the Americans. They concluded this was because of the more recent social changes for woman in Korea. Thus, because both groups of women were equally exposed to Western media, this theory is a contender with the westernization theory as a cause of higher eating disorders.\n\nMany people have difficulty seeking treatment in China because receiving help from a therapist is personally looked down on as a mark against ones dignity because if a person needs help, then they cannot help themselves and that is shameful. Thus, reaching out to those who have eating disorders or eating disorder symptoms may be difficult. Moreover, most patients with eating disorders will initially find it difficult to find the motivation to overcome their eating disorder because they are not sure whether they want to change, and yet they know that they need to because it will help them in their lifestyles. When a therapist starts treating a new patient they need to make sure to connect with the patient and create a professional, but helpful client to therapist bond because that connection will help the patient.\n\nA common method for helping eating disordered persons is to involve the family. Researchers found that in Western places, like England, family therapy was useful and effective. However, in China, because of the difference in culture, some underage patients refuse help and they will not trust the therapist because they see it as another way of their parents controlling them. In a case study done by Joyce L. C. Ma, she was treating a 17-year-old girl who would not accept her help. The girl said, “Its my fathers session, not my session. My father has a problem and I dont have any. He arranged everything for me. He did too much. I am sick of his over–interference in my life. I knew the sessions were his arrangement too. I dislike being at his disposal any more. So I refuse to meet you.” In order for the patient to receive help, the therapist needs to create a bond with them first, so that they can voice their needs and the cause of their disorder. \nFamily therapy in China has also proven beneficial because families can talk about issues in the family. This in turn strengthens the patient and creates a foundation for them to hold onto. Accomplishing this kind of therapeutic bond though is the difficult part for some Chinese people because of the collectivistic culture in which they live in where the children are afraid to speak up against their parents because they do not want to bring shame upon them. Once the therapist can overcome this though, overcoming their eating disorder will be much easier than if it were individual therapy.\n\n"}
{"id": "46414760", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46414760", "title": "Ed Montgomery (musician)", "text": "Ed Montgomery (musician)\n\nEdward Lee \"Ed\" Montgomery (born February 1, 1952) is an American author, motivational speaker, gospel musician, and pianist, who is the founder and pastor of Abundant Life Center For Dynamic Living in Houston, Texas. \n\nHe started his music career in 2000 with the release of, \"Show Me the Money\", by his own label, Ablife Records. The album, \"I Still Believe\", was released in 2000, again by Ablife Records. This album would chart on two \"Billboard\" charts Gospel Albums and Independent Albums. His 2002 album,\"Total Live Experience\", was released by Ablife Records. The album charted on the two aforementioned charts, along with placing on the Heatseekers Albums chart.\n\nEd Montgomery is also the author of several books, including Heaven in Your Heart: And in Your Pocket Too (Charisma Media, December 1998), Breaking the Spirit of Poverty (Charisma House, March 1999)and When Heaven Is Silent (Creation House, June 2002), all available on Amazon.\n\nMontgomery was born in Cleveland, Ohio, on February 1, 1952, as Edward Lee Montgomery, the son of James Edward Montgomery and Betty Lou Montgomery, yet he was reared by his grandmother, Iola Freeman, in the church at Temple Baptist Church, where he acquired the ability to play the piano.\n\nHis music career commenced in 2000, with the album, \"Show Me the Money\", that was released on January 4, 2000, by his own label Ablife Record. He released, \"I Still Believe\", on November 20, 2000, by Ablife Records, and this placed on two \"Billboard\" charts Gospel Albums at No. 11 and Independent Albums at No. 41. The 2002 album, \"Total Live Experience\", was released on July 23, 2002 by Ablife Records, and this charted on the two aforementioned charts at Nos. 7 and 22 respectively, which it also got a placement on the Heatseekers Albums chart at No. 34..\n\nMontgomery is married to Dr. Saundra Elaine Montgomery, a Clevelander in her own right, and together they reside in Houston, Texas, where they are the pastors of Abundant Life Center (Abundant Life Cathedral). They have three children: two sons, Edward Lee Montgomery II, Simeon Raphael Montgomery, and a daughter, Angela Renee Montgomery, who died of cancer at age 14.\n\n"}
{"id": "602960", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=602960", "title": "Food processing", "text": "Food processing\n\nFood processing is the transformation of agricultural products into food, or of one form of food into other forms. Food processing includes many forms of processing foods, from grinding grain to make raw flour to home cooking to complex industrial methods used to make convenience foods.\n\nPrimary food processing is necessary to make most foods edible, and secondary food processing turns the ingredients into familiar foods, such as bread.\n\nTertiary food processing has been criticized for promoting overnutrition and obesity, containing too much sugar and salt, too little fiber, and otherwise being unhealthful.\n\nPrimary food processing turns agricultural products, such as raw wheat kernels or livestock, into something that can eventually be eaten. This category includes ingredients that are produced by ancient processes such as drying, threshing, winnowing, and milling grain, shelling nuts, and butchering animals for meat. It also includes deboning and cutting meat, freezing and smoking fish and meat, extracting and filtering oils, canning food, preserving food through food irradiation, and candling eggs, as well as homogenizing and pasteurizing milk. \n\nContamination and spoilage problems in primary food processing can lead to significant public health threats, as the resulting foods are used so widely. However, many forms of processing contribute to improved food safety and longer shelf life before the food spoils. Commercial food processing uses control systems such as hazard analysis and critical control points (HACCP) and failure mode and effects analysis (FMEA) to reduce the risk of harm.\n\nSecondary food processing is the everyday process of creating food from ingredients that are ready to use. Baking bread, regardless of whether it is made at home, in a small bakery, or in a large factory, is an example of secondary food processing. Fermenting fish and making wine, beer, and other alcoholic products are traditional forms of secondary food processing. Sausages are a common form of secondary processed meat, formed by comminution (grinding) of meat that has already undergone primary processing.\n\nTertiary food processing is the commercial production of what is commonly called processed food. These are ready-to-eat or heat-and-serve foods, such as TV dinners and re-heated airline meals. \n\nFood processing dates back to the prehistoric ages when crude processing incorporated fermenting, sun drying, preserving with salt, and various types of cooking (such as roasting, smoking, steaming, and oven baking), Such basic food processing involved chemical enzymatic changes to the basic structure of food in its natural form, as well served to build a barrier against surface microbial activity that caused rapid decay. Salt-preservation was especially common for foods that constituted warrior and sailors' diets until the introduction of canning methods. Evidence for the existence of these methods can be found in the writings of the ancient Greek, Chaldean, Egyptian and Roman civilizations as well as archaeological evidence from Europe, North and South America and Asia. These tried and tested processing techniques remained essentially the same until the advent of the industrial revolution. Examples of ready-meals also date back to before the preindustrial revolution, and include dishes such as Cornish pasty and Haggis. Both during ancient times and today in modern society these are considered processed foods.\n\nModern food processing technology developed in the 19th and 20th centuries was developed in a large part to serve military needs. In 1809 Nicolas Appert invented a hermetic bottling technique that would preserve food for French troops which ultimately contributed to the development of tinning, and subsequently canning by Peter Durand in 1810. Although initially expensive and somewhat hazardous due to the lead used in cans, canned goods would later become a staple around the world. Pasteurization, discovered by Louis Pasteur in 1864, improved the quality and safety of preserved foods and introduced the wine, beer, and milk preservation.\nIn the 20th century, World War II, the space race and the rising consumer society in developed countries contributed to the growth of food processing with such advances as spray drying, evaporation, juice concentrates, freeze drying and the introduction of artificial sweeteners, colouring agents, and such preservatives as sodium benzoate. In the late 20th century, products such as dried instant soups, reconstituted fruits and juices, and self cooking meals such as MRE food ration were developed. By the 20th century, automatic appliances like microwave oven, blender, and rotimatic paved way for convenience cooking.\n\nIn western Europe and North America, the second half of the 20th century witnessed a rise in the pursuit of convenience. Food processing companies marketed their products especially towards middle-class working wives and mothers. Frozen foods (often credited to Clarence Birdseye) found their success in sales of juice concentrates and \"TV dinners\". Processors utilised the perceived value of time to appeal to the postwar population, and this same appeal contributes to the success of convenience foods today.\n\nBenefits of food processing include toxin removal, preservation, easing marketing and distribution tasks, and increasing food consistency. In addition, it increases yearly availability of many foods, enables transportation of delicate perishable foods across long distances and makes many kinds of foods safe to eat by de-activating spoilage and pathogenic micro-organisms. Modern supermarkets would not exist without modern food processing techniques, and long voyages would not be possible.\n\nProcessed foods are usually less susceptible to early spoilage than fresh foods and are better suited for long-distance transportation from the source to the consumer. When they were first introduced, some processed foods helped to alleviate food shortages and improved the overall nutrition of populations as it made many new foods available to the masses.\n\nProcessing can also reduce the incidence of foodborne disease. Fresh materials, such as fresh produce and raw meats, are more likely to harbour pathogenic micro-organisms (e.g. Salmonella) capable of causing serious illnesses.\n\nThe extremely varied modern diet is only truly possible on a wide scale because of food processing. Transportation of more exotic foods, as well as the elimination of much hard labour gives the modern eater easy access to a wide variety of food unimaginable to their ancestors.\n\nThe act of processing can often improve the taste of food significantly.\nMass production of food is much cheaper overall than individual production of meals from raw ingredients. Therefore, a large profit potential exists for the manufacturers and suppliers of processed food products. Individuals may see a benefit in convenience, but rarely see any direct financial cost benefit in using processed food as compared to home preparation.\n\nProcessed food freed people from the large amount of time involved in preparing and cooking \"natural\" unprocessed foods. The increase in free time allows people much more choice in life style than previously allowed. In many families the adults are working away from home and therefore there is little time for the preparation of food based on fresh ingredients. The food industry offers products that fulfill many different needs: e.g. fully prepared ready meals that can be heated up in the microwave oven within a few minutes.\n\nModern food processing also improves the quality of life for people with allergies, diabetics, and other people who cannot consume some common food elements. Food processing can also add extra nutrients such as vitamins.\n\nProcessing of food can decrease its nutritional density. The amount of nutrients lost depends on the food and processing method. For example, heat destroys vitamin C. Therefore, canned fruits possess less vitamin C than their fresh alternatives. The USDA conducted a study of nutrient retention in 2004, creating a table of foods, levels of preparation, and nutrition.\n\nNew research highlighting the importance to human health of a rich microbial environment in the intestine indicates that abundant food processing (not fermentation of foods) endangers that environment.\n\nUsing some food additives represents another safety concern. The health risks of any given additive vary greatly from person to person; for example using sugar as an additive endangers diabetics. In the European Union, only European Food Safety Authority (EFSA) approved food additives (e.g., sweeteners, preservatives, stabilizers) are permitted at specified levels for use in food products. Approved additives receive an E number (E for Europe), simplifying communication about food additives included in the ingredients' list for all the different languages spoken in the EU. As effects of chemical additives are learned, changes to laws and regulatory practices are made to make such processed foods more safe.\n\nFood processing is typically a mechanical process that utilizes extrusion, large mixing, grinding, chopping and emulsifying equipment in the production process. These processes introduce a number of contamination risks. Such contaminates are left over material from a previous operation, animal or human bodily fluids, microorganisms, nonmetallic and metallic fragments. Further processing of these contaminates will result in downstream equipment failure and the risk of ingestion by the consumer. Example: A mixing bowl or grinder is used over time, metal parts in contact with food will tend to fail and fracture. This type of failure will introduce into the product stream small to large metal contaminants. Further processing of these metal fragments will result in downstream equipment failure and the risk of ingestion by the consumer. Food manufacturers utilize industrial metal detectors to detect and reject automatically any metal fragment. Large food processors will utilize many metal detectors within the processing stream to reduce both damage to processing machinery as well as risk to consumer health.\n\nFood processing does have some benefits, such as making food last longer and making products more convenient. However, there are drawbacks to relying on a lot of heavily processed foods. Whole foods and those that are only minimally processed, like frozen vegetables without any sauce, tend to be more healthy. An unhealthy diet high in fat, added sugar and salt, such as one containing a lot of highly-processed foods, can increase the risk for cancer, type 2 diabetes and heart disease, according to the World Health Organization.\n\nOne of the main sources for sodium in the diet is processed foods. Sodium is added to prevent spoilage, add flavor and improve the texture of these foods. Americans consume an average of 3,436 milligrams of sodium per day, which is way more than the recommended limit of 2,300 milligrams per day for healthy people, and more than twice the limit of 1,500 milligrams per day for those at increased risk for heart disease.\n\nWhile you don't need to limit the sugars found naturally in whole, unprocessed foods like fresh fruit, eating too much added sugar found in many processed foods can increase your risk for heart disease, obesity, cavities and Type 2 diabetes. The American Heart Association recommends women limit added sugars to no more than 100 calories, or 25 grams, and men limit added sugars to no more than 155 calories, or about 38.75 grams, per day. Currently, Americans consume an average of 355 calories from added sugars each day.\n\nProcessing foods often involves nutrient losses, which can make it harder to meet your needs if these nutrients aren't added back through fortification or enrichment. For example, using high heat during processing can cause vitamin C losses. Another example is refined grains, which have less fiber, vitamins and minerals than whole grains. Eating refined grains, such as those found in many processed foods, instead of whole grains may increase your risk for high cholesterol, diabetes and obesity, according to a study published in \"The American Journal of Clinical Nutrition\" in December 2007.\n\nFoods that have undergone processing, including some commercial baked goods, desserts, margarine, frozen pizza, microwave popcorn and coffee creamers, sometimes contain trans fats. This is the most unhealthy type of fat, and may increase your risk for high cholesterol, heart disease and stroke. The 2010 Dietary Guidelines for Americans recommends keeping your trans fat intake as low as possible.\n\nProcessed foods may actually take less energy to digest than whole foods, according to a study published in \"Food & Nutrition Research\" in 2010, meaning you retain more of the calories they contain. Processed foods also tend to be more allergenic than whole foods, according to a June 2004 \"Current Opinion in Allergy and Clinical Immunology\" article. Although the preservatives and other food additives used in many processed foods are generally recognized as safe, a few may cause problems for some individuals, including sulfites, artificial sweeteners, artificial colors and flavors, sodium nitrate, BHA and BHT, olestra, caffeine and monosodium glutamate.\n\nWhen designing processes for the food industry the following performance parameters may be taken into account:\n\nThe rigorous application of industry and government endorsed standards to minimise possible risk and hazards. The international standard adopted is HACCP.\n\n\nFood processing industries and practices include the following:\n\n"}
{"id": "26358328", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26358328", "title": "Grogue", "text": "Grogue\n\nGrogue, also known as grogu or grogo (derived from English \"grog\"), is a Cape Verdean alcoholic beverage, an aguardente made from sugarcane. Its production is fundamentally artisanal, and nearly all the sugarcane is used in the production of grogue. The cane is processed in a press known as a \"trapiche\".\n\nGrogue is the basis for a Cape Verdean cocktail known as \"ponche\", which also includes lime and molasses, comparable to the \"ponche\" of the island of Madeira.\n\nGrogue and sugarcane production are primarily found in Santo Antão (notably Ribeira do Paul and Ribeira da Cruz) and Santiago.\n\nGrogue is also used as a base for medicinal preparations, with the addition of herbs such as common rue, rosemary, or anise. There is also a grogue preparation made with percebes (goose neck barnacles).\n\nGrogue is made by an old traditional way and because of this there are a lot of different qualities on the market. The government of Cabo Verde is now busy with a European company to introduce grogue on the European markets. This will be a fully controlled grogue of the best quality by the name 'Grogue Official'.\n\nIn some tourist locations, caipirinhas are prepared with grogue.\n\n"}
{"id": "4027722", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4027722", "title": "Haffkine Institute", "text": "Haffkine Institute\n\nThe Haffkine Institute for Training, Research and Testing is located in Parel in Mumbai (Bombay), India. It was established on 10 January 1899 by Dr. Waldemar Mordecai Haffkine, as a bacteriology research centre called the \"Plague Research Laboratory\". It now offers various basic and applied bio-medical science services. The Institute opened a museum on its premises in March 2014 to showcase Haffkine's research and developments in microbiology and chart the history of the institute. The Institute received ISO 9001:2008 certification in 2012.\n\nThe Institute now serves as a teaching institution in the field of biomedical sciences and is affiliated to the University of Mumbai for M.Sc (Microbiology, Applied Biology and Organic Chemistry), Ph.D. (Microbiology) and M.D (P.S.M.) degree programs. In addition, the Institute undertakes specialized testing assignments and projects for pharmaceutical and other health-related products. The Institute conducts research in the improvement of the foot-and-mouth disease vaccine, surveillance and microbiological analysis of typhoid, prevalence of drug resistance in bacteria, studies of infections occurring in AIDS patients, and the development of newer chemotherapeutic agents to combat microbial and zoonotic infections.\n\nDr. Haffkine, an orthodox Jewish Ukrainian scientist assigned by the Pasteur Institute to work in India, is recognized as the microbiologist who first developed and used vaccines against cholera and bubonic plague. In October 1896, an epidemic of bubonic plague struck Bombay (now Mumbai) and the government asked Haffkine to help. He embarked upon the development of a vaccine in a makeshift laboratory in a corridor of Grant Medical College. In three months of persistent work (one of his assistants experienced a nervous breakdown, two others quit), a form of vaccine was ready for human trials. On 10 January 1897, Haffkine tested it on himself. The vaccines that Haffkine prepared had remarkable results.\n\nSans Pareil was once the official residence of the Governor of Bombay. This mansion, which was originally a Jesuit chapel, was built as part of the Jesuit monastery on Parel Island in 1673. William Hornby (1771–1784) was the first governor to take up residence at the mansion. The governor's residence moved to its present site on Malabar Hill in 1885 and the property was used by the Bombay Presidency Recorders. Haffkine moved into the building to set up the \"Plague Research Laboratory\" in 1899, the laboratory being formally opened by the then governor of Bombay, Lord Sandhurst. The Institute was renamed \"Bombay Bacteriology Laboratory\" in 1906 and finally as \"Haffkine Institute\" in 1925.\n\nHaffkine Institute has been the hub where homeopaths like Rajesh Shah revamped the method of preparation and introduced a new nosode sourced from Mycobacterium Tuberculosis. This study prepared a nosode at eminent Haffkine Institute, sourced from four strains of the organisms, including Multidrug resistance Tuberculosis.\n\n"}
{"id": "17754620", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17754620", "title": "Health Integrated", "text": "Health Integrated\n\nHealth Integrated an American health care management company based in Tampa, FL, that addresses health, productivity and cost challenges by integrating behavioral health and behavior change into medical and disease management activities. Health Integrated works with community health plans, commercial health plans and employers serving more than 5 million members.\n\n\nwww.healthintegrated.com\n\n"}
{"id": "39145957", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39145957", "title": "Health Research Authority", "text": "Health Research Authority\n\nThe Health Research Authority (HRA) is an executive non-departmental public body of the Department of Health in the United Kingdom. The HRA exists to provide a unified national system for the governance of health research. The current chair of the HRA is Jonathan Montgomery.\n\nThe formation of the HRA came as a result of reorganisation of the National Health Service (NHS) in England outlined in the Health and Social Care Act 2012, and took on the functions of the National Research Ethics Service. Originally established as a Special Health Authority on 1 December 2011, it became a non-departmental public body on 1 January 2015 under the Care Act 2014.\n"}
{"id": "58492332", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58492332", "title": "Health in the Cayman Islands", "text": "Health in the Cayman Islands\n\nThere are four hospitals in the Cayman Islands. Grand Cayman is home to the private Health City Cayman Islands as well as the Chrissie Tomlinson Memorial Hospital. The public hospitals include the Cayman Islands Hospital (commonly known as the George Town Hospital); and Faith Hospital on Cayman Brac.\n\nEmergency Medical Services are provided by paramedics and Emergency Medical Technicians using ambulances based in George Town, West Bay and North Side in Grand Cayman and in Cayman Brac. EMS is managed by the Government's Health Services Authority.\n\nIn 2007, a magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) unit was installed at the Chrissie Tomlinson Memorial Hospital, replacing the one destroyed by Hurricane Ivan in 2004. In 2009, a stand-alone open MRI facility was opened. This centre provides MRI, CT, X-ray and DEXA (bone density) scanning. Also housed in this building is the Heart Health Centre, which provides ultrasound, nuclear medicine, echocardiography and cardiac stress testing.\n\nFor divers and others in need of hyperbaric oxygen therapy, there is a two-person recompression chamber at the Cayman Islands Hospital on Grand Cayman, run by Cayman Hyperbaric Services. Hyperbaric Services has also built a hyperbaric unit at Faith Hospital in Cayman Brac.\n\nIn 2003, the Cayman Islands became the first country in the world to mandate health insurance for all residents.\n"}
{"id": "39157244", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39157244", "title": "Health in the Czech Republic", "text": "Health in the Czech Republic\n\nThe Czech Republic had the second highest rate of obesity in Europe in 2015. 28.7% of the adult population had a body mass index of 30 or more. \n\nSee also Healthcare in the Czech Republic\n"}
{"id": "42621825", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42621825", "title": "Hereditary gingival fibromatosis", "text": "Hereditary gingival fibromatosis\n\nHereditary gingival fibromatosis (HGF), also known as idiopathic gingival hyperplasia, is a rare condition of gingival overgrowth. HGF is characterized as a benign, slowly progressive, nonhemorrhagic, fibrous enlargement of keratinized gingiva. It can cover teeth in various degrees, and can lead to aesthetic disfigurement. Fibrous enlargement is most common in areas of maxillary and mandibular tissues of both arches in the mouth. Phenotype and genotype frequency of HGF is 1:175,000 where males and females are equally affected but the cause is not entirely known. It mainly exists as an isolated abnormality but can also be associated with a multi-system syndrome.\n\nThere may or may not be any evidence of history of HGF in the family nor any usage of taking long-term medicines for any particular disease when it comes to diagnosing HGF. There also may or may not be any signs of medical and/or family history of mental retardation, hypertrichosis, nor clinical symptoms that can be associated with gingival enlargement. Although, enlargement of gingiva, interdental papilla, hindered speech, and secondary inflammatory changes taking place in the mouth commonly at the marginal gingiva are all very indicative of this condition. Commonly the patient will have mandiblular and maxilliary inflammation and overgrowth as opposed to the traditional pink, firm, and fleshy consistency of healthy gingiva. The patient's jaw may also appear distorted because of the gingiva englargements. Overgrowth of the gingiva can range from slightly covering the surface of teeth or it can even completely cover the surrounding teeth. The patient can also experience damage or loss of teeth.\n\n\nThough much more research needs to be done, researchers have mostly agreed that a mutation in SOS1, son-of-sevenless gene, is responsible for this disease. SOS1 is a guanine nucleotide-exchange factor that functions in the transduction of signals that control cell growth and differentiation. A mutation in the SOS1 gene results in a single nucleotide insertion. Specific linkage studies have localized the mutation for isolated, nonsyndromic autosomal dominant forms of gingival fibromatosis to chromosomes 2 and 5, more specifically 2p21-p22 and 5q13-q22.\n\n\nHGF1 - Caused by a mutation in the SOS1 gene localized on chromosome 2p21-p22\n\nHGF2 - Caused by a mutation in the SOS1 gene localized on chromosome 5q13-q22\n\nMutations in the RE1-silencing transcription factor (REST) gene can also cause this syndrome. \n\n\nHGF may also be caused by unwanted side effects of pharmacological agents like phenytoin, ciclosporin, and some calcium-channel blockers, meaning HGF is a disease that can be drug-induced. However, there is little next to no research done in this area to support the claim.\n\n\nGenetic linkage studies are among the most popular methods of study to look at the mechanism of this HGF. Genetic linkage studies have found to localize genetic loci for autosomal dominant forms of HGF to chromosome 2p21-p22 (indicative of HGF1) and chromosome 5q13-q22 (indicative of HGF2). Chromosome 2p21-p22 has been refined to an interval of ∼2.3 Mb to construct an integrated physical and genetic map of the 16 genes interval. Here, a mutation is found in sequencing these 16 genes.\n\nThere is an insertion of a cytosine between nucleotides 126,142 and 126,143 in codon 1083 of the SOS1 gene, meaning there is a mutation in SOS1. This causes a problem because SOS1 introduces a frameshift mutation and creates a premature stop codon. Also, it can segregate over generations, most commonly four. Once it causes a premature stop codon, the chromosome loses four important proline-rich SH-3 binding domains in the carboxyl-terminal region of the SOS1 protein. As a result, the N-terminal amino acids for SOS1 is fused into a 22–amino acid carboxyl terminus. Researchers claim that this mutation in the SOS1 gene is a probable primary cause of this disease but limited information supports the mechanism of this claim.\n\nThere are very few ways to test a patient for HGF. Currently, the most common way to diagnose a patient is by means of a physical evaluation. The physician can make a physical evaluation of the patient and send them to a dentist or better yet a specialist like a periodontist to evaluate signs of gingival overgrowth, quality of gingiva, inflammation, mechanical difficulties of the mouth, tooth conditions, and any sort of discomfort.\n\nAside from obvious physical symptoms seen in a physical evaluation, molecular tests can be run to check if there is a mutation in the SOS1 gene to confirm the diagnosis. If there is indeed a mutation in this gene coupled with the typical physical symptoms, then it is quite probable that a patient suffers from this disease. Also, looking at family history is also becoming more prominent in aiding to diagnose the patient. Otherwise, researchers are working to find new and better ways to test for the presence of HGF.\n\nSince this condition is generally agreed upon to be hereditary, nothing can be done to prevent HGF. However, in some cases where it can develop as a result of rare multi-system syndromes, such as: Zimmerman-Laband, Jones, Ramon Syndrome, Rutherford Syndrome, Juvenile Hyaline Fibromatosis, Systemic Infantile Hyalinosis, and Mannosidosis, it is best for one to simply monitors the possible progression for HGF with regular dental check-ups.\n\nIf the patient's disease is treated by means of surgery, it is recommended that the patient undergoes post-surgical therapies for maintenance and periodic monitoring of gums for the sake of the possibility of re-occurrence of HGF.\n\nThis disease has not been shown to be life-threatening or the cause of death in patients. However, treatment is necessary to maintain a healthy lifestyle.\n\nThe following can occur if left untreated:\n\nMost recent methods of treatment take the form of surgeries such as oral prophylaxis, followed by post-surgical therapies to monitor, provide proper oral hygiene, and correct the deformity. Although, the nature of recurrence post-treatment is virtually unknown, let alone what type of treatment is most effective for HGF. (SOURCE 2) In some cases, there is re-growth after surgical removal of the excess gingival tissues, in others there is minimal. No cases yet have shown any particular treatment or form of medicine to permanently remove HGF.\n\nOne type of procedure that can be executed is as follows: Removal of excess tissue under anesthesia through an internal bevel gingivectomy or undisplaced flap followed by gingivoplasty and continuous sling suture placements and periodontal dressing; after about a week of recovery after the surgery, remove sutures and periodically do observational evaluations to look for any signs of re-occurrence.\n\nSome researchers suggest that HGF is transmitted as a Mendelian trait since both autosomal dominant and autosomal recessive transmission has been reported since the early 1970s. (SOURCE 1) In more recent scientific literature, there is evidence in which pedigree analyses confirm autosomal dominant, autosomal recessive or even as X-linked inherited cases of the HGF trait.\n\nIn 2002, researchers described the SOS1 gene and proved for the first time that a single-nucleotide–insertion mutation of the SOS1 gene on codon 1083 is the preliminary cause of HGF1 in humans. (Source 1) Later on in 2010, there was a case study done on a 16-year-old male with severe gingival overgrowth, almost covering all teeth. Researchers approached this issue with periodontics - a partial gingivectomy and flap surgery. This case study concluded that surgery followed by regular follow-ups is a good way to treat HGF despite the fact that the risks of re-occurrence of the condition remain high.\n\nEven more recently, a study was done in 2013 on a family that showed history of autosomal recessive inheritance of HGF. The study did not dismiss the return of HGF after treatment but did claim that general surgical intervention after scaling and root planning of teeth supplemented with good oral hygiene is good enough to prevent the re-occurrence of HGF. This case study also acknowledged how HGF can be part of a multi-system syndrome associated with disorders such as Zimmermann Laband syndrome (ear, nose, bone, and nail defects with hepatosplenomegaly), Rutherford syndrome (microphthalmia, mental retardation, athetosis, and hypopigmentation), Murray-Puretic Drescher syndrome and Ramon syndrome.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "12486608", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12486608", "title": "Islam Barrage", "text": "Islam Barrage\n\nIslam Barrage is a barrage on the River Sutlej in Hasilpur Tehsil of the Punjab province of Pakistan\n\nIslam Barrage is used for irrigation and flood control. It is about north of Hasilpur and about south of Luddan on the Vehari-Hasilpur road. It was completed as Sutlej Valley Project for irrigation of Nili Bar in 1927. 1650 feet long with design discharge of 300,000 cusecs, it has two off taking larger canals which irrigate 689,000 acres of land in Southern Punjab and 700, 000 acres in the former Bahawalpur state. Mailsi Canal (5400 cusecs) arises from its right Bank and Bahawal Canal (5400 cusecs) from the left. A third smaller canal is called Qaim Canal (558 cusecs) also arising from the left bank.\n\nAccording to a report, Islam Headworks is in distress owing to aging, design deficiencies, constructional defects, hydraulic and mechanical problems, inadequate operation, maintenance and drastic changes in river morphology as a result of implementation of Indus Water Treaty of 1960. \n\nThe major problem was inadequate flood passage capacity of barrage in relation to flood intensities developed over a 100-year return period. The aging process along with inadequate/deferred maintenance had contributed to a general deterioration of different components of the structure.\n\nThe poor structural state of the headworks has been documented to be poor in June 1998, due to inattention, lack of interest, and the operations of the headworks has suffered. Every September when the flood level rise and India releases a large amount of water, it creates havoc in areas downstream from the head works.\n\nA feasibility study and detailed designs was prepared in 2008 to rehabilitate the Headworks. However due to lack of interest, inefficiency at the government level and absence of confidence/trust of International Financial Institutions (IFIs) has contributed to postpone the rehabilitation. World Bank (WB) has given verbal assurance for financing the rehabilitation of Islam headworks but it would be only after rehabilitation of another barrage (Jinnah). More recently the Punjab government has obtained assurances from the World Bank and the Provincial Government of Shahbaz Sharif has begun to take interest in rehabilitation of the headworks. 2013 floods which caused a significant damage throughout Punjab may have been an impetus in leading to this more proactive policy.\n\nAccording to a 2011 report, River Sutlej at this point is the most polluted river in South Asia. The combined unregulated discharge of Urban and Industrial waste during its course through India and later Pakistan is the most likely source of this problem. \n\nThis barrage is a tourist site for those who want to visit nearby restaurants that sell fresh fish. Most of the tourist are from nearby towns. However it can be developed into a eco-tourism site for those who are interested in study of the hydrology of Indus basin and the effect of shortage of water in this part of the world. The desertification of the area from the nearby Choolistan desert is an interesting phenomenon and the pollution of the river from upstream industry in India is a cause of concern. \n"}
{"id": "233964", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=233964", "title": "John Grinder", "text": "John Grinder\n\nJohn Thomas Grinder, Jr. ( ; born January 10, 1940) is an American linguist, author, management consultant, trainer and speaker. Grinder is credited with co-creating Neuro-linguistic programming, with Richard Bandler. He is co-director of Quantum Leap Inc., a management consulting firm founded by his partner Carmen Bostic St. Clair in 1987 (Grinder joined in 1989). Grinder and Bostic St. Clair also run workshops and seminars on NLP internationally.\n\nGrinder graduated from the University of San Francisco with a B.A. degree in psychology in the early 1960s. Grinder then entered the United States Army and served as a captain in the US Special Forces in Europe during the Cold War; following this he went on to work for a US intelligence agency. In the late 1960s, he returned to college to study linguistics and received his Ph.D. degree from the University of California, San Diego in 1971. His dissertation, titled \"On Deletion Phenomena in English\", was published by Mouton in 1976.\n\nIn the early 1970s, Grinder worked in George A. Miller's laboratory at Rockefeller University. After receiving his doctorate, Grinder took a full-time position as an assistant professor in the linguistics faculty at the University of California, Santa Cruz (UCSC). He engaged in undergraduate teaching, graduate teaching, and research. His research focused on Noam Chomsky's theories of transformational grammar specializing in syntax and deletion phenomena. He published several research papers with Paul Postal on the syntactical structures relating to \"missing antecedents\" or missing parasitic gaps for the pronoun. They argued that the syntactic structure of a deleted verb phrase (VP) is complete.\nEdward Klima, doctoral adviser to both Postal and Grinder at UCSC, became involved in the early development of generative semantics.\n\nGrinder co-authored, with Suzette Elgin, a linguistics text book titled \"A Guide to Transformational Grammar: History, Theory, Practice\". In 2005, Grinder published \"Steps to an Ecology of Emergence\" with Tom Malloy and Carmen Bostic St Clair in the journal \"Cybernetics and Human Knowing\".\n\nIn 1972 (during Grinder's stint at UCSC) Richard Bandler, an undergraduate student of psychology, approached him for assistance in specific aspects of modeling Gestalt therapy. Bandler, along with good friend Frank Pucelik, had spent much time recording and editing recordings of Fritz Perls (founder of Gestalt therapy) and had learned Gestalt therapy implicitly during intense group sessions. After some time, Grinder was invited to participate in group discussions. Although at first Grinder sat quietly, he eventually approached Bandler and Pucelik with some observations and questions. Grinder left a lasting impression on Pucelik and was later dubbed 'the real genius'. Bandler and Pucelik invited Grinder to team up, eventually creating a very close group. Although Bandler, Grinder and Pucelik were the main driving force, there were several other students at the university who contributed ‘a hell of a lot’ according to Pucelik. In the end, hours of unpaid research significantly aided the formation of Meta - modern day NLP.\n\nFrom there Grinder and Bandler modelled the various cognitive behavioral patterns of therapists such as Perls, a leading figure in family therapy Virginia Satir and later the leading figure in hypnosis in psychiatry Milton Erickson. As a result, \"The Structure of Magic\" Volumes I & II (1975, 1976), \"Patterns of the Hypnotic Techniques of Milton H. Erickson\", Volumes I & II (1975, 1977) and \"Changing With Families\" (1976) were published. This work formed the basis of the methodology that became the foundation of neuro-linguistic programming.\n\nThe trio began hosting seminars and practice groups. These served as a place to practice and test their newly discovered patterns while allowing them to transfer the skills to the participants. Several books were published based on transcripts of their seminars, including \"Frogs into Princes\" (1979). During this period, a creative group of students and psychotherapists were asked to join including Robert Dilts, Leslie Cameron-Bandler, Judith DeLozier, Stephen Gilligan and David Gordon (All of whom are considered the second generation of co-developers; recruited by Bandler, Grinder and Pucelik after the original team graduated from university).\n\nIn the 1977, Bandler requested that Pucelik be removed from the group for personal reasons - which was agreed to by immediate mutual consent. It wasn't long after that that Bandler, Grinder and their group of associates split acrimoniously, and stopped working together. Following this, many members of their group went out on their own and took NLP in their own directions. Some of Bandler and Grinder's books went out of print for a while due to legal problems between the co-authors. \"Structure I & II\", and \"Patterns I & II\" – considered the foundation of the field – were later republished. Bandler attempted to claim legal ownership of the term Neuro-Linguistic Programming (NLP); however, it was eventually deemed to be a generic term, and could therefore not be trademarked. Grinder and Bandler settled their claims around 2001, clearing a platform for the future development of NLP as a legitimate field of endeavor.\n\nBetween 1982 and 1987, strongly influenced by anthropologist and systems theorist Gregory Bateson, who had a strong focus on ecology as a psychological construct, Grinder and Judith DeLozier collaborated to develop the \"New Code of NLP\". (Grinder and Bateson had met during their affiliation with Kresge College at the University of California, Santa Cruz during the 1970s.) Grinder and Delozier presented an aesthetic framework for the \"classic code\" of NLP that explicates the involvement of ecology and the unconscious mind in change-work. \"Ecology\" in NLP involves respecting the integrity of a system as a whole when assessing a change to that system; the \"system\" in this case comprises a person's model of the world and the consequences of that model in the person's environment. Practically speaking, this consideration entails asking questions like \"What are the intended effects of this change? What other effects might this change have, and are those effects desirable? Is this change still a good idea?\"\n\nThe seminars were transcribed and published in 1987 as \"Turtles All the Way Down; Prerequisites to Personal Genius\".\n\nJohn Grinder and Carmen Bostic St Clair have further developed The New Code of NLP. (Bostic St Clair founded Quantum Leap Inc., a cultural-change consultancy firm.) Grinder and Bostic St Clair continue to present public seminars on NLP internationally. In 2001, Grinder (with Bostic St Clair) published \"Whispering in the Wind\" with a \"set of recommendations as to how specifically NLP can improve its practice and take its rightful place as a scientifically based endeavor with its precise focus on modeling of the extremes of human behavior: excellence and the high performers who actually do it\". Grinder has since begun to strongly encourage the field to make a recommitment to what he considers the core activity of NLP: modeling.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "25060870", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25060870", "title": "Kenneth N. Beers", "text": "Kenneth N. Beers\n\nKenneth N. Beers was an American medical doctor who served as a NASA flight surgeon during the Project Gemini and Apollo Program eras. Beers died on September 20, 2017.\n\nBeers did his undergraduate work at Muhlenberg College. In 1956, Dr. Beers graduated from Jefferson Medical College of Thomas Jefferson University. On September 20, 1962, he received his California medical license.\n\nBeers was president of the Society of NASA Flight Engineers.\n\nBeers was professor emeritus at the Wright State University medical school.\n\n"}
{"id": "37332479", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37332479", "title": "Ketosis-prone diabetes", "text": "Ketosis-prone diabetes\n\nKetosis-prone diabetes or KPD is an intermediate form of diabetes that has some characteristics of type 1 and some of type 2 diabetes. However, it is distinct from latent autoimmune diabetes of adults, a form of type 1 sometimes referred to as type 1.5.\n\nKPD is readily diagnosible because it presents a single characteristic, ketoacidosis, which if present, confirms it as ketosis-prone diabetes. KPD comes in four forms depending upon the presence or absence of β-cell autoantibodies (A+ or A−) and β-cell functional reserve (β+ or β−).\n"}
{"id": "43099392", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43099392", "title": "Lauriston S. Taylor", "text": "Lauriston S. Taylor\n\nLauriston S. Taylor (1 June 1902 – 26 November 2004) was an American physicist known for his work in the field of radiation protection and measurement.\n\nHe established standards for X-ray radiation exposure for the first time in the 1920s, which eventually led to a group of government organizations that set the standards over the next 50 years. Taylor remained active in debates about radiation exposure into his 80s, often advocating the viewpoint that small doses of radiation were not important.\n\nHe served as president of the Health Physics Society (HPS) from 1958 to 1959. He was a recipient of the Medal of Freedom, and the Presidential Bronze Star (then the highest military award that could be given to a civilian).\n\nIn 1977 the Food and Drug Administration of the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services initiated a series of 25 recorded interviews with early radiation workers to provide an historical overview of their research and discoveries primarily in the fields of medical physics, radiation, and radiobiology. Lauriston S. Taylor moderated the series and also was an interview subject.\n\n"}
{"id": "6706071", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6706071", "title": "List of diseases spread by invertebrates", "text": "List of diseases spread by invertebrates\n\nInvertebrates are very common vectors of disease. A vector is an organism which spreads disease from one host to another. Invertebrates spread bacterial, viral and protozoan pathogens by two main mechanisms. Either via their bite, as in the case of malaria spread by mosquitoes, or via their faeces, as in the case of Chagas' Disease spread by Triatoma bugs or epidemic typhus spread by human body lice.\n\nMany invertebrates are responsible for transmitting diseases. Mosquitoes are perhaps the best known invertebrate vector and transmit a wide range of tropical diseases including malaria, dengue fever and yellow fever. Another large group of vectors are flies. Sandfly species transmit the disease leishmaniasis, by acting as vectors for protozoan \"Leishmania\" species, and tsetse flies transmit protozoan trypansomes (\"Trypanosoma brucei gambiense\" and \"Trypansoma brucei rhodesiense\") which cause African Trypanosomiasis (sleeping sickness). Ticks and lice form another large group of invertebrate vectors. The bacterium \"Borrelia burgdorferi\", which causes Lyme Disease, is transmitted by ticks and members of the bacterial genus \"Rickettsia\" are transmitted by lice. For example, the human body louse transmits the bacterium \"Rickettsia prowazekii\" which causes epidemic typhus.\n\nAlthough invertebrate-transmitted diseases pose a particular threat on the continents of Africa, Asia and South America, there is one way of controlling invertebrate-borne diseases, which is by controlling the invertebrate vector. For example, one way of controlling malaria is to control the mosquito vector through the use of mosquito nets, which prevent mosquitoes from coming into contact with humans.\n\nThis is a list of diseases spread by invertebrates.\n\n"}
{"id": "20782899", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20782899", "title": "Lymphangioma circumscriptum", "text": "Lymphangioma circumscriptum\n\nSuperficial lymphatic malformation (also known as \"Lymphangioma circumscriptum\") is a congenital malformation of the superficial lymphatics, presenting as groups of deep-seated, vesicle-like papules resembling frog spawn, at birth or shortly thereafter.\n\n"}
{"id": "13305310", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13305310", "title": "Mindset Network", "text": "Mindset Network\n\nMindset Network is a non-profit organisation formed in 2002 to educate and improve health in South Africa. It develops, sources, distributes and uses digital content. Its multimedia content is distributed via broadcast television, IP based satellite datacast, the web, distributable media (hard drives, DVDs and CDs) and mobile networks.\n\nMindset has 3 programmes. Learn and Cabanga are for secondary and primary schools respectively, while Health is for the South African health sector. Mindset is developing a Livelihoods channel for developing the skills of out-of-school youth.\n\nMindset Learn, the original programme, is for Grades 10 to 12 at South African high schools. It covers Mathematics, Physical Science, English and Information Technology.\n\nMindset Cabanga, with support from USAID, is a programme for Grades 4 and 5 covering Mathematics, Natural Science and Technology.\n\nMindset Health is about treating HIV/AIDS. The programme reaches patients in clinic and hospital waiting rooms, and health care providers.\n\n"}
{"id": "38736407", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38736407", "title": "Ministry of Health (Kazakhstan)", "text": "Ministry of Health (Kazakhstan)\n\nThe Ministry of Health of Kazakhstan () is a cabinet-level ministry of the Republic of Kazakhstan. It is the highest government department responsible for health.\n\nThe Ministry of Health was founded in 1961.\n\nPolitical Party:\n\nThe Ministry of Health is responsible for:\n"}
{"id": "4915572", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4915572", "title": "Mobile Crisis", "text": "Mobile Crisis\n\nMobile Crisis, or Mobile Crisis Rapid Response Team (MCRRT), is a mental health service in the United States and Canada (typically operated by hospital or community mental health agency) which services the community by providing immediate response emergency mental health evaluations. Evaluations are often requested by hospital emergency rooms, but can also be requested by ICUs, CCUs, jails, nursing homes, police, or EMS. These services are often available on a 24-hour basis.\n\nMobile Crisis evaluations are typically requested due to a reasonable expectation of self-inflicted harm to the client, but can also be requested due to a reasonable expectation of the client's intent to harm another person. In addition to Suicidal/Homicidal Ideation or gestures, an assessment may be requested due to a person exhibiting signs of psychosis, grave alien, or altered mental status believed not to have an organic etiology. Criteria for requesting a Mobile Crisis assessment varies depending upon individual mental health agencies and entities that regulate mental health services, as well as statues created via legislative assemblies. An assessment may be requested for situations involving alcohol and drugs (where there is not a mental health component), or \"routine\" evaluations requested where there is not a reasonable expectation of harm to the client or another individual, as long as psychopathology is not otherwise ruled out.\n\nThe Mobile Crisis clinician has typically obtained her/his Master's degree in a mental health-related field (such as social work, mental health counseling, or counseling psychology). The clinician performs the evaluation based on standard models of mental status examination (alert and oriented, mood, thought process, affect, etc.), and assigns a DSM-5 (Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of the American Psychiatric Association, Fifth Edition) diagnosis if this falls within their scope of practice. After completing the evaluation, the clinician makes a disposition, or placement, decision for the client. Placements can include involuntary in-patient hospitalization, voluntary in-patient hospitalization, or discharge to home with out-patient referrals. Following disposition, the Mobile Crisis unit can be expected to follow up with the client within a few days.\n\nhttp://dhss.delaware.gov/dhss/dsamh/crisis_intervention.html\n\n"}
{"id": "14407195", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14407195", "title": "New Zealand Society of Physiotherapists", "text": "New Zealand Society of Physiotherapists\n\nThe New Zealand Society of Physiotherapists (NZSP) is a professional body of physiotherapists in New Zealand. Membership of the society is optional, but demonstrates that a particular practitioner upholds certain standards including adherence to a code of conduct. Individuals who meet certain criteria may indicate their membership by using the letters MNZSP or FNZSP after their names.\n\nThe society was established in 1950.\n\n\nThe motto, in Māori, is \"kia akotahi tatou, kia kotahi ra\" (let's learn and grow together).\n\nThe society is made up of branches which represent geographical regions around the country. Each member of the society belongs to and is represented by a branch for the region in which they reside.\n\nThe branches are:\n\nThe society also supports a number of groups of practitioners who are interested in particular specialities within the profession. Membership of a special interest group is optional.\n\nThe following special interest groups exist:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "47022215", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47022215", "title": "OSMECON", "text": "OSMECON\n\nOSMECON is a pan-India Undergraduate medical conference held annually by Osmania Medical College and its associate hospitals. It is a three-day-long event usually held in August every year.\n\nDesigned as a special platform presented by Osmania Medical College to promote undergraduate talent, it instills scientific reasoning and reinforces the value of medical research. Started in 2010 to share medical research done by undergraduates, OSMECON has grown into a special event to showcase, learn, share and gain knowledge.It aims to inculcate a healthy and competitive atmosphere of learning medicine through discussion and research.Under the constant guidance of faculty members, the inaugural edition took place in 2010.The conference was initially restricted to Indian Medical Undergraduates. In its 5th edition held in 2014, the conference witnessed the participation of Foreign Medical Undergraduates. The 9th edition of OSMECON is scheduled to be held on 10,11,12 August 2018.\n\n\nThe conference reached out to other medical colleges in erstwhile Andhra Pradesh. It was a two-day event conducted on the 25,26 August 2011 with 100 delegates.The following were introduced for the first time–\n\n\nDr.B.Sesi Kiran, Former Director of NIN gave a lecture on Research Methodology and Dr.Sreekanth Vemula, Eminent Neurophysician, graced the event.\n\nIt was a 3-day event held from 31 August-2 September with 400 delegates.\n\nThe highlight of the conference was the introduction of workshops for undergraduate medical students.\n\n\n\nDr.Ch.Mohan Rao, Director CCMB & Dr.Kalpagam Polasa, former Director of NIN inaugurated the event and spoke of the research scenario in the country.\n\nDr.Gullapalli Nageswara Rao, Founder of LV Prasad Eye Hospital, delivered a guest lecture.\n\nTheme of the conference : Mental Health Awareness\n\nThere were 800 delegates with 7 from Nepal. The following events were introduced:\n\n\nPadma Shri Dr.Kakarla Subba Rao, internationally renowned radiologist and Father of Radiology in India, inaugurated the event.\n\nPadma Shri Dr.L.Narendranath, eminent Orthopaedic surgeon delivered a guest lecture on 'IT Solutions in Health Care'.\n\nTheme of Poster Presentation : 3-D Printing in Medicine, Novel Drug Delivery Systems\n\nIt was a 3-day event with the participation of over 1000 delegates & had 5 workshops on:\n\nPadmashri Dr. A.Gopala Krishna Gokhale (Cardiothoracic Surgeon, First Minimal Access Heart Surgeon & First Heart-Kidney combined Transplant Surgeon) delivered the Inaugural Address.\n\nDr. G.V.Ramana Rao (Executive Partner, Head of Emergency Medicine Learning Centre (EMLC) and Research division at GVK-EMRI) was the Guest of Honour\n\nDr. G.Jagdishwar Goud, renowned Surgical Oncologist and Robotic Surgeon spoke about trends in Robotic Surgery.\n\nDr. M.Pari Plavi, distinguished alumna of Osmania Medical College, former Professor and Head of Department of Anatomy at Osmania Medical College, Founder-Convener of OSMECON, discussed the Neuroscience of Adolescence and Meditation.\n\nTheme of Poster Presentation : Cancer Immunotherapy, Personalised Medicine\n\nThere were about 1100 delegates attending from all over the country.\n\nDr.K.Srinath Reddy, President of Public Health Foundation of India delivered the inaugural address.\n\nDr.Patanjali Dev Nayar, Regional Advisor, Disability & Injury Prevention, WHO SEARO delivered a lecture on \"Manoeuvring crossroads to human sexuality\".\n\nTheme of the conference : Adolescent & Reproductive Health\n\nOver 1400 delegates participated in the eighth edition, with over 120 international delegates, taking the event to a bigger stage. Two new workshops were introduced:\n\n2) Forensic Autopsy\n\nThe 9th edition of Osmecon is scheduled to be held on 10,11,12 August at Osmania Medical College, Hyderabad. The conference will add 3 new workshops to its list-\n\n\nBasic Life Support\n\nBasic Surgical Skills\n\nObstetrics and Neonatology\n\nEmergency and Trauma Care\n\nResearch Methodology\n\nChest Sound Interpretation\n\nArterial Blood Gas Analysis\n\nForensic Medicine-Autopsy\n\nECG Interpretatiom\n\nImaging & Radiology\n\nSoft Skills\n\nInteractive Genomics\n\nThe events held are as under\n\nCase presentation : An excellent opportunity to share an interesting case with peers and professionals alike in the medical field.\n\nPaper presentation : A platform for young researchers to showcase their talent. Research done by undergraduates in any medical field is accepted.\n\nPoster presentation : In this session delegates present posters about the most happening topics in the field of medicine.\n\nMedical Symposium\n\nMedQuiz (Medical Quiz)\n\nDare to Diagnose (Case Diagnosis)\n\nArt Attack (Sketching)\n\nShutterMedics (Photography)\n\nDiogenes Club (Debate)\n\nMedventure\n\nGraphilia\n\nInvictus\n\nSpellbee\n\nMedical Dumbcharades\n\nReferences\n"}
{"id": "41582697", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41582697", "title": "Oii-Chinese", "text": "Oii-Chinese\n\nFounded by Hiker Chiu in 2008, Oii-Chinese (國際陰陽人組織 — 中文版) is an intersex advocacy and support group and the Chinese language affiliate of Organisation Intersex International. Oii-Chinese is active in Taiwan, Hong Kong, and other areas in East Asia.\n\nThe organisation aims to end \"normalising\" surgeries on intersex children, promote awareness of intersex issues, and improve government recognition of gender. Chiu says that surgical \"normalisation\" practices began in Taiwan in 1953. As part of this mission, Chiu started a \"free hugs with intersex\" campaign at Taipei's LGBT Pride Parade in 2010. The organisation also gives lectures and lobbies government.\n\nOii-Chinese is affiliated to Organisation Intersex International and a member of the International Lesbian, Gay, Bisexual, Trans and Intersex Association. In 2015, Chiu was elected to the board of the International Lesbian, Gay, Bisexual, Trans and Intersex Association to represent ILGA Asia.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "53328510", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53328510", "title": "Ossification of the posterior longitudinal ligament", "text": "Ossification of the posterior longitudinal ligament\n\nOssification of the posterior longitudinal ligament (OPLL) is a process of fibrosis, calcification, and ossification of the posterior longitudinal ligament of the spine, that may involve the spinal dura. Once considered a disorder unique to people of Asian heritage, it is now recognized as an uncommon disorder in a variety of patients with myelopathy.\n\nThe causes of OPLL are unknown. However, genetic and environmental factors appear to play a role in pathogenesis. OPLL may also be associated with diffuse idiopathic skeletal hyperostosis\n\nMyeolography, including post-myelographic CT is likely the most effective imaging study an accurate diagnosis.\n\nSurgical management options include extensive cervical laminectomy with or without an additional posterior arthrodesis, anterior decompression and arthrodesis, and posterior cervical laminoplasty. Treatment decisions can be made based on a grading systems devised by Hirabayashi et al., supplemented by the Nurick myelopathy classification system.\n\nMost patients suffer from only mild symptoms. Symptoms typically last approximately 13 months. Of patients without myelopathy at initial presentation, only 29% of them will develop myelopathy within 30 years.\n\nThe age range of patients with OPLL is from 32 to 81 years (mean = 53), with a male predominance. Prevalence is higher in those of Japanese or Asian ancestry (2-3.5%) and rarer in other racial groups (0.16%). Schizophrenia patients in Japan may have as high as 20% incidence.\n"}
{"id": "297350", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=297350", "title": "Pharmacy", "text": "Pharmacy\n\nPharmacy is the science and technique of preparing and dispensing drugs. It is a health profession that links health sciences with chemical sciences and aims to ensure the safe and effective use of pharmaceutical drugs.\n\nThe scope of pharmacy practice includes more traditional roles such as compounding and dispensing medications, and it also includes more modern services related to health care, including clinical services, reviewing medications for safety and efficacy, and providing drug information. Pharmacists, therefore, are the experts on drug therapy and are the primary health professionals who optimize use of medication for the benefit of the patients.\n\nAn establishment in which pharmacy (in the first sense) is practiced is called a \"pharmacy\" (this term is more common in the United States) or a \"chemist's\" (which is more common in Great Britain). In the United States and Canada, \"drugstores\" commonly sell medicines, as well as miscellaneous items such as confectionery, cosmetics, office supplies, toys, hair care products and magazines and occasionally refreshments and groceries.\n\nIn its investigation of herbal and chemical ingredients, the work of the pharma may be regarded as a precursor of the modern sciences of chemistry and pharmacology, prior to the formulation of the scientific method.\n\nThe field of pharmacy can generally be divided into three primary disciplines:\n\nThe boundaries between these disciplines and with other sciences, such as biochemistry, are not always clear-cut.\nOften, collaborative teams from various disciplines (pharmacists and other scientists) work together toward the introduction of new therapeutics and methods for patient care. However, pharmacy is not a basic or biomedical science in its typical form. Medicinal chemistry is also a distinct branch of synthetic chemistry combining pharmacology, organic chemistry, and chemical biology.\n\nPharmacology is sometimes considered as the 4th discipline of pharmacy. Although pharmacology is essential to the study of pharmacy, it is not specific to pharmacy. Both disciplines are distinct. Those who wish to practice both pharmacy (patient oriented) and pharmacology (a biomedical science requiring the scientific method) receive separate training and degrees unique to either discipline.\n\nPharmacoinformatics is considered another new discipline, for systematic drug discovery and development with efficiency and safety.\n\nThe World Health Organization estimates that there are at least 2.6 million pharmacists and other pharmaceutical personnel worldwide.\n\nPharmacists are healthcare professionals with specialised education and training who perform various roles to ensure optimal health outcomes for their patients through the quality use of medicines. Pharmacists may also be small-business proprietors, owning the pharmacy in which they practice. Since pharmacists know about the mode of action of a particular drug, and its metabolism and physiological effects on the human body in great detail, they play an important role in optimisation of a drug treatment for an individual.\n\nPharmacists are represented internationally by the International Pharmaceutical Federation (FIP). They are represented at the national level by professional organisations such as the Royal Pharmaceutical Society in the UK, Pharmacy Guild of Australia (PSA), Canadian Pharmacists Association (CPhA), Indian Pharmacist Association (IPA), Pakistan Pharmacists Association (PPA), and American Pharmacists Association (APhA), \"See also: List of pharmacy associations.\"\n\nIn some cases, the representative body is also the registering body, which is responsible for the regulation and ethics of the profession.\n\nIn the United States, specializations in pharmacy practice recognized by the Board of Pharmacy Specialties include: cardiovascular, infectious disease, oncology, pharmacotherapy, nuclear, nutrition, and psychiatry. The Commission for Certification in Geriatric Pharmacy certifies pharmacists in geriatric pharmacy practice. The American Board of Applied Toxicology certifies pharmacists and other medical professionals in applied toxicology.\n\nPharmacy technicians support the work of pharmacists and other health professionals by performing a variety of pharmacy related functions, including dispensing prescription drugs and other medical devices to patients and instructing on their use. They may also perform administrative duties in pharmaceutical practice, such as reviewing prescription requests with medic's offices and insurance companies to ensure correct medications are provided and payment is received.\n\nA Pharmacy Technician in the UK has recently been referred to by some as a professional. Legislation requires the supervision of certain pharmacy technician's activities by a pharmacist. The majority of pharmacy technicians work in community pharmacies. In hospital pharmacies, pharmacy technicians may be managed by other senior pharmacy technicians. In the UK the role of a PhT in hospital pharmacy has grown and responsibility has been passed on to them to manage the pharmacy department and specialised areas in pharmacy practice allowing pharmacists the time to specialise in their expert field as medication consultants spending more time working with patients and in research. Pharmacy technicians are registered with the General Pharmaceutical Council (GPhC). The GPhC is the regulator of pharmacists, pharmacy technicians and pharmacy premises.\n\nIn the US, pharmacy technicians perform their duties under supervision of pharmacists. Although they may perform, under supervision, most dispensing, compounding and other tasks, they are not generally allowed to perform the role of counseling patients on the proper use of their medications.\n\nThere are different requirements of schooling based on the area of pharmaceuticals a student is seeking. In the United States, the general pharmacist will attain a Doctor of Pharmacy Degree (Pharm.D.). The Pharm.D. can be completed in a minimum of six years, which includes two years of pre-pharmacy classes, and four years of professional studies. After graduating pharmacy school, it is highly suggested that the student go on to complete a one or two year residency, which provides valuable experience for the student before going out independently to be a generalized or specialized pharmacist. \n\nThe curriculum created for a Pharm.D. is made up of 208-credit hours. Of the 208-credit hours, 68 are transferred-credit hours, and the remaining 140-credit hours are completed in the professional school. There are a series of required standardized tests that students have to pass throughout the process of pharmacy school. The standardized test to get into pharmacy school is called the Pharmacy College Admission Test (PCAT). In a student's third professional year in pharmacy school, it is required to pass the Pharmacy Curriculum Outcomes Assessment (PCOA). Once the Pharm.D. is attained after the fourth year professional school, the student is then eligible to take the North American Pharmacist Licensure Exam (NAPLEX) and the Multistate Pharmacy Jurisprudence Exam (MPJE) to work as a professional pharmacist.\n\nThe earliest known compilation of medicinal substances was the \"Sushruta Samhita\", an Indian Ayurvedic treatise attributed to Sushruta in the 6th century BC. However, the earliest text as preserved dates to the 3rd or 4th century AD.\n\nMany Sumerian (late 6th millennium BC – early 2nd millennium BC) cuneiform clay tablets record prescriptions for medicine.\n\nAncient Egyptian pharmacological knowledge was recorded in various papyri such as the \"Ebers Papyrus\" of 1550 BC, and the \"Edwin Smith Papyrus\" of the 16th century BC.\nIn Ancient Greece, Diocles of Carystus (4th century BC) was one of several men studying the medicinal properties of plants. He wrote several treatises on the topic. The Greek physician Pedanius Dioscorides is famous for writing a five volume book in his native Greek Περί ύλης ιατρικής in the 1st century AD. The Latin translation \"De Materia Medica\" (\"Concerning medical substances\") was used a basis for many medieval texts, and was built upon by many middle eastern scientists during the Islamic Golden Age.\n\nPharmacy in China dates at least to the earliest known Chinese manual, the \"Shennong Bencao Jing\" (\"The Divine Farmer's Herb-Root Classic\"), dating back to the 1st century AD. It was compiled during the Han dynasty and was attributed to the mythical Shennong. Earlier literature included lists of prescriptions for specific ailments, exemplified by a manuscript \"Recipes for 52 Ailments\", found in the Mawangdui, sealed in 168 BC. \n\nIn Japan, at the end of the Asuka period (538–710) and the early Nara period (710–794), the men who fulfilled roles similar to those of modern pharmacists were highly respected. The place of pharmacists in society was expressly defined in the Taihō Code (701) and re-stated in the Yōrō Code (718). Ranked positions in the pre-Heian Imperial court were established; and this organizational structure remained largely intact until the Meiji Restoration (1868). In this highly stable hierarchy, the pharmacists—and even pharmacist assistants—were assigned status superior to all others in health-related fields such as physicians and acupuncturists. In the Imperial household, the pharmacist was even ranked above the two personal physicians of the Emperor.\n\nThere is a stone sign for a pharmacy with a tripod, a mortar, and a pestle opposite one for a doctor in the Arcadian Way in Ephesus near Kusadasi in Turkey. The current Ephesus dates back to 400 BC and was the site of the Temple of Artemis, one of the seven wonders of the world.\n\nIn Baghdad the first pharmacies, or drug stores, were established in 754, under the Abbasid Caliphate during the Islamic Golden Age. By the 9th century, these pharmacies were state-regulated.\n\nThe advances made in the Middle East in botany and chemistry led medicine in medieval Islam substantially to develop pharmacology. Muhammad ibn Zakarīya Rāzi (Rhazes) (865–915), for instance, acted to promote the medical uses of chemical compounds. Abu al-Qasim al-Zahrawi (Abulcasis) (936–1013) pioneered the preparation of medicines by sublimation and distillation. His \"Liber servitoris\" is of particular interest, as it provides the reader with recipes and explains how to prepare the `simples’ from which were compounded the complex drugs then generally used. Sabur Ibn Sahl (d 869), was, however, the first physician to initiate pharmacopoedia, describing a large variety of drugs and remedies for ailments. Al-Biruni (973–1050) wrote one of the most valuable Islamic works on pharmacology, entitled \"Kitab al-Saydalah\" (\"The Book of Drugs\"), in which he detailed the properties of drugs and outlined the role of pharmacy and the functions and duties of the pharmacist. Avicenna, too, described no less than 700 preparations, their properties, modes of action, and their indications. He devoted in fact a whole volume to simple drugs in \"The Canon of Medicine\". Of great impact were also the works by al-Maridini of Baghdad and Cairo, and Ibn al-Wafid (1008–1074), both of which were printed in Latin more than fifty times, appearing as \"De Medicinis universalibus et particularibus\" by 'Mesue' the younger, and the \"Medicamentis simplicibus\" by 'Abenguefit'. Peter of Abano (1250–1316) translated and added a supplement to the work of al-Maridini under the title \"De Veneris\". Al-Muwaffaq’s contributions in the field are also pioneering. Living in the 10th century, he wrote \"The foundations of the true properties of Remedies\", amongst others describing arsenious oxide, and being acquainted with silicic acid. He made clear distinction between sodium carbonate and potassium carbonate, and drew attention to the poisonous nature of copper compounds, especially copper vitriol, and also lead compounds. He also describes the distillation of sea-water for drinking.\n\nIn Europe pharmacy-like shops began to appear during the 12th century. In 1240 emperor Frederic II issued a decree by which the physician's and the apothecary's professions were separated. \"The first pharmacy in Europe (still working) was opened in 1241 in Trier, Germany.\"\nIn Europe there are old pharmacies still operating in Dubrovnik, Croatia, located inside the Franciscan monastery, opened in 1317; and in the Town Hall Square of Tallinn, Estonia, dating from at least 1422.\nThe oldest is claimed to have been set up in 1221 in the Church of Santa Maria Novella in Florence, Italy, which now houses a perfume museum. The medieval Esteve Pharmacy, located in Llívia, a Catalan enclave close to Puigcerdà, also now a museum, dates back to the 15th century, keeping albarellos from the 16th and 17th centuries, old prescription books and antique drugs.\n\nPharmacists practice in a variety of areas including community pharmacies, hospitals, clinics, extended care facilities, psychiatric hospitals, and regulatory agencies. Pharmacists themselves may have expertise in a medical specialty.\n\nA \"pharmacy\" (commonly the \"chemist\" in Australia, New Zealand and the UK; or \"drugstore\" in North America; \"retail pharmacy\" in industry terminology; or Apothecary, historically) is the place where most pharmacists practice the profession of pharmacy. It is the community pharmacy where the dichotomy of the profession exists—health professionals who are also retailers.\n\nCommunity pharmacies usually consist of a retail storefront with a dispensary where medications are stored and dispensed. According to Sharif Kaf al-Ghazal, the opening of the first drugstores are recorded by Muslim pharmacists in Baghdad in 754.\n\nIn most countries, the dispensary is subject to pharmacy legislation; with requirements for storage conditions, compulsory texts, equipment, etc., specified in legislation. Where it was once the case that pharmacists stayed within the dispensary compounding/dispensing medications, there has been an increasing trend towards the use of trained pharmacy technicians while the pharmacist spends more time communicating with patients. Pharmacy technicians are now more dependent upon automation to assist them in their new role dealing with patients' prescriptions and patient safety issues.\n\nPharmacies are typically required to have a pharmacist on-duty at all times when open. It is also often a requirement that the owner of a pharmacy must be a registered pharmacist, although this is not the case in all jurisdictions, such that many retailers (including supermarkets and mass merchandisers) now include a pharmacy as a department of their store.\n\nLikewise, many pharmacies are now rather grocery store-like in their design. In addition to medicines and prescriptions, many now sell a diverse arrangement of additional items such as cosmetics, shampoo, office supplies, confections, snack foods, durable medical equipment, greeting cards, and provide photo processing services.\n\nPharmacies within hospitals differ considerably from community pharmacies. Some pharmacists in hospital pharmacies may have more complex clinical medication management issues whereas pharmacists in community pharmacies often have more complex business and customer relations issues.\n\nBecause of the complexity of medications including specific indications, effectiveness of treatment regimens, safety of medications (i.e., drug interactions) and patient compliance issues (in the hospital and at home) many pharmacists practicing in hospitals gain more education and training after pharmacy school through a pharmacy practice residency and sometimes followed by another residency in a specific area. Those pharmacists are often referred to as clinical pharmacists and they often specialize in various disciplines of pharmacy. For example, there are pharmacists who specialize in hematology/oncology, HIV/AIDS, infectious disease, critical care, emergency medicine, toxicology, nuclear pharmacy, pain management, psychiatry, anti-coagulation clinics, herbal medicine, neurology/epilepsy management, pediatrics, neonatal pharmacists and more.\n\nHospital pharmacies can often be found within the premises of the hospital. Hospital pharmacies usually stock a larger range of medications, including more specialized medications, than would be feasible in the community setting. Most hospital medications are unit-dose, or a single dose of medicine. Hospital pharmacists and trained pharmacy technicians compound sterile products for patients including total parenteral nutrition (TPN), and other medications given intravenously. This is a complex process that requires adequate training of personnel, quality assurance of products, and adequate facilities. Several hospital pharmacies have decided to outsource high risk preparations and some other compounding functions to companies who specialize in compounding. The high cost of medications and drug-related technology, combined with the potential impact of medications and pharmacy services on patient-care outcomes and patient safety, make it imperative that hospital pharmacies perform at the highest level possible.\n\nPharmacists provide direct patient care services that optimizes the use of medication and promotes health, wellness, and disease prevention. Clinical pharmacists care for patients in all health care settings, but the clinical pharmacy movement initially began inside hospitals and clinics. Clinical pharmacists often collaborate with physicians and other healthcare professionals to improve pharmaceutical care. Clinical pharmacists are now an integral part of the interdisciplinary approach to patient care. They often participate in patient care rounds for drug product selection.\n\nThe clinical pharmacist's role involves creating a comprehensive drug therapy plan for patient-specific problems, identifying goals of therapy, and reviewing all prescribed medications prior to dispensing and administration to the patient. The review process often involves an evaluation of the appropriateness of the drug therapy (e.g., drug choice, dose, route, frequency, and duration of therapy) and its efficacy. The pharmacist must also monitor for potential drug interactions, adverse drug reactions, and assess patient drug allergies while designing and initiating a drug therapy plan.\n\nSince the emergence of modern clinical pharmacy, ambulatory care pharmacy practice has emerged as a unique pharmacy practice setting. Ambulatory care pharmacy is based primarily on pharmacotherapy services that a pharmacist provides in a clinic. Pharmacists in this setting often do not dispense drugs, but rather see patients in office visits to manage chronic disease states.\n\nIn the U.S. federal health care system (including the VA, the Indian Health Service, and NIH) ambulatory care pharmacists are given full independent prescribing authority. In some states such North Carolina and New Mexico these pharmacist clinicians are given collaborative prescriptive and diagnostic authority. In 2011 the board of Pharmaceutical Specialties approved ambulatory care pharmacy practice as a separate board certification. The official designation for pharmacists who pass the ambulatory care pharmacy specialty certification exam will be Board Certified Ambulatory Care Pharmacist and these pharmacists will carry the initials BCACP.\n\nCompounding is the practice of preparing drugs in new forms. For example, if a drug manufacturer only provides a drug as a tablet, a compounding pharmacist might make a medicated lollipop that contains the drug. Patients who have difficulty swallowing the tablet may prefer to suck the medicated lollipop instead.\n\nAnother form of compounding is by mixing different strengths (g, mg, mcg) of capsules or tablets to yield the desired amount of medication indicated by the physician, physician assistant, Nurse Practitioner, or clinical pharmacist practitioner. This form of compounding is found at community or hospital pharmacies or in-home administration therapy.\n\nCompounding pharmacies specialize in compounding, although many also dispense the same non-compounded drugs that patients can obtain from community pharmacies.\n\nConsultant pharmacy practice focuses more on medication regimen review (i.e. \"cognitive services\") than on actual dispensing of drugs. Consultant pharmacists most typically work in nursing homes, but are increasingly branching into other institutions and non-institutional settings. Traditionally consultant pharmacists were usually independent business owners, though in the United States many now work for several large pharmacy management companies (primarily Omnicare, Kindred Healthcare and PharMerica). This trend may be gradually reversing as consultant pharmacists begin to work directly with patients, primarily because many elderly people are now taking numerous medications but continue to live outside of institutional settings. Some community pharmacies employ consultant pharmacists and/or provide consulting services.\n\nThe main principle of consultant pharmacy is developed by Hepler and Strand in 1990.\n\nSince about the year 2000, a growing number of Internet pharmacies have been established worldwide. Many of these pharmacies are similar to community pharmacies, and in fact, many of them are actually operated by brick-and-mortar community pharmacies that serve consumers online and those that walk in their door. The primary difference is the method by which the medications are requested and received. Some customers consider this to be more convenient and private method rather than traveling to a community drugstore where another customer might overhear about the drugs that they take. Internet pharmacies (also known as online pharmacies) are also recommended to some patients by their physicians if they are homebound.\n\nWhile most Internet pharmacies sell prescription drugs and require a valid prescription, some Internet pharmacies sell prescription drugs without requiring a prescription. Many customers order drugs from such pharmacies to avoid the \"inconvenience\" of visiting a doctor or to obtain medications which their doctors were unwilling to prescribe. However, this practice has been criticized as potentially dangerous, especially by those who feel that only doctors can reliably assess contraindications, risk/benefit ratios, and an individual's overall suitability for use of a medication. There also have been reports of such pharmacies dispensing substandard products.\n\nOf particular concern with Internet pharmacies is the ease with which people, youth in particular, can obtain controlled substances (e.g., Vicodin, generically known as hydrocodone) via the Internet without a prescription issued by a doctor/practitioner who has an established doctor-patient relationship. There are many instances where a practitioner issues a prescription, brokered by an Internet server, for a controlled substance to a \"patient\" s/he has never met. In the United States, in order for a prescription for a controlled substance to be valid, it must be issued for a legitimate medical purpose by a licensed practitioner acting in the course of legitimate doctor-patient relationship. The filling pharmacy has a corresponding responsibility to ensure that the prescription is valid. Often, individual state laws outline what defines a valid patient-doctor relationship.\n\nCanada is home to dozens of licensed Internet pharmacies, many of which sell their lower-cost prescription drugs to U.S. consumers, who pay one of the world's highest drug prices. In recent years, many consumers in the US and in other countries with high drug costs, have turned to licensed Internet pharmacies in India, Israel and the UK, which often have even lower prices than in Canada.\n\nIn the United States, there has been a push to legalize importation of medications from Canada and other countries, in order to reduce consumer costs. While in most cases importation of prescription medications violates Food and Drug Administration (FDA) regulations and federal laws, enforcement is generally targeted at international drug suppliers, rather than consumers. There is no known case of any U.S. citizens buying Canadian drugs for personal use with a prescription, who has ever been charged by authorities.\n\nVeterinary pharmacies, sometimes called \"animal pharmacies\", may fall in the category of hospital pharmacy, retail pharmacy or mail-order pharmacy. Veterinary pharmacies stock different varieties and different strengths of medications to fulfill the pharmaceutical needs of animals. Because the needs of animals, as well as the regulations on veterinary medicine, are often very different from those related to people, veterinary pharmacy is often kept separate from regular pharmacies.\n\nNuclear pharmacy focuses on preparing radioactive materials for diagnostic tests and for treating certain diseases. Nuclear pharmacists undergo additional training specific to handling radioactive materials, and unlike in community and hospital pharmacies, nuclear pharmacists typically do not interact directly with patients.\n\nMilitary pharmacy is an entirely different working environment due to the fact that technicians perform most duties that in a civilian sector would be illegal. State laws of Technician patient counseling and medication checking by a pharmacist do not apply.\n\nPharmacy informatics is the combination of pharmacy practice science and applied information science. Pharmacy informaticists work in many practice areas of pharmacy, however, they may also work in information technology departments or for healthcare information technology vendor companies. As a practice area and specialist domain, pharmacy informatics is growing quickly to meet the needs of major national and international patient information projects and health system interoperability goals. Pharmacists in this area are trained to participate in medication management system development, deployment and optimization.\n\nSpecialty pharmacies supply high cost injectable, oral, infused, or inhaled medications that are used for chronic and complex disease states such as cancer, hepatitis, and rheumatoid arthritis. Unlike a traditional community pharmacy where prescriptions for any common medication can be brought in and filled, specialty pharmacies carry novel medications that need to be properly stored, administered, carefully monitored, and clinically managed. In addition to supplying these drugs, specialty pharmacies also provide lab monitoring, adherence counseling, and assist patients with cost-containment strategies needed to obtain their expensive specialty drugs. It is currently the fastest growing sector of the pharmaceutical industry with 19 of 28 newly FDA approved medications in 2013 being specialty drugs.\n\nDue to the demand for clinicians who can properly manage these specific patient populations, the Specialty Pharmacy Certification Board has developed a new certification exam to certify specialty pharmacists. Along with the 100 question computerized multiple-choice exam, pharmacists must also complete 3,000 hours of specialty pharmacy practice within the past three years as well as 30 hours of specialty pharmacist continuing education within the past two years.\n\nThe pharmaceutical sciences are a group of interdisciplinary areas of study concerned with the design, action, delivery, and disposition of drugs. They apply knowledge from chemistry (inorganic, physical, biochemical and analytical), biology (anatomy, physiology, biochemistry, cell biology, and molecular biology), epidemiology, statistics, chemometrics, mathematics, physics, and chemical engineering.\n\nThe pharmaceutical sciences are further subdivided into several specific specialties, with four main branches:\n\nAs new discoveries advance and extend the pharmaceutical sciences, subspecialties continue to be added to this list. Importantly, as knowledge advances, boundaries between these specialty areas of pharmaceutical sciences are beginning to blur. Many fundamental concepts are common to all pharmaceutical sciences. These shared fundamental concepts further the understanding of their applicability to all aspects of pharmaceutical research and drug therapy.\n\nThe word \"pharmacy\" is derived from Old French \"farmacie\" \"substance, such as a food or in the form of a medicine which has a laxative effect\" from Medieval Latin \"pharmacia\" from Greek \"pharmakeia\" () \"a medicine\", which itself derives from \"pharmakon\" (), meaning \"drug, poison, spell\" (which is etymologically related to \"pharmakos\").\n\nSeparation of prescribing and dispensing, also called dispensing separation, is a practice in medicine and pharmacy in which the physician who provides a medical prescription is independent from the pharmacist who provides the prescription drug.\n\nIn the Western world there are centuries of tradition for separating pharmacists from physicians. In Asian countries it is traditional for physicians to also provide drugs.\n\nIn contemporary time researchers and health policy analysts have more deeply considered these traditions and their effects. Advocates for separation and advocates for combining make similar claims for each of their conflicting perspectives, saying that separating or combining reduces conflict of interest in the healthcare industry, unnecessary health care, and lowers costs, while the opposite causes those things. Research in various places reports mixed outcomes in different circumstances.\n\nIn the coming decades, pharmacists are expected to become more integral within the health care system. Rather than simply dispensing medication, pharmacists are increasingly expected to be compensated for their patient care skills. In particular, Medication Therapy Management (MTM) includes the clinical services that pharmacists can provide for their patients. Such services include the thorough analysis of all medication (prescription, non-prescription, and herbals) currently being taken by an individual. The result is a reconciliation of medication and patient education resulting in increased patient health outcomes and decreased costs to the health care system.\n\nThis shift has already commenced in some countries; for instance, pharmacists in Australia receive remuneration from the Australian Government for conducting comprehensive Home Medicines Reviews. In Canada, pharmacists in certain provinces have limited prescribing rights (as in Alberta and British Columbia) or are remunerated by their provincial government for expanded services such as medications reviews (Medschecks in Ontario). In the United Kingdom, pharmacists who undertake additional training are obtaining prescribing rights and this is because of pharmacy education. They are also being paid for by the government for medicine use reviews. In Scotland the pharmacist can write prescriptions for Scottish registered patients of their regular medications, for the majority of drugs, except for controlled drugs, when the patient is unable to see their doctor, as could happen if they are away from home or the doctor is unavailable. In the United States, pharmaceutical care or clinical pharmacy has had an evolving influence on the practice of pharmacy. Moreover, the Doctor of Pharmacy (Pharm. D.) degree is now required before entering practice and some pharmacists now complete one or two years of residency or fellowship training following graduation. In addition, consultant pharmacists, who traditionally operated primarily in nursing homes are now expanding into direct consultation with patients, under the banner of \"senior care pharmacy.\"\n\nIn addition to patient care, pharmacies will be a focal point for medical adherence initiatives. There is enough evidence to show that integrated pharmacy based initiatives significantly impact adherence for chronic patients. For example, a study published in NIH shows \"pharmacy based interventions improved patients' medication adherence rates by 2.1 percent and increased physicians' initiation rates by 38 percent, compared to the control group\".\n\n\nThe two symbols most commonly associated with pharmacy in English-speaking countries are the mortar and pestle and the ℞ (\"recipere\") character, which is often written as \"Rx\" in typed text. The show globe was also used until the early 20th century. Pharmacy organizations often use other symbols, such as the Bowl of Hygieia which is often used in the Netherlands, conical measures, and caduceuses in their logos. Other symbols are common in different countries: the green Greek cross in France, Argentina, the United Kingdom, Belgium, Ireland, Italy, Spain, and India, the increasingly rare Gaper in the Netherlands, and a red stylized letter A in Germany and Austria (from \"Apotheke\", the German word for pharmacy, from the same Greek root as the English word 'apothecary').\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "472231", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=472231", "title": "Phytochemical", "text": "Phytochemical\n\nPhytochemicals are chemical compounds produced by plants, generally to help them thrive or thwart competitors, predators, or pathogens. The name comes . Some phytochemicals have been used as poisons and others as traditional medicine.\n\nAs a term, \"phytochemicals\" is generally used to describe plant compounds that are under research with unestablished effects on health and are not scientifically defined as essential nutrients. Regulatory agencies governing food labeling in Europe and the United States have provided guidance for industry limiting or preventing health claims about phytochemicals on food product or nutrition labels.\n\nPhytochemicals are chemicals of plant origin. Phytochemicals (from Greek \"phyto\", meaning \"plant\") are chemicals produced by plants through primary or secondary metabolism. They generally have biological activity in the plant host and play a role in plant growth or defense against competitors, pathogens, or predators.\n\nPhytochemicals generally are regarded as research compounds rather than essential nutrients because proof of their possible health effects has not been established yet. Phytochemicals under research can be classified into major categories, such as carotenoids and polyphenols, which include phenolic acids, flavonoids, and stilbenes/lignans. Flavonoids can be further divided into groups based on their similar chemical structure, such as anthocyanins, flavones, flavanones, and isoflavones, and flavanols. Flavanols further are classified as catechins, epicatechins, and proanthocyanidins.\n\nPhytochemists study phytochemicals by first extracting and isolating compounds from the origin plant, followed by defining their structure or testing in laboratory model systems, such as cell cultures, in vitro experiments, or in vivo studies using laboratory animals. Challenges in that field include isolating specific compounds and determining their structures, which are often complex, and identifying what specific phytochemical is primarily responsible for any given biological activity.\n\nWithout specific knowledge of their cellular actions or mechanisms, phytochemicals have been used as poison and in traditional medicine. For example, salicin, having anti-inflammatory and pain-relieving properties, was originally extracted from the bark of the white willow tree and later synthetically produced to become the common, over-the-counter drug, aspirin. The tropane alkaloids of \"A. belladonna\" were used as poisons, and early humans made poisonous arrows from the plant. In Ancient Rome, it was used as a poison by Agrippina the Younger, wife of Emperor Claudius on advice of Locusta, a lady specialized in poisons, and Livia, who is rumored to have used it to kill her husband Emperor Augustus.\n\nThe English yew tree was long known to be extremely and immediately toxic to animals that grazed on its leaves or children who ate its berries; however, in 1971, paclitaxel was isolated from it, subsequently becoming an important cancer drug.\n\nAs of 2017, the biological activities for most phytochemicals are unknown or poorly understood, in isolation or as part of foods. Phytochemicals with established roles in the body are classified as essential nutrients.\n\nThe phytochemical category includes compounds recognized as essential nutrients, which are naturally contained in plants and are required for normal physiological functions, so must be obtained from the diet in humans.\n\nSome phytochemicals are known phytotoxins that are toxic to humans; for example aristolochic acid is carcinogenic at low doses. Some phytochemicals are antinutrients that interfere with the absorption of nutrients. Others, such as some polyphenols and flavonoids, may be pro-oxidants in high ingested amounts.\n\nNondigestible dietary fibers from plant foods, often considered as a phytochemical, are now generally regarded as a nutrient group having approved health claims for reducing the risk of some types of cancer and coronary heart disease.\n\nEating a diet high in fruits, vegetables, grains, legumes and plant-based beverages has long-term health benefits, but there is no evidence that taking dietary supplements of non-nutrient phytochemicals extracted from plants similarly benefits health. Phytochemical supplements are neither recommended by health authorities for improving health nor approved by regulatory agencies for health claims on product labels.\n\nWhile health authorities encourage consumers to eat diets rich in fruit, vegetables, whole grains, legumes, and nuts to improve and maintain health, evidence that such effects result from specific, non-nutrient phytochemicals is limited or absent. For example, systematic reviews and/or meta-analyses indicate weak or no evidence for phytochemicals from plant food consumption having an effect on breast, lung, or bladder cancers. Further, in the United States, regulations exist to limit the language on product labels for how plant food consumption may affect cancers, excluding mention of any phytochemical except for those with established health benefits against cancer, such as dietary fiber, vitamin A, and vitamin C.\n\nPhytochemicals, such as polyphenols, have been specifically discouraged from food labeling in Europe and the United States because there is no evidence for a cause-and-effect relationship between dietary polyphenols and inhibition or prevention of any disease.\n\nAmong carotenoids such as the tomato phytochemical, lycopene, the US Food and Drug Administration found insufficient evidence for its effects on any of several cancer types, resulting in limited language for how products containing lycopene can be described on labels.\n\nPhytochemicals in freshly harvested plant foods may be degraded by processing techniques, including cooking. The main cause of phytochemical loss from cooking is thermal decomposition.\n\nA converse exists in the case of carotenoids, such as lycopene present in tomatoes, which may remain stable or increase in content from cooking due to liberation from cellular membranes in the cooked food. Food processing techniques like mechanical processing can also free carotenoids and other phytochemicals from the food matrix, increasing dietary intake.\n\nIn some cases, processing of food is necessary to remove phytotoxins or antinutrients; for example societies that use cassava as a staple have traditional practices that involve some processing (soaking, cooking, fermentation, etc.), which are necessary to avoid getting sick from cyanogenic glycosides present in unprocessed cassava.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "19337262", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19337262", "title": "Pole dance", "text": "Pole dance\n\nPole dance combines dance and acrobatics centered on a vertical pole. This performance art form takes place not only in gentleman's clubs as erotic dance, but has also recently gained popularity as a mainstream form of fitness, practiced by many enthusiasts in gyms and in dedicated dance studios. Amateur and professional pole dancing competitions are held in countries around the world.\n\nPole dance requires significant muscular endurance and coordination (as well as sensuality, in exotic dancing). Today, pole performances by exotic dancers range from basic spins and striptease in more intimate clubs, to athletic moves such as climbs and body inversions in the \"stage heavy\" clubs of Las Vegas and Miami. Dancer Remy Redd at the King of Diamonds, for example, is famous for flipping herself upside down into a split and hanging from the ceiling. Pole dance requires significant strength and flexibility. Upper body and core strength are required to attain proficiency, proper instruction, and rigorous training is necessary.\nSince the mid 2000s, promoters of pole dance fitness competitions have been trying to change peoples' perception of pole dance to include pole fitness as a non-sexual form of dance and acrobatics, and are trying to move pole into the Olympics as pole sports.\n\nPole dance is regarded as a form of exercise which can be used as both an aerobic and anaerobic workout. Recognized schools and qualifications are now commonplace.\n\nThe use of pole for sports and exercise has been traced back at least eight hundred years to the traditional Indian sport of mallakhamb, which utilizes principles of endurance and strength using a wooden pole, wider in diameter than a modern standard pole. The Chinese pole, originating in India, uses two poles on which men would perform \"gravity defying tricks\" as they leap from pole to pole, at approximately twenty feet in the air, further information can be seen in the old vintage documentary series of mallakhamb, by yasho purush film on YouTube.\n\nPole dance in America has its roots in the \"Little Egypt\" traveling sideshows of the 1890s, which featured sensual \"Kouta Kouta\" or \"Hoochie Coochie\" belly dances, performed mostly by Ghawazi dancers making their first appearance in America. In an era where women dressed modestly in corsets, the dancers, dressed in short skirts and richly adorned in jewelry, caused quite a stir. During the 1920s, dancers introduced pole by sensually gyrating on the wooden tent poles to attract crowds. Eventually the pole dancing moved from tents to bars, and combined with burlesque dance. Since the 1980s, pole dancing has incorporated athletic moves such as climbs, spins, and inversions into striptease routines, first in Canada and then in the United States. In the 1990s, pole dancing commenced to be taught as an art by Fawnia Mondey, a Canadian who moved to Las Vegas, US. She created the first pole training video to use in fitness exercises. Since then, pole dancing classes have become a popular form of recreational and competitive sport, practiced and performed in a variety of sexual, non-sexual, and athletic settings.\n\nK.T. Coates, a famed competitive pole dancer, and the International Pole Sports Federation, are currently promoting a campaign to include competitive pole dance in the Olympics and an application was made to the International Olympic Committee to recognise pole as a sport in September 2016. Numerous competitions exist, including the World Pole Sport Championship, U.S. Pole Federation Championship, Pole Art, Miss Pole Dance America, and the International Pole Masters Cup Championship.\n\nThe standard dance pole typically consists of a hollow chrome, steel, or brass pole with a circular cross section, running from floor to ceiling. Affixing at the ceiling gives more stability, but is not always realized, especially at night clubs with higher ceilings or at transportable devices. In most countries, including the United States, the diameter is usually 50 mm (2 inches), or the now more popular 45 mm (1.75 inches), allowing it to be gripped comfortably with one hand. In Asia, the diameter is usually 45 mm or less. In Australia a 38 mm pole is popular.\n\nThere are a variety of different dance pole types to suit different performance situations. Dance poles can be permanent or portable, be different sizes, have spinning and/or static modes and they have different coatings or made from different materials.\n\nDance poles that are permanent are fixed to the ceiling supported by a beam located the roof and they are fixated to the floor by different brackets and bearings. The way poles are fixed to the ceiling and the floor varies by which pole brand is purchased. Portable poles are attached to a base or a portable stage and do not need to be attached to the ceiling. These poles can easily be removed, dismantled and transported into cases to different locations.\n\nPoles come in a variety of diameters – 50 mm, 48 mm, 45 mm, 42 mm, 40 mm and 38 mm. Diameters normally depend on personal preferences and what the pole will be used for e.g. competitions or studio use.\n\nDance poles have two different modes, spinning and static. The spinning mode is when the pole uses ball bearings to spin. This mode can be used to complete more experienced pole moves, make moves easier to complete and to add a more dramatic effect to the move. Most spinning poles can be fixed to static too. The static mode is when the pole cannot rotate and is in a fixed position. The static mode is regularly used when pole dancing is first taught as beginners have little confidence.\n\nPoles come in a variety of materials and coatings where each material possesses its own properties, advantages and disadvantages. The materials poles are made of are brass, titanium – gold, stainless steel and chrome. The brass and titanium – gold poles are gold in colour and are used to enhance the grip between the pole and the dancer, these poles are normally used by more advanced dancers. The stainless steel poles aren’t as popular as the other types as they do not have the finest grip however, they are used by dancers who have sensitive skin. The chrome poles are silver in colour and are most popular amongst beginners. The finishes some dance poles may possess are silicone sleeves and powder coatings. Silicone sleeves can provide maximum grip, however, there are safety precautions dancers must take and consider before using silicone sleeves. These measures can include a great amount of clothing to be worn by the dancer and only static moves can be performed. Poles that are coated in powder can provide the best friction and maximum grip for dancers.\n\nProducts such as chalk, \"Dry Hands\" or \"iTac\" may be used to help \"stick\" to the pole. Competitions can limit which products performers use.\n\nThere are now poles available for use in clubs that provide visual effects. These poles are made with clear plastics and contain water, glitter, and special reflective materials which stand out when used in conjunction with strobe lighting, as well as lighting hidden in their base joists. However, these poles are not favorable to a dancer wanting to achieve better pole tricks, as they bend slightly and have a tendency to create a friction burn when slid down with any sort of speed.\n\nPole dancing has gained popularity as a form of exercise with increased awareness of the benefits to general strength and fitness. These forms of exercise increases core and general body strength by using the body itself as resistance, while toning the body as a whole. A typical pole dance exercise regimen in class begins with strength training, dance-based moves, squats, push-ups, and sit-ups and gradually works its way up to the spins, climbs and inversions which are the métier of the exercise.\nPole dancing is also generally reported by its schools to be empowering for women in terms of building self-confidence, in terms of which its erotic components are still the subject of some controversy. Some feminists argue that sexualized dancing of this kind cannot be seen as empowering because the choice to participate is not made in freedom from constraining power structures, especially given the performative aspect of many classes.\n\nA growing number of men are incorporating pole dancing into their fitness programmes. In Australia, the UK and the US, dance studios are beginning to offer classes just for men. And in China, 2007's National Pole Dancing competition was won by a man. Dance instructor Zhang Peng, 23, beat a host of women dancers to the top prize.\n\nSince 2003, pole dancing has been transitioning from an exotic performance to a recreational activity. Pole dancing as a sport differs from pole dancing as a recreation as recreational pole dancing is undertaken mainly for enjoyment rather than fitness. Recreational pole dancing can be seen as empowering to women as it can make women feel positively about themselves. This is because pole dancing builds confidence, power and is a way to express one’s self. When pole dancing is undertaken for enjoyment the idea of an exotic performance specifically for titillation is enhanced. Whilst undertaking pole class women will learn a variety of different ways to use the pole to execute spins, tricks, climbs and hangs. Check all studios' credentials before committing to a pole dance studio. It is common knowledge that as the difficulty of tricks and spins increase, so do the levels.\n\nPole dance competitions began in the United States with the Deja Vu chain of strip clubs in 1991 with an event called the Po'Lympics which was held annually throughout the decade. These competitions led to the creation of numerous other competitions that followed, both in the strip club industry and fitness.\n\nA wide range of amateur and professional competitions are held in many countries around the world. They are strictly non-nude and focus on pole dance as an athletic and artistic form of dance and fitness. The first \"Miss Pole Dance World\" competition was held in November 2005 in Amsterdam and Elena Gibson from the UK won the championship. The following day Elena was disqualified by the organizer John Benner amongst much controversy and the title went to the runner up Reiko Suemune from Japan.\n\nA group of advocates even pushed for pole dance to be represented as a test event in the 2012 London Olympics. However, since this is a relatively new trend, there is no standardized scoring for competitions and technique descriptions vary among clubs in different regions.\n\nIn Australia, In 2005, the \"Miss Pole Dance Australia\" competition commenced. The latest competition winner was Carlie Hunter from South Australia, who took home the championship title in 2016. The next championship will be for Miss Pole Dance Australia 2018 will be located in Sydney on 4 November 2016.\n\nThe Australian \"Mr Pole Dance\" competition commenced in 2013. The latest competition winner was Adam Lin from Australia in 2016. This competition is the only male pole competition in the world. \"Mr Pole Dance America\" commenced its first competition from 4 to 6 November 2016 in Massachusetts.\n\nThe \"Double Vision\" Pole Championships in Australia are the only doubles pole competition in the world which can feature female, male and mixed pairs. The latest competition was held in 2016 where an all-female pair Narelle and Charlie took home the championship. \n\nThe first US Pole Dance Federation (USPDF) Championship was held on March 19, 2009, first place was taken by Jenyne Butterfly. The 2010 winner of \"Miss Pole Dance Canada\" was Crystal Lai, who went on to win the People's Choice Award at the worlds.\n\nWorld Pole Sport & Fitness 2009 (World Pole Dance) is a competition opened to all nationalities and all continents. The 2009 event in Jamaica was won by Cane, and she successfully defended her title in the 2010 Swiss event. For 2011 the event took place in Budapest and was won by Belarusian Alesia Vazmitsel.\n\nIn 1993, in Madonna's world tour The Girlie Show, dancer Carrie Ann Inaba performed on a tall go-go pole as an intro to the show. This was followed by Madonna's performance of \"Erotica\".\n\nPole dancing, which has been featured on \"Desperate Housewives\" and \"The View\", like other exercise trends has its share of celebrity following.\nJennifer Love Hewitt had a short pole dancing stint in an episode of \"Ghost Whisperer\".\nActress Sheila Kelley was so taken with the sport, which she learned whilst preparing for her role in \"Dancing at the Blue Iguana\", that she launched her own pole-based exercise programme.\n\nRima Fakih's victory at Miss USA 2010, including the fact that she had won a pole-dancing competition three years earlier, attracted media attention.\n\nTaiwanese pop singer Jolin Tsai showed her pole dancing skills in the music videos of \"Agent J\" and \"Beast\". She also gave a double pole-dancing live performance during her Myself World Tour in Kaohsiung, Taiwan.\n\nPole dance has its own media, the magazines \"Free Spin\", \"Pole Spin\" and \"Vertical\".\n\nPole dance is also the main subject of a popular webcomic titled, \"Pole Dancing Adventures\" created by artist, Leen Isabel.\n\nIn the video game \"Bayonetta\", the titular character use pole dancing in means to advance to the next area or combat her foes. In the ending credit to the game, she is seen dancing on the pole. If you get a platinum award, you'll hear her say \"I should have been a pole dancer\".\n\nPole dancing has been incorporated in the performances of some K-Pop Idols. Ga-In of the Brown Eyed Girls included a few shots of her pole dancing in the music video of her 2012 solo single 피어나 (Bloom). Girl group After School used pole dancing extensively as part of the dance routine for their 2013 song 첫사랑 (First Love).\n\nRihanna's hit single from 2013 \"Pour it up\" featured Professional Pole Dancer Nicole 'The Pole' Williams. Nicole also danced to Bruno Mars \"Gorilla\" at the MTV EMAs 2013.\n\nIn 2015, Celebrity Health & Fitness magazine reported \"royal bodyguards\" as saying that Catherine, Duchess of Cambridge took pole dancing lessons to lose weight after giving birth to Prince George in 2013.\n\nIn 2016, Daily Dot ran a story which covered the attempt by some pole dancers to distance themselves from strippers, with their story \"Strippers Talk Back to the hashtag #Notastripper\". The story utilized the hashtag \"yes a stripper\" in support of the origins of pole dance. On the social media platform Instagram, some pole dancers try to differentiate between their exercise method, and the origin of the method, by using \"not a stripper\" as a hashtag. The hashtag can be viewed as derogatory, and pole dancing strippers utilize \"yes a stripper\" as a defense against the denigration of their style of dance, which is created and used in strip clubs.\n\nAlthough mostly associated with fitness classes for women, pole dance or pole sport has been gaining popularity among men and many competitions include a male division, including the highly prestigious PoleArt and World Pole Sports Championship.\n\n\nNotes\n"}
{"id": "12751414", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12751414", "title": "Pregnant patients' rights", "text": "Pregnant patients' rights\n\nPregnant patients rights refers to the choices and legal rights available to a mother experiencing pregnancy or childbirth. Specifically those under medical care within a medical establishment or those under the care of a medical professional regardless of location ( under care of paramedics at home, family doctor via phone, etc. ).\n\nThere are many debates that arise from pregnancy rights, ranging from whether or not fertility treatments are ‘right’ or whether using surrogate mothers is wrong. It comes down to the mother’s right. As a woman, there are more challenges than just the fundamentals of the decisions surrounding their pregnancy. Maternity leave, parental leave and the time allotted for these leaves varies from company to company.\n\nThe International Conference on Population and Development (ICPD) gathered in Cairo in September 1994 to discuss and “formulate a consensus position on population and development for the next 20 years”. One of the other goals was to make education and medical services available to women while they are pregnant, and when the time comes, have delivery options available. A main concern has always been postnatal care; people think that the hardest part is the birth of the child but there are so many additional concerns once the child is born and brought into this world. Complications both prior to pregnancy, during delivery, and after delivery are a potential concern in all births, the ICPD talked about enhancing the available support for all women. Pregnancy rights throughout the world are not going to be the same in every single place but the ICPD is aiming to eliminate discrimination during pregnancy and make all pregnant patients’ rights available to everyone.\n\nNurses and patients sometimes run into troubles because their opinions will often vary in what they think should be done in terms of termination or pre/post natal care. As Kane, 2009 states “The NMC code of professional conduct states that: ‘you must make the care of people your first concern”’ enforcing that the nurses opinions really should be kept to themselves so as to not influence the decision of the patients.\n\nIn Australia pregnant women have the same rights as any other member of society. However, they do have some extra rights when it comes to their rights in the workforce.\n\nUnder the Fair Work Act 2009 section pregnant women are still entitled to the same amount of sick leave as any other individual as being pregnant does not classify as an illness. A Pregnant woman however is able to take unpaid leave for \"special maternity leave\", this is maternity leave that she can take if she has a pregnancy related illness or the pregnancy ends any time after the first trimester due to a miscarriage, a stillbirth or a termination.\n\nSafe jobs is when the women moves to a safer job while being because her original job is dangerous to her and the baby. She will need to provide evidence that she can still work but unable to perform the original tasks and how long she shouldn't work in her job for. An example for proving these would be with a medical certificate. In the circumstances where there is no safer jobs to offer the women can take no safe jobs leave. The employee takes paid leave if she is entitled to unpaid parental leave and unpaid leave if she is not.\n\nDiscrimination in the workforce against pregnant women is illegal. This means that she can not be fired, lose hours, demoted and treated differently because of her pregnancy.\n\nIn Australia the laws on termination change between each state and territory. In Western Australia termination is considered lawful up until 20 weeks of pregnancy. A termination after 20 weeks can only be undertaken if there is two medical practitioners from a panel of six that agree that the women or the fetus has or will have a serious medical condition if the pregnancy continued.\n\nDuring pregnancy, women have the right to seek getting immunised with the influenza vaccine \"Flu Shot\" and the adult dTpa vaccine (pertussis). Both of these vaccines are recommended however it is up to the individual whether or not to go ahead with the vaccinations. \n5. Federal Register of Legislation. (2009). \"Fair Work act. R\"etrieved from https://www.legislation.gov.au/Details/C2016C00332\n\n6. Federal Register of Legislation. (2003). \"Sex Discrimination Amendment (pregnancy and work) act.\" Retrieved from https://www.legislation.gov.au/Details/C2004A01186\n\n7. Parliament of Australia.(1998). \"Abortion law in Australia\". Retrieved from http://www.aph.gov.au/About_Parliament/Parliamentary_Departments/Parliamentary_Library/pubs/rp/rp9899/99rp01\n\n8. Australian Government Department of Health. (2015) \"Immunise Australia Program.\" Retrieved from <nowiki>http://www.immunise.health.gov.au/internet/immunise/publishing.nsf/Content/pregnant-women</nowiki>\n"}
{"id": "4848207", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4848207", "title": "Project HOPE", "text": "Project HOPE\n\nProject HOPE (Health Opportunities for People Everywhere) is an international health care organization founded in the United States in 1958. Its most visible project was the SS \"HOPE\", the first peacetime hospital ship (converted from the USS \"Consolation\" (AH-15)). The SS \"HOPE\" was retired in 1974, after sailing to Indonesia, South Vietnam, Peru, Ecuador, Guinea, Nicaragua, Colombia, Ceylon (Sri Lanka), Tunisia, Jamaica, and Brazil. On these voyages doctors, nurses, and technical staff provided medical care and training to people in each country visited.\n\nThe SS \"HOPE\" was not replaced, and emphasis switched entirely to land-based operations. Today there are organizations in Germany and the United Kingdom, in addition to the original organization in the United States. \nProject HOPE helps different developing countries in efforts to eradicate infectious diseases like HIV/AIDS and tuberculosis. They also help educate parents on how to prevent and treat diseases for their children and themselves, and also train health professionals. \nProject HOPE also sets up village health banks, which give small loans to women so they can improve their health and family's health. The village health banks also educate women on health.\n\nProject HOPE is headquartered at Carter Hall in Millwood, Virginia.\n\nProject HOPE works to achieve sustainable advances in health care around the world by implementing health education programs and providing humanitarian assistance in areas of need. Project HOPE is unique among international organizations in that we have always worked across the health spectrum in a wide variety of settings, from the family and community levels to the tertiary care level, training traditional birth attendants and community health volunteers where resources are limited and cardiac surgeons and biomedical engineers where technology is appropriate. Project HOPE addresses infectious diseases, health professional education, women's and children's health, humanitarian assistance, and the need for health systems and facilities.\n\nProject HOPE has programs in the following countries:\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "57559189", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57559189", "title": "Ramsey Cottage Hospital", "text": "Ramsey Cottage Hospital\n\nRamsey Cottage Hospital is a small hospital in Ramsey, Isle of Man.\n\nBefore the establishment of the Manx Health Service in 1948 it was a voluntary hospital. Medical care was provided, apart from specialist services, by the local general practitioners and paid for by a beddage fund. At that time it had a modern and well-equipped operating theatre and in the year to October 1947, 203 operations were performed.\n\nThere was a Maternity Home in Ramsey, in Brookhill Road, which closed in 1947.\n"}
{"id": "19417962", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19417962", "title": "Reykjavík-Rotterdam", "text": "Reykjavík-Rotterdam\n\nReykjavík-Rotterdam is an Icelandic film directed by Óskar Jónasson and starring Baltasar Kormákur.\n\nKristofer is working as a security guard. He was fired from the freight ship on which he worked when he was caught smuggling alcohol. Faced with money problems, he is tempted to accept the help of his friend, Steingrimur, who manages to pull some strings to get his old job back aboard the \"MV Dettifoss\". He decides to take his chances one last time on a tour to Rotterdam to bring alcohol back on the return journey to Iceland. While in Rotterdam, his brother-in-law Arnor steals the money intended for the alcohol purchase, and buys ecstasy with it. The alcohol sellers force Kristofer to take part in a violent art theft; he escapes in the confusion during a shootout with the police.\n\nMeanwhile, back in Iceland, Kristofer's wife Iris is threatened by three men, who trash her flat and then her place of work. She accepts Steingrimur's offer to stay with him until Kristofer returns. Steingrimur, with whom she was once involved, tries to seduce her, and as she tries to escape, he knocks her unconscious and, thinking that he has killed her, attempts to dispose of her body.\n\nThe \"Detttifoss\" returns. Customs search the vessel, but no contraband is found. Arnor believes that Kristofer has thrown the ecstasy and the alcohol overboard and attempts to escape from the gangsters expecting the consignment. Kristofer has planted the ecstasy in the car of the captain of the \"Dettifoss\", and sets up the gangsters to be intercepted at the captain's house. Iris survived Steingrimur's attack, and Kristofer locates her just as Steingrimur is attempting to bury her in concrete at the construction site he works at. Out at sea, Kristofer's friends locate the alcohol.\n\nThe film was released on 3 October 2008. It was broadcast (dubbed in German) on German television ARD on 1 January 2010.\n\n\"Reykjavík-Rotterdam\" is one of the biggest-budget Icelandic films of all-time, and features an all-star cast of Icelandic cinema. The film garnered a four-star rating from \"Morgunblaðið\", and has a 'fresh' rating of 8.2/10 at Rottentomatoes.com.\n\nThe film won five Edda Awards, including best script, director, editing, sound, and music:\n\nAn Icelandic Film and Television Academy committee chose \"Reykjavík-Rotterdam\" to be Iceland's submission to the Academy of Motion Picture Arts and Sciences for the 82nd Academy Awards for Best Foreign Language Film, though it failed to receive an Oscar nomination.\n\n\"Variety\", after a 2010 screening at the Palm Springs International Film Festival called it a \"straightforward product from much of the team behind Baltasar Kormákur's considerably more eccentric \"Jar City\"\" and an \"uncommonly commercial item with brawny action, strokes of humor and a besieged rooting interest (played effectively by Kormákur).\"\n\nWorking Title Films released a U.S. remake entitled \"Contraband\" starring and produced by Mark Wahlberg. The original film's lead actor, Baltasar Kormákur—a successful director in his home country of Iceland—took on the role of director.\n\n"}
{"id": "18302524", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18302524", "title": "Saint Francis Hospital &amp; Medical Center", "text": "Saint Francis Hospital &amp; Medical Center\n\nSaint Francis Hospital & Medical Center is a 617-bed acute care hospital located on Woodland Street in Hartford, Connecticut. The hospital was established in 1897 by the Sisters of Saint Joseph of Chambéry. With 617 beds and 65 bassinets, it is the largest Catholic hospital in New England.\n\nSaint Francis has been affiliated with Mount Sinai Hospital since 1990. This was the first recorded instance of collaboration between a Catholic hospital and a Jewish hospital in United States. The two institutions formalized the corporate merger in 1995. In addition, the hospital maintains affiliations with Saint Mary's Hospital, Waterbury, which is independently licensed. Saint Francis, a regional referral center, has major clinical concentrations in cardiology, oncology, orthopedics, women's services and rehabilitation.\n\nIn 2008, they broke ground on the ten story addition, the John T. O'Connell Tower. Opened in March 2011, this addition included 19 replacement operating rooms, 72 replacement medical/surgical patient beds, and a Helipad on the roof of the building. It includes six orthopedic operating rooms and sixty-three replacement inpatient orthopedic beds for the Connecticut Joint Replacement Institute. Also featuring an enlarged emergency department, expanding the treatment area from forty-nine to sixty-eight treatment bays and increasing space for ambulances from six to ten parking spots.\n\nIn January 2012, Saint Francis Hospital and Medical Center received its second PureCell System's Model 400 phosphoric acid fuel cell, which will provide power to the Mount Sinai Rehabilitation Hospital campus. The 400 kW PureCell System will provide nearly half of the building’s electrical needs as well as providing thermal energy; the installation prevents the release of more than 383 metric tons of carbon dioxide annually – the equivalent of planting more than 88 acres of trees, the hospital claims.\n\nIn 2018, Saint Francis Hospital and Medical Center was verified by the American College of Surgeons as a Level I Trauma Center, the highest-level status for trauma care.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4770414", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4770414", "title": "Sulfur water", "text": "Sulfur water\n\nSulfur water (or sulphur water) is a condition where the running water contains a high amount of hydrogen sulfide gas that escapes into the air when the plumbing line is opened, giving a distinct \"rotten egg\" smell. \n\nThe condition indicates a high level of sulfate-reducing bacteria in the water supply. This may be due to the use of well water, poorly treated city water, or water heater contamination.\n\nVarious methods exist to treat sulfur in water. These methods include\n\nBathing in water high in sulfur or other minerals for its presumed health benefits is known as balneotherapy.\n\nAccording to The Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) and the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC), drinking water with high levels of sulfate can cause diarrhea, especially in infants.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "51934584", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51934584", "title": "Timeline of healthcare in South Africa", "text": "Timeline of healthcare in South Africa\n\nThis is a timeline of healthcare in South Africa, focusing especially on modern science-based medicine healthcare. Major events such as policies and organizations are described.\n\n"}
{"id": "29547322", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29547322", "title": "Today sponge", "text": "Today sponge\n\nThe Today sponge is a brand of plastic contraceptive sponge saturated with a spermicide nonoxynol-9 to prevent conception. Within two years of its launch, Today had become the largest selling over-the-counter female contraceptive in the United States, and was soon rolled out into other markets.\n\nThe Today sponge dates back to 1976 when it was created by Bruce Ward Vorhauer. Vorhauer struggled for seven years to get the device approved and on the market. Following FDA approval, the brand was rolled out in June 1983. The product, manufactured by VLI Corp. of Irvine, California, was classified as \"relatively safe\" by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) in 1984. A 1984 study in the \"American Journal of Obstetrics and Gynecology\" compared it with the diaphragm and found that the Today sponge was a \"safe and acceptable method of contraception with an effectiveness rate in the range of other vaginal contraceptives.\" The Today sponge also broke the barrier in several markets for advertising contraceptive devices. \n\nThe Today sponge \"was manufactured until 1995, when FDA imposed new manufacturing standards.\" The product had several setbacks while marketed, including a link to toxic shock syndrome. Personal financial problems forced Vorhauer to sell the entire manufacturing operation to American Home Products, now Wyeth. Almost the entire content of the facility was moved to the Whitehall-Robbins facility in Hammonton, New Jersey from its original California home. The sponge was removed from the U.S. market in 1994 after problems were found at the facility related to the deionized water system. The water system, which was originally sized for much larger production, could not produce the small amounts of deionized water required for this one product and became repeatedly contaminated. Based on slumping sales and to avoid any further FDA issues, Wyeth stopped selling the sponge rather than move production or modify its plant. \n\nIn 1998, Allendale Pharmaceuticals acquired the rights to the Today sponge and it was once again available. New FDA standards for manufacturing and record-keeping forced repeated delays, but the Today sponge was finally re-introduced in Canada in March 2003, and in the U.S. in September 2005. In January 2007, Allendale Pharmaceuticals was acquired by Synova Healthcare, Inc. In December 2007 Synova filed for bankruptcy reorganization; in 2008 the manufacturing rights to the Today sponge were purchased by Alvogen. In mid May 2009, Mayer Laboratories, Inc. the distributor of the Today Vaginal Contraceptive Sponge for the US, Canada and the EU, announced the Today Sponge had been re-launched in the United States.\n\nA 1995 \"Seinfeld\" episode, \"The Sponge\", revolved around Elaine's attempts to procure her favorite form of birth control, the discontinued Today sponge, and her rationing them based on whether a potential partner was \"sponge-worthy\". This was later revisited in the series finale when the pharmacist testifies against Elaine for buying a case of sponges.\n\n"}
{"id": "36014836", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36014836", "title": "Tuberculosis in India", "text": "Tuberculosis in India\n\nIn India, each year, approx. 220,000 deaths are reported due to Tuberculosis. Between 2006 and 2014, the disease cost Indian economy USD 340 billion. This public health problem is the world's largest tuberculosis epidemic.\nIndia bears a disproportionately large burden of the world's tuberculosis rates, as it continues to be the biggest health problem in India. It remains one of the largest on India's health and wellness scale. India is the highest TB burden country with World Health Organization (WHO) statistics for 2011 giving an estimated incidence figure of 2.2 million cases of TB for India out of a global incidence of 9.6 million cases. Compare India to Canada, where there are about 1,600 new cases of TB every year. Citing studies of TB-drug sales, the government now suggests the total went from being 2.2 million to 2.6 million people nationwide. Tuberculosis is India's biggest health issue, but what makes this issue worse is the recently discovered phenomenon of TDR-TB - Totally Drug-Resistant Tuberculosis. This issue of drug-resistant TB began with MDR-TB, and moved on to XDR-TB. Gradually, the most dangerous form has situated itself in India as TDR-TB.\n\nTuberculosis is one of India's major public health problems. According to WHO estimates, India has the world's largest tuberculosis epidemic.\nMany research studies have shown the effects and concerns revolving around TDR-TB, especially in India; where social and economic positions are still in progression. In Zarir Udwadia’s report originated from the Hinduja Hospital in Mumbai, India explicitly discusses the drug-resistant effects and results. An experiment was conducted in January, 2012 on four patients to test how accurate the “new category” of TDR-TB is. These patients were given all the first-line drugs and second-line drugs that usually are prescribed to treat TB, and as a result were resistant to all. As a response, the government of India had stayed in denial, but WHO took it as a more serious matter and decided that although the patterns of drug-resistance were evident, they cannot rely on just that to create a new category of TDR-TB.\n\n\"\"Paul Nunn, coordinator of WHO's STOP TB department in Geneva, described the cases as “a wake up call for countries to accelerate provision of proper care, particularly for multi drug-resistant patients”\".\n\nThe bacterium that causes TB is called Mycobacterium tuberculosis. Inactive tuberculosis means that one can even unconsciously and unknowingly acquire the bacteria for tuberculosis within them but not even know about it because it is \"inactive\". Whereas, active tuberculosis is the start of the bacteria developing, and the signs and symptoms begin to be visible. This is when tuberculosis is \"active\" within you, and is a serious issue leading to even more serious results. Although the TB bacteria can infect any organ (e.g., kidney, lymph nodes, bones, joints) in the body, the disease commonly occurs in the lungs. Around 80% of all TB cases are related to pulmonary or lung.\n\nCommon symptoms include:\n\nThere is a specific bacterium that evolves inside the body to result in tuberculosis, known as mycobacterium tuberculosis. This bacterium is only spread throughout the body when a person has an active TB infection. One of many causes of acquiring TB is living a life with a weak immune system; everything becomes fragile, and an easy target. That is why babies, children and senior adults have a higher risk of adapting TB. The bacterium spreads in the air sacs, and passes off into the lungs, resulting in an infected immune system.\n\nIn addition, coughing, sneezing, and even talking to someone can release the mycobacterium into the air, consequently affecting the people breathing this air. It has been stated that your chances of becoming infected are higher if you come from – or travel to – certain countries where TB is common, and where there is a big proportion of homeless people. India, being the largest country with diagnosed patients, falls under this cause because it stands recognized as consuming a higher chance of gaining TB.\n\nThose listed are all the bodily and personal causes of acquiring TB, but tuberculosis in India is rich in its high rates because of the pollution dispersed throughout the country. Pollution causes many effects in the air the people breathe there, and since TB can be gained through air, the chances of TB remain high and in a consistent movement going uphill for India.\n\nAnother major cause for the growth of TB in India has to do with it currently still standing as a developing country. Because its economy is still developing, the citizens are still fighting for their rights, and the structure of the country lies in poor evidence that it is not fit as other countries still. TB rises high in India because of the majority of people not being able to afford the treatment drugs prescribed to diagnosed patients. \"“At present, only the 1.5 million patients already under the Indian government's care get free treatments for regular TB. That leaves patients who seek treatment in India's growing private sector to buy drugs for themselves, and most struggle to do that, government officials say.”\" Consequently, high priced treatment drugs and the struggles of “poor patients” also brawl through the poor treatment they receive in response to acquiring TB. \"“It is estimated that just 16% of patients with drug-resistant TB are receiving appropriate treatment”\". To combat this huge problem, India has instated a new program to try to provide free drugs to all those infected in the country. Lastly, as high pricing is linked to the economic standings of India, which is linked to poor treatment, it all underlines the lack of education and background information practitioners and professionals hold for prescribing drugs, or those private therapy sessions. A study conducted in Mumbai by Udwadia, Amale, Ajbani, and Rodrigues, showed that only 5 of 106 private practitioners practicing in a crowded area called Dharavi could prescribe a correct prescription for a hypothetical patient with MDR tuberculosis.\n\nDiagnosis\n\nAny person who has signs and symptoms suggestive of TB including a cough for more than 2 weeks, significant weight loss, haemoptysis (coughing blood) etc. and any abnormality in a chest radiograph should be evaluated to find out if they have TB.\n\nChildren with a persistent fever and/or cough for more than 2 weeks, children who have a loss of weight or no weight gain, and/or children who are household contacts of people who have already been diagnosed as having pulmonary TB must be evaluated for TB.\n\nPeople living with HIV (PLHIV), people who are malnourished, who have diabetes or cancer, and people on steroid therapy should be regularly screened for signs and symptoms suggestive of TB. Enhanced case finding should be undertaken in certain “high risk” populations such as healthcare workers, prisoners, slum dwellers. There should also be enhanced case finding in certain occupational groups such as mineworkers, as in some countries such as South Africa, there is known to be a high level of TB among miners.Enhanced case finding means having a high level of suspicion for TB in all encounters. Then excluding TB (or indeed identifying TB) using a combination of clinical queries, radiographic and microbiologic testing.\n\nThere are a number of diagnostic TB tests currently available.\n\nAll patients who have presumptive (that is are presumed to have) TB and who are capable of producing sputum, should undergo a sputum test for rapid microbiological diagnosis of TB. These are two type of test 1) by LJ (solid) Method 2) MGIT (liquid) Method\n\nWhere available chest X-ray should be used as a screening tool.\n\nThe CB NAAT is known as the GeneXpert in most countries other than India. This is the preferred first diagnostic test in children and people with TB and HIV co-infection.\n\nSputum tests are very important in diagnosing TB, so paying attention to the detail of collecting a good sputum sample is very important. A number of studies have looked at this, and the general view is that two samples are almost as good as three samples.\n\nBinocular microscopes are used for testing TB samples and the diagnosis of TB in India\n\nMethods of testing using sputum samples include sputum smear microscopy (both conventional and fluorescent), culture (on solid or liquid media) commercial line probe asssay (LPA) or CB-NAAT. With the advent of CB_NAAT the sensitivity and specificity of rapid diagnosis from sputum, has increased to approximately the levels seen in solid-media sputum culture, but of course the time scales, at just a few hours, are very much shorter with CB-NAAT.\n\nThe RNTCP (Revised National TB Control Programme (RNTCP) has established a network of laboratories where TB tests can be done to diagnose people who have TB. There are also tests that can be done to determine whether a person has drug resistant TB.\n\nThe laboratory system comprises National Reference Laboratories (NRLs), state level Intermediate Reference Laboratories (IRLs), Culture & Drug Susceptibility Testing (C & DST) laboratories and Designated Microscopy Centres (DMCs). Some of Private lab also Accredited for Culture & Drug Susceptibility Testing for M.tuberculosis (I.e Microcare Laboratory & tuberculosis Research Centre, Surat)\n\nIndia has a large burden of the world's TB, one that this developing country can ill afford, with an estimated economic loss of US $43 billion and 100 million lost annually directly due to this disease. Treatment in India is on the rise just as the disease itself is on the rise. To prevent spreading TB, it's important to get treatment quickly and to follow it through to completion by your doctor. This can stop transmission of the bacteria and the appearance of antibiotic-resistant strains. It is a knowingly fact that bacterial infections require antibiotics for treatment and prevention, thus, commonly you will see that patients diagnosed with tuberculosis have certain pills and antibiotics carried around with them. The antibiotics most commonly used include isoniazid, rifampin, pyrazinamide, and ethambutol. It is crucial to take your medication as instructed by your doctor, and for the full course of the treatment (months or years). This helps to ward off types of TB bacteria that are antibiotic-resistant, which take longer and are more difficult to treat. In India’s case, the particular type of TB infections are majority resistant to regular antibiotic treatment (MDR-TB, XDR-TB, TDR-TB), therefore, not one or two medications will help, rather a combination of different medications must be taken for over a course of 18–24 months, depending on how deep the infection is. Since the 1960s, two drugs — isoniazid and rifampicin — have been the standard TB treatment. In addition to antibiotics, a vaccine is available to limit the spread of bacteria after TB infection. The vaccine is generally used in countries or communities where the risk of TB infection is greater than 1% each year, thus, the country of India; whose TB infection rate is at a peak (world’s third highest TB infected country), and is consistently growing, and giving 20% of the world’s diagnosed patients a home. At present the anti TB treatment offered in public and private sector in India is not satisfactory and needs to be improved. Today India's TB control program needs to update itself with the international TB guidelines as well as provide an optimal anti TB treatment to the patients enrolled under it or it will land up being another factor in the genesis of drug resistant tuberculosis.\n\nThe Indian government’s Revised National TB Control Programme (RNTCP) started in India during 1997. The program uses the WHO recommended Directly Observed Treatment Short Course (DOTS) strategy to develop ideas and data on TB treatment. This group’s initial objective is to achieve and maintain a TB treatment success rate of at least 85% in India among new patients. \"“In 2010 the RNTCP made a major policy decision that it would change focus and adopt the concept of Universal Access to quality diagnosis and TB treatment for all TB patients”\". By doing so, they extend out a helping hand to all people diagnosed with TB, and in addition, provide better quality services and improve on therapy for these patients.\n\nTreatment recommendations from Udwadia, et al. suggest that patients with TDR-TB only be treated \"“within the confines of government sanctioned DOTS-Plus Programs to prevent the emergence of this untreatable form of tuberculosis”\". As this confirming result of hypothesis is at a conclusion by Udawadai, et al., it is given that the new Indian government program will insist on providing drugs free of charge to TB patients of India, for the first time ever.\n\nThe Tuberculosis Association of India is a voluntary organization. It was set up in February, 1939. It is also affiliated to the Govt. of India & is working with TB Delhi center.\n\nIndia-related\n\n\nTuberculosis-related\n\n\nGeneral and applied\n\n\n"}
{"id": "14177174", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14177174", "title": "Urethrocele", "text": "Urethrocele\n\nA urethrocele () is the prolapse of the female urethra into the vagina. Weakening of the tissues that hold the urethra in place may cause it to protrude into the vagina. Urethroceles often occur with cystoceles (involving the urinary bladder as well as the urethra). In this case, the term used is cystourethrocele.\n\nUrethroceles can often result as a result of damage to the supporting structures of the pelvic floor. Urethroceles can form after treatment for gynegological cancers.\nUrethroceles are often caused by childbirth, the movement of the baby through the vagina causing damage to the surrounding tissues. When they occur in women who have never had children, they may be the result of a congenital weakness in the tissues of the pelvic floor.\n\nThere are often no symptoms associated with a urethrocele. When present, symptoms include stress incontinence, increased urinary frequency, and urinary retention (difficulty in emptying the bladder). Pain during sexual intercourse may also occur.\n\nA urethrocele can be treated surgically.\n\nWhere a urethrocele causes difficulty in urinating, this can lead to cystitis.\n\n"}
{"id": "39065716", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39065716", "title": "Ursula Lehr", "text": "Ursula Lehr\n\nUrsula Lehr (born 5 June 1930) is a German academic, age researcher and politician who served as federal minister of youth, family, women and health from 1989 to 1990. She was also a member of the Bundestag.\n\nLehr was born in Bonn in 1930. She is a graduate of the University of Frankfurt/Main. She obtained a PhD from the University of Bonn.\n\nLehr is an academic. She was a member of the Christian Democratic Union (CDU). In a cabinet reshuffle on 9 April 1989 Lehr became federal minister of youth, family, women and health in the cabinet led by Chancellor Helmut Kohl. Lehr replaced popular politician Rita Suessmuth in the aforementioned post. Lehr's term lasted until December 1990 when she resigned from office due to harsh criticisms since she was not very successful and popular. Lehr served at the Bundestag from 1990 to 1991. After leaving politics, she returned to her teaching post.\n\nLehr is the founder of the German centre for research on aging (DZFA) at the University of Heidelberg that was established in 1995 and headed the centre until 1998. She also served as the chair of the German society of gerontology and geriatrics from 1997 to 1998. She was elected the head of the BAGSO (German National Association of Senior Citizens’ Organisations) in 2009. She was reelected to the post in October 2012 for further three years. She is also the honorary president of the BAGSO.\n"}
{"id": "36399380", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36399380", "title": "Victoria Hospital (Saint Lucia)", "text": "Victoria Hospital (Saint Lucia)\n\nVictoria Hospital is the main public health care facility in Saint Lucia. It is located in Castries. The hospital opened in 1887.\n\nThe New National Hospital is under construction. It will replace Victoria Hospital.\n"}
