{"id": "53209634", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53209634", "title": "Access to public information in Slovenia", "text": "Access to public information in Slovenia\n\nAccess to public information and freedom of information (FOI) refer to the right of access to information held by public bodies also known as \"right to know\". Access to public information is considered of fundamental importance for the effective functioning of democratic systems, as it enhances governments' and public officials' accountability, boosting people participation and allowing their informed participation into public life. The fundamental premise of the right of access to public information is that the information held by governmental institutions is in principle public and may be concealed only on the basis of legitimate reasons which should be detailed in the law.\n\nIn Slovenia, access to public information is guaranteed by Article 39 of the Constitution that protects freedom of speech and right of access to public information. The constitutional right of access to public information is embodied in the Access to Public Information Act adopted in 2004. In Slovenia everyone has the right to obtain information of a public nature in which he/she has a well grounded legal interest under the law, with the only exceptions provided by law. The Access to Public Information Act also enables every citizen to enjoy the right enshrined by Article 44 of the Constitution to actively participate in the management of public affairs.\n\nSlovenia has a good regulatory framework on access to public information. Slovenia's Access to Information Law is considered as one of the best in Europe.\n\nSlovenian Constitution, adopted in 1991, for the first time legally defined a right to access to public information.\n\nIn Slovenia access to public information is regulated by the Access to Public Information Act (2004), the Decree on communication and re-use of information of a public nature (2005) and the decree amending it (2007), and the Information Commissioner Act (2005).\n\nThe aim of the Slovenian Access to Public Information Act is to ensure that the work of public bodies is open and transparent and to enable natural and legal entities to exercise their rights to obtain public information from public authorities holding such information. In order to achieve this aim, the law prescribes that public authorities have to obligation to inform the public about their work to the greatest extend possible.\n\nThe law defines the information to be considered as \"public\" stipulating that public information subject to access to information law refers to information and data originating from the field of work of public authorities, regardless of its form or origin.\n\nExceptions to the rule of disclosure are defined in Article 6 of the Law. Reasons for refusing can be due to the sensitive nature of the information requested, for instance information defined as classified pursuant the Act governing classified data, or information concerning personal data, or when disclosure of such information would prejudice the implementation of a judicial or administrative procedure.\n\nPublic authorities are obliged to provide access to information both to Slovenian and foreign nationals, including the foreign media. Relevant bodies have to make a decision on a FOI request within 20 business days: this term may be extended to a maximum of 30 business days in case of requests requiring a complex compilation of the documents sought. In case a response is not provided within the designed period of time the application is considered refused and the applicant may file a complaint with the Information Commissioner.\n\nIn 2005, the Information Commissioner Act established the institution of the Information Commissioner, an autonomous and independent body in charge of supervising the protection of personal data and the access to public information. The Commissioner is appointed by the National Assembly at the proposal of the President of the Republic.\n\nWhen the right of access to public information was first introduced into the Constitution, most of Slovenians were not aware of this right. According to some experts, it tooks a decade for the right to be known, accepted and used by citizens of Slovenia. The right of access to public information is most widely used by journalists and NGOs, while citizens are requesting public information under the FOI law more and more frequently.\n\nOn the occasion of the International Right to Know Day celebrated on September 28th 2015, Information Commissioner Mojce Prelesnik highlighted that a key problem affecting the right of access to public information in Slovenia is the failure of state institutions to store certain data, which is particularly problematic in fields such as environmental protection, healthy food and consumer protection.\n\n"}
{"id": "6184246", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6184246", "title": "Alliance theory", "text": "Alliance theory\n\nThe alliance theory, also known as the general theory of exchanges, is a structuralist method of studying kinship relations. It finds its origins in Claude Lévi-Strauss's \"Elementary Structures of Kinship\" (1949) and is in opposition to the functionalist theory of Radcliffe-Brown. Alliance theory has oriented most anthropological French works until the 1980s; its influences were felt in various fields, including psychoanalysis, philosophy and political philosophy.\n\nThe hypothesis of a \"marriage-alliance\" emerged in this frame, pointing out towards the necessary interdependence of various families and lineages. Marriages themselves are thus seen as a form of communication that anthropologists such as Lévi-Strauss, Louis Dumont or Rodney Needham have described. Alliance theory hence tries to understand the basic questions about inter-individual relations, or what constitutes society.\n\nAlliance theory is based on the incest taboo: according to it, only this universal prohibition of incest pushes human groups towards exogamy. Thus, inside a given society, certain categories of kin are forbidden to inter-marry. The incest taboo is thus a negative prescription; without it, nothing would push men to go searching for women outside their inner kinship circle, or vice versa. This theory echoes with Freud's \"Totem and Taboo\" (1913). But the incest taboo of alliance theory, in which one's daughter or sister is offered to someone outside a family circle, starts a circle of exchange of women: in return, the giver is entitled to a woman from the other's intimate kinship group. Thus the negative prescriptions of the prohibition have positive counterparts. The idea of the alliance theory is thus of a reciprocal or a generalized exchange which founds affinity. This global phenomenon takes the form of a \"circulation of women\" which links together the various social groups in one whole: society.\n\nAccording to Lévi-Strauss's alliance theory, there are two different structural \"models\" of marriage exchange. Either the women of ego's group are offered to another group \"explicitly defined\" by social institutions: these are the \"elementary structures of kinship\". Or the group of possible spouses for the women in ego's group is \"indetermined and always open\", to the exclusion, however, of certain kin-people (nuclear family, aunts, uncles...), as in the Western world. Lévi-Strauss call these latter \"complex structures of kinship\".\n\nLevi-Strauss' model attempted to offer a single explanation for cross-cousin marriage, sister-exchange, dual organisation and rules of exogamy. Marriage rules over time create social structures, as marriages are primarily forged between groups and not just between the two individuals involved. When groups exchange women on a regular basis they marry together, with each marriage creating a debtor/creditor relationship which must be balanced through the \"repayment\" of wives, either directly or in the next generation. Levi-Strauss proposed that the initial motivation for the exchange of women was the incest taboo, which he deemed to be the beginning and essence of culture, as it was the first rule to check natural impulses; and secondarily the sexual division of labour. The former, by prescribing exogamy, creates a distinction between marriageable and tabooed women and thus necessitates a search for women outside one's own kin group (\"marry out or die out\"), which fosters exchange relationships with other groups; the latter creates a need for women to do \"women's tasks\". By necessitating wife-exchange arrangements, exogamy therefore promotes inter-group alliances and serves to form structures of social networks.\n\nLevi-Strauss also discovered that a wide range of historically unrelated cultures had the rule that individuals should marry their cross-cousin, meaning children of siblings of the opposite sex - from a male perspective that is either the FZD (father's sister's daughter in kinship abbreviation) or the MBD (mother's brother's daughter in kinship abbreviation). Accordingly, he grouped all possible kinship systems into a scheme containing three basic kinship structures, constructed out of two types of exchange. He called the three kinship structures elementary, semi-complex and complex.\n\nElementary structures are based on positive marriage rules that specify whom a person must marry, while complex systems specify negative marriage rules (whom one must not marry), thus leaving a certain amount of room for choice based on preference. Elementary structures can operate based on two forms of exchange: restricted (or direct) exchange, a symmetric form of exchange between two groups (also called moieties) of wife-givers and wife-takers; in an initial restricted exchange FZ marries MB, with all children then being bilateral cross-cousins (the daughter is both MBD and FZD). Continued restricted exchange means that the two lineages marry together. Restricted exchange structures are generally quite uncommon.\n\nThe second form of exchange within elementary structures is called generalised exchange, meaning that a man can only marry either his MBD (matrilateral cross-cousin marriage) or his FZD (patrilateral cross-cousin marriage). This involves an asymmetric exchange between at least three groups. Matrilateral cross-cousin marriage arrangements where the marriage of the parents is repeated by successive generations are very common in parts of Asia (e.g. amongst the Kachin). Levi-Strauss considered generalised exchange to be superior to restricted exchange because it allows the integration of indefinite numbers of groups. Examples of restricted exchange are found in some tribes residing in the Amazon basin. These tribal societies are made up of multiple moieties which often split up, thus rendering them comparatively unstable. Generalised exchange is more integrative but contains an implicit hierarchy, for instance amongst the Kachin where wife-givers are superior to wife-takers. Consequently, the last wife-taking group in the chain is significantly inferior to the first wife-giving group to which it is supposed to give its wives. These status inequalities can destabilise the entire system or can at least lead to an accumulation of wives (and in the case of the Kachin also of bridewealth) at one end of the chain.\n\nFrom a structural perspective, matrilateral cross-cousin marriage is superior to its patrilateral counterpart; the latter has less potential to produce social cohesion since its exchange cycles are shorter (the direction of wife exchange is reversed in each successive generation). Levi-Strauss' theory is supported by fact that patrilateral cross-cousin marriage is in fact the rarest of three types. However, matrilateral generalised exchange poses a risk, as group A depends on being given a woman from a group that it has not itself given a woman to, meaning that there is a less immediate obligation to reciprocate compared to a restricted exchange system. The risk created by such a delayed return is obviously lowest in restricted exchange systems.\n\nLevi-Strauss proposed a third structure between elementary and complex structures, called the semi-complex structure, or the Crow-Omaha system. Semi-complex structures contain so many negative marriage rules that they effectively come close to prescribing marriage to certain parties, thus somewhat resembling elementary structures. These structures are found amongst societies such as the Crow and Omaha native Indians in North America.\n\nIn Levi-Strauss' order of things, the basic building block of kinship is not just the nuclear family, as in structural-functionalism, but the so-called kinship atom: the nuclear family together with the wife's brother. This \"mother's brother\" (from the perspective of the wife-seeking son) plays a crucial role in alliance theory, as he is the one who ultimately decides whom his daughter will marry. Moreover, it is not just the nuclear family as such but alliances between families that matter in regard to the creation of social structures, reflecting the typical structuralist argument that the position of an element in the structure is more significant than the element itself. Descent theory and alliance theory therefore look at two different sides of the same coin: the former emphasising bonds of consanguinity (kinship by blood), the latter stressing bonds of affinity (kinship by law or choice).\n\n\n"}
{"id": "47157508", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47157508", "title": "Amarna letter EA 4", "text": "Amarna letter EA 4\n\nAmarna Letter EA4 is a continuation of correspondence between Kadašman-Enlil I and Amenhotep III. \n\nThe letter is part of a series of correspondences from Babylonia to Egypt, which run from EA2 to EA4 and EA6 to EA14. EA1 and EA5 are from Egypt to Babylonia. \n\nIn a publication of the Moran translations, the letter is given the title \"Royal deceit and threats\".\n\nThe letter translated reads: \n\n"}
{"id": "12784051", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12784051", "title": "Amman Message", "text": "Amman Message\n\nThe Amman Message () is a statement calling for tolerance and unity in the Muslim world that was issued on 9 November 2004 (27th of Ramadan 1425 AH) by King Abdullah II bin Al-Hussein of Jordan. Subsequently, a three-point ruling was issued by 200 Islamic scholars from over 50 countries, focusing on issues of defining who is a Muslim, excommunication from Islam (\"takfir\"), and principles related to delivering religious edicts (\"fatāwa\").\n\nThe Amman Message was delivered in Amman, Jordan, as a Ramadan sermon by Chief Justice Sheikh Iz-al-Din al-Tamimi in the presence of King Abdullah II and a number of Muslim scholars. According to a report issued by the International Crisis Group, \"The sermon stressed the need to re-emphasise Islam's core values of compassion, mutual respect, tolerance, acceptance and freedom of religion.\" The next year, in July 2005, an Islamic convention brought together 200 Muslim scholars from over 50 countries who issued a three-point declaration (later known as 'Three Points of the Amman Message'). This declaration focused on:\n\n\nExplaining why the message was issued, King Abdullah stated: \"[W]e felt that the Islamic message of tolerance was being subjected to a fierce and unjust attack from some in the West who do not understand Islam's essence, and others who claim to be associated with Islam and hide behind Islam to commit irresponsible deeds.\"\n\nFollowing are conferences and declarations:\n\nFollowing is the list of some of the many individuals and organizations who have issued \"fatwas\" and endorsements in relation to the Amman Message (as per official website listing):\n\nTony Blair, while Prime Minister of the United Kingdom, gave a speech in which he praised the Amman message and the gathering of numerous scholars, commenting, \"This was a clear message that Islam is not a monolithic faith, but one made up of a rich pattern of diversity, albeit all flowing from the same fount.\"\n\nDespite the ecumenical nature of the Amman Message, since it was issued there has been a marked decline in Shia-Sunni relations as a result of increased sectarian conflict in such countries as Iraq, Syria, Lebanon, Bahrain and Yemen.\n\nThe Amman Message has been criticized by CIFIA, a Barelvi group based in Hyderabad regards the message as contrary to the teachings of Islam.\n\nSuhail Nakhouda, writing in the Amman-based \"Islamica\", stated that the Amman message did little to effectively address ongoing problems: \"There is no water, no pavements; the economy is bad, and many young people are out of work. Peoples' lives, as well as the images they see, stay the same.\" Nakhouda stated that King Abdullah's message was likely to be dampened by his lifestyle, which he claims is the subject of criticism.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "18037847", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18037847", "title": "Aq Kupruk", "text": "Aq Kupruk\n\nAq Kupruk is a village in Balkh Province in northern Afghanistan.\n\nAq Kupruk is also an archaeological site consists of four sites, numbered I, II, III and IV. \n\nFinds included an extensive and sophisticated stone tool industry, very early stone sculpture, domesticated sheep and goat remains, fragments of beaten copper from the ceramic Neolithic, many projectile points, terracotta and simple jewellery.\n\nCollections:\n\nField-work:\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1881", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1881", "title": "Art Deco", "text": "Art Deco\n\nArt Deco, sometimes referred to as Deco, is a style of visual arts, architecture and design that first appeared in France just before World War I. Art Deco influenced the design of buildings, furniture, jewelry, fashion, cars, movie theatres, trains, ocean liners, and everyday objects such as radios and vacuum cleaners. It took its name, short for \"Arts Décoratifs\", from the Exposition internationale des arts décoratifs et industriels modernes (International Exhibition of Modern Decorative and Industrial Arts) held in Paris in 1925. It combined modernist styles with fine craftsmanship and rich materials. During its heyday, Art Deco represented luxury, glamour, exuberance, and faith in social and technological progress.\n\nArt Deco was a pastiche of many different styles, sometimes contradictory, united by a desire to be modern. From its outset, Art Deco was influenced by the bold geometric forms of Cubism; the bright colors of Fauvism and of the Ballets Russes; the updated craftsmanship of the furniture of the eras of Louis Philippe I and Louis XVI; and the exotic styles of China and Japan, India, Persia, ancient Egypt and Maya art. It featured rare and expensive materials, such as ebony and ivory, and exquisite craftsmanship. The Chrysler Building and other skyscrapers of New York built during the 1920s and 1930s are monuments of the Art Deco style.\n\nIn the 1930s, during the Great Depression, the Art Deco style became more subdued. New materials arrived, including chrome plating, stainless steel, and plastic. A sleeker form of the style, called Streamline Moderne, appeared in the 1930s; it featured curving forms and smooth, polished surfaces. Art Deco is one of the first truly international styles, but its dominance ended with the beginning of World War II and the rise of the strictly functional and unadorned styles of modernism and the International Style of architecture that followed.\n\nArt Deco took its name, short for \"Arts Décoratifs\", from the Exposition Internationale des Arts Décoratifs et Industriels Modernes held in Paris in 1925, though the diverse styles that characterize Art Deco had already appeared in Paris and Brussels before World War I.\n\nThe term \"arts décoratifs\" was first used in France in 1858; published in the Bulletin de la Société française de photographie.\n\nIn 1868, \"Le Figaro\" newspaper used the term \"objets d'art décoratifs\" with respect to objects for stage scenery created for the Théâtre de l'Opéra.\n\nIn 1875, furniture designers, textile, jewelry and glass designers, and other craftsmen were officially given the status of artists by the French government. In response to this, the \"École royale gratuite de dessin\" (Royal Free School of Design) founded in 1766 under King Louis XVI to train artists and artisans in crafts relating to the fine arts, was renamed the National School of Decorative Arts (\"l'École nationale des arts décoratifs\"). It took its present name of ENSAD (\"École nationale supérieure des arts décoratifs\") in 1927.\n\nDuring the 1925 Exposition the architect Le Corbusier wrote a series of articles about the exhibition for his magazine \"L'Esprit Nouveau\" under the title, \"1925 EXPO. ARTS. DÉCO.\" which were combined into a book, \"L'art décoratif d'aujourd'hui\" (Decorative Art Today). The book was a spirited attack on the excesses of the colorful and lavish objects at the Exposition; and on the idea that practical objects such as furniture should have any decoration at all; his conclusion was that \"Modern decoration has no decoration\".\n\nThe actual phrase \"Art déco\" did not appear in print until 1966, when it featured in the title of the first modern exhibit on the subject, called \"Les Années 25 : Art déco, Bauhaus, Stijl, Esprit nouveau\", which covered the variety of major styles in the 1920s and 1930s. The term Art déco was then used in a 1966 newspaper article by Hillary Gelson in the Times (London, 12 November), describing the different styles at the exhibit.\n\nArt Deco gained currency as a broadly applied stylistic label in 1968 when historian Bevis Hillier published the first major academic book on the style: \"Art Deco of the 20s and 30s\". Hillier noted that the term was already being used by art dealers and cites \"The Times\" (2 November 1966) and an essay named \"Les Arts Déco\" in \"Elle\" magazine (November 1967) as examples of prior usage. In 1971, Hillier organized an exhibition at the Minneapolis Institute of Arts, which he details in his book about it, \"The World of Art Deco\".\n\nThe emergence of Art Deco was closely connected with the rise in status of decorative artists, who until late in the 19th century had been considered simply as artisans. The term \"arts décoratifs\" had been invented in 1875, giving the designers of furniture, textiles, and other decoration official status. The Société des artistes décorateurs (Society of decorative artists), or SAD, was founded in 1901, and decorative artists were given the same rights of authorship as painters and sculptors. A similar movement developed in Italy. The first international exhibition devoted entirely to the decorative arts, the \"Esposizione international d'Arte decorative moderna\", was held in Turin in 1902. Several new magazines devoted to decorative arts were founded in Paris, including \"Arts et décoration\" and \"L'Art décoratif moderne\". Decorative arts sections were introduced into the annual salons of the Sociéte des artistes français, and later in the\" Salon d'automne\". French nationalism also played a part in the resurgence of decorative arts; French designers felt challenged by the increasing exports of less expensive German furnishings. In 1911, the SAD proposed the holding of a major new international exposition of decorative arts in 1912. No copies of old styles were to be permitted; only modern works. The exhibit was postponed until 1914, then, because of the war, postponed until 1925, when it gave its name to the whole family of styles known as Déco.\n\nParisian department stores and fashion designers also played an important part in the rise of Art Déco. Established firms including the luggage maker Louis Vuitton, silverware firm Christofle, glass designer René Lalique, and the jewelers Louis Cartier and Boucheron, who all began designing products in more modern styles. Beginning in 1900, department stores had recruited decorative artists to work in their design studios. The decoration of the 1912 Salon d'Automne had been entrusted to the department store Printemps. During the same year Printemps created its own workshop called \"Primavera\". By 1920 Primavera employed more than three hundred artists. The styles ranged from the updated versions of Louis XIV, Louis XVI and especially Louis Philippe furniture made by Louis Süe and the Primavera workshop to more modern forms from the workshop of the Au Louvre department store. Other designers, including Émile-Jacques Ruhlmann and Paul Foliot refused to use mass production, and insisted that each piece be made individually by hand. The early art deco style featured luxurious and exotic materials such as ebony, and ivory and silk, very bright colors and stylized motifs, particularly baskets and bouquets of flowers of all colors, giving a modernist look.\n\nThe Théâtre des Champs-Élysées (1910–1913), by Auguste Perret was the first landmark Art Deco building completed in Paris. Previously reinforced concrete had been used only for industrial and apartment buildings, Perret had built the first modern reinforced concrete apartment building in Paris on rue Benjamin Franklin in 1903-04. Henri Sauvage, another important future Art Deco architect, built another in 1904 at 7 rue Trétaigne (1904). From 1908 to 1910, the 21-year old Le Corbusier worked as a draftsman in Perret's office, learning the techniques of concrete construction. Perret's building had clean rectangular form, geometric decoration and straight lines, the future trademarks of Art Deco. The decor of the theater was also revolutionary; the facade was decorated with high reliefs by Antoine Bourdelle, a dome by Maurice Denis, paintings by Édouard Vuillard, and an Art Deco curtain Ker-Xavier Roussel. The theater became famous as the venue for many of the first performances of the Ballets Russes. Perret and Sauvage became the leading Art Deco architects in Paris in the 1920s.\n\nAt its birth between 1910 and 1914, Art Deco was an explosion of colors, featuring bright and often clashing hues, frequently in floral designs, presented in furniture upholstery, carpets, screens, wallpaper and fabrics. Many colorful works, including chairs and a table by Maurice Dufrene and a bright Gobelin carpet by Paul Follot were presented at the 1912 Salon des artistes décorateurs. In 1912–1913 designer Adrien Karbowsky made a floral chair with a parrot design for the hunting lodge of art collector Jacques Doucet. The furniture designers Louis Süe and André Mare made their first appearance at the 1912 exhibit, under the name of the \"Atelier Française,\" combining colorful fabrics with exotic and expensive materials, including ebony and ivory. After World War I they became one of the most prominent French interior design firms, producing the furniture for the first-class salons and cabins of the French transatlantic ocean liners.\n\nThe vivid colors of Art Deco came from many sources, including the exotic set designs by Leon Bakst for the Ballets Russes, which caused a sensation in Paris just before World War I. Some of the colors were inspired by the earlier Fauvism movement led by Henri Matisse; others by the Orphism of painters such as Sonia Delaunay; others by the movement known as the Nabis, and in the work of symbolist painter Odilon Redon, who designed fireplace screens and other decorative objects. Bright colors were a feature of the work of fashion designer Paul Poiret, whose work influenced both Art Deco fashion and interior design.\n\nThe art style known as Cubism appeared in France between 1907 and 1912, influencing the development of Art Deco. The Cubists, themselves under the influence of Paul Cézanne, were interested in the simplification of forms to their geometric essentials: the cylinder, the sphere, the cone.\n\nIn 1912, the artists of the Section d'Or exhibited works considerably more accessible to the general public than the analytical Cubism of Picasso and Braque. The Cubist vocabulary was poised to attract fashion, furniture and interior designers.\n\nIn the 1912 writings of André Vera. \"Le Nouveau style\", published in the journal \"L'Art décoratif\", he expressed the rejection of Art Nouveau forms (asymmetric, polychrome and picturesque) and called for \"simplicité volontaire, symétrie manifeste, l'ordre et l'harmonie\", themes that would eventually become common within Art Deco; though with time the Deco style was often extremely colorful and anything but simple.\n\nIn the \"Art Décoratif\" section of the 1912 Salon d'Automne, an architectural installation was exhibited known as the \"La Maison Cubiste\". The facade was designed by Raymond Duchamp-Villon. The decor of the house was by the firm of Louis Süe and André Mare, who had formed a company called the \"Atlelier Français\" in 1912. \"La Maison Cubiste\" was a furnished installation with a facade, a staircase, wrought iron banisters, a bedroom, a living room—the \"Salon Bourgeois\", where paintings by Albert Gleizes, Jean Metzinger, Marie Laurencin, Marcel Duchamp, Fernand Léger and Roger de La Fresnaye were hung. Thousands of spectators at the salon passed through the full-scale model.\nThe facade of the house, designed by Duchamp-Villon, was not very radical by modern standards; the lintels and pediments had prismatic shapes, but otherwise the facade resembled an ordinary house of the period. The rooms were furnished by Mare with neo-Louis XVI and Louis-Philippe style chairs and sofas that were updated with more angular features to make them go with the Cubist paintings. The critic Emile Sedeyn described Mare's work in the magazine \"Art et Décoration\": \"He does not embarrass himself with simplicity, for he multiplies flowers wherever they can be put. The effect he seeks is obviously one of picturesqueness and gaiety. He achieves it.\" The Cubist element was provided by the paintings. Despite its tameness, the installation was attacked by some critics as extremely radical, which helped make for its success. This architectural installation was subsequently exhibited at the 1913 Armory Show, New York, Chicago and Boston. Thanks largely to the exhibition, the term \"Cubist\" began to be applied to anything modern, from women's haircuts to clothing to theater performances.\n\nThe Cubist style continued within Art Deco, even as Deco branched out in many other directions. In 1927, Cubists Joseph Csaky, Jacques Lipchitz, Louis Marcoussis, Henri Laurens, the sculptor Gustave Miklos, and others collaborated in the decoration of a Studio House, rue Saint-James, Neuilly-sur-Seine, designed by the architect Paul Ruaud and owned by the French fashion designer Jacques Doucet, also a collector of Post-Impressionist art by Henri Matisse and Cubist paintings (including \"Les Demoiselles d'Avignon\", which he bought directly from Picasso's studio). Laurens designed the fountain, Csaky designed Doucet's staircase, Lipchitz made the fireplace mantel, and Marcoussis made a Cubist rug.\n\nBesides the Cubist artists, Doucet brought in other Deco interior designers to help in decorating the house, including Pierre Legrain, who was in charge of organizing the decoration, and Paul Iribe, Marcel Coard, André Groult, Eileen Gray and Rose Adler to provide furniture. The decor included massive pieces made of macassar ebony, inspired by African art, and furniture covered with Morocco leather, crocodile skin and snakeskin, and patterns taken from African designs.\n\nArt Deco was not a single style, but a collection of different and sometimes contradictory styles. In architecture, Art Deco was the successor to and reaction against Art Nouveau, a style which flourished in Europe between 1895 and 1900, and also gradually replaced the Beaux-Arts and neoclassical that were predominant in European and American architecture. In 1905 Eugène Grasset wrote and published \"Méthode de Composition Ornementale, Éléments Rectilignes,\" in which he systematically explored the decorative (ornamental) aspects of geometric elements, forms, motifs and their variations, in contrast with (and as a departure from) the undulating Art Nouveau style of Hector Guimard, so popular in Paris a few years earlier. Grasset stressed the principle that various simple geometric shapes like triangles and squares are the basis of all compositional arrangements. The reinforced concrete buildings of Auguste Perret and Henri Sauvage, and particularly the Theatre des Champs-Elysees, offered a new form of construction and decoration which was copied worldwide.\n\nIn decoration, many different styles were borrowed and used by Art Deco. They included pre-modern art from around the world and observable at the Musée du Louvre, Musée de l'Homme and the Musée national des Arts d'Afrique et d'Océanie. There was also popular interest in archeology due to excavations at Pompeii, Troy, and the tomb of the 18th dynasty Pharaoh Tutankhamun. Artists and designers integrated motifs from ancient Egypt, Mesopotamia, Greece, Rome, Asia, Mesoamerica and Oceania with Machine Age elements.\n\nOther styles borrowed included Russian Constructivism and Italian Futurism, as well as Orphism, Functionalism, and Modernism in general. Art Deco also used the clashing colors and designs of Fauvism, notably in the work of Henri Matisse and André Derain, inspired the designs of art deco textiles, wallpaper, and painted ceramics. It took ideas from the high fashion vocabulary of the period, which featured geometric designs, chevrons, zigzags, and stylized bouquets of flowers. It was influenced by discoveries in Egyptology, and growing interest in the Orient and in African art. From 1925 onwards, it was often inspired by a passion for new machines, such as airships, automobiles and ocean liners, and by 1930 this influence resulted in the style called streamline moderne.\n\nArt Deco was associated with both luxury and modernity; it combined very expensive materials and exquisite craftsmanship put into modernistic forms. Nothing was cheap about Art Deco: pieces of furniture included ivory and silver inlays, and pieces of Art Deco jewelry combined diamonds with platinum, jade, and other precious materials. The style was used to decorate the first-class salons of ocean liners, deluxe trains, and skyscrapers. It was used around the world to decorate the great movie palaces of the late 1920s and 1930s. Later, after the Great Depression, the style changed and became more sober.\n\nA good example of the luxury style of Art Deco is the boudoir of the fashion designer Jeanne Lanvin, designed by Armand-Albert Rateau (1882-1938) made between 1922-25. It was located in her house at 16 rue Barbet de Jouy, in Paris, which was demolished in 1965. The room was reconstructed in the Museum of Decorative Arts in Paris. The walls are covered with molded \"lambris\" below sculpted bas-reliefs in stucco. The alcove is framed with columns of marble on with bases and a plinth of sculpted wood. The floor is of white and black marble, and in the cabinets decorative objects are displayed against a background of blue silk. Her bathroom had a tub and washstand made of sienna marble, with a wall of carved stucco and bronze fittings.\n\nBy 1928 the style had become more comfortable, with deep leather club chairs. The study designed by the Paris firm of Alavoine for an American businessman in 1928-30, now in the Brooklyn Museum, had a unique American feature. Since it was constructed during Prohibition, when serving alcohol was prohibited, it included a secret bar hidden behind the panels.\n\nBy the 1930s, the style had been somewhat simplified, but it was still extravagant. In 1932 the decorator Paul Ruoud made the Glass Salon for Suzanne Talbot. It featured a serpentine armchair and two tubular armchairs by Eileen Gray, a floor of mat silvered glass slabs, a panel of abstract patterns in silver and black lacquer, and an assortment of animal skins.\n\nThe event that marked the zenith of the style and gave it its name was the International Exhibition of Modern Decorative and Industrial Arts which took place in Paris from April to October in 1925. This was officially sponsored by the French government, and covered a site in Paris of 55 acres, running from the Grand Palais on the right bank to Les Invalides on the left bank, and along the banks of the Seine. The Grand Palais, the largest hall in the city, was filled with exhibits of decorative arts from the participating countries. There were 15,000 exhibitors from twenty different countries, including England, Italy, Spain, Poland, Czechoslovakia, Belgium, Japan, and the new Soviet Union, though Germany was not invited because of tensions after the war and the United States, misunderstanding the purpose of the exhibit, declined to participate. It was visited by sixteen million people during its seven-month run. The rules of the exhibition required that all work be modern; no historical styles were allowed. The main purpose of the Exhibit was to promote the French manufacturers of luxury furniture, porcelain, glass, metal work, textiles and other decorative products. To further promote the products, all the major Paris department stores and major designers had their own pavilions. The Exposition had a secondary purpose in promoting products from French colonies in Africa and Asia, including ivory and exotic woods.\n\nThe Hôtel du Riche Collectionneur was a popular attraction at the Exposition; it displayed the new furniture designs of Emile-Jacques Ruhlmann, as well as Art Deco fabrics, carpets, and a painting by Jean Dupas. The interior design followed the same principles of symmetry and geometric forms which set it apart from Art Nouveau, and bright colors, fine craftsmanship rare and expensive materials which set it apart from the strict functionality of the Modernist style. While most of the pavilions were lavishly decorated and filled with hand-made luxury furniture, two pavilions, those of the Soviet Union and Pavilion du Nouveau Esprit, built by the magazine of that name run by Le Corbusier, were built in an austere style with plain white walls and no decoration; they were among the earliest examples of modernist architecture.\n\nAmerican skyscrapers marked the summit of the Art Deco style; they became the tallest and most recognizable modern buildings in the world. They were designed to show the prestige of their builders through their height, their shape, their color, and their dramatic illumination at night. The first New York skyscraper, the Woolworth Building, in a neoclassical style, was completed in 1913, and the American Telephone and Telegraph Building (1924) had ionic and doric columns and a classical Doric hypostyle with a frieze. The American Radiator Building by Raymond Hood (1924) combined Gothic and Deco modern elements in the design of the building. Black brick on the frontage of the building (symbolizing coal) was selected to give an idea of solidity and to give the building a solid mass. Other parts of the facade were covered in gold bricks (symbolizing fire), and the entry was decorated with marble and black mirrors. Another early Art Deco skyscraper was Detroit's Guardian Building, which opened in 1929. Designed by modernist Wirt C. Rowland, the building was the first to employ stainless steel as a decorative element, and the extensive use of colored designs in place of traditional ornaments.\n\nThe New York skyline was radically changed by the Chrysler Building in Manhattan (completed in 1930), designed by William Van Alen. It was a giant seventy-seven floor tall advertisement for Chrysler automobiles. The top was crowned by a stainless steel spire, and was ornamented by deco \"gargoyles\" in the form of stainless steel radiator cap decorations. The base of the tower, thirty-three stories above the street, was decorated with colorful art deco friezes, and the lobby was decorated with art deco symbols and images expressing modernity.\n\nThe Chrysler Building was followed by the Empire State Building by William F. Lamb (1931) and the RCA Building (now the Comcast Building) in Rockefeller Center, by Raymond Hood (1933) which together completely changed the skyline of New York. The tops of the buildings were decorated with Art Deco crowns and spires covered with stainless steel, and, in the case of the Chrysler building, with Art Deco gargoyles modeled after radiator ornaments, while the entrances and lobbies were lavishly decorated with Art Deco sculpture, ceramics, and design. Similar buildings, though not quite as tall, soon appeared in Chicago and other large American cities. The Chrysler Building was soon surpassed in height by the Empire State Building, in a slightly less lavish Deco style. Rockefeller Center added a new design element: several tall building grouped around an open plaza, with a fountain in the center.\n\nIn 1925 two different competing schools coexisted within Art Deco: the traditionalists, who had founded the Society of Decorative Artists; included the furniture designer Emile-Jacques Ruhlmann, Jean Dunard, the sculptor Antoine Bourdelle, and designer Paul Poiret; they combined modern forms with traditional craftsmanship and expensive materials. On the other side were the modernists, who increasingly rejected the past and wanted a style based upon advances in new technologies, simplicity, a lack of decoration, inexpensive materials, and mass production. The modernists founded their own organization, The French Union of Modern Artists, in 1929. Its members included architects Pierre Chareau, Francis Jourdain, Robert Mallet-Stevens, Corbusier, and, in the Soviet Union, Konstantin Melnikov; the Irish designer Eileen Gray, and French designer Sonia Delaunay, the jewelers Jean Fouquet and Jean Puiforcat. They fiercely attacked the traditional art deco style, which they said was created only for the wealthy, and insisted that well-constructed buildings should be available to everyone, and that form should follow function. The beauty of an object or building resided in whether it was perfectly fit to fulfill its function. Modern industrial methods meant that furniture and buildings could be mass-produced, not made by hand.\n\nThe Art Deco interior designer Paul Follot defended Art Deco in this way: \"We know that man is never content with the indispensable and that the superfluous is always needed...If not, we would have to get rid of music, flowers, and perfumes..!\" However, Le Corbusier was a brilliant publicist for modernist architecture; he stated that a house was simply \"a machine to live in\", and tirelessly promoted the idea that Art Deco was the past and modernism was the future. Le Corbusier's ideas were gradually adopted by architecture schools, and the aesthetics of Art Deco were abandoned. The same features that made Art Deco popular in the beginning, its craftsmanship, rich materials and ornament, led to its decline. The Great Depression that began in the United States in 1929, and reached Europe shortly afterwards, greatly reduced the number of wealthy clients who could pay for the furnishings and art objects. In the Depression economic climate, few companies were ready to build new skyscrapers. Even the Ruhlmann firm resorted to producing pieces of furniture in series, rather than individual hand-made items. The last buildings built in Paris in the new style were the Museum of Public Works by Auguste Perret (now the French Economic, Social and Environmental Council) and the Palais de Chaillot by Louis-Hippolyte Boileau, Jacques Carlu and Léon Azéma, and the Palais de Tokyo of the 1937 Paris International Exposition; they looked out at the grandiose pavilion of Nazi Germany, designed by Albert Speer, which faced the equally grandiose socialist-realist pavilion of Stalin's Soviet Union.\n\nAfter World War II the dominant architectural style became the International Style pioneered by Le Corbusier, and Mies Van der Rohe. A handful of Art Deco hotels were built in Miami Beach after World War II, but elsewhere the style largely vanished, except in industrial design, where it continued to be used in automobile styling and products such as jukeboxes. In the 1960s, it experienced a modest academic revival, thanks in part to the writings of architectural historians such as Bevis Hillier. In the 1970s efforts were made in the United States and Europe to preserve the best examples of Art Deco architecture, and many buildings were restored and repurposed. Postmodern architecture, which first appeared in the 1980s, like Art Deco, often includes purely decorative features. Deco continues to inspire designers, and is often used in contemporary fashion, jewelry, and toiletries.\n\nThere was no section set aside for painting at the 1925 Exposition. Art deco painting was by definition decorative, designed to decorate a room or work of architecture, so few painters worked exclusively in the style, but two painters are closely associated with Art Deco. Jean Dupas painted Art Deco murals for the Bordeaux Pavilion at the 1925 Decorative Arts Exposition in Paris, and also painted the picture over the fireplace in the Maison de la Collectioneur exhibit at the 1925 Exposition, which featured furniture by Ruhlmann and other prominent Art Deco designers. His murals were also prominent in the decor of the French ocean liner SS \"Normandie\". His work was purely decorative, designed as a background or accompaniment to other elements of the decor.\n\nThe other painter closely associated with the style is Tamara de Lempicka. Born in Poland, she emigrated to Paris after the Russian Revolution. She studied under Maurice Denis and André Lhote, and borrowed many elements from their styles. She painted portraits in a realistic, dynamic and colorful Art Deco style.\n\nIn the 1930s a dramatic new form of Art Deco painting appeared in the United States. During the Great Depression, the Federal Art Project of the Works Progress Administration was created to give work to unemployed artists. Many were given the task of decorating government buildings, hospitals and schools. There was no specific art deco style used in the murals; artists engaged to paint murals in government buildings came from many different schools, from American regionalism to social realism; they included Reginald Marsh, Rockwell Kent and the Mexican painter Diego Rivera. The murals were Art Deco because they were all decorative and related to the activities in the building or city where they were painted: Reginald Marsh and Rockwell Kent both decorated U.S. postal buildings, and showed postal employees at work while Diego Rivera depicted automobile factory workers for the Detroit Institute of Arts. Diego Rivera's mural \"Man at the Crossroads\" (1933) for Rockefeller Center featured an unauthorized portrait of Lenin. When Rivera refused to remove Lenin, the painting was destroyed and a new mural was painted by the Spanish artist Josep Maria Sert.\nMost of the sculpture of the Art Deco period was, as the name suggests, purely decorative; it was designed not for museums, but to ornament office buildings, government buildings, public squares and private salons. It was almost always representational, usually of heroic or allegorical figures related to the purpose of the building; the themes were usually chosen by the patron, and abstract sculpture for decoration was extremely rare. It was frequently attached to facade of buildings, particularly over the entrances and lobbies.\n\nAllegorical sculptures of the dance and music by Antoine Bourdelle were the essential decorative feature of the earliest Art Deco landmark in Paris, the Théâtre des Champs-Élysées in Paris, in 1912. The sculptor Aristide Maillol reinvented the classical ideal for his statue of the River (1939), now at the Museum of Modern Art in New York. In the 1930s, a whole team of sculptors made sculpture for the 1937 Exposition Internationale des Arts et Techniques dans la Vie Moderne at Chaillot. The buildings of the Exposition were covered with low-relief sculpture, statues. Alfred Janniot made the relief sculptures on the facade of the Palais de Tokyo. The Musée d'Art Moderne de la Ville de Paris, and the esplanade in front of the Palais de Chaillot, facing the Eiffel Tower, was crowded with new statuary by Charles Malfray, Henry Arnold, and many others.\n\nIn the United States, many European sculptors trained at the École des Beaux Arts in Paris, came to work; they included Gutzon Borglum, sculptor of Mount Rushmore Lincoln Memorial. Other American sculptors, including Harriet Whitney Frishmuth, had studied with Auguste Rodin in Paris. The 1929 stock market crash largely destroyed the market for monumental sculpture, but one grand project remained; the new Rockefeller Center. The American sculptors Lee Lawrie and Paul Manship designed heroic allegorical figures for facade and plaza. In San Francisco, Ralph Stackpole provided sculpture for the facade of the new San Francisco Stock Exchange building.\n\nOne of the best known and certainly the largest Art Deco sculpture is the \"Christ the Redeemer\" by the French sculptor Paul Landowski, completed between 1922 and 1931, located on a mountain top overlooking Rio de Janeiro, Brazil. François Pompon was a pioneer of modern stylized animalier sculpture. He was not fully recognized for his artistic accomplishments until the age of 67 at the Salon d'Automne of 1922 with the work \"Ours blanc\", also known as \"The White Bear\", now in the Musée d'Orsay in Paris.\n\nMany early Art Deco sculptures were small, designed to decorate salons. One genre of this sculpture was called the Chryselephantine statuette, named for a style of ancient Greek temple statues made of gold and ivory. One of the best-known Art Deco salon sculptors was the Romanian-born Demétre Chiparus, who produced colorful small sculptures of dancers. Other notable salon sculptors included Ferdinand Preiss, Josef Lorenzl, Alexander Kelety, Dorothea Charol and Gustav Schmidtcassel.\n\nParallel with these more neoclassical sculptors, more avant-garde and abstract sculptors were at work in Paris and New York. The most prominent were Constantin Brâncuși, Joseph Csaky, Alexander Archipenko, Henri Laurens, Jacques Lipchitz, Gustave Miklos, Jean Lambert-Rucki, Jan et Joël Martel, Chana Orloff and Pablo Gargallo.\n\nThe Art Deco style appeared early in the graphic arts, in the years just before World War I. It appeared in Paris in the posters and the costume designs of Leon Bakst for the Ballets Russes, and in the catalogs of the fashion designers Paul Poiret. The illustrations of Georges Barbier, and Georges Lepape and the images in the fashion magazine \"La Gazette du bon ton\" perfectly captured the elegance and sensuality of the style. In the 1920s, the look changed; the fashions stressed were more casual, sportive and daring, with the woman models usually smoking cigarettes. American fashion magazines such as \"Vogue\", \"Vanity Fair\" and \"Harper's Bazaar\" quickly picked up the new style and popularized it in the United States. It also influenced the work of American book illustrators such as Rockwell Kent. In Germany, the most famous poster artist of the period was Ludwig Hohlwein, who created colorful and dramatic posters for music festivals, beers, and, late in his career, for the Nazi Party.\n\nDuring the Art Nouveau period, posters usually advertised theatrical products or cabarets. In the 1920s, travel posters, made for steamship lines and airlines, became extremely popular. The style changed notably in the 1920s, to focus attention on the product being advertised. The images became simpler, precise, more linear, more dynamic, and were often placed against a single color background. In France popular Art Deco designers included, Charles Loupot and Paul Colin, who became famous for his posters of American singer and dancer Josephine Baker. Jean Carlu designed posters for Charlie Chaplin movies, soaps, and theaters; in the late 1930s he emigrated to the United States, where, during the World War, he designed posters to encourage war production. The designer Charles Gesmar became famous making posters for the singer Mistinguett and for Air France. Among the best known French Art Deco poster designers was Cassandre, who made the celebrated poster of the ocean liner SS \"Normandie\" in 1935.\n\nIn the 1930s a new genre of posters appeared in the United States during the Great Depression. The Federal Art Project hired American artists to create posters to promote tourism and cultural events.\n\nThe architectural style of art deco made its debut in Paris in 1903-04, with the construction of two apartment buildings in Paris, one by Auguste Perret on rue Trétaigne and the other on rue Benjamin Franklin by Henri Sauvage. The two young architects used reinforced concrete for the first time in Paris residential buildings; the new buildings had clean lines, rectangular forms, and no decoration on the facades; they marked a clean break with the art nouveau style. Between 1910 and 1913, Perret used his experience in concrete apartment buildings to construct the Théâtre des Champs-Élysées, 15 avenue Montaigne. Between 1925 and 1928 he constructed the new art deco facade of the La Samaritaine department store in Paris.\n\nAfter the First World War, art deco buildings of steel and reinforced concrete began to appear in large cities across Europe and the United States. In the United States the style was most commonly used for office buildings, government buildings, movie theaters, and railroad stations. It sometimes was combined with other styles; Los Angeles City Hall combined Art Deco with a roof based on the ancient Greek Mausoleum at Halicarnassus, while the Los Angeles railroad station combined Deco with Spanish mission architecture. Art Deco elements also appeared in engineering projects, including the towers of the Golden Gate Bridge and the intake towers of Hoover Dam. In the 1920s and 1930s it became a truly international style, with examples including the Palacio de Bellas Artes (Palace of Fine Arts) in Mexico City by , the Mayakovskaya Metro Station in Moscow and the National Diet Building in Tokyo by Watanabe Fukuzo.\n\nThe Art Deco style was not limited to buildings on land; the ocean liner SS \"Normandie\", whose first voyage was in 1935, featured Art Deco design, including a dining room whose ceiling and decoration were made of glass by Lalique.\n\nThe grand showcases of Art deco interior design were the lobbies of government buildings, theaters, and particularly office buildings. Interiors were extremely colorful and dynamic, combining sculpture, murals, and ornate geometric design in marble, glass, ceramics and stainless steel. An early example was the Fisher Building in Detroit, by Joseph Nathaniel French; the lobby was highly decorated with sculpture and ceramics. The Guardian Building (originally the Union Trust Building) in Detroit, by Wirt Rowland (1929), decorated with red and black marble and brightly colored ceramics, highlighted by highly polished steel elevator doors and counters. The sculptural decoration installed in the walls illustrated the virtues of industry and saving; the building was immediately termed the \"Cathedral of Commerce\". The Medical and Dental Building called 450 Sutter Street in San Francisco by Timothy Pflueger was inspired by Mayan architecture, in a highly stylized form; it used pyramid shapes, and the interior walls were covered highly stylized rows of hieroglyphs.\n\nIn France, the best example of an Art Deco interior during period was the Palais de la Porte Dorée (1931) by Albert Laprade, Léon Jaussely and Léon Bazin. The building (now the National Museum of Immigration, with an aquarium in the basement) was built for the Paris Colonial Exposition of 1931, to celebrate the people and products of French colonies. The exterior facade was entirely covered with sculpture, and the lobby created an Art Deco harmony with a wood parquet floor in a geometric pattern, a mural depicting the people of French colonies; and a harmonious composition of vertical doors and horizontal balconies.\n\nMany of the best surviving examples of Art Deco are movie theaters built in the 1920s and 1930s. The Art Deco period coincided with the conversion of silent films to sound, and movie companies built enormous theaters in major cities to capture the huge audience that came to see movies. Movie palaces in the 1920s often combined exotic themes with art deco style; Grauman's Egyptian Theater in Hollywood (1922) was inspired by ancient Egyptian tombs and pyramids, while the Fox Theater in Bakersfield, California attached a tower in California Mission style to an Art Deco hall. The largest of all is Radio City Music Hall in New York City, which opened in 1932. Originally designed as a stage theater, it quickly transformed into a movie theater, which could seat 6,015 persons The interior design by Donald Deskey used glass, aluminum, chrome, and leather to create a colorful escape from reality The Paramount Theater in Oakland, California, by Timothy Pflueger, had a colorful ceramic facade a lobby four stories high, and separate Art Deco smoking rooms for gentlemen and ladies. Similar grand palaces appeared in Europe. The Grand Rex in Paris (1932), with its imposing tower, was the largest movie theater in Europe. The Gaumont State Cinema in London (1937) had a tower modeled after the Empire State building, covered with cream-colored ceramic tiles and an interior in an Art Deco-Italian Renaissance style. The Paramount Theater in Shanghai, China (1933) was originally built as a dance hall called \"The gate of 100 pleasures\"; it was converted to a movie theater after the Communist Revolution in 1949, and now is a ballroom and disco. In the 1930s Italian architects built a small movie palace, the Cinema Impero, in Asmara in what is now Eritrea. Today, many of the movie theaters have been subdivided into multiplexes, but others have been restored and are used as cultural centers in their communities.\n\nIn the late 1930s, a new variety of Art Deco architecture became common; it was called Streamline Moderne or simply Streamline, or, in France, the Style Paqueboat, or Ocean Liner style. Buildings in the style were had rounded corners, long horizontal lines; they were built of reinforced concrete, and were almost always white; and sometimes had nautical features, such as railings that resembled those on a ship. The rounded corner was not entirely new; it had appeared in Berlin in 1923 in the Mossehaus by Erich Mendelsohn, and later in the Hoover Building, an industrial complex in the London suburb of Perivale. In the United States, it became most closely associated with transport; Streamline moderne was rare in office buildings, but was often used for bus stations and airport terminals, such as terminal at La Guardia airport in New York City that handled the first transatlantic flights, via the PanAm clipper flying boats; and in roadside architecture, such as gas stations and diners. In the late 1930s a series of diners, modeled after streamlined railroad cars, were produced and installed in towns in New England; at least two examples still remain and are now registered historic buildings.\n\nDecoration in the Art Deco period went through several distinct phases. Between 1910 and 1920, as Art Nouveau was exhausted, design styles saw a return to tradition, particularly in the work of Paul Iribe. In 1912 André Vera published an essay in the magazine \"L'Art Décoratif\" calling for a return to the craftsmanship and materials of earlier centuries, and using a new repertoire of forms taken from nature, particularly baskets and garlands of fruit and flowers. A second tendency of Art Deco, also from 1910 to 1920, was inspired by the bright colors of the artistic movement known as the Fauves and by the colorful costumes and sets of the Ballets Russes. This style was often expressed with exotic materials such as sharkskin, mother of pearl, ivory, tinted leather, lacquered and painted wood, and decorative inlays on furniture that emphasized its geometry. This period of the style reached its high point in the 1925 Paris Exposition of Decorative Arts. In the late 1920s and the 1930s, the decorative style changed, inspired by new materials and technologies. It became sleeker and less ornamental. Furniture, like architecture, began to have rounded edges and to take on a polished, streamlined look, taken from the streamline modern style. New materials, such as chrome-plated steel, aluminum and bakelite, an early form of plastic, began to appear in furniture and decoration.\n\nThroughout the Art Deco period, and particularly in the 1930s, the motifs of the decor expressed the function of the building. Theaters were decorated with sculpture which illustrated music, dance, and excitement; power companies showed sunrises, the Chrysler building showed stylized hood ornaments; The friezes of Palais de la Porte Dorée at the 1931 Paris Colonial Exposition showed the faces of the different nationalities of French colonies. The Streamline style made it appear that the building itself was in motion. The WPA murals of the 1930s featured ordinary people; factory workers, postal workers, families and farmers, in place of classical heroes.\n\nFrench furniture from 1910 until the early 1920s was largely an updating of French traditional furniture styles, and the art nouveau designs of Louis Majorelle, Charles Plumet and other manufacturers. French furniture manufacturers felt threatened by the growing popularity of German manufacturers and styles, particularly the Biedermeier style, which was simple and clean-lined. The French designer Frantz Jourdain, the President of the Paris Salon d'Automne, invited designers from Munich to participate in the 1910 Salon. French designers saw the new German style, and decided to meet the German challenge. The French designers decided to present new French styles in the Salon of 1912. The rules of the Salon indicated that only modern styles would be permitted. All of the major French furniture designers took part in Salon: Paul Follot, Paul Iribe, Maurice Dufrene, André Groult, André Mare and Louis Suë took part, presenting new works that updated the traditional French styles of Louis XVI and Louis Philippe with more angular corners inspired by Cubism and brighter colors inspired by Fauvism and the Nabis.\n\nThe painter André Mare and furniture designer Louis Suë both participated the 1912 Salon. After the war the two men joined together to form their own company, formally called the \"Compagnie des Arts Française\", but usually known simply as Suë and Mare. Unlike the prominent art nouveau designers like Louis Majorelle, who personally designed every piece, they assembled a team of skilled craftsmen and produced complete interior designs, including furniture, glassware, carpets, ceramics, wallpaper and lighting. Their work featured bright colors and furniture and fine woods, such ebony encrusted with mother of pearl, abalone and silvered metal to create bouquets of flowers. They designed everything from the interiors of ocean liners to perfume bottles for the label of Jean Patou.The firm prospered in the early 1920s, but the two men were better craftsmen than businessmen. The firm was sold in 1928, and both men left.\n\nThe most prominent furniture designer at the 1925 Decorative Arts Exposition was Émile-Jacques Ruhlmann, from Alsace. He first exhibited his works at the 1913 Autumn Salon, then had his own pavilion, the \"House of the Rich Collector\", at the 1925 Exposition. He used only most rare and expensive materials, including ebony, mahogany, rosewood, ambon and other exotic woods, decorated with inlays of ivory, tortoise shell, mother of pearl, Little pompoms of silk decorated the handles of drawers of the cabinets. His furniture was based upon 18th-century models, but simplified and reshaped. In all of his work, the interior structure of the furniture was completely concealed. The framework usually of oak, was completely covered with an overlay of thin strips of wood, then covered by a second layer of strips of rare and expensive woods. This was then covered with a veneer and polished, so that the piece looked as if it had been cut out of a single block of wood. Contrast to the dark wood was provided by inlays of ivory, and ivory key plates and handles. According to Ruhlmann, armchairs had to be designed differently according to the functions of the rooms where they appeared; living room armchairs were designed to be welcoming, office chairs comfortable, and salon chairs voluptuous. Only a small number of pieces of each design of furniture was made, and the average price of one of his beds or cabinets was greater than the price of an average house.\n\nJules Leleu was a traditional furniture designer who moved smoothly into Art Deco in the 1920s; he designed the furniture for the dining room of the Élysée Palace, and for the first-class cabins of the steamship \"Normandie\". his style was characterized by the use of ebony, Macassar wood, walnut, with decoration of plaques of ivory and mother of pearl. He introduced the style of lacquered art deco furniture at the end of in the late 1920s, and in the late 1930s introduced furniture made of metal with panels of smoked glass. In Italy, the designer Gio Ponti was famous for his streamlined designs.\n\nThe costly and exotic furniture of Ruhlmann and other traditionalists infuriated modernists, including the architect Le Corbusier, causing him to write a famous series of articles denouncing the \"arts décoratif\" style. He attacked furniture made only for the rich, and called upon designers to create furniture made with inexpensive materials and modern style, which ordinary people could afford. He designed his own chairs, created to be inexpensive and mass-produced.\n\nIn the 1930s, furniture designs adapted to the form, with smoother surfaces and curved forms. The masters of the late style included Donald Deskey was one of the most influential designers; he created the interior of the Radio City Music Hall. He used a mixture of traditional and very modern materials, including aluminum, chrome, and bakelite, an early form of plastic. The Waterfall style was popular the 1930s and 1940s, the most prevalent Art Deco form of furniture at the time. Pieces were typically of plywood finished with blond veneer and with rounded edges, resembling a waterfall.\n\nStreamline was a variety of Art Deco which emerged during the mid-1930s. It was influenced by modern aerodynamic principles developed for aviation and ballistics to reduce aerodynamic drag at high velocities. The bullet shapes were applied by designers to cars, trains, ships, and even objects not intended to move, such as refrigerators, gas pumps, and buildings. One of the first production vehicles in this style was the Chrysler Airflow of 1933. It was unsuccessful commercially, but the beauty and functionality of its design set a precedent; meant modernity. It continued to be used in car design well after World War II.\n\nNew industrial materials began to influence design of cars and household objects. These included aluminum, chrome, and bakelite, an early form of plastic. Bakelite could be easily molded into different forms, and soon was used in telephones, radios and other appliances.\n\nOcean liners also adopted a style of Art Deco, known in French as the \"Style Paquebot\", or \"Ocean Liner Style\". The most famous example was the SS \"Normandie\", which made its first transatlantic trip in 1935. It was designed particularly to bring wealthy Americans to Paris to shop. The cabins and salons featured the latest Art Deco furnishings and decoration. The Grand Salon of the ship, which was the restaurant for first-class passengers, was bigger than the Hall of Mirrors of the Palace of Versailles. It was illuminated by electric lights within twelve pillars of Lalique crystal; thirty-six matching pillars lined the walls. This was one of the earliest examples of illumination being directly integrated into architecture. The style of ships was soon adapted to buildings. A notable example is found on the San Francisco waterfront, where the Maritime Museum building, built as a public bath in 1937, resembles a ferryboat, with ship railings and rounded corners. The Star Ferry Terminal in Hong Kong also used a variation of the style.\n\nArt Deco influenced fashion with a combination of geometric shapes, avant-garde style and luxury in clothing such as works of Paul Poiret, Charles Worth and Jean Patou. In the 1920s, designers were inspired by the stage sets of the Ballets Russes, fabric designs and costumes from Léon Bakst and creations by the Wiener Werkstätte.\n\nIn the 1920s and 1930s, designers including René Lalique and Cartier tried reduce the traditional dominance of diamonds by introducing more colorful gemstones, such as small emeralds, rubies and sapphires. They also placed greater emphasis on very elaborate and elegant settings, featuring less-expensive materials such as enamel, glass, horn and ivory. Diamonds themselves were cut in less traditional forms; the 1925 Exposition saw a large number of diamonds cut in the form of tiny rods or matchsticks. The settings for diamonds also changed; More and more often jewelers used platinum instead of gold, since it was strong and flexible, and could set clusters of stones. Jewelers also began to use more dark materials, such as enamels and black onyx, which provided a higher contrast with diamonds.\n\nJewelry became much more colorful and varied in style. Cartier and the firm of Boucheron combined diamonds with colorful other gemstones cut into the form of leaves, fruit or flowers, to make brooches, rings, earrings, clips and pendants. Far Eastern themes also became popular; plaques of jade and coral were combined with platinum and diamonds, and vanity cases, cigarette cases and powder boxes were decorated with Japanese and Chinese landscapes made with mother of pearl, enamel and lacquer.\n\nRapidly changing fashions in clothing brought new styles of jewelry. Sleeveless dresses of the 1920s meant that arms needed decoration, and designers quickly created bracelets of gold, silver and platinum encrusted with lapis-lazuli, onyx, coral, and other colorful stones; Other bracelets were intended for the upper arms, and several bracelets were often worn at the same time. The short haircuts of women in the twenties called for elaborate deco earring designs. As women began to smoke in public, designers created very ornate cigarette cases and ivory cigarette holders. The invention of the wrist-watch before World War I inspired jewelers to create extraordinary decorated watches, encrusted with diamonds and plated with enamel, gold and silver. Pendant watches, hanging from a ribbon, also became fashionable.\n\nThe established jewelry houses of Paris in the period, Cartier, Chaumet, Georges Fouquet, Mauboussin, and Van Cleef & Arpels all created jewelry and objects in the new fashion. The firm of Chaumet made highly geometric cigarette boxes, cigarette lighters, pillboxes and notebooks, made of hard stones decorated with jade, lapis lazuli, diamonds and sapphires. They were joined by many young new designers, each with his own idea of deco. Raymond Templier designed pieces with highly intricate geometric patterns, including silver earrings that looked like skyscrapers. Gerard Sandoz was only 18 when he started to design jewelry in 1921; he designed many celebrated pieces based on the smooth and polished look of modern machinery. The glass designer René Lalique also entered the field, creating pendants of fruit, flowers, frogs, fairies or mermaids made of sculpted glass in bright colors, hanging on cords of silk with tassels. The jeweler Paul Brandt contrasted rectangular and triangular patterns, and embedded pearls in lines on onyx plaques. Jean Despres made necklaces of contrasting colors by bringing together silver and black lacquer, or gold with lapis lazuli. Many of his designs looked like highly polished pieces of machines. Jean Dunand was also inspired by modern machinery, combined with bright reds and blacks contrasting with polished metal.\n\nLike the Art Nouveau period before it, Art Deco was an exceptional period for fine glass and other decorative objects, designed to fit their architectural surroundings. The most famous producer of glass objects was René Lalique, whose works, from vases to hood ornaments for automobiles, became symbols of the period. He had made ventures into glass before World War I, designing bottles for the perfumes of François Coty, but he did not begin serious production of art glass until after World War I. In 1918, at the age of 58, he bought a large glass works in Combs-la-Ville and began to manufacture both artistic and practical glass objects. He treated glass as a form of sculpture, and created statuettes, vases, bowls, lamps and ornaments. He used demi-crystal rather than lead crystal, which was softer and easier to form, though not as lustrous. He sometimes used colored glass, but more often used opalescent glass, where part or the whole of the outer surface was stained with a wash. Lalique provided the decorative glass panels, lights and illuminated glass ceilings for the ocean liners SS \"Ile de France\" in 1927 and the SS \"Normandie\" in 1935, and for some of the first-class sleeping cars of the French railroads. At the 1925 Exposition of Decorative Arts, he had his own pavilion, designed a dining room with a table settling and matching glass ceiling for the Sèvres Pavilion, and designed a glass fountain for the courtyard of the Cours des Métier, a slender glass column which spouted water from the sides and was illuminated at night.\n\nOther notable Art Deco glass manufacturers included Marius-Ernest Sabino, who specialized in figurines, vases, bowls, and glass sculptures of fish, nudes, and animals. For these he often used an opalescent glass which could change from white to blue to amber, depending upon the light. His vases and bowls featured molded friezes of animals, nudes or busts of women with fruit or flowers. His work was less subtle but more colorful than that of Lalique.\n\nOther notable Deco glass designers included Edmond Etling, who also used bright opalescent colors, often with geometric patterns and sculpted nudes; Albert Simonet, and Aristide Colotte and Maurice Marinot, who was known for his deeply etched sculptural bottles and vases. The firm of Daum from the city of Nancy, which had been famous for its Art Nouveau glass, produced a line of Deco vases and glass sculpture, solid, geometric and chunky in form. More delicate multicolored works were made by Gabriel Argy-Rousseau, who produced delicately colored vases with sculpted butterflies and nymphs, and Francois Decorchemont, whose vases were streaked and marbled.\n\nThe Great Depression ruined a large part of the decorative glass industry, which depended upon wealthy clients. Some artists turned to designing stained glass windows for churches. In 1937, the Steuben glass company began the practice of commissioning famous artists to produce glassware. Louis Majorelle, famous for his Art Nouveau furniture, designed a remarkable Art Deco stained glass window portraying steel workers for the offices of the Aciéries de Longwy, a steel mill in Longwy, France.\n\nArt Deco artists produced a wide variety of practical objects in the Art Deco style, made of industrial materials from traditional wrought iron to chrome-plated steel. The American artist Norman Bel Geddes designed a cocktail set resembling a skyscraper made of chrome-plated steel. Raymond Subes designed an elegant metal grille for the entrance of the Palais de la Porte Dorée, the centerpiece of the 1931 Paris Colonial Exposition. The French sculptor Jean Dunand produced magnificent doors on the theme \"The Hunt\", covered with gold leaf and paint on plaster (1935).\n\nArt Deco visuals and imagery was used in animated films including, , Night Hood, All's Fair at the Fair, Merry Mannequins, Page Miss Glory, Fantasia and Sleeping Beauty.\n\nArt Deco architecture began in Europe, but by 1939 there were examples in large cities on every continent and in almost every country. This is a selection of prominent buildings on each continent. (For a comprehensive of existing buildings by country, see List of Art Deco architecture.)\n\nMost Art Deco buildings in Africa were built during European colonial rule, and often designed by Italian and French architects.\n\nA large number of the Art Deco buildings in Asia were designed by European architects, but in the Philippines local architect Juan Nakpil was preeminent. Many Art Deco landmarks in Asia were demolished during the great economic expansion of Asia the late 20th century, but some notable enclaves of the architecture still remain, particularly in Shanghai and Mumbai.\n\nMelbourne and Sydney Australia have several notable Art Deco buildings, including the Manchester Unity Building and the former Russell Street Police Headquarters in Melbourne, the Castlemaine Art Museum in Castlemaine, central Victoria and the Grace Building, AWA Tower and ANZAC War Memorial in Sydney.\n\nSeveral towns in New Zealand, including Napier and Hastings were rebuilt in Art Deco style after the 1931 Hawke's Bay earthquake, and many of the buildings have been protected and restored. Napier has been nominated for UNESCO World Heritage Site status, the first cultural site in New Zealand to be nominated. Wellington has retained a sizeable number of Art Deco buildings.\n\nIn Canada, surviving Art Deco structures are mainly in the major cities; Montreal, Toronto, Hamilton, Ontario, and Vancouver. They range from public buildings like Vancouver City Hall to commercial buildings (College Park) to public works (R. C. Harris Water Treatment Plant).\nFile:Edificios La Nacional I y II.JPG | La Nacional Buildings Mexico City, Mexico (1932)\nIn Mexico, the most imposing Art Deco example is interior of the Palacio de Bellas Artes (Palace of Fine Arts), finished in 1934 with its elaborate decor and murals. Examples of Art Deco residential architecture can be found in the Condesa neighborhood, many designed by Francisco J. Serrano.\n\nIn the United States, Art Deco buildings are found from coast to coast, in all the major cities. It was most widely used for office buildings, train stations, airport terminals, and movie theaters; residential buildings are rare. In the 1930s, the more austere streamline style became popular. Many buildings were demolished between 1945 and the late 1960s, but then efforts began to protect the best examples. The City of Miami Beach established the Miami Beach Architectural District to preserve the colorful collection of Art Deco buildings found there.\n\nArt Deco buildings can be found throughout Central America. A particularly rich \ncollection is found in Cuba, built largely for the large number of tourists who came to the island from the United States. One such building is the López Serrano built between 1929 and 1932 in the Vedado section of Havana.\n\nThe architectural style first appeared in Paris with the Théâtre des Champs-Élysées (1910–13) by Auguste Perret but then spread rapidly around Europe, until examples could be found in nearly every large city, from London to Moscow. In Germany two variations of Art Deco flourished in the 1920s and 30s: The Neue Sachlichkeit style and Expressionist architecture. Notable examples include Erich Mendelsohn's Mossehaus and Schaubühne theater in Berlin, Fritz Höger's Chilehaus in Hamburg and his Kirche am Hohenzollernplatz in Berlin, the Anzeiger Tower in Hannover and the Borsig Tower in Berlin.\n\nOne of the largest Art Deco buildings in Western Europe is the Basilica of the Sacred Heart in Koekelberg, Brussels. In 1925, architect Albert van Huffel won the Grand Prize for Architecture with his scale model of the basilica at the Exposition Internationale des Arts Décoratifs et Industriels Modernes in Paris.\n\nSpain and Portugal have some striking examples of Art Deco buildings, particularly movie theaters. Examples in Portugal are the Capitólio Theater (1931) and the Éden Cine-Theater (1937) in Lisbon, the Rivoli Theater (1937) and the Coliseu (1941) in Porto and the Rosa Damasceno Theater (1937) in Santarém. An example in Spain is the Cine Rialto in Valencia (1939).\n\nDuring the 1930s, Art Deco had a noticeable effect on house design in the United Kingdom, as well as the design of various public buildings. Straight, white-rendered house frontages rising to flat roofs, sharply geometric door surrounds and tall windows, as well as convex-curved metal corner windows, were all characteristic of that period.\n\nThe London Underground is famous for many examples of Art Deco architecture, and there are a number of buildings in the style situated along the Golden Mile in Brentford. Also in West London is the Hoover Building, which was originally built for The Hoover Company and was converted into a superstore in the early 1990s.\n\nThe Indian Institute of Architects, founded in Bombay in 1929, played a prominent role in propagating the Art Deco movement. In November 1937, this institute organized the ‘Ideal Home Exhibition’ held in the Town Hall in Bombay which spanned over 12 days and attracted about one hundred thousand visitors. As a result, it was declared a success by the 'Journal of the Indian Institute of Architects'. The exhibits displayed the ‘ideal’, or better described as the most ‘modern’ arrangements for various parts of the house, paying close detail to avoid architectural blunders and present the most efficient and well-thought-out models. The exhibition focused on various elements of a home ranging from furniture, elements of interior decoration as well as radios and refrigerators using new and scientifically relevant materials and methods.\nGuided by their desire to emulate the west, the Indian architects were fascinated by the industrial modernity that Art Deco offered. The western elites were the first to experiment with the technologically advanced facets of Art Deco, and architects began the process of transformation by the early 1930s.\n\nBombay’s expanding port commerce in the 1930s resulted in the growth of educated middle class population. It also saw an increase of people migrating to Bombay in search of job opportunities. This led to the pressing need for new developments through Land Reclamation Schemes and construction of new public and residential buildings. Parallelly, the changing political climate in the country and the aspirational quality of the Art Deco aesthetics led to a whole-hearted acceptance of the building style in the city’s development. Most of the buildings from this period can be seen spread throughout the city neighbourhoods in areas such as Churchgate, Colaba, Fort, Mohammed Ali Road, Cumbala Hill, Dadar, Matunga, Bandra and Chembur.\n\nThe Art Deco in South America is present especially at the countries that received a great wave of immigration on the first half of the 20th century, with notable works at their richest cities, like São Paulo and Rio de Janeiro in Brazil and Buenos Aires in Argentina.The Kavanagh building in Buenos Aires (1934), by Sánchez, Lagos and de la Torre, was the tallest reinforced concrete structure when it was completed, and a notable example of late Art Deco style.\n\nIn many cities, efforts have been made to protect the remaining Art Deco buildings. In many U.S. cities, historic art deco movie theaters have been preserved and turned into cultural centers. Even more modest art deco buildings have been preserved as part of America's architectural heritage; an art deco cafe and gas station along Route 66 in Shamrock, Texas is an historic monument. The Miami Beach Architectural District protects several hundred old buildings, and requires that new buildings comply with the style. In Havana, Cuba, a large number of Art Deco buildings have badly deteriorated. Efforts are underway to bring the buildings back to their original color and appearance.\n\nIn the 21st century, modern variants of Art Deco, called Neo Art Deco (or Neo-Art Deco), have appeared in some American cities, inspired by the classic Art Deco buildings of the 1920s and 1930s. Examples include the NBC Tower in Chicago, inspired by 30 Rockefeller Plaza in New York City; and Smith Center for the Performing Arts in Las Vegas, Nevada, which includes art deco features from Hoover Dam, fifty miles away.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "39241399", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39241399", "title": "Arthur Dessoye", "text": "Arthur Dessoye\n\nArthur Dessoye (23 August 1854, Auberive – 30 April 1927) was a French politician. He represented the Independent Radicals in the Chamber of Deputies from 1906 to 1919. He was Minister of Public Instruction in 1914.\n\n"}
{"id": "6996435", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6996435", "title": "Association of American Editorial Cartoonists", "text": "Association of American Editorial Cartoonists\n\nThe Association of American Editorial Cartoonists (AAEC) is a professional association concerned with promoting the interests of staff, freelance and student editorial cartoonists in the United States, Canada and Mexico. With nearly 300 members, it is the world's largest organization of political cartoonists.\n\nThe AAEC has filed friend-of-the-court briefs in several cases dealing with freedom of the press, including the 1988 Supreme Court case \"Flynt v. Falwell\" (Hustler Magazine v. Falwell). Aside from First Amendment issues, the Association does not take sides in political controversies.\n\nFormed in 1957 by a small group of newspaper cartoonists led by John Stampone of the \"Army Times\", the AAEC was created to promote and stimulate public interest in the editorial page cartoon and to create closer contact among political cartoonists. Each year, the annual AAEC convention is held in a different North American city, allowing cartoonists and other association members—including publishers, writers, historians and collectors—the chance to meet face-to-face, talk shop, and generally kvetch.\n\nThe AAEC follows the publishing industry and member artists through weekly news updates at its web site EditorialCartoonists.com, and in its quarterly magazine, the \"Notebook.\" The AAEC site also offers dozens of new editorial cartoons each day, and a recent archive of nearly 40,000 cartoons.\n\nThe AAEC also sponsors a Cartoons for the Classroom program designed to aid educators at all levels in teaching history, economics, social studies and current events.\n\nIn 2007, the AAEC met over the 4th of July weekend in Washington D.C. to celebrate its 50th Anniversary.\n\nIn 2008, AAEC joined over 60 other art licensing businesses (including the Artists Rights Society, Society of Children's Book Writers and Illustrators, the Stock Artists Alliance, Illustrator's Partnership of America and the Advertising Photographers of America, among others) in opposing both The Orphan Works Act of 2008 and The Shawn Bentley Orphan Works Act of 2008. Known collectively as \"Artists United Against the U.S. Orphan Works Acts,\" the diverse organizations joined forces to oppose the bills, which the groups believe \"permits, and even encourages, wide-scale infringements while depriving creators of protections currently available under the Copyright Act.\"\n\nFor the last two decades, the AAEC has sponsored the John Locher Memorial Award, given each year to the most promising student cartoonist. The Award was named in honor of the late son of Dick and Mary Locher, who felt the need to establish an award that would not only honor the memory of John Locher but also would help discover young cartoonists and stimulate interest in editorial cartooning among college-age students in North America.\n\n"}
{"id": "6477682", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6477682", "title": "Benjamin Zipursky", "text": "Benjamin Zipursky\n\nBenjamin Charles Zipursky (born 1960) is a Canadian legal scholar and professor at Fordham Law in New York City. He has been interviewed by \"PBS Newshour\", BBC, and \"The New York Times\" on the Vioxx wrongful death cases and other torts cases. As an author of the casebook \"Tort Law: Responsibilities and Redress\" (along with professors John C. P. Goldberg and Anthony Sebok), he is nationally recognized as a scholar on torts.\n\nHe is also a noted scholar in jurisprudence and legal philosophy, having introduced \"Civil Recourse Theory\" in the 1998 article \"Rights, Wrongs, and Recourse in the Law of Torts\". Contrary to economic theorists, Zipursky argues that tort law is about legal wrongs and legal rights, not just about economic efficiency. Contrary to corrective justice theorists, he argues that private law is more about empowering individuals to seek redress for wrongs, and less about compensating for losses.\n\nSince 1998, Zipursky, along with collaborator and co-author Goldberg, has published a book and numerous articles, essays, and book chapters on civil recourse theory. Civil recourse theory has generated several conferences and commentaries from judges and academics in the United States and abroad.\n\nZipursky has twice served as Associate Dean at Fordham University School of Law, where he currently holds the James H. Quinn '49 Chair in Legal Ethics. He has taught as a Visiting Professor at Columbia Law School, Harvard Law School, and Vanderbilt University School of Law. In addition to products liability law, tort law, and philosophical theory of private law, his scholarly work also addresses analytic legal philosophy, legal ethics, and constitutional theory.\n\nHe was born and raised in Winnipeg, Manitoba, Canada and grew up in Hamilton, Ontario, Canada. He received his Bachelor of Arts degree from Swarthmore College in 1982, his Doctor of Philosophy degree in philosophy from the University of Pittsburgh in 1987, and his Juris Doctor degree \"magna cum laude\" from New York University School of Law in 1991.\n"}
{"id": "5524643", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5524643", "title": "Big Brother Awards (Australia)", "text": "Big Brother Awards (Australia)\n\n\"Note: The Big Brother Awards have no relationship to the Big Brother TV programme.\"\nSince 1998, over 50 Big Brother Awards ceremonies have been held in 16 countries. They are presented around the world by the national members and affiliated organisations of Privacy International to corporations, public officials and governments that have shown a blatant disregard for privacy, or who have done the most to threaten personal privacy in their countries. \n\nThe Australian Big Brother Awards (the \"Orwells\"), hosted by the Australian Privacy Foundation, were established in 2003. The awards also feature categories for individuals and organisations who have made a major positive contribution to protecting the privacy of Australians.\n\nNominations for the awards are solicited from the public either by mail or email to the APF (Australian Privacy Foundation). Nominations are then forwarded to a panel of judges who identify winners in each category. The judges have absolute discretion, and are not confined to the nominations received by members of the public. The winners are announced at a ceremony.\n\nThe Big Brother Awards for privacy invaders ('The Orwells')\n\nThe ‘Smith’ Awards for privacy defenders\n\n"}
{"id": "23277840", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23277840", "title": "Bookbinding", "text": "Bookbinding\n\nBookbinding is the process of physically assembling a book of codex format from an ordered stack of paper sheets that are folded together into sections or sometimes left as a stack of individual sheets. The stack is then bound together along one edge by either sewing with thread through the folds or by a layer of flexible adhesive. Alternative methods of binding that are cheaper but less permanent include loose-leaf rings, individual screw posts or binding posts, twin loop spine coils, plastic spiral coils, and plastic spine combs. For protection, the bound stack is either wrapped in a flexible cover or attached to stiff boards. Finally, an attractive cover is adhered to the boards, including identifying information and decoration. Book artists or specialists in book decoration can also greatly enhance a book's content by creating book-like objects with artistic merit of exceptional quality.\n\nBefore the computer age, the bookbinding trade involved two divisions. First, there was Stationery binding (known as vellum binding in the trade) that deals with books intended for handwritten entries such as accounting ledgers, business journals, blank books, and guest log books, along with other general office stationery such as note books, manifold books, day books, diaries, portfolios, etc. Computers have now replaced the pen and paper based accounting that constituted most of the stationery binding industry. Second was Letterpress binding which deals with making books intended for reading, including library binding, fine binding, edition binding, and publisher's bindings. A third division deals with the repair, restoration, and conservation of old used bindings.\n\nToday, modern bookbinding is divided between hand binding by individual craftsmen working in a shop and commercial bindings mass-produced by high-speed machines in a factory. There is a broad grey area between the two divisions. The size and complexity of a bindery shop varies with job types, for example, from one-of-a-kind custom jobs, to repair/restoration work, to library rebinding, to preservation binding, to small edition binding, to extra binding, and finally to large-run publisher's binding. There are cases where the printing and binding jobs are combined in one shop. For the largest numbers of copies, commercial binding is effected by production runs of ten thousand copies or more in a factory.\n\nBookbinding is a specialized trade that relies on basic operations of measuring, cutting, and gluing. A finished book might need dozens of operations to complete, according to the specific style and materials. Bookbinding combines skills from other trades such as paper and fabric crafts, leather work, model making, and graphic arts. It requires knowledge about numerous varieties of book structures along with all the internal and external details of assembly. A working knowledge of the materials involved is required. A book craftsman needs a minimum set of hand tools but with experience will find an extensive collection of secondary hand tools and even items of heavy equipment that are valuable for greater speed, accuracy, and efficiency.\n\nBookbinding is an artistic craft of great antiquity, and at the same time, a highly mechanized industry. The division between craft and industry is not so wide as might at first be imagined. It is interesting to observe that the main problems faced by the mass-production bookbinder are the same as those that confronted the medieval craftsman or the modern hand binder. The first problem is still how to hold together the pages of a book; secondly is how to cover and protect the gathering of pages once they are held together; and thirdly, how to label and decorate the protective cover.\n\nThe craft of bookbinding probably originated in India, where religious sutras were copied on to palm leaves (cut into two, lengthwise) with a metal stylus. The leaf was then dried and rubbed with ink, which would form a stain in the wound. The finished leaves were given numbers, and two long twines were threaded through each end through wooden boards, making a palm-leaf book. When the book was closed, the excess twine would be wrapped around the boards to protect the manuscript leaves. Buddhist monks took the idea through Afghanistan to China in the first century BC.\n\nSimilar techniques can also be found in ancient Egypt where priestly texts were compiled on scrolls and books of papyrus. Another version of bookmaking can be seen through the ancient Mayan codex; only four are known to have survived the Spanish invasion of Latin America.\n\nWriters in the Hellenistic-Roman culture wrote longer texts as scrolls; these were stored in boxes or shelving with small cubbyholes, similar to a modern winerack. Court records and notes were written on wax tablets, while important documents were written on papyrus or parchment. The modern English word \"book\" comes from the Proto-Germanic \"*bokiz\", referring to the beechwood on which early written works were recorded.\n\nThe book was not needed in ancient times, as many early Greek texts—scrolls—were 30 pages long, which were customarily folded accordion-fashion to fit into the hand. Roman works were often longer, running to hundreds of pages. The Greeks used to call their books \"tome\", meaning \"to cut\". The Egyptian Book of the Dead was a massive 200 pages long and was used in funerary services for the deceased. Torah scrolls, editions of the Jewish holy book, were—and still are—also held in special holders when read.\n\nScrolls can be rolled in one of two ways. The first method is to wrap the scroll around a single core, similar to a modern roll of paper towels. While simple to construct, a single core scroll has a major disadvantage: in order to read text at the end of the scroll, the entire scroll must be unwound. This is partially overcome in the second method, which is to wrap the scroll around two cores, as in a Torah. With a double scroll, the text can be accessed from both beginning and end, and the portions of the scroll not being read can remain wound. This still leaves the scroll a sequential-access medium: to reach a given page, one generally has to unroll and re-roll many other pages.\n\nIn addition to the scroll, wax tablets were commonly used in Antiquity as a writing surface. Diptychs and later polyptych formats were often hinged together along one edge, analogous to the spine of modern books, as well as a folding \"concertina\" format. Such a set of simple wooden boards sewn together was called by the Romans a codex (pl. codices)—from the Latin word \"caudex\", meaning \"the trunk\" of a tree, around the first century AD. Two ancient polyptychs, a \"pentaptych\" and \"octoptych\", excavated at Herculaneum employed a unique connecting system that presages later sewing on thongs or cords.\n\nAt the turn of the first century, a kind of folded parchment notebook called \"pugillares membranei\" in Latin, became commonly used for writing throughout the Roman Empire. This term was used by both the pagan Roman poet Martial and Christian apostle Paul the Apostle. Martial used the term with reference to gifts of literature exchanged by Romans during the festival of Saturnalia. According to T. C. Skeat, \"in at least three cases and probably in all, in the form of codices\" and he theorized that this form of notebook was invented in Rome and then \"must have spread rapidly to the Near East\". In his discussion of one of the earliest pagan parchment codices to survive from Oxyrhynchus in Egypt, Eric Turner seems to challenge Skeat's notion when stating \"its mere existence is evidence that this book form had a prehistory\" and that \"early experiments with this book form may well have taken place outside of Egypt\".\n\nEarly intact codices were discovered at Nag Hammadi in Egypt. Consisting of primarily Gnostic texts in Coptic, the books were mostly written on papyrus, and while many are single-quire, a few are multi-quire. Codices were a significant improvement over papyrus or vellum scrolls in that they were easier to handle. However, despite allowing writing on both sides of the leaves, they were still foliated—numbered on the leaves, like the Indian books. The idea spread quickly through the early churches, and the word \"Bible\" comes from the town where the Byzantine monks established their first scriptorium, Byblos, in modern Lebanon. The idea of numbering each side of the page—Latin \"pagina\", \"to fasten\"—appeared when the text of the individual testaments of the Bible were combined and text had to be searched through more quickly. This book format became the preferred way of preserving manuscript or printed material.\n\nThe codex-style book, using sheets of either papyrus or vellum (before the spread of Chinese papermaking outside of Imperial China), was invented in the Roman Empire during the 1st century AD. First described by the poet Martial from Roman Spain, it largely replaced earlier writing mediums such as wax tablets and scrolls by the year 300 AD. By the 6th century AD, the scroll and wax tablet had been completely replaced by the codex in the Western world.\n\nWestern books from the fifth century onwards were bound between hard covers, with pages made from parchment folded and sewn onto strong cords or ligaments that were attached to wooden boards and covered with leather. Since early books were exclusively handwritten on handmade materials, sizes and styles varied considerably, and there was no standard of uniformity. Early and medieval codices were bound with flat spines, and it was not until the fifteenth century that books began to have the rounded spines associated with hardcovers today. Because the vellum of early books would react to humidity by swelling, causing the book to take on a characteristic wedge shape, the wooden covers of medieval books were often secured with straps or clasps. These straps, along with metal bosses on the book's covers to keep it raised off the surface that it rests on, are collectively known as furniture.\n\nThe earliest surviving European bookbinding is the St Cuthbert Gospel of about 700, in red goatskin, now in the British Library, whose decoration includes raised patterns and coloured tooled designs. Very grand manuscripts for liturgical rather than library use had covers in metalwork called treasure bindings, often studded with gems and incorporating ivory relief panels or enamel elements. Very few of these have survived intact, as they have been broken up for their precious materials, but a fair number of the ivory panels have survived, as they were hard to recycle; the divided panels from the Codex Aureus of Lorsch are among the most notable. The 8th century Vienna Coronation Gospels were given a new gold relief cover in about 1500, and the Lindau Gospels (now Morgan Library, New York) have their original cover from around 800.\n\nLuxury medieval books for the library had leather covers decorated, often all over, with tooling (incised lines or patterns), blind stamps, and often small metal pieces of furniture. Medieval stamps showed animals and figures as well as the vegetal and geometric designs that would later dominate book cover decoration. Until the end of the period books were not usually stood up on shelves in the modern way. The most functional books were bound in plain white vellum over boards, and had a brief title hand-written on the spine. Techniques for fixing gold leaf under the tooling and stamps were imported from the Islamic world in the 15th century, and thereafter the gold-tooled leather binding has remained the conventional choice for high quality bindings for collectors, though cheaper bindings that only used gold for the title on the spine, or not at all, were always more common. Although the arrival of the printed book vastly increased the number of books produced in Europe, it did not in itself change the various styles of binding used, except that vellum became much less used.\n\nAlthough early, coarse hempen paper had existed in China during the Western Han period (202 BC - 9 AD), the Eastern-Han Chinese court eunuch Cai Lun (ca. 50 AD – 121 AD) introduced the first significant improvement and standardization of papermaking by adding essential new materials into its composition.\n\nIn the 8th century Arabs learned the arts of papermaking from the Chinese and were then the first to bind paper into books at the start of the Islamic Golden Age. Particular skills were developed for Arabic calligraphy, miniatures and bookbinding. The people who worked in making books were called \"Warraqin\" or paper professionals. The Arabs made books lighter—sewn with silk and bound with leather covered paste boards, they had a flap that wrapped the book up when not in use. As paper was less reactive to humidity, the heavy boards were not needed. The production of books became a real industry and cities like Marrakech, Morocco, had a street named \"Kutubiyyin\" or book sellers, which contained more than 100 bookshops in the 12th century. The famous Koutoubia Mosque is named so because of its location on this street. Because the Qur'an itself was considered a sacred object, in order to beautify the book containing the holy scripture, a culture of calligraphy and lavish bookbinding developed.\n\nBookbinding in medieval China replaced traditional Chinese writing supports such as bamboo and wooden slips, as well as silk and paper scrolls. The evolution of the codex in China began with folded-leaf pamphlets in the 9th century AD, during the late Tang Dynasty (618-907 AD), improved by the 'butterfly' bindings of the Song dynasty (960-1279 AD), the wrapped back binding of the Yuan dynasty (1271-1368), the stitched binding of the Ming (1368-1644 AD) and Qing dynasties (1644-1912), and finally the adoption of Western-style bookbinding in the 20th century (coupled with the European printing press that replaced traditional Chinese printing methods). The initial phase of this evolution, the accordion-folded palm-leaf-style book, most likely came from India and was introduced to China via Buddhist missionaries and scriptures. \n\nWith the arrival (from the East) of rag paper manufacturing in Europe in the late Middle Ages and the use of the printing press beginning in the mid-15th century, bookbinding began to standardize somewhat, but page sizes still varied considerably.\n\nIn the early sixteenth century, the Italian printer Aldus Manutius realized that personal books would need to fit in saddle bags and thus produced books in the smaller formats of \"quartos\" (one-quarter-size pages) and \"octavos\" (one-eighth-size pages).\n\nWith printing, the books became more accessible and were stored on their side on long shelves for the first time. Clasps were removed, and titles were added to the spine.\n\nLeipzig, a prominent centre of the German book-trade, in 1739 had 20 bookshops, 15 printing establishments, 22 book-binders and three type-foundries in a population of 28,000 people.\n\nIn the German book-distribution system of the late 18th and early 19th centuries, the end-user buyers of books \"generally made separate arrangements with either the publisher or a bookbinder to have printed sheets bound according to their wishes and their budget\".\n\nThe reduced cost of books facilitated cheap lightweight Bibles, made from tissue-thin oxford paper, with floppy covers, that resembled the early Arabic Qurans, enabling missionaries to take portable books with them around the world, and modern wood glues enabled the addition of paperback covers to simple glue bindings.\n\nHistorical forms of binding include the following:\n\n\nSome older presses could not separate the pages of a book, so readers used a paper knife to separate the outer edges of pages as a book was read.\n\nThere are various commercial techniques in use today. Today, most commercially produced books belong to one of four categories:\n\nA hardcover, hardbound or hardback book has rigid covers and is stitched in the spine. Looking from the top of the spine, the book can be seen to consist of a number of signatures bound together. When the book is opened in the middle of a signature, the binding threads are visible. Signatures of hardcover books are typically octavo (a single sheet folded three times), though they may also be folio, quarto, or 16mo (see Book size). Unusually large and heavy books are sometimes bound with wire.\n\nUntil the mid-20th century, covers of mass-produced books were laid with cloth, but from that period onward, most publishers adopted clothette, a kind of textured paper which vaguely resembles cloth but is easily differentiated on close inspection. Most cloth-bound books are now half-and-half covers with cloth covering only the spine. In that case, the cover has a paper overlap. The covers of modern hardback books are made of thick cardboard.\n\nSome books that appeared in the mid-20th century signature-bound appear in reprinted editions in glued-together editions. Copies of such books stitched together in their original format are often difficult to find, and are much sought after for both aesthetic and practical reasons.\n\nA variation of the hardcover which is more durable is the calf-binding, where the cover is either half or fully clad in leather, usually from a calf. This is also called full-bound or, simply, leather bound.\n\nLibrary binding refers to the hardcover binding of books intended for the rigors of library use and are largely serials and paperback publications. Though many publishers have started to provide \"library binding\" editions, many libraries elect to purchase paperbacks and have them rebound as hardcover books, resulting in longer life for the material.\n\nThere are a number of methods used to bind hardcover books, from them:\nDifferent types of the \"punch and bind\" binding include:\n\nSome of the different types of thermally activated binding include:\n\nTypes of stitched or sewn bindings:\n\nModern bookbinding by hand can be seen as two closely allied fields: the creation of new bindings, and the repair of existing bindings. Bookbinders are often active in both fields. Bookbinders can learn the craft through apprenticeship; by attending specialized trade schools; by taking classes in the course of university studies, or by a combination of those methods. Some European countries offer a \"Master Bookbinder\" certification, though no such certification exists in the United States. MFA programs that specialize in the 'Book Arts' (hand paper-making, printmaking and bookbinding) are available through certain colleges and universities.\n\nHand bookbinders create new bindings that run the gamut from historical book structures made with traditional materials to modern structures made with 21st-century materials, and from basic cloth-case bindings to valuable full-leather fine bindings. Repairs to existing books also encompass a broad range of techniques, from minimally invasive conservation of a historic book to the full restoration and rebinding of a text.\n\nThough almost any existing book can be repaired to some extent, only books that were originally sewn can be rebound by resewing. Repairs or restorations are often done to emulate the style of the original binding. For new works, some publishers print unbound manuscripts which a binder can collate and bind, but often an existing commercially bound book is \"pulled\", or taken apart, in order to be given a new binding. Once the textblock of the book has been pulled, it can be rebound in almost any structure; a modern suspense novel, for instance, could be rebound to look like a 16th-century manuscript. Bookbinders may bind several copies of the same text, giving each copy a unique appearance.\n\nHand bookbinders use a variety of specialized hand tools, the most emblematic of which is the bonefolder, a flat, tapered, polished piece of bone used to crease paper and apply pressure. Additional tools common to hand bookbinding include a variety of knives and hammers, as well as brass tools used during finishing.\n\nWhen creating new work, modern hand binders often work on commission, creating bindings for specific books or collections. Books can be bound in many different materials. Some of the more common materials for covers are leather, decorative paper, and cloth (see also: buckram). Those bindings that are made with exceptionally high craftsmanship, and that are made of particularly high-quality materials (especially full leather bindings), are known as \"fine\" or \"extra\" bindings. Also, when creating a new work, modern binders may wish to select a book that has already been printed and create what is known as a 'design binding'. \"In a typical design binding, the binder selects an already printed book, disassembles it, and rebinds it in a style of fine binding—rounded and backed spine, laced-in boards, sewn headbands, decorative end sheets, leather cover etc.\"\n\nConservation and restoration are practices intended to repair damage to an existing book. While they share methods, their goals differ. The goal of conservation is to slow the book's decay and restore it to a usable state while altering its physical properties as little as possible. Conservation methods have been developed in the course of taking care of large collections of books. The term archival comes from taking care of the institutions archive of books. The goal of restoration is to return the book to a previous state as envisioned by the restorer, often imagined as the original state of the book. The methods of restoration have been developed by bookbinders with private clients mostly interested in improving their collections.\n\nIn either case, one of the modern standard for conservation and restoration is \"reversibility\". That is, any repair should be done in such a way that it can be undone if and when a better technique is developed in the future. Bookbinders echo the physician's creed, \"First, do no harm\". While reversibility is one standard, longevity of the functioning of the book is also very important and sometimes takes precedence over reversibility especially in areas that are invisible to the reader such as the spine lining.\nBooks requiring restoration or conservation treatment run the gamut from the very earliest of texts to books with modern bindings that have undergone heavy usage. For each book, a course of treatment must be chosen that takes into account the book's value, whether it comes from the binding, the text, the provenance, or some combination of the three. Many people choose to rebind books, from amateurs who restore old paperbacks on internet instructions to many professional book and paper conservators and restorationists, who often in the United States are members of the American Institute for Conservation of Historic and Artistic Works (AIC).\n\nMany times, books that need to be restored are hundreds of years old, and the handling of the pages and binding has to be undertaken with great care and a delicate hand. The archival process of restoration and conservation can extend a book's life for many decades and is necessary to preserve books that sometimes are limited to a small handful of remaining copies worldwide.\n\nTypically, the first step in saving and preserving a book is its deconstruction. The text pages need to be separated from the covers and, only if necessary, the stitching removed. This is done as delicately as possible. All page restoration is done at this point, be it the removal of foxing, ink stains, page tears, etc. Various techniques are employed to repair the various types of page damage that might have occurred during the life of the book.\n\nThe preparation of the \"foundations\" of the book could mean the difference between a beautiful work of art and a useless stack of paper and leather.\n\nThe sections are then hand-sewn in the style of its period, back into book form, or the original sewing is strengthened with new lining on the text-spine. New hinges must be accounted for in either case both with text-spine lining and some sort of end-sheet restoration.\n\nThe next step is the restoration of the book cover; This can be as complicated as completely re-creating a period binding to match the original using whatever is appropriate for that time it was originally created. Sometimes this means a new full leather binding with vegetable tanned leather, dyed with natural dyes, and hand-marbled papers may be used for the sides or end-sheets. Finally the cover is hand-tooled in gold leaf. The design of the book cover involves such hand-tooling, where an extremely thin layer of gold is applied to the cover. Such designs can be lettering, symbols, or floral designs, depending on the nature of any particular project.\n\nSometimes the restoration of the cover is a matter of surgically strengthening the original cover by lifting the original materials and applying new materials for strength. This is perhaps a more common method for covers made with book-cloth although leather books can be approached this way as well. Materials such as Japanese tissues of various weights may be used. Colors may be matched using acrylic paints or simple colored pencils.\n\nIt is harder to restore leather books typically because of the fragility of the materials.\n\nMost of the following terms apply only with respect to American practices:\n\nThough books are sold as hardcover or paperback, the actual binding of the pages is important to durability.\nMost paperbacks and some hard cover books have a \"perfect binding\". The pages are aligned or cut together and glued. A strong and flexible layer, which may or may not be the glue itself, holds the book together. In the case of a paperback, the visible portion of the spine is part of this flexible layer.\n\nIn languages written from left to right, such as English, books are bound on the left side of the cover; looking from on top, the pages increase counter-clockwise. In right-to-left languages, books are bound on the right. In both cases, this is so the end of a page coincides with where it is turned. Many translations of Japanese comic books retain the binding on the right, which allows the art, laid out to be read right-to-left, to be published without mirror-imaging it.\n\nIn China (only areas using Traditional Chinese), Japan, and Taiwan, literary books are written top-to-bottom, right-to-left, and thus are bound on the right, while text books are written left-to-right, top-to-bottom, and thus are bound on the left. In mainland China the direction of writing and binding for all books was changed to be like left to right languages in the mid-20th century.\n\nEarly books did not have titles on their spines; rather they were shelved flat with their spines inward—as is still common in Republic of South Africa—and titles written with ink along their fore edges. Modern books display their titles on their spines.\n\nIn languages with Chinese-influenced writing systems, the title is written top-to-bottom, as is the language in general. In languages written horizontally, conventions differ about the direction in which the title on the spine is rotated:\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "36982600", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36982600", "title": "Bridgeness Slab", "text": "Bridgeness Slab\n\nThe Bridgeness Slab is a Roman distance slab created around 142 CE marking a portion of the Antonine Wall built by the Second Legion. It is regarded as the most detailed and well preserved of the Scottish distance slabs. The sandstone tablet was found at Bridgeness in Bo'ness, Scotland in 1868 on a promontory close to Harbour Road. The original is in the National Museum of Scotland in Edinburgh, while a replica is near the site of its discovery.\n\nThe slab was erected 142 CE to mark the completion of a section of the Antonine Wall. It was uncovered during excavations in 1868 on land owned by Henry Mowbray Cadell, whose son Dr Henry Cadell was an eyewitness of its discovery. Cadell offered it to the Society of Antiquaries of Scotland for display in the National Museum of Scotland in Edinburgh if they would provide a copy for display locally. \n\nThe first on-site replica includes only the centre panel of the original. A second replica, including the side panels, was unveiled by Bo'ness Community Council and Falkirk Council on 7 September 2012 at in Kinningars Park, Bridgeness, Bo'ness. The replica was based on the original as was an older copy of the stone now in the Hunterian Museum. The Bo'ness replica was made using digital laser scanning since silicone or other moulds risked damaging the slab.\n\nThe inscription in the centre panel reads \"\"Imp CaesTito Aelio / Hadriano Antonino Aug Pio p p legII Aug / per m p ĪĪĪĪ DCLXVI s / FEC\", which when expanded reads as \"Imp(eratori) Caes(ari) Tito Aelio Hadriano Antonino/ Aug(usto) Pio p(atri) p(atriae) leg(io) II Aug(usta) per m(ilia) p(assuum) IIII(milia)DCLII s(emis)\"\". In English this translates as \"For the Emperor Caesar Titus Aelius Hadrianus Antoninus Augustus Pius, Father of his Country, the Second Augustan Legion completed [the Wall] over a distance of 4652 paces\".\n\nIn addition to the Latin inscription the original has sculpted panels. \n\nOn the left is a victorious, Roman cavalryman with four naked Britons: one being trampled holding a shield, one running with a spear in his back, one sitting in apparent despair, and one of whom is bound and beheaded. It has been suggested that the last act was a show of contempt for Gallo-Briton head veneration. The propaganda, particularly Roman depiction of natives is consistent with other slabs like the ones from Balmuildy and Westerwood. \n\nOn the right panel is a depiction of the suovetaurilia, a ceremony undertaken before important campaigns or in this case before the wall was built. The arch top of a temple is depicted. Four soldiers are shown, one carrying the vexillum, or cavalry flag, of the Second Legion. A man in a toga, possibly Aulus Claudius Charax- commander of the Second Legion, is depicted pouring a libation on an altar as a preliminary to sacrificing a bull, a pig and a sheep. The sounds of the slaughter may have been drowned out by the musical instruments which are shown being played. The inscription records the building of 4652 paces of the Antonine Wall.\n\nWashing revealed faint traces of pigments, mainly red, have survived on the original stone suggesting that it was once highly coloured.\n\nThe slab is reminiscent of one from Summerston, now in the Hunterian Museum, which was also made by the Second Legion which similarly depicts a helmeted horseman and naked captives.\nOther distance slabs by the Second Legion have been mapped with RTI and include \none from Balmuildy \nand another from Duntocher. \nBoth of these items are now kept in the Hunterian Museum. Glasgow. \n\n"}
{"id": "14093476", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14093476", "title": "Commissioning editor", "text": "Commissioning editor\n\nIn book publishing, a commissioning editor is essentially a buyer. It is the job of the commissioning editor to advise the publishing house on which books to publish. Usually the actual decision of whether to contract a book is taken by a senior manager rather than the editor.\n\nThe other roles of commissioning editors vary between companies. Usually they are also responsible for ensuring that authors under contract deliver typescripts to specification and on time. They thus have an author management role. They usually have responsibility for ensuring that typescripts are of sufficient quality. In this, especially in textbook and reference publishing, commissioning editors may be assisted by development editors or assistant editors. Furthermore, in textbook companies, this role is responsible for managing title revisions, signing new authors, and ensuring products are profitable. \n\nIn some (usually small) companies commissioning editors are also responsible for overseeing the copy-editing, typesetting, proofreading, and design of books, although in other companies this responsibility is assumed by other staff e.g. Managing Editors, House Editors, and Production Editors.\n\nOften commissioning editors are also responsible for managing books that have already been published, for example by ensuring that stock levels are adequate and advising on when a book needs to be reprinted.\n\nCommissioning editors may commission in a number of ways:\n\nSometimes the phrase Acquisitions Editor is used. This is a near synonym for Commissioning Editor. Possibly the word \"Acquisitions\" implies more emphasis on types (4) and (5) above.\n\nCommissioning has not been formulated into a profession. There is little formal training available. Recently there has been some attempt in the UK to articulate and establish professional standards. Most commissioning editors work up to the post through experience in other roles e.g. Editorial Assistant. Some editors see the post as a stepping stone to a senior management job (e.g. Publisher, Editorial Director, Publishing Director); others are content to remain in the post and to build a reputation as a star editor.\n\nThere is little consensus on what makes good commissioning editors, though most people in the industry would agree that the following are desirable and important:\n\nThe standard work on the subject is Gill Davies' \"Book Commissioning and Acquisition\" (Routledge).\n\n"}
{"id": "27684253", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27684253", "title": "Common Core State Standards Initiative", "text": "Common Core State Standards Initiative\n\nThe Common Core State Standards Initiative is an educational initiative from 2010 that details what K–12 students throughout the United States should know in English language arts and mathematics at the conclusion of each school grade. The initiative is sponsored by the National Governors Association (NGA) and the Council of Chief State School Officers (CCSSO) and seeks to establish consistent educational standards across the states as well as ensure that students graduating from high school are prepared to enter credit-bearing courses at two- or four-year college programs or to enter the workforce.\n\nIn the 1990s, a movement for establishing national standards and accountability began in the United States as states began writing standards (a) outlining what students were expected to know and to be able to do at each grade level, and (b) implementing assessments designed to measure whether students were meeting the standards. As part of this education reform movement, the nation's governors and corporate leaders founded Achieve, Inc. in 1996 as a bipartisan organization to raise academic standards and graduation requirements, improve assessments, and strengthen accountability in all 50 states. The initial motivation for the development of the Common Core State Standards (CCSS) was part of the American Diploma Project (ADP).\n\nA 2004 report, titled \"Ready or Not: Creating a High School Diploma That Counts\", found that employers and colleges are demanding more of high school graduates than in the past. According to Achieve, Inc., \"current high-school exit expectations fall well short of employer and college demands.\" The report explained that the major problem currently facing the American school system is that high school graduates were not provided with the skills and knowledge they needed to succeed in college and careers. Furthermore, \"While students and their parents may still believe that the diploma reflects adequate preparation for the intellectual demands of adult life, in reality it falls far short of this common-sense goal.\" The report also stated that the high school diploma itself lost its value because graduates could not compete successfully beyond high school, and that the solution to this problem is a common set of rigorous standards.\n\nIn 2009, the NGA convened a group of people to work on developing the standards. This team included David Coleman, William McCallum of the University of Arizona, Phil Daro, and Student Achievement Partners founders Jason Zimba and Susan Pimentel to write standards in the areas of English and language arts. Announced on June 1, 2009, the initiative's stated purpose is to \"provide a consistent, clear understanding of what students are expected to learn, so teachers and parents know what they need to do to help them.\" Additionally, \"The standards are designed to be robust and relevant to the real world, reflecting the knowledge and skills that our young people need for success in college and careers,\" which should place American students in a position in which they can compete in a global economy.\n\nThe standards are copyrighted by NGA Center for Best Practices (NGA Center) and the CCSSO, which controls use of and licenses the standards.<ref name=\"corestandards.org/terms-of-use\">Common Core State Standards Initiative | Terms of Use. Common Core State Standards Initiative. Retrieved July 19, 2013.</ref> The NGA Center and CCSSO do this by offering a public license which is used by State Departments of Education.<ref name=\"corestandards.org/public-license\">Common Core State Standards Initiative | Public License. Common Core State Standards Initiative. Retrieved July 19, 2013.</ref> The license states that use of the standards must be \"in support\" of the Common Core State Standards Initiative. It also requires attribution and a copyright notice, except when a state or territory has adopted the standards \"in whole.\"\n\nWhen the CCSS was originally published, there was no intention to publish a common set of standards for English language proficiency development (ELPD). Instead, it was indicated that the ELPD standards would be left to individual states. However, the need for more guidance quickly became apparent, and led to the creation of several initiatives to provide resources to states and educators, including:\nFurthermore, the U.S. Department of Education has since funded two grants to develop the next generation of ELPD assessments, which must measure students’ proficiency against a set of common ELPD standards, which in turn correspond to the college/career-ready standards in English language arts and mathematics. The new assessment system must also:\n\n\nSince 2010, forty-two (42) of the fifty U.S. states and the District of Columbia have been members of the Common Core State Standards Initiative, while Oklahoma, Texas, Virginia, Alaska, Nebraska, Indiana, and South Carolina did not adopt the initiative at a state level. Minnesota adopted the English Language Arts standards but not the Mathematics standards. Although starting as a fast trend, the curriculum lost momentum and found at least 12 states introducing legislation to prohibit implementation. Four states that initially adopted Common Core have since decided to repeal or replace it: Indiana, Arizona, Oklahoma, and South Carolina.\n\nStandards were released for mathematics and English language arts on June 2, 2010, with a majority of states adopting the standards in the subsequent months. (See map for current status.) States were given an incentive to adopt the Common Core Standards through the possibility of competitive federal Race to the Top grants. U.S. President Barack Obama and U.S. Secretary of Education Arne Duncan announced the Race to the Top competitive grants on July 24, 2009, as a motivator for education reform. To be eligible, states had to adopt \"internationally benchmarked standards and assessments that prepare students for success in college and the work place.\" Though states could adopt other college- and career-ready standards and still be eligible, they were awarded extra points in their Race to the Top applications if they adopted the Common Core standards by August 2, 2010. Forty-one states made the promise in their application. Virginia and Texas were two states that chose to write their own college and career-ready standards, and were subsequently eligible for Race to the Top. Development of the Common Core Standards was funded by the governors and state schools chiefs, with additional support from the Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation, Pearson Publishing Company, the Charles Stewart Mott Foundation, and others.\n\nUntil the Every Student Succeeds Act was passed in December 2015, the US Department of Education had encouraged states to adopt the Common Core Standards by tying the grant of waivers from the No Child Left Behind Act to adoption of the Standards. However, the Every Student Succeeds Act not only replaced the No Child Left Behind Act, it also expressly prohibits the Department of Education from attempting to \"influence, incentivize, or coerce State adoption of the Common Core State Standards ... or any other academic standards common to a significant number of States.\"\n\nThough the Common Core State Standards do not cover science and social studies content standards, the Next Generation Science Standards were released in April 2012 and have been adopted by many states. They are not directly related to the Common Core, but their content can be cross-connected to the mathematical and English Language Arts standards within the Common Core.\n\nThe stated goal of the English Language Arts and Literacy in History/Social Studies, Science, and Technical Subjects standards is to ensure that students are college and career ready in literacy no later than the end of high school. There are five key components to the standards for English and Language Arts: Reading, Writing, Speaking and Listening, Language, and Media and Technology. The essential components and breakdown of each of these key points within the standards are as follows:\n\n\n\n\n\n\nThe stated goal of the mathematics standards is to achieve greater focus and coherence in the curriculum. This is largely in response to the criticism that American mathematics curricula are \"a mile wide and an inch deep\".\n\nThe mathematics standards include Standards for Mathematical Practice and Standards for Mathematical Content.\n\nThe Standards mandate that eight principles of mathematical practice be taught:\n\nThe practices are adapted from the five process standards of the National Council of Teachers of Mathematics and the five strands of proficiency in the U.S. National Research Council's \"Adding It Up\" report. These practices are to be taught in every grade from kindergarten to twelfth grade. Details of how these practices are to be connected to each grade level's mathematics content are left to local implementation of the Standards.\n\nAs an example of mathematical practice, here is the full description of the sixth practice:\nThe standards lay out the mathematics content that should be learned at each grade level from kindergarten to Grade 8 (age 13–14), as well as the mathematics to be learned in high school. The standards do not dictate any particular pedagogy or what order topics should be taught within a particular grade level. Mathematical content is organized in a number of \"domains\". At each grade level there are several \"standards\" for each domain, organized into \"clusters\" of related standards. (See examples below.)\n\nIn addition to detailed standards (of which there are 21 to 28 for each grade from kindergarten to eighth grade), the standards present an overview of \"critical areas\" for each grade. (See examples below.)\n\nIn high school (Grades 9 to 12), the standards do not specify which content is to be taught at each grade level, nor does the Common Core prescribe how a particular standard should be taught. Up to Grade 8, the curriculum is integrated; students study four or five different mathematical domains every year. The standards do not dictate whether the curriculum should continue to be integrated in high school with study of several domains each year (as is done in other countries), or whether the curriculum should be separated out into separate year-long algebra and geometry courses (as has been the tradition in most U.S. states). An appendix to the standards describes four possible pathways for covering high school content (two traditional and two integrated), but states are free to organize the content any way they want.\n\nThere are six conceptual \"categories\" of content to be covered at the high school level:\n\nSome topics in each category are indicated only for students intending to take more advanced, optional courses such as calculus, advanced statistics, or discrete mathematics. Even if the traditional sequence is adopted, functions and modeling are to be integrated across the curriculum, not taught as separate courses. Mathematical Modeling is a Standard for Mathematical Practice (see above), and is meant to be integrated across the entire curriculum beginning in kindergarten. The modeling category does not have its own standards; instead, high school standards in other categories which are intended to be considered part of the modeling category are indicated in the standards with a star symbol.\n\nEach of the six high school categories includes a number of domains. For example, the \"number and quantity\" category contains four domains: the real number system; quantities; the complex number system; and vector and matrix quantities. The \"vector and matrix quantities\" domain is reserved for advanced students, as are some of the standards in \"the complex number system\".\n\nSecond grade example: In the second grade there are 26 standards in four domains. The four critical areas of focus for second grade are (1) extending understanding of base-ten notation; (2) building fluency with addition and subtraction; (3) using standard units of measure; and (4) describing and analyzing shapes. Below are the second grade standards for the domain of \"operations and algebraic thinking\" (Domain 2.OA). This second grade domain contains four standards, organized into three clusters:\n\nDomain example: As an example of the development of a domain across several grades, here are the clusters for learning fractions (Domain NF, which stands for \"Number and Operations—Fractions\") in Grades 3 through 6. Each cluster contains several standards (not listed here):\n\nHigh school example: As an example of a high school category, here are the domains and clusters for algebra. There are four algebra domains (in bold below), each of which is broken down into as many as four clusters (bullet points below). Each cluster contains one to five detailed standards (not listed here). Starred standards, such as the Creating Equations domain (A-CED), are also intended to be part of the modeling category.\n\nAs an example of detailed high school standards, the first cluster above is broken down into two standards as follows:\n\nAccording to the Common Core State Standards Initiative website, formal assessment is expected to take place in the 2014–2015 school year, which coincides with the projected implementation year for most states. The assessment is being created by two consortia with different approaches. The final decision of which assessment to use will be determined by individual state education agencies. Both of these leading consortiums are proposing computer-based exams that include fewer selected and constructed response test items, unlike the Standardized Test that has been more common.\n\nAs of October 2015, SBAC membership was reduced to 20 members: California, Connecticut, Delaware, Hawaii, Idaho, Iowa, Maine, Michigan, Montana, New Hampshire, North Carolina, North Dakota, Oregon, South Dakota, U.S. Virgin Islands, The Bureau of Indian Education, Vermont, Washington, West Virginia, Wyoming.\n\nWhile some states are working together to create a common, universal assessment based on the Common Core State Standards, other states are choosing to work independently or through these two consortiums to develop the assessment. Florida Governor Rick Scott directed his state education board to withdraw from PARCC. Georgia withdrew from the consortium test in July 2013 in order to develop its own. Michigan decided not to participate in Smarter Balanced testing. Oklahoma tentatively withdrew from the consortium test in July 2013 due to the technical challenges of online assessment. And Utah withdrew from the Smarter Balanced Assessment Consortium in August 2012.\n\nThe Common Core State Standards have drawn both support and criticism from politicians, analysts, and commentators. Teams of academics and educators from around the United States led the development of the standards, and additional validation teams approved the final standards. The teams drew on public feedback that was solicited throughout the process and that feedback was incorporated into the standards. The Common Core initiative only specifies what students should know at each grade level and describes the skills that they must acquire in order to achieve college or career readiness. Individual school districts are responsible for choosing curricula based on the standards. Textbooks bearing a Common Core label are not verified by any agency and may or may not represent the intent of the Common Core Standards. Some critics believe most current textbooks are not actually aligned to the Common Core, while others disagree.\n\nThe mathematicians Edward Frenkel and Hung-Hsi Wu wrote in 2013 that the mathematical education in the United States is in \"deep crisis\" caused by the way math is currently taught in schools. Both agree that math textbooks, which are widely adopted across the states, already create \"mediocre de facto national standards\". The texts, they say, \"are often incomprehensible and irrelevant\". The Common Core State Standards address these issues and \"level the playing field\" for students. They point out that adoption of the Common Core State Standards and how best to test students are two separate issues.\n\nIn 2012, Tom Loveless of the Brookings Institution called into question whether the standards will have any effect, and said that they \"have done little to equalize academic achievement within states\". In response to the standards, the libertarian Cato Institute claimed that \"it is not the least bit paranoid to say the federal government wants a national curriculum.\" Some conservatives have assailed the program as a federal \"top-down\" takeover of state and local education systems. South Carolina Governor Nikki Haley said her state should not \"relinquish control of education to the federal government, neither should we cede it to the consensus of other states.\"\n\nEducational analysts from the Thomas B. Fordham Institute determined that the Common Core standards, \"are clearly superior to those currently in use in 39 states in math and 37 states in English. For 33 states, the Common Core is superior in both math and reading.\" According to the National Education Association, the Common Core State Standards are supported by 76% of its teacher members.\n\nA spokesman from ExxonMobil said of Common Core: \"It sets very important milestones and standards for educational achievement while at the same time providing those most invested in the outcome local teachers and administrators with the flexibility they need to best achieve those results\".\n\nThe Heritage Foundation argued in 2010 that the Common Core's focus on national standards would do little to fix deeply ingrained problems and incentive structures within the education system.\n\nMarion Brady, a teacher, and Patrick Murray, an elected member of the school governing board in Bradford, Maine, wrote that Common Core drains initiative from teachers and enforces a \"one-size-fits-all\" curriculum that ignores cultural differences among classrooms and students. Diane Ravitch, former U.S. Assistant Secretary of Education and education historian, wrote in her book \"Reign of Error\" that the Common Core standards have never been field-tested and that no one knows whether they will improve education. Nicholas Tampio, Assistant Professor of Political Science at Fordham University, said that the standards emphasize rote learning and uniformity over creativity, and fail to recognize differences in learning styles.\n\nMichigan State University's Distinguished Professor William Schmidt wrote:\nThe standards require certain critical content for all students, including: classic myths and stories from around the world, America's Founding Documents, foundational American literature, and Shakespeare. In May 2013, the National Catholic Educational Association noted that the standards are a \"set of high-quality academic expectations that all students should master by the end of each grade level\" and are \"not a national curriculum\".\n\nAdvancing one Catholic perspective, over one hundred college-level scholars signed a public letter criticizing the Common Core for diminishing the humanities in the educational curriculum: The \"Common Core adopts a bottom-line, pragmatic approach to education and the heart of its philosophy is, as far as we can see, that it is a waste of resources to 'over-educate' people,\" though the Common Core set only minimum—not maximum—standards. Mark Naison, Fordham University Professor, and co-founder of the Badass Teachers Association, raised a similar objection: \"The liberal critique of Common Core is that this is a huge profit-making enterprise that costs school districts a tremendous amount of money, and pushes out the things kids love about school, like art and music\".\n\nAs Common Core is implemented in New York, the new tests have been criticized. Some parents have said that the new assessments are too difficult and are causing too much stress, leading to an \"opt-out movement\" in which parents refuse to let their children take the tests.\n\nFormer governor Jeb Bush has said of opponents of the standards that while \"criticisms and conspiracy theories are easy attention grabbers\", he instead wanted to hear their solutions to the problems in American education. In 2014, Bobby Jindal wrote that \"It has become fashionable in the news media to believe there is a right-wing conspiracy against Common Core.\"\n\nDiane Ravitch has also stated:\nWriter Jonathan Kozol uses the metaphor \"cognitive decapitation\" to describe the unfulfilling educational experience students are going through due to the subjects that have been excluded in their curriculum as a result of the Common Core. He notes cognitive decapitation is often experienced in urban schools of color, while white children have the privilege to continue engaging in a creative curriculum that involves the arts.\n\nIn 2016, ACT, Inc., administrators of the ACT college readiness assessment, reported that there is a disconnect between what is emphasized in the Common Core and what is deemed important for college readiness by some college instructors. ACT has been a proponent of the Common Core Standards, and Chief Executive Officer Martin Roorda stated that \"ACT's findings should not be interpreted as a rebuke of the Common Core.\"\n\nKentucky was the first to implement the Common Core State Standards, and local school districts began offering new math and English curricula based on the standard in August 2010. In 2013, \"Time\" magazine reported that the high school graduation rate had increased from 80 percent in 2010 to 86 percent in 2013, test scores went up 2 percentage points in the second year of using the Common Core test, and the percentage of students considered to be ready for college or a career, based on a battery of assessments, went up from 34 percent in 2010 to 54 percent in 2013. According to Sarah Butrymowicz from \"The Atlantic\",\nKentucky's experience over the past three school years suggests it will be a slow and potentially frustrating road ahead for the other states that are using the Common Core. Test scores are still dismal, and state officials have expressed concern that the pace of improvement is not fast enough. Districts have also seen varying success in changing how teachers teach, something that was supposed to change under the new standards.\n\nThe Common Core State Standards are considered to be more rigorous than the standards they replaced in Kentucky. Kentucky's old standards received a \"D\" in an analysis by the Thomas B. Fordham Institute. School officials in Kentucky believe it will take several more years to adjust to the new standards, which received an A- in math and a B+ in English from the Fordham Institute.\n\nThe chart below contains the adoption status of the Common Core State Standards as of May 12, 2015. Among the territories of the United States (not listed in the chart below), the U.S. Virgin Islands, Guam, the Northern Mariana Islands, and the American Samoa Islands have adopted the standards while Puerto Rico has not adopted the standards.\n\n"}
{"id": "36274315", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36274315", "title": "Confederate patriotism", "text": "Confederate patriotism\n\nConfederate patriotism refers to the patriotism of people towards the historic Confederate States of America located in what is now the southern United States. This patriotism arose as a result of the rise of an autonomous Confederate identity after the escalation of dispute between United States Northerners and Southerners over states' rights and slavery, Southerners identified themselves as a separate group of people from the people associated with the Union whom Southerners referred to as \"Yankees\".\n\n"}
{"id": "6870351", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6870351", "title": "Doors Open Newfoundland and Labrador", "text": "Doors Open Newfoundland and Labrador\n\nDoors Open Newfoundland and Labrador is a program organized by the Heritage Foundation of Newfoundland and Labrador and the Newfoundland Historic Trust, based on the Doors Open Days concept.\n\nDoors Open provides an opportunity for the citizens and visitors of Newfoundland and Labrador to celebrate the province's architecture and heritage through the exploration of hidden historical, architectural and cultural gems. Buildings that are normally closed to the public, or which charge an entrance fee, welcome visitors to look around for free. \n\nDoors Open Newfoundland and Labrador began in St. John's, Newfoundland in 2003 when sixteen sites received over 27,500 visits.\n\nParticipating communities have included:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "7739465", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7739465", "title": "Edmundo Murray", "text": "Edmundo Murray\n\nEdmundo Murray (b. 1955 in Buenos Aires), is a writer, born in a family with Argentine, Colombian, Irish and Swiss origins.\n\nEdmundo Murray studied in Argentina, the United States and Switzerland. PhD literature from University of Zurich (Romanisches Seminar), M.A. University of Geneva. Editor at WTO Publications, the in-house publisher of the World Trade Organization. Author of \"Devenir irlandés: Narrativas íntimas de la emigración irlandesa a la Argentina 1844-1912\" (Buenos Aires: Eudeba, 2004), which has been published in English as \"Becoming Irlandés: Private Narratives of the Irish Emigration to Argentina 1844-1912\" (Buenos Aires: L.O.L.A. Literature of Latin America, 2006), \"Becoming gauchos ingleses: Diasporic Models in Irish-Argentine Literature\" (Palo Alto: Academica Press, 2009), \"Centre William Rappard: Home of the World Trade Organization, Geneva\" (Geneva: WTO, 2011), with Joëlle Kuntz, also published in French and Spanish. \"Intégration régionale en Afrique de l´Ouest: Dynamiques socio-historiques, Stratégies des Acteurs et Contributions des Chercheurs (Praia: West Africa Institute, 2014), with Abdarahmane Ngaïdé, Kalie Sillah, Bio Goura Soule, and Olumuyiwa Alaba. As editor, he has published \"Symphony of Flavors: Food and Music in Concert\" (Newcastle: Cambridge Scholars Publishing, 2015). Advisory Board member and contributor to \"Ireland and the Americas: Culture, Politics, and History\" (Santa Barbara, CA: ABC-CLIO, 2008). Lecturer and frequent contributor of articles in cultural history, regional cultural integration, and in Irish and Latin American studies. Founding Member of the Society for Irish Latin American Studies, and member of Sociedad Suiza de Estudios Hispánicos and the Société Suisse des Américanistes. Founder and first editor of \"Irish Migration Studies in Latin America\", a journal focusing on relations between Ireland and Latin America. Visiting professor at University of Cape Verde. Research consultant of the West Africa Institute. Poet and a short-story writer, published \"Poemas Nómades\" (1999) and \"Taxonomía Fantástica de los Árboles de Buenos Aires\" (2000). Married to Estelle Varanguien de Villepin, father of five, lives near Geneva, Switzerland.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "72845", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=72845", "title": "Etruria", "text": "Etruria\n\nEtruria (; usually referred to in Greek and Latin source texts as Tyrrhenia ) was a region of Central Italy, located in an area that covered part of what are now Tuscany, Lazio, and Umbria.\n\nThe ancient people of Etruria are labeled Etruscans. Their complex culture was centered on numerous city-states that rose during the Villanovan period in the ninth century BC, and they were very powerful during the Orientalizing Archaic periods. The Etruscans were a dominant culture in Italy by 650 BC, surpassing other ancient Italic peoples such as the Ligures, and their influence may be seen beyond Etruria's confines in the Po River Valley and Latium, as well as in Campania and through their contact with the Greek colonies in Southern Italy (including Sicily). Indeed, at some Etruscan tombs, such as those of the Tumulus di Montefortini at Comeana (see Carmignano) in Tuscany, physical evidence of trade has been found in the form of grave goods—fine faience ware cups are particularly notable examples. Such trade occurred either directly with Egypt or through intermediaries such as Greek or Phoenician sailors.\n\nRome, buffered from Etruria by the Silva Ciminia, the Ciminian Forest, was influenced strongly by the Etruscans, with a series of Etruscan kings ruling at Rome until 509 BC when the last Etruscan king Lucius Tarquinius Superbus was removed from power and the Roman Republic was established. The Etruscans are credited with influencing Rome's architecture and ritual practice; it was under the Etruscan kings that important structures such as the Capitolium, Cloaca Maxima, and Via Sacra were realized.\n\nThe Etruscan civilization was responsible for much of the Greek culture imported into early Republican Rome, including the twelve Olympian gods, the growing of olives and grapes, the Latin alphabet (adapted from the Greek alphabet), and architecture like the arch, sewerage and drainage systems.\n\nIn the augustean organization of Italy, \"Etruria\" was the name of a region (Regio VII), whose borders were the Tiber, the Tyrrhenian Sea, the Apuan Alps and the Apennines, roughly coincident with those of Etruscan Etruria.\n\nThe Grand Duchy of Tuscany (which existed 1569–1801 and 1814–1859) styled itself in Latin as \"Magnus Ducatus Etruriae\" (Grand Duchy of Etruria). The name Etruria was also applied to the Kingdom of Etruria, an ephemeral client state of Napoleon I of France which replaced the Grand Duchy between 1801 and 1807.\n\nA particularly noteworthy work dealing with Etruscan locations is D. H. Lawrence's \"Sketches of Etruscan Places and other Italian essays\".\n\nLatin and Italian names are given between parentheses:\n\nThere was a period between 600 BC and 500 BC, in which 12 Etruscan city-states formed a loose confederation known as the Etruscan League. Etruscan was the official language for meetings. When Etruria was conquered by the Roman Republic, Latin became the official language.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4274985", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4274985", "title": "Fedoskino miniature", "text": "Fedoskino miniature\n\nFedoskino miniature () is a traditional Russian lacquer miniature painting on \"papier-mache\", named after its original center Fedoskino (Федоскино), an old village near Moscow widely known from the late 18th century. The contemporary Fedoskino painting preserves the typical features of Russian folk art. \n\nThe use of oil paint, typically applied in many layers, is a distinctive feature of a Fedoskino miniature, as well as the use of mother-of-pearl, pure gold or silver leaf under segments of the background to create the effect of a shimmering glow or silvery sparkle. Many boxes are painted inside and outside in imitation tortoiseshell, birch bark, mahogany or tartan.\n\nThe heyday of Fedoskino miniature fell on the second half of the 19th century, and the works of that time are known as 'lukutins', named after the merchants Lukutins, who owned the Fedoskino factory at that time. Some of the factory craftsmen had artistic education, and lots of them had come from icon painting studios. \n\nThe popular motifs used in Fedoskino miniature are all sorts of tea-drinking with samovar, troikas (carriage-and-three), and scenes from Russian peasant life. \n\n"}
{"id": "14306450", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14306450", "title": "Françoise Henry", "text": "Françoise Henry\n\nFrançoise Henry (16 June 1902 – 10 February 1982) was a scholar of early Irish art, archaeologist, and art historian. While at University College Dublin (UCD), she founded the Department of History of European Painting in 1965, and was head until she retired in 1974.\n\nHenry was born in Paris on 16 June 1902, and brought up in Limousin. She was the only child of Jeanne Henry (née Clément) and René Henry, deputy chef de cabinet to the president of the French Chamber of Deputies, professor at L'École des Sciences Politiques, and writer. Her father left the family when Henry was young. Henry's grandfather, Charles Clément (1821 - 1887), was an art writer and philosopher, and his influence was felt through Henry's visits to her grandmother near Paris.\n\nHenry attended the Lycée Molière in Paris from 1914 to 1920, and then graduated from both the École du Louvre in 1925 and the Sorbonne. Whilst at the Sorbonne, Henry attended lectures by Salomon Reinach, Robert Rey, and Henri Hubert. She worked as an assistant to Hubert in the Musée des Antiquités Nationales, going on to join the staff in 1927. One of her theses was a full survey of prehistoric burials in the Côte d'Or. During this time one of her teachers, Henri Focillon, became a mentor to Henry.\n\nShe first came to Ireland in 1926 while starting a thesis for the École du Louvre on Irish medieval carving. From this visit, she became inspired to study early Irish monuments, being particularly taken by the high crosses at Ahenny. When she returned to Paris, Focillon encouraged her to pursue her study of Irish carvings. She went on to receive her doctorate on the subject in 1932. She published \"La sculpture irlandaise pendant les douze premiers siècles de l'ère chrétienne\" in 1933, with a dedication to Focillon. The volume was recognised as the primary reference immediately. For the next few years the Federation of University Women scholarships enabled Henry to travel and study. She travelled to Ireland often, but also to Scotland and parts of Scandinavia. She was part of growing number of scholars looking at Celtic studies, and benefited from that revival. Whilst in Dublin she lived in Trinity Hall.\n\nShe worked for UCD from 1932 to 1974, with her first appointment being to the French department in 1932. Her first major work, \"Irish art in the early Christian period\", was published in 1940, and focused on an area of study largely untouched since Margaret Stokes in the 1800s. The book charts Irish art from the prehistoric up to the twelfth century, covering sculpture, manuscripts, and metalwork. In the 1960s, it was expanded and updated to three volumes, published first in French and then English.\n\nFrom 1934, Henry was appointed by to teach the Purser–Griffith scholarship lectures on the history of European painting. She transferred to the department of archaeology from French in 1948, going on to become the director of studies in archaeology and the history of European painting. Amongst the scholars that she collaborated with were Cecil Curle and Geneviève Marsh-Micheli. Through UCD she worked alongside Eoin MacNeill, R. A. Stewart Macalister, Gerard Murphy, Seán P. Ó Ríordáin, and Rúaidhrí de Valera. Amongst her close friends with whom she shared mutual research interests were Máirín Bean Uí Dhálaigh, Mairín Allen, and Frank O'Connor.\n\nDuring World War II, she was involved in the evacuation of objects from French and London museums, acting as the secretary of the commission for the preservation of works of art in occupied Europe. Later in the war she worked in a war factory in England, going on to serve as an ambulance driver in France from 1944. For this work, she received the Legion of Honour in 1947.\n\nFrom 1946, Henry resumed her field work, recording monuments and some excavations at sites such as at the Inishkea Islands and Glendalough. As a result of her work, the department of archaeology held a photographic archive documenting early Irish Christian art as well as comparative material. Her most noted works, and those best known by the wider public, were \"Early Christian Irish art\" (1954), \"Irish high crosses\" (1964), and \"Book of Kells\" (1974). Upon her retirement from UCD in 1974, a special issue of \"Studies\" was dedicated to her. Aside from her archaeological work, Henry was also involved in the contemporary arts. She organised a major retrospective of the work of Mainie Jellett in 1962, as well as acting as an advisor to a number of bodies, sitting on the councils of the friends of national institutions, and on the board of guardians of the National Gallery of Ireland from 1962.\n\nHenry was one of the first four women to become members of the Royal Irish Academy (RIA) in 1949. She received an honorary doctorate from Dublin University in 1963, and from the National University of Ireland. After her retirement, Henry continued to split her time between Ireland and France. She died in Auxerre on 10 February 1982.\n\nHenry's papers are deposited in the RIA, the UCD Archives, and some in private ownership. A bust of Henry was carved in Cashel sandstone by Domhnall Ó Murchadha in 1982. A reading room in UCD's School of Art History and Cultural Policy is named in her honour, and contains a dedicated art history library.\n\nHenry was amongst a group of eminent Irish scholars who were celebrated as part of the RIA's \"Women on Walls\" exhibition.\n\n"}
{"id": "14447060", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14447060", "title": "Georgy Klimov", "text": "Georgy Klimov\n\nGeorgy Klimov (, \"Georgiy Andreyevich Klimov\") (September 23, 1928 – April 29, 1997) was a Russian linguist and a leading specialist of the Caucasian languages. His interest primarily focused on the Kartvelian linguistics but also encompassed the Burushaski language and the Amerind language group. \n\nBorn in Leningrad, Klimov graduated from the Leningrad State University in 1952. From 1954 onward, he worked for the Institute of Linguistics of the Soviet Academy of Sciences, becoming a professor there in 1988. He died in Moscow in 1997, leaving behind over 360 scholarly works and many projects uncompleted. One of them, \"Etymological Dictionary of the Kartvelian Languages\", a result of Klimov’s lifetime research, was published in 1998 and remains the best work in the comparative linguistics of Kartvelian languages.\n"}
{"id": "980188", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=980188", "title": "Humorous Interpretation", "text": "Humorous Interpretation\n\nHumorous Interpretation (often shortened to \"HI\", or \"Humor\") is an event in competitive middle and high school forensics leagues such as the National Christian Forensics and Communications Association and the National Speech and Debate Association. It consists of a piece from any published work, edited to fit within a 10-minute span with a 30-second grace period (it does not have a minimum and cannot be above 10:30). It is judged based upon how the person portrays his or her characters and whether the piece is humorous. Ideally proper portrayal of characters should achieve a comedic effect to the judge. Humorous Interpretation and Dramatic Interpretation pieces are often used for the National Catholic Forensic League category of Dramatic Performance, which has similar rules but allows for a wider variety of pieces.\n\nWhile rules vary by state, a piece must be published, cannot exceed ten minutes, and must be of a humorous nature. Performance must include an introduction that states the title of the selection and the author. The introduction is an original work that should remain very brief. A teaser may precede the introduction. However, there may not be any more than 100 original words throughout the piece, including the introduction. In addition to the introduction being original, competitors may also incorporate verbal transitions, so long as they do not exceed 100 words or change the intent of the author. Other than for transitional and introductory purposes, though, no original words may be added to the piece. Gratuitous vulgarity refers to any unnecessary vulgar actions. Gratuitous vulgarity is not permitted and may result in being marked off. Singing and dancing is allowed in Humorous Interpretation, but it must be motivated by the text and easily justifiable. Props and costumes are not permitted. Humorous Interpretation must also remain a solo performance. No partners are permitted. Finally, the speech that a competitor is using for Humorous Interpretation, he or she may not use in any other event he or she is entered in. \n\nWhen choosing a piece, competitors may use any form of published material- whether it be a dictionary, movie script or a novel. Pieces that tend to be more popular, though, are movie scripts, novels and plays. Picking a piece that can be cut down to ten minutes can be very difficult, but it is important that when choosing a piece, performers keep in mind how they might go about cutting it down. In addition, it is very important that performers pick out pieces that are not commonly done. According to Darren C. Goins, picking a \"fresh\" piece is one of the best ways to ensure a successful season. One very good source students can turn to in order to find good pieces is winning pieces of play writing contests and such.\n\nPieces must be memorized in Humorous Interpretation. No scripts are allowed. The number of characters that can be present in the piece is entirely dependent upon the competitor's level of ability. It may range anywhere from one character to multiple characters. Each different character is distinguished by a different posture and character voice. Throughout the piece, competitors switch back and forth between characters with character pops. Pops are a quick transition between characters where the performer quickly re-adjusts his or her body to the appropriate character. There are different styles and ways of popping in and out of characters. A different style of pops is one that is more of a slide into the other character, it is much less abrupt. Regardless of how one decides to go about alternating between characters, though, the one thing performers must make sure of is that it is very clear they are portraying a different character. This doesn't have to be done with just posture alone, a competitor may also utilize different voices to differentiate between characters. The voices that represent each character should be vastly different and distinct. Because competitors are not allowed to use props or costumes, they must pantomime a prop when necessary. When performing, competitors are expected to dress in business attire and be professional. Humorous Interpretation rounds will often have anywhere between five and seven competitors. The rounds are ranked first to last, the smallest number being the best.\n\nDramatic Interpretation\n\n"}
{"id": "42419095", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42419095", "title": "Institució de les Lletres Catalanes", "text": "Institució de les Lletres Catalanes\n\nInstitució de les Lletres Catalanes (Institute of Catalan Letters) is a Spanish organization based in Barcelona. An entity of the Government of Catalonia, it was founded in 1937 by intellectuals who were loyal to the Republic during the Spanish Civil War. Its immediate predecessor was the Grup Sindical d'Escriptors Catalans (Association of Catalan Writers Group; 1936). The institute was initially set up in four sections:\nSince its re-founding in 1987, the institute's deans have been Jordi Sarsanedas (1988 – 1999), Feliu Formosa (1999 – 2001), Maria Antònia Oliver (2001 – 2004), Josep Maria Benet i Jornet (2004 – 2006), Josep Maria Castellet (2006 – 2010) i Francesc Parcerisas (2010 – fins a l'actualitat) i directors Oriol Pi de Cabanyes (1988 – 1996), Magdalena Oliver (1996 – 1998), Francesc Parcerisas (1998 – 2004), Jaume Subirana (2004 – 2006), Oriol Izquierdo (2007 – 2013) i Laura Borràs Castanyer (2013 – present). In 2012, the institute celebrated its 75th anniversary with a retrospective exhibition at the Palau Moja in Barcelona.\n\n"}
{"id": "3242982", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3242982", "title": "Ján Cikker", "text": "Ján Cikker\n\nJán Cikker (29 July 1911 – 21 December 1989) was a Slovak composer, a leading exponent of modern Slovak classical music. He was awarded the title \"National Artist\" in Slovakia, the Herder Prize (1966) and the IMC-UNESCO International Music Prize (1979).\n\nCikker was born in former Austria-Hungary, today Slovakia, in Banská Bystrica. His first music teachers were his mother, Mária Psotková, and Viliam Figuš-Bystrý. After he graduated from the high school, he studied at the Prague Conservatory from 1930 to 1935, where he attended courses of composition of Jaroslav Křička, of conducting and organ. He then studied at the Master's School of the Prague Conservatory from 1935 to 1936, where he was a student of Vítězslav Novák. Later on, he moved to Vienna, where he studied with Felix Weingartner from 1936-1937.\n\nFrom 1939 to 1949, he taught at the Bratislava Conservatory. At the same time he was a repertory advisor of the opera of the Slovak National Theatre from 1945 to 1948. He was forced to leave this post after the communist takeover of Czechoslovakia in 1948. Finally, he worked as professor for composition at the \"Bratislava Academy of Music and Dramatic Arts\" (VŠMÚ), where he was the teacher of many Slovak composers. He died in Bratislava, where a museum in his name has opened.\n\nHis pronounced style is characterized by a typical richness of contrasting moods and characters (dance, expressive, lyrical pronunciation), and by the emphasis on humane and ethical conduct. His first creative works were prevailingly instrumental, from the 1950s he added opera pieces.\n\n\nOxford Music Online, \"Cikker, Ján\"\n"}
{"id": "2707395", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2707395", "title": "Lancha Plana, California", "text": "Lancha Plana, California\n\nLancha Plana (\"flat boat\" in Spanish; formerly, Sonora Bar) was a small settlement in Amador County, California, formed as a result of a flatboat ferry crossing across the Mokelumne River. It was founded by Mexican settlers in 1848. It lay on the north bank of the Mokelumne River, south-southeast of Ione, at an elevation of 220 feet (67 m). The remnants of the town were submerged as a result of the damming of the river to form the Camanche Reservoir. Lancha Plana Bridge crosses the lake now about where the town once stood.\n\nLancha Plana is registered as a California Historical Landmark. \n\nA post office operated at Lancha Plana from 1859 to 1919, with a closure from 1912 to 1913.\n"}
{"id": "39719742", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39719742", "title": "Law of reentry", "text": "Law of reentry\n\nThe law of reentry is a traditional rule in theatre that a character who is on stage at the end of one scene should not enter the stage at the beginning of the next scene. Writer Bill Bryson describes it as \"almost the only 'rule' in London theatre that was still faithfully followed\" in the time of Shakespeare. This, for instance, led to John of Gaunt in Richard II making an \"abrupt and awkward departure [in the middle of a scene] purely to be able to take part in a vital scene that follows\".\n"}
{"id": "53974", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53974", "title": "Legend", "text": "Legend\n\nLegend is a genre of folklore that consists of a narrative featuring human actions perceived or believed both by teller and listeners to have taken place within human history. Narratives in this genre may demonstrate human values, and possess certain qualities that give the tale verisimilitude. Legend, for its active and passive participants, includes no happenings that are outside the realm of \"possibility,\" but may include miracles. Legends may be transformed over time, in order to keep them fresh, vital, and realistic. Many legends operate within the realm of uncertainty, never being entirely believed by the participants, but also never being resolutely doubted.\n\nThe Brothers Grimm defined legend as folktale historically grounded. A modern folklorist's professional definition of \"legend\" was proposed by Timothy R. Tangherlini in 1990:\nLegend, typically, is a short (mono-) episodic, traditional, highly ecotypified historicized narrative performed in a conversational mode, reflecting on a psychological level a symbolic representation of folk belief and collective experiences and serving as a reaffirmation of commonly held values of the group to whose tradition it belongs.\n\n\"Legend\" is a loanword from Old French that entered English usage circa 1340. The Old French noun \"legende\" derives from the Medieval Latin \"legenda\". In its early English-language usage, the word indicated a narrative of an event. The word \"legendary\" was originally a noun (introduced in the 1510s) meaning a collection or corpus of legends. This word changed to \"legendry\", and \"legendary\" became the adjectival form.\n\nBy 1613, English-speaking Protestants began to use the word when they wished to imply that an event (especially the story of any saint not acknowledged in John Foxe's \"Actes and Monuments\") was fictitious. Thus, \"legend\" gained its modern connotations of \"undocumented\" and \"spurious\", which distinguish it from the meaning of \"chronicle\".\n\nIn 1866, Jacob Grimm described the fairy tale as \"poetic, legend historic.\" Early scholars such as Friedrich Ranke and Will Erich Peuckert followed Grimm's example in focussing solely on the literary narrative, an approach that was enriched particularly after the 1960s, by addressing questions of performance and the anthropological and psychological insights provided in considering legends' social context. Questions of categorising legends, in hopes of compiling a content-based series of categories on the line of the Aarne–Thompson folktale index, provoked a search for a broader new synthesis.\n\nIn an early attempt at defining some basic questions operative in examining folk tales, in 1925 characterised the folk legend as \"a popular narrative with an objectively untrue imaginary content\" a dismissive position that was subsequently largely abandoned.\n\nCompared to the highly structured folktale, legend is comparatively amorphous, Helmut de Boor noted in 1928. The narrative content of legend is in realistic mode, rather than the wry irony of folktale; Wilhelm Heiske remarked on the similarity of motifs in legend and folktale and concluded that, in spite of its realistic mode, legend is not more historical than folktale.\n\nIn \"Einleitung in der Geschichtswissenschaft\" (1928), Ernst Bernheim asserted that a legend is simply a longstanding rumour. Gordon Allport credited the staying-power of some rumours to the persistent cultural state-of-mind that they embody and capsulise; thus \"Urban legends\" are a feature of rumour. When Willian Jansen suggested that legends that disappear quickly were \"short-term legends\" and the persistent ones be termed \"long-term legends\", the distinction between legend and rumour was effectively obliterated, Tangherlini concluded.\n\nIn the narrow Christian sense, \"legenda\" (\"things to be read [on a certain day, in church]\") were hagiographical accounts, often collected in a legendary. Because saints' lives are often included in many miracle stories, \"legend\", in a wider sense, came to refer to any story that is set in a historical context but that contains supernatural, divine or fantastic elements.\n\nHippolyte Delehaye distinguished legend from myth: \"The \"legend\", on the other hand, has, of necessity, some historical or topographical connection. It refers imaginary events to some real personage, or it localizes romantic stories in some definite spot.\"\n\nFrom the moment a legend is retold as fiction, its authentic legendary qualities begin to fade and recede: in \"The Legend of Sleepy Hollow\", Washington Irving transformed a local Hudson River Valley legend into a literary anecdote with \"Gothic\" overtones, which actually tended to diminish its character as genuine legend.\n\nStories that exceed the boundaries of \"realism\" are called \"fables\". For example, the talking animal formula of Aesop identifies his brief stories as fables, not legends. The parable of the Prodigal Son would be a legend if it were told as having actually happened to a specific son of a historical father. If it included a donkey that gave sage advice to the Prodigal Son it would be a fable.\n\nLegend may be transmitted orally, passed on person-to-person, or, in the original sense, through written text. Jacob de Voragine's \"Legenda Aurea\" or \"The Golden Legend\" comprises a series of \"vitae\" or instructive biographical narratives, tied to the liturgical calendar of the Roman Catholic Church. They are presented as lives of the saints, but the profusion of miraculous happenings and above all their uncritical context are characteristics of hagiography. The \"Legenda\" was intended to inspire extemporized homilies and sermons appropriate to the saint of the day.\n\nThe vanishing hitchhiker is the best-known urban legend in America, traceable as far back as 1870, but it is found around the world including in Korea and Russia. In the legend, a young girl in a white dress picked up alongside of the road by a passerby. The unknown girl in white remains silent for the duration of her ride, thanks the driver, and quietly gets out at her destination. When the driver turns to look back, the girl has vanished. In 1942, Beardsley and Hankey collected 79 written accounts of the legend.\n\n"}
{"id": "952703", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=952703", "title": "Like Father, Like Clown", "text": "Like Father, Like Clown\n\n\"Like Father, Like Clown\" is the sixth episode of \"The Simpsons\"<nowiki>'</nowiki> third season. It originally aired on the Fox network in the United States on October 24, 1991. In the episode, after recalling a traumatic memory, Krusty the Clown reveals to the Simpson family that he is of Jewish heritage, and that his father, Rabbi Hyman Krustofski, disowned him for pursuing a career in comedy. Krusty is emotionally upset and Bart and Lisa decide to try to reunite Krusty with his long-estranged father.\n\n\"Like Father, Like Clown\" was written by the duo of Jay Kogen and Wallace Wolodarsky. Krusty's religion had not been part of the original concept of the character, so Kogen and Wolodarsky decided to parody the 1927 film \"The Jazz Singer\" and establish that Krusty is Jewish. The episode was carefully researched and two rabbis, Lavi Meier and Harold M. Schulweis, were credited as \"special technical consultants\". It was directed by Jeffrey Lynch and Brad Bird; as it was Lynch's first credit as a director, Bird was assigned to help him. Comedian Jackie Mason, who had once been an ordained rabbi, provided the voice of Rabbi Krustofski. The rabbi later became an infrequently recurring character voiced by Dan Castellaneta. Mason returned to voice the character in several later episodes.\n\nIn its original broadcast, \"Like Father, Like Clown\" finished 34th in ratings with a Nielsen rating of 12.7. Jackie Mason won a Primetime Emmy Award in 1992 for Outstanding Voice-Over Performance for his performance as Rabbi Krustofski.\n\nAlthough Krusty the Clown agrees to have dinner with the Simpson family as part of his repayment for Bart's help in exonerating him in the episode \"Krusty Gets Busted\", Krusty keeps canceling, much to Bart's disappointment. An upset Bart writes a letter to Krusty saying he is no longer his fan. Krusty's secretary is so moved by the letter that she angrily threatens to quit if Krusty does not keep his promise to Bart, finally persuading him to do so. Upon learning that Krusty is coming to the Simpson house for dinner, Milhouse comes along, to which Bart reluctantly allows. When asked to say grace, Krusty recites a Hebrew blessing. Realizing that Krusty is Jewish, Lisa speaks of his heritage, making Krusty break down in tears. After some convincing from the family to why he's so depressed about it, Krusty tells the family his real name, Herschel Krustofski, and describes his upbringing in the Lower East Side of Springfield.\n\nHis father, Hyman Krustofski, was a rabbi and strongly opposed young Herschel's wish to become a comedian; he wanted the boy to go to \"yeshiva\" instead. Krusty did attend the school, where he said he made the other students laugh by doing funny impressions of his father. As a result, Krusty became a slapstick comedian behind his father's back. One night, Krusty performed at a rabbi's convention and a rabbi squirted seltzer on him, washing off his clown makeup. Rabbi Krustofski, who was in the audience, recognized him, was furious and disowned his son, and now it has been 25 years since they have seen or spoken to each other.\n\nIn the weeks following this admission, Krusty thinks about his father and becomes depressed, breaking down on live television after watching a father-son related Itchy and Scratchy cartoon. Bart and Lisa decide to help reunite father and son, but the rabbi still refuses to accept Krusty's career choice, explaining that Krusty \"turned his back on their traditions, on their faith, and on him\". They decide to try to outsmart the rabbi, and Lisa does research and finds Judaic teachings that urge forgiveness, but Rabbi Krustofski has responses for each of them out of stubbornness. In a last-ditch effort, Bart convinces the rabbi to realize his stubborn ways with a quote from Sammy Davis, Jr., a Jewish entertainer just like Krusty, in which the entertainer makes a passionate speech about the struggles that the Jewish people have overcome. This quote finally convinces Rabbi Krustofski that entertainers have a place in Jewish heritage. A deeply depressed Krusty is glumly doing a live telecast of his show, when Rabbi Krustofski appears. The two joyously hug and reconcile in front of the audience of children, with Rabbi Krustofski accepting a cream pie from Bart and throwing it in his son's face.\n\n\"Like Father, Like Clown\" was written by the duo of Jay Kogen and Wallace Wolodarsky. Krusty's religion had not been part of the original concept of the character, so Kogen and Wolodarsky decided to parody \"The Jazz Singer\" and establish that Krusty is Jewish. They pitched the idea to co-executive producer Sam Simon, who rejected it, but it was approved by James L. Brooks. Krusty's last name, Krustofski, was established in this episode as pitched by Al Jean. The portion of the episode where characters quote the Bible in support or opposition of clowning were carefully researched. Cited passages from the Bible include Exodus 20:12 and Joshua 1:8. The quotations from the Talmud were also researched, and two rabbis, Lavi Meier and Harold M. Schulweis, were credited as \"special technical consultants\". Schulweis was asked to take a look at a draft of the script. While not a fan of the show, he felt \"it was profound\" and added some corrections. He later commented, \"I thought it had a Jewish resonance to it. I was impressed by the underlying moral seriousness.\"\n\nThe episode was co-directed by Jeffrey Lynch and Brad Bird. It was Lynch's first credit as a director, so Bird was assigned to help him out and \"usher [Lynch] into the world of directing things quickly\". Krusty is one of Bird's favorite characters, and he always tries to animate a scene in every Krusty episode.\n\nRabbi Krustofski was voiced by Jackie Mason, who had once been an ordained rabbi, but had resigned to become a comedian. Mason recorded his lines in New York City, and Dan Castellaneta, voice of Krusty, went there to record with him. In the script, Bart and Lisa try to trick Rabbi Krustofski into meeting with Krusty by arranging a lunch date between him and Saul Bellow, the \"Nobel Prize-winning Jewish novelist\". Originally, this was intended to be Isaac Bashevis Singer, but the writers changed it when Singer died. Mason's lines had to be re-recorded in order to complete the change. Rabbi Krustofski became an infrequently recurring character, and his occasional speaking parts were voiced by Castellaneta. Mason later returned to voice the rabbi in \"Today I Am a Clown\" in the fifteenth season, \"Once Upon a Time in Springfield\" in the twenty-first season, and \"Clown in the Dumps\" in the twenty-sixth season, in which the character dies.\n\nThe episode is an homage to the film \"The Jazz Singer\", about a son with a strict religious upbringing who defies his father to become an entertainer. The film is mentioned when Rabbi Krustofski states, \"Oh, if you were a musician or a jazz singer, this I could forgive!\" Lisa tells Homer that there are many Jewish entertainers, including Lauren Bacall, Dinah Shore, William Shatner and Mel Brooks, the latter of which shocks Homer. In Krusty's flashback, he and his father walk down the street in a parody of a scene from \"The Godfather Part II\". In the Simpsons house, Krusty plays \"The Concert for Bangladesh\". In Krusty's studio, there are pictures of him with Alfred Hitchcock and The Beatles. At the end of the episode, Krusty and his father sing \"O Mein Papa\", a 1952 song originally by Eddie Fisher. Bart quotes a passage from Sammy Davis, Jr.'s 1965 autobiography \"Yes, I Can\".\n\nIn its original broadcast, \"Like Father, Like Clown\" finished 34th in ratings for the week of October 21–27, 1991, with a Nielsen rating of 12.7. It was the highest rated program on Fox that week. Mason won a Primetime Emmy Award in 1992 for Outstanding Voice-Over Performance for his performance as Rabbi Krustofski. He was one of six voice actors from \"The Simpsons\" to win the award in its inaugural year. He is one of three \"The Simpsons\" guest stars to win the award; Marcia Wallace won in 1992 for voicing Edna Krabappel, and Kelsey Grammer won for voicing Sideshow Bob in 2006.\n\nThe authors of the book \"I Can't Believe It's a Bigger and Better Updated Unofficial Simpsons Guide\", Warren Martyn and Adrian Wood, called the episode, \"a magnificent show, with Jackie Mason wonderfully over the top as Krusty's long-lost pa, and Lois Pennycandy giving Krusty a good talking to about Bart.\" Alan Sepinwall and Matt Zoller Seitz of \"The Star-Ledger\" listed \"Like Father, Like Clown\" as one of the ten episodes of \"The Simpsons\" that shows the \"comic and emotional scope of the show.\" They wrote, \"Most Krusty the Klown episodes go heavy on celebrity cameos, while playing up the character's misanthropic greed. This one gave him a heart, as Bart and Lisa try to reunite him with his estranged rabbi father (voice of Jackie Mason), who has never forgiven his son for going into show biz.\" DVD Movie Guide's Colin Jacobson wrote that the episode \"lacks a surfeit of guffaws, but it manages to be sweet and heartfelt without becoming sappy. It's more of a charming show than a laughfest, but it does the job.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "18886705", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18886705", "title": "List of postal rates in Mandatory Palestine", "text": "List of postal rates in Mandatory Palestine\n\nThe List of postal rates in the British Mandate of Palestine are the postal rates in effect in Palestine under military occupation British and allied forces and later civil administration of the British Mandate of Palestine between 1917 and 1948. During the Mandate, postal services were provided by British authorities.\n\nAfter occupation by allied forces in 1917, basic postage was free for civilians. Registration fees and parcels had to be franked using British or Indian stamps. Once the EEF stamps printed in Cairo came on sale, mail to overseas destinations had to be paid for from 10 February 1918, and from 16 February 1918 also mail to the then occupied territories and Egypt.\n\nThe structure of postal rates followed broadly British practice and new services, like airmail and express delivery, were added over the years. From 1926 reduced rates applied for mail to Britain and Ireland, and from 1 March 1938 to 4 September 1939, Palestine was part of the \"All Up Empire\" airmail rates system.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "51771605", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51771605", "title": "Maria Weigert Brendel", "text": "Maria Weigert Brendel\n\nMaria Weigert Brendel (1902–1994) was a German expert on classical art. She studied at the University of Heidelberg, before being pulled out of the University by her father, and being forced to flee the country to avoid Nazi persecution. Later in her life, she posthumously published a number of Otto Brendel's works.\n\nBorn to director of the state court Erich Weigert and the daughter of a banker, Maria Weigert was the first girl to attend a normally boys only German Gymnasium. She was childhood friends with Dietrich Bonhoeffer. She went on to study at the University of Heidelberg, studying with Professor Ludwig Curtius. It was there that she met her future husband, Otto. When she was almost finished with her degree, while writing her dissertation on the Ludovisi Throne, her father discovered her relationship with Otto and pulled her out of the university, ending her doctoral career.\n\nMaria Weigert married Otto Brendel in 1929. In 1931, they moved near the University of Erlangen for Otto's new position. Here, their daughter Cornelia was born.\n\n\nIn 1932, the family moved to Rome for Otto's position as First Assistant at the German Archaeological Institute, but in 1936, Otto was dismissed from his post because he was married to Maria, a non-Aryan. Maria moved back to Berlin with Cornelia, living under a false name so nobody suspected her Jewish identity. On September 3, 1939, Maria and Cornelia left Germany and immigrated to St. Louis, Missouri, where Otto was already living. In 1956, they moved to New York Coty, where both Maria and Otto were actively involved in the Archaeology Club. Other members included Dorothy Hill, Homer and Dorothy Thompson, Frances Follin Jones of the Princeton Art Gallery, and Evelyn Harrison.\n\nAfter Otto died in September 1973, Maria began to publish and distribute a number of Otto's unfinished works. She translated \"The Symbolism of the Sphere\" from German into English, and an article on \"Iphigeneia in Tauris in Euripides and Goethe\" from English to German. She arranged for Emeline Richardson to complete his book \"Etruscan Art,\" and later for Francesca Serra Ridgway to write the second edition. She was involved in the posthumous publication of \"Festschrift\" in his honor.\n"}
{"id": "5383034", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5383034", "title": "Medical drama", "text": "Medical drama\n\nA medical drama is a television program or film in which events center upon a hospital, an ambulance staff, or any medical environment and most medical episodes are one hour long and set in a hospital. Most current medical dramatic programming go beyond the events pertaining to the characters' jobs and portray some aspects of their personal lives. A typical medical drama might have a storyline in which two doctors fall in love. Communications theorist Marshall McLuhan, in his on the nature of media, predicted success for this particular genre on TV because the medium \"creates an obsession with bodily welfare\". Currently, the longest running medical drama in the world is the British series \"Casualty\", airing since 1986.\n\n\"City Hospital\", which first aired in 1951, is generally considered to be the first televised medical drama. (The first serialized medical drama was probably the \"Dr. Kildare\" film series (1937-1947), starring a number of actors in the eponymous role, and Lionel Barrymore throughout the series.) \"Medic\", which featured Richard Boone, ran two seasons, from 1954 to 1956. The genre became a staple of prime time television with the enormous popularity of \"Dr. Kildare\" and \"Ben Casey\", both debuting in 1961. The BBC series \"Dr. Finlay's Casebook\" (1962–1971) is an early example of another common variant of the genre in which a medical practice is used as a focus for stories detailing the life of a (usually small) community. The long running Australian series \"A Country Practice\" (1981–1993) is a later example of this subgenre. From 1969 to 1976, the series \"Marcus Welby, M.D.\" and \"Medical Center\" were extremely popular for their both orthodox and unorthodox way of presenting medical cases. In 1972, the long-running series, \"Emergency!\", starring Robert Fuller and Julie London, was the first medical drama ever to combine both a paramedic program with an emergency room hospital, which also focused on real-life rescues. Also in 1972, the first episode of \"M*A*S*H\" aired; the show's tone was generally comedic, but dark—poignant moments emanating from the death caused by war were not uncommon. This trend of comedy with undercurrents of darkness in medical TV shows can also be seen in \"Doogie Howser, M.D.\", \"House M.D.\", \"Grey's Anatomy\", \"Scrubs\", \"Code Black\" and \"Chicago Med\". In 1986, Casualty started airing on BBC One in the United Kingdom. Casualty continues to be aired, making it the longest running TV medical drama. Its sister show Holby City has been airing since 1999.\n\nAccording to Professor George Ikkos, the president of the psychiatry sector of the Royal Society of Medicine, medical dramas have accumulated large audiences because the characters in the shows are often depicted as everyday citizens who have extraordinary careers, which promotes a sense of relatability among viewers.\n\n"}
{"id": "5597530", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5597530", "title": "Michael Sells", "text": "Michael Sells\n\nMichael Anthony Sells (born May 8, 1949) is an American historian and scholar of religion who is the current Professor of Islamic History and Literature at the Divinity School of the University of Chicago.\nMichael Sells studies and teaches in the areas of Qur'anic studies, Sufism, Arabic and Islamic love poetry, mysticism (Greek, Islamic, Christian, and Jewish), and religion and violence.\n\nHe completed a new and expanded edition of his 1999 book \"Approaching the Qur'an: the Early Revelations\" which was the center of the case \"Yacovelli v. Moeser\" about the University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill's summer program in 2002. He also published three volumes on Arabic poetry, \"Desert Tracings: Six Classic Arabian Odes\", \"Stations of Desire\", and \"The Cambridge History of Arabic Literature, Al-Andalus\", which he co-edited and to which he contributed. His books on mysticism include \"Early Islamic Mysticism\", translations and commentaries on influential mystical passages from the Quran, hadith, Arabic poetry, and early Sufi writings, as well as \"Mystical Languages of Unsaying\", an examination of apophatic language, with special attention to Plotinus, John Scotus Eriugena, ibn Arabi, Meister Eckhart, and Marguerite Porete. His work on religion and violence includes \"The Bridge Betrayed: Religion and Genocide in Bosnia\", and \"The New Crusades: Constructing the Muslim Enemy\" which he co-edited and to which he contributed. He teaches courses on the topics of the Qur'an, Islamic love poetry, comparative mystical literature, Arabic Sufi poetry, and ibn Arabi.\n\nMichael Sells argues that religious mythology played a crucial role in Bosnian genocide. He wrote about the religious ideology of Christoslavism: \nSells argues that the Bosnian genocide: \nSells argues that these acts were seen as ethnoreligious purification: \n\n\n"}
{"id": "38813615", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38813615", "title": "Names for soft drinks in the United States", "text": "Names for soft drinks in the United States\n\nNames for soft drinks in the United States vary regionally. \"Soda\" and \"pop\" are the most common terms for soft drinks nationally, although other terms are used, especially \"coke\" (a genericized name for Coca-Cola) in the South. Since individual names tend to dominate regionally, the use of a particular term can be an act of geographic identity. The choice of terminology is most closely associated with geographic origin, rather than other factors such as race, age, or income. The differences in naming have been the subject of scholarly studies. Cambridge linguist Bert Vaux, in particular, has studied the \"pop vs. soda debate\" in conjunction with other regional vocabularies of American English.\n\nAccording to writer piet, \"soda\" derives from sodium, a common mineral in natural springs, and was first used to describe carbonation in 1802. The earliest known usage of \"pop\" is from 1812; in a letter to his wife, poet Robert Southey says the drink is \"called pop because pop goes the cork when it is drawn, & pop you would go off too if you drank too much of it.\" The two words were later combined into \"soda pop\" in 1863. Schloss gives the following years as the first attestations of the various terms for these beverages:\nIn the Southern United States, \"coke\" (or \"cola\") is used as a generic term for any type of soft drink—not just a Coca-Cola product or another cola. This terminology is also used in areas adjacent to the traditional southern states, such as New Mexico and Southern Indiana. Several other locations have been found to use the generic \"coke\", such as Trinity County, California and White Pine County, Nevada, although the small populations of these counties may skew survey results. A Twitter data scientist, however, found that while \"soda\" and \"pop\" dominate in the United States, \"coke\" is a generic soft drink name in other countries, especially in Europe.\n\n\"Pop\" is most commonly associated with the Midwest, in states like Ohio, Minnesota, Michigan, Kansas, Oklahoma, and Iowa. The term is also more common in the Pacific Northwest and Mountain West.\n\n\"Soda\" is most common on the East and West Coasts, as well as Hawaii, St. Louis, Missouri, and Milwaukee, Wisconsin. It is also known as a fizzy .\n\nThe \"soda/pop\" dialect line runs through Western New York State, approximately through the Rochester, New York area. Those west of the line (e.g., in Buffalo) say \"pop\" while those east of the line (e.g. Syracuse) use \"soda.\"\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "22687", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22687", "title": "Oral history", "text": "Oral history\n\nOral history is the collection and study of historical information about individuals, families, important events, or everyday life using audiotapes, videotapes, or transcriptions of planned interviews. These interviews are conducted with people who participated in or observed past events and whose memories and perceptions of these are to be preserved as an aural record for future generations. Oral history strives to obtain information from different perspectives and most of these cannot be found in written sources. \"Oral history\" also refers to information gathered in this manner and to a written work (published or unpublished) based on such data, often preserved in archives and large libraries. Knowledge presented by Oral History (OH) is unique in that it shares the tacit perspective, thoughts, opinions and understanding of the interviewee in its primary form.\n\nThe term is sometimes used in a more general sense to refer to any information about past events that people who experienced them tell anybody else, but professional historians usually consider this to be oral tradition. However, as the Columbia Encyclopedia explains: \nPrimitive societies have long relied on oral tradition to preserve a record of the past in the absence of written histories. In Western society, the use of oral material goes back to the early Greek historians Herodotus and Thucydides, both of whom made extensive use of oral reports from witnesses. The modern concept of oral history was developed in the 1940s by Allan Nevins and his associates at Columbia University. \n\nOral history has become an international movement in historical research. This is partly attributed to the development of information technology, which allowed a method rooted in orality to contribute to research, particularly the use of personal testimonies made in a wide variety of public settings. For instance, oral historians have discovered the endless possibilities of posting data and information on the Internet, making them readily available to scholars, teachers, and average individuals. This reinforced the viability of oral history since the new modes of transmission allowed history to get off archival shelves and reach the larger community.\n\nOral historians in different countries have approached the collection, analysis, and dissemination of oral history in different modes. However, it should also be noted that there are many ways of creating oral histories and carrying out the study of oral history even within individual national contexts.\n\nAccording to the \"Columbia Encyclopedia\":, the accessibility of tape recorders in the 1960s and 1970s led to oral documentation of the era's movements and protests. Following this, oral history has increasingly become a respected record type. Some oral historians now also account for the subjective memories of interviewees due to the research of Italian historian Alessandro Portelli and his associates.\n\nOral histories are also used in many communities to document the experiences of survivors of tragedies. Following the Holocaust, there has emerged a rich tradition of oral history, particularly of Jewish survivors. The United States Holocaust Memorial Museum has an extensive archive of over 70,000 oral history interviews. There are also several organizations dedicated specifically to collecting and preserving oral histories of survivors. Oral history as a discipline has fairly low barriers to entry, so it is an act in which laypeople can readily participate. In his book Doing Oral History, Donald Ritchie wrote that \"oral history has room for both the academic and the layperson. With reasonable training... anyone can conduct a useable oral history.\" This is especially meaningful in cases like the Holocaust, where survivors may be less comfortable telling their story to a journalist than they would be to a historian or family member.\n\nIn the United States, there are several organizations dedicated to doing oral history which are not affiliated with universities or specific locations. StoryCorps is one of the most well-known of these: following the model of the Federal Writers’ Project created as part of the Works Progress Administration, StoryCorps’ mission is to record the stories of Americans from all walks of life. On contrast to the scholarly tradition of oral history, StoryCorps subjects are interviewed by people they know. There are a number of StoryCorps initiatives that have targeted specific populations or problems, following in the tradition of using oral history as a method to amplify voices that might otherwise be marginalized.\n\nThe development of digital databases with their text-search tools is one of the important aspects to the technology-based oral historiography. These made it easier to collect and disseminate oral history since access to millions of documents on national and international levels can be instantaneous.\n\nSince the early 1970s, oral history in Britain has grown from being a method in folklore studies (see for example the work of the School of Scottish Studies in the 1950s) to becoming a key component in community histories. Oral history continues to be an important means by which non-academics can actively participate in the compilation and study of history. However, practitioners across a wide range of academic disciplines have also developed the method into a way of recording, understanding, and archiving narrated memories. Influences have included women's history and labour history.\n\nIn Britain, the Oral History Society has played a key role in facilitating and developing the use of oral history.\n\nA more complete account of the history of oral history in Britain and Northern Ireland can be found at \"Making Oral History\" on the Institute of Historical Research's website.\n\nThe Bureau of Military History conducted over 1700 interviews with veterans of the First World War and related episodes in Ireland. The documentation was released for research in 2003.\n\nDuring 1998 and 1999, 40 BBC local radio stations recorded personal oral histories from a broad cross-section of the population for \"The Century Speaks\" series. The result was 640 half-hour radio documentaries, broadcast in the final weeks of the millennium, and one of the largest single oral history collections in Europe, the Millennium Memory Bank (MMB). The interview based recordings are held by the British Library Sound Archive in the oral history collection.\n\nIn one of the largest memory project anywhere, The BBC in 2003-6 invited its audiences to send in recollections of the homefront in the Second World War. It put 47,000 of the recollections online, along with 15,000 photographs.\n\nAlessandro Portelli is an Italian oral historian. He is known for his work which compared workers' experiences in Harlan County, Kentucky and Terni, Italy. Other oral historians have drawn on Portelli's analysis of memory, identity, and the construction of history.\n\n, since the government-run historiography in modern Belarus almost fully excludes repression during the epoch when Belarus was part of the Soviet Union, only private initiatives cover these aspects. Citizens' groups in Belarus use the methods of oral history and record narrative interviews on video: the Virtual Museum of Soviet Repression in Belarus presents a full Virtual museum with intense use of oral history. The Belarusian Oral History Archive project also provides material based on oral history recordings.\n\nCzech oral history began to develop beginning in the 1980s with a focus on social movements and political activism. The practice of oral history and any attempts to document stories prior to this is fairly unknown. [citation needed] The practice of oral history began to take shape in the 1990s. In 2000, The Oral History Center (COH) at the Institute of Contemporary History, Academy of Sciences, Czech Republic (AV ČR) was established with the aim of \"systematically support the development of oral history methodology and its application in historical research.\" \n\nIn 2001, Post Bellum, a nonprofit organization, was established to \"documents the memories of witnesses of the important historical phenomenons of the 20th century\" within the Czech Republic and surrounding European countries. Post Bellum works in partnership with Czech Radio and Institute for the Study of Totalitarian Regimes. Their oral history project \"Memory of Nation\" was created in 2008 and interviews are archived online for user access. As of January 2015, the project has more than 2100 published witness accounts in several languages, with more than 24,000 pictures.\n\nOther projects, including articles and books have been funded by the Czech Science Foundation (AV ČR) including:\nThese publications aim to demonstrate that oral history contributes to the understanding of human lives and history itself, such as the motives behind the dissidents' activities, the formation of opposition groups, communication between dissidents and state representatives and the emergence of ex-communist elites and their decision-making processes.\n\nOral history centers in the Czech Republic emphasize educational activities (seminars, lectures, conferences), archiving and maintaining interview collections, and providing consultations to those interested in the method.\n\nBecause of repression during the Franco dictatorship (1939–75), the development of oral history in Spain was quite limited until the 1970s. It became well-developed in the early 1980s, and often had a focus on the Civil War years (1936–39), especially regarding the losers whose stories had been suppressed. The field was based at the University of Barcelona. Professor Mercedes Vilanova was a leading exponent, and combined it with her interest in quantification and social history. The Barcelona group sought to integrate oral sources with traditional written sources to create mainstream, not ghettoized, historical interpretations. They sought to give a public voice to neglected groups, such as women, illiterates, political leftists, and ethnic minorities.\n\nOral history began with a focus on national leaders in the United States, but has expanded to include groups representing the entire population. In Britain, the influence of 'history from below' and interviewing people who had been 'hidden from history' was more influential. However, in both countries elite oral history has emerged as an important strand. Scientists, for example, have been covered in numerous oral history projects. Doel (2003) discusses the use of oral interviews by scholars as primary sources, He lists major oral history projects in the history of science begun after 1950. Oral histories, he concludes, can augment the biographies of scientists and help spotlight how their social origins influenced their research. Doel acknowledges the common concerns historians have regarding the validity of oral history accounts. He identifies studies that used oral histories successfully to provide critical and unique insight into otherwise obscure subjects, such as the role scientists played in shaping US policy after World War II. Interviews furthermore can provide road maps for researching archives, and can even serve as a fail-safe resource when written documents have been lost or destroyed. Roger D. Launius (2003) shows the huge size and complexity of the National Aeronautics and Space Administration (NASA) oral history program since 1959. NASA systematically documented its operations through oral histories. They can help to explore broader issues regarding the evolution of a major federal agency. The collection consists primarily of oral histories conducted by scholars working on books about the agency. Since 1996, however, the collection has also included oral histories of senior NASA administrators and officials, astronauts, and project managers, part of a broader project to document the lives of key agency individuals. Launius emphasizes efforts to include such less-well-known groups within the agency as the Astrobiology Program, and to collect the oral histories of women in NASA.\n\nContemporary oral history involves recording or transcribing eyewitness accounts of historical events. Some anthropologists started collecting recordings (at first especially of Native American folklore) on phonograph cylinders in the late 19th century. In the 1930s, the Federal Writers' Project—part of the Works Progress Administration (WPA)—sent out interviewers to collect accounts from various groups, including surviving witnesses of the Civil War, slavery, and other major historical events. The Library of Congress also began recording traditional American music and folklore onto acetate discs. With the development of audio tape recordings after World War II, the task of oral historians became easier.\n\nIn 1946, David P. Boder, a professor of psychology at the Illinois Institute of Technology in Chicago, traveled to Europe to record long interviews with \"displaced persons\"—most of them Holocaust survivors. Using the first device capable of capturing hours of audio—the wire recorder—Boder came back with the first recorded Holocaust testimonials and in all likelihood the first recorded oral histories of significant length.\n\nMany state and local historical societies have oral history programs. Sinclair Kopp (2002) report on the Oregon Historical Society's program. It began in 1976 with the hiring of Charles Digregorio, who had studied at Columbia with Nevins. Thousands of sound recordings, reel-to-reel tapes, transcriptions, and radio broadcasts have made it one of the largest collections of oral history on the Pacific Coast. In addition to political figures and prominent businessmen, the Oregon Historical Society has done interviews with minorities, women, farmers, and other ordinary citizens, who have contributed extraordinary stories reflecting the state's cultural and social heritage. Hill (2004) encourages oral history projects in high school courses. She demonstrates a lesson plan that encourages the study of local community history through interviews. By studying grassroots activism and the lived experiences of its participants, her high school students came to appreciate how African Americans worked to end Jim Crow laws in the 1950s.\n\nNaison (2005) describes the Bronx African American History Project (BAAHP), an oral community history project developed by the Bronx County Historical Society. Its goal was to document the histories of black working- and middle-class residents of the South Bronx neighborhood of Morrisania in New York City since the 1940s.\n\nThe Middle East often requires oral history methods of research, mainly because of the relative lack in written and archival history and its emphasis on oral records and traditions. Furthermore, because of its population transfers, refugees and émigrés become suitable objects for oral history research.\n\nKatharina Lange studied the tribal histories of Syria. The oral histories in this area could not be transposed into tangible, written form due to their positionalities, which Lange describes as “taking sides.” The positionality of oral history could lead to conflict and tension. The tribal histories are typically narrated by men. While histories are also told by women, they are not accepted locally as “real history.” Oral histories often detail the lives and feats of ancestors.\n\nGenealogy is a prominent subject in the area. According to Lange, the oral historians often tell their own personalized genealogies to demonstrate their credibility, both in their social standing and their expertise in the field.\n\nFrom 2003 to 2004, Professors Marianne Kamp and Russell Zanca researched agricultural collectivization in Uzbekistan; one part of their project involved using oral history methodology. The goal of the project was to learn more about life in the 1920s and 1930s to study the impact of the Soviet Union’s conquest. 20 interviews each were conducted in the Fergana valley, Tashkent, Bukhara, Khorezm, and Kashkadarya regions. These interviews uncovered untold stories of famine and death. The oral histories filled in a gap of information missing from the Central State Archive of Uzbekistan.\n\nThe rise of oral history is a new trend in historical studies in China that began in the late twentieth century. Some oral historians, stress the collection of eyewitness accounts of the words and deeds of important historical figures and what really happened during those important historical events, which is similar to common practice in the west, while the others focus more on important people and event, asking important figures to describe the decision making and details of important historical events. In December 2004, the Chinese Association of Oral History Studies was established. The establishment of this institution is thought to signal that the field of oral history studies in China has finally moved into a new phase of organized development.\n\nTe-Kong Tong (1920-2009) was a prominent Chinese American historian and recognized as the \"pioneer of oral history in contemporary China (中国近代口述史学的开创者)\". His view on oral history of historical characters is that historians should identify the changes of the people, and posit their evolution in parallel with that of history.His work include: \n\nWhile oral tradition is an integral part of ancient Southeast Asian history, oral history is a relatively recent development. Since the 1960s, oral history has been accorded increasing attention both on institutional as well as individual levels, representing “history from above” and “history from below”.\n\nIn Oral History and Public Memories, Blackburn writes about oral history as a tool that was used “by political elites and state-run institutions to contribute to the goal of national building” in postcolonial Southeast Asian countries. Blackburn draws most of his examples of oral history as a vehicle for “history from above” from Malaysia and Singapore.\n\nIn terms of “history from below”, various oral history initiatives are being undertaken in Cambodia in an effort to record lived experiences from the rule of the Khmer Rouge regime while survivors are still living. These initiative take advantage of crowdsourced history to uncover the silences imposed on the oppressed.\n\nTwo prominent and ongoing oral history projects out of South Asia stem from time periods of ethnic violence that were decades apart: 1947 and 1984.\n\nThe 1947 Partition Archive was founded in 2010 by Guneeta Singe Bhalla, a physicist in Berkeley, California, who began conducting and recording interviews \"to collect and preserve the stories of those who lived through this tumultuous time, to make sure this great human tragedy isn't forgotten.\" \n\nThe Sikh Diaspora Project was founded in 2014 by Brajesh Samarth, senior lecturer in Hindi-Urdu at Emory University in Atlanta, when he was a lecturer at Stanford University in California. The project focuses on interviews with members of the Sikh diaspora in the U.S. and Canada, including the many who migrated after the 1984 massacre of Sikhs in India.\n\nIn 1948, Allan Nevins, a Columbia University historian, established the Columbia Oral History Research Office, now known as the Columbia Center for Oral History, with a mission of recording, transcribing, and preserving oral history interviews. The Regional Oral History Office was founded in 1954 as a division of the University of California, Berkeley's Bancroft Library. In 1967, American oral historians founded the Oral History Association, and British oral historians founded the Oral History Society in 1969. In 1981, Mansel G. Blackford, a business historian at Ohio State University, argued that oral history was a useful tool to write the history of corporate mergers. More recently, Harvard Business School launched the Creating Emerging Markets project, which \"explores the evolution of business leadership in Africa, Asia, and Latin America throughout recent decades\" through oral history. \"At its core are interviews, many on video, by the School’s faculty with leaders or former leaders of firms and NGOs who have had a major impact on their societies and enterprises across three continents.\" There are now numerous national organizations and an International Oral History Association, which hold workshops and conferences and publish newsletters and journals devoted to oral history theory and practices. Specialized collections of oral history sometimes have archives of widespread global interest; an example is the Lewis Walpole Library in Farmington, Connecticut, a department of the University Library of Yale.\n\nHistorians, folklorists, anthropologists, human geographers, sociologists, journalists, linguists, and many others employ some form of interviewing in their research. Although multi-disciplinary, oral historians have promoted common ethics and standards of practice, most importantly the attaining of the \"informed consent\" of those being interviewed. Usually this is achieved through a deed of gift, which also establishes copyright ownership that is critical for publication and archival preservation.\n\nOral historians generally prefer to ask open-ended questions and avoid leading questions that encourage people to say what they think the interviewer wants them to say. Some interviews are \"life reviews,\" conducted with people at the end of their careers. Other interviews focus on a specific period or a specific event in people's lives, such as in the case of war veterans or survivors of a hurricane.\n\nFeldstein (2004) considers oral history to be akin to journalism, Both are committed to uncovering truths and compiling narratives about people, places, and events. Felstein says each could benefit from adopting techniques from the other. Journalism could benefit by emulating the exhaustive and nuanced research methodologies used by oral historians. The practice of oral historians could be enhanced by utilizing the more sophisticated interviewing techniques employed by journalists, in particular, the use of adversarial encounters as a tactic for obtaining information from a respondent.\n\nThe first oral history archives focused on interviews with prominent politicians, diplomats, military officers, and business leaders. By the 1960s and '70s, influenced by the rise of new social history, interviewing began to be employed more often when historians investigated history from below. Whatever the field or focus of a project, oral historians attempt to record the memories of many different people when researching a given event. Interviewing a single person provides a single perspective. Individuals may misremember events or distort their account for personal reasons. By interviewing widely, oral historians seek points of agreement among many different sources, and also record the complexity of the issues. The nature of memory—both individual and community—is as much a part of the practice of oral history as are the stories collected.\n\nArchaeologists sometimes conduct oral history interviews to learn more about unknown artifacts. Oral interviews can provide narratives, social meaning, and contexts for objects. When describing the use of oral histories in archaeological work, Paul Mullins emphasizes the importance of using these interviews to replace “it-narratives.” It-narratives are the voices from objects themselves rather than people; according to Mullins, these lead to narratives that are often “sober, pessimistic, or even dystopian.”\n\nOral history interviews were used to provide context and social meaning in the Overstone excavation project in Northumberland. Overstone consists of a row of four cottages. The excavation team, consisting of Jane Webster, Louise Tolson, Richard Carlton, and volunteers, found the discovered artifacts difficult to identify. The team first took the artifacts to an archaeology group, but the only person with knowledge about a found fragment recognized the fragment from a type of pot her mother had. This inspired the team to conduct group interviews volunteers who grew up in households using such objects. The team took their reference collection of artifacts to the interviews in order to trigger the memories of volunteers, revealing a “shared cultural identity.”\n\nIn 1997 the Supreme Court of Canada, in the \"Delgamuukw v. British Columbia\" trial, ruled that oral histories were just as important as written testimony. Of oral histories, it said \"that they are tangential to the ultimate purpose of the fact-finding process at trial – the determination of the historical truth.\"\n\nWriters who use oral history have often discussed its relationship to historical truth. Gilda O'Neill writes in \"Lost Voices\", an oral history of East End hop-pickers: \"I began to worry. Were the women's, and my, memories true or were they just stories? I realised that I had no 'innocent' sources of evidence - facts. I had, instead, the stories and their tellers' reasons for remembering in their own particular ways.' Duncan Barrett, one of the co-authors of \"The Sugar Girls\" describes some of the perils of relying on oral history accounts: \"On two occasions, it became clear that a subject was trying to mislead us about what happened – telling a self-deprecating story in one interview, and then presenting a different, and more flattering, version of events when we tried to follow it up. ... often our interviewees were keen to persuade us of a certain interpretation of the past, supporting broad, sweeping comments about historical change with specific stories from their lives.\" Alessandro Portelli argues that oral history is valuable nevertheless: \"it tells us less about events as such than about their meaning [...] the unique and precious element which oral sources force upon the historian ... is the speaker's subjectivity.\"\n\nRegarding the accuracy of oral history, Jean-Loup Gassend concludes in the book \"Autopsy of a Battle\" \"I found that each witness account can be broken down into two parts: 1) descriptions of events that the witness participated in directly, and 2) descriptions of events that the witness did not actually participate in, but that he heard about from other sources. The distinction between these two parts of a witness account is of the highest importance. I noted that concerning events that the witnesses participated in, the information provided was surprisingly reliable, as was confirmed by comparison with other sources. The imprecision or mistakes usually concerned numbers, ranks, and dates, the first two tending to become inflated with time. Concerning events that the witness had not participated in personally, the information was only as reliable as whatever the source of information had been (various rumors); that is to say, it was often very unreliable and I usually discarded such information.\"\n\nAnother noteworthy case is the Mau Mau uprising in Kenya against the British colonizers. Central to the case was Historian Caroline Elkins' study on UK's brutal suppression of the uprising. Elkin's work on this matter is largely based on oral testimonies of survivors and witnesses, which causes controversy in academia: \"Some praised Elkins for breaking the 'code of silence' that had squelched discussion of British imperial violence. Others branded her a self-aggrandising crusader whose overstated findings had relied on sloppy methods and dubious oral testimonies.\" The British court eventually ruled in the Kenyan claimants' favor, which also serves as a response to Elkin's critics as Justice McCombe's 2011 decision stressed the \"substantial documentation supporting accusations of systematic abuses\". After the ruling, newly discovered files containing relevant records of former colonies from the Hanslope disclosure corroborated Elkin's finding.\n\nIn Guatemalan literature, \"I, Rigoberta Menchú\" (1983), brings oral history into the written form through the \"testimonio\" genre. \"I, Rigoberta Menchú\" is compiled by Venezuelan anthropologist Burgos-Debray, based on a series of interviews she conducted with Menchú. The Menchú-controversy arose when historian David Stoll took issue with Menchú’s claim that “this is a story of all poor Guatemalans”. In \"Rigoberta Menchú and the Story of All Poor Guatemalans\" (1999), Stoll argues that the details in Menchú’s \"testimonio\" are inconsistent with his own fieldwork and interviews he conducted with other Mayas. According to Guatemalan novelist and critic Arturo Arias, this controversy highlights a tension in oral history. On one hand, it presents an opportunity to convert the subaltern subject into a “speaking subject”. On the other hand, it challenges the historical profession in certifying the “factuality of her mediated discourse” as “subaltern subjects are forced to [translate across epistemological and linguistic frameworks and] use the discourse of the colonizer to express their subjectivity”.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "40551280", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40551280", "title": "Perfect Order", "text": "Perfect Order\n\nPerfect Order: Recognizing Complexity in Bali, by anthropologist J. Stephen Lansing, is an in depth description of Balinese culture, past and present, through the lens anthropological research. \n\n\"Perfect Order: Recognizing Complexity in Bali\". J. Stephen Lansing. Series: Princeton Studies in Complexity. September 2012, 248 pages. Princeton University Press. 978-1-4008-4586-6.\n"}
{"id": "517372", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=517372", "title": "Pericope", "text": "Pericope\n\nA pericope (; Greek , \"a cutting-out\") in rhetoric is a set of verses that forms one coherent unit or thought, suitable for public reading from a text, now usually of sacred scripture. Its importance is mainly felt in, but not limited to, narrative portions of Sacred Scripture (as well as poetic sections).\n\nManuscripts—often illuminated—called pericopes, are normally evangeliaries, that is, abbreviated Gospel Books only containing the sections of the Gospels required for the Masses of the liturgical year. Notable examples, both Ottonian, are the Pericopes of Henry II and the Salzburg Pericopes.\n\nLectionaries are normally made up of pericopes containing the Epistle and Gospel readings for the liturgical year. A pericope consisting of passages from different parts of a single book, or from different books of the Bible, and linked together into a single reading is called a \"concatenation\" or \"composite reading\".\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "6030834", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6030834", "title": "Protection of Military Remains Act 1986", "text": "Protection of Military Remains Act 1986\n\nThe Protection of Military Remains Act 1986 (1986 c. 35) is an Act of Parliament in the United Kingdom which provides protection for the wreckage of military aircraft and designated military vessels. The Act provides for two types of protection: \"protected places\" and \"controlled sites\". Military aircraft are automatically protected but vessels have to be specifically designated. The primary reason for designation is to protect as a 'war grave' the last resting place of UK servicemen (or other nationals); however, the Act does not require the loss of the vessel to have occurred during war.\n\nThere have been six statutory instruments designating wrecks under the Act, in 2002(amended 2003), 2006, 2008, 2009, 2012 and 2017. Twelve wrecks are designated as controlled sites, on which diving is banned. These twelve vessels (including one German submarine), all lost on military service, provide a small representative sample of all such vessels. All other vessels that meet the criteria of the act are subject to a rolling programme of assessment and those that meet the criteria will be designated as protected places. The order that is currently in force, since March 2017, designates 79 wrecks as protected places. This means that diving is allowed but divers must follow the rule of \"look, don't touch\".\n\nThe Act provides for two types of protection: \"protected places\" and \"controlled sites\". The primary reason for designation is to protect the last resting place of UK servicemen (or other nationals). While this is often referred to as protection as a war grave, the protected wrecks are not graves in the sense of falling under the control of the Commonwealth War Graves Commission, nor are they required to have been lost during wartime.\n\nThe wreckage of all military aircraft (UK or other nations) that crashed in the United Kingdom, in United Kingdom territorial waters or in United Kingdom controlled waters are automatically protected irrespective of whether there was loss of life or whether the wrecking occurred during peacetime or in a combat. The wreckage of United Kingdom military aircraft are also protected under the act elsewhere in the world.\n\nWrecks are designated by name and can be designated as protected places even if the location of the site is not known. Thus, the wreckage of a UK military aircraft is automatically a protected place even if the physical remains have not been previously discovered or identified. Shipwrecks need to be specifically designated, and designation as a protected place applies only to vessels that sank after 4 August 1914 (the date of the United Kingdom's entry into the First World War). The Act makes it an offence to interfere with a protected place, to disturb the site or to remove anything from the site. Divers may visit the site but the rule is \"look, don't touch and don't penetrate\". The law concerning protected places applies anywhere in the world, but in practice, outside the UK, the sanctions can only be enforced against UK citizens, UK flagged ships, or vessels landing in the UK, unless backed by local legislation. The first and only licence granted in respect of a vessel designated a \"protected place\" was granted to Mike Williams of the Nautical Archaeology Society, for a project to commemorate the 75th anniversary of the loss of the M2 submarine including the placing of a white ensign underwater.\n\n\"Controlled sites\" must be specifically designated by location, where the site contains the remains of an aircraft or a vessel that crashed, sank or was stranded within the last two hundred years. The Act makes it illegal to conduct any operations (including any diving or excavation) within the controlled site that might disturb the remains unless licensed to do so by the Ministry of Defence. Licences have been granted for excavation of aircraft, provided that it is not thought that there are human remains present or unexploded ordnance. In the case of sunken vessels, any activities necessary, such as the recovery of extant human remains and the sealing of openings into wrecks, is generally carried out by Ministry of Defence diving teams. Controlled sites at sea are marked on admiralty charts and their physical location is marked by means of a buoy (sea mark).\n\nDuring the 1970s there was a rapid growth in excavation of the crash sites of military aircraft. These were sometimes carried out by interested amateur souvenir hunters, and sometimes by more serious prospectors of valuable military artefacts. The rights and wrongs of this activity was confused by conflicting statements from the Ministry of Defence, who, in 1973 stated that they had abandoned all claim to crashed planes and that any of official interest had been recovered. Later on they reversed this position, claiming Crown title of both RAF and German wrecks and stating that any excavation required official permission, issuing guidelines and threatening that excavation without such permission was illegal interference with Crown Property. Excavations continued however, and several incidents involving the discovery of human remains and live ordnance (along with concerns about divers and shipwrecks) led to the passing of the Protection of Military Remains Act in 1986.\n\nSince the passing of the Act, investigators have been able to obtain licences to excavate subject to a number of conditions. The applicant must have thoroughly researched the crash and be able to identify the aircraft and the fate of the crew. This research becomes the property of the Ministry of Defence. The landowner of the site of the crash must have given permission. Special conditions may be imposed by local councils or heritage agencies. Following excavation all material recovered must be identified to the Ministry of Defence. Personal property of the aircrew is likely to be returned to next of kin, and military artefacts of historical interest are likely to be placed in the care of the Royal Air Force Museum, but the licensee may apply for ownership of other material. Licences cannot be issued for sites where there is likely to be unexploded ordnance, and Ministry of Defence policy is not to issue licences where human remains are likely to be found. The Ministry of Defence reserves the right to witness all excavations.\n\nA large number of aircraft were lost in the sea off the South and East Coasts of England during the Second World War. These areas are commercially important for marine aggregates. Since the aircraft are protected under this Act, the discovery of aircraft remains during aggregate dredging means that dredging must stop and an exclusion zone around the position of the wreck established. The disturbance of wrecks by dredging is also of concern for potential disturbance of human remains and because of damage to an important historical resource. A project undertaken in 2007–2008 by Wessex Archaeology funded under the Aggregates Levy Sustainability Fund managed by English Heritage, looked at the potential of the historical resource of such wrecks and also for issuing guidance to the aggregates industry to manage the impact of finding remains.\n\nAs a result of an extensive consultation carried out in 2000–2001, the Ministry of Defence announced that it would carry out a rolling programme of assessment of all British military wrecks known to have been lost on military service. Designation as a \"controlled site\" is only applicable in waters controlled by the United Kingdom. Wrecks considered dangerous will be designated as \"controlled sites\". Wrecks that met a set of criteria would be designated. Under the act, wrecks to be designated as \"controlled sites\" must have sunk within the last two hundred years. Wrecks to be designated as \"protected places\" must have been lost after 4 August 1914. The criteria for designation announced by the Ministry of Defence include: whether the wreck represents the last resting place of servicemen; whether the wreck has suffered sustained disturbance and looting, and whether designation is likely to stop such disturbance; whether diving on the wreck attracts public criticism; whether the wreck is of historical significance. In addition it was announced that if a wreck designated as a \"protected place\" suffers sustained disturbance it will be designated as a \"controlled site\".\n\nThe Act was passed in 1986, partly in response to concerns over excavation of military aircraft, partly over public disquiet about the fate of sunken military ships and also because in the aftermath of the Falklands War, public opinion supported the idea that a maritime war grave should be sacrosanct. The ships of concern included , where it is alleged that personal possessions of casualties had been looted by divers and where the British Government gave rights for the salvage of which had occurred without respecting the human remains that it contained. However, although the Act gave immediate protection to wrecked aircraft, the wrecks of ships needed to be individually designated to be protected. \n\nBy the year 2000, there was widespread concern amongst survivor associations (such as those of Force Z), and amongst the majority of divers, about the behaviour of a minority of scuba divers who were disturbing wrecks which most thought should be treated with respect. In 2000, the diving associations, BSAC, PADI and SAA, with the support of the Maritime and Coastguard Agency, Ministry of Defence, Nautical Archaeology Society, and Joint Nautical Archaeology Policy Committee, launched a code of conduct for divers entitled \"Respect our Wrecks\", with the central message of \"look, don't touch\". It was not until 2002 that the first designations came into force. The announcement stated that there would be sixteen controlled sites (in waters under UK control), and five designated protected places (five UK wrecks in international waters and one German U-boat in UK waters), with four of the Falkland wrecks HMS \"Ardent\", HMS \"Antelope\", HMS \"Coventry\" and HMS \"Sheffield\" listed as controlled sites. The order only covered eleven controlled sites, which did not include the Falkland wrecks. HMS \"Prince of Wales\" and HMS \"Repulse\" (the ships of Force Z) as well as HMS Hampshire were included in the designations. However, HMS \"Ardent\" and HMS \"Antelope\" were already protected (as prohibited sites because they were considered dangerous) by an order passed in 1983 under the Falkland Islands Protection of Wrecks Ordinance 1977. HMS \"Coventry\" and HMS \"Sheffield\" had to wait until 2006 to be protected.\n\nThe coordinates given for the position of had to be corrected in a subsequent order in 2003.\n\nOn 31 May 2006, the 90th anniversary of the Battle of Jutland, it was announced that the remains of the fourteen UK ships lost in that battle were being designated as protected places. The 'second tranche' came into force on 1 November 2006. This revoked the first tranche, but re-designated the wrecks and added a further 29 protected places and 1 controlled site (the ). HMS \"Sheffield\" was one of the protected places added. At around the same time, the Falkland Islands issued an order under the Falkland Islands Protection of Wrecks Ordnance 1977 designating HMS \"Coventry\" as a restricted area.\n\nThe SS \"Storaa\" was a merchant vessel sunk by a German torpedo on 3 November 1943 while she was part of a military convoy. Those who died included Royal Navy personnel, as well as merchant seamen.\n\nRosemary Fogg and Valerie Ledgard (the claimants), the daughters of one of the men who died, Petty Officer James Varndell RN, requested that the Ministry of Defence designate the wreck. When the Ministry of Defence refused on the grounds that this was a merchant ship and therefore not eligible for designation, the claimants launched a judicial appeal, supported by Peter Marsden (a local historian and maritime archaeologist) and the Merchant Navy Association. The High Court judge, Mr Justice Newmann, decided in favour of the claimants on 13 December 2005. The Ministry of Defence appealed, but on 5 October 2006, the Appeal Court upheld the High Court decision. The court ruled that the act could apply to merchant vessels and that the Secretary of State for Defence was therefore required to reconsider whether or not the \"Storaa\" should be designated under the act. Note that the judgement did not guarantee that the wreck would be designated, only that it was eligible for consideration. However, the wreck was subsequently designated in 2008.\n\nThe third tranche came into force on 1 May 2008, revoking the 2006 order, but re-designating the wrecks and adding 10 more vessels designated as protected places. These included the first merchant ships to be protected, SS \"Storaa\" and \"Atlantic Conveyor\", which had been requisitioned to serve as a transport ship in the Falklands War.\n\n"}
{"id": "51337334", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51337334", "title": "Public opinion on gun control in the United States", "text": "Public opinion on gun control in the United States\n\nPublic opinion on gun control in the United States has been tracked by numerous public opinion organizations and newspapers for more than 20 years. There have also been major gun policies that affected American opinion in the 1990s. Throughout these polling years there are different gun control proposals that show promise for bipartisan action. Over the years listed there have been major tragedies that have affected public opinion. Most of the tragedies are school shootings. There have also been a growth in states around the United States taking more drastic measures on gun control.As of late February and early March 2018, a majority of Americans support stricter gun laws, including wide support for universal background check and mandatory waiting periods for gun purchases and including support for banning assault weapons, adding felons and mental illness patients to background check systems, and prohibiting sales of guns to persons under 21 years old. \n\nIn the 1990s, public support for gun control led then-president Bill Clinton to sign into law the 1994 Federal Assault Weapons Ban, which remained in force for ten years thereafter before expiring. Another measure by the Clinton Administration was the The Brady Bill. This bill was enacted on November 30th, 1993 and the main purpose was to create a waiting period for handgun purchases.The bill enacted makes a person subject to a background check when they are trying to purchase a firearm from a federal dealer, manufactuer, and also an importer.Background checks are run through the FBI and go through the National Instant Criminal Background Check System(NICS).Other features of the Brady Bill are also prohibiting transporting firearms if a person falls under certain criteria made under the bill and prohibiting firearm possession if a person has a felonious charge. In 1995 poll found that 58% of Americans were worried the government would not do enough to regulate guns, while only 35% of Americans reported worrying the government would regulate them too much.\n\nA Pew Research Center poll conducted shortly after the 2012 Aurora shooting found that 47% of Americans thought controlling gun ownership was more important than protecting the rights of Americans to own guns, while 46% thought the opposite.\n\nSix days after the Sandy Hook elementary school shooting in 2012, another Pew Research Center poll found that 49% of Americans believed that controlling gun ownership was more important than protecting gun rights, while 42% of Americans believed the opposite. This trend of sticker gun control policy could be seen by a Galluppoll that was taken in December 2012. With the question being \"In general, do you feel that the laws covering the sale of firearms should be made more strict, less strict or kept as they are now?\" there was a result of (58%) of respondents believing in stricter laws, a (6%) view of less strict, and lastly (34%) believing to keep laws the same. This marked the first time more Americans supported gun control more than gun rights since President Barack Obama took office in 2009. \nA poll conducted by CBS News and New York Times in October 2015 found that 92% of Americans (and 87% of Republicans) supported universal background checks for all gun sales. \n\nPew Research Center poll in August 2015 can be looked at as well for asking surveyors based on partisan lines about background checks for gun shows and private sales. Polling from the research center show that Republicans are (79%) and Democrats (88%) want background checks for gun show transactions and private sales.This bipartisan view also is expanded upon for barring mentally ill stricken people from obtaining a firearm with Democrat being (81%) and Republicans being (79%) in favor of this gun control proposal.\n\nWhile there is a more concise statistical agreement upon back ground checks for all gun sales there is a growth in people looking at the rights of gun owners. From a Pew Research Center poll that came out in August 2015 there has been a change in opinion on how people view gun rights vs controlling gun ownership. Throughout the various years (2008,2011) of when polling on this topic took place there was a steady stance on the belief that controlling gun ownership should come before gun rights.In the years of 2008 there was a (49%) vs. (45%) poll which favored control of gun ownership, as well as in 2011 there was a concurrent agreement of the last poll but with the numbers of (51%) to (45%).This would change when the polling topic would be surveyed again in 2014 and published in 2015. The poll would show that (52%) would have the view of protecting gun rights to (46%) of people believing to control gun ownership.\n\nAfter the Orlando nightclub shooting in June 2016, NBC News and the Wall Street Journal released the results of a poll which found that 50% of Americans were more concerned the government would go too far in regulating guns, while 47% of Americans were more concerned that the government would not do enough to regulate guns. A CBS News poll conducted the same month found that 57% of Americans supported a federal assault weapons ban, 13 percentage points higher than a previous poll they conducted in December 2015 (after the San Bernardino shooting. Also in June 2016, a CNN/Opinion Research Corporation poll found that about 90% of Americans supported universal background checks.\n\nLater in the year polling about gun control measures were politicized through the 2016 presidential elections. A poll came out in August 2016 by the Pew Research Center based on Hillary Clinton and Donald Trump supporters and there stance on gun policy proposals. The research conducted looked at five separate proposals. The five proposals were based on back ground checks, prevention of ownership of firearms with people with mental illness, barring gun ownership from people on a federal watch, creating a federal database on gun-ownership, banning high-capacity ammunition clips, and lastly banning assault style weapons. The results that came from the poll show that on the proposal on background checks Trumps supporters are (75%) supportive of this proposal and (90%) supported by Hillary supporters.With the proposal of preventing firearms to people with mental illnesses there is similar belief by both party supporters in support. Trump supporters are in (82%) and Hilary supporters are (83%) support. The next proposal on barring gun ownership on federal watch and terror lists also show a similar support for barring gun ownership for people with mental illness. For Trump supporters they are (72%) support for this proposal while for Hilary supporters it is (80%).After the first three proposals there is a growth in the disparity on how candidate supporters view gun control measures. The federal data base gun control proposal shows a 39-point disparity. While Hilary supporters show a (85%) support for a federal database there is only a (46%) support in the Trump supporter group.In the next two gun control proposals there is a consistency between Trump supporters with a (34%) favorability.Hilary supporters have a favorability for the last two proposals with a (75%) and then (74%).\n\nOn October 11, 2017, ten days after a mass shooting in Las Vegas killed 58 people, a Politico/Morning Consult poll was released. It found that 64% of Americans support stricter gun laws, while 29% opposed them. Support was higher among Democrats (83%) than among independents (58%) and Republicans (49%).\n\nAnother topic that came up in the discussion of gun control is the question of should teachers be armed in the classroom for school shooting scenarios. A Pew Research Center poll was conducted in March and April of that year. The results looked a range of adults such as parents and non parents, gun owners and non-gun owners, and lastly on partisan lines. The survey came back to show that all adults (55%) opposed teacher having guns while (45%) favored.In the category of parents and non parents there was more favorably to oppose teachers having guns in the classroom. Parents opposing would represent (53%) and non-parents (56%).The category of gun-owners and non-gunowners show that gun owners would support the measure with the result of (66%) and a mong non-gun owners they oppose the measure of teachers having guns (64%).The results that stemmed from the basis of partisan lines was that Republicans (69%) supported the measure and between Democrats (71%) opposed having guns with teachers and officials in schools.\n\nOn February 21st 2018, eight days after the Stoneman Douglas High School shooting killed 17 people, the surviving students rallied for stricter gun control policies in Tallahassee, Florida, the state's capital and then again asked for the same gun restrictions at a CNN Town Hall later that day. The events led to students across the nation showing their solidarity by walking out of their individual high schools and marching with the survivors. A House Committee vote approved the bill to raise the age from 18 to 21 years old as the minimum age to buy and own a rifle in the state of Florida. As well as, creating a three-day waiting period for all gun purchases. The same bill proposed creating a program which allows teachers who have successfully completed law enforcement training and are deputized by the local county sheriff to carry weapons that are concealed within the classroom, if approved by the school district.\n\nIn February 2018, 66% of American voters supported stricter gun laws, in a Quinnipiac University Polling Institute poll with a margin of error of +/- 3.4%, the highest level of support measured since 2008. 70% of American adults supported stricter gun laws, according to a CNN poll with a margin of error of +/- 3.7%. 75% of American adults supported stricter gun laws, according to an NPR/Ipsos poll with a margin of error of +/- 3.5%. 65% of Americans support stricter gun laws, according to a CBS News poll with a margin of error of +/- 4%. In March 2018, 67% of Americans supported stricter regulation of firearms sales, according to a Gallup poll with a margin of sampling error of +/- 4% at the 95% confidence level, the highest in any Gallup survey since 1993.\n\nOn March 14th, 2018, many schools around the country took part in the Enough! National School Walkout to protest the NRA and current United States gun laws. The nationwide movement started around 10:00 A.M in each timezone and lasted about 17 minutes, each minute representing a victim of the Stoneman Douglas shooting. During the protest, students from different schools took part in many acts of remembrance such as: holding a moment of silence, reading out the names of the victims, or spelling out the rallying cry of the movement—\"Enough.\" However, several schools around the country did not let the activism go unpunished. Students faced anywhere from 3 hour detention to 5 day suspension for protesting.\n\nIn greater response to the Stoneman Douglas through an article of CNN that was updated June 13th, 2018 there has been a growth in states to respond in how they will control guns in the future. States such as New York, Florida, Nebraska, New Jersey, Washington, Illinois, Vermont, Oregon, Rhode Island, and Connecticut to expand on gun control measures.These measures range from state to state on banning bump stocks, stricter mental health checks, uping the legal age to buy a weapon to 21,restricting high capacity firearm clips to 15 or 10 rounds, and even the measure of city ordinances banning assault style weapons.On the federal level even there was a move by President Donald Trump in March 2018 in prohibiting the sale of bump stocks.\n\nPoliticians and the public alike have grown increasingly apart in the wake of recent events and tragedies. Many states have started passing legislation to change gun control in America which has lead to increased debate about the topic. Oregon, Washington, Florida, and Rhode Island have all passed legislation that increased gun restrictions in their states in 2018. These laws all favor ideas presented by Democrats and have been met with backlash from Republicans in the area. On the other side of the coin, two school districts in Connecticut have hired armed guards to be present at the school at all times in order to have an immediate officer on the scene in the event of a shooting. Republicans have supported this idea but Democrats feel that adding more armed people to situations only makes them more dangerous.\n\nA 2007 study found that an index of individualism and collectivism predicted both gun ownership and attitudes toward gun control in the United States.\n\n"}
{"id": "17072922", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17072922", "title": "Quiahuiztlan", "text": "Quiahuiztlan\n\nQuiahuiztlan was one of the four \"altepetl\" (polities) that made up the confederation of Tlaxcala. It is located in the modern city of Tlaxcala, Tlaxcala State, Mexico.\n\nQuiahuiztlan in Tlaxcala State shares the same name as a settlement in modern Veracruz State that was occupied in the 16th century CE as part of the Totonac culture. The two places are unrelated. The Quiahuztlan in modern Veracruz State has temples, ballcourt, plazas and residences, which are built on artificial and natural terraces on the fairly high relief flanks of the mountain. The site is most-likely famous for its association with the Spanish conquistador Hernán Cortés. \n\nExcavations conducted at Quiahuiztlan were conducted by Alfonso Medellín Zenil and Ramón Arellanos Melgarejo, from the Instituto Nacional de Antropología e Historia.\n\nIn the early 16th century, Quiahuiztlan in Tlaxcala State briefly seceded from the confederation, and replaced its Franciscan priests with Dominican ones. Quiahuiztlan subsequently rejoined Tlaxcala, but the possibility of a repeat secession continued to be used as a political threat.\n\nINAH.gob.mx\n"}
{"id": "1966572", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1966572", "title": "Red edge", "text": "Red edge\n\nRed edge refers to the region of rapid change in reflectance of vegetation in the near infrared range of the electromagnetic spectrum. Chlorophyll contained in vegetation absorbs most of the light in the visible part of the spectrum but becomes almost transparent at wavelengths greater than 700 nm. The cellular structure of the vegetation then causes this infrared light to be reflected because each cell acts something like an elementary corner reflector. The change can be from 5% to 50% reflectance going from 680 nm to 730 nm. This is an advantage to plants in avoiding overheating during photosynthesis. For a more detailed explanation and a graph of the photosynthetically active radiation (PAR) spectral region, see Normalized difference vegetation index#Rationale.\n\nThe phenomenon accounts for the brightness of foliage in infrared photography and is extensively utilized in the form of so-called vegetation indices (e.g. Normalized difference vegetation index). It is used in remote sensing to monitor plant activity, and it has been suggested that it could be useful to detect light-harvesting organisms on distant planets.\n\n"}
{"id": "24341599", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24341599", "title": "Revue philosophique de la France et de l'étranger", "text": "Revue philosophique de la France et de l'étranger\n\nThe Revue philosophique de la France et de l'étranger is an academic journal founded by Théodule-Armand Ribot in 1876. It was continued by Lucien Lévy-Bruhl, Emile Bréhier, Paul Masson-Oursel, and Pierre-Maxime Schuhl. Originally published monthly, it became fortnightly for 30 years, and finally quarterly. It is currently edited by Yvon Brès and Dominique Merllié and published by Presses universitaires de France.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4454263", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4454263", "title": "Richard Rudolf Walzer", "text": "Richard Rudolf Walzer\n\nRichard Rudolf Walzer, FBA (14 July 1900 in Berlin – 16 April 1975 in Oxford) was a German-born British expert on Greek philosophy.\n\n\"Education:\" Werner-Siemens-Realgymnasium, Berlin-Schöneberg; Frederick William University of Berlin.\n\n"}
{"id": "3483479", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3483479", "title": "Robert Lewis (director)", "text": "Robert Lewis (director)\n\nRobert Lewis (March 16, 1909 – November 23, 1997) was an American actor, director, teacher, author and founder of the influential Actors Studio in New York in 1947.\n\nIn addition to his accomplishments on Broadway and in Hollywood, Lewis' greatest and longest lasting contribution to American theater may be the role he played as one of the foremost acting and directing teachers of his day. He was an early proponent of the Stanislavski System of acting technique and a founding member of New York's revolutionary Group Theatre in the 1930s. In the 1970s, he was the Head of the Yale School of Drama Acting and Directing Departments.\n\nRobert (Bobby) Lewis was born in Brooklyn in 1909 to a middle class working family. Encouraged in the arts by his mother, a former contralto, Lewis acquired an early and lifelong interest in music, particularly opera. He studied cello and piano as a child but these eventually gave way to his love of acting. In 1929, he joined Eva Le Gallienne's Civic Repertory Theatre in New York City. His musical background proved invaluable later when he became a director of operas and filmed musicals in Hollywood.\n\nIn 1931, Lewis became one of the 28 original members of New York's revolutionary Group Theatre. Formed by Harold Clurman, Lee Strasberg and producer Cheryl Crawford, The Group was an ensemble of passionate young actors, directors and writers who came together to explore the inner processes of theatre craft.\n\nLewis and other members of the Group, such as Stella Adler and Elia Kazan, were proponents of a new form of acting based on the techniques of Russian director, Constantin Stanislavski. They believed the Stanislavski System, first taught in America in the 1920s by former members of the Moscow Art Theatre, Richard Boleslavski and Maria Ouspenskaya at the American Laboratory Theatre where Clurman and Strasberg had studied, resulted in a more truthful, more believable, and therefore more powerful stage performance than could be accomplished with more seemingly external techniques common at that time.\n\nLewis appeared in several original Group Theatre productions in the 1930s including Sidney Kingsley's Pulitzer Prize-winning \"Men in White\" and Clifford Odets' plays \"Waiting for Lefty\", \"Awake and Sing!\", \"Paradise Lost\" and \"Golden Boy\".\n\nLewis summered at Pine Brook Country Club in Nichols, Connecticut. Pinebrook is best known for becoming the summer home of the Group Theatre (New York). Some of the other artists who summered there were; Elia Kazan, Harry Morgan, John Garfield, Lee J. Cobb, Will Geer, Clifford Odets, Howard Da Silva and Irwin Shaw.\n\nAs in any artistic endeavor, differences in translation and emphasis between the Russian Stanislavski System, and what eventually came to be known as The Method, were debated vigorously in the Group. In the summer of 1934, Stella Adler returned from a trip to Paris where she had worked privately with Stanislavski and directly challenged Lee Strasberg's approach, deepening tensions which led to Strasberg's departure from the Group in 1937. In later years, Lewis held that Strasberg's Method, while valid in its particulars, was a misrepresentation of Stanislavski because it emphasized only some parts of Stanislavski's theory. \"(See Method — Or Madness?, below)\"\n\nDespite the Group's success, internal disagreements, the lure of Hollywood and financial issues began to take a toll and, by late 1936, production was suspended. Officially released from Group obligations, many of the members, including Lewis and Group founder Harold Clurman, went off to join other Group members already in Hollywood.\n\nIn April 1937, Lee Strasberg and Cheryl Crawford resigned as directors of the Group. A year later, however, Robert Lewis and Elia Kazan returned to New York to restart Group workshops and The Group Theatre Studio resumed with fifty actors chosen from four hundred who auditioned. Lewis, Kazan and Sanford Meisner were the principal teachers.\n\nThat same year, Harold Clurman returned from Hollywood to stage the Group's production of Clifford Odets' \"Golden Boy\", which became its most successful play. Robert Lewis was cast as Roxy Gottlieb, the prizefight promoter. Lewis later maintained that he had been miscast in the original production, though he assumed a more satisfying role as director of his own successful production of \"Golden Boy\" at the St. James Theatre in London, in 1938.\n\nWhile in London, Lewis studied with Michael Chekov, an actor whose work he admired and whom Stanislavski considered one of the foremost interpreters of his theories. At Chekov's studio in Devonshire at Dartington Hall, Lewis further shaped his understanding of Stanislavski's techniques, or \"method\", as it was informally known in America.\n\nThe following year, Lewis made his Broadway directorial debut with a critically successful production of William Saroyan's \"My Heart's in the Highlands\" (1939).\n\nAs did other Group members like Franchot Tone, Clifford Odets, Stella Adler, Elia Kazan and Harold Clurman, Lewis found the \"need to sin\" in Hollywood (as Odets called it) irresistible.\n\nIn his book \"Slings and Arrows: Theater in My Life\", Lewis complains that \"being short and round\", he reluctantly had to accept that, as an actor, he fell into the character, rather than the leading man category.\n\nTrue enough, after moving to Los Angeles in 1940, he became known in Hollywood for his ability to transform himself into memorable screen characters, particularly characters of different nationalities. He played German officers, such as Colonel Pirosh in \"Paris After Dark\" (FOX, 1943), opposite George Sanders, and Sergeant Schmidt in \"Son of Lassie\" (MGM, 1945), starring Peter Lawford, Donald Crisp and June Lockhart. He became French collaborationist Maurice Bonnard in \"Tonight We Raid Calais\" (FOX, 1943), and the villainous Japanese Colonel Sato in \"Dragon Seed\" (MGM, 1944), starring Katharine Hepburn. A highlight of his Hollywood character actor career came when he played Frenchman Maurice Bottello opposite his friend Charles Chaplin in Chaplin's controversial film \"Monsieur Verdoux\" (1947).\n\nThough he went on to perform in and co-direct (with Vincente Minnelli) musicals like \"Ziegfeld Follies\" (MGM, 1946), starring Fred Astaire, and he directed the 1956 version of \"Anything Goes\" (Paramount), starring Bing Crosby and Donald O'Connor, Lewis was strictly tied to a contract with MGM studios. Lewis reminisced he felt bored, underused and flustered in Hollywood; and struggled for some years to get out of his contract at MGM so he could return to Broadway and the East coast.\n\nRobert Lewis did return to New York in 1947 to direct his first big commercial success on Broadway, Alan Jay Lerner and Frederick Loewe's whimsical musical play \"Brigadoon\".\n\nIn 1947, Lewis co-founded The Actors Studio, a professional actors' workshop, with former Group members, director Elia Kazan and producer Cheryl Crawford. The Actors Studio was an attempt to recapture the close ensemble nature of the Group, and to evolve and refine the methods first explored by the Group in the 1930s.\n\nThe first year, about fifty young actors were invited to join. Lewis taught classes for advanced members with emphasis on inner action or intention, while Kazan, who preferred to work with the younger actors, held forth on technique exercises such as sensory recall, imagination and improvisation.\n\nIn the first year alone, Robert Lewis' group, meeting three times a week, consisted of Marlon Brando, Montgomery Clift, Mildred Dunnock, Jerome Robbins, Herbert Berghof, Tom Ewell, John Forsythe, Kevin McCarthy, Karl Malden, E. G. Marshall, Patricia Neal, Beatrice Straight and David Wayne, to name a few.\n\nLewis eventually left The Actors Studio over differences with Kazan and Crawford involving the production of a play (later resolved) and a desire to concentrate on his burgeoning directorial career on Broadway. Indeed, 1947 saw the opening of his first big commercial Broadway hit, Alan Jay Lerner's \"Brigadoon\".\n\nYears after Lewis' departure, Lee Strasberg was asked to join the studio. Years later, Lewis differed with Strasberg over certain particulars of The Method – as did others. Despite any such differences, The Actors Studio flourished under Strasberg's leadership and he became Artistic Director several years later, a position he maintained until his death.\n\nThe Actors Studio, which is still active today, became one of the leading centers for the Stanislavski System, or Method, of dramatic training, producing some of the most influential performers in American theatre and film in the later half of the twentieth century.\n\nWith the critical and commercial success of \"Brigadoon\" (1947), Robert Lewis was on his way to becoming one of the Great White Way's most respected directors.\n\nAmong the plays directed by Robert Lewis were:\n\"My Hearts in the Highlands\" (1939) by William Saroyan;\n\"Brigadoon\" (1947) by Alan Jay Lerner;\n\"Regina\" (1949);\n\"The Happy Time\" (1950);\n\"An Enemy of the People\" (1950);\n\"The Grass Harp\" (1952);\n\"The Teahouse of the August Moon\" (1953), winner of the Tony Award for Best Play and New York Drama Critics' Circle Award for Best Director;\n\"Witness for the Prosecution\" (1954) from Agatha Christie;\n\"Mister Johnson\" (1956);\n\"Jamaica\" (1957);\n\"The Hidden River\" (1957);\n\"Handful of Fire\" (1958);\n\"Chéri\" (1959);\n\"Kwamina\" (1961);\n\"Foxy\" (1964);\n\"Traveller Without Luggage\" (1964);\n\"On a Clear Day You Can See Forever\" (1965); and\n\"Harold and Maude\" (1980).\n\nBy the 1950s, Stanislavski's ideas on acting technique had become very popular in America. In his memoirs, Lewis notes that widespread adoption had also fostered widespread confusion and misinformation, both among its defenders and its detractors. There were many different proponents and many different interpretations, some successful and some less so, all lumped together under the popular moniker of \"The Method\".\n\nOn the stage of the Playhouse Theatre in New York City, at 11:30 p.m. on the evening of Monday, April 15, 1957, Robert Lewis presented the first of eight lectures to professional actors, directors and playwrights on the subject of what, exactly, Method acting is and is not. There were some 5,000 written applications to attend the lectures.\n\nIn an attempt to clear the air surrounding Method acting, one of Lewis' points revolved around the idea that there are many facets of an actor's preparation and Stanislavski intended that the actor prepare internally \"and\" externally, rather than relying exclusively, or too heavily, upon internal techniques such as affective memory. Opponents of Method acting complained of a \"generation of mumblers\", whose acting conveyed the truth of the actor but not necessarily the truth of the character on the stage. Lewis felt that such performances were the result of an unfortunate misinterpretation of Stanislavski's ideas.\n\nLewis lamented throughout his career, in fact, that Method actors, who simply spoke stage dialogue truthfully, exactly as they would in life, were sometimes discouraged from playing Shakespeare or other classical writers because some people believed these author's plays required a stylized method of speaking. In his lectures, Lewis maintained that by using their voices properly, Method actors could not only master formal ways of speaking, such as required for Shakespearian blank verse, but could create much more believable characters by doing so.\n\nIndeed, one of Lewis' students, and one of the actors most often associated with the Method, Marlon Brando, received rave notices and an Oscar nomination for his portrayal of Mark Antony in the MGM version of \"Julius Caesar\" opposite the great Shakespearian actor John Gielgud\n\nLewis's lectures on Method acting later became the basis of his first book, \"Method — Or Madness?\" (Samuel French, 1958).\n\nIn addition to teaching at The Group Theatre, The Actors Studio, his own Robert Lewis Theatre Workshop and the Lincoln Center Training Program, Lewis was a popular lecturer at many colleges and universities throughout the country for the better part of his career. He returned to the Yale School of Drama often, for long and short stints, depending on his directing schedule, and eventually became Chairman of the Yale Acting and Directing departments in the 1970s under Dean Robert Brustein. During his tenure at Yale, Lewis helped shape the careers of many successful actors such as Meryl Streep. He retired from Yale in 1976.\n\nAfter \"Method — or Madness?\", Robert Lewis wrote two other books on acting, \"Advice to the Players\" (Harper & Row, 1980), an actors handbook, and \"Slings and Arrows: Theater in My Life\" (Stein and Day, 1984), a memoir.\n\nLewis remained active in theater in the 1980s and continued to teach a new generation of actors and directors through his Robert Lewis Theatre Workshop and at Rice University in 1981-82. He also served as the first artistic director at the Wolf Trap National Park for the Performing Arts outside Washington, DC.\n\nHe was inducted into the American Theater Hall of Fame in 1991. In that same year, Kent State University established the annual Robert Lewis Lifetime Achievement medal in his honor.\n\nLewis died of heart failure on November 23, 1997 in New York City, at the age of 88.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "337353", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=337353", "title": "Safety data sheet", "text": "Safety data sheet\n\nA safety data sheet (SDS), material safety data sheet (MSDS), or product safety data sheet (PSDS) is a document that lists information relating to occupational safety and health for the use of various substances and products. SDSs are a widely used system for cataloging information on chemicals, chemical compounds, and chemical mixtures. SDS information may include instructions for the safe use and potential hazards associated with a particular material or product, along with spill-handling procedures. SDS formats can vary from source to source within a country depending on national requirements.\n\nA SDS for a substance is not primarily intended for use by the general consumer, focusing instead on the hazards of working with the material in an occupational setting. There is also a duty to properly label substances on the basis of physico-chemical, health or environmental risk. Labels can include hazard symbols such as the European Union standard symbols. The same product (e.g. paints sold under identical brand names by the same company) can have different formulations in different countries. The formulation and hazard of a product using a generic name may vary between manufacturers in the same country.\n\nThe Globally Harmonized System of Classification and Labelling of Chemicals contains a standard specification for safety data sheets. The SDS follows a 16 section format which is internationally agreed and for substances especially, the SDS should be followed with an Annex which contains the exposure scenarios of this particular substance. The 16 sections are:\n\nIn Canada, the program known as the Workplace Hazardous Materials Information System (WHMIS) establishes the requirements for SDSs in workplaces and is administered federally by Health Canada under the Hazardous Products Act, Part II, and the Controlled Products Regulations.\n\nSafety data sheets have been made an integral part of the system of Regulation (EC) No 1907/2006 (REACH). The original requirements of REACH for SDSs have been further adapted to take into account the rules for safety data sheets of the Global Harmonised System (GHS) and the implementation of other elements of the GHS into EU legislation that were introduced by Regulation (EC) No 1272/2008 (CLP) via an update to Annex II of REACH.\n\nThe SDS must be supplied in an official language of the Member State(s) where the substance or mixture is placed on the market, unless the Member State(s) concerned provide(s) otherwise (Article 31(5) of REACH).\n\nThe European Chemicals Agency (ECHA) has published a guidance document on the compilation of safety data sheets.\n\nThe German Federal Water Management Act requires that substances be evaluated for negative influence on the physical, chemical or biological characteristics of water. These are classified into numeric water hazard classes (WGK or WHC, depending on whether you use the German or English abbreviation).\n\nThis section contributes to a better understanding of the regulations governing SDS within the South African framework. As regulations may change, it is the responsibility of the reader to verify the validity of the regulations mentioned in text.\n\nAs globalisation increased and countries engaged in cross-border trade, the quantity of hazardous material crossing international borders amplified. Realising the detrimental effects of hazardous trade, the United Nations established a committee of experts specialising in the transportation of hazardous goods. The committee provides best practises governing the conveyance of hazardous materials and goods for land including road and railway; air as well as sea transportation. These best practises are constantly updated to remain current and relevant.\n\nThere are various other international bodies who provide greater detail and guidance for specific modes of transportation such as the International Maritime Organisation (IMO) by means of the International Maritime Code and the International Civil Aviation Organisation (ICAO) via the Technical Instructions for the safe transport of dangerous goods by air as well as the International Air Transport Association (IATA) who provides regulations for the transport of dangerous goods.\n\nThese guidelines prescribed by the international authorities are applicable to the South African land, sea and air transportation of hazardous materials and goods. In addition to these rules and regulations to International best practice, South Africa has also implemented common laws which are laws based on custom and practise. Common laws are a vital part of maintaining public order and forms the basis of case laws. Case laws, using the principles of common law are interpretations and decisions of statutes made by courts. Acts of parliament are determinations and regulations by parliament which form the foundation of statutory law. Statutory laws are published in the government gazette or on the official website. Lastly, subordinate legislation are the bylaws issued by local authorities and authorised by parliament.\n\nStatutory law gives effect to the Occupational Health and Safety Act of 1993 and the National Road Traffic Act of 1996. The Occupational Health and Safety Act details the necessary provisions for the safe handling and storage of hazardous materials and goods whilst the transport act details with the necessary provisions for the transportation of the hazardous goods.\n\nRelevant South African legislation includes the Occupational Health and Safety Act of 1993, the National Road Traffic Act of 1996, and the Standards Act of 2008.\n\nThere has been selective incorporation of aspects of the Globally Harmonised System (GHS) of Classification and Labelling of Chemicals into South African legislation. At each point of the chemical value chain, there is a responsibility to manage chemicals in a safe and responsible manner. SDS is therefore required by law. A SDS is included in the requirements of Occupational Health and Safety Act, 1993 (Act No.85 of 1993) Regulation 1179 dated 25 August 1995.\n\nThe categories of information supplied in the SDS are listed in SANS 11014:2010; dangerous goods standards – Classification and information. SANS 11014:2010 supersedes the first edition SANS 11014-1:1994 and is an identical implementation of ISO 11014:2009. According to SANS 11014:2010:\n\nDutch Safety Data Sheets are well known as veiligheidsinformatieblad or Chemiekaarten. This is a collection of Safety Data Sheets of the most widely used chemicals. The Chemiekaarten boek is commercially available, but also made available through educational institutes, such as the web site offered by the university of Groningen\n\nIn the U.K., the Chemicals (Hazard Information and Packaging for Supply) Regulations 2002 - known as CHIP Regulations - impose duties upon suppliers, and importers into the EU, of hazardous materials.\n\nNOTE: Safety data sheets (SDS) are no longer covered by the CHIP regulations. The laws that require a SDS to be provided have been transferred to the European REACH Regulations.\n\nThe Control of Substances Hazardous to Health (COSHH) Regulations govern the use of hazardous substances in the workplace in the UK and specifically require an assessment of the use of a substance. Regulation 12 requires that an employer provides employees with information, instruction and training for people exposed to hazardous substances. This duty would be very nearly impossible without the data sheet as a starting point. It is important for employers therefore to insist on receiving a data sheet from a supplier of a substance.\n\nThe duty to supply information is not confined to informing only business users of products. SDSs for retail products sold by large DIY shops are usually obtainable on those companies' web sites.\n\nWeb sites of manufacturers and large suppliers do not always include them even if the information is obtainable from retailers but written or telephone requests for paper copies will usually be responded to favourably.\n\nThe United Nations (UN) defines certain details used in SDSs such as the UN numbers used to identify some hazardous materials in a standard form while in international transit.\n\nIn the U.S., the Occupational Safety and Health Administration requires that SDSs be readily available to all employees for potentially harmful substances handled in the workplace under the Hazard Communication regulation. The SDS is also required to be made available to local fire departments and local and state emergency planning officials under Section 311 of the Emergency Planning and Community Right-to-Know Act. The American Chemical Society defines Chemical Abstracts Service Registry Numbers (CAS numbers) which provide a unique number for each chemical and are also used internationally in SDSs.\n\nReviews of material safety data sheets by the U.S. Chemical Safety and Hazard Investigation Board have detected dangerous deficiencies.\nThe board’s Combustible Dust Hazard Study analyzed 140 data sheets of substances capable of producing combustible dusts. None of the SDSs contained all the information the board said was needed to work with the material safely, and 41 percent failed to even mention that the substance was combustible.\n\nAs part of its study of an explosion and fire that destroyed the Barton Solvents facility in Valley Center, Kansas, in 2007, the safety board reviewed 62 material safety data sheets for commonly used nonconductive flammable liquids. As in the combustible dust study, the board found all the data sheets inadequate.\n\nIn 2012, the US adopted the 16 section Safety Data Sheet to replace Material Safety Data Sheets. This became effective on December 1, 2013. These new Safety Data Sheets comply with the Globally Harmonized System of Classification and Labeling of Chemicals (GHS). By June 1, 2015, employers were required to have their workplace labeling and hazard communication programs updated as necessary – including all MSDSs replaced with SDS-formatted documents.\n\nMany companies offer the service of collecting, or writing and revising, data sheets to ensure they are up to date and available for their subscribers or users. Some jurisdictions impose an explicit duty of care that each SDS be regularly updated, usually every three to five years. However, when new information becomes available, the SDS must be revised without delay.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3801417", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3801417", "title": "Situla", "text": "Situla\n\nSitula, from the Latin for bucket or pail, is the term in archaeology and art history for a variety of elaborate bucket-shaped vessels from the Iron Age to the Middle Ages, usually with a handle at the top. All types may be highly decorated, most characteristically with reliefs in bands or friezes running round the vessel.\n\nDecorated Iron Age situlas in bronze are a distinctive feature of Etruscan art in burials from the northern part of the Etruscan regions, from which the style spread north to some cultures in Northern Italy, Slovenia, and adjacent areas, where terms such as situla culture and situla art may be used.\n\nSitula is also the name for types of bucket-shaped Ancient Greek vases, some very finely painted. More utilitarian pottery situlae are also found, and some in silver or other materials, such as two Late Antique glass ones in St Mark's, Venice. Ancient Egyptian and Near Eastern shapes tend to have a pointed bottom, so that they must rest on a stand or on their side. The practical wider shape is a European invention, first seen in the European Bronze Age.\n\nTypically Iron Age situlas are bronze, as in the types of libation vessels found as grave goods in Etruscan graves, the Este culture (example, the Situla Benvenuti) and neighbouring Golasecca culture, and the eastern zone of the Hallstatt culture of Central and Southeast Europe. Here they have a distinctive style, often without a handle; the Vače situla is a Slovenian example. These usually have sides sloping outwards, then a sharp turn in at the shoulder, and outside Etruria often a short narrower neck. The shape has similarities with the narrower spouted Etruscan shape of flagon that was also copied to the north, as in the 5th-century Basse Yutz Flagons found in France. They are often decorated, in the most elaborate examples with several bands of figures running round the vessel. They may or may not have handles, and sometimes have lids. Many are made of several sheets held together with rivets.\n\nThe Etruscan examples are most characteristic in the 7th century BC, though continuing well afterwards. They are in various materials, from pottery to bronze, and sometimes silver. The Situla of the Pania is an unusual luxury Etruscan example in ivory, and the Bocchoris vase a ceramic import from Egypt from an Etruscan burial. The Este and Hallstatt examples are later, with the Slovenian production reaching a peak in quality in the 5th century, up to about 400 BC, well after the Hallstatt period had ended over much of its area. Some were found containing cremated ashes, but they were essentially luxury vessels used at feasts.\n\nNumerous Hallstatt situlas were found in Slovenia, mainly (19 of them) in the area of Novo Mesto in Lower Carniola, which has been named the \"City of Situlas\" due to this. Japodian burial urns made by the Japodes tribe of Illyrians are a 5th-century BC extension into modern Bosnia of this style.\n\nLater Etruscan and then Roman styles favoured a simple shape curving from the base, becoming vertical at the top, with a wide mouth and no shoulder, but sometimes a projecting rim. These had a variety of uses, including for washing and bathing. Any decoration was often concentrated on the upper part of the sides.\n\nSitula art was an important means of transition of Greek-derived motifs from the Etruscans through the regions to the north to the emerging La Tène culture further west. According to Ruth and Vincent Megaw, \"Situla art depicts life as seen from a masculine viewpoint, in which women are servants or sex objects; most of the scenes which include humans are of the feasts in which the situlae themselves figure, of the hunt or of war\". Similar scenes are found on other vessel shapes, as well as bronze belt-plaques. The processions of animals, typical of earlier examples, or humans derive from the Near East and Mediterranean, and Nancy Sandars finds the style shows \"a \"gaucherie\" that betrays the artist working in a way that is uncongenial, too much at variance with the temper of the craftsmen and the craft\". Compared to earlier styles that arose organically in Europe \"situla art is weak and sometimes quaint\", and \"in essence not of Europe\".\n\nExcept for the Benvenuti Situla, men are hairless, with \"funny hats, dumpy bodies and big heads\", though often shown looking cheerful in an engaging way. The Benevenuti Situla is also unusual in that it seems to show a specific story.\n\nThe term is also used for pails carried by figures in other art forms; according to Plutarch and other sources this was a sign of a devotee of Isis, who herself is often shown carrying one (containing water from the sacred Nile), of a rather different shape, with a rounded bottom, and sometimes lidded. This rounded shape, often with a \"nipple\" at the bottom (see Luristan example in gallery), is believed to have represented the female breast. These were also donated to temples as votive offerings by devotees.\n\nElaborate early medieval situlae were Christian liturgical objects used to hold holy water, also usually of bronze, and straight-sided with a handle. An aspergillum was dipped in the situla to collect water with which to sprinkle the congregation or other objects. Four richly carved ivory examples from the 10th century are known: the Basilewsky Situla of 920 in the Victoria & Albert Museum, decorated with twelve scenes from the \"Life of Christ\" on two levels (it contains one of the very few depictions of Judas Iscariot showing remorse and throwing the thirty silver coins on the floor of the Temple), the \"Situla of Gotofredo\" of c. 980 in Milan Cathedral, one in the Aachen Cathedral Treasury, and one in the Metropolitan Museum of Art in New York. All came from the milieu of the Ottonian court: an inscription says that Archbishop Gotfredus presented the Milan example in anticipation of a visit by the Emperor, also referred to in the London example which was possibly from the same workshop. The latest and most lavish is the Aachen example, which is studded with jewels and shows an enthroned Emperor, surrounded by a pope and archbishops. This was probably made in Trier about 1000.\n\nThe term may also be used for similar vessels from other cultures, especially the ancient Middle East and China and Vietnam.\n\nBronze bath buckets are also found in Islamic art, such as the 12th century Persian Bobrinsky Bucket in the Hermitage Museum.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "7711194", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7711194", "title": "Speech codes theory", "text": "Speech codes theory\n\nSpeech codes theory refers to a framework for communication in a given speech community. As an academic discipline, it explores the manner in which groups communicate based on societal, cultural, gender, occupational or other factors.\n\nA speech code can also be defined as \"a historically enacted socially constructed system of terms, meanings, premises, and rules, pertaining to communicative conduct.\" \"This theory seeks to answer questions about the existence of speech codes, their substance, the way they can be discovered, and their force upon people within a culture\" (Griffin, 2005). This theory deals with only one type of human behavior, which is speech acts.\n\nA basic definition of speech code by sociologist Basil Bernstein is, \"...a coding principle is a rule governing what to say and how to say it in a particular context\".\n\nWork by Gerry Philipsen has been influential in the development of speech codes theory. Work in the 1960s influences the theory as it stands today in the field of communication.\n\nBefore speech codes theory got its name Philipsen first referred to this theory as the Ethnography of Communication. He decided to change it because he recognized that many people could not get past the idea of Ethnography as simply a research method. He was considered a naturalist who watched, listened and recorded communicative conduct in a cultures natural setting. Em Griffin stated that, \"Many people can't get past the idea of ethnography as simply a research method.\" With that being said, Philipsen moved from description to explanation, resulting in him labeling his work \"speech codes theory\". Philipsen's ultimate goal was to develop a theory that would capture the relationship between communication and culture.\n\n\"The Speech Codes theory was created for ultimately two purposes. The first was to distill some of what might be learned from a large body of fieldwork research on culturally distinctive ways of speaking. The second was to provide a focus for further research and discussion. The theory was first published in prototypical form with an introduction to the concept of speech codes and a presentation of four empirically grounded principles about speech codes. It was presented as a formal theoretical statements with five empirical grounded propositions, four of which were carried over intact from the earlier version.\" (Philipsen, Coutu and Covarrubias).\n\nThere were four questions that Philipsen sought to answer through his research on the Speech Code Theory:\n\nWorks by Basil Bernstein heavily influenced Philipsen. Bernstein used the term \"speech codes\" in sociology and further elaborated on speech codes and their contexts. He stated that, \"within the same society, there can exist different social groups or social classes whose communicative practices differ in important ways\" (Philipsen,1997). Bernstein argues that people have different ways of speaking, which shapes and reinforces their understanding of themselves, other people, and social life. Bernstein believes that a coding principle is, \"a rule governing what to say and how to say it in a particular context.\" \n\nLisa Coutu, an ethnographer, helped to formulate the second proposition of Speech Codes Theory. This proposition states that within any given speech community, there are multiple speech codes. Her evidence comes from a large body of research surrounding Robert McNamara's book, \"In Retrospect.\"\n\nAnother important influence is the work of anthropologist and linguist Dell Hymes. His focus was on local speech practices in various cultural and social situations.\n\nDell Hymes constructed the S.P.E.A.K.I.N.G. model to aid in the search for speech codes in specific speech communities. The letters stand for the following (as reported by Miller):\n\n\nAn often cited study, the \"Teamsterville\" study, was conducted by Philipsen in Chicago. The study took place in the late 1960s and early 1970s. According to Miller, the \"Teamsterville\" nickname was given to the area of Chicago studied because the primary job of the area's men was truck driving. For three years, Philipsen spoke with everyone he could; from a kid on the corner to the women on their front porches, and men in bars. Although the people all spoke English, Philipsen could recognize the differences between their speech codes and his. As a follow up, another study, the \"Nacirema\" (American spelled backwards) study was conducted that contrasted the speech of Teamsterville with that of the average American.\nThe typical Nacirema speech is a \"generalized U.S. conversation that is carried at the public level and at the interpersonal level in face-to-face interaction.\"\n\nUsing these two studies above, Philipsen outlined statements that summarize the work within speech code theory. The statements are reported by Em Griffin as follows:\n\n1. The distinctiveness of speech codes (In any given culture, there is a speech code.)\n\n2. The multiplicity of speech codes (Multiple speech codes exist in any given speech community.)\n\n3. The substance of speech codes (A speech code has a distinctive psychology, sociology and rhetoric.)\n\n4. The meaning of speech codes (The speech community assesses the meanings of speech.)\n\n5. The site of speech codes (The terms, premises, and rules of a speech code are inextricably woven into the speech itself).\n\n6. The discursive force of speech codes (Speech Codes impact life.)\n\nAccording to Philipsen there are three defining characteristics of the speech codes theory and he illustrated these by referencing Carbaugh's previous study. The first characteristic being that speech codes are, \"grounded in the observation of communication conduct in particular times and places\" (Gudykunst, 2005). Speech codes theory is concerned about observing communication conduct through noticing, describing, interpreting and explaining the findings. The second is that speech codes present, \"a way to interpret or explain observed communicative conduct by reference to situated codes of meaning and value.\" Different meanings are interpreted in multiple ways depending on that community's discursive life. The last characteristic is that this theory, \"provides a general understanding of communicative conduct.\"\n\nPhilipsen characterizes the Speech Code Theory by stating that, \"It is general in 3 ways. It presents a characterization of the nature of all speech codes. It contains a general answer to the question of how an observer might systematically try to learn about the particularities of particulars, local ways of speaking. It presents a general answer to the question of how speech codes relate to communicative conduct.\"\n\nAccording to Gerry Philipsen, the Speech Codes Theory is a historically enacted, socially constructed system of terms, meanings, premises, and rules, pertaining to communicative conduct. One of his six general propositions is that wherever there is a distinctive culture, there is to be found a distinctive speech code. For example, when we are immersed in a new community with a culture that is unfamiliar to us, we often find certain patterns of speech to be strange. Because we are an outsider, we pick up on these differences initially. Yet over time, we grow accustomed to these patterns and no longer notice a difference in pronunciation and/or grammar. Speech codes are seen in the way a group determines when to communicate and what is appropriate to say at a particular time.\n\nPhilipsen addresses the criticisms of Speech Code Theory by saying that:\n\n1. \"Speech Codes Theory does not account for manifestations of power in discourse. This is a matter of omission in the theoretical assumptions, methodological framework, and examination of fieldwork materials.\n\n2. Speech Codes Theory treats culture as overly deterministic. A corollary to this is that it reifies culture as a static entity.\" \n\nThis is a strong force of conduct within communication. It has a social perspective that directly addresses the issue of \"a universal possibility in any body of discourse of manifestations of power, solidarity, intimacy\" and other important aspects of social life.\n\n"}
{"id": "3331039", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3331039", "title": "Stop Snitchin'", "text": "Stop Snitchin'\n\nStop Snitchin’ is a call for informants not to cooperate with law enforcement. \n\nT-shirts bearing the phrase \"Stop Snitching\" first appeared on the streets of Philadelphia in 2002.\n\nThe Stop Snitchin’ campaign first gained national attention in late 2004 in Baltimore, Maryland, when a DVD released by Rodney Bethea titled \"Stop Snitching!\" began to circulate. However, the slogan \"Stop Snitchin’\" and many other variations have existed in the United States long before the campaign became popular.\n\nIn some footage, a number of men claiming to be drug dealers address the camera, and threaten violence against anyone who reports what they know about their crimes to the authorities. This threat is directed especially towards those who inform on others to get a lighter sentence for their own crimes. NBA star Carmelo Anthony briefly appeared in the video. In subsequent interviews, Anthony claimed that his appearance in the video was a joke, the product of his neighborhood friends making a home movie. Anthony claims that the film's message should not be taken seriously.\n\nAs the DVD spread across the country, corresponding shirts became popular in urban youth fashion. The shirts typically show a stop sign emblazoned with the words \"Stop Snitchin’.\" Some shirts bear bullet holes, implying that snitches should (or will) be shot and sent to the hospital, thus referencing its associated catchphrase \"snitches get stitches\". The shirts have been more widely circulated than the original DVD.\n\nThe Diplomats, a Harlem-based rap group, made their own version of the Stop Snitchin’ shirts, with their logo on the end of the short sleeves. Another such shirt says \"I'll never Tell\". A new breed of shirts appeared for sale in flea markets and bazaars in south Dallas, Texas, in mid-2010. The new shirts extolled the benefits of \"keeping yo' mouth shut\" in regards to a trial involving one \"Fifi/Lisa\" and one \"Baldy/Red\". Further details of the trial, including a list of various charges set forth on the couple, are listed on the back of the shirt.\n\nThe video's creator, Rodney Thomas, a.k.a. \"Skinny Suge\", pleaded guilty to first-degree assault on January 17, 2006, in Baltimore and was sentenced to 15 years in prison, with all but three years suspended.\n\nNational examples of violence due to \"snitching\" include Angela Dawson of Baltimore, who was killed along with her five children and husband on October 16, 2002, when their house was firebombed after she alerted police to illegal activities in her neighborhood. Another example is Michael Brewer of Deerfield Beach, Florida, a 15-year-old who, in October 2009, was doused in rubbing alcohol and set on fire after assailants yelled, \"He's a snitch, he's a snitch.\"\n\nIn response to the video, the Baltimore police department created their own campaign, \"Keep Talkin’,\" which used free DVDs and T-shirts in a method similar to that of the Stop Snitchin’ campaign. Its goal was to assure potential state witnesses of their safety from retaliation and stress the importance of imprisoning lawbreakers.\n\nIn Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania, Rayco Saunders was to be a witness against three men charged with plotting to kill him. But he showed up in court wearing a shirt that said \"Stop Snitching\" and refused to cooperate with prosecutors. Charges against the men were dismissed.\n\nLeft-wing activist rapper Immortal Technique gave a well-known interview to \"XXL\" in which he contended that Blacks and Latinos should not snitch until police officers begin informing on each other for brutality and agents of the American government take responsibility for their actions.\n\nRapper Cam'ron was featured on the April 22, 2007, edition of the television news program \"60 Minutes\", and was interviewed by Anderson Cooper about the \"Stop Snitching\" campaign. When asked if he would tell the police if a serial killer was living next to him, he replied: \"I would probably move,\" but he would not inform the police. Cam'ron was a victim of a shooting that revealed no leads or clues because he refused to give police information about the suspect, claiming it would hurt his business and violate his \"code of ethics\". According to NYPD records, Cam'ron has cooperated with police in the past.\n\nThe entire Stop Snitchin' campaign has been parodied by an episode of the television series \"The Boondocks\".\n\nSome rappers, such as Ice Cube (\"Stop Snitchin’\" on \"Laugh Now, Cry Later\"), have made songs promoting the movement. Lil Wayne has a song called \"Snitch\" from his album, \"Tha Carter\", and The Game has titled one of his mixtape albums/DVD, \"Stop Snitchin, Stop Lyin\". Memphis' Project Pat also has a song called \"Tell Tell Tell (Stop Snitchin)\" from his album \"\". Rapper Obie Trice has a song entitled \"snitch\" in which he says, \"snitch and you will get hit\". \n\nBoston mayor Thomas Menino announced that he would begin confiscating Stop Snitchin’ shirts from local stores. Though Menino rapidly backed away from mandatory confiscation to endorse voluntary removal of the shirts by store owners, his proposals sparked considerable controversy locally and nationally. Though many saw the initiative as ineffective, counterproductive, or misleading, some community members in high-crime areas such as Dorchester defended the move as important to conquering fear on the streets and assisting in criminal prosecutions.\n\nThe shirts gained attention in Boston in 2004 when the mother of an alleged gang member (and a number of other spectators) wore the shirt during her son's trial for the shooting death of 10-year-old Trina Persad. Suffolk Superior Court Judge Margaret R. Hinkle successfully banned the shirts from the courtroom as a witness intimidation tactic.\n\nAn Antonio Ansaldi store in Dorchester removed Stop Snitchin’ shirts from shelves after Marco Antonio Ennis, who owns the store and manufactures the shirts, met with the mayor, community members, and relatives of recent homicide victims. Other stores, including Bargain T and T in Roxbury have agreed to cease selling the shirts.\n\nThe Stop Snitchin’ debate was revived when a Boston judge banned the shirts from all state courthouses, also disallowing camera phones in the interest of witness protection.\n\nThe Snitching Project, led by Rick Frei of the Community College of Philadelphia, is an ongoing student-driven interdisciplinary research initiative aimed at developing a better understanding of the \"snitching\" phenomenon and facilitating community discussion through education. The project is sponsored by the Fox Rothschild Center for Law and Society.\n\nBegun as an educational project 2007, the Snitching Project relies on inner city students, who are on the front lines of the Stop Snitching culture, to collect data regarding attitudes towards snitching, as well as dispositional and situational variables that might influence a person's propensity to cooperate with police.\n\nIn January 2010, in response to scathing investigatory series on the Philadelphia court system in the \"Philadelphia Inquirer\", Frei testified before U.S. Senate Subcommittee on Crime and Drugs about the relationship between the Stop Snitching phenomenon and other forms of witness intimidation. Frei and his students have appeared as panelists on a number of local and national television and radio programs (TruTV), as well as academic conferences. In addition, the students also organize and co-sponsor their own conference on the topic, entitled \"The Shh! Conference: The Stop Snitching Phenomenon, Witness Intimidation, and Silence About Crime\". In its third year, the conference has been attended by nearly 2000 students and community members in Philadelphia Speakers included Philadelphia Mayor Michael Nutter, nationally syndicated and controversial hip-hop DJ STAR, Pulitzer Prize-nominated mob author George Anastasia, head of security for the Comcast Center Jim Birch, and Philadelphia District Attorney Integrity Officer Curtis Douglas. Recent topics have included the use of cell phones to record crimes, underage sexting, and the use of social media to intimidate witnesses. The current project focuses on the concept of street vs. decent family orientation (as conceptualized in Elijah Anderson's seminal ethnography Code of the Street: Decency, Violence, and the Moral Life of the Inner City) as a predictor of attitudes towards snitching and perceptions of disrespect.\n\nThe Project also sponsors a student-created and -edited Facebook page, which includes copies of past surveys, results from the data collection effort, an extensive history of snitching, and links to relevant websites and articles on the topic of snitching.\n\nIn an interview on August 23, 2018, President Donald Trump stated that \"this whole thing about 'flipping,' they call it … they get 10 years in jail and they flip on whoever the next highest one is, or as high as you can go. It almost ought to be outlawed—it’s not fair. It’s called flipping and it ought to almost be illegal.\" This prompted commentators to note the similarity of his sentiments to the Stop Snitchin' movement.<ref>\n\n"}
{"id": "45240468", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45240468", "title": "The Pearl Button", "text": "The Pearl Button\n\nThe Pearl Button () is a 2015 Chilean documentary film directed by Patricio Guzmán. It was screened in the main competition section of the 65th Berlin International Film Festival where it won the Silver Bear for Best Script. It won the Lumières Award for Best Documentary at the 21st Lumières Awards. The filmmaker has described the work as part of a triptych with \"Nostalgia for the Light\" and potentially a third film focusing on the Andes. \n\nIt explores familiar Guzmán themes such as memory and the historical past, particularly that of history's losers rather than victors, recording some of the last surviving members of the original Alacalufe and Yaghan tribes. A departure for Guzmán is that it does not focus solely on Chile’s past under Augusto Pinochet, as the title was partly inspired by a shirt button discovered during a 2004 investigation by Chilean judge Juan Guzmán on a length of rail used to weight the bodies of Pinochet’s victims dumped in the sea and partly by the button after which the Yaghan native Jemmy Button was named when taken aboard HMS Beagle in 1830.\nA meditation in vision and sound on the geography and history of Chile, structured around the water which permeates the country and gives life to its inhabitants, looking in particular at the fate of two persecuted groups: the indigenous people and the victims of Pinochet. Topics covered include: the far north of Chile, the most waterless place on earth, where radio telescopes in the desert discover more about the cosmos each day; a schoolfriend washed away by the sea; the genocide of the native tribes in the far south and how their way of life was destroyed; the story of Jemmy Button, taken from Tierra del Fuego to England; the efforts under Allende to rehabilitate the surviving tribespeople; the concentration camps set up under Pinochet; how inmates were tortured and how their bodies, weighted with lengths of rail, were dropped from helicopters into the Pacific; how one corpse was washed ashore; and finally how one of the lengths of rail recovered from the sea had a mother-of-pearl shirt button encrusted to it. \n"}
{"id": "54095207", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54095207", "title": "UACES", "text": "UACES\n\nUACES, or the academic association for Contemporary European Studies, is a membership organisation for academics, students and practitioners in all fields of contemporary European studies and the study of the European Union. Its initialism derives from its previous name, \"the University Association for Contemporary European Studies\", which was amended when it registered as a Charitable Incorporated Organisation (CIO) on 1 December 2015. It is widely known as the editor and disseminator of the \"Journal on Common Market Studies\", a leading peer-reviewed academic journal in the field of European integration studies. Founded in 1967, UACES celebrated its 50th anniversary in 2017. \n\nUCAES' Honorary President is Professor Dame Helen Wallace DBE CMG, and its notable patrons include Sir Stephen Wall and Paul Adamson OBE AcSS, amongst others. \n\n"}
{"id": "2153531", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2153531", "title": "Yokel", "text": "Yokel\n\nYokel is one of several derogatory terms referring to the stereotype of unsophisticated country people. The term is of uncertain etymology and is only attributed from the early 19th century.\n\nIn the United States, the term is used to describe someone living in rural areas. Synonyms for yokel include \"bubba\", \"country bumpkin\", \"hayseed\", \"chawbacon\", \"rube\", \"redneck\", \"hillbilly\", and \"hick\".\n\nIn the UK, yokels are traditionally depicted as wearing the old West Country/farmhand's dress of straw hat and white smock, chewing or sucking a piece of straw and carrying a pitchfork or rake, listening to \"Scrumpy and Western\" music. Yokels are portrayed as living in rural areas of Britain such as the West Country, East Anglia, the Yorkshire Dales and Wales. British yokels speak with country dialects from various parts of Britain.\n\nYokels are depicted as straightforward, simple, naive, and easily deceived, failing to see through false pretenses. They are also depicted as talking about bucolic topics like cows, sheep, goats, wheat, alfalfa, fields, crops, tractors, and buxom wenches to the exclusion of all else. Broadly, they are portrayed as unaware of or uninterested in the world outside their own surroundings.\n\nThe development of television brought many previously isolated communities into mainstream British culture in the 1950s and 1960s. The Internet continues this integration, further eroding the town/country divide. In the 21st century British country people are less frequently seen as yokels. In the British TV Show \"The Two Ronnies\", it was asserted that despite political correctness, it is possible to poke fun at yokels as no-one sees themselves as being one.\n\nIn Scotland, those from the Highlands and Islands, Moray, Aberdeenshire, and other rural areas are often referred to by urban or lowland Scots as teuchters.\n\nAccording to the \"Oxford English Dictionary\" the term is a \"by-form\" of the personal name Richard (like Dick) and Hob (like Bob) for Robert. Although the English word \"hick\" is of recent vintage, distinctions between urban and rural dwellers are ancient.\n\nAccording to a popular etymology, hick derives from the nickname \"Old Hickory\" for Andrew Jackson, one of the first Presidents of the United States to come from rural hard-scrabble roots. This nickname suggested that Jackson was tough and enduring like an old Hickory tree. Jackson was particularly admired by the residents of remote and mountainous areas of the United States, people who would come to be known as \"hicks.\"\n\nAnother explanation of the term hick describes a time when hickory nut flour was used and sold. Tough times, such as the depression, led to the use of hickory nuts as an alternative to traditional grains. People who harvested, processed, or sold hickory products, such as hickory flour, were referred to as \"hicks\". The term was generalized over time to include people who lived in rural areas and were not considered as sophisticated as their urban counterparts.\n\nThough not a term explicitly denoting lower class, some argue that the term degrades impoverished rural people and that \"hicks\" continue as one of the few groups that can be ridiculed and stereotyped with impunity. In \"The Redneck Manifesto,\" Jim Goad argues that this stereotype has largely served to blind the general population to the economic exploitation of rural areas, specifically in Appalachia, the South, and parts of the Midwest.\n\n\n\n"}
