{"id": "39204980", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39204980", "title": "Alain Colas", "text": "Alain Colas\n\nAlain Colas (16 September 1943 – 16 November 1978)) was a French sailor, the first to complete a solitary round-the-world race in a multihull. He met Éric Tabarly in Sydney in 1967, and bought Pen Duick IV from him in 1970, and won the \"Transat\" in 1972. In 1972, he started the construction of a 72m (236 feet) 4 masted monohull for the 1976 \"Transat\". He broke his right ankle, underwent 22 surgeries, and got back on his feet for the solitary transatlantic race. Éric Tabarly won, and Alain Colas arrived 2nd but was classed 5th. On 5 November 1978, he took part in his last race, the first Route du Rhum. On 16 November 1978, as he passed the Azores, he sent his last radio message saying that everything was alright and sailing well. Neither his boat \"Manureva\" nor his body were ever found.\n\n"}
{"id": "15144684", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15144684", "title": "Andy Stirling", "text": "Andy Stirling\n\nAndy Stirling (born 3 March 1961) is Professor of science and technology policy at Sussex University. He has a background in the natural sciences, a master's degree in archaeology and social anthropology (Edinburgh) and a D.Phil in science and technology policy (Sussex).\n\nFormerly a board member of Greenpeace International, Stirling has worked in collaboration with a diverse range of organisations. His research interests include technological risk, innovation policy, scientific uncertainty and public involvement in decision-making, and he has been involved in developing some participatory appraisal methods.\n\nHe has served on several policy advisory committees, including the UK Government's Advisory Committee on Toxic Substances and GM Science Review Panel as well as the European Commission's Expert Group on Science and Governance.\n\n"}
{"id": "20215030", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20215030", "title": "Anti-nuclear groups in the United States", "text": "Anti-nuclear groups in the United States\n\nMore than 80 anti-nuclear groups are operating, or have operated, in the United States. These include Abalone Alliance, Clamshell Alliance, Greenpeace USA, Institute for Energy and Environmental Research, Musicians United for Safe Energy, Nevada Desert Experience, Nuclear Control Institute, Nuclear Information and Resource Service, Public Citizen Energy Program, Shad Alliance, and the Sierra Club. These are direct action, environmental, health, and public interest organizations who oppose nuclear weapons and/or nuclear power. In 1992, the chairman of the Nuclear Regulatory Commission said that \"his agency had been pushed in the right direction on safety issues because of the pleas and protests of nuclear watchdog groups\".\n\nSome of the most influential groups in the anti-nuclear movement have had members who included Nobel Laureates (e.g., Linus Pauling and Hermann Joseph Muller). These scientists have belonged primarily to two groups: the Federation of American Scientists, and the Committee for Nuclear Responsibility.\n\nGroups include:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3865671", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3865671", "title": "Aspersion", "text": "Aspersion\n\nAspersion (la. \"aspergere/aspersio\"), in a religious context, is the act of sprinkling with water, especially holy water. Aspersion is a method used in baptism as an alternative to immersion or affusion. The word is formed of the Latin \"aspergere\", 'to sprinkle', of \"ad\", 'to', and \"spargo\", 'I scatter' (, 1 Corinthians 10:2, cf. Psalm 77:16-20).\n\nIn addition, aspersion is performed as part of certain rites to remind people of their baptism, such as the renewal of baptismal vows performed by the Roman Catholic Church on Easter.\n\nSt. Peter is said to have once baptized five thousand people in one day; this was most likely accomplished by aspersion or affusion. Baptism by affusion (pouring) was certainly in practice in Apostolic times, being prescribed by the \"Didache\"\n\nbut there are no accounts that clearly show sprinkling rather than pouring or immersion was used.\n\nThe normal form of baptism for the first centuries—until at least the twelfth century—was immersion. However, when a person could not be immersed, baptism by aspersion or affusion was performed. There are records of people receiving baptism in prison, awaiting martyrdom, where immersion would be difficult or impossible, but the most common use was for a person who was ill and could not be removed from the bed; it therefore received the name \"baptism of the sick.\" Because of its rarity, doubts arose about its validity, as is shown by St. Cyprian's affirming it in the face of questioning.\n\nAt the time, baptism by aspersion, as by affusion, was regarded as a bar to Holy Orders; this appears to spring from the baptized person having put off baptism until he was in danger of death.\n\nIn the West, baptism by aspersion and affusion slowly became the common practice in later centuries.\n\nIn aspersion, an aspergilium may be used to place the water on the skin.\n\nThe Roman Catholic Church regards baptism by aspersion as valid only if the water actually flows on the person's skin and is thus equivalent to pouring (\"affusion\"). If there is doubt about this, conditional baptism is administered.\n\nWhile the root of the word \"baptize\" can mean \"to immerse\", the word is used in the New Testament also of a mere partial washing (). Nevertheless, some Christian denominations have taught that baptism not only by aspersion but even by affusion is invalid.\n\n"}
{"id": "26528973", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26528973", "title": "Association for Decentralised Energy", "text": "Association for Decentralised Energy\n\nThe Association for Decentralised Energy (ADE), formerly the Combined Heat and Power Association, is an advocate of an integrated approach to delivering energy locally. The ADE was founded in 1967 as the District Heating Association, becoming the Combined Heat and Power Association in 1983, and was then renamed to the Association for Decentralised Energy on the 12 January 2015. The ADE has over 90 members.\n\nThe ADE acts as an advocate for its members by engaging with Government and key decision makers to support cost effective and efficient solutions to industry, businesses and householders by:\n\n\nThe Association also provide secretariat for the Independent Heat Customer Protection Scheme.\n\n"}
{"id": "8791456", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8791456", "title": "Badnjak (Serbian)", "text": "Badnjak (Serbian)\n\nThe badnjak (Cyrillic: бадњак, ), also called veseljak (весељак, , literally \"jovial one\" in Serbian), is a tree branch or young tree brought into the house and placed on the fire on the evening of Christmas Eve, a central tradition in Serbian Christmas celebrations. The tree from which the badnjak is cut, preferably a young and straight Austrian oak, is ceremonially felled early on the morning of Christmas Eve. The felling, preparation, bringing in, and laying on the fire, are surrounded by elaborate rituals, with many regional variations. The burning of the log is accompanied by prayers that the coming year brings food, happiness, love, luck, and riches. The log burns on throughout Christmas Day, when the first visitor strikes it with a poker or a branch to make sparks fly, while wishing that the family's happiness and prosperity be as abundant as the sparks. As most Serbs today live in towns and cities, the badnjak is often symbolically represented by a cluster of oak twigs with brown leaves attached, with which the home is decorated on Christmas Eve.\n\nSince the early 20th century, the Serbian badnjak tradition has also been celebrated more publicly. Before World War I, soldiers of the Kingdom of Serbia developed the custom of laying a badnjak on a fire in their barracks. In the succeeding Kingdom of Yugoslavia, the military badnjak ceremony was further elaborated and standardized in army service regulations, but the tradition ended at the outbreak of World War II. Since the early 1990s, the Serbian Orthodox Church has, together with local communities, organized public celebrations on Christmas Eve in which the badnjak plays a central role. Parishioners festively cut the sapling to be used as the badnjak and take it to their church, where it is consecrated by a priest before it is ceremonially placed on a fire built in the churchyard.\n\nThe festive kindling of the badnjak commemorates the fire that—according to Serbian folk tradition—the shepherds of Bethlehem built in the cave where Jesus Christ was born, to warm the Baby Jesus and his mother throughout the night. The badnjak may also be seen as a symbol of the cross upon which Christ was crucified, the warmth of its fire symbolizing the salvation which, in the Christian belief, the crucifixion made possible for mankind. Scholars regard the tradition as inherited from the old Slavic religion. They interpret the badnjak as an incarnation of the spirit of vegetation, and as a divinity who dies by burning to be reborn, to whom sacrifices and prayers were offered for the fertility of fields, the health and happiness of the family. The burning symbolized sunshine, securing the vitalizing power of the sun in the coming year. Other South Slavic peoples have similar traditions, and the custom that a family brings a log into the house and burns it on Christmas Eve has also been recorded in other parts of Europe.\n\nTraditionally, the badnjak ceremony begins on Christmas Eve, but there are many regional variations surrounding the details. Early in the morning the head of each family, usually accompanied by several male relatives, selects and fells the tree from which a log will be cut for their household. The group announces its departure by firing guns or small celebratory mortars called \"prangija\". The Turkey oak is the most popular species of tree selected in most regions, but other oaks are also chosen. Beech, pear, quince, hornbeam, and plum trees are used in eastern Serbia, although less frequently than oak trees. In some areas of Montenegrin Littoral where oaks do not grow, olives, bay laurels, elms, or strawberry trees are used instead. Young, straight, and undamaged specimens are preferred. The badnjak may be more valued if it is felled stealthily in someone else's rather than in one's own woods.\n\nGenerally, each household prepares one badnjak, although more are cut in some regions. Depending on the local custom, Montenegrin Serbs may fell two, three, an arbitrary number greater than two, or the number equal to the male members of household plus one. The latter means that each of the males has a log associated with him, with the thickest log representing the head of household and the thinnest linked to the family's prosperity. If there is only one man in the household, three rather than two logs are prepared. The logs may be cut from different species of tree. In parts of the Bay of Kotor, each household prepares four sets of badnjaks, as they are burned there not only on Christmas Eve, but also on the eves of New Years Day, Epiphany, and the Feast of Saint Sava.\n\nIn Grbalj, south-west of Kotor, the number of the logs is equal to the number of people in the household. A terebinth is cut down for the badnjak associated with the woman of the house, called the \"badnjačica\" (), meaning she-badnjak. The same term is also used in other areas where only a pair of oak logs is cut, in which case \"badnjačica\" refers to the smaller of the two. In Resava, the \"badnjačica\" is prepared from an Italian oak, and the badnjak from a Turkey oak. In Zagarač, central Montenegro, both of the logs may be cut from the same tree if it is tall enough, the \"badnjačica\" then coming from the upper, thinner part of the trunk. The pair is in some regions joined by a third log called the \"badnjačić\"—badnjak the child. Although young and thin trees are usually used for the badnjak, in northern Dalmatia's region of Bukovica two relatively thick logs with diameters of 30 to 50 centimeters (12 to 20 inches) are prepared, plus one thinner log (called trinity). In other areas dry oak branches are collected from the ground, and used instead of a log.\n\nWhen the head of household finds a suitable tree, he stands in front of it facing east. After throwing grain at the tree, he greets it with the words \"Good morning and happy Christmas Eve to you\", makes the Sign of the Cross, says a prayer, and kisses the tree. He may also explain to the badnjak why it will be cut: \"I have come to you to take to my home, to be my faithful helper to every progress and improvement, in the house, in the pen, in the field, and in every place.\" He then cuts it slantwise on its eastern side, using an axe. Some men put gloves on before they start to cut the tree, and from then on never touch the badnjak with their bare hands. The tree should fall to the east, unhindered by surrounding trees. It must not be left half-cut, as then it will curse the house of the man. In some regions, if the tree is not cut down after the third blow of the axe, then it must be pulled and twisted until its trunk breaks. The resulting badnjak has a so-called \"beard\", the part of the trunk at which it broke off from the base of the tree. In Šumadija, half of a circular loaf of bread is left on the stump, the other half being eaten on the way back home. In Zagarač, the stump is covered with moss or dry leaves, and it will be visited again in spring: the stump sprouting through the cover is an omen of good luck and prosperity.\n\nThe first splinter from the tree is taken home and placed where prosperity is especially desired, such as beside the beehives, in the hen roost, or between milk basins in the dairy room, in the hope that the coming year's kaymak will clot to form thick layers in the basins. It may also be placed beneath some baker's yeast, so that the prosperity of the household may grow like yeast. In Semberija, a piece of the splinter is put in the dough for the česnica, a round loaf of bread prepared specially for Christmas dinner. This is done \"because of bees\", as the reason is traditionally termed.\n\nThe top of the felled tree is removed, leaving the badnjak of such a length that allows it to be carried on a man's shoulder, up to about long. Its branches may be lopped off, or not, depending on the local custom. Once in the home, each badnjak is leaned vertically against the house beside the entrance door. In Montenegrin Littoral, each should be adorned with leaved bay laurel, olive, juniper, and rosemary twigs, which are tied to the trunk's top, middle, and base with ivy or red silken or woolen threads. In parts of eastern Serbia and Kosovo the badnjak is wrapped in a man's shirt.\n\nIn west Serbia's region of Rađevina, centered on the town of Krupanj, the badnjak prepared for each household is cut into three logs, the most important of which is the \"dozemak\"—the log that comes from the part of the trunk that grew nearest to the ground. In Resava, Levač, Temnić, and Jadar of Serbia, as well as in Ozren and Romanija of Bosnia, the badnjak is cut into three logs associated respectively with the men, the women, and the children.\n\nIn the evening, a man of the family brings their badnjak into the house. If there is more than one badnjak, the thickest of them is regarded as the main one, and is brought in first. Stepping across the threshold, right foot first, the man greets his gathered family with the words \"Good evening and happy Christmas Eve to you.\" The woman of the house greets him back, saying \"May God give you well-being, and may you have good luck\", or \"Good luck to you, and together with you for many years to come [may we be]\", or similar, before throwing grain from a sieve at the man and the badnjak he carries. In the clan of Kuči, the woman touches the \"beard\" of the main badnjak with a whole loaf of bread. In Montenegro, two women holding lighted candles stand one on either side of the house door as the badnjaks are carried in.\n\nUpon entering the house the man approaches the fireplace, called \"ognjište\" ()—the hearth of an \"ognjište\" is similar to a campfire, in that it has no vertical surround. He lays the badnjak down on the fire and moves it a little forward, to summon prosperity for the household. Any other logs are brought in by other males and laid on the fire parallel or perpendicular to the first. In a family with the tradition of burning the badnjak and \"badnjačica\", they are laid one across the other; the males then kiss the former, and the females the latter. In Bukovica the two thicker logs are placed side by side, and the thinner one (trinity) is placed in parallel on top. In 19th-century Herzegovina, families with large houses would load their logs onto three or four pairs of oxen, which were then led into the house. The logs were unloaded and laid on the fire, and the oxen driven out through the back door.\n\nImmediately after the badnjak has been brought in, or immediately before in some places, an armful of straw is spread over the floor. The straw is usually brought in with the same greetings and throwing of grain as the badnjak. The person spreading it may imitate a hen clucking to call her chicks, \"\"Kvo\", \"kvo\", \"kvo\", with the family's children imitating chicks, \"Piju\", \"piju\", \"piju\", while they pick at the straw. In Čečava, northern Bosnia, the children then lie down on the straw, before closing their eyes and picking a stalk with their lips: the child that picked the longest stalk will supposedly be the luckiest in the following year. In the Bay of Kotor, the ceremony is accompanied by the words \"Kuda slama, tuda slava\"\"—\"Whither straw, thither celebration.\" A common custom is to scatter a handful of walnuts over the straw. It will be collected and taken out of the house on the morning of the second day after Christmas. Some of the straw may be set aside and used in apotropaic practices in the coming year.\n\nThe thicker end of the log, the end that was nearest to the tree's roots, may have a special significance. In Montenegro it is called the head of the badnjak; the main log is laid on the fire with its head pointing east. In central Serbia the badnjak is laid with its thicker end sticking out from the \"ognjište\". The household's shepherds would kiss over it to ensure an abundance of lambs in the coming year. In Gruža it is coated with honey which is then licked by children. At the side of \"ognjište\" where the thicker end is situated, the family may place a plowshare, a round loaf of bread, a glove filled with wheat, sugar, or a sieve containing grain, honey, cakes, wine, salt, prunes, walnuts, and apples. The cut surface of the thicker end is in Čečava kissed by all the family members after the badnjak is laid on the fire.\n\nThe head of the household takes a jug of wine and pours some on the badnjak; in some regions, he may strew wheat grains over the logs. He then proposes a toast: \"Grant, O God, that there be health and joy in this home, that our grain and grapevines yield well, that children be born healthy to us, that our property increase in the field, pen, and barn!\" or, \"Hail, badnjak, veseljak! I give you wheat and wine, and you give me every good thing and peace!\" or similar. The name \"veseljak\", literally \"jovial one\", is used along with \"badnjak\" in some areas. The head drinks a draught of wine from the jug, after which it is passed to other members of household. In the clan of Kuči, wine is poured on the \"beard\" of the badnjak, and then a little girl sits for a moment on the log—for the well-being of the cattle. Christmas Eve dinner follows, which traditionally includes a round loaf of unleavened bread, beans, fish, walnuts, honey, and red wine. The bread is not cut with a knife, but broken with hands.\n\nThe badnjak should not be jumped over or trodden upon, and blowing on its fire is avoided. It should not be moved when about to burn through, lest the log break at the place most consumed by the fire, which is usually strongest at the center of the fireplace; the separation of the log should be a result of the fire only. None of the family members should fall asleep before the log splits, otherwise some of them may die in the coming year, without warning.\n\nThe moment when the badnjak burns through may be marked with festivities, such as the log being kissed by the head of household, and wine being poured over it accompanied by toasts. A reward may be given to the family member who was the first to notice the event, and in the past the men would go outside and fire their guns in celebration. There is a special verb \"preveseliti\" used instead of the common \"pregoreti\" to express \"to burn through\" when referring to the badnjak, which has the same root as the noun \"veseljak\". Once the log has burnt through, some families let the fire go out, while in others the men keep watch in shifts during the night to keep the badnjak burning.\n\nOnce the badnjak has burnt through, the thicker end is often taken out of the fire and used according to the local custom. It may be carried around the beehives, extinguished, and placed between the branches of a young plum or apple tree. The men may make crosses from it and put them under the eaves, on the fields, meadows, vineyards, and apiaries, so that the coming year may be happy and fruitful. It may also be set aside for next Christmas Eve, to be placed on the fire immediately before the new badnjak, as a symbol of continuity. In Kosovo, a part of the badnjak is preserved and burned again on New Years Day and Epiphany.\n\nThe badnjak burns on through Christmas Day, whether rekindled or kept burning from the Eve. The first visit the family receives that day is considered important, comparable to New Years Day first-footing in the British Isles. The family may choose someone, usually a young male, to be their first visitor, known as a \"polaznik\", before the arrival of whom no outsider is allowed to enter the house. Early on the morning of Christmas Day he steps into the house, right foot first, and greets the family with \"Christ is Born\", to which they reply \"Truly He is Born.\" The \"polaznik\" then approaches the \"ognjište\" and repeatedly strikes the burning log with a poker or a branch to make sparks fly. At the same time he utters a wish that the happiness and prosperity of the household be as abundant as the sparks:\n\nThe wording of this well-wishing may vary, but its intention is always the same, to invoke happiness and prosperity. The \"polaznik\" will then throw a coin into the fire before being presented with a round loaf of bread, the traditional gift for the \"polaznik\", usually accompanied by some other present. The custom to use a domestic animal as a \"polaznik\" was kept in some regions until the first half of the 20th century. In Rađevina, the head of the household would lead a sheep into the house, place it between the \"ognjište\" and himself, and utter the wishes while striking the badnjak with a branch cut from it, before saying: \"We passed one fire, we are not afraid of another.\" His wife would then kiss him over the sheep after saying \"may the ewes kiss the lambs as we kiss each other.\"\n\nEmbers of the badnjak may be used for divination in Jadar. The number of these equal to the sum of grain and livestock sorts grown by the family are taken out from the \"ognjište\" and placed on the česnica. Each of the sorts is associated with its own ember on that loaf. The sort whose ember retains its glow longer than the others should be the most productive in the coming year. The log sparking by itself presages a rich harvest of honey. Cooled coals of the badnjak may be placed between the branches of fruit trees; the young trees may be provided also with twigs from the badnjak. Its ash may be spread over the fields and mixed with fodder. Some of the ash may be set aside to be taken with water as a remedy for headache. There are also numerous other regional practices connected with the badnjak.\n\nThese ancient traditions have modern, reduced versions. Modern houses usually have no \"ognjište\" on which to burn a badnjak, but it may be symbolically represented by several oak twigs, some of which are burnt in a wood-burning kitchen stove and the others placed beside it. Some people chop the badnjak into shorter logs so that they can be put into the hearth and burnt. The most prevalent custom, however, is to place a cluster of oak twigs, with their brown leaves still attached, in whichever location in the home the family feels is appropriate. This cluster is also called the badnjak, and it is usually kept in the home until next Christmas Eve. For the convenience of those living in towns and cities, such little badnjaks can be bought at marketplaces or distributed in churches. In a common arrangement, the cluster of oak twigs is bound together with twigs of European Cornel and several stalks of straw.\n\nThe laying of a badnjak on the fire was considered the least a Serbian family could do to show their devotion to Serbian tradition. In Petar II Petrović-Njegoš's poem \"The Mountain Wreath\", the plot of which takes place in 18th-century Montenegro, Voivode Batrić urges converts to Islam to return to Christianity and Serbdom: \"[...] Lay the Serbian Christmas-log [badnjak] on the fire, paint the Easter eggs various colours, observe with care the Lent and Christmas fasts. As for the rest, do what your heart desires!\" Petrović-Njegoš describes the holiday atmosphere that surrounds the burning badnjak on Christmas Eve through the words of Abbot Stefan, one of the mains characters of \"The Mountain Wreath\":\n\nThe badnjak ceremony, originally performed only within the family, became a more public celebration. A custom developed before World War I in the Kingdom of Serbia to lay the badnjak on a fire built in military barracks, so that the soldiers stationed there over Christmas could share in the holiday atmosphere. In the succeeding Kingdom of Yugoslavia, the military badnjak ceremony was standardized in army service regulations. On Christmas Eve, under the command of a specially appointed officer, the representatives of military units of a garrison formed a festive procession on horses, accompanied with music. Members of citizens' associations and other civilians of the garrison town usually joined the procession as it proceeded to the nearest wood to collect the badnjak. They felled a set number of trees, dedicated respectively to the Royal Palace, the military command of the town, the respective commands of units of the garrison, its oldest officer, and its officers' assembly house. The procession brought the trees to the barracks, in whose yard an open fire was built. The garrison commander then placed the trees ceremonially on the fire, and gave an appropriate address.\n\nMore and more state institutions, private firms, organizations, and clubs joined the procession each year, and the event began to take on the character of a public holiday. During the 1930s, the laying of badnjak on the fire became a court ritual. It was performed, in the presence of the royal family, by representatives of the army in the Royal Palace's room with a fireplace. At the end of the 1930s in some parts of Yugoslavia, especially Vojvodina and Montenegro, the military badnjak ceremony was performed not in the barracks yard but in a square in the garrison town. An open fire was built, on which the badnjak was placed by an Orthodox priest in the presence of soldiers and citizens. This tradition, symbolizing the unity of state, church, and people, was ended by the outbreak of World War II.\n\nYugoslavia's socialist government suppressed or discouraged public religious celebrations until the early 1990s. Since then, the Serbian Orthodox Church has, together with local communities, organized public celebrations on Christmas Eve. There are typically three elements to such celebrations: the preparation, the ritual, and the festivity. The preparation consists of cutting down the oak sapling to be used as the badnjak, taking it to the church yard, and preparing drink and food for the assembled parishioners. The ritual includes Vespers, placing the badnjak on the open fire built in the church yard, blessing or consecrating the badnjak, and an appropriate program with songs and recitals. In some parishes they build the fire on which to burn the badnjak not in the church yard but at some other suitable location in their town or village. The festivity consists of gathering around the fire and socializing. Each particular celebration has its own specific traits however, reflecting the traditions of the local community.\n\nThe expedition to cut down the badnjak is the basic activity in the preparation part of the celebration. It can be performed by an individual, but it is usually a collective act accompanied by a festive procession that may include carriages and horsemen. After the tree to be used as the badnjak is cut down, it is adorned with straw, ribbons, oranges, apples, and sometimes with the Serbian flag. In some parishes more than one badnjak is used in the celebration, and a different tree is felled for each. Often bunches of leaved oak twigs are prepared to be distributed to the congregation gathered at the church. Each badnjak is festively taken to the church gate, often transported on carriages. The badnjak may be taken into the churchyard without any ceremony, or it may be followed by a procession, as is the case in parts of Republika Srpska and the Bay of Kotor.\n\nThe ritual is the central part of the celebration. Vespers vary from place to place with respect to the time of the beginning of the service, its length and structure. The laying of badnjak on the fire usually comes after the service, and is done by a priest or by a respected parishioner. Before the burning, the tree may be processionally carried around the church. In the case of more than one badnjak, the trees are placed in the shape of a cross. The assembled devotees throw then into the fire their twig bunches, each representing a small badnjak. The consecration or blessing is performed by a priest: he strews wheat grains over the badnjak, censes it while singing the Troparion of the Nativity, and as he intones prayers, he pours wine and spreads honey on it. Instead of applying wine and honey, holy water may be sprinkled on the tree by dipping a bunch of basil into a bowl with the water. This rite is generally performed after the placing on the fire, although it may happen before, in which case the consecration may be performed in the church itself or in its yard.\n\nAfter the ritual the priest delivers a short sermon, followed by the church choir singing Christmas songs; poems that praise the Nativity of Jesus Christ may be recited. In Montenegro, decasyllable Serbian epics are sung to an accompaniment played on the gusle, a traditional Serbian bowed string instrument. The celebration ends with parishioners gathered around the fire, served with cooked rakia, wine, or tea, and the food allowed during the Nativity Fast. Parishioners may pick a twig from the badnjak and take it home to place in front of their icon, or at another appropriate location.\n\nAlthough Serbian public religious celebrations, as those of other peoples, were discouraged in Socialist Yugoslavia until the early 1990s, they continued among Serbian Americans. The public badnjak ceremony was held in Serbian Orthodox parishes in the United States during that period, as it is today.\n\nThe origin of the badnjak is explained by the events surrounding the Nativity of Jesus Christ. According to the Gospel of Luke , Mary Theotokos gave birth to Christ at Bethlehem, wrapped him in cloths and laid him in a manger. By Holy Tradition, the manger was located in a cave near that town. An angel of the Lord appeared to a group of shepherds who were keeping watch over their flock by night in that region, and told them that the Savior was born at Bethlehem. They went there and found the baby lying in the manger, as the angel described to them. By folk tradition, the shepherds brought firewood to the cave and built a fire to warm the newborn Christ and his mother throughout the night. The burning of the badnjak commemorates this event.\n\nWhile blessing the badnjak, some priests chant the following prayer: \"O Lord Jesus Christ, our God, who did plant the Tree of Life in paradise so that it might bestow upon us eternal blessedness, bless also now this tree which is a symbol of Thy cross and the Tree of Life in paradise, and which reminds us of Thy holy birth and of the logs which the shepherds of Bethlehem kindled to warm themselves when they came to worship Thee, the divine infant, and thereby prefigured Thy salvation-bearing cross.\"\n\nScholars regard the badnjak customs as practises inherited from the old Slavic religion. In the pre-Christian religion of the Serbs, as shown by Serbian scholar Veselin Čajkanović, there were trees seen as dwelling places of spirits or divinities. Čajkanović argues that there were also trees seen as divinities \"per se\". He considers the badnjak as a convincing example of the latter. Salutations, prayers, and sacrifices such as grain, wine, and honey are offered to him (the name \"badnjak\" is of masculine gender in Serbian); he is consistently treated not as a tree but as a person.\n\nGerman scholar and folklorist Wilhelm Mannhardt holds that the log represented an incarnation of the spirit of vegetation. The sacrifices offered to the badnjak were meant to guarantee the fertility of fields, the health and happiness of the family. Its burning symbolized sunshine, and was intended to secure the vitalizing power of the sun in the ensuing year. The lighting of the log could be regarded as a fusion of tree worship and fire worship, attested in Slavic customs; e.g., Istrians fed the logs lighted on St. John's Day by sprinkling wheat upon them. Čajkanović characterizes the pre-Christian badnjak as a divinity who dies by burning to be reborn, comparing it in this respect with Attis, Osiris, Adonis, and Sandan. He also proposes that the crosses made from the thicker end of the log may have originated from idols representing deities comparable with the Roman Lares, the cruciform having developed from an anthropomorphic shape of the idols. The badnjak is preferably cut from an oak, which was the most respected tree in the old Slavic religion, associated with the supreme god Perun.\n\nArchaeologist Sir Arthur Evans was a guest in a Serbian highlander family in the region of Krivošije, Montenegrin Littoral. Analyzing the practices, he concluded that the badnjak customs were connected with ancestor worship. The lighting of the log on the \"ognjište\" could be seen as a solemn annual rekindling of the sacred hearth fire, regarded as the center of the family life and the seat of the ancestors. The belief that ancestral spirits dwell in the domestic hearth was attested among Slavic and other peoples. Fire worship in the old Slavic religion was mostly transformed into the cult of domestic fire, and thus joined with ancestor worship. A trace of sacrifice to the fire is the coin thrown into it by the \"polaznik\" after the ritual of making sparks fly from the badnjak.\n\nFire from the domestic hearth was under no circumstances given out of the house on Christmas Eve, not even to a neighbor whose fire had gone out. The reason for this prohibition, according to Čajkanović, was the belief that the Eve is a time when the ancestral spirits, guardians of the family's happiness and prosperity, are especially active in this world. Christmas Eve dinner is a feast prepared in their honor, and they join the family at it. They gather on the straw spread over the floor, and on the hearth. These spirits could be removed from the family if any piece of their fire were taken away by an outsider. In people's words, fire should not be given lest the luck be taken away from the house, or for better crops, or because of bees. Referring to the latter explanation, Čajkanović argues that, in the old religion of the Serbs, the bees were regarded as pure and sacred insects, in whom ancestral spirits could dwell. The same explanation, \"because of bees\", is also given for the aforementioned custom of putting a piece of the badnjak's first splinter in the dough for the česnica.\n\nRussian philologist Vladimir Toporov has proposed that the felling of the badnjak was originally a reenactment of the mythical fight in which \"Mladi Božić\" (\"young god\") slew his father \"Stari Badnjak\" (\"old Badnjak\"). \"Božić\", the diminutive form of the noun \"bog\", meaning god, is also the Serbian for \"Christmas\". The characters of \"Stari Badnjak\" and \"Mladi Božić\" are found in old Serbian Christmas songs, where they are not explicitly referred to as father and son, and no fight between them is mentioned. By Toporov, the former personified the last day of the Old Year, the climax of the power of Chaos, and the latter personified the first day of the New Year, the beginning of reestablishment of Cosmic Order. He regards \"Stari Badnjak\" and \"Mladi Božić\" as originating from respectively the dragon and the dragon slayer of the Proto-Indo-European mythology. \"Stari Badnjak\" would be related to both the Vedic serpent \"Ahi Budhnya\" (\"the Dragon of the Deep\") killed by Indra, and the Greek dragon Python killed by Apollo. The words \"badnjak\", \"budhnya\", and \"python\" stem from the Proto-Indo-European root *\"bhudh-\", denoting bottom, foundation, depths, and related notions.\n\nAccording to Russian philologist and mythographer Boris Uspensky, \"Stari Badnjak\" and \"Mladi Božić\" have analogues in East Slavic tradition—Nikola's Dad and Nikola. The name Nikola is a popular reference to Saint Nicholas of Myra, whose feast falls nineteen days before Christmas, on 6 December, his \"dad\" being celebrated the day before. Nikola is portrayed in East Slavic folklore as merciful and protective towards the common people, patron of animals and agriculture, connected with riches, abundance, and fertility. Uspensky argues that this saint took on attributes of the serpentine god Volos, whose cult was very strong among East Slavs before Christianization. He was the adversary of the dreadful thunder-god Perun, who is in this case reflected in Nikola's Dad.\n\nThe notion of a quarrel between Nikola and his \"dad\" is present in a number of legends. The connection between the father–son pairs of \"Stari Badnjak\"–\"Mladi Božić\" and Nikola's Dad–Nikola is corroborated by the fact that, in many East Slavic regions, practices characteristic for Christmas have been transferred to the Feast of Saint Nicholas. There is, however, an inversion in the comparison between these two pairs. In the former pair, the first stems from the mythical dragon, and the second from the dragon fighter, while in the latter pair it is vice versa. This inversion explains, by Uspensky, the fact that in some areas Nikola's Dad is celebrated on the day after his son's feast, rather than on the eve of it. In that way, the \"dragon\" (Nikola) comes before the \"dragon fighter\" (Nikola's Dad), as is the case with \"Stari Badnjak\" and \"Mladi Božić\".\n\nSerbian ethnologist Petar Vlahović has proposed that the noun \"badnjak\" and the related adjective \"badnji\" (attributive \"Christmas Eve\") are derived from the root of the verb \"bdeti\" (\"to be awake\"), referring to a custom of staying awake through the night before Christmas Day. The same etymology of the adjective \"badnji\" has also been proposed by Vuk Stefanović Karadžić, 19th-century Serbian philologist, systematizer of oral literature, and ethnographer.\n\nThe custom that a family solemnly brings a log into the house and lights it on the hearth on Christmas Eve has been recorded in various parts of Europe. In England, a Yule log used to be festively kindled on the domestic hearth so \"that sweet luck may come while the log is a-teending\", as described by 17th-century poet Robert Herrick. In France, the log had different regional names: \"chalendal\", \"calignaou\", \"tréfoir\", and \"tréfouet\". In Provence, it had to be cut from a fruit tree; it was brought in by the whole family while they sang a carol praying for blessing on the house, that the women might bear children, the nanny-goats kids, and the ewes lambs, and that their grain and wine might abound. Before the log was placed on the fire, the youngest child in the family poured wine on it. Logs were devotionally laid on the domestic fire on Christmas Eve in various parts of Italy; in Tuscany, Christmas is called \"Festa di Ceppo\", literally \"feast of log\". In the Val di Chiana, the children of the family were blindfolded and commanded to beat the burning log with tongs. Traces of Christmas-log customs can also be found in Germany and Scandinavia. In Thuringia the family placed a \"Christklotz\" (Christ log) on the fire before going to bed, so that it might burn all through the night.\n\nIn Croatian tradition, objects of two different types are referred to as \"badnjak\". The first type includes leaved branches cut from Turkey oaks or hazel trees, up to long with as many catkins as possible. Such a branch used to be placed on Christmas Eve morning above the house door, under the eaves, or on the roof, and had an aesthetic role. The other type includes logs cut usually from oak trunks. In the evening the family used to ritually bring three such logs into the house and burn them on the hearth. These practices are no longer performed, but in some places a modified form of badnjak is used: a cross is carved into the bark of pieces of firewood which are burned in kitchen stoves on Christmas Eve. In Bulgaria, the youngest man of the family goes on the Eve into a forest to cut down an oak, elm, or pear tree, which will be used as the \"badnik\" (бъдник). After the man brings it into the house, a hole is bored in one end of the \"badnik\" and filled with wine, cooking oil, and incense. The hole is plugged, and that end of the log is wrapped with a white linen cloth before the \"badnik\" is festively burned on the hearth.\n\nIn Greece, a large log was lit on the hearth on Christmas Eve and kept burning or smoldering through the Twelve Days of Christmas. This was done as a protection against the demons called \"Kallikantzaroi\", believed to be emerging from their dens at night during that period to attack people and damage their property. The fire and smoke from the log was thought to prevent the \"Kallikantzaroi\" from entering the house down the chimney. The ritual burning of logs on the Eve was also carried out in Albania. When the \"buzm\", as the log was called there, was about to be brought into the house, a member of the family would go out into the yard, shout the name of the household's head, and proclaim that the \"buzm\" was coming and bringing all kinds of delicious things. The head of the household would respond by saying \"You are welcome!\" and the \"buzm\" would be ceremonially brought in, greeted by the family and treated with great respect. The log would be placed on the hearth, and often a significant part of all food and drink in the house would be put on the log and burned together with it.\n\n\nČajkanović (1994) lists the following ethnographic publications (in Serbian) for more details on the badnjak:\n\nPhotographs of Christmas Eve celebrations in 2009:\nVideo:\n"}
{"id": "23743689", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23743689", "title": "Barley Barber Swamp", "text": "Barley Barber Swamp\n\nThe Barley Barber Swamp, once a vast Bald Cypress forest and waterway in the Greater Everglades watershed, is a parcel of land surrounded by Florida Power & Light's (FPL) Martin County power plant. The swamp is located just over a mile east of Lake Okeechobee and due west of Indiantown, Florida. The old-growth cypress swamp is named after Barley Barber, a man who lived in the area at the turn of the 20th century. Little is known of the man Barley Barber except that he left the region after he had \"trouble with the law.\"\n\nHistorically, Barley Barber Swamp connected regional wetlands, including the Allapatah Marsh, to Lake Okeechobee, ultimately feeding the Everglades ecosystem further south.\n\nThe region was once a center of trading for the indigenous people of the Lake Okeechobee area. A tall sand mound with ramp extensions sits in what remains today of the Barley Barber Swamp. Anthropologists contend that the indigenous culture of the area converged on the mound to trade in pottery. Pottery shards and human remains found on the mound are 300 to 900 years old.\n\nSignificant hydrological changes occurred in Barley Barber starting in the late 19th century with the construction of Henry Flagler's Florida East Coast Railway. Regional drainage projects, highways, and the construction of the Herbert Hoover Dike around Lake Okeechobee altered and disrupted the natural flow. Today the Barley Barber waterway is diverted through the L-65 canal into the St. Lucie canal before it reaches Lake Okeechobee. Nevertheless it remains navigable and interconnected.\n\nOne of the oldest bald cypress (\"Taxodium distichum\") trees in the entire Southeastern U.S. sits in Barley Barber Swamp. It is estimated at over 1,000 years old, stands tall, and has a circumference of . There are also Florida strangler figs (\"Ficus aurea\"), swamp maples (\"Acer rubrum\"), and pond apples (\"Annona glabra\"). Barley Barber is home to a pair of nesting bald eagles, American alligators, North American river otters, bobcats, white-tailed deer and numerous unique plant species, including giant leather ferns (\"Acrostichum danaeifolium\"), shoestring ferns (\"Vittaria lineata\") and whisk ferns (\"Psilotum\" species), which are fern-like vascular plants. Many species of migratory and wading birds, such as egrets, ibises, limpkin, and the endangered wood stork, can be seen in the swamp.\n\nFlorida Power & Light acquired the land surrounding the Barley Barber Swamp in 1972 in order to construct the Martin County power plant. In the 1973 Environmental Impact Statement (EIS) Florida Power & Light states that \"FPL has designated the facilities of this project so that the swamp, containing several of Florida's endangered species, will not only be saved but will be preserved and enhanced.\" After the plant's opening, the company constructed and opened a boardwalk for tours in Barley Barber Swamp. Local businesses in Indiantown, such as the historic Seminole Inn, coordinated tourism for the swamp. Barley Barber served as an environmental and economic asset to the small, rural community.\n\nFollowing 11 September 2001, FPL closed off all access to the Barley Barber Swamp citing security concerns.\n\nFlorida Power & Light Company along with the Treasured Lands Foundation, a non-profit organization dedicated to protecting, restoring and maintaining land for the public’s enjoyment, worked together to restore the Barley Barber Swamp and re-open this environmental asset to the public. The Barley Barber Swamp currently invites the public to get a glimpse of the stunning old-growth cypress community with its free guided tours.\n\nTours of Barley Barber Swamp are offered October through May All groups are accompanied by a tour guide along the 5,800 foot boardwalk. Individual tours are by reservation only and must be booked through the historic Seminole Inn. They are offered Wednesday through Sunday at either 8:30 a.m. or 1:30 p.m. Call 772-597-3777 to book a tour or visit http://treasuredlands.org/\n\nBeginning on 5 January 2009, 30 environmental activists staged a five-day vigil along the Barley Barber Swamp to draw attention to what they claimed were damages being wrought by the power company's 3,705 megawatt Martin County plant. They also claimed that the swamp and its waterway is not a part of Florida Power & Light property but rather Waters of the State and Waters of the U.S, held for use by the public. The activists claim that the Martin County power plant is drawing water from the aquifer below the swamp causing the soil to subside below the root systems of the trees, resulting in declining forest health. On January 10, seventeen of the activists were arrested for trespassing. Florida Power & Light has since stated that the company will reopen the Barley Barber Swamp by 2010.\n\nMuch of the evidence behind claims of the Martin Plant's detrimental impacts on the Barley Barber Swamp come from research conducted by Hydro-ecologist Dr. Sydney Bacchus. Dr. Bacchus has stated that the power plant's cooling pond and water use have caused \"surficial aquifer draw down.\" Through the lowering of the water table, Dr. Bacchus argues, the ecosystem, including wildlife and the ancient cypress trees, is dying.\n\nOn 23 July 2009, Stevie Lowe, one of the seventeen activists arrested at the Barley Barber protest, stood trial for trespassing into Barley Barber Swamp where she chained herself to a swamp maple. The jury found Stevie \"not guilty\" of trespassing. She was however convicted of \"resisting arrest without violence.\" That the State Attorney's office of Martin County did not prove FPL's ownership of Barley Barber Swamp has led the activists to further their claim that the Barley Barber Swamp is Waters of the United States held for the use of the public rather than FPL's private property.\n"}
{"id": "24884148", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24884148", "title": "C Aquarii", "text": "C Aquarii\n\nThe Bayer designation c Aquarii is shared by two stars in the constellation Aquarius:\n\n"}
{"id": "83725", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=83725", "title": "Chariclo", "text": "Chariclo\n\nChariclo ( or ; ; ) is either of two nymphs in Greek mythology:\n"}
{"id": "1500520", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1500520", "title": "Cross sea", "text": "Cross sea\n\nIn surface navigation, a cross sea is a sea state with two wave systems traveling at oblique angles. This may occur when water waves from one weather system continue despite a shift in wind. Waves generated by the new wind run at an angle to the old, creating a shifting, dangerous pattern. Two weather systems that are far from each other may create a cross sea when the waves from the systems meet, usually at a place far from either weather system. Until the older waves have dissipated, they create a sea hazard among the most perilous. This sea state is fairly common and a larger percentage of ship accidents were found to have occurred in this state. Vessels fare better against large waves when perpendicular to the wave. In a cross sea, vessels are much more likely to be struck in a dangerous way.\n\nA cross swell is generated when the wave systems are longer period swell, rather than short period wind generated waves.\n"}
{"id": "47527", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47527", "title": "Cryosphere", "text": "Cryosphere\n\nThe cryosphere (from the Greek \"kryos\", \"cold\", \"frost\" or \"ice\" and \"sphaira\", \"globe, ball\") is those portions of Earth's surface where water is in solid form, including sea ice, lake ice, river ice, snow cover, glaciers, ice caps, ice sheets, and frozen ground (which includes permafrost). Thus, there is a wide overlap with the hydrosphere. The cryosphere is an integral part of the global climate system with important linkages and feedbacks generated through its influence on surface energy and moisture fluxes, clouds, precipitation, hydrology, atmospheric and oceanic circulation. Through these feedback processes, the cryosphere plays a significant role in the global climate and in climate model response to global changes. The term deglaciation describes the retreat of cryospheric features. Cryology is the study of cryospheres.\n\nFrozen water is found on the Earth’s surface primarily as snow cover, freshwater ice in lakes and rivers, sea ice, glaciers, ice sheets, and frozen ground and permafrost (permanently frozen ground). The residence time of water in each of these cryospheric sub-systems varies widely. Snow cover and freshwater ice are essentially seasonal, and most sea ice, except for ice in the central Arctic, lasts only a few years if it is not seasonal. A given water particle in glaciers, ice sheets, or ground ice, however, may remain frozen for 10-100,000 years or longer, and deep ice in parts of East Antarctica may have an age approaching 1 million years.\n\nMost of the world’s ice volume is in Antarctica, principally in the East Antarctic Ice Sheet. In terms of areal extent, however, Northern Hemisphere winter snow and ice extent comprise the largest area, amounting to an average 23% of hemispheric surface area in January. The large areal extent and the important climatic roles of snow and ice, related to their unique physical properties, indicate that the ability to observe and model snow and ice-cover extent, thickness, and physical properties (radiative and thermal properties) is of particular significance for climate research.\n\nThere are several fundamental physical properties of snow and ice that modulate energy exchanges between the surface and the atmosphere. The most important properties are the surface reflectance (albedo), the ability to transfer heat (thermal diffusivity), and the ability to change state (latent heat). These physical properties, together with surface roughness, emissivity, and dielectric characteristics, have important implications for observing snow and ice from space. For example, surface roughness is often the dominant factor determining the strength of radar backscatter . Physical properties such as crystal structure, density, length, and liquid water content are important factors affecting the transfers of heat and water and the scattering of microwave energy.\n\nThe surface reflectance of incoming solar radiation is important for the surface energy balance (SEB). It is the ratio of reflected to incident solar radiation, commonly referred to as albedo. Climatologists are primarily interested in albedo integrated over the shortwave portion of the electromagnetic spectrum (~300 to 3500 nm), which coincides with the main solar energy input. Typically, albedo values for non-melting snow-covered surfaces are high (~80-90%) except in the case of forests. The higher albedos for snow and ice cause rapid shifts in surface reflectivity in autumn and spring in high latitudes, but the overall climatic significance of this increase is spatially and temporally modulated by cloud cover. (Planetary albedo is determined principally by cloud cover, and by the small amount of total solar radiation received in high latitudes during winter months.) Summer and autumn are times of high-average cloudiness over the Arctic Ocean so the albedo feedback associated with the large seasonal changes in sea-ice extent is greatly reduced. Groisman \"et al.\" observed that snow cover exhibited the greatest influence on the Earth radiative balance in the spring (April to May) period when incoming solar radiation was greatest over snow-covered areas.\n\nThe thermal properties of cryospheric elements also have important climatic consequences. Snow and ice have much lower thermal diffusivities than air. Thermal diffusivity is a measure of the speed at which temperature waves can penetrate a substance. Snow and ice are many orders of magnitude less efficient at diffusing heat than air. Snow cover insulates the ground surface, and sea ice insulates the underlying ocean, decoupling the surface-atmosphere interface with respect to both heat and moisture fluxes. The flux of moisture from a water surface is eliminated by even a thin skin of ice, whereas the flux of heat through thin ice continues to be substantial until it attains a thickness in excess of 30 to 40 cm. However, even a small amount of snow on top of the ice will dramatically reduce the heat flux and slow down the rate of ice growth. The insulating effect of snow also has major implications for the hydrological cycle. In non-permafrost regions, the insulating effect of snow is such that only near-surface ground freezes and deep-water drainage is uninterrupted.\n\nWhile snow and ice act to insulate the surface from large energy losses in winter, they also act to retard warming in the spring and summer because of the large amount of energy required to melt ice (the latent heat of fusion, 3.34 x 10 J/kg at 0 °C). However, the strong static stability of the atmosphere over areas of extensive snow or ice tends to confine the immediate cooling effect to a relatively shallow layer, so that associated atmospheric anomalies are usually short-lived and local to regional in scale. In some areas of the world such as Eurasia, however, the cooling associated with a heavy snowpack and moist spring soils is known to play a role in modulating the summer monsoon circulation. Gutzler and Preston (1997) recently presented evidence for a similar snow-summer circulation feedback over the southwestern United States.\n\nThe role of snow cover in modulating the monsoon is just one example of a short-term cryosphere-climate feedback involving the land surface and the atmosphere. From Figure 1 it can be seen that there are numerous cryosphere-climate feedbacks in the global climate system. These operate over a wide range of spatial and temporal scales from local seasonal cooling of air temperatures to hemispheric-scale variations in ice sheets over time-scales of thousands of years. The feedback mechanisms involved are often complex and incompletely understood. For example, Curry \"et al.\" (1995) showed that the so-called “simple” sea ice-albedo feedback involved complex interactions with lead fraction, melt ponds, ice thickness, snow cover, and sea-ice extent.\n\nSnow cover has the second-largest areal extent of any component of the cryosphere, with a mean maximum areal extent of approximately 47 million km. Most of the Earth’s snow-covered area (SCA) is located in the Northern Hemisphere, and temporal variability is dominated by the seasonal cycle; Northern Hemisphere snow-cover extent ranges from 46.5 million km in January to 3.8 million km in August. North American winter SCA has exhibited an increasing trend over much of this century largely in response to an increase in precipitation. However, the available satellite data show that the hemispheric winter snow cover has exhibited little interannual variability over the 1972-1996 period, with a coefficient of variation (COV=s.d./mean) for January Northern Hemisphere snow cover of < 0.04. According to Groisman \"et al.\" Northern Hemisphere spring snow cover should exhibit a decreasing trend to explain an observed increase in Northern Hemisphere spring air temperatures this century. Preliminary estimates of SCA from historical and reconstructed in situ snow-cover data suggest this is the case for Eurasia, but not for North America, where spring snow cover has remained close to current levels over most of this century. Because of the close relationship observed between hemispheric air temperature and snow-cover extent over the period of satellite data (IPCC 1996), there is considerable interest in monitoring Northern Hemisphere snow-cover extent for detecting and monitoring climate change.\n\nSnow cover is an extremely important storage component in the water balance, especially seasonal snowpacks in mountainous areas of the world. Though limited in extent, seasonal snowpacks in the Earth’s mountain ranges account for the major source of the runoff for stream flow and groundwater recharge over wide areas of the midlatitudes. For example, over 85% of the annual runoff from the Colorado River basin originates as snowmelt. Snowmelt runoff from the Earth’s mountains fills the rivers and recharges the aquifers that over a billion people depend on for their water resources. Further, over 40% of the world’s protected areas are in mountains, attesting to their value both as unique ecosystems needing protection and as recreation areas for humans. Climate warming is expected to result in major changes to the partitioning of snow and rainfall, and to the timing of snowmelt, which will have important implications for water use and management. These changes also involve potentially important decadal and longer time-scale feedbacks to the climate system through temporal and spatial changes in soil moisture and runoff to the oceans.(Walsh 1995). Freshwater fluxes from the snow cover into the marine environment may be important, as the total flux is probably of the same magnitude as desalinated ridging and rubble areas of sea ice. In addition, there is an associated pulse of precipitated pollutants which accumulate over the Arctic winter in snowfall and are released into the ocean upon ablation of the sea-ice .\n\nSea ice covers much of the polar oceans and forms by freezing of sea water. Satellite data since the early 1970s reveal considerable seasonal, regional, and interannual variability in the sea-ice covers of both hemispheres. Seasonally, sea-ice extent in the Southern Hemisphere varies by a factor of 5, from a minimum of 3-4 million km in February to a maximum of 17-20 million km in September. The seasonal variation is much less in the Northern Hemisphere where the confined nature and high latitudes of the Arctic Ocean result in a much larger perennial ice cover, and the surrounding land limits the equatorward extent of wintertime ice. Thus, the seasonal variability in Northern Hemisphere ice extent varies by only a factor of 2, from a minimum of 7-9 million km in September to a maximum of 14-16 million km in March.\n\nThe ice cover exhibits much greater regional-scale interannual variability than it does hemispherical. For instance, in the region of the Sea of Okhotsk and Japan, maximum ice extent decreased from 1.3 million km in 1983 to 0.85 million km in 1984, a decrease of 35%, before rebounding the following year to 1.2 million km. The regional fluctuations in both hemispheres are such that for any several-year period of the satellite record some regions exhibit decreasing ice coverage while others exhibit increasing ice cover. The overall trend indicated in the passive microwave record from 1978 through mid-1995 shows that the extent of Arctic sea ice is decreasing 2.7% per decade. Subsequent work with the satellite passive-microwave data indicates that from late October 1978 through the end of 1996 the extent of Arctic sea ice decreased by 2.9% per decade while the extent of Antarctic sea ice increased by 1.3% per decade. The Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change publication \"Climate change 2013: The Physical Science Basis\" stated that sea ice extent for the Northern Hemisphere showed a decrease of 3.8% ± 0.3% per decade from November 1978 to December 2012.\n\nIce forms on rivers and lakes in response to seasonal cooling. The sizes of the ice bodies involved are too small to exert other than localized climatic effects. However, the freeze-up/break-up processes respond to large-scale and local weather factors, such that considerable interannual variability exists in the dates of appearance and disappearance of the ice. Long series of lake-ice observations can serve as a proxy climate record, and the monitoring of freeze-up and break-up trends may provide a convenient integrated and seasonally specific index of climatic perturbations. Information on river-ice conditions is less useful as a climatic proxy because ice formation is strongly dependent on river-flow regime, which is affected by precipitation, snow melt, and watershed runoff as well as being subject to human interference that directly modifies channel flow, or that indirectly affects the runoff via land-use practices.\n\nLake freeze-up depends on the heat storage in the lake and therefore on its depth, the rate and temperature of any inflow, and water-air energy fluxes. Information on lake depth is often unavailable, although some indication of the depth of shallow lakes in the Arctic can be obtained from airborne radar imagery during late winter (Sellman \"et al.\" 1975) and spaceborne optical imagery during summer (Duguay and Lafleur 1997). The timing of breakup is modified by snow depth on the ice as well as by ice thickness and freshwater inflow.\n\nFrozen ground (permafrost and seasonally frozen ground) occupies approximately 54 million km of the exposed land areas of the Northern Hemisphere (Zhang et al., 2003) and therefore has the largest areal extent of any component of the cryosphere. Permafrost (perennially frozen ground) may occur where mean annual air temperatures (MAAT) are less than -1 or -2 °C and is generally continuous where MAAT are less than -7 °C. In addition, its extent and thickness are affected by ground moisture content, vegetation cover, winter snow depth, and aspect. The global extent of permafrost is still not completely known, but it underlies approximately 20% of Northern Hemisphere land areas. Thicknesses exceed 600 m along the Arctic coast of northeastern Siberia and Alaska, but, toward the margins, permafrost becomes thinner and horizontally discontinuous. The marginal zones will be more immediately subject to any melting caused by a warming trend. Most of the presently existing permafrost formed during previous colder conditions and is therefore relic. However, permafrost may form under present-day polar climates where glaciers retreat or land emergence exposes unfrozen ground. Washburn (1973) concluded that most continuous permafrost is in balance with the present climate at its upper surface, but changes at the base depend on the present climate and geothermal heat flow; in contrast, most discontinuous permafrost is probably unstable or \"in such delicate equilibrium that the slightest climatic or surface change will have drastic disequilibrium effects\".\n\nUnder warming conditions, the increasing depth of the summer active layer has significant impacts on the hydrologic and geomorphic regimes. Thawing and retreat of permafrost have been reported in the upper Mackenzie Valley and along the southern margin of its occurrence in Manitoba, but such observations are not readily quantified and generalized. Based on average latitudinal gradients of air temperature, an average northward displacement of the southern permafrost boundary by 50-to-150 km could be expected, under equilibrium conditions, for a 1 °C warming.\n\nOnly a fraction of the permafrost zone consists of actual ground ice. The remainder (dry permafrost) is simply soil or rock at subfreezing temperatures. The ice volume is generally greatest in the uppermost permafrost layers and mainly comprises pore and segregated ice in Earth material. Measurements of bore-hole temperatures in permafrost can be used as indicators of net changes in temperature regime. Gold and Lachenbruch (1973) infer a 2-4 °C warming over 75 to 100 years at Cape Thompson, Alaska, where the upper 25% of the 400-m thick permafrost is unstable with respect to an equilibrium profile of temperature with depth (for the present mean annual surface temperature of -5 °C). Maritime influences may have biased this estimate, however. At Prudhoe Bay similar data imply a 1.8 °C warming over the last 100 years (Lachenbruch \"et al.\" 1982). Further complications may be introduced by changes in snow-cover depths and the natural or artificial disturbance of the surface vegetation.\n\nThe potential rates of permafrost thawing have been established by Osterkamp (1984) to be two centuries or less for 25-meter-thick permafrost in the discontinuous zone of interior Alaska, assuming warming from -0.4 to 0 °C in 3–4 years, followed by a further 2.6 °C rise. Although the response of permafrost (depth) to temperature change is typically a very slow process (Osterkamp 1984; Koster 1993), there is ample evidence for the fact that the active layer thickness quickly responds to a temperature change (Kane \"et al.\" 1991). Whether, under a warming or cooling scenario, global climate change will have a significant effect on the duration of frost-free periods in both regions with seasonally and perennially frozen ground.\n\nIce sheets and glaciers are flowing ice masses that rest on solid land. They are controlled by snow accumulation, surface and basal melt, calving into surrounding oceans or lakes and internal dynamics. The latter results from gravity-driven creep flow (\"glacial flow\") within the ice body and sliding on the underlying land, which leads to thinning and horizontal spreading. Any imbalance of this dynamic equilibrium between mass gain, loss and transport due to flow results in either growing or shrinking ice bodies.\n\nIce sheets are the greatest potential source of global freshwater, holding approximately 77% of the global total. This corresponds to 80 m of world sea-level equivalent, with Antarctica accounting for 90% of this. Greenland accounts for most of the remaining 10%, with other ice bodies and glaciers accounting for less than 0.5%. Because of their size in relation to annual rates of snow accumulation and melt, the residence time of water in ice sheets can extend to 100,000 or 1 million years. Consequently, any climatic perturbations produce slow responses, occurring over glacial and interglacial periods. Valley glaciers respond rapidly to climatic fluctuations with typical response times of 10–50 years. However, the response of individual glaciers may be asynchronous to the same climatic forcing because of differences in glacier length, elevation, slope, and speed of motion. Oerlemans (1994) provided evidence of coherent global glacier retreat which could be explained by a linear warming trend of 0.66 °C per 100 years.\n\nWhile glacier variations are likely to have minimal effects upon global climate, their recession may have contributed one third to one half of the observed 20th Century rise in sea level (Meier 1984; IPCC 1996). Furthermore, it is extremely likely that such extensive glacier recession as is currently observed in the Western Cordillera of North America, where runoff from glacierized basins is used for irrigation and hydropower, involves significant hydrological and ecosystem impacts. Effective water-resource planning and impact mitigation in such areas depends upon developing a sophisticated knowledge of the status of glacier ice and the mechanisms that cause it to change. Furthermore, a clear understanding of the mechanisms at work is crucial to interpreting the global-change signals that are contained in the time series of glacier mass balance records.\n\nCombined glacier mass balance estimates of the large ice sheets carry an uncertainty of about 20%. Studies based on estimated snowfall and mass output tend to indicate that the ice sheets are near balance or taking some water out of the oceans. Marinebased studies suggest sea-level rise from the Antarctic or rapid ice-shelf basal melting. Some authors (Paterson 1993; Alley 1997) have suggested that the difference between the observed rate of sea-level rise (roughly 2 mm/y) and the explained rate of sea-level rise from melting of mountain glaciers, thermal expansion of the ocean, etc. (roughly 1 mm/y or less) is similar to the modeled imbalance in the Antarctic (roughly 1 mm/y of sea-level rise; Huybrechts 1990), suggesting a contribution of sea-level rise from the Antarctic.\n\nRelationships between global climate and changes in ice extent are complex. The mass balance of land-based glaciers and ice sheets is determined by the accumulation of snow, mostly in winter, and warm-season ablation due primarily to net radiation and turbulent heat fluxes to melting ice and snow from warm-air advection,(Munro 1990). However, most of Antarctica never experiences surface melting. Where ice masses terminate in the ocean, iceberg calving is the major contributor to mass loss. In this situation, the ice margin may extend out into deep water as a floating ice shelf, such as that in the Ross Sea. Despite the possibility that global warming could result in losses to the Greenland ice sheet being offset by gains to the Antarctic ice sheet, there is major concern about the possibility of a West Antarctic Ice Sheet collapse. The West Antarctic Ice Sheet is grounded on bedrock below sea level, and its collapse has the potential of raising the world sea level 6–7 m over a few hundred years.\n\nMost of the discharge of the West Antarctic Ice Sheet is via the five major ice streams (faster flowing ice) entering the Ross Ice Shelf, the Rutford Ice Stream entering Ronne-Filchner shelf of the Weddell Sea, and the Thwaites Glacier and Pine Island Glacier entering the Amundsen Ice Shelf. Opinions differ as to the present mass balance of these systems (Bentley 1983, 1985), principally because of the limited data. The West Antarctic Ice Sheet is stable so long as the Ross Ice Shelf is constrained by drag along its lateral boundaries and pinned by local grounding.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "56413517", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56413517", "title": "Dandelion Energy", "text": "Dandelion Energy\n\nDandelion is an American company which offers geothermal heating installation in upstate New York. Prior to 2017, it was part of X, before being spun out into an independent company. The system consists of a heat pump which pipes energy either to or from a house.\n\nIn June 2018, Dandelion began installation of the first sub $20K geothermal heat pump, Dandelion Air. The product was designed in-house by the company, which is installed in the backyard of a residential property and is currently financed over a 20 year term.\n"}
{"id": "3881587", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3881587", "title": "Dixon Springs State Park", "text": "Dixon Springs State Park\n\nDixon Springs State Park is an Illinois state park in Pope County, Illinois, United States, and is one of several state parks in the Illinois Shawnee Hills. The park is on a giant block of rock which was dropped along a fault that extends northwesterly across Pope County. The park is about west of Golconda on Illinois Route 146 near its junction with Illinois Route 145. The first land acquisition was in 1946.\n\nThe area around the park was occupied by various tribes of Algonquins who, after the Shawnee had been driven from Tennessee, had settled near the mouth of the Wabash River. Dixon Springs was one of their favorite camping grounds and was called \"Kitchemuske-nee-be\" for the Great Medicine Waters. One of the better known Indian trails, which the early French called the \"Grand Trace,\" passed to the west of the park and south to Fort Massac, then branched out into lesser trails. Much of the \"Grand Trace\" is Illinois Route 145 and runs nearly all of its length south from Harrisburg, Illinois through the Shawnee National Forest. This section of the state was part of an Indian reservation occupied for a time by about 6,000 Native Americans. Like the buffalo, most of the Indians were gone by the early 1830s.\n\nDixon Springs takes its name from William Dixon, one of the first white settlers to build a home in this section, who obtained a school land warrant in 1848 from Governor Augustus C. French. His cabin was a landmark for many years, as was an old log church on the adjoining knoll. A small community grew up at Dixon Springs with a general store, post office, blacksmith shop, grist mill, and several churches. Dixon Springs became a 19th-century health spa which attracted hundreds to the seven springs of mineral-enriched water. A bathhouse provided mineral or soft water baths, hot or cold, available at any time. The natural environment of the area and its stone formations helped to give the park valley a more equable temperature in the summer than most of southern Illinois. This made the resort so popular that people came by steamboat excursions from as far away as Paducah, Kentucky, Evansville, Indiana, and Cairo to Golconda. They then traveled by train to within a couple of miles of the park.\n\n"}
{"id": "22103162", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22103162", "title": "Ecoflation", "text": "Ecoflation\n\nEcoflation (a portmanteau of ecological inflation) is a future scenario in \"Rattling Supply Chains,\" a research report by the World Resources Institute and A.T. Kearney released in November 2008, characterized by natural resources becoming scarcer and sustainability issues become more pressing, with environmental costs increasingly being borne by those responsible. The concept of ecoflation focuses on having environmental externalities of business be the burden of the organization/business responsible, rather than costs being allocated to the public in general. Ecoflation represents more accurate pricing of the true costs associated with business actions\n\n"}
{"id": "25790152", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25790152", "title": "Ecological triage", "text": "Ecological triage\n\nEcological triage refers to the decision-making of environmental conservation using the concepts of medical triage. In medicine, the allocation of resources in an urgent situation is prioritized for those with the greatest need and those who would receive the greatest benefit. Similarly, the two parameters of ecological triage are the level of threat and the probability of recovery. Because there are limitations to resources such as time, money, and manpower, it is important to prioritize specific efforts and distribute resources efficiently. Ecological triage differentiates between areas with an attainable emergent need, those who would benefit from preventative measures, and those that are beyond repair.\n\nEcological triage is not simple, dichotomous decision making. It involves an array of complex factors including assumptions, mathematical calculations, and planning for uncertainties. When assessing an ecosystem, there are a myriad of factors conservationists consider, but there are also variables which they are unable to account for. Conservationists and scientists often have incomplete understanding of population dynamics, impacts of external threats, and efficacy of different conservation tactics. It is important to incorporate these unknowns when assessing a population or ecosystem. By following the principles of triage, we are able to allow for the efficient allocation of resources as conservationists continue to develop the best options for ecological preservation and restoration.\n\nDue to the multitude of variables within a population or ecosystem, it is important to address the unknown factors which may not initially be accounted for. Many ecologists utilize the Info-gap decision theory, which focuses on strategies that are most likely to succeed despite uncertainties. This process is composed of three main elements:\n\n\nSome critics of environmental triage believe the process chooses \"winners\" and \"losers\" and therefore abandons certain demographics. Other criticism argues that ecological triage allows for the government to justify under-funding environmental programs. By utilizing a formal decision-making model, the government can deem certain projects as a lost cause and choose to withhold funding. Critics and supporters alike stress the necessity of expanding the environmental budget to provide the best conservation and restoration efforts.\n"}
{"id": "40589785", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40589785", "title": "Electricity sector in South Africa", "text": "Electricity sector in South Africa\n\nThe Electricity sector in South Africa is an important part of the economy in the region.\nEskom is the state-owned electricity provider. A 2016 study compared long term prices of different types of new powerplants.\n\n"}
{"id": "23624536", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23624536", "title": "Energy mix", "text": "Energy mix\n\nThe energy mix is a group of different primary energy sources from which secondary energy for direct use - usually electricity - is produced. Primary energy in the form of fossil fuels is nowadays still mostly used directly for motor-driven vehicles, i.e. transport. Further energy conversion of the co-produced waste heat after burning is not possible.\n\nIn 2007, the global primary energy use corresponded to oil equivalent corresponding to ). According to the International Energy Agency (IEA) 13,6% of that was used by the EU. Within the EU, 75.9% came from fossil fuels, 14.1% from nuclear energy, 7% from biofuels, 2.9 from renewable energy resources.\n\nOverall primary energy consumption in the U.S. in 2015 relied most on petroleum (), natural gas () and coal (). Renewables contributed and nuclear power .\nIn the same year, about 4 million GWh of electricity were generated in the U.S., 67% of which was generated from fossil fuels (coal, natural gas, and < 1% petroleum), 20% from nuclear power, 6% hydropower and 7% other renewables.\n\nWhile the rise of global energy consumption with the global population growth cannot immediately be counteracted, the sustainability of growth can partially be improved by changing the energy mix towards renewables. The main forces in this process are national and transnational energy policy and the energy industry together with their lobbyists.\n\n"}
{"id": "2670571", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2670571", "title": "European Geosciences Union", "text": "European Geosciences Union\n\nThe European Geosciences Union (EGU) is a non-profit international union in the fields of Earth, planetary, and space sciences. The organisation has headquarters in Munich (Germany). Membership is open to individuals who are professionally engaged in or associated with these fields and related studies, including students and retired seniors.\n\nThe EGU publishes 17 open-access scientific journals and a number of other science publications. It also organises a number of topical meetings, as well as education and outreach activities. Its most prominent event is the EGU General Assembly, an annual conference that brings together over 14,000 scientists from all over the world. The meeting’s sessions cover a wide range of topics, including volcanology, planetary exploration, the Earth’s internal structure and atmosphere, climate change, and renewable energies.\n\nThe EGU has 22 scientific divisions that reflect the interdisciplinary nature of the organisation.\n\nThe EGU was established by the merger of the European Geophysical Society (EGS) and the European Union of Geosciences (EUG) on 7 September 2002. Council members of the two organisations came together at Hotel Platzl in Munich, Germany, to sign the Union into existence. The final stages of the merger were completed on 31 December 2003. The EGU founding members were: Jan Backman, Jonathan Bamber, Ray Bates, Günter Blöschl, Lars Clemmensen, Max Coleman, Peter Fabian, Gerald Ganssen, Jean-Pierre Gattuso, David Gee, Fausto Guzzetti, Albrecht Hofmann, Jürgen Kurths, Yves Langevin, John Ludden, Arne Richter, Michael Rycroft, W. Schlager, Roland Schlich, Isabella Premovi Silva, Christopher Spotl, Håkan Svedhem, Hans Thybo, Bert Vermeersen, David Webb, Jerzy Weber, Richard Worden. On 12 February 2004, the EGU signed the Berlin Declaration on Open Access to Knowledge in the Sciences and Humanities.\n\nThe EGU Executive office moved to Munich on 1 August 2010, and expanded by hiring six more staff members in addition to the EGU Executive Secretary, Philippe Courtial. In August 2011, the EGU signed an agreement with the American Geophysical Union (AGU) and with the Aisa Oceania Geosciences Society (AOGS) with the aim to promote the cooperation between the institutions.\n\nThe European Geosciences Union convenes a yearly General Assembly. The first EGU General Assembly took place From 25 to 30 April 2004, in Nice, with the aim to gather together EGU members and other planetary, space and Earth scientists from all around the world. On this occasion the EGU also celebrated researchers for their contribution, with 21 Union and division prizes and medals. The EGU General Assembly moved to Vienna in April 2005 where it has since taken place annually. The assembly is arranged at the Austria Center Vienna. The first EGU co-sponsored geoscience meeting (the first Alexander van Humbolt conference) was held in Guayaquil. Afterwards, the co-sponsored programme expanded into conference series, meetings, workshops and training schools. The EGU Galileo Conferences cycle started in 2015 when the first call for proposals was launched.\n\nAt the 2017 meeting in Vienna, there were 4,849 oral, 11,312 poster presentations and 1,238 interactive content (PICO) presentations. Over 14,000 scientists from 107 countries participated in the conference Abstracts of presentations are published in the \"Geophysical Research Abstracts\" (print: , online: ). The 2018 EGU General Assembly hosted 15,075 scientists from 106 countries participated, of which 53% were under the age of 35 years. Over 17,000 abstracts were presented at the meeting.\n\nThe first EGU newsletter came out in November 2002. The \"Eggs\" magazine became the EGU newsletter after the completing of the merging between EGS and EUG in 2003. The three-monthly newsletter was modernised in late 2012 and both its format and its name were changed in GeoQ. The necessity to gave reports of its activities on a more regular basis, led the EGU to further change its newsletter name (now EGU newsletter) in January 2015. The actual newsletter is an e-mail version, having a monthly frequency. In 2010 the EGU released its official blog, which soon became a quick-to-read source of information about the EGU activities and on research in the Earth, planetary and space sciences fields. The blog has now grown to include division blogs and network blogs. \n\nEGU publishes books and other materials available in paper and online. Since 2001, the EGU and Copernicus Publications have published a growing number of peer-reviewed open-access scientific journals: \n\nIn October 2002 the first EGU journals were published by transferring the property of the EGS publications – \"Advances in Geosciences\" (\"ADGEO\"), \"Annales Geophysicae\" (\"ANGEO\"), \"Atmospheric Chemistry and Physics\" (\"ACP\"), \"Hydrology and Earth System Sciences\" (\"HESS\"), \"Natural Hazards and Earth System Sciences\" (\"NHESS\") and \"Nonlinear Processes in Geophysics\" (\"NPG\") – to the EGU. The open access journals \"Biogeosciences\" (\"BG\") and \"Ocean Sciences\" (\"OS\") had been launched via Copernicus Publications in March and November 2004, respectively. In 2005, EGU launched the open access journals \"Climate of the Past\" (\"CP\") and \"eEarth\" in July and October, respectively through Copernicus Publications. The latter was replaced by \"Solid Earth\" journal in 2009. The open access journals \"The Cryosphere\" (\"TC\") and \"Geoscientific Model Development\" (\"GMD\") were released in 2007 via Copernicus Publications. In June 2007, the EGU launched Imaggeo, an open access database featuring photos and videos relating geosciences. In August 2008, the \"Atmospheric Measurement Techniques\" (\"AMT\") journal was first published, and the journals \"Solid Earth\" (\"SE\") and \"Earth System Dynamics\" (\"ESD\") began publication in February and March 2010 respectively. In 2011, \"Geoscientific Instrumentation, Methods and Data Systems\" (\"GI\") was first published. On 7 April 2013 the open access journals \"Earth Surface Dynamics\" (\"ESurf\") and \"SOIL\" were launched via Copernicus Publications. In April 2018, EGU launched the open access journal \"Geoscience Communication\" (\"GC\") and the compilation \"Encyclopedia of Geosciences\" (\"EG\"), a collection of articles in between traditional review articles and online encyclopediae.\n\n\nThe EGU awards a number of annual medals to recognise scientific achievements. \n\nFour of these medals are at union level: \n\nIn addition there are four Arne Richter Awards for Outstanding Early Career Scientists (formerly Outstanding Young Scientist Award), selected from the Division level Outstanding Early Career Scientists Award Winners.\n\nAt division level there are 29 medals for outstanding scientists. Each year Outstanding Student Poster and PICO Awards are selected for participating divisions.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "57726544", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57726544", "title": "Explorer 50", "text": "Explorer 50\n\nExplorer 50, also known as IMP-J or IMP-8, was a NASA satellite launched to study the magnetosphere. It was the eighth and last in a series of the Interplanetary Monitoring Platform. \n\nExplorer 50 was launched on 23 October 1973 at 02:26:03 UTC, by a Delta 1604 rocket from Cape Canaveral AFS, Florida. The spacecraft functioned nominally until 7 October 2006. The satellite orbited the Earth once every 12 days, at an inclination of 28.6 degrees. Its perigee was 22 earth radii and apogee was 45 earth radii.\n\nExplorer 50 was a drum-shaped spacecraft, across and height, with propulsion Star-17A, instrumented for interplanetary and magnetotail studies of cosmic rays, energetic solar particles, plasma, and electric and magnetic fields. Its initial orbit was more elliptical than intended, with apogee and perigee distances of about 45 earth radii and 25 earth radii. Its eccentricity decreased after launch. Its orbital inclination varied between 0° and about 55° with a periodicity of several years. The spacecraft spin axis was normal to the ecliptic plane, and the spin rate was 22.3 rpm. The data telemetry rate was 1600 bps. The spacecraft was in the solar wind for 7 to 8 days of every 12 days orbit. \n\nTelemetry coverage was 90% in the early years, but only 60-70% through most of the 1980s and early 1990s. Coverage returned to the 90% range in the mid to late 1990's. The objectives of the extended Explorer 50 operations were to provide solar wind parameters as input for magnetospheric studies and as a 1 AU baseline for deep space studies, and to continue solar cycle variation studies with a single set of well-calibrated and understood instruments. In October, 2001, Explorer 50 was terminated as an independent mission. The last useful science data from Explorer 50 was acquired on 7 October 2006.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nPLA (Plasma Faraday Cup Assembly). The objective is to study the positive ions and electrons in the solar wind, transition region, and magnetotail. Parameters derived on a routine basis are proton velocity, number density, and temperature.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "20736288", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20736288", "title": "Fraser Plateau", "text": "Fraser Plateau\n\nThe Fraser Plateau is an intermontane plateau. It is one of the main subdivisions of the Interior Plateau located in the Central Interior of British Columbia.\n\nThe region includes the Cariboo Plateau and Chilcotin Plateau, and the adjoining Marble, Clear and Camelsfoot Ranges on its southwestern edge. \n\nIt is defined as lying between the Bonaparte River on its southeast, beyond which is the Bonaparte or Kamloops Plateau, part of the Thompson Plateau, and by a line formed by the Dean and West Road Rivers on its northwest (the Nechako Plateau lies to the north of the West Road). \n\nAlso included in the Fraser Plateau are the Itcha and Ilgachuz Ranges and the adjoining Rainbow Range, which adjoin the Coast Mountains. \n\nThe Fraser Plateau consists of basaltic lava of the Chilcotin Group, a group of related volcanic rocks that is nearly parallel with the Fraser Plateau.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "12346894", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12346894", "title": "Haurvatat", "text": "Haurvatat\n\nHaurvatat (Avestan: \"𐬵𐬀𐬎𐬬𐬀𐬙𐬁𐬙‎ \") is the Avestan language word for the Zoroastrian concept of \"wholeness\" or \"perfection.\"\nIn post-Gathic Zoroastrianism, Haurvatat was the Amesha Spenta associated with water (\"cf.\" \"apo\"), prosperity, and health.\n\nEtymologically, Avestan \"haurvatat\" derives from an Indo-Iranian root and is linguistically related to Vedic Sanskrit \"sarvatāt\" \"intactness, perfection\". The Indo-Iranian root has in turn Indo-European origins. In Common Era Zoroastrian tradition, Haurvatat appears as Middle Persian \"Hordad\", continuing in New Persian as \"Khordad\". The Iranian civil calendar of 1925, which adopted Zoroastrian calendar month names, has \"Khordad\" as the name of the 3rd month of the year. \n\nThe Avestan language noun \"haurvatat\" is grammatically feminine and in scripture the divinity Haurvatat is a female entity. However, in tradition (K)Hordad was/is considered male; this development is attributed to the loss of grammatical gender in Middle Persian. In \"Isis and Osiris\" 46, Plutarch translates Haurvatat as Πλοῦτος \"ploutos\" \"wealth, riches\" and equates the divinity with \"Plutus,\" the Greek god of riches.\n\nLike the other Amesha Spentas also, Haurvatat is already attested in the Gathas, the oldest texts of the Zoroastrianism and considered to have been composed by Zoroaster himself. And like most other principles, Haurvatat is not unambiguously an entity in those hymns. Unlike four of the other Amesha Spentas, Haurvatat does not have a standing epithet that in later Avesta texts becomes an element of her proper name.\n\nAlready in the Gathas, Haurvatat is closely allied with Ameretat, the Amesha Spenta of \"Immortality\". Addressing Ahura Mazda in \"Yasna\" 34.11, the prophet Zoroaster exclaims that \"both Wholeness and Immortality are for sustenance\" in the Kingdom of God. In the same verse, as also in \"Yasna\" 45.10 and 51.7, parallels are drawn between Ameretat and Haurvatat on the one hand and \"endurance and strength\" on the other.\n\nThe relationship between Ameretat and Haurvatat is carries forward into the Younger Avesta (\"Yasna\" 1.2; 3.1; 4.1; 6.17; 7.26; 8.1 etc.; \"Yasht\" 1.15; 10.92). The Younger Avestan texts allude to their respective guardianships of plant life and water (comparable with the Gathic allusion to sustenence), but these identifications are only properly developed in later tradition (see below). These associations with also reflect the Zoroastrian cosmological model in which each of the Amesha Spentas is identified with one aspect of creation.\n\nThe antithetical counterpart of Haurvatat is demon (\"daeva\") \"Tarshna\" \"thirst,\" while Ameretat's is \"Shud\" \"hunger.\" Ameretat and Haurvatat are the only two Amesha Spentas who are not already assigned an antithetical counterpart in the Gathas. In the eschatological framework of \"Yasht\" 1.25, Ameretat and Haurvatat represent the reward of the righteous after death (\"cf.\" Ashi and \"ashavan\"). Haurvatat and Ameretat will destroy the demons of hunger and thirst at the final renovation of the world (\"Yasht\" 19.95-96).\n\nUnlike Ameretat, Haurvatat has a \"Yasht\" consecrated to her (\"Yasht 4\"), and is invoked as the protector of the seasons and years (\"Yasht\" 4.0, \"Siroza\" 1.6, 2.6). In \"Yasht\" 4.1, Haurvatat is described as having been created by Ahura Mazda for \"the help, joy, comfort, and pleasure of the \"ashavan\".\" The righteous can put demons to flight by invoking the name of Haurvatat (\"Yasht\" 4.2). In \"Yasht\" 4.4, Haurvatat is implored to give mankind the power to withstand the seductive attacks of the \"Pairikas\", the devilish sprites of Angra Mainyu.\n\nThrough the association with plants and water, Ameretat (MP: \"Amurdad\") and Haurvatat (MP: \"Hordad\") are consequently identified with food and drink (\"cf.\" sustenance in the Gathas, above), and traditionally it was out of respect for these two Amesha Spentas (MP: \"Ameshaspand\") that meals were to be taken in silence. In \"Book of Arda Viraf\" 23.6–8, the righteous Viraz sees a man punished in hell \"for consuming Hordad and Amurdad while unlawfully chattering while he chewed.\"\n\nIn the \"Bundahishn\", a Zoroastrian account of creation completed in the 12th century, Ameretat and Haurvatat appear—together with Spenta Armaiti (MP: \"Spendarmad\"), the third female Amesha Spenta—on the left hand of Ahura Mazda (\"Bundahishn\" 26.8). Throughout Zoroastrian scripture and tradition, these three principles are most consistently identified with the creations that they represent: respectively plant life, water, and earth. In \"Arda Viraf\" 35.13, the three daughters of Zoroaster are described to be in the image of Armaiti, Ameretat, and Haurvatat. \n\nIn the hierarchy of \"yazata\"s, Haurvatat has as her assistants or cooperators (\"hamkars\") three lesser \"yazata\"s: \"Vata-Vayu\" of the wind and atmosphere, \"Manthra Spenta\" of \"bountiful spells\" and the Fravashis, the hordes of guardian spirits.\n\nIn the day-name and month-name dedications of the Zoroastrian calendar (that makes the basis for the Jalali calendar), the sixth day of the month and third month of the year are named after Haurvatat/Hordad/Khordad/Xordad and are under her protection. The Iranian civil calendar of 1925 reinstated Zoroastrian month-name conventions and hence also has \"Khordad\" as the third month of the year, beginning at May 22 (21. in leap years). This calendar is thus the one with which western astrology is most accurately corresponding. Khordad confers exactly with Gemini, the passage of the sun through the ecliptical segment of 60 - 90 degrees from vernal equinox.\n\nHaurvatat-Ameretat (Pahlavi \"hrwdʼd\" \"ʼmwrdʼd\") appears in Sogdian language texts as \"hrwwt mrwwt\". A relationship to Armenian \"hawrot\" \"mawrot\" has been suggested but is not confirmed. According to Islam tradition, Al-Quran mentions two entities sent to Babil (Babylon) named Harut and Marut, to test people faith because they teach witchcraft and sorcery. These entities stated that they were sent to test the faith of the people before teaching them.\n\n"}
{"id": "340757", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=340757", "title": "Internal energy", "text": "Internal energy\n\nIn thermodynamics, the internal energy of a system is the energy contained within the system, excluding the kinetic energy of motion, of the system as a whole and the potential energy of the system as a whole due to external force fields. It keeps account of the gains and losses of energy of the system that are due to changes in its internal state.\n\nThe internal energy of a system can be changed by transfers of matter or heat or by doing work. When matter transfer is prevented by impermeable containing walls, the system is said to be closed. Then the first law of thermodynamics states that the increase in internal energy is equal to the total heat added plus the work done on the system by its surroundings. If the containing walls pass neither matter nor energy, the system is said to be isolated and its internal energy cannot change. The first law of thermodynamics may be regarded as establishing the existence of the internal energy.\n\nThe internal energy is one of the two cardinal state functions of the state variables of a thermodynamic system.\n\nThe internal energy of a given state of a system cannot be directly measured. It is determined through some convenient chain of thermodynamic operations and thermodynamic processes by which the given state can be prepared, starting with a reference state which is customarily assigned a reference value for its internal energy. Such a chain, or path, can be theoretically described by certain extensive state variables of the system, namely, its entropy, , its volume, , and its mole numbers, }. The internal energy, , is a function of those. Sometimes, to that list are appended other extensive state variables, for example electric dipole moment. For practical considerations in thermodynamics and engineering it is rarely necessary or convenient to consider all energies belonging to the total intrinsic energy of a system, such as the energy given by the equivalence of mass. Customarily, thermodynamic descriptions include only items relevant to the processes under study. Thermodynamics is chiefly concerned only with \"changes\" in the internal energy, not with its absolute value.\n\nThe internal energy is a state function of a system, because its value depends only on the current state of the system and not on the path taken or processes undergone to prepare it. It is an extensive quantity. It is the one and only \"cardinal\" thermodynamic potential. Through it, by use of Legendre transforms, are mathematically constructed the other thermodynamic potentials. These are functions of variable lists in which some extensive variables are replaced by their conjugate intensive variables. Legendre transformation is necessary because mere substitutive replacement of extensive variables by intensive variables does not lead to thermodynamic potentials. Mere substitution leads to a less informative formula, an equation of state.\n\nThough it is a macroscopic quantity, internal energy can be explained in microscopic terms by two theoretical virtual components. One is the microscopic kinetic energy due to the microscopic motion of the system's particles (translations, rotations, vibrations). The other is the potential energy associated with the microscopic forces, including the chemical bonds, between the particles; this is for ordinary physics and chemistry. If thermonuclear reactions are specified as a topic of concern, then the static rest mass energy of the constituents of matter is also counted. There is no simple universal relation between these quantities of microscopic energy and the quantities of energy gained or lost by the system in work, heat, or matter transfer.\n\nThe SI unit of energy is the joule (J). Sometimes it is convenient to use a corresponding density called \"specific internal energy\" which is internal energy per unit of mass (kilogram) of the system in question. The SI unit of specific internal energy is J/kg. If the specific internal energy is expressed relative to units of amount of substance (mol), then it is referred to as \"molar internal energy\" and the unit is J/mol.\n\nFrom the standpoint of statistical mechanics, the internal energy is equal to the ensemble average of the sum of the microscopic kinetic and potential energies of the system.\n\nThe internal energy, , expresses the thermodynamics of a system in the \"energy-language\", or in the \"energy representation\". Its arguments are exclusively extensive variables of state. Alongside the internal energy, the other cardinal function of state of a thermodynamic system is its entropy, as a function, , of the same list of extensive variables of state, except that the entropy, , is replaced in the list by the internal energy, . It expresses the \"entropy representation\".\n\nEach cardinal function is a monotonic function of each of its \"natural\" or \"canonical\" variables. Each provides its \"characteristic\" or \"fundamental\" equation, for example , that by itself contains all thermodynamic information about the system. The fundamental equations for the two cardinal functions can in principle be interconverted by solving, for example, for , to get .\n\nIn contrast, Legendre transforms are necessary to derive fundamental equations for other thermodynamic potentials and Massieu functions. The entropy as a function only of extensive state variables is the one and only \"cardinal function\" of state for the generation of Massieu functions. It is not itself customarily designated a 'Massieu function', though rationally it might be thought of as such, corresponding to the term 'thermodynamic potential', which includes the internal energy.\n\nFor real and practical systems, explicit expressions of the fundamental equations are almost always unavailable, but the functional relations exist in principle. Formal, in principle, manipulations of them are valuable for the understanding of thermodynamics.\n\nThe internal energy of a given state of the system is determined relative to that of a standard state of the system, by adding up the macroscopic transfers of energy that accompany a change of state from the reference state to the given state:\nwhere denotes the difference between the internal energy of the given state and that of the reference state,\nand the are the various energies transferred to the system in the steps from the reference state to the given state.\nIt is the energy needed to create the given state of the system from the reference state.\n\nFrom a non-relativistic microscopic point of view, it may be divided into microscopic potential energy, , and microscopic kinetic energy, , components:\n\nThe microscopic kinetic energy of a system arises as the sum of the motions of all the system's particles with respect to the center-of-mass frame, whether it be the motion of atoms, molecules, atomic nuclei, electrons, or other particles. The microscopic potential energy algebraic summative components are those of the chemical and nuclear particle bonds, and the physical force fields within the system, such as due to internal induced electric or magnetic dipole moment, as well as the energy of deformation of solids (stress-strain). Usually, the split into microscopic kinetic and potential energies is outside the scope of macroscopic thermodynamics.\n\nInternal energy does not include the energy due to motion or location of a system as a whole. That is to say, it excludes any kinetic or potential energy the body may have because of its motion or location in external gravitational, electrostatic, or electromagnetic fields. It does, however, include the contribution of such a field to the energy due to the coupling of the internal degrees of freedom of the object with the field. In such a case, the field is included in the thermodynamic description of the object in the form of an additional external parameter.\n\nFor practical considerations in thermodynamics or engineering, it is rarely necessary, convenient, nor even possible, to consider all energies belonging to the total intrinsic energy of a sample system, such as the energy given by the equivalence of mass. Typically, descriptions only include components relevant to the system under study. Indeed, in most systems under consideration, especially through thermodynamics, it is impossible to calculate the total internal energy. Therefore, a convenient null reference point may be chosen for the internal energy.\n\nThe internal energy is an extensive property: it depends on the size of the system, or on the amount of substance it contains.\n\nAt any temperature greater than absolute zero, microscopic potential energy and kinetic energy are constantly converted into one another, but the sum remains constant in an isolated system (cf. table). In the classical picture of thermodynamics, kinetic energy vanishes at zero temperature and the internal energy is purely potential energy. However, quantum mechanics has demonstrated that even at zero temperature particles maintain a residual energy of motion, the zero point energy. A system at absolute zero is merely in its quantum-mechanical ground state, the lowest energy state available. At absolute zero a system of given composition has attained its minimum attainable entropy.\n\nThe microscopic kinetic energy portion of the internal energy gives rise to the temperature of the system. Statistical mechanics relates the pseudo-random kinetic energy of individual particles to the mean kinetic energy of the entire ensemble of particles comprising a system. Furthermore, it relates the mean microscopic kinetic energy to the macroscopically observed empirical property that is expressed as temperature of the system. This energy is often referred to as the \"thermal energy\" of a system, relating this energy, like the temperature, to the human experience of hot and cold.\n\nStatistical mechanics considers any system to be statistically distributed across an ensemble of \"N\" microstates. Each microstate has an energy \"E\" and is associated with a probability \"p\". The internal energy is the mean value of the system's total energy, i.e., the sum of all microstate energies, each weighted by their probability of occurrence:\nThis is the statistical expression of the first law of thermodynamics.\n\nThermodynamics is chiefly concerned only with the changes, , in internal energy.\n\nFor a closed system, with matter transfer excluded, the changes in internal energy are due to heat transfer and due to work. The latter can be split into two kinds, pressure-volume work , and frictional and other kinds, such as electrical polarization, which do not alter the volume of the system, and are called isochoric, . Accordingly, the internal energy change for a process may be written\n\nWhen a closed system receives energy as heat, this energy increases the internal energy. It is distributed between microscopic kinetic and microscopic potential energies. In general, thermodynamics does not trace this distribution. In an ideal gas all of the extra energy results in a temperature increase, as it is stored solely as microscopic kinetic energy; such heating is said to be \"sensible\".\n\nA second mechanism of change of internal energy of a closed system is the doing of work on the system, either in mechanical form by changing pressure or volume, or by other perturbations, such as directing an electric current through the system.\n\nIf the system is not closed, the third mechanism that can increase the internal energy is transfer of matter into the system. This increase, cannot be split into heat and work components. If the system is so set up physically that heat and work can be done on it by pathways separate from and independent of matter transfer, then the transfers of energy add to change the internal energy:\n\nIf a system undergoes certain phase transformations while being heated, such as melting and vaporization, it may be observed that the temperature of the system does not change until the entire sample has completed the transformation. The energy introduced into the system while the temperature did not change is called a \"latent energy\", or latent heat, in contrast to sensible heat, which is associated with temperature change.\n\nThermodynamics often uses the concept of the ideal gas for teaching purposes, and as an approximation for working systems. The ideal gas is a gas of particles considered as point objects that interact only by elastic collisions and fill a volume such that their free mean path between collisions is much larger than their diameter. Such systems are approximated by the monatomic gases, helium and the other noble gases. Here the kinetic energy consists only of the translational energy of the individual atoms. Monatomic particles do not rotate or vibrate, and are not electronically excited to higher energies except at very high temperatures.\n\nTherefore, internal energy changes in an ideal gas may be described solely by changes in its kinetic energy. Kinetic energy is simply the internal energy of the perfect gas and depends entirely on its pressure, volume and thermodynamic temperature.\n\nThe internal energy of an ideal gas is proportional to its mass (number of moles) \"n\" and to its temperature \"T\"\n\nwhere \"c\" is the heat capacity (at constant volume) of the gas. The internal energy may be written as a function of the three extensive properties \"S\", \"V\", \"n\" (entropy, volume, mass) in the following way \n\nwhere \"const\" is an arbitrary positive constant and where \"R\" is the universal gas constant. It is easily seen that \"U\" is a linearly homogeneous function of the three variables (that is, it is \"extensive\" in these variables), and that it is weakly convex. Knowing temperature and pressure to be the derivatives \nformula_9 formula_10 the ideal gas law formula_11 immediately follows.\n\nThis above summation of all components of change in internal energy assume that a positive energy denotes heat added to the system or work done on the system, while a negative energy denotes work of the system on the environment.\n\nTypically this relationship is expressed in infinitesimal terms using the differentials of each term. Only the internal energy is an exact differential. For a system undergoing only thermodynamics processes, i.e. a closed system that can exchange only heat and work, the change in the internal energy is\nwhich constitutes the first law of thermodynamics. It may be expressed in terms of other thermodynamic parameters. Each term is composed of an intensive variable (a generalized force) and its conjugate infinitesimal extensive variable (a generalized displacement).\n\nFor example, for a non-viscous fluid, the mechanical work done on the system may be related to the pressure \"p\" and volume \"V\". The pressure is the intensive generalized force, while the volume is the extensive generalized displacement:\nThis defines the direction of work, \"W\", to be energy flow from the working system to the surroundings, indicated by a negative term. Taking the direction of heat transfer \"Q\" to be into the working fluid and assuming a reversible process, the heat is\n\nand the change in internal energy becomes\n\nThe expression relating changes in internal energy to changes in temperature and volume is\n\nThis is useful if the equation of state is known.\n\nIn case of an ideal gas, we can derive that formula_19, i.e. the internal energy of an ideal gas can be written as a function that depends only on the temperature.\n\nThe expression relating changes in internal energy to changes in temperature and volume is\n\nThe equation of state is the ideal gas law\n\nSolve for pressure:\n\nSubstitute in to internal energy expression:\n\nTake the derivative of pressure with respect to temperature:\n\nReplace:\n\nAnd simplify:\n\nTo express dU in terms of dT and dV, the term\n\nis substituted in the fundamental thermodynamic relation\n\nThis gives:\n\nThe term formula_30 is the heat capacity at constant volume formula_31\n\nThe partial derivative of \"S\" with respect to \"V\" can be evaluated if the equation of state is known. From the fundamental thermodynamic relation, it follows that the differential of the Helmholtz free energy A is given by:\n\nThe symmetry of second derivatives of \"A\" with respect to \"T\" and \"V\" yields the Maxwell relation:\n\nThis gives the expression above.\nWhen dealing with fluids or solids, an expression in terms of the temperature and pressure is usually more useful:\n\nwhere it is assumed that the heat capacity at constant pressure is related to the heat capacity at constant volume according to:\n\nThe partial derivative of the pressure with respect to temperature at constant volume can be expressed in terms of the coefficient of thermal expansion \n\nand the isothermal compressibility\n\nby writing:\n\nand equating dV to zero and solving for the ratio dp/dT. This gives:\n\nSubstituting (2) and (3) in (1) gives the above expression.\nThe internal pressure is defined as a partial derivative of the internal energy with respect to the volume at constant temperature:\n\nIn addition to including the entropy \"S\" and volume \"V\" terms in the internal energy, a system is often described also in terms of the number of particles or chemical species it contains:\n\nwhere \"N\" are the molar amounts of constituents of type \"j\" in the system. The internal energy is an extensive function of the extensive variables \"S\", \"V\", and the amounts \"N\", the internal energy may be written as a linearly homogeneous function of first degree:\nwhere α is a factor describing the growth of the system. The differential internal energy may be written as\nformula_43\n\nwhich shows (or defines) temperature \"T\" to be the partial derivative of \"U\" with respect to entropy \"S\" and pressure \"p\" to be the negative of the similar derivative with respect to volume \"V\"\nformula_9\nformula_10\n\nand where the coefficients formula_46 are the chemical potentials for the components of type i in the system. The chemical potentials are defined as the partial derivatives of the energy with respect to the variations in composition:\nAs conjugate variables to the composition formula_48, the chemical potentials are intensive properties, intrinsically characteristic of the qualitative nature of the system, and not proportional to its extent. Under conditions of constant \"T\" and \"p\", because of the extensive nature of U and its independent variables, using Euler's homogeneous function theorem, the differential d\"U\" may be integrated and yields an expression for the internal energy:\n\nThe sum over the composition of the system is the Gibbs free energy:\nthat arises from changing the composition of the system at constant temperature and pressure. For a single component system, the chemical potential equals the Gibbs energy per amount of substance, i.e. particles or moles according to the original definition of the unit for formula_48.\n\nFor an elastic medium the mechanical energy term of the internal energy must be replaced by the more general expression involving the stress formula_52 and strain formula_53. The infinitesimal statement is:\n\nwhere Einstein notation has been used for the tensors, in which there is a summation over all repeated indices in the product term. \nThe Euler theorem yields for the internal energy:\n\nFor a linearly elastic material, the stress is related to the strain by:\n\nwhere the \"C\" are the components of the 4th-rank elastic constant tensor of the medium.\n\nJames Joule studied the relationship between heat, work, and temperature. He observed that if he did mechanical work on a fluid, such as water, by agitating the fluid, its temperature increased. He proposed that the mechanical work he was doing on the system was converted to \"thermal energy\". Specifically, he found that 4185.5 joules of energy were needed to raise the temperature of a kilogram of water by one degree Celsius.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "6217361", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6217361", "title": "List of Sites of Special Scientific Interest in East Perth", "text": "List of Sites of Special Scientific Interest in East Perth\n\nThe following is a list of Sites of Special Scientific Interest in the East Perth Area of Search, in Scotland. For other areas, see List of SSSIs by Area of Search.\n\n"}
{"id": "39228803", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39228803", "title": "List of South-West Indian Ocean cyclones before 1963", "text": "List of South-West Indian Ocean cyclones before 1963\n\nThe following is a list of South-West Indian Ocean tropical cyclones before 1963.\n\nOn January 11, 1848, the first tropical cyclone on record was observed in the basin.\n\n1200 deaths - 50,000 homeless. The most dramatic and the most devastating cyclone in the history of the country. Sugar production fell 42%. A third of the city of Port Louis was destroyed in a few hours.\n\nOn February 4, a cyclone hit Vohemar in northeastern Madagascar, producing a minimum pressure of 972 mbar (28.69 inHg).\n\nOn December 14, a cyclone moved through the Comoros, causing damage to the island's vanilla and coffee plantations. Crop production declined by 9% as a result of the storm, causing food shortages after little rainfall in 1905. On December 16, 1905, another cyclone moved struck the island group, killing 30 people and injuring 150. Responding to the two cyclones, the French government provided Fr.360,000 to the island group toward rebuilding and assistance for residents.\n\nConsidered the strongest to strike Madagascar for at least 67 years, a cyclone hit the eastern portion of the country on March 3, potentially causing as many as 500 deaths.\n\nOn January 22, a tropical disturbance formed northeast of Mauritius. Initially it moved to the southwest, but turned to the south on January 26. The next day, the storm passed just west of Réunion with winds estimated at around 300 km/h (187 mph), and later dissipated on January 28. The storm killed about 100 people and injured hundreds. About 60% of the island's houses were damaged or destroyed, and about 70% of the crops were destroyed.\n\nLasting from December 1957 until early in January 1958, Cyclone Astrid struck Mozambique and later produced torrential rainfall in northern South Africa, reaching over .\n\nA series of cyclones killed 100 people in Madagascar, causing widespread flooding.\n\nCyclone Alix struck Mauritius Island in February 1960. The island suffered a devastating wind from 160 km/h to 200 km/h for nearly 20 hours.\n\nCarol directly hit Mauritius where its eye passed over the island and it is assumed to be the most powerful cyclone ever recorded in the South-West Indian Ocean with wind gust of 160 km/h to 256 km/h, making at least 300,000 people homeless and destroying 40% of Mauritian main economy at that time, which was the sugar cane crop. It left 42 deaths.\n\nCyclone Jenny started to develop on 26 February 1962 at around 22hr , moving in a southeasterly direction. On 27 February 1962, the cyclone passed 30 km off the north coast of Mauritius with a maximum wind speed of 235 km/h, causing 14 deaths, injuring hundreds, leaving 8,000 homeless, and considerable damage in the northern portion of the island. Afterwards, Cyclone Jenny moved towards Mauritius at an average speed of 40 km/h. Next, it moved to the north of Reunion Island on 28 February 1962, where it killed 37 people and injured a further 150.\n\n"}
{"id": "51534778", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51534778", "title": "List of asteroid close approaches to Earth in 2009", "text": "List of asteroid close approaches to Earth in 2009\n\nBelow is the list of asteroid close approaches to Earth in 2009.\n\nA list of known near-Earth asteroid close approaches less than 1 lunar distance (384,400 km or 0.00256 AU) from Earth in 2009.\n\nAn example list of near-Earth asteroids that passed more than 1 lunar distance (384,400 km or 0.00256 AU) from Earth in 2009.\n\n"}
{"id": "30549338", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30549338", "title": "List of exoplanetary host stars", "text": "List of exoplanetary host stars\n\nThe following is a list of exoplanetary host stars. The table contains information about the coordinates, spectral and physical properties, and number of confirmed planets. The two most important stellar properties are mass and metallicity because they determine how these planetary systems form. Stars of higher mass and metallicity tend to have more numerous and more massive planets.\n\nMost of the stars below are solar-type, mainly in the spectral classes F, G, and K, because astronomers tend to look for planets around stars similar to the Sun. Others are giants, which have used up all the hydrogen in their cores. Finding planets around giant stars gives clues as to how planetary systems evolve and how the properties of planets change with the evolution of the stars.\n\nAs of April 2018, there are 2816 stars with at least one confirmed planet, of which 628 stars have two or more confirmed planets; that is, 22% of all confirmed exoplanetary host stars have two or more confirmed planets.\n\nAs of 2018, the star with the most confirmed planets is Kepler-90, with eight planets, although HD 10180 may have nine (two are unconfirmed). The most massive exoplanetary host star is Omicron Ursae Majoris (), while the least massive is 2M J044144 (). The most metal-rich star is NN Serpentis (1.744, 55.5 × Sun), while the most metal-poor is BD+20°2457 (−0.999, 0.100 × Sun). The nearest exoplanetary host star is Proxima Centauri (4.25 ly), while the most distant is NY Virginis (26940 ly). Visually, the brightest exoplanetary host star seen from Earth is Pollux (1.15), while the faintest is OGLE-2005-BLG-390L (27.98).\n\n \"A yellow row denotes a star with multiple planets.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "921245", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=921245", "title": "List of interstellar and circumstellar molecules", "text": "List of interstellar and circumstellar molecules\n\nThis is a list of molecules that have been detected in the interstellar medium and circumstellar envelopes, grouped by the number of component atoms. The chemical formula is listed for each detected compound, along with any ionized form that has also been observed.\n\nThe molecules listed below were detected by spectroscopy. Their spectral features are generated by transitions of component electrons between different energy levels, or by rotational or vibrational spectra. Detection usually occurs in radio, microwave, or infrared portions of the spectrum.\n\nInterstellar molecules are formed by chemical reactions within very sparse interstellar or circumstellar clouds of dust and gas. Usually this occurs when a molecule becomes ionized, often as the result of an interaction with a cosmic ray. This positively charged molecule then draws in a nearby reactant by electrostatic attraction of the neutral molecule's electrons. Molecules can also be generated by reactions between neutral atoms and molecules, although this process is generally slower. The dust plays a critical role of shielding the molecules from the ionizing effect of ultraviolet radiation emitted by stars.\n\nThe chemistry of life may have begun shortly after the Big Bang, 13.8 billion years ago, during a habitable epoch when the Universe was only 10–17 million years old.\n\nThe first carbon-containing molecule detected in the interstellar medium was the methylidyne radical (CH) in 1937. From the early 1970s it was becoming evident that interstellar dust consisted of a large component of more complex organic molecules (COMs), probably polymers. Chandra Wickramasinghe proposed the existence of polymeric composition based on the molecule formaldehyde (HCO).\nFred Hoyle and Chandra Wickramasinghe later proposed the identification of bicyclic aromatic compounds from an analysis of the ultraviolet extinction absorption at 2175 Å, thus demonstrating the existence of polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbon molecules in space.\n\nIn 2004, scientists reported detecting the spectral signatures of anthracene and pyrene in the ultraviolet light emitted by the Red Rectangle nebula (no other such complex molecules had ever been found before in outer space). This discovery was considered a confirmation of a hypothesis that as nebulae of the same type as the Red Rectangle approach the ends of their lives, convection currents cause carbon and hydrogen in the nebulae's core to get caught in stellar winds, and radiate outward. As they cool, the atoms supposedly bond to each other in various ways and eventually form particles of a million or more atoms. The scientists inferred that since they discovered polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbons (PAHs) — which may have been vital in the formation of early life on Earth — in a nebula, by necessity they must originate in nebulae.\n\nIn 2010, fullerenes (or \"buckyballs\") were detected in nebulae. Fullerenes have been implicated in the origin of life; according to astronomer Letizia Stanghellini, \"It's possible that buckyballs from outer space provided seeds for life on Earth.\"\n\nIn October 2011, scientists found using spectroscopy that cosmic dust contains complex organic compounds (\"amorphous organic solids with a mixed aromatic-aliphatic structure\") that could be created naturally, and rapidly, by stars. The compounds are so complex that their chemical structures resemble the makeup of coal and petroleum; such chemical complexity was previously thought to arise only from living organisms. These observations suggest that organic compounds introduced on Earth by interstellar dust particles could serve as basic ingredients for life due to their surface-catalytic activities. One of the scientists suggested that these compounds may have been related to the development of life on Earth and said that, \"If this is the case, life on Earth may have had an easier time getting started as these organics can serve as basic ingredients for life.\"\n\nIn August 2012, astronomers at Copenhagen University reported the detection of a specific sugar molecule, glycolaldehyde, in a distant star system. The molecule was found around the protostellar binary \"IRAS 16293-2422\", which is located 400 light years from Earth. Glycolaldehyde is needed to form ribonucleic acid, or RNA, which is similar in function to DNA. This finding suggests that complex organic molecules may form in stellar systems prior to the formation of planets, eventually arriving on young planets early in their formation.\n\nIn September 2012, NASA scientists reported that PAHs, subjected to interstellar medium (ISM) conditions, are transformed, through hydrogenation, oxygenation, and hydroxylation, to more complex organics — \"a step along the path toward amino acids and nucleotides, the raw materials of proteins and DNA, respectively\". Further, as a result of these transformations, the PAHs lose their spectroscopic signature which could be one of the reasons \"for the lack of PAH detection in interstellar ice grains, particularly the outer regions of cold, dense clouds or the upper molecular layers of protoplanetary disks.\"\n\nPAHs are found everywhere in deep space and, in June 2013, PAHs were detected in the upper atmosphere of Titan, the largest moon of the planet Saturn.\n\nIn 2013, Dwayne Heard at the University of Leeds suggested that quantum mechanical tunneling could explain a reaction his group observed taking place, at a significantly higher than expected rate, between cold (around 63 kelvins) hydroxyl and methanol molecules, apparently bypassing intramolecular energy barriers which would have to be overcome by thermal energy or ionization events for the same rate to exist at warmer temperatures. The proposed tunneling mechanism may help explain the common observation of fairly complex molecules (up to tens of atoms) in interstellar space.\n\nA particularly large and rich region for detecting interstellar molecules is Sagittarius B2 (Sgr B2). This giant molecular cloud lies near the center of the Milky Way galaxy and is a frequent target for new searches. About half of the molecules listed below were first found near Sgr B2, and nearly every other molecule has since been detected in this feature. A rich source of investigation for circumstellar molecules is the relatively nearby star CW Leonis (IRC +10216), where about 50 compounds have been identified.\n\nIn March 2015, NASA scientists reported that, for the first time, complex DNA and RNA organic compounds of life, including uracil, cytosine and thymine, have been formed in the laboratory under outer space conditions, using starting chemicals, such as pyrimidine, found in meteorites. Pyrimidine, like polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbons (PAHs), the most carbon-rich chemical found in the Universe, may have been formed in red giants or in interstellar dust and gas clouds, according to the scientists.\n\nIn October 2016, astronomers reported that the very basic chemical ingredients of life—the carbon-hydrogen molecule (CH, or methylidyne radical), the carbon-hydrogen positive ion (CH cation) and the carbon ion (C cation)—are the result, in large part, of ultraviolet light from stars, rather than in other ways, such as the result of turbulent events related to supernovae and young stars, as thought earlier.\n\nTo explain the observed ratios of isomeric compounds, the minimum energy principle has been used. In the majority of cases, it explains that some organic entities have greater abundance than their isomers due to the lower total energies of the first one. However, a few exceptions where the principle fails are also known.\n\nAnother approach ignores energy and deals only with the molecular complexity estimated by the information entropy index. It speculates that the points of several natural compounds (urea, pyrimidine, dihydroxyacetone, uracil, cytosine, glycine, and alanine) fall into the range of the values typical for the known interstellar molecules that indicates high probability of their detection in interstellar environment. Additionally the molecules with maximal information entropy, i.e. the most complex compounds, make up approximately a half of the interstellar set and their percentage is decreased with the size. This trend may be associated with the different stabilities of the molecules with uniform (usually more stable) and diversified (usually less stable) chemical structures, so the detectable molecules with a large size must possess symmetric structure more probably than non-symmetric. The remarkable detection of low-entropy (highly symmetric) fullerene molecules supports this assumption. It is also noted that information entropy reflects the depth of hydrogenation of interstellar entities: the molecules with maximal information entropy are hydrogen-poor whereas the others are mainly hydrogen-rich.\n\nThe following tables list molecules that have been detected in the interstellar medium, grouped by the number of component atoms. If there is no entry in the molecule column, only the ionized form has been detected. For molecules where no designation was given in the scientific literature, that field is left empty. Mass is given in atomic mass units. The total number of unique species, including distinct ionization states, is listed in parentheses in each section header.\n\nMost of the molecules detected so far are organic. Only one inorganic species has been observed in molecules which contain at least five atoms, SiH. Larger molecules have so far all had at least one carbon atom, with no N−N or O−O bonds.\n\nThese molecules all contain one or more deuterium atoms, a heavier isotope of hydrogen.\nEvidence for the existence of the following molecules has been reported in scientific literature, but the detections are either described as tentative by the authors, or have been challenged by other researchers. They await independent confirmation.\n\n"}
{"id": "46511438", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46511438", "title": "List of oil fields in Libya claimed by ISIL", "text": "List of oil fields in Libya claimed by ISIL\n\nOil fields claimed by ISIL in the alleged controlled regions are listed on this page (as of March 2015):\n\n"}
{"id": "33064684", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33064684", "title": "List of research institutes in Seattle", "text": "List of research institutes in Seattle\n\nResearch institutes in Seattle include universities, corporations, nonprofit organizations, and other research groups doing research in Seattle.\n\n"}
{"id": "7925929", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7925929", "title": "List of tornadoes in the April 6–8, 2006 tornado outbreak", "text": "List of tornadoes in the April 6–8, 2006 tornado outbreak\n\nThis is a list of the tornadoes which occurred during the April 6–8, 2006 tornado outbreak.\n\n"}
{"id": "18575923", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18575923", "title": "Melt inclusion", "text": "Melt inclusion\n\nA melt inclusion is a small parcel or \"blobs\" of melt(s) that is entrapped by crystals growing in magma and eventually forming igneous rocks. In many respects it is analogous to a fluid inclusion. \n\nMelt inclusions are generally small - most are less than 80 micrometres across (a micrometre is one thousandth of a millimeter, or about 0.00004 inches). They may contain a number of different constituents, including glass (which represents melt that has been quenched by rapid cooling), small crystals and a separate vapour-rich bubble. They occur in the crystals that can be found in igneous rocks, such as for example quartz, feldspar, olivine, pyroxene, nepheline, magnetite, perovskite and apatite. Melt inclusions can be found in both volcanic and plutonic rocks. In addition, melt inclusions can contain immiscible (non-miscible) melt phases. Their study is an exceptional way to find direct evidences for presence of two or more melts at entrapment.\n\nAlthough they are small, melt inclusions can provide an abundance of useful information. Using microscopic observations and a range of chemical microanalysis techniques geochemists and igneous petrologists can obtain a range of unique information from melt inclusions. The most common uses of melt inclusions is studying the composition and compositional evolution of magmas existed in the history of specific magma systems. This is because inclusions can act like \"fossils\" - trapping and preserving these melts before they are modified by later processes. In addition, because they are trapped at high pressures (P) and temperatures (T) many melt inclusions also provide important information about the entrapping conditions (P-T) and their volatile content (such as HO, CO, S and Cl) that drive explosive volcanic eruptions.\n\nHenry Clifton Sorby, in 1858, was the first to document microscopic melt inclusions in crystals. The study of melt inclusions has been driven more recently by the development of sophisticated chemical analysis techniques. Scientists from the former Soviet Union lead the study of melt inclusions in the decades after World War II, and developed methods for heating melt inclusions under a microscope, so changes could be directly observed.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "19937", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19937", "title": "Meteorite", "text": "Meteorite\n\nA meteorite is a solid piece of debris from an object, such as a comet, asteroid, or meteoroid, that originates in outer space and survives its passage through the atmosphere to reach the surface of a planet or moon. When the object enters the atmosphere, various factors such as friction, pressure, and chemical interactions with the atmospheric gases cause it to heat up and radiate that energy. It then becomes a meteor and forms a fireball, also known as a shooting star or falling star; astronomers call the brightest examples \"bolides\". Meteorites vary greatly in size. For geologists, a bolide is a meteorite large enough to create a crater.\n\nMeteorites that are recovered after being observed as they transit the atmosphere and impact the Earth are called meteorite falls. All others are known as meteorite finds. , there were about 1,412 witnessed falls that have specimens in the world's collections. , there are more than 59,200 well-documented meteorite finds.\n\nMeteorites have traditionally been divided into three broad categories: stony meteorites that are rocks, mainly composed of silicate minerals; iron meteorites that are largely composed of metallic iron-nickel; and stony-iron meteorites that contain large amounts of both metallic and rocky material. Modern classification schemes divide meteorites into groups according to their structure, chemical and isotopic composition and mineralogy. Meteorites smaller than 2 mm are classified as micrometeorites. Extraterrestrial meteorites are such objects that have impacted other celestial bodies, whether or not they have passed through an atmosphere. They have been found on the Moon and Mars.\n\nMeteorites are always named for the places they were found, usually a nearby town or geographic feature. In cases where many meteorites were found in one place, the name may be followed by a number or letter (e.g., Allan Hills 84001 or Dimmitt (b)). The name designated by the Meteoritical Society is used by scientists, catalogers, and most collectors.\n\nMost meteoroids disintegrate when entering the Earth's atmosphere. Usually, five to ten a year are observed to fall and are subsequently recovered and made known to scientists. Few meteorites are large enough to create large impact craters. Instead, they typically arrive at the surface at their terminal velocity and, at most, create a small pit.\n\nLarge meteoroids may strike the earth with a significant fraction of their escape velocity (second cosmic velocity), leaving behind a hypervelocity impact crater. The kind of crater will depend on the size, composition, degree of fragmentation, and incoming angle of the impactor. The force of such collisions has the potential to cause widespread destruction. The most frequent hypervelocity cratering events on the Earth are caused by iron meteoroids, which are most easily able to transit the atmosphere intact. Examples of craters caused by iron meteoroids include Barringer Meteor Crater, Odessa Meteor Crater, Wabar craters, and Wolfe Creek crater; iron meteorites are found in association with all of these craters. In contrast, even relatively large stony or icy bodies like small comets or asteroids, up to millions of tons, are disrupted in the atmosphere, and do not make impact craters. Although such disruption events are uncommon, they can cause a considerable concussion to occur; the famed Tunguska event probably resulted from such an incident. Very large stony objects, hundreds of meters in diameter or more, weighing tens of millions of tons or more, can reach the surface and cause large craters, but are very rare. Such events are generally so energetic that the impactor is completely destroyed, leaving no meteorites. (The very first example of a stony meteorite found in association with a large impact crater, the Morokweng crater in South Africa, was reported in May 2006.)\nSeveral phenomena are well documented during witnessed meteorite falls too small to produce hypervelocity craters. The fireball that occurs as the meteoroid passes through the atmosphere can appear to be very bright, rivaling the sun in intensity, although most are far dimmer and may not even be noticed during daytime. Various colors have been reported, including yellow, green, and red. Flashes and bursts of light can occur as the object breaks up. Explosions, detonations, and rumblings are often heard during meteorite falls, which can be caused by sonic booms as well as shock waves resulting from major fragmentation events. These sounds can be heard over wide areas, with a radius of a hundred or more kilometers. Whistling and hissing sounds are also sometimes heard, but are poorly understood. Following passage of the fireball, it is not unusual for a dust trail to linger in the atmosphere for several minutes.\nAs meteoroids are heated during atmospheric entry, their surfaces melt and experience ablation. They can be sculpted into various shapes during this process, sometimes resulting in shallow thumbprint-like indentations on their surfaces called regmaglypts. If the meteoroid maintains a fixed orientation for some time, without tumbling, it may develop a conical \"nose cone\" or \"heat shield\" shape. As it decelerates, eventually the molten surface layer solidifies into a thin fusion crust, which on most meteorites is black (on some achondrites, the fusion crust may be very light colored). On stony meteorites, the heat-affected zone is at most a few mm deep; in iron meteorites, which are more thermally conductive, the structure of the metal may be affected by heat up to below the surface. Reports vary; some meteorites are reported to be \"burning hot to the touch\" upon landing, while others are alleged to have been cold enough to condense water and form a frost. Meteorites from multiple falls, such as Bjurbole, Tagish Lake, and Buzzard Coulee, have been found having fallen on lake and sea ice, perhaps suggesting that they were not hot when they fell.\n\nMeteoroids that experience disruption in the atmosphere may fall as meteorite showers, which can range from only a few up to thousands of separate individuals. The area over which a meteorite shower falls is known as its strewn field. Strewn fields are commonly elliptical in shape, with the major axis parallel to the direction of flight. In most cases, the largest meteorites in a shower are found farthest down-range in the strewn field.\n\nMost meteorites are stony meteorites, classed as chondrites and achondrites. Only about 6% of meteorites are iron meteorites or a blend of rock and metal, the stony-iron meteorites. Modern classification of meteorites is complex. The review paper of Krot et al. (2007) summarizes modern meteorite taxonomy.\n\nAbout 86% of the meteorites are chondrites, which are named for the small, round particles they contain. These particles, or chondrules, are composed mostly of silicate minerals that appear to have been melted while they were free-floating objects in space. Certain types of chondrites also contain small amounts of organic matter, including amino acids, and presolar grains. Chondrites are typically about 4.55 billion years old and are thought to represent material from the asteroid belt that never coalesced into large bodies. Like comets, chondritic asteroids are some of the oldest and most primitive materials in the solar system. Chondrites are often considered to be \"the building blocks of the planets\".\n\nAbout 8% of the meteorites are achondrites (meaning they do not contain chondrules), some of which are similar to terrestrial igneous rocks. Most achondrites are also ancient rocks, and are thought to represent crustal material of differentiated planetesimals. One large family of achondrites (the HED meteorites) may have originated on the parent body of the Vesta Family, although this claim is disputed. Others derive from unidentified asteroids. Two small groups of achondrites are special, as they are younger and do not appear to come from the asteroid belt. One of these groups comes from the Moon, and includes rocks similar to those brought back to Earth by Apollo and Luna programs. The other group is almost certainly from Mars and constitutes the only materials from other planets ever recovered by humans.\n\nAbout 5% of meteorites that have been seen to fall are iron meteorites composed of iron-nickel alloys, such as kamacite and/or taenite. Most iron meteorites are thought to come from the cores of planetesimals that were once molten. As with the Earth, the denser metal separated from silicate material and sank toward the center of the planetesimal, forming its core. After the planetesimal solidified, it broke up in a collision with another planetesimal. Due to the low abundance of iron meteorites in collection areas such as Antarctica, where most of the meteoric material that has fallen can be recovered, it is possible that the percentage of iron-meteorite falls is lower than 5%. This would be explained by a recovery bias; laypeople are more likely to notice and recover solid masses of metal than most other meteorite types. The abundance of iron meteorites relative to total Antarctic finds is 0.4% \n\nStony-iron meteorites constitute the remaining 1%. They are a mixture of iron-nickel metal and silicate minerals. One type, called pallasites, is thought to have originated in the boundary zone above the core regions where iron meteorites originated. The other major type of stony-iron meteorites is the mesosiderites.\n\nTektites (from Greek \"tektos\", molten) are not themselves meteorites, but are rather natural glass objects up to a few centimeters in size that were formed—according to most scientists—by the impacts of large meteorites on Earth's surface. A few researchers have favored tektites originating from the Moon as volcanic ejecta, but this theory has lost much of its support over the last few decades.\n\nIn March 2015, NASA scientists reported that, for the first time, complex organic compounds found in DNA and RNA, including uracil, cytosine and thymine, have been formed in the laboratory under outer space conditions, using starting chemicals, such as pyrimidine, found in meteorites. Pyrimidine, like polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbons (PAHs), the most carbon-rich chemical found in the Universe, may have been formed in red giants or in interstellar dust and gas clouds, according to the scientists.\n\nIn January 2018, researchers found that 4.5 billion-year-old meteorites found on Earth contained liquid water along with prebiotic complex organic substances that may be ingredients for life.\n\nMost meteorite falls are recovered on the basis of eyewitness accounts of the fireball or the impact of the object on the ground, or both. Therefore, despite the fact that meteorites fall with virtually equal probability everywhere on Earth, verified meteorite falls tend to be concentrated in areas with high human population densities such as Europe, Japan, and northern India.\n\nA small number of meteorite falls have been observed with automated cameras and recovered following calculation of the impact point. The first of these was the Přibram meteorite, which fell in Czechoslovakia (now the Czech Republic) in 1959. In this case, two cameras used to photograph meteors captured images of the fireball. The images were used both to determine the location of the stones on the ground and, more significantly, to calculate for the first time an accurate orbit for a recovered meteorite.\n\nFollowing the Pribram fall, other nations established automated observing programs aimed at studying infalling meteorites. One of these was the \"Prairie Network\", operated by the Smithsonian Astrophysical Observatory from 1963 to 1975 in the midwestern US. This program also observed a meteorite fall, the \"Lost City\" chondrite, allowing its recovery and a calculation of its orbit. Another program in Canada, the Meteorite Observation and Recovery Project, ran from 1971 to 1985. It too recovered a single meteorite, \"Innisfree\", in 1977. Finally, observations by the European Fireball Network, a descendant of the original Czech program that recovered Pribram, led to the discovery and orbit calculations for the \"Neuschwanstein\" meteorite in 2002.\nNASA has an automated system that detects meteors and calculates the orbit, magnitude, ground track, and other parameters over the southeast USA, which often detects a number of events each night.\n\nUntil the twentieth century, only a few hundred meteorite finds had ever been discovered. More than 80% of these were iron and stony-iron meteorites, which are easily distinguished from local rocks. To this day, few stony meteorites are reported each year that can be considered to be \"accidental\" finds. The reason there are now more than 30,000 meteorite finds in the world's collections started with the discovery by Harvey H. Nininger that meteorites are much more common on the surface of the Earth than was previously thought.\n\nNininger's strategy was to search for meteorites in the Great Plains of the United States, where the land was largely cultivated and the soil contained few rocks. Between the late 1920s and the 1950s, he traveled across the region, educating local people about what meteorites looked like and what to do if they thought they had found one, for example, in the course of clearing a field. The result was the discovery of over 200 new meteorites, mostly stony types.\n\nIn the late 1960s, Roosevelt County, New Mexico in the Great Plains was found to be a particularly good place to find meteorites. After the discovery of a few meteorites in 1967, a public awareness campaign resulted in the finding of nearly 100 new specimens in the next few years, with many being by a single person, Ivan Wilson. In total, nearly 140 meteorites were found in the region since 1967. In the area of the finds, the ground was originally covered by a shallow, loose soil sitting atop a hardpan layer. During the dustbowl era, the loose soil was blown off, leaving any rocks and meteorites that were present stranded on the exposed surface.\n\nA few meteorites were found in Antarctica between 1912 and 1964. In 1969, the 10th Japanese Antarctic Research Expedition found nine meteorites on a blue ice field near the Yamato Mountains. With this discovery, came the realization that movement of ice sheets might act to concentrate meteorites in certain areas. After a dozen other specimens were found in the same place in 1973, a Japanese expedition was launched in 1974 dedicated to the search for meteorites. This team recovered nearly 700 meteorites.\n\nShortly thereafter, the United States began its own program to search for Antarctic meteorites, operating along the Transantarctic Mountains on the other side of the continent: the Antarctic Search for Meteorites (ANSMET) program. European teams, starting with a consortium called \"EUROMET\" in the late 1980s, and continuing with a program by the Italian Programma Nazionale di Ricerche in Antartide have also conducted systematic searches for Antarctic meteorites.\n\nThe Antarctic Scientific Exploration of China has conducted successful meteorite searches since 2000. A Korean program (KOREAMET) was launched in 2007 and has collected a few meteorites. The combined efforts of all of these expeditions have produced more than 23,000 classified meteorite specimens since 1974, with thousands more that have not yet been classified. For more information see the article by Harvey (2003).\n\nAt about the same time as meteorite concentrations were being discovered in the cold desert of Antarctica, collectors discovered that many meteorites could also be found in the hot deserts of Australia. Several dozen meteorites had already been found in the Nullarbor region of Western and South Australia. Systematic searches between about 1971 and the present recovered more than 500 others, ~300 of which are currently well characterized. The meteorites can be found in this region because the land presents a flat, featureless, plain covered by limestone. In the extremely arid climate, there has been relatively little weathering or sedimentation on the surface for tens of thousands of years, allowing meteorites to accumulate without being buried or destroyed. The dark colored meteorites can then be recognized among the very different looking limestone pebbles and rocks.\n\nIn 1986–87, a German team installing a network of seismic stations while prospecting for oil discovered about 65 meteorites on a flat, desert plain about southeast of Dirj (Daraj), Libya. A few years later, a desert enthusiast saw photographs of meteorites being recovered by scientists in Antarctica, and thought that he had seen similar occurrences in northern Africa. In 1989, he recovered about 100 meteorites from several distinct locations in Libya and Algeria. Over the next several years, he and others who followed found at least 400 more meteorites. The find locations were generally in regions known as regs or hamadas: flat, featureless areas covered only by small pebbles and minor amounts of sand. Dark-colored meteorites can be easily spotted in these places. In the case of several meteorite fields, such as Dar el Gani, Dhofar, and others, favorable light-colored geology consisting of basic rocks (clays, dolomites, and limestones) makes meteorites particularly easy to identify.\n\nAlthough meteorites had been sold commercially and collected by hobbyists for many decades, up to the time of the Saharan finds of the late 1980s and early 1990s, most meteorites were deposited in or purchased by museums and similar institutions where they were exhibited and made available for scientific research. The sudden availability of large numbers of meteorites that could be found with relative ease in places that were readily accessible (especially compared to Antarctica), led to a rapid rise in commercial collection of meteorites. This process was accelerated when, in 1997, meteorites coming from both the Moon and Mars were found in Libya. By the late 1990s, private meteorite-collecting expeditions had been launched throughout the Sahara. Specimens of the meteorites recovered in this way are still deposited in research collections, but most of the material is sold to private collectors. These expeditions have now brought the total number of well-described meteorites found in Algeria and Libya to more than 500.\n\nMeteorite markets came into existence in the late 1990s, especially in Morocco. This trade was driven by Western commercialization and an increasing number of collectors. The meteorites were supplied by nomads and local people who combed the deserts looking for specimens to sell. Many thousands of meteorites have been distributed in this way, most of which lack any information about how, when, or where they were discovered. These are the so-called \"Northwest Africa\" meteorites. When they get classified, they are named \"Northwest Africa\" (abbreviated NWA) followed by a number. It is generally accepted that NWA meteorites originate in Morocco, Algeria, Western Sahara, Mali, and possibly even further afield. Nearly all of these meteorites leave Africa through Morocco. Scores of important meteorites, including Lunar and Martian ones, have been discovered and made available to science via this route. A few of the more notable meteorites recovered include Tissint and Northwest Africa 7034. Tissint was the first witnessed Martian meteorite fall in over fifty years; NWA 7034 is the oldest meteorite known to come from Mars, and is a unique water-bearing regolith breccia.\n\nIn 1999, meteorite hunters discovered that the desert in southern and central Oman were also favorable for the collection of many specimens. The gravel plains in the Dhofar and Al Wusta regions of Oman, south of the sandy deserts of the Rub' al Khali, had yielded about 5,000 meteorites as of mid-2009. Included among these are a large number of lunar and Martian meteorites, making Oman a particularly important area both for scientists and collectors. Early expeditions to Oman were mainly done by commercial meteorite dealers, however international teams of Omani and European scientists have also now collected specimens.\n\nThe recovery of meteorites from Oman is currently prohibited by national law, but a number of international hunters continue to remove specimens now deemed national treasures. This new law provoked a small international incident, as its implementation preceded any public notification of such a law, resulting in the prolonged imprisonment of a large group of meteorite hunters, primarily from Russia, but whose party also consisted of members from the US as well as several other European countries.\n\nBeginning in the mid-1960s, amateur meteorite hunters began scouring the arid areas of the southwestern United States. To date, meteorites numbering possibly into the thousands have been recovered from the Mojave, Sonoran, Great Basin, and Chihuahuan Deserts, with many being recovered on dry lake beds. Significant finds include the three tonne Old Woman meteorite, currently on display at the Desert Discovery Center in Barstow, California. Other rare finds include the Los Angeles meteorite, a Martian meteorite, Superior Valley 014 Acapulcoite, one of two of its type found within the United States, and the Blue Eagle meteorite, the first Rumuruti-type chondrite yet found in the Americas.\nA number of finds from the American Southwest have yet to be formally submitted to the Meteorite Nomenclature Committee, as many finders think it is unwise to publicly state the coordinates of their discoveries for fear of confiscation by the federal government and competition with other hunters at published find sites. \nSeveral of the meteorites found recently are currently on display in the Griffith Observatory in Los Angeles.\n\nMeteorite falls may have been the source of cultish worship. The cult in the Temple of Artemis at Ephesus, one of the Seven Wonders of the Ancient World, possibly originated with the observation and recovery of a meteorite that was understood by contemporaries to have fallen to the earth from Jupiter, the principal Roman deity.\nThere are reports that a sacred stone was enshrined at the temple that may have been a meteorite. The Black Stone set into the wall of the Kaaba has often been presumed to be a meteorite, but the little available evidence for this is inconclusive. Although the use of the metal found in meteorites is also recorded in myths of many countries and cultures where the celestial source was often acknowledged, scientific documentation only began in the last few centuries.\n\nThe oldest known iron artifacts are nine small beads hammered from meteoritic iron. They were found in northern Egypt and have been securely dated to 3200 BC.\n\nIn the 1970s, a stone meteorite was uncovered during an archaeological dig at Danebury Iron Age hillfort, Danebury England. It was found deposited part way down in an Iron Age pit (c. 1200 BC). Since it must have been deliberately placed there, this could indicate one of the first (known) human finds of a meteorite in Europe.\n\nSome Native Americans treated meteorites as ceremonial objects. In 1915, a iron meteorite was found in a Sinagua (c. 1100–1200 AD) burial cyst near Camp Verde, Arizona, respectfully wrapped in a feather cloth. A small pallasite was found in a pottery jar in an old burial found at Pojoaque Pueblo, New Mexico. Nininger reports several other such instances, in the Southwest US and elsewhere, such as the discovery of Native American beads of meteoric iron found in Hopewell burial mounds, and the discovery of the Winona meteorite in a Native American stone-walled crypt.\nIndigenous peoples often prized iron-nickel meteorites as an easy, if limited, source of iron metal. For example, the Inuit used chips of the Cape York meteorite to form cutting edges for tools and spear tips.\n\nTwo of the oldest recorded meteorite falls in Europe are the Elbogen (1400) and Ensisheim (1492) meteorites. The German physicist, Ernst Florens Chladni, was the first to publish (in 1794) the then audacious idea that meteorites were rocks from space. His booklet was \"On the Origin of the Iron Masses Found by Pallas and Others Similar to it, and on Some Associated Natural Phenomena\". In this he compiled all available data on several meteorite finds and falls concluded that they must have their origins in outer space. The scientific community of the time responded with resistance and mockery. It took nearly ten years before a general acceptance of the origin of meteorites was achieved through the work of the French scientist Jean-Baptiste Biot and the British chemist, Edward Howard. Biot's study, initiated by the French Academy of Sciences, was compelled by a fall of thousands of meteorites on 26 April 1803 from the skies of L'Aigle, France.\n\nOne of the leading theories for the cause of the Cretaceous–Paleogene extinction event that included the dinosaurs is a large meteorite impact. The Chicxulub Crater has been identified as the site of this impact. There has been a lively scientific debate as to whether other major extinctions, including the ones at the end of the Permian and Triassic periods might also have been the result of large impact events, but the evidence is much less compelling than for the end Cretaceous extinction.\n\nThere are several reported instances of falling meteorites having killed people and livestock, but a few of these appear more credible than others. The most infamous reported fatality from a meteorite impact is that of an Egyptian dog that was killed in 1911, although this report is highly disputed. This meteorite fall was identified in the 1980s as Martian in origin. There is substantial evidence that the meteorite known as Valera (Venezuela 1972, see Meteorite fall) hit and killed a cow upon impact, nearly dividing the animal in two, and similar unsubstantiated reports of a horse being struck and killed by a stone of the New Concord fall also abound. Throughout history, many first- and second-hand reports of meteorites falling on and killing both humans and other animals abound. One example is from 1490 AD in China, which purportedly killed thousands of people. John Lewis has compiled some of these reports, and summarizes, \"No one in recorded history has ever been killed by a meteorite in the presence of a meteoriticist and a medical doctor\" and \"reviewers who make sweeping negative conclusions usually do not cite any of the primary publications in which the eyewitnesses describe their experiences, and give no evidence of having read them\".\n\nThe first known modern case of a human hit by a space rock occurred on 30 November 1954 in Sylacauga, Alabama. A stone chondrite crashed through a roof and hit Ann Hodges in her living room after it bounced off her radio. She was badly bruised. The Hodges meteorite, or Sylacauga meteorite, is currently on exhibit at the Alabama Museum of Natural History.\n\nAnother claim was put forth by a young boy who stated that he had been hit by a small (~3-gram) stone of the Mbale meteorite fall from Uganda, and who stood to gain nothing from this assertion. The stone reportedly fell through banana leaves before striking the boy on the head, causing little to no pain, as it was small enough to have been slowed by both friction with the atmosphere as well as that with banana leaves, before striking the boy.\n\nSeveral persons have since claimed to have been struck by \"meteorites\" but no verifiable meteorites have resulted.\n\nMost meteorites date from the oldest times in the solar system and are by far the oldest material available on the planet. Despite their age, they are fairly vulnerable to terrestrial environment: water, salt, and oxygen attack the meteorites as soon they reach the ground.\n\nThe terrestrial alteration of meteorites is called weathering. In order to quantify the degree of alteration that a meteorite experienced, several qualitative weathering indices have been applied to Antarctic and desertic samples.\n\nThe most known weathering scale, used for ordinary chondrites, ranges from W0 (pristine state) to W6 (heavy alteration).\n\n\"Fossil\" meteorites are sometimes discovered by geologists. They represent the deeply weathered remains of meteorites that fell to Earth in the remote past and were preserved in sedimentary deposits sufficiently well that they can be recognized through mineralogical and geochemical studies. One limestone quarry in Sweden has produced an anomalously large number (more than a hundred) fossil meteorites from the Ordovician, nearly all of which are deeply weathered L-chondrites that still resemble the original meteorite under a petrographic microscope, but which have had their original material almost entirely replaced by terrestrial secondary mineralization. The extraterrestrial provenance was demonstrated in part through isotopic analysis of relict spinel grains, a mineral that is common in meteorites, is insoluble in water, and is able to persist chemically unchanged in the terrestrial weathering environment. One of these fossil meteorites, dubbed Österplana 065, appears to represent a distinct type of meteorite that is \"extinct\" in the sense that it is no longer falling to Earth, the parent body having already been completely depleted from reservoir of Near Earth Objects.\n\n\nApart from meteorites fallen onto the Earth, two tiny fragments of asteroids were found among the samples collected on the Moon; these were the Bench Crater meteorite (Apollo 12, 1969) and the Hadley Rille meteorite (Apollo 15, 1971).\n\n\n"}
{"id": "28849468", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28849468", "title": "Nichromite", "text": "Nichromite\n\nNichromite (Ni,Co,Fe)(Cr,Fe,Al)O is a black cubic metallic mineral and member of the spinel group. Nichromite was originally reported from the Bon Accord nickel deposit in Barberton District, South Africa. Occurring naturally in a nickel deposit, nichromite is named for chromite with dominant nickel. \n\nThe atomic arrangement of the spinel group is a commonly studied structure and characteristically has four closely packed oxygen atoms. The nickel atoms are organized corresponding to a \"normal\" spinel arrangement. \n\nThe mineral has only been found in the Bon Accord Nickel Deposit in South Africa where it is formed by replacing chromite and rimmed by trevorite. \n"}
{"id": "5172638", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5172638", "title": "Omicron Centauri", "text": "Omicron Centauri\n\nThe Bayer designation Omicron Centauri (ο Cen / ο Centauri) is shared by two star systems, in the constellation Centaurus:\nThey are separated by 0.07° on the sky. They may be physically related.\n"}
{"id": "16686748", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16686748", "title": "Outline of oceanography", "text": "Outline of oceanography\n\nThe following outline is provided as an overview of and introduction to oceanography:\n\nOceanography –\n\nOceanography can be described as all of the following: The study of the physical and biological aspects of the ocean\n\n\n\n\n\nBiological oceanography – The study of how organisms affect and are affected by the physics, chemistry, and geology of the oceanographic system\n\nMarine realm - Top level grouping of marine ecoregions\n\nMarine ecoregions – Ecological regions of the oceans and seas identified and defined based on biogeographic characteristics\n\nList of mangrove ecoregions – List ordered according to region \n\nChemical oceanography – The study of ocean chemistry\n\n\nResearch vessel – A ship or boat designed, modified, or equipped to carry out research at sea\n\n\n\nMarine geology – The study of the history and structure of the ocean floor\n\nFracture zone – A junction between oceanic crustal regions of different ages on the same plate left by a transform fault\n\nGeology of the North Sea – Description of the current geological features and the geological history that created them\n\nNew Zealand seafloor – The topography and geography of the seafloor in New Zealand's territorial waters. \n\n\nOceanic trench – the deepest parts of the ocean floor, typically formed when one tectonic plate slides under another.\n\nPlate tectonics – The scientific theory that describes the large-scale motions of Earth's lithosphere\n\nSeamount – A mountain rising from the ocean seafloor that does not reach to the water's surface\n\n\n\n\n\n\nSubduction zones – A geological process at convergent tectonic plate boundaries where one plate moves under the other\n\nSubmarine calderas – Volcanic calderas that are partially or fully submerged under the water of a larger ocean or lake, sometimes forming a reef, bay or harbor. \n\nPaleoceanography – The study of the history of the oceans in the geologic past\n\n(Outline of physical oceanography – Hierarchical outline list of articles on physical oceanography) \n\nPhysical oceanography – The study of physical conditions and physical processes within the ocean\n\nAcoustical oceanography – The use of underwater sound to study the sea, its boundaries and its contents\n\nCirculation terminology and concepts: \n\n\nTo be sorted:\n\n\n\n\n\n\nOcean gyre – Any large system of recirculating ocean currents\n\nLandforms – Natural features of the solid surface of the Earth or other planetary body\n\n\n\n\nOcean – A body of saline water that composes much of a planet's hydrosphere\n\nOcean zones – Not mutually exclusive\n\nSea – A large body of salt water surrounded in whole or in part by land\n\n \n \n \n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nSea ice – Ice formed from frozen seawater\n\nIceberg – A large piece of freshwater ice broken off a glacier or ice shelf and floating in open water\n\nSea level – Average level for the surface of the ocean at any given geographical position on the planetary surface\n\nTide – The periodic change of sea levels caused by the gravitational and inertial effects of the Moon, the Sun and the rotation of the Earth\n\nStorm surge Rise of water surface associated with a low pressure weather system\n\nTidal bore – A hydrodynamic phenomenon in which the leading edge of the incoming tide forms a wave (or waves) of water that travels up a river or narrow bay against the direction of the river or bay's current.\n\nTidal island – Land which is connected to the mainland by a causeway which is covered by high tide and exposed at low tide\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nWhirlpool – Body of rotating water produced by the meeting of opposing currents\n\nGravity wave – Wave generated in a fluid medium or at the interface between two media when the force of gravity or buoyancy tries to restore equilibrium\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nMarine geology – The study of the history and structure of the ocean floor\n\n"}
{"id": "20100428", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20100428", "title": "Pan American Day", "text": "Pan American Day\n\nPan American Day is a holiday observed by several countries in North and South America. It commemorates the First International Conference of American States which concluded on April 14, 1890, creating the International Union of American Republics, the forerunner to the Organization of American States (OAS). The holiday was originally proposed by the organization in 1930, and was first observed on April 14, 1930.\n\nCustoms/Traditions:\nParades are held, some schools put on plays, the orchestra plays music, people set up exhibits, and pageants are sometimes held.\n\nIn Belize \"Pan American Day\" refers to October 12, which is celebrated as Columbus Day in the United States.\n\nIn the United States, Pan American Day is observed by Presidential proclamation on April 14. In addition, the entire week on which the holiday falls is observed as Pan American Week. On April 7, 2017, President Donald Trump proclaimed \"Pan American Day\" and Pan American Week on April 7, 2017.\n"}
{"id": "38001", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38001", "title": "Phenylalanine", "text": "Phenylalanine\n\nPhenylalanine (symbol Phe or F) is an essential α-amino acid with the formula . It can be viewed as a benzyl group substituted for the methyl group of alanine, or a phenyl group in place of a terminal hydrogen of alanine. This essential amino acid is classified as neutral, and nonpolar because of the inert and hydrophobic nature of the benzyl side chain. The -isomer is used to biochemically form proteins, coded for by DNA. Phenylalanine is a precursor for tyrosine, the monoamine neurotransmitters dopamine, norepinephrine (noradrenaline), and epinephrine (adrenaline), and the skin pigment melanin. It is encoded by the codons UUU and UUC.\n\nPhenylalanine is found naturally in the breast milk of mammals. It is used in the manufacture of food and drink products and sold as a nutritional supplement for its reputed analgesic and antidepressant effects. It is a direct precursor to the neuromodulator phenethylamine, a commonly used dietary supplement. As an essential amino acid, phenylalanine is not synthesized de novo in humans and other animals, who must ingest phenylalanine or phenylalanine-containing proteins.\n\nThe first description of phenylalanine was made in 1879, when Schulze and Barbieri identified a compound with the empirical formula, CHNO, in yellow lupine (\"Lupinus luteus\") seedlings. In 1882, Erlenmeyer and Lipp first synthesized phenylalanine from phenylacetaldehyde, hydrogen cyanide, and ammonia.\n\nThe genetic codon for phenylalanine was first discovered by J. Heinrich Matthaei and Marshall W. Nirenberg in 1961. They showed that by using mRNA to insert multiple uracil repeats into the genome of the bacterium \"E. coli\", they could cause the bacterium to produce a polypeptide consisting solely of repeated phenylalanine amino acids. This discovery helped to establish the nature of the coding relationship that links information stored in genomic nucleic acid with protein expression in the living cell.\n\nGood sources of phenylalanine are eggs, chicken, liver, beef, milk, and soybeans.\n\nThe Food and Nutrition Board (FNB) of the U.S. Institute of Medicine set Recommended Dietary Allowances (RDAs) for essential amino acids in 2002. For phenylalanine plus tyrosine, for adults 19 years and older, 33 mg/kg body weight/day.\n\n-Phenylalanine is biologically converted into -tyrosine, another one of the DNA-encoded amino acids. -tyrosine in turn is converted into L-DOPA, which is further converted into dopamine, norepinephrine (noradrenaline), and epinephrine (adrenaline). The latter three are known as the catecholamines.\n\nPhenylalanine uses the same active transport channel as tryptophan to cross the blood–brain barrier. In excessive quantities, supplementation can interfere with the production of serotonin and other aromatic amino acids as well as nitric oxide due to the overuse (eventually, limited availability) of the associated cofactors, iron or tetrahydrobiopterin. The corresponding enzymes in for those compounds are the aromatic amino acid hydroxylase family and nitric oxide synthase.\n\nPhenylalanine is the starting compound used in the synthesis of flavonoids. Lignan is derived from phenylalanine and from tyrosine. Phenylalanine is converted to cinnamic acid by the enzyme phenylalanine ammonia-lyase.\n\nThe genetic disorder phenylketonuria (PKU) is the inability to metabolize phenylalanine because of a lack of the enzyme phenylalanine hydroxylase. Individuals with this disorder are known as \"phenylketonurics\" and must regulate their intake of phenylalanine. Phenylketonurics often use blood tests to monitor the amount of phenylalanine in their blood. Lab results may report phenylalanine levels using either mg/dL and μmol/L. One mg/dL of phenylalanine is approximately equivalent to 60 μmol/L.\n\nA (rare) \"variant form\" of phenylketonuria called hyperphenylalaninemia is caused by the inability to synthesize a cofactor called tetrahydrobiopterin, which can be supplemented. Pregnant women with hyperphenylalaninemia may show similar symptoms of the disorder (high levels of phenylalanine in blood) but these indicators will usually disappear at the end of gestation. Pregnant women with PKU must control their blood phenylalanine levels even if the fetus is heterozygous for the defective gene because the fetus could be adversely affected due to hepatic immaturity.\n\nA non-food source of phenylalanine is the artificial sweetener aspartame. This compound is metabolized by the body into several chemical byproducts including phenylalanine. The breakdown problems phenylketonurics have with the buildup of phenylalanine in the body also occurs with the ingestion of aspartame, although to a lesser degree. Accordingly, all products in Australia, the U.S. and Canada that contain aspartame must be labeled: \"Phenylketonurics: Contains phenylalanine.\" In the UK, foods containing aspartame must carry ingredient panels that refer to the presence of \"aspartame or E951\" and they must be labeled with a warning \"Contains a source of phenylalanine.\" In Brazil, the label \"Contém Fenilalanina\" (Portuguese for \"Contains Phenylalanine\") is also mandatory in products which contain it. These warnings are placed to help individuals avoid such foods.\n\nGeneticists sequenced the genome of macaques in 2007. Their investigations found \"some instances where the normal form of the macaque protein looked like the diseased human protein\" including markers for PKU.\n\nThe stereoisomer -phenylalanine (DPA) can be produced by conventional organic synthesis, either as a single enantiomer or as a component of the racemic mixture. It does not participate in protein biosynthesis although it is found in proteins in small amounts - particularly aged proteins and food proteins that have been processed. The biological functions of -amino acids remain unclear, although -phenylalanine has pharmacological activity at niacin receptor 2.\n\n-Phenylalanine (DLPA) is marketed as a nutritional supplement for its purported analgesic and antidepressant activities. -Phenylalanine is a mixture of -phenylalanine and -phenylalanine. The reputed analgesic activity of -phenylalanine may be explained by the possible blockage by -phenylalanine of enkephalin degradation by the enzyme carboxypeptidase A. The mechanism of -phenylalanine's supposed antidepressant activity may be accounted for by the precursor role of -phenylalanine in the synthesis of the neurotransmitters norepinephrine and dopamine. Elevated brain levels of norepinephrine and dopamine are thought to have an antidepressant effect. -Phenylalanine is absorbed from the small intestine and transported to the liver via the portal circulation. A small amount of -phenylalanine appears to be converted to -phenylalanine. -Phenylalanine is distributed to the various tissues of the body via the systemic circulation. It appears to cross the blood–brain barrier less efficiently than -phenylalanine, and so a small amount of an ingested dose of -phenylalanine is excreted in the urine without penetrating the central nervous system.\n\n-Phenylalanine is an antagonist at α2δ Ca calcium channels with a K of 980 nM.\n\nIn the brain, -phenylalanine is a competitive antagonist at the glycine binding site of NMDA receptor and at the glutamate binding site of AMPA receptor. At the glycine binding site of NMDA receptor -phenylalanine has an apparent equilibrium dissociation constant (K) of 573 µM estimated by Schild regression which is considerably lower than brain -phenylalanine concentration observed in untreated human phenylketonuria.\n-Phenylalanine also inhibits neurotransmitter release at glutamatergic synapses in hippocampus and cortex with IC of 980 µM, a brain concentration seen in classical phenylketonuria, whereas -phenylalanine has a significantly smaller effect.\n\n-Phenylalanine is produced for medical, feed, and nutritional applications, such as aspartame, in large quantities by utilizing the bacterium \"Escherichia coli\", which naturally produces aromatic amino acids like phenylalanine. The quantity of -phenylalanine produced commercially has been increased by genetically engineering \"E. coli\", such as by altering the regulatory promoters or amplifying the number of genes controlling enzymes responsible for the synthesis of the amino acid.\n\nBoronophenylalanine (BPA) is a dihydroxyboryl derivative of phenylalanine, used in neutron capture therapy.\n\n"}
{"id": "1511050", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1511050", "title": "Picea glauca", "text": "Picea glauca\n\nPicea glauca, the white spruce, is a species of spruce native to the northern temperate and boreal forests in North America. \"Picea glauca\" was originally native from central Alaska all through the east, across southern/central Canada to the Avalon Peninsula in Newfoundland. It now has become naturalized southward into the far northern United States border states like Montana, Minnesota, Wisconsin, Michigan, Vermont, New Hampshire and Maine; there is also an isolated population in the Black Hills of South Dakota and Wyoming. It is also known as Canadian spruce, skunk spruce, cat spruce, Black Hills spruce, western white spruce, Alberta white spruce, and Porsild spruce.\n\nThe white spruce is a large coniferous evergreen tree which grows normally to tall, but can grow up to tall with a trunk diameter of up to . The bark is thin and scaly, flaking off in small circular plates across. The crown is narrow – conic in young trees, becoming cylindric in older trees. The shoots are pale buff-brown, glabrous (hairless) in the east of the range, but often pubescent in the west, and with prominent pulvini. The leaves are needle-like, long, rhombic (diamond-shaped) in cross-section, glaucous blue-green above (whence \"glauca\") with several thin lines of stomata, and blue-white below with two broad bands of stomata.\n\nThe cones are pendulous, slender, cylindrical, long and wide when closed, opening to broad. They have thin, flexible scales long, with a smoothly rounded margin. They are green or reddish, maturing to pale brown 4 to 8 months after pollination. The seeds are black, long, with a slender, long pale brown wing.\n\nSeeds are small ( long), oblong, and acute at the base. Determinations of the average number of sound seeds per white spruce cone have ranged from 32 to 130 (Waldron 1965, Zasada and Viereck 1970).\n\nCommon causes of empty seed are lack of pollination, abortion of the ovule, and insect damage.\n\nThe average weight per individual seed varies from 1.1 mg to 3.2 mg (Hellum 1976, Zasada et al. 1978).\n\nEach seed is clasped by a thin wing 2 to 4 times as long as the seed. Seed and wing are appressed to the cone scale. Embryo and megagametophyte are soft and translucent at first; later the endosperm becomes firm and milky white, while the embryo becomes cream-colored or light yellow. At maturity, the testa darkens rapidly from light brown to dark brown or black (Crossley 1953). Mature seed “snaps in two” when cut by a sharp knife on a firm surface (Crossley 1953).\n\nWhite spruce cones reach their maximum size after 800 growing degree days (GDD). Cone moisture content decreases gradually after about 1000 GDD (Cram and Worden 1957)\n\nCone colour also can be used to help determine the degree of maturation, but cones may be red, pink or green (Teich 1970). Collection and storage dates and conditions influence germination requirements and early seedling growth (Zasada 1973, Edwards 1977, Winston and Haddon 1981).\n\nA bushel (35 L) of cones, which may contain 6500 to 8000 cones, yields of clean seed (USDA Forest Service 1948).\n\nSeed dispersal begins after cone scales reflex with cone maturation in the late summer or early fall of the year of formation. Cones open at moisture contents of 45% to 70% and specific gravities of 0.6 to 0.8 (Cram and Worden 1957, Zasada 1973, Winston and Haddon 1981). Weather affects both the initiation and pattern of seed dispersal (Nienstaedt and Zasada 1990), but cone opening and the pattern of seed dispersal can vary among trees in the same stand (Zasada 1986). Even after dispersal has begun, cold, damp weather will cause cone scales to close; they will reopen during dry weather. Most seed falls early rather than late, but dispersal may continue through fall and winter (Zasada 1986), even into the next growing season (Rowe 1953). Seed dispersal occurs mainly in late summer or early fall (Waldron 1965).\n\nWhite spruce seed is initially dispersed through the air by wind. Both the initiation and pattern of seed dispersal depend on the weather (Nienstaedt and Zasada 1990), but these can vary among trees in the same stand (Zasada 1986). Small amounts of white spruce seed are normally dispersed beyond 100 m from the seed source, but exceptionally seeds have been found more than 300–400 m from the nearest seed source (Zasada 1986).\n\nThe root system of white spruce is highly variable and adaptable (Wagg 1964, 1967), responding to a variety of edaphic factors, especially soil moisture, soil fertility, and mechanical impedance. On soils that limit rooting depth, the root system is plate-like, but it is a common misconception to assume that white spruce is genetically constrained to develop plate-like root systems irrespective of soil conditions (Sutton 1969). In the nursery, or naturally in the forest, white spruce usually develops several long “running” roots just below the ground surface (Mullin 1957).\n\nThe structure of the tracheids in the long lateral roots of white spruce varies with soil nitrogen availability (Krasowski and Owens 1999).\n\nWhite spruce can live for several hundred years. Ages of 200 to 300 years are commonly attained throughout much of the range, and Dallimore and Jackson (1961) estimated the normal lifespan of white spruce at 250 to 300 years.\n\nSlow-growing trees in rigorous climates are also capable of great longevity. White spruce high on the shore of Urquhart Lake, Northwest Territories, were found to be more than 300 years old (Hare and Ritchie 1972),\n\nThe bark of mature white spruce is scaly or flaky, grey-brown (Brayshaw 1960) or ash-brown (Harlow and Harrar 1950), but silvery when freshly exposed. Resin blisters are normally lacking, but the Porsild spruce \"Picea glauca\" var. \"porsildii\" Raup has been credited with having smooth resin-blistered bark (Hosie 1969).\n\nWhite spruce bark is mostly less than (Hale 1955) and not more than thick (Chang 1954).\n\nWhite spruce has a transcontinental range in North America. In Canada, its contiguous distribution encompasses virtually the whole of the Boreal, Subalpine, Montane, Columbia, Great Lakes – St. Lawrence, and Acadian Forest Regions (Rowe 1972), extending into every province and territory (Forestry Branch 1961). On the west coast of Hudson Bay, it extends to Seal River, about 59°N, \"from which the northward limit runs apparently almost directly north-west to near the mouth of the Mackenzie River, or about latitude 68°\" (Bell 1881). Collins and Sumner (1953) reported finding white spruce within 13 km of the Arctic coast in the Firth Valley, Yukon, at about 69°30′ N, 139°30′ W. It reaches within 100 km of the Pacific Ocean in the Skeena Valley, overlapping with the range of Sitka spruce (\"Picea sitchensis\" [Bong.] Carr.), and almost reaching the Arctic Ocean at latitude 69° N in the District of Mackenzie, with white spruce up to 15 m high occurring on some of the islands in the Delta near Inuvik. The wide variety of ecological conditions in which 4 Quebec conifers, including white spruce, are able to establish themselves, was noted by Lafond (1966), but white spruce was more exacting than black spruce. In the United States, the range of white spruce extends into Maine, Vermont, New Hampshire, New York, Michigan, Wisconsin, Minnesota, and Alaska (Sargent 1922, Harlow and Harrar 1950), where it reaches the Bering Strait in 66°44′ N\" at Norton Bay and the Gulf of Alaska at Cook Inlet (Nienstaedt and Zasada 1990).\n\nSouthern outliers have been reported in southern Saskatchewan and the Cypress Hills of southwestern Saskatchewan (Scoggan 1957, Nienstaedt and Zasada 1990) and southeastern Alberta, northwestern Montana (Munns 1938, Harlow and Harrar 1950), south-central Montana (Munns 1938), in the Black Hills on the Wyoming–South Dakota boundary (Munns 1938, Fernald 1950), on the Manitoba–North Dakota boundary (Munns 1938), and at Shushan, New York (Cook and Smith 1959).\n\nWhite spruce is the northernmost tree species in North America, reaching just north of 69°N latitude in the Mackenzie River delta. It grows between sea level and an elevation of . Its northern distribution roughly correlates to the location of the tree line, which includes an isothermic value of for mean temperature in July, as well as the position of the Arctic front; cumulative summer degree days, mean net radiation, and the amount of light intensities also figure. White spruce is generally found in regions where the growing season exceeds 60 days annually.\nThe southern edge of the zone in which white spruce forms 60% or more of the total stand corresponds more or less to the July isotherm of around the Great Lakes; in the Prairie Provinces its limit is north of this isotherm. During the summer solstice, day length values range from 17 hours at its southern limits to 24 hours above the Arctic Circle.\n\nOne of the hardiest conifers, white spruce in parts of its range withstands mean daily January temperature of and extreme minimum temperatures as low as ; minimum temperatures of are general throughout much of the range except the southernmost and southeasternmost parts (Fowells 1965). By itself, or with black spruce and tamarack (\"Larix laricina\"), white spruce forms the northern boundary of tree-form growth (Sutton 1969). White spruce up to 15 m in height occur at 69°N on islands in the Mackenzie Delta near Inuvik in the Northwest Territories. Hustich (1966) depicted \"Picea\" spp. as forming the northernmost limit of tree growth in North America.\n\nThe arctic or northern timberline in North America forms a broad transition zone from Labrador to northern Alaska. In Labrador, white spruce is not abundant and constitutes less than 5% of the forest, with a range that coincides very closely with that of black spruce but extending slightly further north (Wilton 1964).\n\nThe range of white spruce extends westwards from Newfoundland and Labrador, and along the northern limit of trees to Hudson Bay, Northwest Territories, Yukon, and into northwestern Alaska (Fowells 1965). Although Bell (1881) was emphatic that it “nowhere reaches the Atlantic coast [from which it recedes] further and further in going north”. Across western Canada and Alaska, white spruce occurs further north than black spruce, and, while poplar (\"Populus\"), willow, and birch may occur along streams well into the tundra beyond the limits of spruce, the hardwoods are usually no more than scrub (Hustich 1953). Spruce characteristically occurs in fingers of tree-form forest, extending far down the northern rivers and as scattered clumps of dwarfed “bush” spruce on intervening lands (Munns 1938, Halliday and Brown 1943). In Manitoba, Scoggan (1957, citing a 1951 but otherwise unreferenced report by Baldwin) noted that the northernmost collection of white spruce was at latitude 59°48’N, but Bryson et al. (1965) found white spruce in the northern edge of continuous forest in central Canada at Ennadai Lake, about 60°45′ N, 101°’W, just north of the northwest corner of Manitoba. Bryson et al. (1965) noted that the forest retained “the same general characteristics as when it was first described [by Tyrrell (1897)] in 1896”. Collins and Sumner (1953) reported finding white spruce within 13 km of the Arctic coast in the Firth valley, Yukon, at about 69°30′ N, 139°30′ W, and Sargent (1922) noted that white spruce in Alaska “reached Behring Strait in 66°44′ N”.\nClimate, especially temperature, is obviously a factor in determining distributions of northern flora. Halliday and Brown (1943) suggested that white spruce’s northern limit corresponds “very closely” with the July mean monthly isotherm of 10 °C in Ungava, but that the northern limit west of Hudson Bay was south of that isotherm. Other climatic factors that have been suggested as affecting the northern limit of white spruce include: cumulative summer degree days, position of the Arctic front in July, mean net radiation especially during the growing season, and low light intensities (Nienstaedt and Zasada 1990). Topography, soil conditions, and glaciation may also be important in controlling northern limits of spruce (Drew and Shanks 1965).\n\nThe southern limit of distribution of white spruce is more complex. From east of the main range of coastal mountains in British Columbia, the southern continuous limit of white spruce is the forest/prairie interface through Alberta, Saskatchewan, Manitoba, the northern parts of Minnesota and Wisconsin, central Michigan, northeastern New York, and Maine (Fowells 1965). Sargent (1922) and Harlow and Harrar (1950) also included Vermont and New Hampshire; and, while Dame and Brooks (1901) excluded New York and states further west, they included Massachusetts as far south as Amherst and Northampton, “probably the southern limit of the species” in that area. Nisbet (1905) gave the range of white spruce as extending to “Carolina”, but he did not recognize red spruce as a species and presumably included it with white spruce.\n\nTowards the southern parts of its range, white spruce encounters increasingly effective ecological competition from hardwoods, some of which may reinforce their growth-rate or sprouting competitiveness with allelopathic depredation of coniferous regeneration (Tubbs 1976). Further southward extension of the distribution is inhibited by white spruce’s cold requirement.\n\nAs an exotic, white spruce is widespread but uncommon. It was introduced into England (Hereman 1868) and parts of continental Europe (Nisbet 1905, Jackson 1948) in or soon after the year 1700, into Denmark about 1790 (Sabroe 1954), and into Tasmania and Ceylon shortly before 1932 (Troup 1932).\n\nNisbet (1905) noted that firmly-rooted white spruce served very well to stabilize windswept edges of woods in Germany. In a narrow belt of mixed Norway and white spruces over an extremely exposed hilltop crest at high elevation in northern England, the Norway spruce were “completely dwarfed” whereas the white spruce had reached heights of between 3 and 4.3 m (Guillebaud et al. 1920). The age of the belt was not recorded, but adjoining 66-year-old stands may have been of the same vintage.\n\nWhite spruce has also been used as a minor plantation species in England (Selby 1842, Anon. 1879) and Scotland (United Kingdom Forestry Commission 1920). In Scotland, at Corrour, Inverness-shire, Sir John Stirling Maxwell in 1907 began using white spruce in his pioneering plantations at high elevations on deep peat. However, plantations in Britain have generally been unsatisfactory (Edlin 1962), mainly because of damage by spring frosts after mild weather had induced flushing earlier in the season. However, the species is held in high regard in the Belgian peat region, where it grows better than do the other spruces (Fraser 1933).\n\nWhite spruce is a climax canopy tree in the boreal forests of Canada and Alaska. It generally occurs on well-drained soils in alluvial and riparian zones, although it also occurs in soils of glacial and lacustrine origin. The understory is dominated by feather mosses (\"Hylocomium splendens\" and \"Pleurozium schreberi\", \"Ptilium crista-castrensis\", and \"Dicranum spp.\"), and occasionally peat moss. In the far north, the total depth of the moss and underlying humus is normally between , although it tends to be shallower when hardwoods are present in the stand.\n\nWhite spruce grows in soils with pH values of 4.7–7.0, although they have been found in soils as acidic as 4.0 in subalpine fir forests in the Northwest Territories. A presence of calcium in the soil is common to white spruce found in northern New York. White spruce most commonly grows in the soil orders of Alfisols and Inceptisols. Soil properties such as fertility, temperature, and structural stability are partial determinants of the ability of white spruce to grow in the extreme northern latitudes. In the northern limits of its range, white spruce is the climax species along with black spruce; birch and aspen are the early succession species.\nWildfires typically occur every 60 to 200 years, although they have been known to occur as infrequently as every 300 years.\n\nWhite spruce will grow in USDA Growing Zones 3-7, but is not adapted to heat and humidity and will perform poorly in a hot climate. The tree attains its greatest longevity and growth potential in Zones 3-4.\n\nWhite spruce occurs on a wide variety of soils, including soils of glacial, lacustrine, marine, and alluvial origins; overlying basic dolomites, limestones and acidic Precambrian and Devonian granites and gneisses; and Silurian sedimentary schists, shales, slates, and conglomerates (Halliday 1937). The wide range of textures accommodated includes clays (Wilde et al. 1949, 1954; Nienstaedt 1957, Rowe 1972), even those that are massive when wet and columnar when dry (Jameson 1963), and sand flats, and coarse soils (Forest Section L 4d, Rowe 1972). Its occurrence on some organic soils is not characteristic, except perhaps on shallow mesic organic soils in Saskatchewan and in association with black spruce on organic soils in central Yukon (Nienstaedt and Zasada 1990).\n\nPodzolized, brunisolic, luvisolic, gleysolic, and regosolic (immature) soils are typical of those supporting white spruce throughout the range of the species (Nienstaedt 1957). Soils supporting white spruce are most commonly Alfisols or Inceptisols (Nienstaedt and Zasada 1990). In the podzol region of Wisconsin, white spruce occurs on loam podzols, podzolized gley loams, strongly podzolized clays, gley-podzol clays, stream-bottom soils, and wood peat (Wilde et al. 1949). Moist sandy loams also support good growth (Harlow and Harrar 1950). On sandy podzols (Wilde et al. 1949), it is usually a minor species (Nienstaedt and Zasada 1990). Good development occurs on moist alluvium (Seeley, cited by Nienstaedt 1957; Jeffrey 1961, 1964; Lacate et al. 1965; Viereck 1973) on the banks of streams and borders of swamps (Sargent 1898, Kenety 1917, Rowe 1972). White spruce makes good growth on well-drained lacustrine soils in Alberta Mixedwoods (Heger 1971), on moderately-well-drained clay loams in Saskatchewan (Kabzems 1971), and on melanized loams and clays (with sparse litter and a dark-coloured organically-enriched mineral horizon) in the Algoma district of Ontario (Wilde et al. 1954).\n\nWhite spruce becomes less accommodating of soil with increasing severity of climate. The distribution of white spruce in Labrador seems to depend almost entirely on the character of the soil (Sargent 1898), and between the southwestern shores of Hudson Bay and the northeastern regions of Saskatchewan, white spruce is confined to very local physiographic features, characterized by well-drained or fertile soils (Ritchie 1956).\n\nOn dry, deep, outwash deposits in northern Ontario, both white spruce and aspen grow slowly (MacLean 1960). But, broadly, white spruce is able to tolerate considerable droughtiness of sites that are fertile, and no fertile site is too moist unless soil moisture is stagnant (Sutton 1968). Soil fertility holds the key not just to white spruce growth but to the distribution of the species. At least moderate fertility is needed for good growth, but white spruce occurs on many sites where nutrient deficiencies depress its growth more than that of black spruce, red spruce, Norway spruce, and the pines generally (Heiberg and White 1951, Lafond 1954, McLeod 1956, MacArthur 1957, Paine 1960, Swan 1960). Minimum soil-fertility standards recommended for white spruce sufficient to produce 126 to 157 m/ha of wood at 40 years are much higher than for pine species commonly planted in the Lake States (Wilde 1966): 3.5% organic matter, 12.0 meq/100 g exchange capacity, 0.12% total N, 44.8 kg/ha available P, 145.7 kg/ha available K, 3.00 meq/100 g exchangeable Ca, and 0.70 meq/100 g exchangeable Mg.\nForest floors under stands dominated by white spruce respond in ways that vary with site conditions, including the disturbance history of the site (Nienstaedt and Zasada 1990). Composition, biomass, and mineral soil physical and chemical properties are affected. In Alaska, the accumulation of organic layers (to greater thicknesses in mature stands of spruce than those in hardwood stands on similar sites) leads to decreased soil temperatures, in some cases leading to the development of permafrost (Viereck 1970a, b, Viereck et al. 1983). Acidity of the mineral soil sampled at an average depth of 17 cm in 13 white spruce stands on abandoned farmland in Ontario increased by 1.2 pH units over a period of 46 years (Brand et al. 1986).\n\nA considerable range of soil pH is tolerated by white spruce (Nienstaedt 1957). Thrifty stands of white spruce in Manitoba have developed on soils of pH 7.6 at only 10 cm below the surface, and pH 8.4 at 43 cm below the surface (Stoeckeler 1938, USDA Forest Service 1938); rooting depth in those soils was at least 81 cm. An abundant calcium supply is common to most white spruce locations in New York state (Nienstaedt and Zasada 1990). Chlorosis was observed in young white spruce in heavily limed nursery soils at about pH 8.3 (Stone, cited by Nienstaedt 1957). Wilde (1966) gave 4.7 to 6.5 as the approximate optimum range of pH for white spruce in Wisconsin, but optimum growth seems possible at pH levels up to 7.0 and perhaps higher (Sutton 1968). Alluvium on the floodplains of northern rivers shows pH levels from 5.0 to 8.2 (Zasada et al. 1977). High-lime ecotypes may exist (Pelletier 1966), and in Canada Forest Section B8 the presence of balsam poplar and white spruce on some of the moulded moraines and clays seems to be correlated with the considerable lime content of these materials (Rowe 1972, Stiell 1976), while calcareous soils are favourable sites for northern outliers of white spruce (Hustich 1953).\n\nMature stands of white spruce in boreal regions often have well-developed moss layers dominated by feather mosses, e.g., \"Hylocomium splendens\" (Hedw.) B.S.G., \"Pleurozium schreberi\" (Brid.) Mitt., \"Ptlium crista-castrensis\" (Hedw.) De Not., and \"Dicranum\" Hedw. spp. rather than \"Sphagnum\" Dill. spp. (La Roi and Stringer 1976, Viereck 1987). The thickness of the moss–organic layer commonly exceeds 25 cm in the far north and may approach twice that figure. The mosses compete for nutrients and have a major influence on soil temperatures in the rooting zone. Permafrost development in parts of Alaska, Yukon, and the Northwest Territories is facilitated by the insulative organic layer (Viereck 1970a, b, Gill 1975, Van Cleve and Yarie 1986). The role of windthrow in maintaining diversification of the bryophyte flora in boreal spruce forests has been described by Jonsson et al. (1990) and Jonsson and Dynesius (1993).\n\nWhite spruce is extremely hardy to low temperatures, provided the plant is in a state of winter dormancy. Throughout the greater part of its range, white spruce routinely survives and is undamaged by winter temperatures of , and even lower temperatures occur in parts of the range (Fowells 1965, Nienstaedt and Zasada 1990). Boreal \"Picea\" are among the few extremely hardy conifers in which the bud primordia are able to survive temperatures down to (Sakai and Larcher 1987).\n\nEspecially important in determining the response of white spruce to low temperatures is the physiological state of the various tissues, notably the degree of \"hardening\" or dormancy. A natural progression of hardening and dehardening occurs in concert with the seasons (Glerum 1985). While different tissues vary in ability to tolerate exposure to stressful temperatures, white spruce, as with woody plants in general, has necessarily developed sufficient winter hardiness in its various tissues to enable them to survive the minimum temperatures experienced in the distribution range.\n\nWhite spruce is subject to severe damage from spring frosts. Newly flushed shoots of white spruce are very sensitive to spring frost (Smith 1949, Rowe 1955, McLeod 1964). This sensitivity is a major constraint affecting young trees planted without overstorey nurses in boreal climates (Sutton 1992).\n\nForest succession in its traditional sense implies two important features that resist direct examination (Solomon et al. 1981). First, classical definitions generally connote directional changes in species composition and community structure through time, yet the time frame needed for documentation of change far exceeds an average lifespan (Solomon et al. 1981). The second feature that defies quantitative description is the end point or climax.\n\nFloodplain deposits in the Northwest Territory, Canada, are important in relation to the development of productive forest types with a component of white spruce (Jeffrey 1964). The most recently exposed surfaces are occupied by sandbar vegetation or riparian shrub willows and alder (\"Alnus incana\"); with increasing elevation, the shrubs give way successively to balsam poplar and white spruce forest. In contrast, older floodplains, with predominantly brown wooded soils, typically carry white spruce–trembling aspen mixedwood forest.\n\nInterrelationships among nutrient cycling, regeneration, and subsequent forest development on floodplains in interior Alaska were addressed by Van Cleve et al. (1980), who pointed out that the various stages in primary succession reflect physical, chemical, and biological controls of ecosystem structure and function. Thus, each successional stage has a species combination in harmony with site quality. Short-circuiting succession by planting a late successional species such as white spruce on an early successional surface may result in markedly reduced growth rates because of nitrogen insufficiency. Without application of substantial amounts of fertilizer, use would have to be made of early successional alder and its site-ameliorating additions of nitrogen.\nNeiland and Viereck noted that “the slow establishment and growth of spruce under birch stands [in Alaska] may be partially due to effects of shading and general competition for water and nutrients, but may also be more directly related to the birch itself. Heikinheimo (1915 cited by Lutz 1956), found that birch ash inhibited white spruce seedlings, and Gregory (1966) found that birch litter has a smothering effect on spruce seedlings” (Neiland and Viereck 1977).\n\nOn dry upland sites, especially south-facing slopes, the mature vegetation is white spruce, white birch, trembling aspen, or a combination of these species. Succession follows in one of two general patterns. In most cases, aspen and birch develop as a successional stage after fire before reaching the spruce stage. But, occasionally, with optimal site conditions and a source of seed, white spruce will invade with the hardwoods or within a few years thereafter, thereby producing even-aged white spruce stands without an intervening hardwood stage.\n\nThe White Spruce Cover Type may include other species in small numbers. In Alaska, associates include paper birch, trembling aspen, balsam poplar, and black spruce; in western Canada, additional associates are subalpine fir, balsam fir, Douglas-fir, jack pine, and lodgepole pine (Dyrness 1980). Seral species giving way to white spruce include paper birch, aspen, balsam poplar, jack pine, and lodgepole pine. On certain river bottom sites, however, black spruce may replace white spruce (Viereck 1970a). Earlier successional stages leading to the white spruce climax are the white spruce–paper birch, white spruce–aspen, balsam poplar, jack pine, and lodgepole pine types. The type shows little variation. The forest is generally closed and the trees well formed, other than those close to the timberline. Lesser vegetation in mature stands is dominated by mosses. Vascular plants are typically few, but shrubs and herbs that occur “with a degree of regularity” include: alder, willows, mountain cranberry, red-fruit bearberry, black crowberry, prickly rose, currant, buffaloberry, blueberry species, bunchberry, twinflower, tall lungwort, northern comandra, horsetail, bluejoint grass, sedge species, as well as ground-dwelling mosses and lichens. Several white spruce communities have been identified in interior Alaska: white spruce/feathermoss; white spruce/dwarf birch/feathermoss; white spruce/dwarf birch/sphagnum; white spruce/avens/moss; and white spruce/alder/bluejoint (Viereck 1975, Dyrness 1980).\n\nOf the Eastern Forest Cover Types recognized by the Society of American Foresters (Eyre 1980), only one, White Spruce, names that species in its title. The eastern White Spruce Cover Type, as defined, encompasses white spruce both in pure stands, and in mixed stands “in which white spruce is the major [undefined] component” (Payette 1980).\n\nIn most of its range, white spruce occurs more typically in association with trees of other species than in pure stands.\n\nWhite spruce is an associated species in the following Eastern Forest cover types, by the Society of American Foresters: In the Boreal Forest Region: (1) jack pine, (5) balsam fir, (12) black spruce, (16) aspen, (18) paper birch, and (38) tamarack. In the Northern Forest Region: (15) red pine, (21) eastern white pine, (24) hemlock-yellow birch, (25) sugar maple-beech-yellow birch, (27) sugar maple, (30) red spruce-yellow birch, (32) red spruce, (33) red spruce-balsam fir, (37) northern white-cedar, and (39) black ash-American elm-red maple (Nienstaedt and Zasada 1990, Eyre 1980).\n\nOutbreaks of spruce beetles have destroyed over of forests in Alaska.\n\nAlthough sometimes described, e.g., by Switzer (1960), as relatively resistant to attack by insects and disease, white spruce is far from immune to depredation. Important insect pests of white spruce include the spruce budworm (\"Choristoneura fumiferana\" [Clemens]), the yellow-headed spruce sawfly (\"Pikonema alaskensis\" Rohwer), the European spruce sawfly (\"Gilpinia hercyniae\" [Hartig]), the spruce bud moth (\"Zeiraphera canadensis)\"\",\" and spruce beetle (\"Dendroctonus rufipennis\" [Kirby]) (Fowells 1965, Rose and Lindquist 1985, Ives and Wong 1988). As well, other budworms, sawflies, and bark beetles, gall formers, bud midges, leaf miners, aphids, leaf eaters, leaf rollers, loopers, mites, scales, weevils, borers, pitch moths, and spittlebugs cause varying degrees of damage to white spruce (Ives and Wong 1988).\n\nA number of sawflies feed on spruce trees. Among them European spruce sawfly, yellow-headed spruce sawfly, green-headed spruce sawfly and the spruce webspinning sawfly (Rose and Lindquist 1985).\n\nMore than a dozen kinds of looper feed on the spruces, fir, and hemlock in eastern Canada. The full-grown larvae of the larvae vary in length from 15 mm to 35 mm. Some feed briefly in the fall and complete their feeding in the spring; others feed mainly in the summer; still others feed mainly in the late summer and fall.\n\nThe fall and spring feeding group includes the dash-lined looper (\"Protoboarmia porcelaria indicataria\" Walker), the diamond-backed looper (\"Hypagyrtis piniata\" Packard), the fringed looper (\"Campaea perlata\" Guenée), and the false loopers (\"Syngrapha\" species). The summer feeding group includes the false hemlock looper (\"Nepytia canosaria\" Walker), occasionally occurring in large numbers and usually in conjunction with the hemlock looper (\"Lambdina fiscellaria fiscellaria\" Guenée), the small spruce loopers \"Eupithecia\" species, the yellowlined conifer looper (\"Cladara limitaria\" Walker), and the saddleback looper (\"Ectropis crepuscularia\" Denis and Schiffermüller).\n\nThe late summer and fall group includes the common spruce-fir looper (\"Semiothisa signaria dispuncta\" Walker) and the similar \"Semiothisa fissinotata\" Walker on hemlock, the small spruce loopers \"Eupithecia\" species, the spruce looper \"Caripeta divisata\" Walker, occasionally abundant, the transversebanded looper (\"Hydriomena divisaria\" Walker), and the whitelined looper (\"Eufidonia notataria\" Walker).\n\nWhite spruce is of major economic importance in Canada for its wood, harvested for paper-making and construction. It is also used to a small extent as a Christmas tree.\n\nThe wood is also exported to Japan where, known as \"shin-kaya\", it is used to make go boards as a substitute for the rare kaya wood.\n\nBlack Hills Spruce (\"Picea glauca\" var. \"densata\") is used for bonsai (see image).\n\nWhite spruce is the provincial tree of Manitoba and the state tree of South Dakota.\n\nSeveral geographical varieties have been described, but are not accepted as distinct by all authors. These comprise, from east to west:\n\nThe two western varieties are distinguished by pubescent (downy) shoots, and may be related to extensive hybridisation and/or intergradation with the closely related Engelmann spruce found further south in the Rocky Mountains. White spruce also hybridises readily with the closely related Sitka spruce where they meet in southern Alaska; this hybrid is known as \"Picea × lutzii\".\n\nNumerous cultivars of various sizes, colours and shapes have been selected for use in parks and gardens. The following have gained the Royal Horticultural Society's Award of Garden Merit. \n\n'Conica' is a dwarf conifer with very slender leaves, like those normally found only on one-year-old seedlings, and very slow growth, typically only per year. Older specimens commonly 'revert', developing normal adult foliage and starting to grow much faster; this 'reverted' growth must be pruned if the plant is to be kept dwarf.\n\nIsorhapontin can be found in spruce species such as the white spruce.\n"}
{"id": "45241548", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45241548", "title": "Propaganda in World War I", "text": "Propaganda in World War I\n\nWorld War I was the first war in which mass media and propaganda played a significant role in keeping the people at home informed about what was occurring on the battlefields. This was also the first war in which the government systematically produced propaganda as a way to target the public and alter their opinion.\nExternal propaganda to other countries was an integral part of the diplomatic history of World War I and was designed to build support for the cause, or to undermine support for the enemy.\n\nThe United States entered World War I in 1917 as an associated power on the allied side of Britain and France. By the time that World War I came around, the United States was a leader in the art of movie making and the new profession of commercial advertising. Such newly discovered technologies played an instrumental role in the shaping of the American mind and the altering of public opinion into a pro-war position. Perhaps the most influential man behind propaganda in the United States during World War I was President Woodrow Wilson. In one of Wilson's most famous declarations, he outlined the \"Fourteen Points\" which he said the United States would fight to defend. Aside from the restoration of freedom in European countries suppressed by the power of Germany, Wilson's Fourteen Points called for lack of transparency regarding discussion of diplomatic matters, free navigation of the seas both in peace and war time, and equal trade conditions among all nations. The Fourteen Points would serve as a blueprint for world peace to be used for peace negotiations after World War I. Wilson's points inspired audiences around the world and greatly strengthened the belief that Britain, France and America were fighting for noble goals.\n\nIn 1917 Wilson created the Committee on Public Information which was made up by the Secretaries of State, the Army, and the Navy. The committee would report directly to President Wilson and was essentially a massive generator of propaganda. The Committee on Public Information was responsible for producing films, commissioning posters, publishing numerous books and pamphlets, purchasing advertisements in major newspapers, and recruiting businessmen, preachers and professors to serve as public speakers in charge of altering public opinion at the communal level. The committee, headed by former investigative journalist George Creel, emphasized the message that America's involvement in the war was entirely necessary in achieving the salvation of Europe from the German and enemy forces. In his book titled \"How we Advertised America\", Creel states that the committee was called into existence to make World War I a fight that would be a \"verdict for mankind.\" He called the committee a voice that was created to plead the justice of America's cause before the jury of public opinion. Creel also refers to the committee as a \"vast enterprise in salesmenship\" and \"the world's greatest adventure in advertising.\" The committee's message resonated deep within every American community and also served as an organization responsible for carrying the full message of American ideals to every corner of the civilized globe. Creel and his committee utilized every possible mode to get their message across, including; printed word, spoken word, the motion picture, the telegraph, the poster and the sign board. All forms of communication were put to use in order to justify the causes that compelled America to take arms.\n\nCreel set out to systematically reach every person in the United States multiple times with patriotic information about how the individual could contribute to the war effort. The CPI also worked with the post office to censor seditious counter-propaganda. Creel set up divisions in his new agency to produce and distribute innumerable copies of pamphlets, newspaper releases, magazine advertisements, films, school campaigns, and the speeches of the Four Minute Men. The CPI created colorful posters that appeared in every store window, catching the attention of the passersby for a few seconds. Movie theaters were widely attended, and the CPI trained thousands of volunteer speakers to make patriotic appeals during the four-minute breaks needed to change reels. They also spoke at churches, lodges, fraternal organizations, labor unions, and even logging camps. Creel boasted that in 18 months his 75,000 volunteers delivered over 7.5 million four minute orations to over 300 million listeners, in a nation of 103 million people. The speakers attended training sessions through local universities, and were given pamphlets and speaking tips on a wide variety of topics, such as buying Liberty Bonds, registering for the draft, rationing food, recruiting unskilled workers for munitions jobs, and supporting Red Cross programs. Historians were assigned to write pamphlets and in-depth histories of the causes of the European war. \n\nAtrocity propaganda was a form of advertising used during World War I which focused on and embellished the most violent acts committed by the German and Austro-Hungarian armies. The Germans and Austro-Hungarian soldiers were depicted as inhumane savages with their barbarity being emphasized as a way to provide justification for the war. In 1914, prominent forensic scientist, R.A. Reiss was commissioned by the Serbian Prime Minister to conduct an investigation regarding war crimes. This was done as a way to depict the multiple acts of violence committed against civilians by the occupying Austro-Hungarian forces in Serbia in 1914. These reports were written in vivid detail and described individual acts of violence against civilians, soldiers and prisoners of war. Some of these actions included the use of forbidden weapons, the demolition of ancient libraries and cathedrals, as well as the rape and torture of civilians. Graphic illustrations, accompanied by first hand testimonies that described these crimes as savagely unjust served as a compelling reminder for the justification of war. Other forms of atrocity propaganda depicted an alternative to war which involved German occupation and domination. This was regarded as unacceptable across the political spectrum. As the Socialist Pioneer of Northampton put it in 1916, there could “be no peace while the frightful menace of world domination by force of German armed might looms about and above us”.\n\nPropaganda was used in World War One as in any war - and the truth suffered. Propaganda ensured that the people only got to know what their governments wanted them to know. In World War One, the lengths to which governments would go to in an effort to blacken the enemy’s name reached a new level. To ensure that everybody thought in the way the government wanted, all forms of information were controlled. Newspapers were expected to print what the government wanted the reader to read. In fact, though this would appear to be a form of censorship, the newspapers of Britain, effectively controlled by the media barons of the time, were happy to play ball. They printed headlines that were designed to stir up emotions regardless of whether they were accurate or not. The most infamous headlines included “Belgium child’s hands cut off by Germans” and “Germans crucify Canadian officer”.\n\nAccording to scholar David Welch, patriotism and nationalism were two of the most important themes played on by the propaganda of the time. In 1914, the British army was made up of professionals as well as volunteers, causing the government to rely heavily on propaganda as a tool to justify war to the public eye. This propaganda was used to promote recruitment into the armed forces as well as to convince civilians that if they joined, their sacrifices would be rewarded. One of the most impressionable images of this First World War is the “Your Country Needs You” poster, a distinctive recruitment poster of Lord Kitchener (similar to the later Uncle Sam poster) pointing at his British audience, convincing them to join the war effort. Another message deeply embedded in national sentiment was one where the religious symbolism of St George was shown slaying a dragon which represented the German forces. Images of enthusiastic patriotism seemed to encapsulate the tragedy of European and imperial populations. Such images were able to conjure up feelings of required patriotism and activism among those influenced.\n\nThe non-military diplomatic and propaganda interactions during the war were designed to build support for the cause, or to undermine support for the enemy. Wartime diplomacy focused on five issues: propaganda campaigns to shape news reports and commentary; defining and redefining the war goals, which became harsher as the war went on; luring neutral nations (Italy, Ottoman Empire, Bulgaria, Romania) into the coalition by offering slices of enemy territory; and encouragement by the Allies of nationalistic minority movements inside the Central Powers, especially among Czechs, Poles, and Arabs. In addition, there were multiple peace proposals coming from neutrals, or from one side or the other; none of them progressed very far. Some were neutral efforts to end the horrors. Others were propaganda ploys to show one side was being reasonable and the other was obstinate. \n\nAs soon as the war began Britain cut Germany’s under-sea communication cables as a way to ensure that the Allies had a monopoly on the most expedient means of transmitting news from Europe to press outlets in the United States. This was done as a way to influence reporting of the war around the world and to gain sympathy and support from the other nations. In 1914, a secret British organization by the name of Wellington House was set up, calling for journalists and newspaper editors to write articles which sympathized with Britain as a way to counter the statements being made by the enemy. Wellington House implemented this action not only through favorable reports in the press of neutral countries, but also by publishing its own newspapers for circulation around the globe. Wellington House was so secret, in fact, that Parliament was often not aware of them. Wellington House had a staff of 54 people, which made it the largest British foreign propaganda organization. From the Wellington House came the publication The War Pictorial, which by December 1916 reached a circulation of 500,000, covering 11 languages. The War Pictorial was deemed to have such a powerful effect on different masses that it could turn countries, like China, against Germany.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1858218", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1858218", "title": "Scientific drilling", "text": "Scientific drilling\n\nScientific drilling into the Earth is a way for scientists to probe the Earth's sediments, crust, and upper mantle. In addition to rock samples, drilling technology can unearth samples of connate fluids and of the subsurface biosphere, mostly microbial life, preserved in drilled samples. Most of the technology used for drilling come from advances in the oil and gas industry. Scientific drilling is carried out on land by the International Continental Scientific Drilling Program (ICDP) and at sea by the Integrated Ocean Drilling Program (IODP). Scientific drilling on the continents includes drilling down into solid ground as well as drilling from small boats on lakes. Sampling thick glaciers and ice sheets to obtain ice cores is related but will not be described further here.\n\nLike probes sent into outer space, scientific drilling is a technology used to obtain samples from places that people cannot reach. Human beings have descended as deep as 2,080 m (6,822 ft) in Voronya Cave, the world's deepest known cave, located in the Caucasus mountains of the country of Georgia. Gold miners in South Africa regularly go deeper than 3,400 m, but no human has ever descended to greater depths than this below the Earth's solid surface. As depth increases into the Earth, temperature and pressure rise. Temperatures in the crust increase about 15°C per kilometer, making it impossible for humans to exist at depths greater than several kilometers, even if it was somehow possible to keep shafts open in spite of the tremendous pressure. \n\nScientific drilling is interdisciplinary and international in scope. Individual scientists cannot generally undertake scientific drilling projects alone. Teamwork between scientists, engineers, and administrators is often required for success in planning and in carrying out a drilling project, analyzing the samples, and interpreting and publishing the results in scientific journals.\n\nScientific drilling is used to address a wide range of problems, which cannot be addressed using rocks exposed on the surface or on the seafloor. The Integrated Ocean Drilling Program has a broad set of research objectives, which can be divided into three principal themes: \n\nICDP focuses on scientific drilling to address the following questions about the history, chemistry, and physics of Earth and the biosphere:\n\nThe Kola Superdeep Borehole on the Kola peninsula of Russia reached and is the deepest penetration of the Earth's solid surface. The German Continental Deep Drilling Program at has shown the earth crust to be mostly porous. Drillings as deep as into the seafloor were achieved at DSDP/ODP/IODP Hole 504B. Because the continental crust is about 45 km thick on average, whereas oceanic crust is 6-7 km thick, deep drillings have penetrated only the upper 25-30% of both crusts.\n\nThe drillship that has been used for the past 20 and more years, the JOIDES Resolution, drills without a riser. Riser-less drilling uses seawater as its primary drilling fluid, which is pumped down through the drill pipe. This cleans and cools the drill bit and lifts cuttings out of the hole, piling them in a cone around the hole. Japan's new drillship, the Chikyu, uses a riser for drilling. The riser system includes an outer casing that surrounds the drill pipe, to provide return-circulation of drilling fluid for maintaining pressure balance within the borehole. A blowout preventer (BOP) protects the vessel and the environment from any unexpected release of gas and oil. This technology is necessary for drilling several thousand meters into the Earth and for drilling into thick sediments where oil and gas might reside.\n\n"}
{"id": "41310315", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41310315", "title": "Shower train", "text": "Shower train\n\nShower trains or bathing trains were specialized trains or train cars used throughout Europe to provide bathing facilities to troops stationed along the battlefront during the First World War.\n\nShower trains (known as Armeebadezug) were used in Switzerland. Each train consisted of old rolling stock from private railway companies: a locomotive, a tank car and converted passenger cars, each with a shower room and two cloakrooms. The water was taken from the tank car and heated by the locomotive.\n\nThis train served the thousands of Swiss militia protecting Switzerland's borders.\n\nSimilar bathing trains were used in the Russian Empire in 1914.\n"}
{"id": "661533", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=661533", "title": "Spatial Data Transfer Standard", "text": "Spatial Data Transfer Standard\n\nSpatial Data Transfer Standard, or SDTS, is a standard used to describe earth-referenced spatial data. It was designed to easily transfer and use spatial data on different computer platforms. The FGDC has proposed to withdraw the standard. \n\nThe USGS made an effort to promulgate the standard by making a large volume of data available at no cost and many companies supported the standard by writing translators to transform the data into different formats.\n\n"}
{"id": "28745", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28745", "title": "Styx", "text": "Styx\n\nIn Greek mythology, Styx (; ) is a deity and a river that forms the boundary between Earth and the Underworld, often called \"Hades\", which is also the name of its ruler. The rivers Styx, Phlegethon, Acheron, Lethe, and Cocytus all converge at the center of the underworld on a great marsh, which sometimes is also called the Styx. According to Herodotus, the river Styx originates near Feneos. Styx is also a goddess with prehistoric roots in Greek mythology as a daughter of Tethys, after whom the river is named and because of whom it had miraculous powers.\n\nThe deities of the Greek pantheon swore all their oaths upon the river Styx because, according to classical mythology, during the Titan war, Styx, the goddess of the river, sided with Zeus. After the war, Zeus declared that every oath must be sworn upon her. Zeus swore to give Semele whatever she wanted and was then obliged to follow through when he realized to his horror that her request would lead to her death. Helios similarly promised his son Phaëton whatever he desired, also resulting in the boy's death. Myths related to such early deities did not survive long enough to be included in historic records, but tantalizing references exist among those that have been discovered.\n\nAccording to some versions, Styx had miraculous powers and could make someone invulnerable. According to one tradition, Achilles was dipped in the waters of the river by his mother during his childhood, acquiring invulnerability, with exception of his heel, by which his mother held him. The only spot where Achilles was vulnerable was therefore that heel, where he was struck and killed by Paris's arrow during the Trojan War. This is the source of the expression \"Achilles' heel\", a metaphor for a vulnerable spot.\n\nStyx was primarily a feature in the afterworld of classical Greek mythology, similar to the Christian area of Hell in texts such as \"The Divine Comedy\" and \"Paradise Lost\". The ferryman Charon often is described as having transported the souls of the newly dead across this river into the underworld. Dante put Phlegyas as ferryman over the Styx and made it the fifth circle of Hell, where the wrathful and sullen are punished by being drowned in the muddy waters for eternity, with the wrathful fighting each other. \nIn ancient times some believed that a coin (Charon's obol) placed in the mouth of a dead person would pay the toll for the ferry across the river to the entrance of the underworld. It was said that if someone could not pay the fee, they would never be able to cross the river. The ritual was performed by the relatives of the dead.\n\nThe variant spelling Stix was sometimes used in translations of Classical Greek before the 20th century. By metonymy, the adjective \"stygian\" () came to refer to anything dark, dismal, and murky.\n\nStyx was the name of an Oceanid nymph, one of the three thousand daughters of Tethys and Oceanus, the goddess of the River Styx. In classical myths, her husband was Pallas and she gave birth to Zelus, Nike, Kratos, and Bia (and sometimes Eos). In these myths, Styx supported Zeus in the Titanomachy, where she was said to be the first to rush to his aid. For this reason, her name was given the honor of being a binding oath for the deities. Knowledge of whether this was the original reason for the tradition did not survive into historical records following the religious transition that led to the pantheon of the classical era.\n\nAs of 2 July 2013, Styx officially became the name of one of Pluto's moons. The other moons of Pluto (Charon, Nix, Hydra, and Kerberos) also have names from Greco-Roman mythology related to the underworld.\n"}
{"id": "31745558", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31745558", "title": "Sustainability studies", "text": "Sustainability studies\n\nSustainability studies focus on the interdisciplinary perspective of the sustainability concept. Programs include instruction in sustainable development, geography, environmental policies, ethics, ecology, landscape architecture, city and regional planning, economics, natural resources, sociology, and anthropology. Sustainability studies also focuses on the importance of climate change, poverty and development. Studies in Sustainability are now available in many different universities across America. The main goal of sustainability studies is for students to find ways to develop creative solutions to the crisis in environmental sustainability. \n\n"}
{"id": "1478634", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1478634", "title": "Systema Naturae", "text": "Systema Naturae\n\nThe tenth edition of this book (1758) is considered the starting point of zoological nomenclature. In 1766–1768 Linnaeus published the much enhanced 12th edition, the last under his authorship. Another again enhanced work in the same style and entitled \"\" was published by Johann Friedrich Gmelin between 1788 and 1793. Since at least the early 1900s zoologists commonly recognized this as the last edition belonging to this series. It was also officially regarded by the ICZN in Opinion 296 (26 Oct 1954) as the 13th edition of \"Systema Naturae\".\n\nLinnaeus (later known as \"Carl von Linné\", after his ennoblement in 1761) published the first edition of ' in the year 1735, during his stay in the Netherlands. As was customary for the scientific literature of its day, the book was published in Latin. In it, he outlined his ideas for the hierarchical classification of the natural world, dividing it into the animal kingdom ('), the plant kingdom ('), and the \"mineral kingdom\" (').\n\nLinnaeus's \"Systema Naturae\" lists only about 10,000 species of organisms, of which about 6,000 are plants and 4,236 are animals. According to the historian of botany William T. Stearn, \"Even in 1753 he believed that the number of species of plants in the whole world would hardly reach 10,000; in his whole career he named about 7,700 species of flowering plants.\"\n\nLinnaeus developed his classification of the plant kingdom in an attempt to describe and understand the natural world as a reflection of the logic of God's creation. His sexual system, where species with the same number of stamens were treated in the same group, was convenient but in his view artificial. Linnaeus believed in God's creation, and that there were no deeper relationships to be expressed. He is frequently quoted to have said: \"God created, Linnaeus organized\" (Latin: \"Deus creavit, Linnaeus disposuit\"). The classification of animals was more natural. For instance, humans were for the first time placed together with other primates, as Anthropomorpha.\n\nAs a result of the popularity of the work, and the number of new specimens sent to him from around the world, Linnaeus kept publishing new and ever-expanding editions of his work. It grew from eleven very large pages in the first edition (1735) to 2,400 pages in the 12th edition (1766–1768). Also, as the work progressed, he made changes: in the first edition, whales were classified as fishes, following the work of Linnaeus' friend and \"father of ichthyology\" Peter Artedi; in the 10th edition, published in 1758, whales were moved into the mammal class. In this same edition, he introduced two-part names (see binomen) for animal species, something that he had done for plant species (see binary name) in the 1753 publication of \"\". The system eventually developed into modern Linnaean taxonomy, a hierarchically organized biological classification.\n\nAfter Linnaeus' health declined in the early 1770s, publication of editions of \"Systema Naturae\" went in two directions. Another Swedish scientist, Johan Andreas Murray issued the \"Regnum Vegetabile\" section separately in 1774 as the \"Systema Vegetabilium\", rather confusingly labelled the 13th edition. Meanwhile, a 13th edition of the entire \"Systema\" appeared in parts between 1788 and 1793. It was as the \"Systema Vegetabilium\" that Linnaeus' work became widely known in England following translation from the Latin by the Lichfield Botanical Society, as \"A System of Vegetables\" (1783–1785).\n\nIn his ', Linnaeus established three kingdoms, namely ', ' and '. This approach, the Animal, Vegetable and Mineral Kingdoms, survives until today in the popular mind, notably in the form of parlour games: \"Is it animal, vegetable or mineral?\". The classification was based on five levels: kingdom, class, order, genus, and species. While species and genus was seen as God-given (or \"natural\"), the three higher levels were seen by Linnaeus as constructs. The concept behind the set ranks being applied to all groups was to make a system that was easy to remember and navigate, a task which most say he succeeded in.\nLinnaeus's work had a huge impact on science; it was indispensable as a foundation for biological nomenclature, now regulated by the Nomenclature Codes. Two of his works, the first edition of the ' (1753) for plants and the 10th edition of the \"Systema Naturæ\" (1758), are accepted among the starting points of nomenclature. Most of his names for species and genera were published at very early dates, thus take priority over those of other, later works. In zoology there is one exception, which is a monograph on Swedish spiders, ', published by Carl Clerck in 1757, so the names established there take priority over the Linnean names. However, his impact on science was not because of the value of his taxonomy. His talent for attracting skillful young students and sending them abroad to collect made his work far more influential than that of his contemporaries. At the close of the 18th century, his system had effectively become the standard system for biological classification.\n\nOnly in the Animal Kingdom is the higher taxonomy of Linnaeus still more or less recognizable and some of these names are still in use, but usually not quite for the same groups as used by Linnaeus. He divided the Animal Kingdom into six classes; in the tenth edition (1758), these were:\n\n\nThe orders and classes of plants, according to his ', were never intended to represent natural groups (as opposed to his ' in his \") but only for use in identification. They were used in that sense well into the 19th century.\n\nThe Linnaean classes for plants, in the Sexual System, were:\n\nLinnaeus's taxonomy of minerals has long since fallen out of use. In the 10th edition, 1758, of the \"\", the Linnaean classes were:\n\n\nThe Gmelin thirteenth (\"decima tertia\") edition of 1788–1793, is likely to be confused with another thirteenth edition prepared by Johan Andreas Murray in 1774, and then subsequently in further editions, all under a revised name of \"Systema Vegetabilium\".\n\nThe dates of publication for Gmelin's edition were the following: \n\n\n"}
{"id": "366294", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=366294", "title": "Tepui", "text": "Tepui\n\nA tepui , or tepuy (), is a table-top mountain or mesa found in the Guiana Highlands of South America, especially in Venezuela and western Guyana. The word tepui means \"house of the gods\" in the native tongue of the Pemon, the indigenous people who inhabit the Gran Sabana.\n\nTepuis tend to be found as isolated entities rather than in connected ranges, which makes them the host of a unique array of endemic plant and animal species. Some of the most outstanding tepuis are Neblina, Autana, Auyantepui and Mount Roraima. They are typically composed of sheer blocks of Precambrian quartz arenite sandstone that rise abruptly from the jungle, giving rise to spectacular natural scenery. Auyantepui is the source of Angel Falls, the world's tallest waterfall.\n\nThese table-top mountains are the remains of a large sandstone plateau that once covered the granite basement complex between the north border of the Amazon Basin and the Orinoco, between the Atlantic coast and the Rio Negro. This area is part of the remnants of the supercontinent Gondwana.Throughout the course of the history of Earth, the plateau was eroded, and the tepuis were formed from the remaining monadnocks.\n\nThere are 115 such mesas in the Gran Sabana in the south-east of Venezuela on the border with Guyana and Brazil, where the highest concentration of tepuis is found. The precipitous mountains tower over the surrounding area by up to .\n\nTepuis range in elevation from . The total surface area of all 115 tepuis is approximately 5000 km2, or the size of Trinidad.\nBecause of their great age, some tepuis exhibit surface features and subsurface caves typical of karst topography, formed in more water-soluble rocks such as limestone. Caves here include the Abismo Guy Collet, the deepest quartzite cave in the world. Some of the mesas are pocked with giant sinkholes up to in diameter and with sheer walls up to deep. These sinkholes are formed when the roofs of tunnels carved by underground rivers collapse.\n\nThe plateaus of the tepuis are completely isolated from the ground forest, making them ecological islands. The altitude causes them to have a different climate from the ground forest. The top presents cool temperatures with frequent rainfall, while the bases of the mountains have a tropical, warm and humid climate. The isolation has led to the presence of endemic flora and fauna through evolution over millennia of a different world of animals and plants, cut off from the rest of the world by the imposing rock walls. Some tepui sinkholes contain species that have evolved in these \"islands within islands\" that are unique to that sinkhole. The tepuis are often referred to as the Galápagos Islands of the mainland, having a large number of unique plants and animals not found anywhere else in the World. The floors of the mesas are poor in nutrients, which has led to a rich variety of carnivorous plants, as well as a wide variety of orchids and bromeliads. The weathered, craggy nature of the rocky ground means no layers of humus are formed.\n\nIt has been hypothesized that endemics on tepuis represent relict fauna and flora that underwent vicariant speciation when the plateau got fragmented over geological time. However, recent studies suggest that tepuis are not as isolated as originally believed. For example, an endemic group of treefrogs, \"Tepuihyla\", have diverged after the tepuis were formed, that is, speciation followed colonization from the lowlands.\n\nThe tepuis, also known as 'islands above the rainforest', are a challenge for researchers, as they are home to a high number of new species that have yet to be described. A few of these mountains are cloaked by thick clouds almost the whole year round. Their surfaces could previously only be photographed by helicopter radar equipment.\n\nMany tepuis are in the Canaima National Park in Venezuela, which has been classified as a World Heritage Site by UNESCO.\n\nA few of the most notable of the 60 tepuis:\n\n\nThe hypothesis that endemic fauna and flora of tepuis represent remnants of ancient species was an inspiration to Arthur Conan Doyle's novel \"The Lost World\" (1912), which was set on a tepui.\n\nMuch of the story of Pixar–Disney film \"Up\" takes place among the tepuis. The film also includes depictions of the numerous rock formations and an Angel Falls-like waterfall called \"Paradise Falls\".\n\nSteve Backshall was part of the first expedition to successfully climb Mount Upuigma. The expedition was part of the program \"Lost Land of the Jaguar\" on BBC One in 2008. On the summit they discovered an endemic species of frog and mouse, and also footprints of an unidentified mammal.\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "514937", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=514937", "title": "Turtles all the way down", "text": "Turtles all the way down\n\n\"Turtles all the way down\" is an expression of the problem of infinite regress. The saying alludes to the mythological idea of a World Turtle that supports the earth on its back. It suggests that this turtle rests on the back of an even larger turtle, which itself is part of a column of increasingly large turtles that continues indefinitely (i.e., \"turtles all the way down\"). \n\nThe exact origin of the phrase is uncertain. In the form \"rocks all the way down\", the saying appears as early as 1838. References to the saying's mythological antecedents, the World Turtle and its counterpart the World Elephant, were made by a number of authors in the 17th and 18th centuries. This mythology is frequently assumed to have originated in ancient India and other Hinduist beliefs.\n\nThe expression has been used to illustrate problems such as the \"unmoved mover\" paradox in cosmology and the regress argument in epistemology.\n\nEarly variants of the saying do not always have explicit references to infinite regression (i.e., the phrase \"all the way down\"). They often reference stories featuring a World Elephant, World Turtle, or other similar creatures that are claimed to come from Hindu mythology. The first known reference to a Hindu source is found in a letter by Jesuit Emanual de Veiga (1549–1605), written at Chandagiri on 18 September 1599, in which the relevant passage reads:\n\nVeiga's account seems to have been received by Samuel Purchas, who has a close paraphrase in his \"Purchas His Pilgrims\" (1613/1626), \n\"that the Earth had nine corners, whereby it was borne up by the Heaven. Others dissented, and said, that the Earth was borne up by seven Elephants; the Elephants' feet stood on Tortoises, and they were borne by they know not what.\" Purchas' account is again reflected by John Locke in his 1689 tract \"An Essay Concerning Human Understanding\", where Locke introduces the story as a trope referring to the problem of induction in philosophical debate. Locke compares one who would say that properties inhere in \"Substance\" to the Indian who said the world was on an elephant which was on a tortoise, \"But being again pressed to know what gave support to the broad-back'd Tortoise, replied, something, he knew not what\". The story is also referenced by Henry David Thoreau, who writes in his journal entry of 4 May 1852: \"Men are making speeches ... all over the country, but each expresses only the thought, or the want of thought, of the multitude. No man stands on truth. They are merely banded together as usual, one leaning on another and all together on nothing; as the Hindoos made the world rest on an elephant, and the elephant on a tortoise, and had nothing to put under the tortoise.\"\n\nIn the form of \"rocks all the way down\", the saying dates to at least 1838, when it was printed in an unsigned anecdote in the \"New-York Mirror\" about a schoolboy and an old woman living in the woods:\nA version of the saying in its \"turtle\" form appeared in an 1854 transcript of remarks by preacher Joseph Frederick Berg addressed to Joseph Barker:\n\nMany 20th-century attributions claim that William James is the source of the phrase. James referred to the fable of the elephant and tortoise several times, but told the infinite regress story with \"rocks all the way down\" in his 1882 essay, \"Rationality, Activity and Faith\":\nThe linguist John R. Ross also associates James with the phrase:\nThe metaphor is used as an example of the problem of infinite regress in epistemology to show that there is a necessary foundation to knowledge, as written by Johann Gottlieb Fichte in 1794:\n\nDavid Hume references the story in his \"Dialogues Concerning Natural Religion\" when arguing against God as an unmoved mover:\n\nBertrand Russell also mentions the story in his 1927 lecture \"Why I Am Not a Christian\" while discounting the First Cause argument intended to be a proof of God's existence:\n\nReferences to \"turtles all the way down\" have been made in a variety of modern contexts. For example, \"Turtles All the Way Down\" is the name of a song by country artist Sturgill Simpson that appears on his 2014 album \"Metamodern Sounds in Country Music\". \"Turtles All The Way Down\" is also the title of a 2017 novel by John Green about a teenage girl with obsessive compulsive disorder.\nStephen Hawking incorporates the saying into the beginning of his 1988 book \"A Brief History of Time\":\n\nJustice Antonin Scalia of the U.S. Supreme Court discussed his \"favored version\" of the saying in a footnote to his plurality opinion in \"Rapanos v. United States\":\n\n"}
{"id": "3392541", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3392541", "title": "Zanahary", "text": "Zanahary\n\nZanahary is the personified sky of Malagasy mythologies and folklores. He (usually male, but sometimes considered genderless) is considered a creator god, having collaborated with the earth god Ratovantany to create humanity; upon death, the soul migrates to the firmament, while the body returns to the earth. For this reason, Zanahary is closely associated with the soul in the indigenous theology as well as ancestor worship. He is a national god of the Merina people, and frequently henceforth appealed to by Malagasy nationalist groups; most notably Ranavalona I promoted the worship of this god over Christianity.\n\nThe Bara people and Betsimisaraka people possess a myth in which the role of Zanahary is taken by the personified sun, which accepts souls after death; however Zanahary is typically assumed to be devoid of solar characteristics. Similarly there is an \"earth Zanahary\" in contrast to the sky.\n"}
