{"id": "7916496", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7916496", "title": "Amik Valley", "text": "Amik Valley\n\nThe Amik, Amuk, or Amuq Valley ( \"al-A’maq\") is located in the southern part of Turkey, in the Hatay Province, close to the city of Antakya (Antioch on the Orontes). Along with Dabiq in north western Syria, it is believed to be one of the future sites of the battle of Armageddon according to Islamic eschatology. \n\nIt is notable for a series of archaeological sites in the \"plain of Antioch\".\nThe primary sites of the series are Tell al-Judaidah, Çatalhöyük (Amuq) (not to be confused with Çatalhöyük in Anatolia), Tell Tayinat, Tell Kurdu, Alalakh, and Tell Dhahab. Tell Judaidah was surveyed by Robert Braidwood and excavated by C. MacEwan of the Oriental Institute of the University of Chicago in the 1930s.\n\nAbu Hurayrah, a companion of the Prophet Muhammad, reported in a hadith that the Prophet said:\n\nIslamic scholars and hadith commentators suggest that the word \"Romans\" refers to Christians. The hadith further relates the subsequent Muslim victory, followed by the peaceful takeover of Constantinople with invocations of takbir and tasbih, and finally the defeat of the Anti-Christ following the return and descent of Jesus Christ. Other hadiths relate the appearance of Imam Mahdi immediately before the Second Coming of Jesus.\n\n"}
{"id": "14347568", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14347568", "title": "Anagarika", "text": "Anagarika\n\nIn Buddhism, an anagārika (Pali, \"homeless one\", ; f. \"anagārikā\" ) is a person who has given up most or all of their worldly possessions and responsibilities to commit full-time to Buddhist practice. It is a midway status between a bhikkhu or bhikkhuni (fully ordained monastics) and laypersons. An anagārika takes the Eight Precepts, and might remain in this state for life.\n\nAnagārikas usually wear white clothes or robes, depending on the tradition they follow. Some traditions have special ordination ceremonies for anagārikas, while others simply take the eight precepts with a special intention.\n\nGiven the lack of full ordination for women in modern Theravada Buddhism, women who wish to renounce live as anagārikās under names such as maechi in Thailand, thilashin in Myanmar, and dasa sil mata in Sri Lanka. They make take the Eight or Ten Precepts. In Vajrayana Buddhism, many nuns are technically anagārikās or śrāmaṇerikās (novitiates).\n\nIn monastic settings, lay attendants for monks or nuns are needed. The monastic rules restrict monks and nuns from many tasks that might be needed, including the use of money, driving, cooking, digging and cutting plants, so lay attendants help bridge this gap. Anagārikas differ from laity by their commitment to Buddhism, to their precepts, and to monastics. There is usually a notable difference in their manner, appearance and attire. In many cases, they are full-time residents at the vihara where they ordained. Anagārikas often have the intention of becoming a monk or nun at a later point, though not always. In some monasteries a period as an anagārika, often one year, is required in order to take novice ordination. \n\nThe main difference between the Eight Precepts of an anagārika and the Ten Precepts of a novitiate is the rule of not handling money. Therefore, anagārika ordinations usually take place in viharas where the vinaya (monastic rules), including the rules about not handling money, are strictly followed.\n\n"}
{"id": "6266776", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6266776", "title": "Antonin Gadal", "text": "Antonin Gadal\n\nAntonin Gadal (1877–1962) was a French mystic and historian who dedicated his life to study of the Cathars in the south of France, their spirituality, beliefs and ideology.\n\nGadal was born in 1877 in the Pyrenean town of Tarascon in the Ariège region in the south of France, which was one of the centres of the heretical gnostic Christian movement known as the Cathars or the Albigensians in the 12th and 13th Centuries. Another major Cathar centre, Montségur, the castle where their leaders made their last stand against the Crusaders, is not far away to the north-east. Montaillou, the village which continued as a secret community of Cathars until the 14th Century and the Inquisition's records of which went up to make Emmanuel Le Roy Ladurie's book \"Montaillou: Promised Land of Error\" (1975), is also nearby.\n\nGadal grew up in a house next to the Tarasconian historian Adolphe Garrigou who specialised in the history of the Cathars (along with his son he is honoured by a plaque on the building he lived in one of the squares in Tarascon). Garrigou saw himself as a preserver of the memory of the Christian sect and, seeing a kindred spirit in the young man took him under his wing as an inheritor of his knowledge. As an adult, Gadal worked as a schoolteacher but his fascination with the Cathars lead him to work for the Tourist Board Of Ussat Ornolac. In doing so he was able to explore the Pyrenean caves himself, which he believed were hiding places and sites of worship for the Cathars. Through his investigations he developed a detailed picture of what he believed were the inner mysteries of their faith. Otto Rahn, the Nazi historian and occultist, is believed to have approached him in his own quest for the secrets of the Cathars (Rahn believed that the Cathars were the trustees of the Holy Grail). Although some have suggested that Gadal refused to assist Rahn, it seems likely that in fact Gadal personally took Rahn on a tour of the various Cathar Cave locations.\n\nGadal also worked with an English student of the Cathars, Walter Birks, and their association is described in the book \"The Treasure of Montségur\" by Birks and his collaborator R. A. Gilbert (1987). It is not always clear whether the assertions in this book are by Birks, or by the younger scholar Gilbert, who held strong views about Gadal's work.\n\nGadal's belief was that the spirituality of the Cathars traced back through various Gnostic beliefs (such as Manicheanism, Christian Gnosticism) to the most ancient sources of the Western Mystery Tradition - the Essenes, Hermeticism, the Egyptian Mysteries and so on - but seen in a Christian context. He argued that in the Ariège basin, and particularly the Lombrives caves, Cathar Perfecti (the spiritual elite of the movement) underwent a three-year period of initiation in which they experienced a transformation of the human soul, much like that experienced by Christ in the Gospels - Transfiguration, Death & Resurrection. Transformed by the Holy Spirit, the Perfecti then went out into the world, having 'died' to it, to spread the Cathar faith and minister to the Credentes, or Believers. Gadal's belief was that this process of Initiation was contained within the Christian message of the Gospels and the cycle of the Christ story and was the hidden meaning of the Grail Legend.\n\nThrough his interest in the Gnostic Christianity of the Cathars and his belief in its connection with an ancient tradition, in his later years Gadal made contact with the leaders of the neo-Gnostic, Christian Rosicrucian movement, the Lectorium Rosicrucianum - Jan van Rijckenborgh and Catharose de Petri. Gadal's theories and ideas subsequently became a very important element in the cosmology of the Lectorium and to this day members of the society embark on pilgrimages to the Ariège and the Lombrives caves every five years.\n\nAs well as his work in the Ariège region, Gadal travelled widely through Europe and the world lecturing on the Cathars, his findings and theories, many of which were rejected by academics as being too mystical or speculative. His books include \"The Inheritance of the Cathars\" and \"On the Path to the Holy Grail\" (), both printed by the Rosycross Press, the printing arm of the Lectorium. He died in 1962.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "323292", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=323292", "title": "Beit Shemesh", "text": "Beit Shemesh\n\nBeit Shemesh (,; ; , \"Beth Shamesh\", \"Bethshamesh\" or \"Bet shemesh\" and most often Beth-Shemesh in English translations of the Hebrew Bible) is a city located approximately west of Jerusalem in Israel's Jerusalem District, with a population of in . The history of Beit Shemesh goes back to pre-biblical times. The modern city of Beit Shemesh was founded in 1950.\n\nThe ancient city of Beit Shemesh (\"house of the sun\" or \"temple of the sun\" in Hebrew) was originally named after the Canaanite sun-goddess Shemesh, who was worshipped there in antiquity. The ruins of the ancient biblical city are located at a site called Tel Beit Shemesh (Tell er-Rumeileh), a tell located near the modern city. In the Amarna letters Shamash is mentioned several times, along with Addu, as one of the greatest gods: the Pharaoh is \"like Addu and Shamash\". The name Beth-Shemesh was shared by (at least) two other places in Palestine and one more in Egypt.\n\nBeit Shemesh is first mentioned in the Hebrew Bible in the Book of Joshua, as a city in the territory of the tribe of Judah on the border between their territory and that of the tribe of Dan. In , this city was set aside as one of the 13 Kohanic cities for the priests of the tribe of Levi, the Kohanim.\n\nAnother city by the same name, Beit Shemesh, is later mentioned in , being situated in the territory of the tribe of Naphtali.\n\nThe city located in the territorial bounds of the tribe of Judah is mentioned in the 6th chapter of 1 Samuel as being the first city encountered by the Ark of the Covenant on its way back from Philistia after having been captured by the Philistines in battle. The stone on which the Ark was placed is recorded as still being located there at the time of writing the Books of Samuel. In the King James Version this stone is described as \"the great stone of Abel\".\n\nIn 2 Kings 14, Beit Shemesh is again mentioned as being the site of the battle between Amaziah king of Judea and Jehoash king of Israel.\n\nAfter the destruction of much of Judah by Sennacherib in 701 BCE, the city was abandoned for a while, but there seems to have been an attempt by a group of Judahites at resettling Beth Shemesh, judging by the refurbishing of the water reservoir in the 7th century BCE. However, after the Babylonian conquest of Judah in the early 580s, either the new Babylonian rulers, or the nearby Philistine metropolis of Ekron favoured by them, apparently put an end to the initiative by sealing and covering over the vital water reservoir, which was not uncovered until 2004. During the first Jewish return, at the beginning of the Second Temple period, there was no lasting revival of the city, as opposed to many other places in the vicinity such as Beit Guvrin, Maresha, and others. Consequently, the small Arab towns of Dayr Raban and Dayr Rafat used rocks for building from this very ancient source.\n\nA monastery and other remains from the Byzantine period have been found on the tell.\n\nIn the late 19th century the area was known as 'Ain Shems or Khirbet 'Ain Shems and was used as a temporary harvest-time residence by local Arabs. The small mosque of Abu Mizar stood there.\n\nDuring the 1948 Arab–Israeli War, the Egyptian army invaded the area and set up a fortified post, called \"Mishlat\" in Hebrew, on a hill overlooking Beit Shemesh, within the Arab-village Dayr Aban. The post changed hands several times during fighting. The Harel Brigade occupied part of the post for several months giving rise to the name \"the joint post\" or the \"Mishlat HaMeshutaf\" with 60 meters dividing them and the enemy forces. The Mishlat was finally taken by the Harel force in the Ha-Har offensive during the night of 19–20 October 1948.\n\nBeit Shemesh is the point from which the so-called Convoy of 35 set out to bring provisions to besieged Gush Etzion. On 15 January 1948 a group of 38 Palmach volunteers left Hartuv near Beit Shemesh. After one member of the group sprained his ankle, the group, now numbering 35, continued on its way. Their presence was discovered by two Arab women who encountered two scouts of the group near Surif; an earlier version, that the soldiers were discovered by an Arab shepherd who they graciously let go, was based on a eulogy written by Ben-Gurion and is apparently apocryphal).\nOn 6 December 1950, the Hartuv displaced persons camp \"Ma'abarat Har-Tuv\" was established on the site of the current-day Moshav Naham. The first inhabitants were Jewish Bulgarian immigrants. They were joined by more Jewish immigrants from Bulgaria, Iran, Iraq, Romania, Morocco and Kurdistan. In 1952 the first permanent houses were built in Beit Shemesh. Prior to 1948 the Ramat Beit Shemesh neighborhood area was the site belonging to the Arab village Bayt Nattif. This village was built on remnants of an ancient Judean town, with various remnants of Jewish settlement from the time, such as a mosaic floor, wineries and other remains, especially from the period of the Hasmonean kings and earlier. This area is currently under dispute about preservation, having been the subject of a grassroots campaign.\n\nIn its early years, Beit Shemesh came to typify the \"Development Town\" with a largely North African immigrant population. In 1977, following a writeup in Haaretz newspaper, Beit Shemesh was perceived as the main outpost for Menachem Begin's Likud party. He promised to rehabilitate neighborhoods and when Likud came to power that year, investment in the city increased.\n\nThe Israel Police maintains a bomb disposal specialist unit and training center in Beit Shemesh.\n\nWhen the city was built in the 1950s, it was initially settled by new immigrants from Iran, Iraq, Romania, Bulgaria, Morocco and Iraqi Kurdistan. In the 1990s, the city saw a large influx of new immigrants from the former Soviet Union, Ethiopia and English-speaking countries, turning it into a major center for Anglo immigrants. Considerable numbers have come from North America, the United Kingdom, South Africa and Australia. This population tends to be Orthodox, educated and from middle income groups. At the same time, Orthodox Jews from within Israel also began moving to the city, seeking roomier, low-cost housing.\n\nAccording to a city councillor, there were no Haredim in Beit Shemesh before the 1990s. Since then, Beit Shemesh has become increasingly religious, with a large Haredi sector. Many synagogues and yeshivas have been built in the city. Religious communities represented in Beit Shemesh include Ger, Belz, Shomer Emunim, Satmar and Neturei Karta. In 2011 Haredim made up 40% of the population, of which an estimated 50 or 60 families with great influence are militant. According to statistics published by the municipality, 63% of the city's schoolchildren in 2010 were Haredim. 75% of the children entering the first grade in the 2012/2013 academic year will be registered in official Haredi institutions.\n\nThe population of Beit Shemesh is expected to reach 150,000 in 2020.\n\nTwo new areas, the Nahala UMenucha neighborhood, and Ramat Beit Shemesh, were built in the 1990s, doubling the size of the city.\n\nRamat Beit Shemesh (\"Beit Shemesh Heights\") is an expansion that lies directly adjacent to, and to the south of, the original part of Beit Shemesh, colloquially referred to as \"Old Beit Shemesh\". It is located on a hill overlooking the old town. Ramat Beit Shemesh has a large, diverse Orthodox population. Originally, it consisted of two areas: \"Ramat Beit Shemesh Alef\" and \"Ramat Beit Shemesh Bet\". In \"Ramat Beit Shemesh Bet\", families belonging to Eda Haredit constitute the majority. In 2002, following tensions between the Haredi and non-religious population, plans were drawn up to build another secular neighborhood, HaShachar. In 2007, Ramat Shilo, considered a subdistrict of Ramat Beit Shemesh, with both Dati Leumi and Haredi residents was built. In 2009, it was announced that a new neighborhood, \"Ramat Beit Shemesh Gimmel\", would be built as a largely Haredi neighborhood on a large block of state-owned land bordering southern Beit Shemesh. In 2016 the Israeli Land Authority published tenders for 3,268 new apartments, to be built in the newly proposed areas of \"Ramat Beit Shemesh Dalet and Hey.\" According to plans, ultimately there are to be 8,300 new apartments in \"RBS Dalet\" alone.\n\nBeit Shemesh also has an urban kibbutz affiliated with the Kibbutz Movement, Tamuz, founded in 1987.\n\nThe large English-speaking community is concentrated in Ramat Beit Shemesh Alef, as well as in the Sheinfeld, Nofei Aviv, Migdal HaMayim and Givat Sharett neighborhoods of \"Old Beit Shemesh\".\nBeit Shemesh is developing rapidly, and under a current masterplan approved by the Israeli government in 2017, Beit Shemesh will double in population, to more than 200,000 residents, with 17,000 new housing units built along with 130 acres zoned as new commercial space for businesses and hotels. It is expected that the city could be home to as many as 250,000 residents by 2025. A new commercial center in the Ramat Beit Shemesh neighborhood is planned to be the city's largest.\n\nThe mayor of Beit Shemesh, Moshe Abutbul, is a member of Shas. The deputy-mayor, Shmuel Greenberg, is a member of United Torah Judaism (UTJ). \"Haaretz\" quotes Abutbul as saying: \"Beit Shemesh is not a Haredi city and will not be one.\" In the 2009 elections, Shas and UTJ won nine seats in the 21-seat municipal council, one seat went to a new Haredi party called Tov.\n\nFormerly a Likud stronghold, in the 2006 Knesset elections United Torah Judaism became the city's strongest party, with 22.2 percent of the votes and Shas getting 19.9 percent. In 2009 Likud regained its primacy, obtaining 22.2 percent of the votes, and Shas also gained, garnering 20.9 percent, with United Torah Judaism a close third at 20.6 percent. Eda Haredit boycott the elections.\n\nDuring the municipal elections held on 22 October 2013, acting on several anonymous tips, police raided several private residences and recovered 200 ID cards and disguising materials such as hats, glasses and wigs which law enforcement suspected were used or going to be used for fraudulent voting. Additionally, eight people were arrested on suspicion for engaging and coordinating fraudulent voting activities.\n\nOn 10 December 2013 a three judge panel of the Jerusalem District Court nullified the results of the October municipal elections due to voter fraud and ordered a new election.\n\nFollowing an unprecedented 76% voter turnout rate, incumbent mayor Moshe Abutbul beat contender Eli Cohen with a 51% majority vote during the reelection which took place on 11 March 2014. \nIn 2001, there were 56 schools and 14,148 students in the city: 41 elementary schools with 10,716 elementary school students, and 20 high schools with 3,432 high school students. 40.3% of 12th grade students were entitled to a matriculation certificate.\n\nBeit Shemesh has two industrial zones containing mainly small industry, particularly in the Northern industrial zone which is typified by carpentry and metalwork workshops, garages and wholesale and retail outlets. The Western industrial zone contains several larger companies including Beit Shemesh Engines Ltd. (BSEL) which manufactures and repairs jet engines and jet engine components, Barzellan and others. Nearby in the Noham industrial zone are situated various other factories and offices. Since the hi-tech boom of 1996–2001 Beit Shemesh has been host to several hi-tech startups including Omek Interactive.\n\nBeit Shemesh Railway Station provides hourly service on the Israel Railways Herzliya–Jerusalem line. The station is located in the north industrial zone of Beit Shemesh. It was reopened on 13 September 2003, having existed for over a century at the same location. The station has three platforms.\n\nBus transportation within Beit Shemesh and most inter-city routes is operated by Superbus, which began service on 5 January 2009. The Egged Bus Cooperative, which previously operated all bus service in and to Beit Shemesh, still operates a limited number of bus lines from Beit Shemesh to Jerusalem.\n\nBeit Shemesh is home to numerous sports clubs all under the main sport associations (Beitar, Hapoel, and Maccabi). The city has soccer teams including juniors, seniors and over-35s teams and boasted a franchise in the Israel Baseball League. The Beit Shemesh Blue Sox represented Beit Shemesh in the league's only season, though they played their games at Gezer Field in Kibbutz Gezer due to a lack of proper facilities in Beit Shemesh. There is also a very active Little League in Beit Shemesh and Ramat Beit Shemesh, with over 300 members.\nIn the field of judo, Elitzur Beit Shemesh has won many prizes. Israel Kung Fu and world Nunchaku champion (2001) Eli Ivgi was born in and lives in Beit Shemesh.\nConstruction of a regulation-sized baseball field in Bet Shemesh is planned. The ground-breaking ceremony taking place on January 6th, 2017. \n\nOn 13 March 1997, seven 13 and 14-year-old girls from Beit Shemesh's AMIT Feurst School were killed at the \"Island of Peace\" site in Naharayim by a Jordanian soldier while they were visiting the joint Israeli and Jordanian tourist resort under Jordanian rule on a class trip. King Hussein of Jordan went to Beit Shemesh a few days after the massacre to extend his condolences and ask forgiveness in the name of his country, a step which was seen as both courageous and touching.\n\nIn 2004 the Israel Association of Ethiopian Jews claimed that Ethiopian Jews working for the municipality were being paid below-minimum wages.\nIn 2011, the Association criticized the referral of Ethiopian Jews to three private pre-schools run by the mayor's wife.\n\nAccording to the \"Jerusalem Post\", women who belong to a Haredi burqa sect in Beit Shemesh were ostracized by the Haredi community. The leader of the movement, dubbed the \"Taliban mother\" by the Israeli press, was convicted by the Jerusalem District Court in 2009 on three counts of abuse of a minor and 25 counts of assault in aggravated circumstances, and sentenced to four years in prison. Her husband was also convicted of 10 counts of assault and three counts of abuse of a minor or helpless person, and was sentenced to six months in jail.\n\nIn 2011, conflicts erupted in Beit Shemesh between extremist ultra-Orthodox men, possibly members of a group known as the Sikrikim, and other residents of the town due to gender separation at local health clinics, and so called ‘mehadrin buses’ where men sit in the front and women in the back.\n\nWhen the municipality removed a sign asking women to stay away from a synagogue, hundreds of Haredi men staged riots in which they attacked police officers and reporters. Several placards urging segregation between men and women were put back after being removed by the police.\n\nAfter the opening of Orot Banot national-religious girls’ school in September 2011, groups of Haredi extremists gathered in front of the school, calling the girls names and spitting at them when they headed to and from school. Stones hurled at a boys' school belonging to the same educational network injured a boy in the leg. Two men were arrested on suspicion of throwing eggs and tomatoes at students. In a demonstration outside the school a female journalist was assaulted by young Haredi men who cursed and spat at her, and a clash with parents of girls studying at the school was broken up by the police force.\n\nIn December 2011, a public outcry was raised when a television news channel interviewed 8-year old Na'ama Margolese, who was cursed and spat at on her way to school by Haredi extremists.\n\"The Jewish Daily Forward\" reported that the issue is really a property dispute over ownership of the school building. Some Haredi women distributed flowers to the girls of Orot Banot school, telling them \"sister to sister\" that they were beautiful. On 27 December 2011, a protest against extremism near the Orot Banot school drew 10,000 people. After the incidents in Beit Shemesh were reported in foreign press, the US State Department updated its Jerusalem travel advisory advising visitors to \"dress appropriately\" when visiting ultra-Orthodox Jewish neighborhoods, or to avoid them entirely.\nNa'ama's mother Hadassah Margolese who has repeatedly spoken out on behalf of national religious Beit Shemesh residents against Haredi tendencies, including about an occurrence in which little girls' faces were blurred out on Purim advertisements distributed in her neighborhood, and a humiliating experience at the ritual bath reportedly left Beit Shemesh with her family in late July 2013 after being attacked by members of her own national religious community who accused her of exposing the community to public shame.\n\nin February 2015 Judge David Gideoni accepted a claim filed by four women who protested an illegal \"modesty sign\" posted in Ramat Beit Shemesh Bet. The judge ordered Mayor Moshe Abutbul and the Beit Shemesh Municipality to pay each of the women complainants NIS 15,000. The city then saw further signs of \"religious radicalization\" when the word \"woman\" was repeatedly erased from a sign at a women's health center.\n\nIn 1971, excavations at Givat Sharett conducted by Israeli archaeologist Claire Epstein revealed a residential settlement of the Middle Bronze Age, including a temple.\n\nThe most ancient iron workshop in the world was discovered in Beit Shemesh in 2003. The only remnants of a fortified city with an advanced water system, from the time of the early Kingdom of Judah was found here. The bones of animals found in the 12th–11th centuries BCE layer indicate a diet typical of the Israelites who inhabited the hill country in this period. These together with the pottery finds indicate the cultural influences on the inhabitants of this border town. However, it is not possible to determine their specific ethnic identity, which could be Canaanite, Philistine or Israelite.\n\nIn August 2012 archaeologists from Tel Aviv University announced the discovery of a circular stone seal, approximately 15 millimetres in diameter. The seal was found on the floor of a house at Beit Shemesh and is dated to the 12th century BCE. According to Haaretz, \"excavation directors Prof. Shlomo Bunimovitz and Dr. Zvi Lederman of Tel Aviv University say they do not suggest that the human figure on the seal is the biblical Samson. Rather, the geographical proximity to the area where Samson lived, and the time period of the seal, show that a story was being told at the time of a hero who fought a lion, and that the story eventually found its way into the biblical text and onto the seal.\"\n\nAnimal bones found nearby may also be a clue to boundary disputes between different cultures. Pig bones have been found a few kilometres from Beit Shemesh, but only a few have been found actually at Beit Shemesh and at some point during the 11th century BCE it appears that the local population stopped eating pig. Haaretz reports that \"According to Bunimovitz, when the pork-eating Philistines arrived in the country from the Aegean, the local people stopped eating pork to differentiate themselves from the newcomers.\"\n\nIn 2014, archaeologists Irene Zilberbod and Tehila Libman announced the nearby discovery of a large compound from the Byzantine period that was most probably a monastery. It comprised a residential area and an industrial area with wine and olive presses. The remains of buildings with two or three stories and impressive mosaic floors were discovered. The compound ceased to function in the early Muslim period and was subsequently occupied by other residents.\nThe excavations were continuing with additional finds through late 2017.\n\nBeit Shemesh is a Sister City of:\nIn the Partnership 2gether program of the Jewish Agency for Israel, Beit Shemesh and the Mateh Yehuda Regional Council are linked to South Africa and Washington, D.C.\n\nAfter the \"Washington Post\" reported in October 2011 that Montgomery County, Maryland was considering a partnership with Beit Shemesh, a local coalition, Human Rights Matter!, objected. The campaign was supported by the Mossawa Center, an organization that defines its goal as the promotion of equality for the Arab minority in Israel but which has been criticized for its rejection of Israel as a Jewish state and its foreign funding from the European Commission, George Soros's Open Society Institute and the New Israel Fund, among others, as well as Nobel Peace Prize laureate Mairead Maguire.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "8205631", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8205631", "title": "Billy Burke (evangelist)", "text": "Billy Burke (evangelist)\n\nBilly Burke (born May 24, 1953) is an American Pentecostal healing evangelist and the president of his itinerant healing ministry, Billy Burke World Outreach, headquartered in Tampa, FL. Burke is also the senior pastor of the Miracle Center World Outreach in Tampa. His healing ministry is founded on his testimony of being healed of terminal brain cancer when he was 9 years old.\n\nBilly Burke was born in Greensburg, PA. When he was 9 years old, Burke was diagnosed with terminal brain cancer. After undergoing an unsuccessful operation that left him partially paralyzed, and given three days to live, his grandmother removed him from the hospital against doctors orders. Her goal was to bring him to a Kathryn Kuhlman healing service at the First Presbyterian Church in Pittsburgh, PA. Burke says that while at this service Ms. Kuhlman touched him, allegedly healing him from cancer which has never returned.\n\nThen at the age of 19, Burke’s younger brother was killed by a drunk driver. This devastated him and he began to search for the reason of why he was spared from a horrible disease. He was miraculously healed and yet his younger brother was taken. It was then that he was called back to another Kathryn Kuhlman service in Youngstown, OH. From there he decided to enter the ministry and attended Melodyland School of Theology in Anaheim, CA.\n\nAfter graduating from Melodyland School of Theology, Burke returned to Pittsburgh and started his ministry in Northeast. In 1989, Burke moved his ministry to Tampa. In 1995, he founded the Miracle Center World Outreach. Since then he has traveled all over the United States and the world, spreading God's message of healing and faith. In 2009, Burke shared his testimony on Sid Roth's \"It's Supernatural\"..\n\n"}
{"id": "410307", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=410307", "title": "Bogdan Petriceicu Hasdeu", "text": "Bogdan Petriceicu Hasdeu\n\nBogdan Petriceicu Hasdeu ( 26 February 1838 – ) was a Romanian writer and philologist, who pioneered many branches of Romanian philology and history.\n\nHe was born Tadeu Hasdeu in Cristineştii Hotinului (now Kerstentsi in Chernivtsi Oblast, Ukraine), northern Bessarabia, at the time part of Imperial Russia. His father was the writer Alexandru Hâjdeu, a descendent of the Hâjdău family of Moldovan boyars, with noted Polish connections.\n\nAfter studying law at the University of Kharkiv, he fought as a Russian hussar in the Crimean War. In 1858 he settled in Iaşi as a high school teacher and librarian. In 1865, Hasdeu published a monograph on Ioan Vodă the Terrible, renaming him for the first time \"cel Viteaz\"—\"the Brave\". The portrayal of this violent, short rule as a glorious moment (and of Ioan himself as a reformer) drew criticism from the \"Junimea\" society, a conflict which was to follow Hasdeu for the rest of his life. Still, Hasdeu's version of Ioan's character and his anti-boyar actions were to be reclaimed as a founding myth by Communist Romania.\n\nIn 1863, Hasdeu again moved his residence, from Iaşi to Bucharest; he began editing the satirical magazine \"Aghiuţă\", which ceased publication the following year.\n\nIn Romania, Hasdeu started work on the \"Arhiva historică a României\" (1865-1867), the first history work to use sources in Slavonic and Romanian. He also published the 1870 philological review \"Columna lui Traian\", the best at the time in Romania. With the work \"Cuvente dân Batrâni\" (2 volumes, 1878-1881), he was the first to contribute to the history of apocryphal literature in Romania.\n\nHis \"Istoria critică a Românilor\" (1875), though incomplete, marks the beginning of critical investigation into the history of Romania. Hasdeu edited the ancient \"Psalter of Coresi\" of 1577 (\"Psaltirea lui Coresi\", 1881).\n\nHis \"Etymologicum magnum Romaniae\" (1886) was the beginning of an encyclopaedic dictionary of the Romanian language, though he never covered letters after \"B\". While the completed parts of the work do aim to be exhaustive, and are remarkably detailed, many of its entries reflect more of Hasdeu's own vision than historical facts (in one famous entry, he claims to be able to trace Basarab I's ancestry in a direct line to the Dacian rulers, with Dacia as a developed state that would have had, at times, dominated the Roman Empire—to the point where the single ruling family would have given Rome a large number of emperors).\n\nHasdeu got involved in the dispute over the Latin origin of the Romanian language. Being challenged by numerous arguments which pointed to the central position occupied by words of Slavic origin in the Romanian language, Hasdeu developed an influential verdict, deemed \"the theory of words' circulation\". The conclusion he reached was that Slavic words were never as widely used as Latin ones, with usage giving the language its character.\n\nIn 1876 he was appointed head of the State Archives in Bucharest, and in 1878 professor of philology at the University of Bucharest. In 1877, Hasdeu was elected a titular member of the Romanian Academy.\n\nHasdeu was a politician often at odds with the Romanian establishment. For example, he was placed under arrest for a nine-day interval after Captain Alexandru Candiano-Popescu's \"Republic of Ploieşti\" conspiracy (1870). Although he had been a staunch defender of the deposed Alexandru Ioan Cuza, he eventually backed the movement against him (led by Mihail Kogălniceanu), and was not opposed to the new \"Domnitor\" (future King of Romania) Carol. \n\nHowever, Hasdeu was a Liberal Party activist (he was elected to Parliament on its list for two non-consecutive terms), and close to its most radical, republican wing—the one led by C. A. Rosetti. As the republican experiment coincided with worsened relations between Prime Minister Ion Brătianu and Carol, all Liberal Party members became suspect of involvement. Together with several Party leaders, Hasdeu was tried and acquitted.\n\nAfter the death of his only child, his daughter Iulia, in 1888, he became a spiritualist and a firm adept of the spiritism. He retreated to a Câmpina mansion, and arranged it as a temple to his newly found beliefs and to his daughter. He died there and was buried in Bellu cemetery, Bucharest.\n\nHis works include two dramas, \"Răsvan şi Vidra\" (romanticizing the actions of an obscure 1590s Moldavian-Romani Voivode, Ştefan Răzvan), and \"Domniţa Ruxandra\". In 1891-92, he wrote \"Sic Cogito\", a theoretical work of spiritism as a philosophy. In addition to his interest in science, Hasdeu was the author of many poems, usually short ones. The Romanian critic Mircea Eliade described him as a \"genius of an amazing vastness\".\n\n\"Hasdeu\" is pronounced as if spelled with the Romanian version of \"ş\" (\"Haşdeu\"); Hasdeu never spelled it with any diacritic (most likely because the Romanian alphabet appeared and went through several major changes during his lifetime).\n\nAlthough many times taken for a first surname, \"Petriceicu\" is in fact his second name. The confusion can be ascribed to the name's uniqueness, and to the misguided assumption that \"cu\" is the same as the extremely common suffix for Romanian family names. The name was chosen by the writer himself, and it reflected the Hasdeu family claim to have descended from 17th century Moldavian ruler Ştefan Petriceicu.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "367052", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=367052", "title": "Bruderhof Communities", "text": "Bruderhof Communities\n\nThe Bruderhof (; ) is a Christian movement that practices community of goods after the example of the first church described in Acts 2 and Acts 4. They have communities in the United States, the United Kingdom, Germany, Paraguay, and Australia. The Bruderhof is seen as Anabaptist due to its beliefs and practice, and their claim that another life is possible.\n\nThe Bruderhof practices adult baptism, non-violence and peacemaking, full community of goods, the proclamation of the gospel and lifelong faithfulness in marriage.\n\nThe communities are best known by the name \"Bruderhof\" or sometimes \"Bruderhof Communities\", though \"Bruderhof\" is the name used on their website. The communities are legally incorporated in the US as \"Church Communities International\". Their corporation used to be called \"The Society of Brothers\" (1939 to 1978). When the Bruderhof was part of the Hutterite Church, they were sometimes called \"Hutterian Brethren\". The word \"Bruderhof\" was first used by the early Anabaptists in Moravia.\n\nThe Bruderhof was founded in Germany in 1920 by Eberhard Arnold, a philosophy student and intellectual inspired by the German Youth Movement and his wife Emmy, née von Hollander. In 1920 the young family with five children rented a house in Sannerz, Germany and founded a Christian community.\n\nWhen the group outgrew the house at Sannerz, they moved to the nearby Rhön Mountains. While there, Arnold discovered that the Hutterites (an Anabaptist movement he had studied with great interest) were still in existence in North America. In 1930 he traveled to meet the Hutterites and was ordained as a Hutterian minister.\n\nWith the rise of Adolf Hitler and Nazism, the Rhön community moved its draft-age men and children to Liechtenstein around 1934 because of their conscientious refusal to serve in the armed forces and to accept Nazi teachers. This community became known as the \"Alm Bruderhof\". Continuing pressure from the Nazi government caused others to move to England and found the \"Cotswold Bruderhof\" in 1936. On April 14, 1937, secret police surrounded the Rhön Bruderhof, confiscated the property, and gave the remaining community members forty-eight hours to flee the country. By 1938, all the Bruderhof members had reassembled in England.\n\nWhile in England, the population grew to over 350 members, largely through the addition of young English members seeking an alternative to war. Even before the outbreak of World War II, the community's German members and its pacifist stance attracted deep suspicion locally resulting in economic boycotts. When confronted with the option of either having all German members interned, or leaving England as a group, the Bruderhof chose the latter, and began to look for refuge abroad.\n\nSoon after the United Kingdom entered the war, the Bruderhof emigrated to Paraguay—the only country that would accept a pacifist community of mixed nationalities. This move was assisted and facilitated by the Mennonite Central Committee.\n\nStarting in the hostile Chaco region, the Bruderhof then relocated to eastern Paraguay where three settlements were founded on a large tract of land called Primavera. Bruderhof members founded a hospital for community members and local Paraguayans. The only clinic in the area, it served tens of thousands for the next two decades. By the early 1960s, the community in Paraguay had grown significantly and was attracting visitors from North America.\n\nIn 1942, several leaders of the community came in conflict with a group of members over the community's trajectory. This group, which included the founder's wife Emmy Arnold, argued that the founder's vision was rooted in a pietistic faith in Jesus Christ, not primarily in communitarian ideals. Eventually the church leadership, headed by the founder's son-in-law Hans Zumpe, banished the dissidents from the Bruderhof. Those who supported them were silenced, often with harsh discipline.\n\nEventually allowed back to join their families, the dissidents re-joined the community. One of them, Johann Heinrich Arnold, a son of Eberhard and Emmy Arnold, was sent with his family to the United States to raise funds and eventually started a new community called Woodcrest, in Rifton, New York, in 1954. Over the following years, conflicts between Zumpe and Arnold continued, culminating in a crisis resulting in Zumpe being relieved of his leadership role by the community. Zumpe left the community in 1960 after revelations of personal issues.\n\nMany members who supported Zumpe, and some who were confused by the turmoil, left or were asked to leave the community. Eventually, the communities in Paraguay were dissolved and the members who remained relocated to the United States. Many of those who left the community during the 1960s later returned, but some remained outside of the community and formed a group of critics of the Bruderhof. Their stories formed the basis for the 2000 book written by Julius Rubin, \"The Other Side of Joy: Religious Melancholy among the Bruderhof.\" Rubin himself never visited the Bruderhof.\n\nIn 2010, the Bruderhof opened the Villa Primavera Community in Asunción, Paraguay.\n\nIn 1954, the Bruderhof started a settlement known as the Woodcrest Bruderhof in the United States near Rifton in upstate New York, in response to a dramatic increase in the number of American guests. Woodcrest absorbed the Macedonia Cooperative Community in Georgia and many members of the Kingwood Community in New Jersey. Through the Macedonia Cooperative Community Woodcrest inherited the business Community Playthings. Additional new communities were founded in Pennsylvania (1957) and Connecticut (1958).\n\nIn 1990, the Spring Valley Bruderhof was founded adjacent to the New Meadow Run Bruderhof in Farmington, Pennsylvania. As of September 2017, there are a total of 13 Bruderhof communities in the United States.\n\nIn 1971, the Bruderhof purchased a property in Robertsbridge, East Sussex, United Kingdom called Darvell. The property had previously been a tuberculosis hospital. In 1995 a former sports college in Kent was purchased. In 2005, the Bruderhof started a small community in East London.\n\nIn 2002, the Bruderhof purchased a house in Sannerz, Germany. This location is where the Bruderhof movement had originally started.\n\nAs of September 2017, there are three Bruderhof Communities in the United Kingdom and two in Germany.\n\nThe Bruderhof opened a community in Elsmore, New South Wales, Australia in 1999. In 2005, the Bruderhof opened a community in Inverell, New South Wales, Australia, where they operate the sign-writing business Danthonia Designs. Also in 2005, the Bruderhof opened a community in Armidale, New South Wales, Australia.\n\nThe Bruderhof is a Protestant, evangelical Christian group, strongly influenced by radical Anabaptist and early Christian beliefs. Eberhard Arnold drew inspiration from a number of historical streams including early Christianity, the Anabaptists, German Pietism and the German Youth Movement. Johann Blumhardt (1805–1880) and his son Christoph Blumhardt (1842–1919), both German Lutheran theologians, are important sources of Bruderhof piety.\n\nThe Bruderhof practice Christian pacifism and therefore reject the practice of conscription, reflecting the early Anabaptist beliefs formulated in the Schleitheim Confession.\n\nThe Bruderhof tries to follow the practices of the first church in Jerusalem as related in the Acts of the Apostles, for example Acts 4:32–37: where the church members were of \"one heart and mind, and shared all things in common\". Bruderhof members do not hold private property, but rather share everything. No Bruderhof member receives a salary or has a bank account. Income from all businesses is pooled and used for the care of all members and for various communal outreach efforts.\n\nThe Bruderhof practices adult baptism, which does not equate to membership. Membership is lifetime and by vows after the age of 21. The Bruderhof also practices what they would call \"The law of love\" based on the house rule of the first Bruderhof in 1925:\n\nThe Bruderhof believes marriage to be \"the lifelong union between one man and one woman\" and believes that sexual love should only be shared in such a marriage relationship. They believe divorce and remarriage to be wrong. The Bruderhof has been criticized by some for its position on homosexuality, and for its support of the Nashville Statement. It has supported and run marriage events to promote marriage between one man and one woman both in the United States and the United Kingdom. The Bruderhof also participated in Humanum, a conference held in the Vatican from November 17–19, 2014 and attended by Pope Francis to discuss the complementarity of man and woman.\n\nIn accordance with the Anabaptist doctrine of nonconformity to the world, the Bruderhof wear plain dress, with women donning Christian headcoverings in accordance with their interpretation of 1 Corinthians in the Christian Bible.\n\nMost communities have a nursery, kindergarten, school, communal kitchen, laundry, various workshops, and offices. Bruderhof life is built around the family, though there are also many single members. Children are an important part of each community and participate in most communal gatherings. Disabled and elderly members are loved and cared for within the community and participate in daily life and work as much as they are able.\n\nThe Bruderhof eats one meal together each day as a community. Other meals are eaten in families. Singing is a very common form of worship in the community, and members often sing before meals. The Bruderhof do not prohibit the consumption of alcohol.\n\nNumerous guests visit the Bruderhof and all communities are open to guests. The Bruderhof is estimated to have around 2,900 members worldwide. They rarely appear in the mainstream media, but sometimes allow photographers or journalists to observe their life.\n\nThe Bruderhof has a reserved attitude to the use of technology. Bruderhof families do not watch television or use the internet at home, but some do use smartphones. Unlike the Amish however, they own and drive cars and run modern businesses and factories. The Bruderhof was an early adopter of the internet, registering the domain bruderhof.com in 1996 and using it to publish information about the Bruderhof and to publish e-books. They shut down their websites in 2005, but brought them back online in 2006. They now run two main websites (bruderhof.com and plough.com) and several social media channels. Some of their members run video blogs that document their life on the Bruderhof that are published online.\n\nThe Bruderhof runs schools for the children on each community, up to the age of 18. From there, young people go onto further education at university or do a practical training. They do not automatically become members, and many are encouraged to leave the community and live elsewhere before deciding on their own whether or not to join the community. Young people who leave the community are not cut-off from their families within the Bruderhof.\n\nThe Bruderhof run a variety of businesses that provide income to run their communities and provide common work for the members who almost all work onsite.\n\nCommunity Playthings was developed during the 1950s and soon became the Bruderhof's main source of income. Community Playthings designs and manufactures quality wooden classroom and play environments for schools and daycare centers. The business is run by the communities in the United States and United Kingdom.\n\nRifton Equipment, run by some of the American communities, sells mobility and rehabilitation equipment for disabled adults and children. It was founded in 1977.\n\nDanthonia Designs is the business that supports the Australian Bruderhofs. It specializes in hand-carved three-dimensional signage and was founded in 2001.\n\nThe Bruderhof is actively involved in the neighborhoods that surround its communities and in the world at large. The Bruderhof sees justice and the works of mercy as a gospel command. They foster many ecumenical relationships with other churches and denominations.\n\nBruderhof members serve on school boards, volunteer at soup kitchens, prisons and hospitals, and work with local social service agencies such as the police to provide food and shelter for those in need of help. They are active supporters of various international aid organisations, such as Oxfam, Save the Children, Tearfund and World Vision.\n\nThe Bruderhof's Plough Publishing House publishes books and a magazine called \"Plough Quarterly\". \"Plough\" publishes spiritual classics, inspirational books, and children's books, some of which are available as free downloads. Some of the books are written by Bruderhof members, but others are not.\n\nIn response to the Columbine High School massacre in 1999, the Bruderhof created a program of school assemblies that have now reached tens of thousands of youths in the United States and United Kingdom. Operating under the name \"Breaking the Cycle\", speakers with forgiveness stories speak to children at school assemblies.\n\nThe Bruderhof community has at various times campaigned on social issues, such as the death penalty and the Iraq War. They were involved in the campaign in opposition to the death sentence for the activist Mumia Abu-Jamal who was convicted in 1982 of murdering a Philadelphia police officer.\n\nThe Bruderhof Communities and the traditional Hutterites were in fellowship between 1930 and 1955 and between 1974 and 1990. In 1990, the Lehrerleut and the Dariusleut withdrew, while the Schmiedeleut maintained their bond to the Bruderhof. After the split among the Schmiedeleut in 1992, the more traditional group also withdrew, while the more progressive branch (led by Jacob Kleinsasser) kept the bond until 1995. Since then, the traditional Hutterites and the Bruderhof have been separate groups.\n\nThe reason for the withdrawal of the Hutterites in 1955 was a conflict about the Forest River Hutterite Colony, which joined the Bruderhof by a majority vote. In 1974 there was reconciliation between the two groups. In 1990 two of the three branches of the traditional Hutterites withdrew over concerns in regard to education, worship services and relations with outsiders.\n\nAccording to Rod Janzen, there are differences between the traditional Hutterites and the Bruderhof Communities on many fields. Besides cultural differences, there are differences in regard to education, leadership, decision making, church discipline, ecumenism, what constitutes the \"Word of God\" etc. All these differences led to the final break in 1995.\n\n"}
{"id": "1203084", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1203084", "title": "Buddhism in Malaysia", "text": "Buddhism in Malaysia\n\nBuddhism is the second largest religion in Malaysia, after Islam, with 19.2% of Malaysia's population being Buddhist although some estimates put that figure up to 21.6% when combined with Chinese religions. Buddhism in Malaysia is mainly practised by the ethnic Malaysian Chinese, but there are also Malaysian Siamese, Malaysian Sri Lankans and Burmese in Malaysia that practice Buddhism such as Ananda Krishnan and K. Sri Dhammananda and a sizeable population of Malaysian Indians.\nBuddhism was introduced by the Indians to the Malay Archipelago. Chinese written sources indicated that some 30 small Indianised states rose and fell in the Malay Peninsula. Buddhism began when Indian traders and priests traveling the maritime routes and brought with them Indian concepts of religion, government, and the arts. For many centuries the peoples of the region, especially the royal courts, synthesised Indian and indigenous ideas including Hinduism and Mahayana Buddhism and that shaped their political and cultural patterns. However, the Malay Kedah Kingdom denounced Indian religion after the king of Chola from Tamil Nadu attacked them in the early 11th century. The king of Kedah, Phra Ong Mahawangsa, was the first Malay ruler to denounce the traditional Indian religion; he converted to Islam, and in the 15th century, during the golden age of the Malacca Sultanate, the majority of Malays converted to Islam. \n\nAccording to the Malaysian constitution, the majority ethnic group, the Malays, are legally defined as Muslim. They constitute 60% of the population, with the remainder consisting mostly of Chinese, who are generally Buddhists or Christians, and to the lesser extent Indians, who are generally Hindus. There are also smaller numbers of other indigenous and immigrants; among the latter are Malaysians of Sinhalese, Thai, and Eurasian origin. Nearly all of the Buddhists in Malaysia live in urban areas, since they are mostly engaged in business or employed in various professions.\n\nRecently, a number of Malaysian Buddhist leaders have responded to the decline in religious participation by the children of Buddhist families, have attempted to reformulate their message to address modern life more directly. Groups involved in these education efforts include the Buddhist Missionary Society. Missionary Society leaders have argued that, while many educated youths seek an intellectual approach to Buddhism, an equally large number of people prefer to approach the religion through the tradition of ceremony and symbolism. In response to these needs, religious practices are carried out, but in a way that is simple and dignified, removing what can be seen as superstition. Efforts are made to explain why sutras are chanted, lamps lit, flowers offered, and so on.\n\nAs a religion without a supreme head to direct its development, Buddhism is practised in various forms, which, although rarely in open conflict, can sometimes lead to confusion among Buddhists. In Malaysia, some ecumenical moves have been made to coordinate the activities of different types of Buddhists. One example is the formation of the Joint Wesak Celebrations Committee of the temples in Kuala Lumpur and Selangor, which coordinates the celebration of Wesak, a holiday commemorating the birth of the Buddha. An initiative has also begun to form a Malaysian Buddhist Council, representing the various sects of Buddhism in the country to extend the work of the development of Buddhism, especially in giving contemporary relevance to the practise of the religion, as well as to promote solidarity among Buddhists in general.\n\nIn 2013, a video of a group of Buddhist practitioners from Singapore conducting religious ceremonies in a surau had become viral on Facebook. Malaysian police have arrested a resort owner after he allowed 13 Buddhists to use a Muslim prayer room (surau) for their meditation at Kota Tinggi, Johor. The incident has been a frown upon Muslims in Malaysia. It has also become a hot topic in the social media. Following up at 28 August 2013, the controversial prayer room was demolished by the resort management within 21 days from the date of receipt of the notice after much protests by the residents of Kota Tinggi. At the time, Syed Ahmad Salim, the resort owner explained that he had allowed the group of Buddhists to use the surau for a meditation session as he was unaware that it was an offence.\n\nAccording to the 2010 Census, 5,620,483 people or 19.8% of the population identify themselves as Buddhists. Most Chinese Malaysian follow a combination of Buddhism, Taoism, Confucianism and ancestor-worship but, when pressed to specify their religion, will identify themselves as Buddhists. As a result, 83.6% of all the Chinese Malaysian self-identifying as Buddhist. Information collected in the census based on respondent's answer and did not refer to any official document.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2153155", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2153155", "title": "Caesarea in Palaestina (diocese)", "text": "Caesarea in Palaestina (diocese)\n\nThe archiepiscopal see of Caesarea in Palaestina, also known as Caesarea Maritima, is now a metropolitan see of the Eastern Orthodox Patriarchate of Jerusalem and also a titular see of the Catholic Church. \nIt was one of the earliest Christian bishoprics, and was a metropolitan see at the time of the First Council of Nicaea, but was later subjected to the Patriarchate of Jerusalem. The city remained largely Christian until the Crusades, its bishop maintaining close ties to the Byzantine Empire. After the establishment of the Kingdom of Jerusalem by the Crusaders, the see was transformed into a Latin archdiocese, subordinate to the Latin Patriarch of Jerusalem.\n\nThe diocese was an ancient one, established in one of the first Christian communities ever created: it was due to the work of St Peter and St Paul. Records of the community are dated as far back as the 2nd century. According to the Apostolic Constitutions (7.46), the first \"Bishop of Caesarea\" was Zacchaeus the Publican. Caesarea Maritima was the capital of Roman Iudaea province and after the Bar Kokhba revolt it was the metropolis of the diocese of Palaestina Prima. Until the establishment of the Patriarchate of Jerusalem, it was subject to the Patriarch of Antioch. The most notable Bishop of Caesarea was Eusebius of Caesarea, also known as Eusebius Pamphili. The notable theological library established by Pamphilus of Caesarea remained in existence until the Arabs invaded Palestine in the 7th century.\n\nThe diocese suffered a troubled history following the decline of the Eastern Roman Empire in the 7th century. The city was raided by the Sassanid Persians in the early 7th century. Following the conquest of the Holy Land by the Islamic armies in the 630s, the diocese and city suffered tremendously and steadily declined in size and importance. It was finally conquered in 640 following a protracted siege.\n\nNonetheless, it remained overwhelmingly Christian, and in the absence of imperial oversight, its independence increased and the archbishop became the effective ruler of the area. \nBy the 9th century there was a substantial colony of Frankish settlers established by Emperor Charlemagne to facilitate Latin pilgrimages. \nHowever, by the 10th century, as periodic Islamic persecution continued and the aura of Byzantine Imperial authority made a resurgence, the diocese fell under the influence of the Patriarch of Constantinople for protection and supervision and increasingly fell under Byzantine authority.\n\nSt Pamphilus of Caesarea devoted his life to searching out and obtaining ancient texts which he collected in the famous Theological Library of Caesarea Maritima that Jerome was later to use, and established a school for theological study. In the scriptorium, a necessary adjunct to all libraries of antiquity, he oversaw the production of accurate edited copies of Scripture. Testimonies to his zeal and care in this work are to be found in the colophons of biblical manuscripts. Jerome's \"De Viris Illustribus\" (75) says that Pamphilus \"transcribed the greater part of the works of Origen of Alexandria with his own hand,\" and that \"these are still preserved in the library of Cæsarea.\" The collections of the library suffered during the persecutions under the Emperor Diocletian, but were repaired subsequently by bishops of Caesarea. It was noted in the 6th century, but Henry Barclay Swete was of the opinion that it probably did not long survive the capture of Caesarea by the Saracens in 638, though a modern historian would attribute more destruction to its previous capture by the Sassanid Persians.\n\nFollowing the schism between Constantinople and Rome in 1054, the community was a Greek Orthodox diocese, with only a marginal Roman Catholic community.\n\nDuring the crusader period, the community became a Catholic community in 1101. The Frankish community vastly increased in size and a Latin archbishop was established. Under the crusaders, the diocese increased over time to having ten suffragan bishops, including the bishop of Sebastea. During the remainder of the Kingdom of Jerusalem, the Latin Patriarch of Jerusalem often served first as archbishop of Caesarea, or of Tyre.\n\nThere was a legend that the Holy Grail had been discovered in Caesarea; the ancient chalice found there in 1101 was later taken to Paris.\n\nSince 1975, Eastern Orthodox Metropolitan of Caesarea is Basilios Blatsos, who is also an Exarch of Palaestina Prima, under the jurisdiction of the Eastern Orthodox Patriarchate of Jerusalem.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "51598127", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51598127", "title": "Dafydd ap Bleddyn", "text": "Dafydd ap Bleddyn\n\nDafydd ap Bleddyn (died 1346) was the Welsh Catholic Bishop of St. Asaph in Wales from 1315 to 1346, succeeding Llywelyn ap Llywelyn.\n\nAp Bleddyn is thought to be a descendent of the 'tribe of Uchtryd'. His time as bishop is thought to have been relatively uneventful, and records suggest that he remained mainly within the diocese. He is known to have attended the consecration of Roger of Lichfield at Halesowen in West Midlands in June 1322.\n\nAp Bleddyn died in 1346, when he was succeeded by John Trevor.\n"}
{"id": "2511301", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2511301", "title": "Definitor", "text": "Definitor\n\nA definitor is, in Latin, he who defines. In the Catholic Church, however, this is a title with different specific uses. There are secular definitors, who have a limited amount of oversight over a part of a diocese. There are also definitors in religious orders who generally provide counsel and assistance to the superiors general and provincial superiors of their order.\n\nIn a deanery or vicarate forane, which is a grouping of several neighboring parishes within a diocese, a definitor is either the second (and unique) highest office, immediately below the dean or vicar forane and his deputy, or is the priest in charge of any of a number of even smaller districts within the deanery, called \"definitio\". They oversee the ecclesiastical property and generally assist the dean, under the ordinary authority of the bishop. Alternative titles for this position are chamberlain or treasurer. These diocesan offices are not prescribed by canon law, and can be omitted.\n\nIn the Cistercian Order, the Abbot General is assisted by a council of five definitors, traditionally two French-speaking, one German-speaking, one English-speaking and one Dutch-speaking. Among the Franciscan Observants, the Definitor is the third highest office of the Order, below the Minister General and Procurator General. In the Camaldolese Order, Definitor may be given as the personal title of a prior. In the Dominican Order a Provincial Definitor serves under the Prior Provincial.\n\nThe title Definitor General is used by the Discalced Carmelites, the Friars Minor and the Capuchins. These officers are generally elected by the General Chapter of their Orders for a specified period of time.\n\n"}
{"id": "24016286", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24016286", "title": "Dhamma Practitioner", "text": "Dhamma Practitioner\n\nA Dhamma Practitioner is a name that is used to describe those who practice the teachings of the Buddha. It is used as an alternative to the widely used but vaguely defined term \"Buddhist\". Dhamma practitioner is seen by many as a more accurate description for those who practice the Buddha's teachings, and more fitting with classification schemes given in the Pali Canon. In contrast, the terms \"Buddhist\" and \"Buddhism\" are relatively recent inventions that some see as a Westernized framing of the teachings of the Buddha in terms fitting for religions such as Christianity, and not words that have an equivalent in the teachings of the Buddha. In the earliest sources, the Buddha himself referred to his teaching as the \"Dhamma and Discipline proclaimed by the Tathagata\". Due to these reasons and the fact that the Buddha's teachings are strongly rooted in practical application, the term Dhamma Practitioner has been used by many teachers as a description of those on the Buddha's path.\n\nIn the Pali Canon, several suttas record a scheme of classification to denote those on the Buddha's path, classed as 'the seven types of individuals', differentiated by the degree to which they have attained liberation and the means by which they have achieved this end. One such scheme is recorded in the Kitagiri Sutta (MN 70) \nThe Buddha elaborated on each one as follows:\n\nThe first two are references to Arahants, those who have completed the Buddha's teachings and attained enlightenment. Arahants who have mastered the formless attainments are known as \"liberated both ways\", whilst those who have not attained the formless dimensions are called \"released through discernment\". \n\nThose who have become a stream-enterer and also abide in the meditative formless dimensions are known as \"bodily witness\".\n\nThose who have become a stream-enterer but have not attained the meditative formless dimensions are known respectively as \"attained to view\" and \"released through conviction\", depending on the way in which they developed the path.\n\nFinally those who are yet to become a stream-enterer but are still on the path are known as a \"Dhamma-follower\" and a \"Conviction-follower\", depending on whether the faculty of widom or the faculty of faith is strongest.\n\nAnother classification scheme found in the Pali Canon is that based on the four stages of enlightenment, often broken down into \"the eight types of individuals\".\n\nThat is the four groups of noble disciples when taken as pairs:\n\nTaking each attainment singly gives the \"eight types of individual.\"\n"}
{"id": "932915", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=932915", "title": "Divine Light Mission", "text": "Divine Light Mission\n\nThe Divine Light Mission (\"Divya Sandesh Parishad\"; DLM) was an organization founded in 1960 by guru Hans Ji Maharaj for his following in northern India. During the 1970s, the DLM gained prominence in the West under the leadership of his fourth and youngest son (Prem Rawat). Some scholars noted the influence of the Bhagavad Gita and the Sant Mat tradition, but the western movement was widely seen as a new religious movement, a cult, a charismatic religious sect or an alternative religion. DLM officials said the movement represented a church rather than a religion.\n\nWhen Shri Hans Ji Maharaj died in 1966, he was succeeded as guru by Prem Rawat, then just eight years old, despite rival claims from other family members. Although Prem Rawat was accepted as his father's successor, because of his age his family retained effective control of the DLM. In 1971, Rawat defied his mother by travelling to the UK and the US, where local branches of DLM were established and rapidly expanded. By 1973, DLM had over a million followers in India and tens of thousands of followers in the West, along with dozens of ashrams and hundreds of centers.\n\nAs Rawat grew older, he began to take a more active role in the movement and, when he turned sixteen, following the financially disastrous Millennium '73 festival, he took administrative control of the US branch. His increasing independence and his marriage to a non-Indian in 1974, caused a permanent rift with his mother and two of his brothers; Satpal Ji Maharaj and Bhole Ji Maharaj. They returned to India, where his eldest brother Satpal Maharaj took over the control of the Indian DLM.\n\nIn the early 1980s, Rawat began disbanding the western DLM. He closed the ashrams and eliminated the remaining Indian influences from his presentation to make it independent of any specific culture or religion. In the US, UK, France and Australia, Elan Vital was formed to replace the DLM in supporting Rawat in his role as teacher.\n\nShri Hans Maharaj Ji, initiated by the Sant Mat guru Sri Swarupanand Ji, began teaching in the Sind and Lahore provinces of India in the 1930s. In 1950 he began initiating \"Mahatmas\", followers who could themselves initiate devotees, and formed a magazine called \"Hansadesh\" which is still active in 2017.\n\nIn 1960 in the city of Patna, he founded the Divine Light Mission (\"Divya Sandesh Parishad\") to organize followers across Northern India. At the time of his death on 19 July 1966, the Divine Light Mission had six million members in India.\n\nDuring the customary 13 days of mourning, his mother and senior officials of the organization discussed the succession. Prem Rawat, who was 8 years-old at the time, addressed the crowd and was accepted by them as their teacher and \"Perfect Master\" and was named as Bal Bhagwan. Because of his age, effective control of the DLM was shared by the whole family.\n\nIn 1971, Rawat, then known as Guru Maharaji Ji, travelled to the West against his mother's wish & will. DLM was established in the U.S. and the U.K. The U.S. branch was headquartered in Denver, Colorado. It was registered there as a non-profit corporation and in 1974 was recognized as a church by the United States Internal Revenue Service under section 501(c)(3).\n\nBy 1972 DLM was operating in North and South America, Europe and Australia. By 1973, DLM was operating in 37 countries, tens of thousands of people had been initiated (become premies) and several hundred centers and dozens of ashrams formed in the U.S. and the U.K. DLM said it had 8,000 devotees and forty ashrams at that time.\n\nIn the United States, the staff at the headquarters grew to 125, and Telexes connected the headquarters with the ashrams. Social service facilities, including a medical clinic in New York City, were opened. A Women's Spiritual Right Organization dedicated to reaching out to persons in prisons, mental institutions and hospitals, was organized. The U.S. DLM published two periodicals: \"And It Is Divine\" (\"AIID\"), a monthly magazine with a circulation of 90,000; and \"Divine Times\", a biweekly newspaper with a circulation of 60,000. The cover price of \"AIID\" was $1 but most were given away free, as were the advertisements. The World Peace Corps (WPC) was established as a security force to provide protection for Rawat. After Bob Mishler, the DLM President, was removed from power he said that Rawat got the idea to start a bodyguard unit after watching \"The Godfather\". The WPC became the organizing agent of meetings and businesses. A variety of businesses were founded under US DLM auspices including laundromats, used clothing stores, a plane charter agency (\"Divine Travel Services\"), a repair service, and the \"Cleanliness-is-Next-to-Godliness\" janitorial service.\n\nOn 8 August 1973, while Rawat was at the Detroit City Hall to receive a testimonial resolution praising his work, Pat Halley, who was at the time a reporter from Detroit's underground periodical \"Fifth Estate\", slapped him in the face with a shaving cream pie. Rawat responded by saying that he did not want his attacker arrested or hurt, but the reporter was attacked by two men a few days later and seriously injured. When local members heard of the incident they notified Rawat in Los Angeles who extended his regrets and condolences to Pat Halley's family, and requested that the DLM conduct a full investigation. The assailants, one of them an Indian mahatma, were identified. They admitted their part in the incident and offered to turn themselves in. The Chicago police were immediately notified. The Detroit police declined to initiate extradition proceedings, variously claiming that they were unable to locate the assailants, or that the cost of extraditing them from Chicago to Detroit made it impractical. The arrest warrant remained outstanding. This lack of action by the Detroit police was attributed by some to Halley's radical politics. A spokesman later stated that the Indian national had been \"shipped off to Europe\".\n\nFestivals were a regular part of the Divine Light Mission's activities and a source of revenue. Members would pay from $50 to $100 to attend, and Darshan events would generate considerable donations. The DLM celebrated three main festivals: Holi, which is celebrated in late March or early April; Guru Puja, which was held in July; and Hans Jayanti, which falls in November. Hans Jayanti marks the birthday of the DLM's founder. According to Marc Galanter, the members at a festival in Orlando, Florida \"looked as though they had been drawn from the graduate campus of a large university—bright, not too carefully groomed, casually dressed. They were lively, good-tempered, and committed to their mutual effort. There was no idleness, brashness, marijuana, beer, loud music, or flirtation—all hallmarks of a more typical assembly of people in their twenties\". Other festivals were held nationally and locally, and sometimes organized with little advance notice. Attending as many as ten festivals a year meant many members were unable to hold regular full-time jobs, and required sacrificing leisure and community activities in order to devote time to earning the money needed to attend.\n\nIn 1972, seven jumbo jets were chartered to bring members from the U.S. and other countries to the Hans Jayanti festival held at the main ashram near New Delhi. 2500 foreign members camped out at the mission's \"city of love\" for a month. The event attracted a reported total of 500,000 attendees. When Rawat flew to India to attend, he was accused of attempting to smuggle $65,000 worth of cash and jewelry into the country, but no charges were ever filed. and the Indian government later issued an apology. The accusation led to negative coverage in the Indian press and hard feelings between Rawat and his mother, who had persuaded him to return to India for the festival.\n\nIn June 1973, the British DLM, with Prem Rawat's mother acting on behalf of her son, organized the \"Festival of Love\" at the Alexandra Palace in London. While it drew thousands of attendees, Rawat began receiving hostile press coverage, partly due to his showing up late, or not at all, at scheduled appearances. The large membership had grown up very rapidly but the organizers had no clear idea where to lead the following, nor did they have the financial resources to maintain so many full-time workers.\n\nThe 1973 Hans Jayanti festival was held at the Astrodome in Houston, Texas, and publicized as \"Millennium '73\". The free three-day event was billed as \"the most significant event in human history\" that would herald \"a thousand years of peace for people who want peace\", the idea being that peace would come to the world as individuals experienced inner peace. To promote the event, Prem Rawat's 20-year-old brother, Bhole Ji Rawat toured with a 60-piece band, \"Blue Aquarius\" for two weeks giving free concerts. The 500-member tour was dubbed \"Soul Rush\" and traveled to seven cities on the way to Houston.\n\nRennie Davis, well known as one of the defendants in the Chicago Seven trial, attracted extensive media coverage as a spokesperson for Rawat. At the event, Davis declared that \"All I can say is, honestly, very soon now, every single human being will know the one who was waited for by every religion of all times has actually come.\" In a press conference at Millennium, Rawat denied being the Messiah, and when asked by reporters about the contradictions between what he said about himself and what his followers said about him, Rawat replied, \"Why don't you do me a favor ... why don't you go to the devotees and ask their explanation about it?\" While Rawat's brother Satpal was nominally in charge of the festival, Davis was the \"General Coordinator\" and handled the details.\n\nExpectations for the event were very high, with predictions that it would attract more than 100,000, or even as many as 400,000 people from Satpal. Davis privately said he thought 22,000 was a more realistic estimate and reserved 22,000 hotel beds. There was even talk about a space in the parking lot reserved for a flying saucer to land. When Satpal heard about the flying saucer he said, \"If you see any, just give them some of our literature\".\nThe actual attendance was estimated at 35,000, and at 10,000 by police.\n\nThe event featured spectacular staging, a 56-piece rock band and a giant video screen that showed a barrage of shots from the tumultuous 1960s. Though it was not covered by the national television news, it did get extensive coverage in the print media. The premies were reported to be \"cheerful, friendly and unruffled, and seemed nourished by their faith\". To the 400 premie parents who attended, Rawat \"was a rehabilitator of prodigal sons and daughters\". Media people found a \"confused jumble of inarticulately expressed ideas.\" It was depicted in the award-winning U.S. documentary \"Lord of the Universe\" broadcast by PBS Television in 1974. The event was called the \"youth culture event of the year\". Singer-songwriter Loudon Wainwright III visited the festival and later remarked that while the premies inside were looking happy the ones outside were arguing with Jesus Freaks and Hare Krishnas. Wainwright's song \"I am the Way\" was partly inspired by Prem Rawat.\n\nAt the festival, Larry Bernstein, a prize-winning, 41-year-old architect described a \"Divine City\" to be built from the ground up starting the following year. It was to feature translucent hexagonal plastic houses stacked on concrete columns and connected with monorails. Polluting vehicles would be replaced by electric vehicles, and solar power would be used to provide energy. Cards would replace cash. The use of advanced technologies to ensure pollution-free air, Rennie Davis told a journalist, would be a practical demonstration of what it means to have Heaven on Earth. Two sites were suggested: either the Blue Ridge Mountains or somewhere near Santa Barbara, California. The former president and vice president of the DLM later said that Prem Rawat had spoken frequently of building such a city. Plans for the city were delayed amid the fiscal crisis following the Millennium festival. Incorporation papers for the formation of the \"City of Love and Light Unlimited, Inc.\" were filed in Colorado in 1974, and there was a failed attempt in 1975 to build the community near San Antonio, Texas.\n\nThe DLM incurred a debt estimated between $600,000 and over $1 million, attributed to poor management and low attendance. The debt severely damaged the DLM's finances. Event-related expenses were covered by short-term credit based on the expectation that contributions would pour in following the free festival. DLM's post-Millennium financial troubles forced it to close ashrams, sell its printing business and real estate, and to drop the lease on its IBM computer. Monthly donations fell from $100,000 to $70,000. According to Messer, \"to pay the debts remaining from the Houston event, devotees all over the country turned over their own possessions to Divine Sales, which had crash garage sales, attended flea markets, and invented numerous activities to dispose of the goods.\" By 1976 it was able to reduce the debt to $80,000. Consequently, the festival necessitated policy shifts within the movement organization.\n\nBecause of Prem Rawat's age, Jagat janni Mata Ji, his mother, and her eldest son, Satpal Rawat (Now known as Satpal Ji Maharaj) had managed the affairs of the worldwide DLM. As Prem Rawat approached sixteen he wanted to take a more active part in guiding the movement. According to Downton, \"this meant he had to encroach on his mother's territory and, given the fact that she was accustomed to having control, a fight was inevitable\". In December 1973, when he turned 16, Rawat took administrative control of the Mission's U.S. branch and began to assert his independence from his mother who returned to India with Satpal.\n\nIn May 1974, a judge gave Rawat his consent to marry without parental permission. His marriage to his secretary, Marolyn Johnson, a 24-year-old follower from San Diego, California, was celebrated at a non-denominational church in Golden, Colorado. Rawat's mother, Mata Ji, had not been invited. As a result of his marriage, Rawat became an emancipated minor. He called his wife \"Durga Ji\", after the Hindu goddess Durga.\n\nRawat's decision to marry a Westerner precipitated a struggle for control of DLM. His mother claimed that Rawat had broken his spiritual discipline by marrying, and had become a \"playboy\". She appointed Satpal as the new head of DLM India, but the Western premies remained loyal to Rawat. The marriage led to a permanent rift between Prem Rawat and his mother, and was also credited with causing a profound disruption in the movement. Many followers left the ashrams to get married, and the base of support inevitably shifted from the ashrams to the wider premie community. Others felt \"almost betrayed\", in part because he had championed celibacy, one of the requirements of ashram life, before getting married himself.\nThe bad press from the festivals and the rift caused by Prem Rawat's marriage in 1974 marked the end of the movement's growth phase.\n\nIn 1975, Prem Rawat returned to India in an attempt to gain control of the Indian DLM. A court-ordered settlement resulted in his eldest brother Satpal retaining control of the Indian DLM, while Rawat maintained control of the DLM outside of India.\n\nFollowing the rift with his mother, Rawat announced that he was replacing the predominantly Indian image with a Western one and began to wear business suits instead of his all-white Indian attire. The Indian mahatmas were replaced with Westerners, and Indian terminology fell from use. Rawat encouraged premies to leave the ashrams. According to one estimate, the worldwide membership had declined from 6 million to 1.2 million by 1976, and in the U.S. the 50,000 claimed initiates had dwindled to 15,000 regular contributors. A spokesman for the Mission explained in 1976 that the higher numbers had been inflated due to poor record-keeping. One estimate had from 500 to 1200 members living in ashrams in the mid-1970s. By the end of the 1970s, the movement had lost an estimated 80% of its followers in the U.S. Bromley and Hammond attribute the decline of groups including the Divine Light Mission to internal factors, but also in part to the news media's \"discrediting reports about their activities\", accounts which created a \"wide-spread public perception of 'mind control' and other 'cult' stereotypes.\"\n\nThe Divine Light Mission also attracted the attention of the anti-cult movement. Some members were violently kidnapped and deprogrammed. Some former members became outspoken critics of the organization and attacked the group with what Melton calls \"standard anti-cult charges of brainwashing and mind control\". In reference to ex-followers, DLM spokesman Joe Anctil said that \"A lot of people were just on a trip in the beginning. They felt they had to be 'hyped', and some didn't stay long enough to get beyond that. But we've changed as our understanding has changed.\" Bob Mishler, the founding president of the DLM in the U.S., was removed by Rawat in 1977 and gave an interview in 1979, along with the former vice president, in which he said he was concerned that the DLM was becoming a \"tax evasion for the guru\", and said he feared a repeat of Jonestown. They also accused Rawat of engaging in inappropriate behavior. Mishler's charges found little support and did not affect the progress of the Mission.\n\nIn the 1980s, Prem Rawat removed the Indian trappings from his message, and adopted a more Western style. Melton said the mission was disbanded [when] Prem Rawat personally renounced the trappings of Indian culture and religion, to make his teachings independent of culture, beliefs and lifestyles. Prem Rawat was no longer to be venerated as a god or regarded as a Perfect Master. The ashrams were closed along with the Denver headquarters (1979). The Divine Light Mission organization was replaced by Elan Vital; the U.S. organization's name was changed to Elan Vital in 1983, by filing an entity name change. Prem Rawat asked to be referred to as \"Maharaji\" instead of \"Guru Maharaj Ji.\"\n\nAccording to Ron Geaves, a religious scholar who has been associated with the teachings of Prem Rawat for the last thirty years:\nMaharaji has chosen a route of perpetual transformation in which organizational forms are created and utilized and then destroyed, thus providing flexibility to deal with rapidly changing social attitudes, to provide pragmatic solutions to internal problems, and above all to keep his students focused on the core message rather than the peripheral requirements of organizational forms.\nSince then the Elan Vital has been \"virtually invisible.\" Rawat stopped granting interviews and making public announcements of his visits. As of 2008, he has continued to write, lecture, and tour with the support of the Elan Vital and the Prem Rawat Foundation.\n\nIn 1975, Mata Ji took control of the DLM in India as a result of the rift and installed her eldest son, Satpal Rawat, as its head. A lawsuit in India resulted in his brother Satpal gaining control of the Divine Light Mission in India, and Rawat continuing to lead DLM in the rest of the world.\n\nSatpal Rawat, now known as Shri Satpal Ji Maharaj, teaches \"Manav Dharam\" (the \"Dharam [Religion] of Mankind\"). He is also a politician and former Union Minister in India, and founded Manav Utthan Sewa Samiti, which he describes as \"an all-India registered voluntary social welfare and charitable organization\", that is also \"making freely available the spiritual Knowledge which is the essence of all religions.\" Satpal Rawat's supporters now assert that he is the rightful successor to his father, Hans Ji Maharaj. Scholars that have written about the succession report that Satpal and the rest of the family accepted and supported Prem's declaration of succession for eight years.\n\nThe Divine United Organization (DUO) was an organization registered under the Societies Registration Act 21 of 1860 with the Registrar of Delhi in 1977, to disseminate the teachings of Prem Rawat in India. According to Geaves, DUO remained in India until it was replaced by Raj Vidya Bhavan [sic]. Raj Vidya Kender (Center for the King of Knowledge) states on its website that it was registered under the societies Registration Act in 1977, with registration No. 8845/77, \"by individuals eager to help in the dissemination of Maharaji's message of hope and peace.\"\n\nAccording to some scholars, Shri Hans was influenced by both the Sant tradition and the Bhagavad Gita. Reinhart Hummel wrote that from the former came the reduction of Hinduism to the inner realization of the divine and the veneration of the guru, and from the latter the emphasis on the practical life. Hummel also noted that the DLM never developed a systematic doctrine, either during Hans' time or Prem Rawat's time. Hummel further asserted that the influence of the North Indian Sant tradition was dominant in Hans' eclectic thinking, and that from the Sant tradition also came the rejection of outward rituals and ceremonies; the rejection of asceticism in favor of life as a householder; the rejection of veneration of idols, and the focus on the guru as the manifestation of the divine. Hummel also noted that the four meditation techniques are of central importance to Prem, as they were to Hans.\n\nNo rules or regulations were imposed, and no beliefs or ethical practices were taught. The fundamental practices of inner peace were embodied and experienced through satsang, service and meditation, the sum of which is an experience called \"Knowledge.\" Members of the DLM meditated formally twice daily and attended discourses on the Knowledge (known as satsang) when possible. According to Galanter \"satsang could be delivered to active members or to those with only a casual interest. It was something of a polemic interspersed with parables, and because members were bright and sophisticated, these discourses tended to be engaging, making use of both Hindu mythology and Western philosophy\". In a study by Flo Conway and Jim Siegelman, former followers said that they had spent 32.9 hours per week in group-related processes and ritual and 19.9 hours in additional study or indoctrination (lectures, seminars, workshops etc). Vegetarianism was encouraged but not enforced except in ashrams and Divine Centers.\n\nFive \"commandments\" were part of the Divine Light Mission's teachings:\n\nIn the United States, the early years of the Divine Light Mission were marked by the rapid growth of loosely affiliated local ashrams, united mainly by a shared devotion to Guru Maharaj Ji. As the DLM became more and more structured and centralized, leadership and power came to be concentrated in the Denver headquarters. According to scholars, Prem Rawat's desire to consolidate his power and authority over the U.S. movement led to increasing formalization, with rules and regulations for ashram living, standards for recruited \"candidates,\" and pressure towards certification of the movement's teachers. According to scholars Foss and van der Lans, the teachings of Hans Ji Maharaj were minimized after 1975, and followers were expected to accept Prem Rawat as their personal savior.\n\nDavid V. Barrett noted that the DLM movement was often criticized for emphasizing the superiority of subjective emotional experience over intellect. The sociologists Ralph Larkin and Daniel A. Foss made similar observations in 1978. In response, the religious scholar Ron Geaves, himself a member of the movement, accused Foss and Larkin of bias.\n\nA 1981 article based on the Dutch branch of the Divine Light Mission, stated that the DLM had little philosophical background and that all its central creeds and tenets were described in the song associated with the Hindu ritual called aarti. Arti was sung to Prem Rawat in the morning and evening in ashrams.\n\nRawat says he does not charge for teaching people the techniques of Knowledge. Related organizations that support the dissemination of Rawat's message are funded by donations. According to the Prem Rawat Foundation, it is supported by people who appreciate Rawat's message and wish to help make it available to others.\n\nIn a comparison of new religious movements, Gartrell and Shannon noted that people appeared to seek out such religious organizations to get answers to questions about ultimate meaning as well as answers to more prosaic issues. In discussing the differences in recruiting tactics employed by these groups, they placed the Divine Light Mission in the middle ground between movements in which recruits were love bombed, or overwhelmed by waves of intense sentiment, and those in which affective bonds were discouraged. They reported that close ties between newcomers and DLM members developed gradually over a period of three to four months, between initial contact and their attending a \"Knowledge session\", and the emergent friendships were an important forum in which recruits aired doubts and discussed DLM beliefs. These relationships thus supplemented a very cognitive conversion process, in which active consideration of the movement's ideas and beliefs was encouraged from the outset. They found little evidence to suggest that social rewards were orchestrated by the movement, either in degree or timing.\n\nThe sociologist James V. Downton, who studied the DLM for five years, reported that the \"idealism of these premies was one of the motivating forces behind their conversion [to DLM]. They wanted to create a more caring world\". Five years after the subjects of his study became premies he wrote:\n\"There is little doubt in my mind that these premies have changed in a positive way. Today, they seem less alienated, aimless, worried, afraid, and more peaceful, loving, confident, and appreciative of life. We could attribute these changes to surrender, devotion, and their involvement in the premie community. Each of these undoubtedly had a positive impact, but, if we accept what premies say, none were as critical as their experience of the universal spirit. Meditating on the life-energy for five years, they report having more positive attitudes about themselves.\"\n\nAccording to Carroll Stoner and Jo Anne Parke, when they visited an ashram the premies \"appeared to be in control of their own lives and seemed to be achieving some measure of peace as a by-product of a lifestyle they feel is constructive and healthy\". When the same members attended an appearance by Prem Rawat a week later, \"they lost control, sobbed and swayed and knelt to kiss his feet.\"\n\nAccording to Foss and van der Lans, members who joined before 1975 tended to be young people from the counterculture who had used psychedelic drugs. Later members, they asserted, were older and more responsible with ordinary jobs who were disillusioned with conventional religions or other Eastern movements.\n\nA study of group cohesiveness carried out by Marc Galanter in 1974, based on questionnaire responses given by 119 DLM members randomly chosen from festival registration lines, found that after two years involvement with DLM, members reported a considerable decline in psychological distress and drug use compared to their pre membership status. The study found that 45% of those surveyed had used marijuana daily before joining, while only 7% did so at the time of the study. Seventy-one percent reported psychological stress before joining compared to 37% at the time of the study. Overall, 38% had sought professional help for psychological problems before joining. These observations led to what Galanter's describes as \"an apparent overall improvement in psychiatric state derived from conversion and its retention through continued membership\", and that members, whether they were seriously distressed or not before joining, reported an improved emotional state after joining. Galanter reports that 82% of members surveyed were single, 97% were white, and 73% were in their twenties. The percentage of these with Catholic or Protestant backgrounds mirrored the general population, while there were ten times as many members with Jewish backgrounds as in the general population (21% versus 2%). Three-quarters of them had attended college.\nJames V. Downton conducted a comparative study of 41 DLM members from three US cities, 29 members of the Hare Krishna movement and 40 college students. Among the DLM members the average age was 23 and ranged from 19 to 29. They came from middle-class backgrounds, all were white and had attended an average of 1.5 years of college, similar to the Hare Krishna sample, though DLM members were less likely to have come from broken homes. Sixty-five percent of DLM members reported having religious experiences while tripping on LSD. Overall, 95% of DLM members had used psychedelic drugs, compared to 89% of Hare Krishna and 67% of the college student cohort. Compared to the college students, fewer DLM members had had religious upbringings and they tended to have had worse family experiences though only 17% came from \"broken homes\".\n\nOne member, writing in the 1970s said that followers were \"nagged to donate funds of their own\" and some devotees signed pledges to donate a dollar a day to provide the Mission with some reliable income. One former accountant for the DLM said that new followers were asked to turn over their entire savings, sometimes hundreds of thousands of dollars, and in several cases their families contested the donations. He was quoted as saying \"it takes a lot of money to keep a guru.\" Bob Mishler, the mission's executive director, talked one person into signing over power of attorney shortly after she joined. Mishler was sacked by Rawat in 1976.\n\nThe Divine Light Mission began creating ashrams in India in the 1960s, starting with a small one in Rajasthan and a larger one called Satlok (\"Place of Truth\") between Delhi and Haridwar. Khushwant Singh, who visited the Mission's headquarters in Delhi in 1973 described it as being like a fortress with -high walls, an iron grilled gate enclosing a courtyard and a complex of buildings capable of housing 100 and with the capacity to feed 50,000 visitors on special occasions. Singh also described \"the lavish use of marble, wall-to-wall carpets, chandeliers and modern furnishings\" as evidence of affluence.\n\nOnly a small fraction of the overall DLM membership lived in organized ashrams during its short history but several dozen ashrams were formed in the U.S., Britain, Europe and Australia. Ashrams were run by \"general secretaries\" appointed by the national office. Each ashram had a \"house mother\" who oversaw cooking, washing, ironing, and food service but the normal isolation of the housewife and cook became a communal, everyone-pitchin-and-help festival. \nFollowers (\"premies\") who lived in them often worked part or full time at ordinary jobs and gave a sizable portion – sometimes all – of their income to the movement. Ashrams typically had an associated business, such as a Divine Sales outlet and a Divine Service Company. The ashram premies became the core of the Mission in the United States, but the ashrams themselves were not a source of income, never becoming more than self-sufficient. Followers wishing to stay in the ashrams established by Rawat were required to fill out detailed applications that focused on their trust funds, insurance policies, and other assets.\n\nIn Australia in the early 1970s, a small percentage of premies lived in ashrams. Some premies choose to live in an ashram for a couple of months, to get into their meditation, and then moved out into households or shared houses. Ashram rules demanded celibacy and abstinence from meat, alcohol, cigarettes and drugs. Married people, as well as single, lived in ashrams and, in their case, the practice of celibacy meant that they had sexual relations only with their marital partner. About three hundred people chose to live in communal houses and almost all households were non-smoking, non-drinking and vegetarian and, in some, the finances and energies were pooled for the good of all. Each household made its own decisions about life styles and often contained students and married couples.\n\nIn addition to the ashrams, there were many more residences with less formality. \"Premie Centers\", were households committed to the Mission's activity that donated 30% of their income and followed dietary rules, but that allowed married, non-celibate couples and children, and which weren't subject to orders from the national Mission. \"Premie houses\" were informal households (with as many as 30 followers) held together by their shared commitments and values. Ashrams served as local coordinating centers for all the local devotees.\n\nCarroll Stoner and Jo Anne Parke wrote in 1977 of their visits to several ashrams that \"there was no persuasion or cajoling for us to become part of this group. We did feel a sense of calm and peace in the ashrams. Marc Galanter, wrote in 1989 of his visit to a DLM ashram that —\n\nThe Divine Light Mission was described in various and sometimes conflicting terms. It was called a new religious movement, a cult, a charismatic religious sect, an offshoot of Sant Mat, an alternative religion or spin-off from other traditional religions, a youth religion, a Radhasoami offshoot, an orthodox Sikh community, an Advait Mat related tradition, a proselytizing religion (\"Guru-ism\"), and a defunct religious movement. A study of terms used in U.S. newspapers and news magazines, which examined the media's failure to use the more neutral terminology favored by social scientists, found that the Divine Light Mission was referred to as a \"sect\" in 10.3% of articles, as a \"cult\" in 24.1%, and as both in 13.8%. It was referred to as a \"sect\" in 21.4% of headlines, with 0% for \"cult\".\n\nThe president and spokesman of the DLM said in 1977 that \"they represent a church rather than a religion\".\n\nIn some countries, the DLM faced persecution and even banning. In 1972, in Argentina, as part of a crackdown on small religious groups by the military junta, 87 members of the DLM were arrested in Mar del Plata on charges of using drugs and practising their faith. The DLM, the Hare Krishnas and the Jehovah's Witnesses were banned, reportedly at the behest of the Roman Catholic Church. The Government Junta of Chile (1973) arrested over 200 members, including 12 foreigners, in 1974. The DLM was banned by Singapore authorities in the late 1980s.\n\nBromley and Hammond described the Divine Light Mission as belonging in a \"medium tension category\", among movements that were seen by the public as peculiar rather than threatening, and to which society responded with watchfulness and ostracism. Psychiatrist Saul V. Levine wrote that the DLM, along with other groups such as the Unification Church, was widely held in low esteem – families felt their children were being financially exploited while the groups' leaders lived in \"ostentation and offensive opulence.\"\n\nRon Geaves states that the Divine Light Mission \"developed into a vigorous new religious movement with its own specific traits that included characteristics of a contemporary North Indian Sant panth (sectarian institution) and nirguna bhakti was combined with intense reverence for the living satguru and millennial expectations of the western counter-culture.\"\n\nAccording to sociologist Pilarzyk the youth culture response — mainly from decidedly leftist political ideologies — was somewhat ambiguous, combining indifference with some instances of overt hostility. Pilarzyk mentioned that these criticisms usually focused on what they perceived as phoniness of the \"blissed-out premies\", and referring to the \"hocuspocus\" aspects of the meditation, and the \"materialistic fixations\" and physical condition of the guru. These accounts are described by Pilarzyk as being quite negative and full of distortions from the DLM's adherents point of view, which drew responses from them that varied from bewilderment and amusement to extreme defensiveness. Positive comments came from youth culture \"folk heroes\" as anti-war activist as Rev. Daniel Berrigan, radical lawyer William Kunstler, and singer-songwriter Cat Stevens.\n\nSummarizing his 1985 review of studies of a number of new religious movements, such as The Jesus Movement, the Unification Church, the Children of God group in Europe and the Divine Light Mission, James T. Richardson stated that \"life in the new religions is often therapeutic instead of harmful\", and suggested that the young people attracted to these movements were affirming their idealism by their involvement. Richardson asserted that his review found there was little data to support the almost completely negative picture of these groups painted by a few mental health professionals and others.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3062613", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3062613", "title": "Divinity (academic discipline)", "text": "Divinity (academic discipline)\n\nDivinity is the study of Christian and other theology and ministry at a school, divinity school, university, or seminary. The term is sometimes a synonym for theology as an academic, speculative pursuit, and sometimes is used for the study of applied theology and ministry to make a distinction between that and academic theology. It most often refers to Christian study which is linked with the professional degrees for ordained ministry or related work, though it is also used in an academic setting by other faith traditions.\n\nDivinity can be divided into several distinct but related disciplines. These vary, sometimes widely, from church to church and from one faith tradition to another, and even among various programs within a particular church. A typical program will include many of the following:\n\n\n\n\n\n\nStudying divinity usually leads to the awarding of an academic degree or a professional degree. Such degrees, particularly in modern times the Master of Divinity, are prerequisites for ordained ministry in most Christian denominations and many other faith communities. The exception to this is all \"plain\" churches such as the Amish, Old German Baptist Brethren, Old Order Mennonite, Dunkard Brethren, and many others. In fact, such churches hold to the belief that seminaries are an institution of man and not supported by Holy Scripture. Students earn such degrees at a free-standing seminary, theologate or divinity school, or at a university.\n\nThe following is a list of most of the common degrees in divinity:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2419325", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2419325", "title": "Douglas E. Cowan", "text": "Douglas E. Cowan\n\nDouglas Edward Cowan (born August 14, 1958) is a Canadian academic in religious studies and the sociology of religion and currently holds a teaching position at Renison University College, University of Waterloo, Ontario, Canada. Prior to this appointment he was Assistant Professor of Sociology & Religious Studies at the University of Missouri–Kansas City.\n\nCowan was born in Canada and received his undergraduate tertiary education at the University of Victoria where he was awarded the B.A. degree in English literature. He then proceeded to theological studies and received the M.Div (Honours) from St. Andrews Theological College. His doctoral work, which involved an examination of the Christian countercult movement through the prism of the sociology of knowledge and propaganda theory, was undertaken through the University of Calgary.\n\nWhile Cowan currently describes himself as a methodological agnostic, he was ordained to the Christian ministry in the United Church of Canada, and held pastoral positions during his doctoral studies. After graduating with the Ph.D in 1999 Cowan received a joint appointment in the Department of Sociology/CJC and the UMKC Center for Religious Studies. During 2005 he relocated from the USA to his current teaching post at the University of Waterloo in Ontario, Canada.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "22521351", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22521351", "title": "Edward Isaac Ezra", "text": "Edward Isaac Ezra\n\nEdward Isaac Ezra (3 January 1883 in Shanghai – 15 December 1921 in Shanghai) was a wealthy Jewish businessman, who was the first member of the Shanghai Municipal Council who was actually born in China, and who was at one time \"one of the wealthiest foreigners in Shanghai\". According to one report, Ezra amassed a vast fortune estimated at from twenty to thirty million dollars primarily through the importation of opium, and successful real estate investment and management in early twentieth century Shanghai. Ezra was the largest stockholder and the managing director of Shanghai Hotels Ltd., and its major financier, and controlled such hotels as the Astor House Hotel in Shanghai.\n\nEdward Isaac Ezra was born in Shanghai, China on 3 January 1883, the oldest of the nine children of Isaac \"Ned\" Ezra (died 1892), one of the first Jewish merchants in Shanghai. Ezra Road (now Shashi No.2 Road 沙市二路 - between Nanjing East Road and Jiujiang Road) was named after his farther and his mother, Flora Abraham (died 1899). He was the older brother of Rachel Ezra Levy (born 1884 in Shanghai; married Nissim Simon Levy; died 2 January 1968 in Hong Kong); Ellis Isaac Ezra (born ca. 1885); and twins Isaac Isaac Ezra (born 8 February 1892) and Judah Isaac Ezra (born 8 February 1892); and four other sisters. In 1907 Ezra married Mozelle Robinson Sopher (born 1890 in Shanghai; died August 1979 in Hong Kong), and they had two children, Cecil (born 1908) and Denzil (born 1914).\n\nIn 1896 The Central Stores Company, which was largely financed by Ezra, took over the Central Hotel (later the Peace Hotel) on the southern corner of Nanjing Road and the Bund. From 1900 Ezra had diversified his economic activities, adding large-scale real estate investments, construction, and management. Ezra was considered one of Shanghai's major landowners. Ezra \"erected - on the land bounded by Nanking, Kiujiang, Szechwan and Kiangse Roads - 1,000,000 taels worth of residences that enjoyed modern amenities. The family interests included hotels,\" including the Astor House Hotel. \n\nEzra was the managing director of Shanghai Hotels Limited from 1907, chairman of the Far Eastern Insurance Company, chairman of the Shanghai Gas Company, chairman of the China Motors Ltd. Additionally, he held large proprietary interests in, and was president and chairman of, the \"China Press\" and the \"Evening Star\" newspapers.\n\nIn 1913 Ezra was elected the first president of the Shanghai Opium Combine. At the same time Ezra was leading the legal cartel, he was also organising an illegal underground opium smuggling and distribution network, involving his younger brothers, twins Isaac Isaac Ezra and Judah Isaac Ezra, and some Chinese associates. When it was exposed, Ezra was granted immunity from prosecution by testifying against Paul Yip, his Chinese partner, who received an 18-month prison sentence.\n\nBy 1915 Ezra had generated enough wealth to be able to re-sell at the price he had paid for it a choice property in the most desirable part of the Hongkou District on the northern bank of the Suzhou Creek diagonally across Huangpu Road from the Astor House Hotel, to the United States for their consulate. By 1920 the Astor House Hotel was making a handsome profit under his leadership.\n\nIn 1917 Ezra purchased \"The China Press\" newspaper from its founder, American journalist Thomas Franklin Fairfax Millard.\n\nEzra's relationship to the Sassoon family by marriage, as well as his immense wealth, allowed him both social standing and political position. His own home on Joffre Road (now 1209 Huaihai Lu) in the Shanghai French Concession was an indicator of his wealth. According to Paul French, \"Ezra was extremely rich and lived in considerable style in the Ezra mansion\" with \"Louis XV furniture throughout, a ballroom for 150 dancers, a music room to seat an audience of 80 in comfort, and elegantly designed French windows giving out on to of gardens.\"\n\nIn 1900, Ezra, also a philanthropist, helped organise and fund the Society for the Rescue of the Chinese Jews, which aimed at restoring Kaifeng Jews to orthodox Judaism. Ezra was the president of the Shanghai Zionist Association from its founding in 1903. Ezra was the vice-president of the Jewish Communal organisation of China, and vice-president of the Synagogue.\n\nEzra was an active member and past Master of the Lodge Saltoun in East-Asia, and made his way up to the highest degrees in freemasonry. Ezra was a member of the Shanghai Club; the Shanghai Race Club; the Masonic Club; and the Cercle Sportif Francais.\n\nFrom 1912 to 1918, Ezra was one of the nine-member Shanghai Municipal Council that administered the lawless International Settlement. Despite an obvious conflict of interest in relation to his opium business, Ezra refused to resign from the Council. In 1919 Ezra resigned from public life because of a gambling scandal involving his brother, Judah, who had paid the favourite team to lose in a baseball tournament in 1918.\n\nEzra died of a cerebral hemorrhage at the Shanghai Nursing Home after collapsing in his office at Kiukiang Road about noon on Thursday, 15 December 1921, aged only 38, in abject poverty and isolation, abandoned by his former colleagues. Ezra was buried at the Baikal Road Jewish Cemetery in the Yangpu District after a service conducted by Rabbi Hirsch.\n\nEzra's premature death accelerated the decline of the family's prestige and wealth. According to Douglas Valentine, \"Left to their own devices, the degenerate Ezra brothers squandered the family fortune and by the mid-1920s had decided to trafficking in illicit drugs.\" After 1925 Judah and Isaac both moved to San Francisco, where they were among the very first to import narcotics from Asia to the United States. The Ezra brothers formed a connection with Italian Mafiosi Antone \"Black Tony\" Parmiagni, Charles \"Lucky\" Luciano and Frank Costello, Jewish gangster Meyer Lansky, and with Ye Ching Ho (Pinyin: Ye Qinghe), also known as Paul Yip (or Paul Yi), an agent of Chiang Kai-shek's Kuomintang and with the approval of Chiang's Nationalist government, \"which relied on opium profits for its survival\". In May 1933 the Ezra brothers were arrested in California for distributing narcotics on the West Coast of the United States. Despite their guilty pleas and co-operation with authorities in testifying against their confederates, they were fined $12,000 each and were imprisoned for twelve years, thus \"bringing their family's fortunes to an abrupt and dramatic conclusion.\" After their release from prison, the Ezra brothers were deported.\n\n"}
{"id": "51280091", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51280091", "title": "Elisheva Bikhovski", "text": "Elisheva Bikhovski\n\nElisheva Bikhovski () (born Elizaveta Ivanovna Zhirkov (); September 20, 1888 – March 27, 1949) — was a Russian-Israeli poet, writer, literary critic and translator, often known simply by her adopted Biblical Hebrew name Elishéva (). Her Russian Orthodox father, Ivan Zhirkov, was a village teacher who later became a bookseller and textbook publisher; her mother was descended from Irish Catholics who had settled in Russia after the Napoleonic Wars (1803-1815). Elisheva wrote most of her works in Hebrew, and also translated English and Hebrew poetry into Russian.\n\nOn the death of her mother in 1891, she moved to Moscow with her aunt, an older sister of her mother, where she lived surrounded by the English language and culture. Though not culturally Jewish, she became the classmate of Jewish girls who introduced her to their culture and traditions, and she began to write poetry in 1907. Not at first differentiating between Hebrew and Yiddish as the “language of the Jews,” she began studying Yiddish — which, she wrote, because of its kinship to other European languages, especially German, she found easy to understand. She learned the Hebrew alphabet from a Hebrew grammar book owned by her brother, the philologist and Esperantist Lev Zhirkov (1885–1963), a specialist in Persian and Caucasian languages. She studied both Russian and English literature, graduating from a grammar school for girls and in 1910 becoming certified as a teacher at a progressive school of Stanislaus Shatsky's and Alexander Zelenko's Children's Work and Play Society through courses that trained preschool and elementary teachers according to the system of the innovative German educator Friedrich Fröbel (1782–1852).\n\nElisheva recalls in her memoir that already in elementary school she had become familiar with names of places that featured in adventure books for young people, including several Latin American cities and Galveston, Texas. Her interest in Hebrew was kindled after she chanced upon a Hebrew-language newspaper and saw an advertisement for a steamship company recommended as an easy, convenient way to cross the Atlantic Ocean. At that time Galveston was a major port of entry to the United States for European emigrants, and with the aid of a German-language textbook for scholars of Biblical Hebrew, she was able to puzzle out first the name of Galveston and later the names of other geographical locations from which telegrams were sent for newspaper publication, such as London, Saint Petersburg and Berlin. But except for the datelines at the tops of news stories, she was unable to comprehend anything from that newspaper. Eventually, she writes, someone explained that there were two separate “Jewish” languages, both written in the same letters but very, very different in vocabulary and grammar.\n\nThus it was that in 1913 she began studying Hebrew through evening classes at the “Общество распространения правильных сведений о евреях и еврействе”, \"Obshchestvo rasprostraneniya pravil'nykh svedeniy o yevreyakh i yevreystve\" (“Society for the dissemination of correct information about Jews and Judaism”), founded in 1906 by a group of Jewish public figures in Moscow that included Uri Nissan Gnessin (1879–1913), Yosef Haim Brenner (1881–1921), Echiel Tschlenow (1864–1918) and her future husband, Simeon Bikhovski (1880–1932), who also began the publishing house \"Nisyonot\" (“Experiments”) in that year. For the first three months she had a young teacher whom she characterized as “both incredibly gifted and infinitely devoted to his cause.” The lessons were conducted by the direct method of “Hebrew through Hebrew”, mainly through oral instruction and without a textbook.\n\nAlthough that teacher was popular with his pupils, he aroused suspicion for going about in Moscow with a light summer coat and without galoshes. He had invited some of his students, who did not know enough Hebrew to be able to study on their own, to take Russian-language lessons in the Tanakh, or Jewish scriptures. The lessons, sporadic and conducted at the homes of various students, led to the group's being perceived as a new and possibly dangerous revolutionary group, and arrests and an inquiry followed. Lacking the required “право жительства”, \"pravo zhitel'stva\" (right of residence) in the capital, the teacher was regarded as living there illegally and was forced to leave Moscow, but Elisheva continued to learn Hebrew off and on during the next two years.\n\nOn the death of her father in 1917, Elisheva returned to Ryazan, the city of her birth. With that year's fall of the Russian monarchy, she witnessed street demonstrations “in celebration of freedom”, which had been forbidden under the former regime. In one of these demonstrations, she participated with a group of Jewish youths, marching in an orderly way under the new national flag singing \"Hatikvah\", a modified version of which eventually became Israel’s national anthem.\n\nIn Ryazan, with some sleuthing and the help of a local rabbi, she was led to a scholar in an attic room who used to tutor boys in reciting the Jewish prayer book, the Siddur. This teacher was very young but with a thick, curly black beard, who combined, she wrote, “a taste for biblical grandeur with childlike naïveté.” After she demonstrated her ability to read the prayer book's morning blessing (\"Modah ani lefanecha...\" (“I thank You...”), he consented to help her continue her Hebrew study. Unfortunately, she wrote, he tended to direct conversation towards social and political problems, and her language lessons with him did not long continue. She tried from time to time to study with Kantorovich's “Теория иврита”, \"Teoriya ivrita\", a book she disparaged as “clearly outdated” with Russian explanations, translation exercises from Hebrew into Russian and back, and many “completely meaningless”, context-free sentences like: “Reuben lay on the bed with a bandage on his forehead.” Later she found another teacher, but, Elisheva writes, neither he nor she had suitable textbooks. Though that teacher had taught for many years, he had never taught the direct method, so they had to make use of Kantorovich's book. From 1918 to 1919 she studied with another Hebrew teacher, a graduate of Herzliya Hebrew Gymnasium in Jaffa, a city that the British forces had just captured from the Ottoman Empire and which soon became part of the British Mandate for Palestine. The young man had come to Russia to visit relatives but had been drafted into the army. Wearing his regulation bulky grey uniform and so-called beetle-crusher boots, he met Elisheva in the street and the two were able to converse in Hebrew with the Sephardic pronunciation that Eliezer Ben Yehuda, the reviver of modern spoken Hebrew, was said to have preferred to the Ashkenazic one. “Before then,” she said, “it had not occurred to any of my teachers that it was possible to have a conversation in Hebrew.”\n\nBeginning in 1915, Elisheva's first translations from Yiddish into Russian were published in the Russian-language Jewish journal “Еврейская Жизнь” \"Evreskaya Zhizn\" (“Jewish Life”). These are mainly short stories by Hersh Dovid Nomberg (1876–1927), poems by Shmuel-Yankev Imber (1889–1942?) and indirect translations, via Hayim Nahman Bialik's Yiddish version, of the Hebrew poems of the 12th-century Judah Halevi. Later she began to translate into Russian the works of contemporary Hebrew writers such as Gershon Shofman (1880–1972) and Yosef Haim Brenner (1881–1921).\n\nDuring her time in Ryazan between 1917 and 1919, as her Hebrew skills were deepening, she composed over 200 Russian poems, published by her fiancé Simeon Bikhovski in two 1919 collections, “Минуты” \"Minuty\" (“Minutes”) and “Тайные песни” \"Tainye Pesni\" (“Secret songs”). Both were published under her pseudonym “E. Lisheva” and showed a strong attachment to and longing for Jewish culture. From 1920, when she married Bikhovski, she published her first poems in Hebrew and definitively adopted the name Elisheva instead of her original Russian given name Elizaveta. Apparently influenced by both her original Hebrew teacher and by her husband, she now adopted Hebrew as her sole working language and ceased writing in Russian; Simeon himself adopted the Hebrew form of his name as Shimon. They married in a civil registry office because their difference of religions prohibited a religious wedding.\n\nElisheva's poetry also appeared in the almanac \"Ha-Tkufa\" (“Epoch”, Warsaw, 1921), the magazine \"Ha-Toren\" (“The Mast”, New York, 1922), \"Hapoel Hatzair\" (“The Young Worker”, Tel Aviv, 1923) and \"Ha-Olam\" ( \"The World\", London, 1925). In 1925 the Bikhovskis moved to Palestine, with their young daughter Miriam (b. 1924), settling near the Herzliya Hebrew Gymnasium in Jaffa. There she published two poetry collections, \"Kos ktana\" (“Small Bowl,” Tel Aviv, 1926) and \"Haruzim\" (“Rhymes,” Tel Aviv, 1928), and her employment of Sephardic pronunciation in her poetry became the accepted norm. As one of Palestine's first Hebrew poets, Elisheva helped give form to the literary life of the emerging country, explaining: “I can point to but one goal in my work — to aid as much as possible in the development of Hebrew poetry in the Hebrew language that we speak among ourselves every day with the Sephardic pronunciation. Therefore I have refrained from all experimentation and pursuit of new forms or innovations in my poetry, because first and foremost I want to see Hebrew poetry that is vital, natural and inextricably linked with our language and our lives.”\n\nThe Jewish public were quite moved by Elisheva's having left her people and language behind to join the Jewish newcomers in their emergent homeland in Palestine. The literary community initially greeted her with enthusiasm, arranging readings of her works, which were widely published, even to the point that her popularity aroused resentment of some young poets (the \"Ketuvim\" “Writings” group, headed by Avraham Shlonsky, 1900–1973) and made her a target in their struggle against the older poets (the \"Moznayim\" “Scales” group, led by Hayyim Nahman Bialik, of which Elisheva herself was a member). This period lasted only seven years (1925–1932), during which Elisheva produced the bulk of her Hebrew poetry, prose, essays and literary criticism, with works published in the Hebrew press in Palestine (Moznayim, Do’ar ha-Yom) and abroad (Ha-Tkufa, Ha-Toren and Ha-Olam), or in books published by her husband's publishing house, Tomer. \"Elisheva: Kovez Ma’amarim odot ha-Meshoreret Elisheva\" (“Elisheva: Collected articles about the poet Elisheva” appeared in several editions in Tel Aviv and Warsaw, beginning in 1927, and \"Meshorer ve-Adam\" (“Poet and man”), an essay on the poetry of Alexander Blok, appeared in 1929). \"Kos Ketanah\" was the first book of poems by a woman poet, and \"Simta’ot\" the first novel by a woman, to be published in Palestine. Some of her small and melodious poems have been set to music, translations of individual Hebrew poems into Yiddish, Russian, Dutch, English, French, German, Hungarian, Italian, Polish and Welsh have been published by various periodicals, and new translations into Russian were included in a collection entitled \"Я себя до конца рассказала\" (“I told myself before the end,” Biblioteka Alia, 1981, 1990.)\n\nDespite her writing career and his publishing business, the couple often found themselves in dire financial straits, and Elisheva was several times forced to leave her husband and daughter behind for literary tours of Jewish communities in Europe where she did poetry readings and told stories to large audiences at specially arranged events; during the school vacation in summer, her husband and daughter would accompany her. In the summer of 1932, in the midst of such a tour in Chișinău — then in Romania and now in Moldova — her husband, Shimon, suddenly died. Elisheva returned to Tel Aviv, sorrowing at her husband's death, and her attempts at earning a livelihood (among other things, as a librarian at Tel Aviv's Sha’ar Zion public library) were unsuccessful. Although she had earned a living from her literary tours of Europe, she and her daughter now fell into absolute poverty. She moved into a rundown shack on the edge of Tel Aviv, where she was saved from starvation when the poet Hayim Nahman Bialik secured for her a modest stipend of $15 monthly from the non-profit Israel Matz Foundation, a New York nonprofit organization established to aid indigent Hebrew writers.\n\nBitter and hurt over no longer being in literary favour among the Jews of her adopted Palestinian homeland, she cut herself off from society and ceased publishing new work. She did some translations, which she considered insignificant, but was forced to make ends meet by working as a laundress. Her daughter Miriam Littel served in the British Auxiliary Territorial Service (ATS) in Egypt during World War I and in 1946 married a British soldier, with whom she had three daughters, and in 1949 Elisheva had planned to visit them in England. Because she was not feeling well, however, some friends from the Davar HaPoelet women's magazine paid for her to have a visit to the hot springs in Tiberias, where she died of cancer on March 27, 1949. Despite the deep affection Elisheva maintained for Jewish culture and its involvement in the eventual establishment of the state of Israel, she had never converted to Judaism — a fact that she never hid; she always remained an Orthodox Christian — so difficulties arose as to the place of burial. Only upon the intervention of the chairman of the Hebrew Writers Association in Israel was it agreed that she could be buried in the cemetery of Kvutzat Kinneret, near the grave of the poet Rachel Bluwstein.\n\nAccording to Yaffah Berlovitz, Elisheva represented the early 20th-century schools of Futurist and Acmeist poetry, which supplanted the Russian Symbolist movement of the late 19th century.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "12471", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12471", "title": "Gnosticism", "text": "Gnosticism\n\nGnosticism (from \"gnostikos\", \"having knowledge\", from , knowledge) is a modern name for a variety of ancient religious ideas and systems, originating in Jewish-Christian milieux in the first and second century AD. These systems believed that the material world is created by an emanation of the highest God, trapping the divine spark within the human body. This divine spark could be liberated by \"gnosis\". Some of the core teachings include the following:\n\nThe Gnostic ideas and systems flourished in the Mediterranean world in the second century AD, in conjunction with and influenced by the early Christian movements and Middle Platonism. After the second century, a decline set in, but Gnosticism persisted throughout the centuries as an undercurrent of Western culture, remanifesting with the Renaissance as Western esotericism, taking prominence with modern spirituality. In the Persian Empire, Gnosticism spread as far as China with Manicheism, while Mandaeism is still alive in Iraq.\n\nA major question in scholarly research is the qualification of Gnosticism, based on the study of its texts, as either an interreligious phenomenon or as an independent religion.\n\n\"Gnosis\" refers to knowledge based on personal experience or perception. In a religious context, \"gnosis\" is mystical or esoteric knowledge based on direct participation with the divine. In most Gnostic systems, the sufficient cause of salvation is this \"knowledge of\" (\"acquaintance with\") the divine. It is an inward \"knowing\", comparable to that encouraged by Plotinus (neoplatonism), and differs from Christian proto-orthodox views. Gnostics are \"those who are oriented toward knowledge and understanding – or perception and learning – as a particular modality for living\".\n\nThe usual meaning of \"gnostikos\" in Classical Greek texts is \"learned\" or \"intellectual\", such as used by Plato in the comparison of \"practical\" (\"praktikos\") and \"intellectual\" (\"gnostikos\"). Plato's use of \"learned\" is fairly typical of Classical texts.\n\nBy the Hellenistic period, it began to also be associated with Greco-Roman mysteries, becoming synonymous with the Greek term \"musterion\". The adjective is not used in the New Testament, but Clement of Alexandria speaks of the \"learned\" (\"gnostikos\") Christian in complimentary terms. The use of \"gnostikos\" in relation to heresy originates with interpreters of Irenaeus. Some scholars consider that Irenaeus sometimes uses \"gnostikos\" to simply mean \"intellectual\", whereas his mention of \"the intellectual sect\" is a specific designation.\n\nThe term \"Gnosticism\" does not appear in ancient sources, and was first coined in the 17th century by Henry More in a commentary on the seven letters of the Book of Revelation, where More used the term \"Gnosticisme\" to describe the heresy in Thyatira. The term \"Gnosticism\" was derived from the use of the Greek adjective \"gnostikos\" (Greek γνωστικός, \"learned\", \"intellectual\") by St. Irenaeus (c. 185 AD) to describe the school of Valentinus as \"he legomene gnostike haeresis\" \"the heresy called Learned (gnostic).\"\n\nThe earliest origins of Gnosticism are obscure and still disputed. The Christian groups called Gnostics a heresy of Christianity, but according to the modern scholars the theology's origin is closely related to Jewish sectarian milieus and early Christian sects. Scholars debate Gnosticism's origins as having roots in Neoplatonism and Buddhism, due to similarities in beliefs, but ultimately, its origins are currently unknown. As Christianity developed and became more popular, so did Gnosticism with both groups often existing in the same places. The Gnostic belief was widespread within Christianity until Christianity expelled the group in the second and third centuries (C.E.). Gnosticism became the first group to be declared heresy.\n\nSome scholars prefer to speak of \"gnosis\" when referring to first-century ideas that later developed into gnosticism, and to reserve the term \"gnosticism\" for the synthesis of these ideas into a coherent movement in the second century. No gnostic texts have been discovered that pre-date Christianity, and \"pre-Christian Gnosticism as such is hardly attested in a way to settle the debate once and for all.\"\n\nContemporary scholarship largely agrees that Gnosticism has Jewish or Judeo-Christian origins, originating in the late first century AD in nonrabbinical Jewish sects and early Christian sects.\n\nMany heads of gnostic schools were identified as Jewish Christians by Church Fathers, and Hebrew words and names of God were applied in some gnostic systems. The cosmogonic speculations among Christian Gnostics had partial origins in Ma`aseh Bereshit and Ma`aseh Merkabah. This thesis is most notably put forward by Gershom Scholem (1897–1982) and Gilles Quispel (1916–2006). Scholem detected Jewish \"gnosis\" in the imagery of the merkavah, which can also be found in \"Christian\" Gnostic documents, for example the being \"caught away\" to the third heaven mentioned by Paul the Apostle. Quispel sees Gnosticism as an independent Jewish development, tracing its origins to Alexandrian Jews, to which group Valentinus was also connected. According to Robert M. Grant, Gnosticism developed out of \"the remains of apocalyptic eschatological expectations after the fall of Jerusalem\", which shattered the hopes of the coming of God's kingdom on earth and led to a rejection of the world. Gnosticism united material from the \"outer fringes of Judaism\" such as the Essenes and the Diaspora Judaism of the Aramaic Syro-Mesopotamian world.\n\nMany of the Nag Hammadi texts make reference to Judaism, in some cases with a violent rejection of the Jewish God. Gershom Scholem once described Gnosticism as \"the Greatest case of metaphysical anti-Semitism\". Professor Steven Bayme said gnosticism would be better characterized as anti-Judaism. Recent research into the origins of Gnosticism shows a strong Jewish influence, particularly from Hekhalot literature.\n\nWithin early Christianity, the teachings of Paul and John may have been a starting point for Gnostic ideas, with a growing emphasis on the opposition between flesh and spirit, the value of charisma, and the disqualification of the Jewish law. The mortal body belonged to the world of the \"archons\", and only the spirit or soul could be saved. The term \"gnostikos\" may have acquired a deeper significance here.\n\nAlexandria was of central importance for the birth of Gnosticism. The Christian \"ecclesia\" (i. e. congregation, church) was of Jewish–Christian origin, but also attracted Greek members, and various strand of thought were available, such as \"Judaic apocalypticism, speculation on divine wisdom, Greek philosophy, and Hellenistic mystery religions.\"\n\nRegarding the angel Christology of some early Christians, Darrell Hannah notes:\nThe pseudepigraphical Christian text \"Ascension of Isaiah\" identifies Jesus with angel Christology:\nThe Shepherd of Hermas is a Christian literary work considered as canonical scripture by some of the early Church fathers such as Irenaeus. Jesus is identified with angel Christology in parable 5, when the author mentions a Son of God, as a virtuous man filled with a Holy \"pre-existent spirit\".\n\nIn the 1880s Gnostic connections with neo-Platonism were proposed. Ugo Bianchi, who organised the Congress of Messina of 1966 on the origins of Gnosticism, also argued for Orphic and Platonic origins. Gnostics borrowed significant ideas and terms from Platonism, using Greek philosophical concepts throughout their text, including such concepts as hypostasis (reality, existence), \"ousia\" (essence, substance, being), and demiurge (creator God). Both Sethian Gnostics and Valentinian Gnostics seem to have been influenced by Plato, Middle Platonism, and Neo-Pythagoreanism academies or schools of thought. Both schools attempted \"an effort towards conciliation, even affiliation\" with late antique philosophy, and were rebuffed by some Neoplatonists, including Plotinus.\n\nEarly research into the origins of Gnosticism proposed Persian origins or influences, spreading to Europe and incorporating Jewish elements. According to Wilhelm Bousset (1865–1920), Gnosticism was a form of Iranian and Mesopotamian syncretism, and Richard August Reitzenstein (1861–1931) most famously situated the origins of Gnosticism in Persia.\n\nCarsten Colpe (b. 1929) has analyzed and criticised the Iranian hypothesis of Reitzenstein, showing that many of his hypotheses are untenable. Nevertheless, Geo Widengren (1907–1996) argued for the origin of (Mandaean) Gnosticism in Mazdean (Zoroastrianism) Zurvanism, in conjunction with ideas from the Aramaic Mesopotamian world.\n\nIn 1966, at the Congress of Median, Buddhologist Edward Conze noted phenomenological commonalities between Mahayana Buddhism and Gnosticism, in his paper \"Buddhism and Gnosis\", following an early suggestion put forward by Isaac Jacob Schmidt. The influence of Buddhism in any sense on either the \"gnostikos\" Valentinus (c.170) or the Nag Hammadi texts (3rd century) is not supported by modern scholarship, although Elaine Pagels (1979) called it a \"possibility\".\n\nThe Syrian–Egyptian traditions postulate a remote, supreme Godhead, the Monad. From this highest divinity emanate lower divine beings, known as Aeons. The Demiurge, one of those Aeons, creates the physical world. Divine elements \"fall\" into the material realm, and are locked within human beings. This divine element returns to the divine realm when Gnosis, esoteric or intuitive knowledge of the divine element within, is obtained.\n\nGnostic systems postulate a dualism between God and the world, varying from the \"radical dualist\" systems of Manichaeism to the \"mitigated dualism\" of classic gnostic movements. Radical dualism, or absolute dualism, posits two co-equal divine forces, while in \"mitigated dualism\" one of the two principles is in some way inferior to the other. In \"qualified monism\" the second entity may be divine or semi-divine. Valentinian Gnosticism is a form of monism, expressed in terms previously used in a dualistic manner.\n\nGnostics tended toward asceticism, especially in their sexual and dietary practice. In other areas of morality, Gnostics were less rigorously ascetic, and took a more moderate approach to correct behaviour. In normative early Christianity the Church administered and prescribed the correct behaviour for Christians, while in Gnosticism it was the internalised motivation that was important. Ritualistic behaviour was not important unless it was based on a personal, internal motivation. Ptolemy's \"Epistle to Flora\" describes a general asceticism, based on the moral inclination of the individual.\n\nIn many Gnostic systems, God is known as the \"Monad\", the One. God is the high source of the pleroma, the region of light. The various emanations of God are called æons. According to Hippolytus, this view was inspired by the Pythagoreans, who called the first thing that came into existence the \"Monad\", which begat the dyad, which begat the numbers, which begat the point, begetting lines, etc.\n\nThe Sethian cosmogony as most famously contained in the Apocryphon (\"Secret book\") of John describes an unknown God, very similar to the orthodox apophatic theology, but different from the orthodox teachings that this God is the creator of heaven and earth. Orthodox theologians often attempt to define God through a series of explicit positive statements: he is omniscient, omnipotent, and truly benevolent. The Sethian hidden transcendent God is, by contrast, defined through negative theology: he is immovable, invisible, intangible, ineffable; commonly, \"he\" is seen as being hermaphroditic, a potent symbol for being, as it were, \"all-containing\". In the Apocryphon of John, this god is good in that it bestows goodness. After the apophatic statements, the process of the Divine in action are used to describe the effect of such a god.\n\n\"Pleroma\" (Greek πληρωμα, \"fullness\") refers to the totality of God's powers. The heavenly pleroma is the center of divine life, a region of light \"above\" (the term is not to be understood spatially) our world, occupied by spiritual beings such as aeons (eternal beings) and sometimes archons. Jesus is interpreted as an intermediary aeon who was sent from the pleroma, with whose aid humanity can recover the lost knowledge of the divine origins of humanity. The term is thus a central element of Gnostic cosmology.\n\nPleroma is also used in the general Greek language, and is used by the Greek Orthodox church in this general form, since the word appears in the book of Colossians. Proponents of the view that Paul was actually a gnostic, such as Elaine Pagels, view the reference in Colossians as a term that has to be interpreted in a gnostic sense.\n\nThe Supreme Light or Consciousness descends through a series of stages, gradations, worlds, or hypostases, becoming progressively more material and embodied. In time it will turn around to return to the One (epistrophe), retracing its steps through spiritual knowledge and contemplation.\n\nIn many Gnostic systems, the aeons are the various emanations of the superior God or Monad. From this first being, also an æon, a series of different emanations occur, beginning in certain Gnostic texts with the hermaphroditic Barbelo, from which successive pairs of aeons emanate, often in male–female pairings called \"syzygies\". The numbers of these pairings varied from text to text, though some identify their number as being thirty. The aeons as a totality constitute the \"pleroma\", the \"region of light\". The lowest regions of the pleroma are closest to the darkness; that is, the physical world\n\nTwo of the most commonly paired æons were Christ and \"Sophia\" (Greek: \"Wisdom\"); the latter refers to Christ as her \"consort\" in \"A Valentinian Exposition\".\n\nIn Gnostic tradition, the term \"Sophia\" (Σoφíα, Greek for \"wisdom\") refers to the final and lowest emanation of God. In most if not all versions of the gnostic myth, Sophia births the demiurge, who in turn brings about the creation of materiality. The positive or negative depiction of materiality thus resides a great deal on mythic depictions of Sophia's actions. She is occasionally referred to by the Hebrew equivalent of \"Achamoth\" (this is a feature of Ptolemy's version of the Valentinian gnostic myth). Jewish Gnosticism with a focus on Sophia was active by 90 AD.\n\n\"Sophia\", emanating without her partner, resulted in the production of the \"Demiurge\" (Greek: lit. \"public builder\"), who is also referred to as \"Yaldabaoth\" and variations thereof in some Gnostic texts. This creature is concealed outside the pleroma; in isolation, and thinking itself alone, it creates materiality and a host of co-actors, referred to as archons. The demiurge is responsible for the creation of mankind; trapping elements of the pleroma stolen from Sophia inside human bodies. In response, the Godhead emanates two savior aeons, \"Christ\" and \"the Holy Spirit\"; Christ then embodies itself in the form of Jesus, in order to be able to teach man how to achieve gnosis, by which they may return to the pleroma.\n\nThe term \"demiurge\" derives from the Latinized form of the Greek term \"dēmiourgos\", δημιουργός, literally \"public or skilled worker\". This figure is also called \"Yaldabaoth\", Samael (Aramaic: \"sæmʻa-ʼel\", \"blind god\"), or \"Saklas\" (Syriac: \"sækla\", \"the foolish one\"), who is sometimes ignorant of the superior god, and sometimes opposed to it; thus in the latter case he is correspondingly malevolent. Other names or identifications are Ahriman, El, Satan, and Yahweh.\n\nThe demiurge creates the physical universe and the physical aspect of humanity. The demiurge typically creates a group of co-actors named archons who preside over the material realm and, in some cases, present obstacles to the soul seeking ascent from it. The inferiority of the demiurge's creation may be compared to the technical inferiority of a work of art, painting, sculpture, etc. to the thing the art represents. In other cases it takes on a more ascetic tendency to view material existence negatively, which then becomes more extreme when materiality, including the human body, is perceived as evil and constrictive, a deliberate prison for its inhabitants.\n\nMoral judgements of the demiurge vary from group to group within the broad category of Gnosticism, viewing materiality as being inherently evil, or as merely flawed and as good as its passive constituent matter allows.\n\nIn late antiquity some variants of Gnosticism used the term archon to refer to several servants of the demiurge. In this context they may be seen as having the roles of the angels and demons of the Old Testament.\n\nAccording to Origen's \"Contra Celsum\", a sect called the Ophites posited the existence of seven archons, beginning with Iadabaoth or Ialdabaoth, who created the six that follow: Iao, Sabaoth, Adonaios, Elaios, Astaphanos, and Horaios. Similarly to the Mithraic Kronos and Vedic Narasimha, a form of Vishnu, Ialdabaoth had a head of a lion.\n\nOther Gnostic concepts are:\n\nJesus is identified by some Gnostics as an embodiment of the supreme being who became incarnate to bring \"gnōsis\" to the earth, while others adamantly denied that the supreme being came in the flesh, claiming Jesus to be merely a human who attained divinity through gnosis and taught his disciples to do the same. Among the Mandaeans, Jesus was considered a \"mšiha kdaba\" or \"false messiah\" who perverted the teachings entrusted to him by John the Baptist. Still other traditions identify Mani and Seththird son of Adam and Eveas salvific figures.\n\nThree periods can be discerned in the development of Gnosticism:\n\nDuring the first period, three types of tradition developed:\n\nThe movement spread in areas controlled by the Roman Empire and Arian Goths, and the Persian Empire. It continued to develop in the Mediterranean and Middle East before and during the 2nd and 3rd centuries, but decline also set in during the third century, due to a growing aversion from the Catholic Church, and the economic and cultural deterioration of the Roman Empire. Conversion to Islam, and the Albigensian Crusade (1209–1229), greatly reduced the remaining number of Gnostics throughout the Middle Ages, though a few Mandaean communities still exist. Gnostic and pseudo-gnostic ideas became influential in some of the philosophies of various esoteric mystical movements of the 19th and 20th centuries in Europe and North America, including some that explicitly identify themselves as revivals or even continuations of earlier gnostic groups.\n\nDillon notes that Gnosticism raises questions about the development of early Christianity.\n\nThe Christian heresiologists, most notably Irenaeus, regarded Gnosticism as a Christian heresy. Modern scholarship notes that early Christianity was very diverse, and Christian orthodoxy only settled in the 4thcentury, when the Roman Empire declined and Gnosticism lost its influence. Gnostics and proto-orthodox Christians shared some terminology. Initially, they were hard to distinguish from each other.\n\nAccording to Walter Bauer, \"heresies\" may well have been the original form of Christianity in many regions. This theme was further developed by Elaine Pagels, who argues that \"the proto-orthodox church found itself in debates with gnostic Christians that helped them to stabilize their own beliefs.\" According to Gilles Quispel, Catholicism arose in response to Gnosticism, establishing safeguards in the form of the monarchic episcopate, the creed, and the canon of holy books.\n\nThe Gnostic movements may contain information about the historical Jesus, since some texts preserve sayings which show similarities with canonical sayings. Especially the \"Gospel of Thomas\" has a significant amount of parallel sayings. Yet, a striking difference is that the canonical sayings center on the coming endtime, while the Thomas-sayings center on a kingdom of heaven that is already here, and not a future event. According to Koester, this is because the Thomas-sayings are older, implying that in the earliest forms of Christianity Jesus was regarded as a wisdom-teacher. An alternative hypothesis states that the Thomas authors wrote in the second century, changing existing sayings and eliminating the apocalyptic concerns. According to April DeConinck, such a change occurred when the endtime did not come, and the Thomasine tradition turned toward a \"new theology of mysticism\" and a \"theological commitment to a fully-present kingdom of heaven here and now, where their church had attained Adam and Eve's divine status before the Fall.\"\n\nThe prologue of the Gospel of John describes the incarnated Logos, the light that came to earth, in the person of Jesus. The \"Apocryphon of John\" contains a scheme of three descendants from the heavenly realm, the third one being Jesus, just as in the Gospel of John. The similarities probably point to a relationship between gnostic ideas and the Johannine community. According to Raymond Brown, the Gospel of John shows \"the development of certain gnostic ideas, especially Christ as heavenly revealer, the emphasis on light versus darkness, and anti-Jewish animus.\" The Johannine material reveals debates about the redeemer myth. The Johannine letters show that there were different interpretations of the gospel story, and the Johannine images may have contributed to second-century Gnostic ideas about Jesus as a redeemer who descended from heaven. According to DeConinck, the Gospel of John shows a \"transitional system from early Christianity to gnostic beliefs in a God who transcends our world.\" According to DeConinck, the \"John\" shows a beginning bifurcation between Jesus' \"Father in Heaven\", and the Jews' \"Father of the Devil\", which may have developed into the gnostic idea of the Monad and the Demiurge.\n\nTertullian calls Paul \"the apostle of the heretics\", because Paul's writings were attractive to gnostics, and interpreted in a gnostic way, while Jewish Christians found him to stray from the Jewish roots of Christianity. Paul wrote to the Corinthian church members as \"having knowledge\" (, \"ton echonta gnosin\"). James Dunn claims that in some cases, Paul affirmed views that were closer to gnosticism than to proto-orthodox Christianity.\n\nAccording to Clement of Alexandria, the disciples of Valentinus said that Valentinus was a student of a certain Theudas, who was a student of Paul, and Elaine Pagels notes that Paul's epistles were interpreted by Valentinus in a gnostic way, and Paul could be considered a proto-gnostic as well as a proto-Catholic. Many Nag Hammadi texts, including, for example, the \"Prayer of Paul\" and the Coptic \"Apocalypse of Paul\", consider Paul to be \"the great apostle\". The fact that he claimed to have received his gospel directly by revelation from God appealed to the gnostics, who claimed \"gnosis\" from the risen Christ. The Naasenes, Cainites, and Valentinians referred to Paul's epistles. Timothy Freke and Peter Gandy have expanded upon this idea of Paul as a gnostic teacher; although their premise that Jesus was invented by early Christians based on an alleged Greco-Roman mystery cult has been dismissed by scholars. However, his revelation was different from the gnostic revelations.\n\nSyrian-Egyptian Gnosticism includes Sethianism, Valentinianism, Basilideans, Thomasine traditions, and Serpent Gnostics, as well as a number of other minor groups and writers. Hermeticism is also a western Gnostic tradition, though it differs in some respects from these other groups. The Syrian–Egyptian school derives much of its outlook from Platonist influences. It depicts creation in a series of emanations from a primal monadic source, finally resulting in the creation of the material universe. These schools tend to view evil in terms of matter that is markedly inferior to goodness and lacking spiritual insight and goodness rather than as an equal force.\n\nMany of these movements used texts related to Christianity, with some identifying themselves as specifically Christian, though quite different from the Orthodox or Roman Catholic forms. Jesus and several of his apostles, such as Thomas the Apostle, claimed as the founder of the Thomasine form of Gnosticism, figure in many Gnostic texts. Mary Magdalene is respected as a Gnostic leader, and is considered superior to the twelve apostles by some gnostic texts, such as the Gospel of Mary. John the Evangelist is claimed as a Gnostic by some Gnostic interpreters, as is even St. Paul. Most of the literature from this category is known to us through the Nag Hammadi Library.\n\nSethianism was one of the main currents of Gnosticism during the 2nd to 3rd centuries, and the prototype of Gnosticism as condemned by Irenaeus. Sethianism attributed its \"gnosis\" to Seth, third son of Adam and Eve and \"Norea\", wife of Noah, who also plays a role in Mandeanism and Manicheanism. Their main text is the \"Apocryphon of John\", which does not contain Christian elements, and is an amalgam of two earlier myths. Earlier texts such as Apocalypse of Adam show signs of being pre-Christian and focus on the Seth, third son of Adam and Eve. Later Sethian texts continue to interact with Platonism. Sethian texts such as Zostrianos and Allogenes draw on the imagery of older Sethian texts, but utilize \"a large fund of philosophical conceptuality derived from contemporary Platonism, (that is, late middle Platonism) with no traces of Christian content.\"\n\nAccording to John D. Turner, German and American scholarship views Sethianism as \"a distinctly inner-Jewish, albeit syncretistic and heterodox, phenomenon\", while British and French scholarship tends to see Sethianism as \"a form of heterodox Christian speculation\". Roelof vandenBroek notes that \"Sethianism\" may never have been a separate religious movement, and that the term refers rather to a set of mythological themes which occur in various texts.\n\nAccording to Smith, Sethianism may have begun as a pre-Christian tradition, possibly a syncretic cult that incorporated elements of Christianity and Platonism as it grew. According to Temporini, Vogt, and Haase, early Sethians may be identical to or related to the Nazarenes (sect), the Ophites, or the sectarian group called heretics by Philo.\n\nAccording to Turner, Sethianism was influenced by Christianity and Middle Platonism, and originated in the second century as a fusion of a Jewish baptizing group of possibly priestly lineage, the so-called \"Barbeloites\", named after Barbelo, the first emanation of the Highest God, and a group of Bibilical exegetes, the \"Sethites\", the \"seed of Seth\". At the end of the second century, Sethianism grew apart from the developing Christian orthodoxy, which rejected the docetian view of the Sethians on Christ. In the early third century, Sethianism was fully rejected by Christian heresiologists, as Sethianism shifted toward the contemplative practices of Platonism while losing interest in their own origins. In the late third century, Sethianism was attacked by neo-Platonists like Plotinus, and Sethianism became alienated from Platonism. In the early- to mid-fourth century, Sethianism fragmented into various sectarian Gnostic groups such as the Archontics, Audians, Borborites, and Phibionites, and perhaps Stratiotici, and Secundians). Some of these groups existed into the Middle Ages.\n\nAccording to Magris, Samaritan Baptist sects were an offshoot of John the Baptist. One offshoot was in turn headed by Dositheus, Simon Magus, and Menander. It was in this milieu that the idea emerged that the world was created by ignorant angels. Their baptismal ritual removed the consequences of sin, and led to a regeneration by which natural death, which was caused by these angels, was overcome. The Samaritan leaders were viewed as \"the embodiment of God's power, spirit, or wisdom, and as the redeemer and revealer of 'true knowledge.\n\nThe Simonians were centered on Simon Magus, the magician baptised by Philip and rebuked by Peter in Acts 8, who became in early Christianity the archetypal false teacher. The ascription by Justin Martyr, Irenaeus, and others of a connection between schools in their time and the individual in Acts 8 may be as legendary as the stories attached to him in various apocryphal books. Justin Martyr identifies Menander of Antioch as Simon Magus' pupil. According to Hippolytus, Simonianism is an earlier form of the Valentinian doctrine.\n\nThe Basilidians or Basilideans were founded by Basilides of Alexandria in the second century. Basilides claimed to have been taught his doctrines by Glaucus, a disciple of St. Peter, but could also have been a pupil of Menander. Basilidianism survived until the end of the 4thcentury as Epiphanius knew of Basilidians living in the Nile Delta. It was, however, almost exclusively limited to Egypt, though according to Sulpicius Severus it seems to have found an entrance into Spain through a certain Mark from Memphis. St. Jerome states that the Priscillianists were infected with it.\n\nValentinianism was named after its founder Valentinus (c. 100180), who was a candidate for bishop of Rome but started his own group when another was chosen. Valentinianism flourished after the middle of the 2nd century. The school was popular, spreading to Northwest Africa and Egypt, and through to Asia Minor and Syria in the east, and Valentinus is specifically named as \"gnostikos\" by Irenaeus. It was an intellectually vibrant tradition, with an elaborate and philosophically \"dense\" form of Gnosticism. Valentinus' students elaborated on his teachings and materials, and several varieties of their central myth are known.\n\nValentinian Gnosticism may have been monistic rather than dualistic. In the Valentinian myths, the creation of a flawed materiality is not due to any moral failing on the part of the Demiurge, but due to the fact that he is less perfect than the superior entities from which he emanated. Valentinians treat physical reality with less contempt than other Gnostic groups, and conceive of materiality not as a separate substance from the divine, but as attributable to an \"error of perception\" which becomes symbolized mythopoetically as the act of material creation.\n\nThe followers of Valentinius attempted to systematically decode the Epistles, claiming that most Christians made the mistake of reading the Epistles literally rather than allegorically. Valentinians understood the conflict between \"Jews\" and \"Gentiles\" in Romans to be a coded reference to the differences between \"Psychics\" (people who are partly spiritual but have not yet achieved separation from carnality) and \"Pneumatics\" (totally spiritual people). The Valentinians argued that such codes were intrinsic in gnosticism, secrecy being important to ensuring proper progression to true inner understanding.\n\nAccording to Bentley Layton \"Classical Gnosticism\" and \"The School of Thomas\" antedated and influenced the development of Valentinus, whom Layton called \"the great [Gnostic] reformer\" and \"the focal point\" of Gnostic development. While in Alexandria, where he was born, Valentinus probably would have had contact with the Gnostic teacher Basilides, and may have been influenced by him. Simone Petrement, while arguing for a Christian origin of Gnosticism, places Valentinus after Basilides, but before the Sethians. According to Petrement, Valentinus represented a moderation of the anti-Judaism of the earlier Hellenized teachers; the demiurge, widely regarded as a mythological depiction of the Old Testament God of the Hebrews, is depicted as more ignorant than evil.\n\nThe \"Thomasine Traditions\" refers to a group of texts which are attributed to the apostle Thomas. Karen L. King notes that \"Thomasine Gnosticism\" as a separate category is being criticised, and may \"not stand the test of scholarly scrutiny\".\n\nMarcion was a Church leader from Sinope (present-day Turkey), who preached in Rome around 150CE, but was expelled and started his own congregation, which spread throughout the Mediterranean. He rejected the Old Testament, and followed a limited Christian canon, which included only a redacted version of Luke, and ten edited letters of Paul. Some scholars do not consider him to be a gnostic, but his teachings clearly resemble some Gnostic teachings. He preached a radical difference between the God of the Old Testament, the Demiurge, the \"evil creator of the material universe\", and the highest God, the \"loving, spiritual God who is the father of Jesus\", who had sent Jesus to the earth to free mankind from the tyranny of the Jewish Law. Like the Gnostics, Marcion argued that Jesus was essentially a divine spirit appearing to men in the shape of a human form, and not someone in a true physical body. Marcion held that the heavenly Father (the father of Jesus Christ) was an utterly alien god; he had no part in making the world, nor any connection with it.\n\nHermeticism is closely related to Gnosticism, but its orientation is more positive.\n\n\nThe Persian Schools, which appeared in the western Persian province of Babylonia (in particular, within the Sassanid province of Asuristan), and whose writings were originally produced in the Aramaic dialects spoken in Babylonia at the time, are representative of what is believed to be among the oldest of the Gnostic thought forms. These movements are considered by most to be religions in their own right, and are not emanations from Christianity or Judaism.\n\nManichaeism was founded by the Prophet Mani (216–276). Mani's father was a member of the Jewish-Christian sect of the Elcesaites, a subgroup of the Gnostic Ebionites. At ages 12 and 24, Mani had visionary experiences of a \"heavenly twin\" of his, calling him to leave his father's sect and preach the true message of Christ. In 240–41, Mani travelled to the Indo-Greek Kingdom of the Sakhas in modern-day Afghanistan, where he studied Hinduism and its various extant philosophies. Returning in 242, he joined the court of Shapur I, to whom he dedicated his only work written in Persian, known as the \"Shabuhragan\". The original writings were written in Syriac Aramaic, in a unique Manichaean script.\n\nManichaeism conceives of two coexistent realms of light and darkness that become embroiled in conflict. Certain elements of the light became entrapped within darkness, and the purpose of material creation is to engage in the slow process of extraction of these individual elements. In the end the kingdom of light will prevail over darkness. Manicheanism inherits this dualistic mythology from Zurvanist Zoroastrianism, in which the eternal spirit Ahura Mazda is opposed by his antithesis, Angra Mainyu. This dualistic teaching embodied an elaborate cosmological myth that included the defeat of a primal man by the powers of darkness that devoured and imprisoned the particles of light.\n\nAccording to Kurt Rudolph, the decline of Manichaeism that occurred in Persia in the 5th century was too late to prevent the spread of the movement into the east and the west. In the west, the teachings of the school moved into Syria, Northern Arabia, Egypt and North Africa. There is evidence for Manicheans in Rome and Dalmatia in the 4th century, and also in Gaul and Spain. From Syria it progressed still farther, into Palestine, Asia Minor and Armenia. The influence of Manicheanism was attacked by imperial elects and polemical writings, but the religion remained prevalent until the 6th century, and still exerted influence in the emergence of the Paulicians, Bogomils and Cathari in the Middle Ages, until it was ultimately stamped out by the Catholic Church.\n\nIn the east, Rudolph relates, Manicheanism was able to bloom, because the religious monopoly position previously held by Christianity and Zoroastrianism had been broken by nascent Islam. In the early years of the Arab conquest, Manicheanism again found followers in Persia (mostly amongst educated circles), but flourished most in Central Asia, to which it had spread through Iran. Here, in 762, Manicheanism became the state religion of the Uyghur Empire.\n\nThe Mandaeans are Semites and speak a dialect of Eastern Aramaic known as Mandaic. Their religion has been practised primarily around the lower Karun, Euphrates and Tigris and the rivers that surround the Shatt-al-Arab waterway, part of southern Iraq and Khuzestan Province in Iran. Mandaeanism is still practiced in small numbers, in parts of southern Iraq and the Iranian province of Khuzestan, and there are thought to be between 60,000 and 70,000 Mandaeans worldwide.\n\nThe name of the group derives from the term \"Mandā d-Heyyi\", which roughly means \"Knowledge of Life\". Although the exact chronological origins of this movement are not known, John the Baptist eventually came to be a key figure in the religion, as an emphasis on baptism is part of their core beliefs. As with Manichaeism, despite certain ties with Christianity, Mandaeans do not believe in Moses, Jesus, or Mohammed. Their beliefs and practices likewise have little overlap with the religions that manifested from those religious figures and the two should not be confused. Significant amounts of original Mandaean Scripture, written in Mandaean Aramaic, survive in the modern era. The primary source text is known as the Genzā Rabbā and has portions identified by some scholars as being copied as early as the 3rd century. There is also the Qolastā, or Canonical Book of Prayer and The Book of John the Baptist (sidra ḏ-iahia).\n\nAfter its demise in the Mediterranean world, Gnosticism lived on in the periphery of the Byzantine Empire, and resurfaced in the western world. The Paulicians, an Adoptionist group which flourished between 650 and 872 in Armenia and the Eastern Themes of the Byzantine Empire, were accused by orthodox medieval sources of being Gnostic and quasi Manichaean Christian. The Bogomils, emerged in Bulgaria between 927 and 970 and spread throughout Europe. It was as synthesis of Armenian Paulicianism and the Bulgarian Orthodox Church reform movement.\n\nThe Cathars (Cathari, Albigenses or Albigensians) were also accused by their enemies of the traits of Gnosticism; though whether or not the Cathari possessed direct historical influence from ancient Gnosticism is disputed. If their critics are reliable the basic conceptions of Gnostic cosmology are to be found in Cathar beliefs (most distinctly in their notion of a lesser, Satanic, creator god), though they did not apparently place any special relevance upon knowledge (\"gnosis\") as an effective salvific force.\n\nThe message of the Islamic Prophet Muhammad shows, according to the time of its promulgation, close relations to Gnostic ideas. The Quran, just as the Gnostic cosmology makes a sharp distinction between this world and the afterlife. The notion of four rivers in heaven separating this world from the other, also appears frequently in Mandaean literature. However, according to Islam and unlike most Gnostic sects, not rejection of this world, but performing \"good deeds\" leads to the heaven. And according to the Islamic belief in strict Oneness of God, there was no room for a lower deity; such as the demiurge, According to Islam, both \"good\" and \"evil\" come from one God, but still, God is commonly thought of as being beyond human comprehension, in some Islamic schools of thought, identifiable with the Gnostic Monad. A position especially opposed by the Manichaeans. Ibn al-Muqaffa depicted the Islamic deity as an demonic entity who \"fights with humans and boasts about His victories\" and sitting on a throne, from which He can descend. It would be impossible that both light and darkness were created from one source, since they were regarded as two different eternal principles. Muslim theologist tried to counter this accusation by the example of a repeating sinner, who says: \"I laid, and I repent\". This would prove that good can also result out of evil. We can also found traces of an entity given authority over the lower world in early writings: Iblis is regarded by some Sufis as the owner of this world, and humans must avoid the treasures of this world, since they would belong to him. In the Ismailis work Umm al Kitab, Azazil's role resembles whose of the Gnostic demiurge. Like the demiurge, he is endowed with the ability to create his own world and seeks to imprison humans in the material world, but here, his power is limited and depends on the higher God. Such Gnostic anthropogenic can be found frequently among Ismaili traditions. However, the Ismailism were often criticised as non-Islamic. Ghazali characterized them, as a group who are just outwardly Shias but were actually adherence of a dualistic and philosophical religion. Further traces of Gnostic ideas can be found in Sufi anthropogenic. Like the gnostic conception of human beings imprisoned in matter, Sufi-traditions acknowledges the human soul is an accomplice of the material world and subject to bodily desires similar to the way archontic spheres envelop the pneuma. The Ruh must therefore gain victory over the lower and material-bound psyche, to overcome his animal nature. A human being captured by his animal desires, mistakenly claims autonomy and independence from the \"higher God\", thus resembling the lower deity in classical gnostic traditions. However, since the goal is not to abandon the created world, but just to free oneself from ones own lower desires, it can be disputed wether this can still be Gnostic, but rather a completion of the message of Muhammad. It seems that Gnostic ideas were an influential part of early Islamic development but later lost its influence. However the Gnostic light metaphorics and the idea of unity of existence still prevailed in later Islamic thought.\n\nGnostic ideas found a Jewish variation in the mystical study of Kabbalah. Many core Gnostic ideas reappear in Kabbalah, where they are used for dramatically reinterpreting earlier Jewish sources according to this new system. The Kabbalists originated in 13th-century Provence, which was at that time also the center of the Gnostic Cathars. While some scholars in the middle of the 20th century tried to assume an influence between the Cathar \"gnostics\" and the origins of the Kabbalah, this assumption has proved to be an incorrect generalization not substantiated by any original texts. On the other hand, other scholars, such as Scholem, have postulated that there was originally a \"Jewish gnosticism\", which influenced the early origins of gnosticism.\n\nKabbalah does not employ the terminology or labels of non-Jewish Gnosticism, but grounds the same or similar concepts in the language of the Torah (the first five books of the Hebrew Bible). The 13th-century Zohar (\"Splendor\"), a foundational text in Kabbalah, is written in the style of a Jewish Aramaic Midrash, clarifying the five books of the Torah with a new Kabbalistic system that uses completely Jewish terms.\n\nThe Mandaeans are an ancient Gnostic sect that have survived to this day and are found today in Iraq. Their namesake owes to their following John the Baptist and in that country, they have about five thousand followers. A number of ecclesiastical bodies that think of themselves as Gnostic have set up or re-founded since World War II, including the Ecclesia Gnostica, Apostolic Johannite Church, Ecclesia Gnostica Catholica, the Gnostic Church of France, the Thomasine Church, the Alexandrian Gnostic Church, the North American College of Gnostic Bishops, and the Universal Gnosticism of Samael Aun Weor.\n\nA number of 19th-century thinkers such as Arthur Schopenhauer, Albert Pike and Madame Blavatsky studied Gnostic thought extensively and were influenced by it, and even figures like Herman Melville and W. B. Yeats were more tangentially influenced. Jules Doinel \"re-established\" a Gnostic church in France in 1890, which altered its form as it passed through various direct successors (Fabre des Essarts as \"Tau Synésius\" and Joanny Bricaud as \"Tau Jean II\" most notably), and, though small, is still active today.\n\nEarly 20th-century thinkers who heavily studied and were influenced by Gnosticism include Carl Jung (who supported Gnosticism), Eric Voegelin (who opposed it), Jorge Luis Borges (who included it in many of his short stories), and Aleister Crowley, with figures such as Hermann Hesse being more moderately influenced. René Guénon founded the gnostic review, \"La Gnose\" in 1909, before moving to a more Perennialist position, and founding his Traditionalist School. Gnostic Thelemite organizations, such as Ecclesia Gnostica Catholica and Ordo Templi Orientis, trace themselves to Crowley's thought.\n\nThe discovery and translation of the Nag Hammadi library after 1945 has had a huge effect on Gnosticism since World War II. Intellectuals who were heavily influenced by Gnosticism in this period include Lawrence Durrell, Hans Jonas, Philip K. Dick and Harold Bloom, with Albert Camus and Allen Ginsberg being more moderately influenced. Celia Green has written on Gnostic Christianity in relation to her own philosophy.\n\nAlfred North Whitehead was aware of the existence of the newly discovered Gnostic scrolls. Accordingly, Michel Weber has proposed a Gnostic interpretation of his late metaphysics.\n\nPrior to the discovery of the Nag Hammadi library in 1945 Gnosticism was known primarily through the works of heresiologists, Church Fathers who opposed those movements. These writings had an antagonistic bias towards gnostic teachings, and were incomplete. Several heresiological writers, such as Hippolytus, made little effort to exactly record the nature of the sects they reported on, or transcribe their sacred texts. Reconstructions of incomplete Gnostic texts were attempted in modern times, but research on Gnosticism was coloured by the orthodox views of those heresiologists.\n\nJustin Martyr (c. 100/114 – c. 162/168) wrote the \"First Apology\", addressed to Roman Emperor Antoninus Pius, which criticising Simon Magus, Menander and Marcion. Since this time, both Simon and Menander have been considered as 'proto-Gnostic'. Irenaeus (died c. 202) wrote \"Against Heresies\" (c. 180–185), which identifies Simon Magus from Flavia Neapolis in Samaria as the inceptor of Gnosticism. From Samaria he charted an apparent spread of the teachings of Simon through the ancient \"knowers\" into the teachings of Valentinus and other, contemporary Gnostic sects. Hippolytus (170–235) wrote the ten-volume \"Refutation Against all Heresies\", of which eight have been unearthed. It also focuses on the connection between pre-Socratic (and therefore Pre-Incantation of Christ) ideas and the false beliefs of early gnostic heretical leaders. Thirty-three of the groups he reported on are considered Gnostic by modern scholars, including 'the foreigners' and 'the Seth people'. Hippolytus further presents individual teachers such as Simon, Valentinus, Secundus, Ptolemy, Heracleon, Marcus and Colorbasus. Tertullian (c. 155–230) from Carthage wrote \"Adversus Valentinianos\" ('Against the Valentinians'), c.206, as well as five books around 207–208 chronicling and refuting the teachings of Marcion.\n\nPrior to the discovery at Nag Hammadi, a limited number of texts were available to students of Gnosticism. Reconstructions were attempted from the records of the heresiologists, but these were necessarily coloured by the motivation behind the source accounts.\n\nThe Nag Hammadi library is a collection of Gnostic texts discovered in 1945 near Nag Hammadi, Upper Egypt. Twelve leather-bound papyrus codices buried in a sealed jar were found by a local farmer named Muhammed al-Samman. The writings in these codices comprised fifty-two mostly Gnostic treatises, but they also include three works belonging to the \"Corpus Hermeticum\" and a partial translation/alteration of Plato's \"Republic\". These codices may have belonged to a nearby Pachomian monastery, and buried after Bishop Athanasius condemned the use of non-canonical books in his Festal Letter of 367. Though the original language of composition was probably Greek, the various codices contained in the collection were written in Coptic. A 1st- or 2nd-century date of composition for the lost Greek originals has been proposed, though this is disputed; the manuscripts themselves date from the 3rd and 4th centuries. The Nag Hammadi texts demonstrated the fluidity of early Christian scripture and early Christianity itself.\n\nPrior to the discovery of Nag Hammadi, the Gnostic movements were largely perceived through the lens of the early church heresiologists. Johann Lorenz von Mosheim (1694–1755) proposed that Gnosticism developed on its own in Greece and Mesopotamia, spreading to the west and incorporating Jewish elements. According to Mosheim, Jewish thought took Gnostic elements and used them against Greek philosophy. J.Horn and Ernest Anton Lewald proposed Persian and Zoroastrian origins, while Jacques Matter described Gnosticism as an intrusion of eastern cosmological and theosophical speculation into Christianity.\n\nIn the 1880s Gnosticism was placed within Greek philosophy, especially neo-Platonism. Adolf von Harnack (1851–1930), who belonged to the \"School of the History of Dogma\" and proposed a \"Kirchengeschichtliches Ursprungsmodell\", saw gnosticism as an internal development within the church under the influence of Greek philosophy. According to Harnack, Gnosticism was the \"acute Hellenization of Christianity.\"\n\nThe \"Religionsgeschichtliche Schule\" (\"history of religions school\", 19th century) had a profound influence on the study of Gnosticism. The \"Religionsgeschichtliche Schule\" saw Gnosticism as a pre-Christian phenomenon, and Christian \"gnosis\" as only one, and even marginal instance of this phenomenon. According to Wilhelm Bousset (1865–1920), Gnosticism was a form of Iranian and Mesopotamian syncretism, and Eduard Norden (1868–1941) also proposed pre-Christian origins, while Richard August Reitzenstein (1861–1931), and Rudolf Bultmann (1884–1976) also situated the origins of Gnosticism in Persia. Hans Heinrich Schaeder (1896–1957) and Hans Leisegang saw Gnosticism as an amalgam of eastern thought in a Greek form.\n\nHans Jonas (1903–1993) took an intermediate approach, using both the comparative approach of the \"Religionsgeschichtliche Schule\" and the existentialist hermeneutics of Bultmann. Jonas emphasized the duality between God and the world, and concluded that Gnosticism cannot be derived from Platonism.\n\nContemporary scholarship largely agrees that Gnosticism has Jewish or Judeo-Christian origins; this theses is most notably put forward by Gershom G. Scholem (1897–1982) and Gilles Quispel (1916–2006).\n\nThe study of Gnosticism and of early Alexandrian Christianity received a strong impetus from the discovery of the Coptic Nag Hammadi Library in 1945. A great number of translations have been published, and the works of Elaine Pagels, Professor of Religion at Princeton University, especially \"The Gnostic Gospels\", which detailed the suppression of some of the writings found at Nag Hammadi by early bishops of the Christian church, has popularized Gnosticism in mainstream culture, but also incited strong responses and condemnations from clergical writers.\n\nAccording to Matthew J. Dillon, six trends can be discerned in the definitions of Gnosticism:\n\nThe 1966 Messina conference on the origins of gnosis and Gnosticism proposed to designate\nThis definition has now been abandoned. It created a religion, \"Gnosticism\", from the \"gnosis\" which was a widespread element of ancient religions, suggesting a homogeneous conception of gnosis by these Gnostic religions, which did not exist at the time.\n\nAccording to Dillon, the texts from Nag Hammadi made clear that this definition was limited, and that they are \"better classified by movements (such as Valentinian), mythological similarity (Sethian), or similar tropes (presence of a Demiurge).\" Dillon further notes that the Messian-definition \"also excluded pre-Christian Gnosticism and later developments, such as the Mandaeans and the Manichaeans.\"\n\nHans Jonas discerned two main currents of Gnosticism, namely Syrian-Egyptian, and Persian, which includes Manicheanism and Mandaeanism. Among the Syrian-Egyptian schools and the movements they spawned are a typically more Monist view. Persian Gnosticism possesses more dualist tendencies, reflecting a strong influence from the beliefs of the Persian Zurvanist Zoroastrians. The medieaval the Cathars, Bogomils, and Carpocratians seem to include elements of both categories.\n\nGilles Quispel divided Syrian-Egyptian Gnosticism further into Jewish Gnosticism (the \"Apocryphon of John\") and Christian Gnosis (Marcion, Basilides, Valentinus). This \"Christian Gnosticism\" was Christocentric, and influenced by Christian writings such as the Gospel of John and the Pauline epistles. Other authors speak rather of \"Gnostic Christians\", noting that Gnostics were a prominent substream in the early church.\n\nThe best known example of this approach is Adolf von Harnack (1851–1930), who stated that \"Gnosticism is the acute Hellenization of Christianity.\" According to Dillon, \"many scholars today continue in the vein of Harnack in reading gnosticism as a late and contaminated version of Christianity\", notably Darrell Block, who criticises Elaine Pagels for her view that early Christianity was wildly diverse.\n\nHans Jonas (1903–1993) took an existential phenomenological approach to Gnosticism. According to Jonas, alienation is a distinguishing characteristics of Gnosticism, making it different from contemporary religions. Jonas compares this alienation with the existentialist notion of \"geworfenheit\", being thrown into a hostile world.\n\nIn the late 1980s scholars voiced concerns about the broadness of \"Gnosticism\" as a meaningful category. Bentley Layton proposed to category Gnosticism by delineating which groups were marked as gnostic in ancient texts. According to Layton, this term was mainly applied by heresiologists to the myth described in the \"Apocryphon of John\", and was used mainly by the Sethians and the Ophites. According to Layton, texts which refer to this myth can be called \"classical Gnostic\".\n\nIn addition, Alastair Logan uses social theory to identify Gnosticism. He uses Rodney Stark and William Bainbridge's sociological theory on traditional religion, sects and cults. According to Logan, the Gnostics were a cult, at odds with the society at large.\n\nAccording to Michael Allen Williams, the concept of Gnosticism as a distinct religious tradition is questionable, since \"gnosoi\" was a pervasive characteristics of many religious traditions in antiquity, and not restricted to the so-called Gnostic systems. According to Williams, the conceptual foundations on which the category of Gnosticism rests are the remains of the agenda of the heresiologists. The early church heresiologists created an interpretive definition of Gnosticism, and modern scholarship followed this example and created a \"categorical\" definition. According to Williams the term needs replacing to more accurately reflect those movements it comprises,and suggests to replace it with the term \"the Biblical demiurgical tradition\".\n\nAccording to Karen King, scholars have \"unwittingly continued the project of ancient heresiologists\", searching for non-Christian influences, thereby continuing to portray a pure, original Christianity.\n\nCarl Jung approached Gnosticism from a psychological perspective, which was followed by Gilles Quispel. According to this approach, Gnosticism is a map for the human development, in which an undivided person, centered on the Self, develops out of the fragmentary personhood of young age. According to Quispel, gnosis is a third force in western culture, alongside faith and reason, which offers an experiential awareness of this Self.\n\nAccording to Ioan Culianu, gnosis is made possible through universal operations of the mind, which can be arrived at \"anytime, anywhere\". A similar suggestion has been made by Edward Conze, who suggested that the similarities between \"prajñā\" and \"sophia\" may be due to \"the actual modalities of the human mind\", which in certain conditions result in similar experiences.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1007272", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1007272", "title": "Gohei", "text": "Gohei\n\n, , or are wooden wands, decorated with two \"shide\" (zigzagging paper streamers) used in Shinto rituals. \n\nThe streamers are usually white, although they can also be gold, silver, or a mixture of several colors, and are often attached as decorations to straw ropes (\"shimenawa\") used to mark sacred precincts.\n\nThe shrine priest or maiden attendants (\"miko\") use the \"gohei\" to bless or sanctify a person or object in various Shinto rituals. The \"gohei\" is used for some ceremonies, but its usual purpose is to cleanse a sacred place in temples and to cleanse, bless, or exorcise any object that is thought to have negative energy. In addition to its use in purification rituals, it may be included in an \"Ōnusa\" (wooden wand with many \"shide\"), and serve as the object of veneration (\"shintai\") in a Shinto shrine.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "528716", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=528716", "title": "Index of Buddhism-related articles", "text": "Index of Buddhism-related articles\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "39613669", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39613669", "title": "Jinzha", "text": "Jinzha\n\nJinzha() is a figure in Chinese mythology, appearing in works such as \"Investiture of the Gods\". A disciple of the \"superiorman\" Wenshu Guangfa Tianzun, he is the eldest brother of Nezha and elder brother of Muzha.\n\nJinzha was born to General Li Jing. The eldest brother of Nezha and the elder brother of Muzha, Jinzha has been a disciple of Manjusri Bodhisattva for \"many years\", who was previously Broad Altruist, or Wenshu Guangfa Tianzun.\n"}
{"id": "4521667", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4521667", "title": "Kapu (caste)", "text": "Kapu (caste)\n\nKapu refers to a social grouping of agriculturists found primarily in the southern Indian states of Andhra Pradesh and Telangana (the Telugu-speaking states). Kapus are primarily an agrarian community, forming a heterogeneous peasant caste.\n\nThey are classified as a Forward Caste in Andhra Pradesh, where they are the dominant community in the districts of East Godavari and West Godavari.\n\nThe Kapu community in the Telugu states is predominantly concentrated in the coastal districts, North Telangana and Rayalaseema regions. They are also found in large numbers in Tamil Nadu, Karnataka, Kerala, Maharashtra, Chhattisgarh, Orissa and some other Indian states, as well as in Sri Lanka.\n\n\"Kāpu\" literally means cultivator or agriculturist in Telugu. Various subgroups of \"kapus\" branched off into separate communities in the post-Kakatiya period (Velamas, Panta Kapus and Pakanati Kapus—both of whom got labelled Reddys, and Kapus of Kammanadu—eventually labelled Kammas). The remaining \"kapus\" continue to use the original label. All the cultivator caste clusters have a common ancestry in the legends. According to Cynthia Talbot, the transformation of occupational identities as caste labels occurred in the late Vijayanagara period (17th century) or later.\n\nThe Kapu are considered to be a Shudra community in the traditional Hindu ritual ranking system known as varna.\n\nThe Kapu have been described by Srinivasulu as a \"dominant peasant caste in coastal Andhra\", with the Telaga listed as \"a backward peasant caste\" and the Balija as a peasant caste who hold Lingayat beliefs. Srinisavulu has analysed the 1921 census of India to cause alignment with the present-day state and classification system, from which he concludes that Kapus (including Reddys) amounted to around 17 percent of the state's then population and were regarded as a Forward caste, whilst the Balija and Telaga were regarded as Backward castes, comprising 3 percent and 5 percent of the 1921 population, respectively.\n\nSrinivasulu notes that the Reddys and Kammas are the politically dominant communities of Andhra Pradesh and Telangana, and that the Kapus are among a group with lesser but still significant influence, despite their small population. They are particularly effective in the districts of East Godavari and West Godavari, although Srinivasulu notes that \"The Kapus of the coastal districts are distinct from the Munnur Kapus of Telangana. While the former are fairly prosperous, the political emergence of the latter, who are part of the OBC category, is a recent phenomenon.\"\n\nThe official government classifications rarely distinguished between the Kapu sub-castes. All Kapus were classified as forming a backward caste in 1915 by the British government of the Madras Presidency, which remained in force even after the formation of Andhra Pradesh until 1956. In that year, the government of Andhra Pradesh removed Kapus from the list of backward castes. Even though various governments have since made efforts to include them again, the efforts have not been successful. In 1968, the Anantha Raman Commission set up by the Andhra Pradesh government recognised Munnuru Kapus and Turpu Kapus as backward classes, but not the Kapus as a whole. The Mandal Commission set up by the Government of India in the 1980s recommended that Kapus be included among the Other Backward Classes (OBC). But the state governments were entrusted with finalising the list of castes for the OBC category. The state commission headed by N. K. Muralidhar Rao did not recommend any change to the status of the other Kapu castes.\n\nIn early 2016, the Kapus of the modern Andhra Pradesh state launched an agitation demanding the OBC status, leading to violent protests. The Indian National Congress party and the YSR Congress party have supported their demand. The ruling Telugu Desam Party is said to be opposed to the demand.\n\n\nCitations\n\nBibliography\n\n"}
{"id": "2199923", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2199923", "title": "Karla Caves", "text": "Karla Caves\n\nThe Karla Caves, Karli Caves, Karle Caves or Karla Cells, are a complex of ancient Buddhist Indian rock-cut caves at Karli near Lonavala, Maharashtra. It is just 10.9 Kilometers away from Lonavala. The shrines were developed over the period – from the 2nd century BC to the 5th century AD. The oldest of the cave shrines is believed to date back to 160 BC, having arisen near a major ancient trade route, running eastward from the Arabian Sea into the Deccan. \n\nThe group at Karla is one of the older and smaller of the many rock-cut Buddhist sites in Maharashtra, but is one of the best-known because of the famous \"Grand Chaitya\" (Cave 8), which is \"the largest and most completely preserved\" chaitya hall of the period, as well as containing unusual quantities of fine sculpture, much of it on a large scale. \n\nMany traders and Satavahana rulers made grants for construction of these caves. Karli's location in Maharashtra places it in a region that marks the division between North India and South India. Buddhists, having become identified with commerce and manufacturing through their early association with traders, tended to locate their monastic establishments in natural geographic formations close to major trade routes so as to provide lodging houses for travelling traders. Today, the cave complex is a protected monument under the Archaeological Survey of India.\n\nThe caves were historically associated with the Mahāsāṃghika sect of Buddhism and later with Hinduism, which had great popularity in this region of India, as well as wealthy patronage. The caves house a Buddhist monastery dating back to the 2nd century BC. The monastery was once home to two 15-meter grand pillars outside the chaitya. Now only one of these remains, and the remaining space is occupied by a temple dedicated to the goddess Ekveera, who is worshipped most notably by the Koli community of Mumbai.\n\nThe Karla cave complex is built into a rocky hillside around from Pune, with large windows cut into the rock to light the cave interiors. The caves are among a large numbers of similar caves excavated in the Sahyadri Hills in the early 1st millennium CE. There are altogether 16 caves in the group, with 3 of them being Mahayana caves. Most of the caves are \"lenas\", with the major exception being the Great Chaitya, Cave No. 8.\n\nThe main cave, called the Great Chaitya cave, or Cave No.8, features a large, intricately carved chaitya, or prayer hall, dating back to 120 CE. This is the largest rock-cut chaitya in India, measuring long and up to high. The hall features sculptures of both males and females, as well as animals such as lions and elephants.\n\nThis Great Chaitya cave, the largest in South Asia, was constructed and dedicated in 120 CE by the Western Satraps ruler Nahapana.\n\n\nThe Great Chaitya cave of Karla follows, but improves upon, several other Chaitya caves which had been built in Western India under royal sponsorship. It is thought that the chronology of these early Chaitya Caves is as follows: first Cave 9 at Kondivite Caves, then Cave 12 at the Bhaja Caves and Cave 10 of Ajanta Caves, around the 1st century BCE. Then, in chronological order: Cave 3 at Pitalkhora, Cave 1 at Kondana Caves, Cave 9 at Ajanta, which, with its more ornate designs, may have been built about a century later, Cave 18 at Nasik Caves, and Cave 7 at Bedse Caves, to finally culminate with the \"final perfection\" of the Great Chaitya at Karla Caves.\n\nThe chaitya follows the usual pattern for the period, but is unusually large. It is exceptional for preserving original elements in wood: the prominent lateral ribs and other roof timbers, and the umbrella over the stupa. The chaitya hall only survives in rock-cut examples, but these replicate in stone the form of examples in wood and thatch. In most rock-cut chaityas, the roof timbers are replicated in stone, to considerable visual effect, but in others actual timber was used, for purely aesthetic rather than structural reasons. In most of these cases the timber has long decayed away, as for example in the chaitya at Cave 3, Kanheri Caves. Here, although some were replaced under Lord Curzon in the 19th century, most are original. \nR. C. Majumdar quoting James Fergusson explains:\n\nAn important inscription relates to Nahapana in the Great Chaitya (Valukura is thought to be an ancient name for Karla Caves):\n\nThere are also inscriptions by private donors, who contributed parts of the Great Chaitya, including self-described Yavana (Asiatic Greek or Indo-Greek) donors, who donated six of the pillars, although their names are Buddhist names. They account for nearly half of the known dedicatory inscriptions on the pillars of the Chaitya.\n\n\nThe city of Dhenukakata is thought to be Danahu near the city of Karli. It is said by another donor in another inscription that it has a \"vaniya-gama\" (A community of merchants).\n\nThe Yavanas are also known for their donation of a complete cave at the Nasik caves (cave No.17), and for their donations with inscriptions at the Junnar caves.\n\nInside the Great Chaitya, facing the inscription of Nahapana and posterior to it by a generation, there is also an inscription by Satavahana ruler Sri Pulumayi, that is, Vasishthiputra Pulumavi (130-159 CE):\nWithin the complex are a great many other carved chaityas, as well as viharas, or dwelling places for the caves' monks. A notable feature of these caves is their arched entrances and vaulted interiors. Names of donors are inscribed on pillars in Brahmi script in these caves. The outside facade has intricate details carved into it in an imitation of finished wood. The central motif is a large horseshoe arch. There is an Ashokan pillar at the front, with a closed stone facade and torana in between.\n\nOne of the Vihara cells bears an inscription of the Satavahana ruler Vasishthiputra Pulumavi (130-159 CE).\n\nSeveral Chaitya Caves were built in imitation of the Great Chaitya at Karla. This is especially the case of the Great Chaitya at Kanheri, in the northern suburb in Mumbai, probably built during the reign of Yajna Sri Satakarni (circa 150 CE). According to Fergusson, it is certain that the plan of the Chaitya Cave at Kanheri is a literal copy of that at Karle, but the architectural details show exactly the same difference in style as is found between Cave 17 (period of Nahapana circa 115 CE) and Cave 3 (period of Sri Pulumavi, circa 170 CE) at the Nasik caves.\n\nSome caves at Ajanta, such as Cave 19, built in the 5th century CE, were also modeled after the Karla Great Chaitya.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4136738", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4136738", "title": "Karram-Allah-u Wajhahu", "text": "Karram-Allah-u Wajhahu\n\nKarram-Allah-u Wajhah (; ) is almost solely used to honor Ali as the only early Muslim who never knelt down to an idol following his guardian and teacher Muhammad in Jahilyah. This honorific is mostly used by some Sunnis and is acceptable to Shi'a. However, Shi'a prefer using 'Alayh-es-Salam or \"Peace be upon him.\"\n"}
{"id": "38504713", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38504713", "title": "Kees Versteegh", "text": "Kees Versteegh\n\nCornelis Henricus Maria Versteegh, better known as Kees Versteegh (; 1947-present), is a Dutch linguist and Arabist. He served as a professor of Islamic studies and the Arabic language at Radboud University Nijmegen in the Netherlands until April 2011.\n\nVersteegh graduated from Radboud University in 1977, the subject of his doctoral dissertation having been the influence of Greek on Arabic. He was a lecturer in the Department of Middle Eastern Studies until 1987, when he took a position at the Netherlands Institute in Cairo for two years. Versteegh returned to Radboud in 1989, and in 2011 he became professor emeritus. Versteegh's research and views on the Arabic language and its evolution have been described as groundbreaking.\n\n"}
{"id": "18994388", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18994388", "title": "Kesik Minare", "text": "Kesik Minare\n\nThe Kesik Minare Cami (Broken Minaret Mosque), Korkut Cami or Cumanın Cami standing in the streets of Kaleiçi (Old Antalya) in southern Turkey, was originally built as a Roman temple in the 2nd century AD. In the 7th century, it was converted into a Byzantine church in honor of the Virgin Mary, but it was heavily damaged in the 7th century during the Arab invasions. In the 9th century it was repaired again. The church was converted into a mosque when the Sultanate of Rum acquired Antalya in the early 13th century, which was when the actual minaret was added. In 1361, when the crusader king of Cyprus took Antalya from the Seljuks, it became a church again, only to become reconverted into a mosque during the rule of Sehzade Korkut. The main building was destroyed in a fire of th. 1800, but the minaret survived as the Kesik Minare.\n"}
{"id": "8626598", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8626598", "title": "Kushti", "text": "Kushti\n\nKushti ( also: Kusti, Koshti) is the sacred girdle worn by Zoroastrians around their waists. Along with the \"Sedreh\", the \"Kushti\" is part of the ritual dress of the Zoroastrians.\n\nThe \"Kushti\" is worn wound three times around the waist. It is tied twice in a double knot in the front and back, the ends of the \"Kushti\" hanging on the back. The \"Kushti\" is made of 72 fine, white and woolen threads, which represent the 72 chapters of the \"Yasna\", the primary liturgical collection of texts of the \"Avesta\".\n\nThe ritual of untying and tying the \"Kushti\" is performed several times a day and is called \"Nirang-i Kushti\". During this ritual, the individual must remain standing in one spot, and may not speak to anyone. If the individual speaks, the ritual must be recommenced. \n\n\n"}
{"id": "750525", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=750525", "title": "Latin Patriarchate of Antioch", "text": "Latin Patriarchate of Antioch\n\nThe Latin Patriarch of Antioch was a religious office of the Latin Church of the Catholic Church created in 1098 by Bohemond, founder of the Principality of Antioch, one of the crusader states.\n\nThe jurisdiction of the Latin patriarchs in Antioch extended over the three feudal principalities of Antioch, Edessa, and Tripolis. Towards the end of the twelfth century the island of Cyprus was added. In practice they were far more dependent upon the popes than their predecessors, the Greek patriarchs. After the fall of Antioch (1268) the popes still appointed patriarchs, who, however, were unable to take possession of the see. Since the middle of the fourteenth century they were only titular dignitaries. The title of Latin Patriarch of Antioch was conferred until the early 1950s; but the recipient resided in Rome and was a member of the chapter of the basilica of St. Mary Major. The Basilica of St. Mary Major was the Antioch patriarchium, or papal major basilicas assigned to the Patriarch of Antioch to officiated if they came to Rome, near which they dwelt.\n\nThe seat of the Patriarch of Antioch was one of the oldest and most prestigious in Christendom. At one time it was the principal city of Syria; the third largest city of the Roman Empire, after Rome and Alexandria. When the Great Schism took place in 1054, the four Greek Patriarchs of Antioch, Jerusalem, Constantinople and Alexandria \"formed\" the Eastern Orthodox Church, while the Pope of Rome \"formed\" the Roman Catholic Church. (\"formed\" is used in quotations because neither side started anything new after the schism and both continued unaltered and the same as they did pre-schism - the Western Church being under the jurisdiction of Rome, and the Greek Church under the jurisdiction of Constantinople.)\n\nAfter 1054, the See of Antioch came under the influence of the Byzantine Empire. As part of his grand strategy, the Byzantine Emperor Alexios I Komnenos sought to utilize the military elan and prowess of the Frankish and European princes of the First Crusade in recovering for him the Eastern Roman Empire, including Antioch and its See.\n\nHowever, after the Siege of Antioch in 1098, Bohemond refused to submit Antioch to Byzantine rule and set himself up as Prince of Antioch.\n\nThe crusaders reinstated at first the Greek patriarch, then John IV as long as the Orthodox patriarch remained there they tried to make him a Catholic instead of appointing a rival. However, when at last he fled to Constantinople they considered the see vacant. Thereupon the Latin Christians elected (1100) a patriarch of their own, an ecclesiastic by the name of Bernard who had come to the Orient with the crusaders. From that time Antioch had its Latin patriarchs until the last incumbent Christian was put to death by the Sultan Baibars during the conquest of the city in 1268. The Greeks also continued to choose their patriarchs of Antioch, but these lived generally in Constantinople.\n\nThe Byzantine Empire was greatly offended by this and tried to re-establish either a Greek patriarchate or a joint patriarchate. Though the Treaty of Devol in 1108 nominally restored a Greek patriarch, the treaty was never enforced. Under Manuel I Komnenos there was briefly a joint patriarchate when Antioch fell under Byzantine control, but for the most part there was only a Latin patriarch. The Byzantine Empire recognized this de facto control of the See of Antioch and the Latin Patriarch soon played a key role in solidifying ties between the Crusader states and the Byzantine Empire. This represented one of the sole instances of coordinated action by Byzantine and the Franks throughout the crusader period, and led to a number of joint political, diplomatic, military, and marriage alliances. The Latin Patriarch of Antioch was established to serve the Catholic members of the diocese and represent all Christians living in its territory and was one of the major ecclesiastical authorities in the Crusader states. Throughout the Crusader period both Greeks and Latins served under its hierarchy which included numerous suffragan bishops, abbots, cathedrals, monasteries, and churches under its ecclesiastical rule. Damascus quickly grew in dominance, eclipsing Antioch, and the Greek Patriarchate's seat was transferred there in 1342.\n\nBoth Latin and Greek Patriarchs continued to be appointed by the Pope and the Byzantine Emperor respectively during the following centuries. However, the Latin Patriarch was a titular office, with its seat at the Basilica di Santa Maria Maggiore in Rome. It continued to play a role in helping to protect various isolated Christian communities in the Near East and eventually secured their unity with Rome. The last holder of this office was Roberto Vicentini, who died without a successor in 1953. The post itself was abolished in 1964.\n\n\n\n\n\"This patriarchate was officially abolished in 1964.\"\n\n\n"}
{"id": "929844", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=929844", "title": "Leo Baeck", "text": "Leo Baeck\n\nLeo Baeck (23 May 1873 – 2 November 1956) was a 20th-century German rabbi, scholar and theologian. He served as leader of Liberal Judaism in his native country and internationally, and later represented all German Jews during the Nazi era. After the war, he settled in London, UK, where he served as the chairman of the World Union for Progressive Judaism.\nBaeck was born in Lissa (Leszno) (then in the German Province of Posen, now in Poland), the son of Rabbi Samuel Baeck, and began his education at the Jewish Theological Seminary of Breslau in 1894. He also studied philosophy in Berlin with Wilhelm Dilthey, served as a rabbi in Oppeln, Düsseldorf, and Berlin, and taught at the Hochschule für die Wissenschaft des Judentums (Higher Institute for Jewish Studies). In 1905 Baeck published \"The Essence of Judaism\", in response to Adolf von Harnack's \"What is Christianity?\". This book, which interpreted and valorized Judaism through a prism of Neo-Kantianism tempered with religious existentialism, made him a famous proponent for the Jewish people and their faith. During World War I, Baeck was a chaplain in the German Imperial Army.\n\nIn 1933, after the Nazis took power, Baeck worked to defend the Jewish community as president of the Reichsvertretung der Deutschen Juden, an umbrella organization that united German Jewry from 1933 to 1938. After the Reichsvertretung was disbanded during the November Pogrom, the Nazis reassembled the council's members under the government controlled Reichsvereinigung. Leo Baeck headed this organization as its president until his deportation. On 27 January 1943, he was deported to the Theresienstadt concentration camp.\n\nLeo Baeck became the \"honorary head\" of the Council of Elders (Judenrat) in Theresienstadt. As such, he was protected from transports and with his protection list, could also save his relatives from transports, among others his grand-niece Ruth (b. 1925). Moreover, Baeck became \"prominent\", which meant that he had better accommodation, better food and could receive mail more often.\n\nHannah Arendt in her book \"Eichmann in Jerusalem\" examined Jewish cooperation with the Nazi authorities during the Holocaust, and names Baeck as one of those functionaries who withheld the truth from their communities of the end awaiting them, believing it more 'humane' to bear the secret since \"living in the expectation of death by gassing would only be the harder'. Baeck, according to Arendt, also thought the existence of a Jewish police force within the camps would render the 'ordeal easier' whereas in her view they turned out to be more brutal.\n\nHe gave lectures, was active in the interfaith dialogue between traditional Jews and Christians of Jewish origin, worked in the youth care sector, which he directed from November 1944 on, and was friendly with many of the functionaries. After liberation, he headed the Council of Elders; the last Elder of the Jews was the Czech communist Jiří Vogel. Baeck's lectures were credited with helping prisoners survive their confinement. Heinrich F. Liebrecht said Baeck's lectures helped him to discover wellsprings of strength and the conviction that his life had a purpose. \"From here came the impulse to really endure, and the belief that we were able to do so.\"\n\nUp until his deportation, numerous American institutions offered to help him escape the war and immigrate to the United States. Leo Baeck refused to abandon his community and declined the offers. Nevertheless, he managed to survive the Holocaust, though three of his sisters perished in the ghetto.\n\nAfter the war, Baeck relocated to London, where he accepted the Presidency of the North Western Reform Synagogue in Temple Fortune. He taught at Hebrew Union College in the United States, and eventually became Chairman of the World Union for Progressive Judaism. It was during this time he published his second major work, \"This People Israel\", which he partially penned during his imprisonment by the Nazis. His increased interfaith work also meant that he revised and, to an extent, reclaimed for Judaism, the founding figures of Christianity, Jesus and Paul.\n\nHe died on 2 November 1956, in London, England.\n\nIn 1955, the Leo Baeck Institute for the study of the history and culture of German-speaking Jewry was established, and Baeck was the first international president of this institute. The asteroid 100047 Leobaeck is named in his honour, as is Leo Baeck College, the Reform/Progressive rabbinical college in London. The Institute now includes branches around the world including the Leo Baeck Institute, New York, and the Leo Baeck Institute, London. There are institutions named after Leo Baeck, on every inhabited continent, including the Leo Baeck Centre for Progressive Judaism, in Melbourne, Australia.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4369933", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4369933", "title": "Leo Castelli", "text": "Leo Castelli\n\nLeo Castelli (born Leo Krausz; September 4, 1907 – August 21, 1999) was an Italian-American art dealer. His gallery showcased contemporary art for five decades. Among the movements which Castelli showed were Surrealism, Abstract Expressionism, Neo-Dada, Pop Art, Op Art, Color field painting, Hard-edge painting, Lyrical Abstraction, Minimal Art, Conceptual Art, and Neo-expressionism.\n\nLeo Castelli was born Leo Krausz, in Trieste, Austria-Hungary, the second of three children of Italian and Austro-Hungarian Jewish origin. His father was Ernest Krauss, a Hungarian by birth, who had gone to Trieste as a young man and married wealthy heiress Bianca Castelli, from a family of coffee importers which had long been based there. After World War I, which the family spent in Vienna (where Leo Castelli learned perfect German), they returned to Trieste. The family changed its name to \"Krausz-Castelli\" and then \"Castelli\" in the mid-1930s, when Mussolini's government required names to be Italianized.\n\nAfter earning a law degree at the University of Milan in 1924, Castelli returned to Trieste, where his father had secured a job for him with an insurance company. In 1932, he went to work for an insurance company in Bucharest, where he married Ileana Schapira one year later. After their marriage, the couple honeymooned in Vienna and bought their first artwork, a Matisse watercolor.\n\nCastelli's father-in-law, Mihai Schapira, helped him to be transferred in 1935 to the Banca d'Italia in Paris. There, Ileana's taste and money helped him start his first gallery at Place Vendôme in Paris, which was named for its co-director, the decorator René Drouin, and situated between the Ritz Hotel and the couturier Elsa Schiaparelli. Specializing in surrealistic art, the gallery opened in July 1939, with a show of modern and antique furniture, including commissioned pieces by Drouin, Max Ernst, Meret Oppenheim, Leonor Fini (a former girlfriend of Castelli's from Trieste), Eugene Berman, and other artists in the force field of Surrealism.\n\nIleana's connections enabled the couple to flee to America at the start of World War II. Castelli's parents did not escape but died in Budapest, hounded by members of Hungary's fascist Arrow Cross Party. The couple would remain married for more than 25 years, and were friends and partners even after their divorce, when Ileana married Michael Sonnabend and that couple opened its own gallery. Castelli arrived in the United States in 1941, by way of Marrakesh, Tangier, Algeciras, Vigo and Havana. He took graduate history courses in economic history at Columbia University until volunteering for the Army, serving in the intelligence service in Europe. After the liberation of France, he was sent to Bucharest as an interpreter for the Allied commission that controlled the city. As a result of Castelli's military service, he was given American citizenship. Returning to New York, Castelli took a managerial position with his father-in-law's clothing factory.\n\nIn New York, the Castellis were two of only three non-artist members (the other was dealer Charles Egan) of the Club, an influential coterie founded in 1949 that included Willem de Kooning, Robert Rauschenberg, Franz Kline, and Ad Reinhardt. Castelli's first exercise as a private dealer came through Drouin, in 1947: some hundred canvases by Kandinsky, consigned by his widow, Nina. His first American curatorial effort was the Ninth Street Show of 1951, a seminal event in the emergence of Abstract Expressionism. He soon attached himself to the pioneering gallerist Sidney Janis, one of the early proponents of the school. In 1957, he opened the Leo Castelli Gallery in a townhouse at 4 E. 77th Street between Madison and Fifth Avenues in New York City. From the mid-1960s through the 1970s, the gallery was perhaps the most prominent commercial venue for art in the world. Initially the gallery showcased European Surrealism, Wassily Kandinsky, and other European artists. However the gallery also exhibited American Abstract Expressionism. Jackson Pollock, Willem de Kooning, Cy Twombly, Friedel Dzubas, and Norman Bluhm were some artists who were included in group shows.\n\nIn 1958, Robert Rauschenberg and Jasper Johns joined the gallery, signaling a turning away from Abstract Expressionism, towards Pop Art, Minimalism and Conceptual Art. From the early 1960s through the late 70s, Frank Stella, Larry Poons, Lee Bontecou, James Rosenquist, Roy Lichtenstein, Andy Warhol, Robert Morris, Donald Judd, Dan Flavin, Cy Twombly, Ronald Davis, Ed Ruscha, Salvatore Scarpitta, Richard Serra, Bruce Nauman, Lawrence Weiner and Joseph Kosuth joined the stable of Castelli artists. He gave Johns, Stella and Lichtenstein their first one-man shows. Castelli opened a temporary annex, the Castelli Warehouse, on West 108th Street, with a show organized by Robert Morris, of environmental sculpture by nine artists, including Nauman, Serra, and Eva Hesse. In 1971 Leo Castelli opened a downtown SoHo branch of the Leo Castelli Gallery at 420 West Broadway, in a building bought by the Hague Art Delivery Company and a cooperative of dealers: Castelli took the second floor; his former wife's Sonnabend Gallery the took the third floor, and André Emmerich (later replaced by Charles Cowles) took the top floor; while John Weber, (former director of the Dwan Gallery) rented his gallery on the fourth floor. In the 1980s, Castelli opened a second larger downtown exhibition space at a 142 Greene Street also in SoHo. He later mounted joint shows with Mary Boone, of Julian Schnabel, in 1981, and David Salle, in 1982.\n\nCastelli also pioneered a stipend system that was unknown in New York when he opened his gallery. He put his artists on a payroll whether or not their work sold. For this and other reasons, desertions were initially rare among his artists. When Castelli discovered Serra in 1967, for example, he offered him a guarantee of three years of monthly payments even though he did not expect to sell any of the unknown sculptor's lead-plate work in that time. Castelli also was known for spotting new talent and insisting on European exposure for his American artists, leading to Rauschenberg in 1964 becoming the first American to win the Venice Biennale's international grand prize in painting. His most important clients included Peter Ludwig and Giuseppe Panza.\n\nCastelli's second wife, Antoinette Fraissex du Bost, opened Castelli Graphics, an art gallery devoted to the prints and photographs of Castelli Gallery and other artists. The couple also had a son together, Jean-Christophe Castelli, but Antoinette Castelli died in 1987. In 1995 Leo Castelli married the Italian art historian Barbara Bertozzi Castelli.\n\nIn 2015, Bertozzi Castelli opened a one-room satellite gallery at 1046 Madison Avenue, near 80th Street, with Robert Morris's installation \"Lead and Felt\" (1969).\n\nCastelli received the rosette of the French Legion of Honor, allegedly in exchange for donating works by Johns to the Centre Pompidou. The mayor of Trieste made him the honorary director of the Revoltella Museum. In 1998, the National Arts Club awarded Castelli its Centennial Medal of Honor. On this occasion, Dennis Hopper called Castelli \"the godfather of the contemporary art world.\"\n\nIn 1982 a traveling exhibit honoring the 25th anniversary of Castelli Gallery visited the La Jolla Museum of Contemporary Art. The Museum of Art, Fort Lauderdale, showed \"Three Decades of Exploration: Homage to Leo Castelli\", an exhibit of more than 30 works by artists discovered, shown and encouraged by Castelli in 1987. That same year, the Butler Institute of American Art presented \"Leo Castelli: a tribute exhibition\". In 1996, Gagosian Gallery mounted the exhibition \"Leo Castelli: An Exhibition in Honor of His Gallery and Artists\" in Beverly Hills.\n\nMany artists have enshrined Castelli in their works. Elaine de Kooning and Richard Artschwager painted his portrait, Warhol made a silkscreen of him in a jacket and tie. Frank Stella named a work after him, in 1992 he posed for the French artist Klaus Guingand who immortalized his shadow, and a sculpture by Robert Morris, \"Leo\", places a brain at the center of a target. In 1999, on the occasion of Castelli's death, \"Time\" published a eulogy by James Rosenquist.\n\nIn 1988, when there were no tax deductions for gifts to museums, Castelli gave one of the icons of postwar American art, Robert Rauschenberg's \"Bed\" (1955) to the Museum of Modern Art. In 1992, amid rumors that Castelli was negotiating to sell his archives to the Getty Center in Los Angeles, his collection was said to be worth some $2 million. In October 2007, Castelli's heirs – his widow, Barbara Bertozzi Castelli, and his two children, Jean-Christopher Castelli and Nina Castelli Sundell – announced the donation of the gallery's archives from 1957 through 1999 to the Smithsonian Institution's Archives of American Art. Castelli had been interviewed for the archive's oral-history project in 1969, 1973 and 1997.\n\nThe Leo Castelli Gallery continues to operate at 18 East 77th Street in New York under the direction of his wife showing many of the same artists from the gallery's past. The Leo Award, presented annually by the Independent Curators International (ICI), is named after the late Castelli.\n\n"}
{"id": "12686483", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12686483", "title": "List of Catholic dioceses in Cuba", "text": "List of Catholic dioceses in Cuba\n\nThe Roman Catholic Church in Cuba comprises three ecclesiastical provinces each headed by an archbishop. The provinces are in turn subdivided into 9 dioceses and 3 archdiocese each headed by a bishop or an archbishop.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "50247695", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50247695", "title": "List of Catholic newspapers and magazines in the United States", "text": "List of Catholic newspapers and magazines in the United States\n\nThis article is a list of Catholic newspapers and magazines in the United States.\n\nFor the frequency listings, the terminology will be as follows\n\nThe following is a list containing the official newspaper, newsletter, magazine or other publication of the dioceses of the United States, organized alphabetically by state followed by diocese:\n"}
{"id": "31389257", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31389257", "title": "List of Mormon family organizations", "text": "List of Mormon family organizations\n\nMormon family organizations (\"i.e.\", family organizations or associations) are entities created by members of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints (LDS Church) to accomplish the basic purposes of family life as understood within the church, in order to establish and strengthen family unity and identity across multiple generations.\n\nAs the basic unit of society, the family is also the fundamental organization within the LDS Church. LDS Church members tend to be very family-oriented, and have strong connections across generations and with extended family, often through regular family reunions. For LDS Church members a knowledge and appreciation of one's lineage and heritage is closely connected to the sacred ordinances conducted in LDS temples.\n\nIn its most general sense, the term \"family organization\" as used within the church refers to the fundamental concept of eternal family structure encompassed by the Plan of Salvation. More specifically, \"family organization\" refers to organizations created to provide structure and direction in meeting immediate and long-term family objectives and purposes. In connection therewith, LDS Church leaders have regularly taught the importance of establishing and supporting family organizations.\n\nDuring the 20th century as part of the church's semi-annual General Conferences, a \"Priesthood Genealogy Seminar\" was conducted by LDS Church leaders in which the importance of family organizations was frequently emphasized. \"[E]stablishing and maintaining family organizations for the immediate and extended family\" has been expressly listed as an appropriate way to observe the importance of the Sabbath day in General Conference addresses and other church publications.\n\nIn 1978 the church asked all families to organize themselves at three levels: as \"immediate\" families, \"grandparent,\" and \"ancestral.\" Individual or immediate families are regularly encouraged to hold weekly Family Home Evening and participate in family councils. More formal family organizations consist of the descendants of a common ancestor. The purposes of such family organizations may include coordinating family efforts in promoting welfare, education, conducting family history research, holding reunions, compiling family newsletters and publications, and other family-related LDS practices. Commemorating family heritage and legacy is another typical purpose and activity for family organizations. In September 2016, LDS Ancestral Families Association (LDSAFA) was established as a \"free registration, publication and support consortium for LDS Ancestral Family Organizations (AFOs).\" \n\nFormally constituted family organizations figure prominently among descendants of some Mormon pioneers and other early converts to the LDS Church. The longevity of and degree of organization found among many Mormon ancestral family organizations is noteworthy. For example, the Jared Pratt Family Organization was founded in 1881, making it one of the oldest family organizations in the United States in continuous existence.\n\nIn 1971 the Internal Revenue Service of the United States issued a Revenue Ruling determining that non-profit family organizations that are expressly \"formed to compile genealogical research data on its family members in order to perform religious ordinances in accordance with the precepts of the religious denomination to which family members belong\" are exempt under Section 501(c)(3).\n\nGiven their extensive documentation of lineages connecting many thousands of living individuals to a single common ancestor, their relatively larger extended family size (attributable in part to the early Mormon practice of plural marriage), relatively larger immediate family size, religious emphasis on \"clean\" or healthy living, and relative longevity, the genealogical data maintained by many Mormon ancestral family organizations have also been instrumental in medical research of genetic disorders. The University of Utah has made unique contributions to the study of genetics due in part to long-term genealogy efforts of the LDS Church, which has allowed researchers to trace genetic disorders through several generations. The relative homogeneity of Utah's population also makes it an ideal laboratory for studies of population genetics. The university is home to the Genetic Science Learning Center, a resource which educates the public about genetics through its website.\n\nThere are several large Mormon ancestral family organizations, notable for their longevity, quality or degree of organization, or connection to well-known deceased or currently living persons. A non-exhaustive list appears below.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "54682691", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54682691", "title": "Lumen Monteiro", "text": "Lumen Monteiro\n\nBishop Lumen Monteiro, C.S.C. is the serving bishop of the Roman Catholic Diocese of Agartala.\n\nHe was born on 1 Feb 1952 in Calangute, Goa, India. \n\nHe was Ordained a Priest on 28 Oct 1980 in the Congregation of Holy Cross. \n\nHe was Appointed Bishop of Agartala on 11 Jan 1996 and Ordained on 26 May 1996. He Chairs the North Eastern Diocesan Social Forum and as a representative of the Conference of Catholic Bishops of India (Latin rite) on the Governing Body of Caritas India.\n\n"}
{"id": "49379171", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49379171", "title": "Mankoo", "text": "Mankoo\n\nThe Mankoo is a upper caste ramgarhia surname . These people originate Punjab, India. The Ramgarhia is a community majorly in the Punjab region of northwestern India\n"}
{"id": "23120325", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23120325", "title": "Pharnabazus III", "text": "Pharnabazus III\n\nPharnabazus III (in Greek Φαρνάβαζος; c. 370 BC - after 320 BC) was a Persian satrap who fought against Alexander the Great.\n\nPharnabazus was the son of Artabazus, satrap of Hellespontine Phrygia. However, Artabazus was exiled after a failed rebellion against Artaxerxes III in 358 BC. The family went into exile to Macedonia, where they met the young Alexander. With Artabazus and Pharnabazus was Memnon of Rhodes, a Greek mercenary and relative by marriage. \n\nArtabazus, Pharnabazus and Memnon were later allowed to return to Persia, where Memnon took command of the Persian navy in the Aegean with Pharnabazus in support.\n\nWhen Alexander invaded the Persian empire, Memnon defended the strategically important town of Halicarnassus, which Alexander was then diverted to capture, forcing him to seek reinforcements. This allowed the Persians time to regroup.\n\nMemnon and Pharnabazus then directed their strategy to disrupt Alexander's supply lines by taking Aegean islands near the Hellespont and by fomenting rebellion in southern Greece. At around the same time, the Spartan king Agis III and the Athenian statesman Demosthenes organised forces to liberate their cities from the Macedonians. Memnon and Pharnabazus took Cos and Chios, but during the siege of Mytilene, the capital of Lesbos, Memnon died of a fever. \n\nPharnabazus took control of the Persian forces in the Aegean, assisted by Autophradates. They captured Mytilene and the isle of Tenedos, which gave him control over the Hellespont.\n\nPharnabazus further threatened Alexander's supplies by establishing a fortified position near Halicarnassus, which made the harbour inaccessible. He also took Samothrace, Siphnos and Andros and seized all Greek supply ships. \n\nHowever, after the Persian king Darius III lost the decisive Battle of Issus in November 333 BC, Pharnabazus became increasingly isolated. The Spartan king, Agis III, whilst still dispatching ten ships and thirty talents of silver withdrew from outright rebellion. Pharnabazus had to deal with rebellions in his conquered territory and many of his troops deserted him. His much reduced navy was defeated near Chios and Pharnabazus was captured. While being taken to Alexander, he managed to escape and went to Cos.\n\nWhat happened after his escape is not known. There is a gap in the records. It is assumed that he eventually submitted to Alexander, since in 324 BC, Artonis, the sister of Pharnabazus, was given in marriage to Eumenes by Alexander the Great; and in 321 BC we find Pharnabazus commanding a squadron of cavalry for Eumenes, in the battle in which he defeated Craterus and Neoptolemus.\n"}
{"id": "13240787", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13240787", "title": "Portrayals of God in popular media", "text": "Portrayals of God in popular media\n\nPortrayals of God in popular media have varied from a white-haired old man in \"Oh, God!\" to a woman in \"Dogma\", from an entirely off-screen character to a figure of fun. According to trinitarian Christianity, Jesus Christ is God, so cultural depictions of Jesus in film and television are also portrayals of God.\n\nIslam and Judaism both prohibit pictorial representations of God. However, television and Hollywood cinema emerged from a largely Christian tradition—that whilst it shared the prohibition on idolatry was more relaxed about religious iconography—and the many cultural depictions of God in that tradition that preceded the invention of television and cinema.\n\nWhilst even the humorous portrayals of God are rarely irreverent, portraying God is not without controversy. The animated television series \"God, the Devil and Bob\" portrayed God as being a beer-swilling, ex-hippie character who closely resembled The Grateful Dead guitarist Jerry Garcia, which raised objections from fundamentalist Christian groups in the United States, causing the show to be pulled from broadcasting in the United States after just 3 episodes (although the entire series was broadcast in the United Kingdom). \n\nOne of the last films that British activist Mary Whitehouse campaigned against was Irvine Welsh's \"The Granton Star Cause\", which portrayed God as drunken and abusive. Ironically, the campaign backfired, only serving the advertise the film more widely.\n\nThe role of God is a difficult one to play, and also a difficult one to cast. The casting of Alanis Morissette as God in \"Dogma\" was influenced by the singer's own public dialogue with her faith, as expressed in her songs. The casting of African American Morgan Freeman as God in \"Bruce Almighty\" took the movie stereotype of a \"black angel\" to a new level. On the subject of playing the role, Ella Shohat observes that God is a \"rare challenge\" for actors, raising the questions of how a method actor could possibly prepare for the part, and what possible personal feelings or experiences an actor could draw upon in order to portray a character that is omniscient, omnipotent, and the creator of the universe.\n\nGod has largely been cast as white and male, Freeman and Morrissette being exceptions to this, that line up alongside William Keighley's 1936 film \"The Green Pastures\", where all characters, including God, are played by African American actors (Rex Ingram in the case of what the movie calls \"De Lawd\"). The opening prologue of that film included what amounted to a disclaimer, to make the movie palatable to the white audiences in the United States of the time, asserting that:\nA similarly unusual piece of casting can be found in Lars von Trier's 1996 movie \"Breaking the Waves\", where God is both a woman and identical to the movie's (human) protagonist.\n\nWhilst in silent movies, the voice of God was simply an on-screen written caption, in the talkies, God's voice has presented a particular casting challenge, in biblical epics especially, since vocal intonation and accent carry with them implications of class, gender, and race. Although in both the Bible and the Qur'an God speaks, that voice is nowhere described. A filmmaker thus faces a choice about the voice to use, with no scriptural guidance to work from. This conflicts with the filmmaker's perceived task, in the case of biblical epics, of presenting scripture without interpretation or exegesis.\n\nIn biblical epics and similar movies, God's voice is generally cast to provide a sense of authority. It is deep, resonant, and masculine, and usually the American English of Southern California (sometimes with a touch of British English). One unique approach, used by the movie \"Switch\", was to have God as two voices, one male and one female, speaking simultaneously. Director John Huston provided the voice of God in his 1966 epic \"\".\n\nGod has in fact been portrayed in movies ever since the days of silent cinema, in biblical epics, experimental films, everyday dramas, and comedies. A cantankerous animated God instructs King Arthur and his knights with their mission in the 1975 comedy \"Monty Python and the Holy Grail\". Robert Mitchum portrayed a cigar-smoking, American, God in Frédéric Fonteyne's 1992 comedy \"Les Sept péchés capitaux\". A suicidal supreme being identified as \"God Killing Himself\" expires in an act of self-immolation in E. Elias Merhige's 1991 avant-garde feature \"Begotten\". In Carlos Diegues' 2003 movie \"Deus é Brasileiro\", God is a down-to-Earth character, exhausted from his labours, who is taking a rest in the north east of Brazil.\n\nGod as a character is often mentioned or intervenes in the plot of the CW show Supernatural. He seems as a loving, smart, serious, strategic, all-seeing, father, that observes events play out, but ignores them unless he absolutely needs to fix something \n\nOne new portrayal of God was in the television series \"Joan of Arcadia\". In that series, God is portrayed, in accordance with the programme's theme song (Joan Osborne's \"One of Us\"), as simply a proverbial \"stranger on a bus\". God is portrayed as taking on human form in a wide variety of shapes, from a piano tuner to a telephone repairman. Neuhaus characterizes this portrayal as an \"unknowable but visible God, who sees and is seen and is among us always, in all kinds of forms, participating in our everyday life but not interfering with humanity's free will, and who nonetheless calls us into service\". This portrayal was criticized in the first series for being ecumenical, almost to the point of being secular. The creator of the series, Barbara Hall, set out how God would be portrayed in some directives to the series' writers, named the \"Ten Commandments of \"Joan of Arcadia\"\".\nThus, in the words of Amber Tamblyn, \"Joan of Arcadia\" is \"not religious, we're philosophical\". Neuhaus deduces that this portrayal of God was in part motivated by the fact that \"Joan of Arcadia\" is a television show, a product, that has to appeal to a broad a range of viewers. Thus God, as portrayed in the show, does not call for proselytisation. Similarly, the portrayal of God is prepared to poke fun at Christian doctrine. Further, \"Joan of Arcadia\"'s God spurns the supernatural.\n\nA more oblique portrayal of God occurs in the television series \"Wonderfalls\", where God appears not as a person, but as a series of inanimate objects, that lead the protagonist of the series to perform good works in other people's lives. The word \"God\" is never mentioned in the show in relation to these encounters.\n\nSome portrayals of God are entirely off-screen. For example: The God who gives the stone tablets to Moses in \"The Ten Commandments\" is, in the words of Paul Schrader's commentary to the film, \"off-screen to the right\". Such biblical epics have less trouble with this obliquity than non-biblical works. This because whilst there is no visual representation of God himself in the source text that such movies are based upon, there \"are\" visually representable elements that can be used, from burning bushes to clouds and fire, in the manifestations of God. So whilst biblical epics are constrained by their source text to aniconism, they are not denied spectacle.\n"}
{"id": "5609345", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5609345", "title": "Prohairesis", "text": "Prohairesis\n\nProhairesis (; variously translated as \"moral character\", \"will\", \"volition\", \"choice\", \"intention\", or \"moral choice\") is a fundamental concept in the Stoic philosophy of Epictetus. It represents the choice involved in giving or withholding assent to impressions (phantasiai). The use of this Greek word was first introduced into philosophy by Aristotle in the \"Nicomachean Ethics\". To Epictetus, it is the faculty that distinguishes human beings from all other creatures. The concept of prohairesis plays a cardinal role in the \"Discourses\" and in the \"Manual\": the terms \"prohairesis\", \"prohairetic\", and \"aprohairetic\" appear some 168 times.\n\nAccording to Epictetus, nothing is properly considered either good, or bad, aside from those things that are within our own power to control, and the only thing fully in our power to control is our own volition (prohairesis) which exercises the faculty of choice that we use to judge our impressions. For example, if a person says something critical to us, that is not bad; or, if something complimentary is said, that is not good, because such things are externals and not in our power to control. By exerting the power of choice, it is possible to maintain equanimity in the face of either criticism and praise, which is a moral good. On the other hand, when people become troubled by criticism, or elated by praise, that is a moral evil because they have misjudged impressions by thinking that things not in their power (such as criticism or praise) have value, and by doing that they place a measure of control of their own life in the hands of others. \n\nThe importance of prohairesis for Epictetus is that it exerts a power that allows people to choose how they will react to impressions rationally:\n\nRemember that what is insulting is not the person who abuses or hits you, but the judgment that these things are insulting. So when someone irritates you, realize that it is your own opinion that has irritated you. Try, therefore, in the first place, not to be carried away by the impression; for if you once gain time and respite, you will find it easier to control yourself. \n\nBy exerting their prohairesis (will, volition, or choice), people can choose rationally how to react to impressions. Prohairesis is the faculty that distinguishes human beings from all other creatures. Epictetus defines it as:\n"}
{"id": "47911112", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47911112", "title": "Ramesh Puri Maharaj", "text": "Ramesh Puri Maharaj\n\nRamesh Puri Maharaj (or \"Ramesh Baba\") (born 1960, Patne, Maharashtra state) is an Indian sant. He was born on Vat Savitri Purnima day (the full moon day in the festival to the goddess Savitri).\n\nRamesh Puri is a devotee of the divinities \"Bhagwaan Mahadeva\" (the god Shiva in his dancing pose); \"Kartikeya\" (son of Shiva); \"Dattatreya\" (the reincarnation of a trinity of Hindu gods); and \"Gadhad Nath\". He belongs to the Niranjani \"akhada\" (monastery) which honours these divinities.\n\nThe monastery built the \"Shri Kshetra Rameshwar Shivalay Anand Ashram\" (roughly, the Holy Pilgrims' Rameshwar Shivalay Anand Retreat) which is devoted to Kartikeya and Dattatreya. It is large structure with 51 columns and a height of . The monastery also built the \"Samadhi temple of Swami Gadhad Nath Maharaj\" (roughly, the Consciousness temple of the Divine Lord Gadhad our teacher).\n\nRamesh Puri is the \"Prabhari\" (caretaker) of the Sarsaiya Ghat under the auspices of the Shivbndhu Services Committee. He also teaches the Mudra Chikitsha.\n\n"}
{"id": "706990", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=706990", "title": "Saved!", "text": "Saved!\n\nSaved! is a 2004 American teen comedy-drama film involving elements of religious satire. It was directed by Brian Dannelly and written by Dannelly and Michael Urban. It stars Jena Malone, Mandy Moore, Macaulay Culkin, Patrick Fugit, Eva Amurri, Martin Donovan, and Mary-Louise Parker. The film touches on the issues of religion, ostracism, homophobia, teen pregnancy, divorce, and disabilities.\n\nTeenager Mary Cummings (Jena Malone), who has \"been born again her whole life,\" is about to enter her senior year at American Eagle Christian High School near Baltimore. She and her two best friends, Hilary Faye (Mandy Moore) and Veronica (Elizabeth Thai), have formed a girl group called the Christian Jewels. Mary’s \"perfect Christian boyfriend\" Dean Withers (Chad Faust) tells her, as they’re swimming underwater, that he thinks he's gay. In her shock, Mary hits her head in the pool, and has a vision in which Jesus tells her that she must do everything she can to help Dean. Hoping for a sign, Mary goes to a shooting range with Hilary Faye, who has a \"spiritual solution for everything,\" and tells Mary (not knowing about the situation with Dean) that, if all else fails, Jesus could still restore their \"spiritual and emotional virginity.\" Believing that Jesus will restore her purity, Mary sacrifices her virginity to have sex with Dean in an attempt to restore his heterosexuality.\n\nDespite Mary's efforts, when she comes by Dean's house on the morning of the first day of school, Dean's parents tell her that they found gay pornography under his bed, and that they're sending him to Mercy House, a Christian treatment center. Mary tells her friends, as well as Hilary's brother Roland (Macaulay Culkin), who uses a wheelchair, about Dean's homosexuality, and makes them promise to keep it a secret. When they arrive at school, they see Cassandra Edelstein (Eva Amurri), the school's only Jewish student, and a rebel who despises Hilary. In homeroom, Mary meets new student Patrick (Patrick Fugit), who is the son of the school's principal, Pastor Skip Wheeler (Martin Donovan), a skateboarder who has been doing missionary work (through skateboarding) in South America. Mary tries to put up a good front at the assembly, in which Cassandra fakes speaking in tongues in order to get under the skins of the other students.\n\nMary soon realizes that she is pregnant from her encounter with Dean. When she goes to Planned Parenthood to confirm the pregnancy, she is seen by Roland and Cassandra. Roland reveals that he is not really a Christian, unlike his fanatically religious sister. Cassandra reveals she is only at American Eagle after being thrown out of her old school, and decided she could \"handle the freaks\" at American Eagle over being home-schooled by her parents. Roland and Cassandra bond over their shared skepticism. Mary finds out that she's not due to give birth until after her high school graduation and decides to hide her condition from her friends and family until then. However, she feels forsaken by Jesus and loses her faith, causing her to be ostracized by Hilary, and replaced in the Christian Jewels with a previously unpopular girl, Tia (Heather Matarazzo), who's been struggling to get into the Christian Jewels for years. Later, after Pastor Skip gets word about Mary, he tells the Jewels to help Mary regain her faith, but they seem to misunderstand him and stop Mary in the street and try to exorcise her of demons instead.\n\nBy Christmas, Mary is still hiding her pregnancy. Cassandra mocks her about it when they are alone in the bathroom, but when she realizes Mary's anguish, Cassandra changes her tone and offers her support. They cut school with Roland, and the three of them become good friends. When they run into Patrick and Hilary at the mall, Cassandra distracts Hilary (pretending she wants to be converted) while Patrick and Mary sneak away, and Patrick confesses his feelings for Mary. Pastor Skip warns his son against dating Mary, even as Pastor Skip (still married to his wife, although they live separate lives) has been secretly dating Mary's mother, Lillian (Mary-Louise Parker).\n\nA few months later, after multiple fights at school between Hilary Faye and Cassandra, Pastor Skip puts Roland, Cassandra and Mary on the school prom committee (chaired by Hilary Faye) to punish them. While working together, Patrick asks Mary to go with him to the prom, which Mary accepts, but as friends. Later that day, Roland and Cassandra get their hands on a picture of a younger, much heavier, and much more awkward Hilary Faye, and load it onto the desktop of every computer in the school. The next day, someone vandalizes the school with graffiti. Mary and Cassandra are initially the prime suspects, and to their shock, the spray cans are found in their lockers. While searching the lockers with the Jewels looking on, Mary's homeroom teacher finds a sonogram of Mary's baby. She tries to hide it, but it drops to the ground in front of Pastor Skip's feet. Cassandra is expelled from school, while Mary is banned from the prom.\n\nPastor Skip tells Lillian that he will break off their relationship if she does not send Mary to Mercy House. Lillian decides that she's going to send Mary away, saying that it's the best thing for Mary and the baby, but secretly because she doesn't want Skip to break up with her. Despite being banned, Cassandra and Roland scheme to go to prom, and to bring Mary with them, providing her with a dress and inviting Patrick to meet them. Roland also finds that Hilary Faye charged several cans of spray paint to her credit card just hours before the attack — indicating that \"she\" was the one who spray-painted the school.\n\nHilary Faye, Tia, and Veronica head to the prom. On their way in, Tia finds a credit-card receipt for the spray paint—signed by Hilary Faye. When Mary, Patrick, Cassandra and Roland arrive, Hilary attempts to have Mary and Cassandra thrown out, but Pastor Skip decides to let them stay. The four then accuse Hilary Faye of committing the vandalism herself, and framing Mary and Cassandra for it as revenge for humiliating her. Hilary Faye attempts to swear before God that she is innocent, but Tia, fed up with Hilary Faye's lies and hypocrisy, reveals the signed receipt to everyone, exposing Hilary as the true vandal. Veronica turns on Hilary as well, calling her a fake.\n\nAs the now-exposed Hilary Faye flees with the others in pursuit, Dean suddenly arrives with other teenagers from Mercy House. Dean is surprised, but not upset, by Mary's pregnancy; he meets Patrick warmly, and Mary is similarly accepting towards Dean's roommate/boyfriend Mitch. Pastor Skip tries to send the new arrivals back to Mercy House, but they refuse, and Mary and her friends support them. Suddenly, Hilary crashes her van into the school's huge effigy of Jesus. Realizing what she has done, she breaks down in tears of regret. Cassandra shows some sympathy towards Hilary, feeling sorry for her. As paramedics arrive to the accident scene, Mary abruptly goes into labor and is taken to the hospital. There, Mary gives birth to a girl.\n\nIn her hospital room, Mary's and Dean's friends and family crowd around the baby girl, while Pastor Skip waits outside debating whether to come in. In a voice-over, Mary tells the audience how she has returned to believing in a God who loves and helps the ones that love and help others in need.\n\n\n\"Saved!\" received positive reviews from critics; at critics aggregator site Rotten Tomatoes, the film currently holds a 60% rating of 82 positive reviews against 54 negative ones.\n\nPositive reviews praised the film's blending of teen comedy with serious issues not normally associated with the genre. \"Chicago Sun-Times\" film critic Roger Ebert gave the film three and a half out of four stars, calling it \"a pointed satire in the form of a teen comedy\". He and his partner Richard Roeper awarded the film \"Two Thumbs Up!\" on their show \"Ebert & Roeper and the Movies\".\n\nClaudia Puig of \"USA Today\" wrote: \"Not only is \"Saved!\" subversively funny, it is unexpectedly sweet.\" David Sterritt of the \"Christian Science Monitor\" called it, \"One of the season's brightest attractions.\" Randy Shulman of the \"Washington D.C. Metro Weekly\" said, \"Saved! hits precisely the right balance between commercial appeal and independent fortification, between bold satire and abiding respect for its subject.\" \"Film Threat\"s Don. R Lewis praised it: \"Equal parts satire, spoof and teen comedy, \"Saved!\" is just a sweet and funny movie that starts off with bite but settles into an honest feeling of happiness and acceptance for all types of people and their choices.\" Clint Morris of \"Movie Hole\" wrote that \"As witty as it’s well performed and as novel as it is daring...God Bless Mandy Moore and her fantastic set of acting chops\"! \"Apollo Guide\"s J. Allen Speer wrote: \"Ends up genuinely thought-provoking while putting the “fun” back in 'fundamentalist'.\" Brian McKay of eFilm Critic wrote: \"while it offers some hilariously scathing commentary on the inherent dangers of hypocrisy . . . above all the film preaches a message of tolerance to both sides of the fence.\"\n\nOther critics, however, criticized the film for alleged anti-Christian views. \"Slant Magazine\" was overwhelmingly negative on this issue, giving the film only half a star out of five and calling it the worst movie of the year.\n\n\"Saved!\" grossed $10,156,933 worldwide at the box office.\n\nA DVD version of the film is available with commentary from Dannelly, Urban and co-producer Sandy Stern as well as commentary by Jena Malone and Mandy Moore; theatrical trailer, access to deleted scenes, and some bloopers.\n\nPlaywrights Horizons produced a musical version of the film in 2008. Music and lyrics are by Michael Friedman with the book and lyrics by two-time Olivier Award nominee John Dempsey and Rinne Groff. The musical opened on June 3, 2008 at Playwrights Horizons and closed on June 22, 2008. The cast included Aaron Tveit, Celia Keenan-Bolger, John Dossett, Julia Murney, Curtis Holbrook, and Mary Faber.\n\n"}
{"id": "35899665", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35899665", "title": "Sfira", "text": "Sfira\n\nSfira, or Mrah Es-Sfire () is a northern Lebanese Sunni Muslim and Maronite Christian village. It is located in Miniyeh-Danniyeh District and bounded on the north by Kfarbnine, on the south by Beit El faqs, on the west by the mountain of Sfira and on the east by the western Lebanese chain.\n\n"}
{"id": "8583977", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8583977", "title": "Sikh Rajputs", "text": "Sikh Rajputs\n\nSikh Rajputs are followers of Sikhism belonging to the Rajput caste. \n\n1901 British census of India collected data on caste, tribe and religious affiliations of Indians. The census recorded 20,000 rajput converts to Sikhism.\n\nThese are a group of rebel Rajput princes and their descendants who converted to Sikhism under the great influence of the Sikh Gurus after their release from Gwalior. \n\nThese Rajput princes played an important role in the Khalsa army by militarising common Sikhs who were mostly peasants and traders into well trained soldiers. \nThey taught their Shastravidya to the Khatri Sikh Gurus and the common Sikhs, which was before that exclusive to Rajput princes only.\n\nSuch was the affection of the Sikh Gurus that these Rajput princes sacrificed their lives in saving the Guru's Panth which awarded them high ranking positions in the Khalsa army.\n\nThese Rajputs had successfully annexed the Punjab from Mughal Empire rule and established a new Sikh rule under the rakhi system.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "21326450", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21326450", "title": "Sinhalese Buddhist nationalism", "text": "Sinhalese Buddhist nationalism\n\nSinhalese Buddhist nationalism is a political ideology which combines a focus upon Sinhalese culture and ethnicity with an emphasis upon Theravada Buddhism, which is the majority belief system of most of the Sinhalese in Sri Lanka. It mostly originated in reaction to the colonisation of Sri Lanka by the British Empire and became increasingly assertive in the years following the independence of the country. \n\nAnagarika Dharmapala was one of the leading contributors to the Buddhist revival of the 19th century that led to the creation of Buddhist institutions and Buddhist schools to match those of the Christian missionaries, and to the independence movement of the 20th century. He illustrated the first three points in a public speech:\n\nHe called upon the Sinhalese people to rise. He strongly protested against the killing of cattle and eating of beef and promoted vegetarianism. \n\nSinhalese Buddhist nationalism has a fractious relationship with other religious communities like Christians, with protests often being organised by Buddhist nationalist organisations against Christians in the governance of the country through movements like Catholic Action. Relations between Buddhist nationalists and Hindus are more peaceful and friendly, with numerous Hindu figures, including Kandiah Neelakandan and T. Maheswaran working with Buddhist groups on the anti-Conversion bill. Also, D. B. S. Jeyaraj noted that both Sri Lankan Hindu nationalism and Buddhist nationalism rose as reactions to Christianity. Hindu-Buddhist collaboration is growing more prevalent in Sri Lanka, with the rise of groups such as the Hindu-Buddhist Friendship Society.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "9936430", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9936430", "title": "Sirsir", "text": "Sirsir\n\nSirsir is a Babylonian and Akkadian god, the patron deity of mariners and boatmen.\n\nThis name can be found in the spell book based on the Simon Necronomicon, and is presented there as one of the fifty names of Marduk. He is said to be the destroyer of Tiamat, and a \"most powerful lord\".\n"}
{"id": "15238595", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15238595", "title": "Spiritualism (beliefs)", "text": "Spiritualism (beliefs)\n\nSpiritualism is a metaphysical belief that the world is made up of at least two fundamental substances, matter and spirit. This very broad metaphysical distinction is further developed into many and various forms by the inclusion of details about what spiritual entities exist such as a soul, the afterlife, spirits of the dead, deities and mediums; as well as details about the nature of the relationship between spirit and matter. It may also refer to the philosophy, doctrine, or religion pertaining to a spiritual aspect of existence.\n\nIt is also a term commonly used for various psychic or paranormal practices and beliefs recorded throughout humanity's history and in a variety of cultures.\n\nSpiritualistic traditions appear deeply rooted in shamanism and perhaps are one of the oldest forms of religion. Mediumship is a modern form of shamanism and such ideas are very much like those developed by Edward Burnett Tylor in his theory of animism, in which there are other parallel worlds to our own, though invisible to us and not accessible to us in our state. A psychic is to be one of the connecting links between these worlds. A psychic is defined as someone endowed with exceptional sensitivity to the occult dimension, who experiences visions and revelations. Some authors have stated only few individuals are said to have this capacity.\n\nSpiritualism is the belief that spirits are able to communicate with the living by agency of a medium. The earliest recorded use of the word is 1796 and it was used by the prominent 18th-century spiritualist Emanuel Swedenborg. The term \"spiritualism\" has come to have different meanings. A broad working definition of the term would include the multi-faceted belief in a vital principle within living beings, a supernatural or paranormal, divine, incorporeal being–force, spirit–anima animating bodies etc. Adherents of spiritualistic movements believe that the spirits of the dead survive life, and that sentient beings from spiritual worlds can and do communicate with the living. Since ancient times, this has been an element in traditional indigenous religions. In today's world, it is a growing phenomenon manifesting itself in traditional indigenous religiosity on all continents through non-aligned spiritualistic groups and many syncretistic movements and within elements of orthodox religions by which it is still seen as a challenge.\n\nMany reference works also use the term \"spiritism\" to mean the same thing as \"spiritualism\" but \"Spiritism\" is more accurately used to mean Kardecist spiritism. Central to adherents' faith is a belief that spirits of the dead communicate with the living usually through a medium.\n\nThe word also takes on specific alternative meanings in various differing fields of academia, see below.\n\nSpiritualism is used in English to mean either;\n\n\"Modern Spiritualism\", or \"Modern American Spiritualism\" is used to refer to an Anglo-American religious movement having its golden age between the 1840s and 1920s but which continues on to this day.\n\nThe Nine Principles of the National Spiritualist Association of Churches, USA are;\n\n\nSpiritualism has been related to the practices of early Christianity and has developed into an additional form of Christian Spiritualism, e.g. the still active First Spiritual Temple in the USA founded in 1883 and the Greater World Christian Spiritualist League (later to become the Greater World Christian Spiritualist Association) in the UK which was founded in 1931.\n\nForemost in the movement towards Christian Spiritualism in the United Kingdom was one of the leading pioneers in the spiritualism movement, medium and Reverend William Stainton Moses. He was a member of the BNAS (British National Association of Spiritualists), vice-president of the Society for Psychic Research and launched the London Spiritualist Alliance which later became the College of Psychic Studies.\n\nContemporary Christian Spiritualist denominations also include those within the American Spiritual Church Movement pioneered by Leafy Anderson, such as the Metropolitan Spiritual Churches of Christ, founded in 1925, Pentecostal Spiritual Assemblies of Christ Worldwide, founded in 1938, whose motto is \"Pentecostal by Birth, Spiritual by Lifestyle, Apostolic by Experience, and Christian by Demand. A Spiritual Church... On a Spiritual Foundation... Walking in the Supernatural...,\" and Universal Hagar's Spiritual Church, founded in the 1920s.\n\nFrench spiritualism, better known as Spiritism; popular throughout France and Latin American countries.\nSpiritualist beliefs are found from time to time in the early literature of the French \"magnetists\". As early as 1787 M. Tardy de Montravel wrote that in the trance the soul of the \"somnambule\" became freed from its body and was able to intercourse with other spirits. Dr G.P. Billot, and J. P. F. Deleuze and recorded discussing and documenting seances from the 1820s.\n\nOf the early French Spiritualist, Alphonse Cahagnet, publisher of spirit messages such as \"Arcanes de la vie future devoiles\" (1848), is one of its foremost cases. Familiar with the teachings of Swedenborg, and interest evoked by contemporary German clairvoyants, in Paris of his day Cahagnet stood almost alone belonging to no school. For the advent of Modern Spiritualism in America, Cahagnet would have found few readers but his documentation of his work with the medium Adele Maginot were at once amongst the most remarkable and the best-attested documents on which the early case for Spiritualism depended.\n\nRepresentations of Native Americans images have played a significant role in nineteenth and twentieth century spiritualism although in reality Natives and their tradition have suffered considerably under the influences of competing Christian churches . Since 1970, there have been a number of individuals purporting to sell Native American spiritualism, sometimes called '\"American Indian Spiritualism.\" The spread of these beliefs began with a number of literary hoaxes undertaken by non-Indians such as Carlos Castaneda and Jamake Highwater. Several Native Americans have also sought to exploit interest in Native American spiritualism, writing distortions of indigenous spiritual practices and knowledge for consumption in the mass market. This situation has been attacked by legitimate Indian scholars and by activists such as the American Indian Movement, Survival of American Indians and the late Gerald Wilkenson, head of the National Indian Youth Council.\n\nSpiritualism in the Caribbean has taken different roads of expression based on its contact with other religious systems. In urban areas, for example, Spiritualists were highly literate and more apt to indulge the concepts of foreign authors. In the rural areas, however, illiteracy was widespread and practitioners held a diverse array of beliefs and practices.\n\nIn Cuba, for instance, two fundamental variants of espiritism exist:\n\n\nLa Mesa Blanca Spiritualism is the type of Espiritismo that made its way to US. The old line Eggungun form of service has not made much headway on the mainland. Séances, in Latino cultures, are called \"misas\". Santería, more properly called \"La Regla Lucumi\" (as the Yoruba were called in Cuba) is famous for its magic based on a knowledge of spirits and how to interact with them.\n\nDefinitions of spirit possession, channelling and mediumship within the Brazilian 'cultos' is recognised to correspond with what appears to be the majority view as described by ethnographers of spirit possession worldwide. There are a number of descriptions available concerning what happens when someone becomes possessed. Practises brought over by African slaves from West Africa, Mixed with indigenous South American tradition to develop their own flavour. During the suppression of Culto Omoloco or Umbanda by the Roman Catholic Church a period of syncretism commenced that included the introduction of images of the saints present in the churches presenting a new look for repressors behind which the Africans worshipped their gods and ancestors. This process of merger continued with the introduction of Kardecist spiritism and includes spiritualists.\n\nFrom: 'Channellers, Cowries and Conversations with the Gods: explaining multiple divination methods in an Afro-Brazilian religious tradition'.\n\nIn Puerto Rico, trance mediums feature in is spiritism and in Cuba, syncretic spiritualistic practises similar to Santería are called Santerfa and enjoy an estimated five million Hispanic American followers.\n\nSpiritualism is also practised within India in both modern and ancient forms involving contacting the spirits, knowledge and wisdom of ancestors who are then worshiped for generations. Spirituality in general is seen as a process of learning the secrets of the world beneath and outside to gain inner peace. It is prevalent in both the North and the South, and across caste divides by way of ritual, and exists in a variety of mediumship cults.\n\nIn 'A Tale of goddesses, money, and other terribly wonderful things: spirit possession, commodity fetishism, and the narrative of capitalism in Rajasthan', anthropologist J.G. Snodgrass explores the use of spiritualism amongst Rajasthani performing communities arguing for an appreciation of the way religious forms, and particularly the use of spiritual possessions, represent a form of language. Rajasthanis are possessed by a range of spiritual entities. Some of these are judged good and beneficial, some evil.\n\nTrance mediumship and channelling are also practised by the UN related new religious movement called, the Brahma Kumaris who have their headquarters in the state.\n\nNoted as early as 1850 by J. R. Logan in the Journal of the Indian Archipelago IV. 552 who illustrated the different forms of spiritualism which prevailed in Eastern Asia at that time\". Henry Olcott of the Theosophical Society went to length to draw correlations between Eastern spiritualistic practises and Modern Spiritualism.\n\nHsien-t'ien Tao sects claim to represent a way (Tao) that transcends and unites all other religions. Explicit syncretism is a noticeable feature of these groups who claim that their teachings aim to unify the \"Three Religions\" (Confucianism, Taoism, Buddhism), the \"Five Religions\" or even the former three plus Christianity and Islam. Most Hsien-tien Tao groups rely heavily on spirit-writing as a means of communicating with \"the Mother\" as well as lower-ranking deities. Amongst practitioners, the T'zu-hui Tang differ from the other Hsien-t'ien Tao sects, which were all originally based on the Chinese mainland, in that it originated in Taiwan in post-World War II years. It was founded in 1949, when the \"Golden Mother of the Jasper Pool\" revealed herself through a medium in the northeastern Taiwanese city of Hualien. The cults influence reaches to Malaysia.\n\nMesmerism, Planchette, and Spiritualism have also been noted in China, soon after the start of spiritualism in the West.\n\nin Japan, spirit mediums are called Reibai. Although the primary religion of Japan, Shintoism is essentially animistic, relating to Kami, or spirits, psychical research typical of the West was introduced to Japan by Wasaburou Asano (1874–1937). Wasaburou established the Society for Spiritual Science Research in Japan and is recognized as creating modern Japanese Spiritualism. His successor Takeo Waki further developing the movement. Later Hiroyoshi Kuwahara created Neo Spiritualism which combined Japanese Spiritualism with the content of British spirit messages.\n\nJapan Psychic Science Association (JPSA) was started in December 1946 promotes spiritualism and conducts psychical research. It provides members with the opportunities for psychic readings and healings and promotes scientific research by a team of scientists and engineers.\n\nRecently widespread popular interest was inspired by Hiroyuki Ehara, a self-professed spiritual counselor who hosts a weekly television show Aura no Izumi where he looks into celebrities' past lives and reads their \"auras\". Spiritual reading are known as Seishin Touitshuka. Other notable spiritualists include, Fukurai Tomokichi (1869–1952) Japanese pioneer of parapsychology, Mifune Chizuko (1886–1911), a clairvoyant. Mita Koichi (1885–1943), a psychic and Deguchi Onisaburo (1871–1948) Leader of Ohmoto, a Japanese Shinto sect who practised channelling known as Chinkon-kijin. Japan also has its own traditional form or table turning or ouija called kokkuri and spirits beings are called yokai in its folklore.\n\nOther Japanese religious leaders claiming to channel spirits include Ryuho Okawa of the Japanese new religious movement Kofuku-no-Kagaku, or Happy Science, who claims to channeled the spirits of Muhammad, Christ, Buddha, and Confucius.\n\nIn Samoa, Java, Tonga etc. distinctions are made between god-like and spirit-like beings, with gods representing the moral order and spirits dealing with periphery issues, both through channelling, mediumship and possession. Authors note the susceptibility of missionaries in Samoa to local spirits, remembering that spirits were a significant feature of the Victorian milieu through the revival of Spiritualism.\n\nIn Micronesia, recently deceased kin often appear as spirit visitors and possess female relatives in order to provide comfort and guidance. Identically to Anglo-American practises, they deliver important messages from beyond the grave. These spirits are fully sentient beings who retain social and emotional ties with their earthly homes and families. They occupy a liminal space between this world and the afterlife.\n\nDuring this liminal period, spirits must learn how to \"be dead\", while the living struggle to reconcile themselves to the corporeal death and new spiritual life of the departed. Spirit possession and other forms of spirit communication, including the popular use of ouija boards, help to facilitate the process of \"becoming dead\" on both sides of the cosmological divide. Spiritualistic practices play an important role in helping individuals to understand death as a journey when it is also marked by social rupture and the problems of grief and attachment.\n\nIn Australia, Aborigine tribes in Victoria called spirits Mrarts, understood to be the souls of \"Black Fellows dead and gone\", not demons unattached. The mediums, now very scarce, are Birraarks who were consulted as to matters present and future, whose practises include the 'spirit-rapping' known to the Modern Spiritualists and whistles, heard in certain Brazilian séances. The Māoris' specialty was 'trance utterance', the Tohungas being mediums.\n\nWest-African Kongol and Bantu tradition is generally referred to as Vodun (or anglicised to Voodoo). Spirit mediumship and spirit possession are fairly common practices in Sub-Saharan Africa, both in traditional religions and in Christian contexts. As is the norm, the term spiritualism and spiritism are used generally and interchangeably to describe indigenous spiritualistic practises. Spiritism, spiritualism, and spiritual churches have been established in Ghana and Nigeria. Following similar trends of the syncretism of traditional spirit worship and Christianity, they pervade everyday life to the top of society where they play a part in politic elections, ritualizing to help politicians win elections and interpreting events in prophetic terms and are used in healing.\n\nKubandwa is a spirit possession cult spread all over the Great Lakes region of Africa (Rwanda, Burundi, north-western Tanzania, Uganda, Eastern Congo) past women have played an important role in kubandwa, both as mediums and spirits. Tromba mediumship features in Madagascar.\n\nSpiritualism is practised but not condoned in Islamic societies. The Sufi sect of Dervishes are referred to as \"Eastern Spiritualists\". Likewise, the Zār cult of North Africa (Sudan, Egypt) and the Middle East (Iran).\n\nThe phenomena of Spiritualism consist of; prophecy, clairvoyance, clairaudience, gift of tongues, laying on of hands, healing, visions, trance, apports, revelations, raps, levitation, automatic and independent writing and painting, photography, materialization, psychometry, direct and independent voice, and any other manifestation lending support to the continuity of life after death.\n\nSuch universal practises and the giving of spiritual guidance, the different manifestations of spiritualistic activities were categorised by Sir William Crookes, a highly distinguished British physicist and chemist, as being:\n\nWomen have historically had a fairly constant interest in the spirit world. Spiritualism's current popularity in the West is a result of women having more power and visibility, giving the spirit world a prominence in society that it previously had only during spiritualism's \"boom\" periods when men became interested.\n\nHistorically, the majority of mediums for tromba spirits amongst the Sakalava have also been adult women, usually in their forties or older and is likewise associated with female status. In general, a Sakalava ritual in which the spirits must be fed, cannot be performed if the two are not present and represented.\n\nA Swedish scientist, philosopher, politician and theologian. Widely recognized as the \"Father of Modern Spiritualism\" but practicing before the movement started. A clairvoyant medium who used his spiritualist gifts for the royalty of Sweden.\n\nDeveloped the 19th-century spiritualist philosophical doctrine of Spiritism, popular in Francophone and Latin nations.\n\nAnthropologist, introduced the term animism.\n\nAmerican 20th-century mythology professor and author best known for his work in the fields of comparative religion.\n\nCarl Jung's doctoral dissertation was not medical research but the investigation of a medium, his maternal cousin, Hélène Preiswerk. The spiritualist narrative in Jung's personal life reached a climax in 1916 when he became convinced that his house was crammed with spirits. He practised a typically mediumistic activity of ‘spirit-directed' writing.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "32771686", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32771686", "title": "The Living Christ: The Testimony of the Apostles", "text": "The Living Christ: The Testimony of the Apostles\n\n\"The Living Christ: The Testimony of the Apostles\" is a 2000 restatement of doctrine of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints (LDS Church).\n\nThe document is a one-page declaration that was issued on January 1, 2000 and was signed by the fifteen apostles in the LDS Church: the three members of the First Presidency and the members of the Quorum of the Twelve Apostles. The declaration commemorates the birth of Jesus and is a reaffirmation of church doctrines and teachings about him. The text includes quotations of significant scriptural passages from the Bible and other LDS Church scriptures and identifies Jesus as the Jehovah of the Old Testament and Messiah of the New Testament.\n\nAlthough the Proclamation presents no new doctrines, it provides an official statement of the church on Jesus. Throughout the work are titles of Jesus.\n\n\nSince it was issued, the document has been frequently featured in church magazines and publications. One commentator has suggested that \"the document may have been created to strengthen LDS Christian claims\".\n\nThe document was signed by the following individuals:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "5699221", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5699221", "title": "Vern Harper", "text": "Vern Harper\n\nVern Harper (Traditional Name: Asin, meaning Stone/Grandfather) born on June 17, 1936 in Regent Park Toronto, Ontario – May 12, 2018) was a Canadian First Nations Cree Elder, medicine man, and Aboriginal rights activist. \n\nThe “Urban Elder” was a fifth generation grandson of Mistawasis, a hereditary Cree chief, and a sixth generation grandson of Big Bear.\n\nHe had a difficult and traumatic childhood, and was placed into the foster care system.\n\nVern Harper was an American Military Veteran. At the young age of 17, from 1952-1953 he served in The Korean War in the 82ND Airborne Division. He was a paratrooper specializing in parachute assault operations into denied areas. \n\nIn the mid to late 1960's he was the personal body guard of legendary singer Janis Joplin.\n\nAnd beginning in the late 1960’s, he was the Leader of The American Indian Movement (AIM) in Toronto, Canada. \n\nHarper became politically active as Vice-President of the Ontario Metis and Non-Status Indian Association in 1972.\nVern united The Toronto Warrior Society with The Ojibway Warrior Society of Kenora (led by Louis Cameron) and The Regina Warrior Society (led by Wayne Stonechild) to create the Native People’s Caravan in 1974, a cross Canada trek to raise awareness of broken treaties and grievances against the Canadian government. Together they were Dissidents for Native Peoples Rights.\n\nIn 1976, he founded the Wandering Spirit Survival School of Toronto (now known as First Nations School of Toronto).\n\nHe was the author of Following The Red Road: The Native People’s Caravan, 1974 (1979).\n\nMr. Harper was one of a few First Nations Elders with Chaplain Status, as recognized by the Correctional Service of Canada. As such, he provided spiritual services, sweat lodge ceremonies and traditional counseling to Aboriginal inmates. He also counseled Aboriginal youth offenders.\n\nIn 1997, Mr. Harper was the subject of the documentary \"Urban Elder\" which chronicled his life and role of community leader and Traditional Elder in an urban setting.\n\nMr. Harper served as Resident Elder at the Centre for Addiction and Mental Health (CAMH) in Toronto further promoting the role of First Nations spirituality in the treatment of mental health and addiction.\n\nElder Vern Harper-Asin was the Elder for the \"Reaching Out: Child Abuse Monument\" . He performed traditional aboriginal blessings, purification and healing ceremonies as part of Child Abuse Monument events, quilt square workshops and during activities in the sculpting studio and bronze casting foundry. The imagery in the palm of his hand on his monument quilt square is a spider representing his identification as \"Heyoka\". The Heyoka's humor and role as a clever and compassionate trickster were always close a hand in the traditional storytelling and ceremonies he performed. The written message Elder Harper-Asin engraved in the permanence of bronze beside his monument hand laments, \"\"I pray that the memory of the pain will leave forever – All my relations. Asin\"”.\n\nHe resided in Toronto, Ontario, Canada. He died on May 12, 2018, at the age of 81, and was laid to rest at Pine Hills Cemetery, in Toronto, on May 18, 2018.\n\nVern Harper has left behind his wife of 37 years Jerrilynn Harper, his daughters Carly, Cotee, (Gloria predeceased)susan, deanna, luanna, his sons (Richard Predeceased)Vernon Jr predeceased)Vincent predeceased) Clayton, ted, les, his grandchildren Tecumseh, meyosin-bawaajigan, Raine, Justin, Faith, charels, ramona, marina, leonard, (Leslie predeceased)debbie, bruce, bradley, richie, darnell, aron, rose, levi, felesha, cheyenne, joseph, julia, serafina, anthony, raymond, dakota, phoenix, pauline. His son-in-laws Theo, and Bo, and his sisters-in-laws Elaine Cote and Carolyn Cote, and brother-in-law artist Philip Cote.\n\n"}
{"id": "22877005", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22877005", "title": "Worship pastor", "text": "Worship pastor\n\nA worship pastor usually refers to a person who ministers using contemporary worship music or other Christian music, as well as counseling and pastoring members of the church's music team and worship ministries. This is a distinct role within a church, that contains elements of, and overlaps with some of the roles of a church music director and pastor, while being neither. Usually a worship pastor will also be considered a worship leader of the church with the added responsibilities of caring for members of a team, including other worship leaders and musicians.\n"}
{"id": "1718453", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1718453", "title": "Yahweh ben Yahweh", "text": "Yahweh ben Yahweh\n\nYahweh ben Yahweh (born Hulon Mitchell Jr.; October 27, 1935 – May 7, 2007) was an American man who in 1979 founded and led the Nation of Yahweh, a new religious movement headquartered in Florida that had thousands of African-American devotees at its peak. Born into a family affiliated with the Antioch Church of God in Christ in Enid, Oklahoma, his father, Reverend Dr. Hulon Mitchell Sr., was the minister and his mother, Dr. Pearl Mitchell, was the pianist.\n\nIn 1991, Mitchell was convicted of conspiring to murder, though his followers committed the actual crimes. They murdered white people as an initiation rite to his cult, as well as killing former members who disagreed with him, in one case by decapitation. He was released on parole in 2001 on the condition of not reconnecting with his old congregation. He died of prostate cancer in 2007.\n\nThe Nation of Yahweh set up its headquarters in Liberty City, Florida in 1979. Broadly classified as a branch of the Black Hebrew Israelite movement, \nMitchell's doctrine emphasized that God and all the prophets of the Bible were black and blacks would gain the knowledge of their true history through him. He also characterized whites and particularly Jews as infidels and oppressors. Lastly, he emphasized loyalty to himself as the son of God, Yahweh.\n\nMitchell's business and charity efforts earned him respect in the community. The mayor of Miami, Florida Xavier Suárez, declared \"Yahweh ben Yahweh Day\" on October 7, 1990, a month before his indictment for alleged crimes.\n\nAlthough his followers remained devoted to him, by the 1990s, he was in trouble with the law. From 1990 until his release on September 26, 2001, he served 11 years of an 18-year sentence on a Racketeer Influenced and Corrupt Organizations Act (RICO) conviction after he and several other Nation of Yahweh members were convicted of conspiracy in more than a dozen murders. Robert Rozier, former NFL player and devotee of Mitchell, confessed to seven murders.\n\nThe indictment charged 18 specific instances of racketeering, including 14 killings, two attempted killings, extortion and arson. He was acquitted of first degree murder charges in 1992.\n\nMitchell was released on parole in 2001, and returned to Miami, but his activities were strongly restricted until a few months before his death. He was prohibited from reconnecting with his old congregation. To assure this, he was restricted from any form of speech by telephone, computer, radio or television that could place him in contact with any congregational members. \nIn 2006, as he became increasingly ill with prostate cancer, his attorney, Jayne Weintraub, petitioned the U.S. District Court for his release from parole to permit him to \"die with dignity\".\n\nA ruling on a failed appeal, U.S. v. Yahweh Ben Yahweh (792 F. Supp. 104) starts:\n\nViolent crime cases are the exception in federal courts. The instant case is arguably the most violent case ever tried in a federal court: the indictment charges the sixteen defendants on trial with 14 murders by means such as beheading, stabbing, occasionally by pistol shots, plus severing of body parts such as ears to prove the worthiness of the killer. They were also charged with arson of a slumbering neighborhood using molotov cocktails. The perpetrators were ordered to wait outside the innocent victims' homes wearing ski masks and brandishing machetes to deter the victims from fleeing the flames. \n\nHowever, his lawyers’ attempt to end the conditions for his parole eventually succeeded.\n\nYahweh ben Yahweh faced conviction only for conspiracy to murder. A primary component of the prosecution's case was the testimony of Robert Rozier, a former NFL player and Yahweh ben Yahweh follower, who admitted to several of the murders and testified in return for a lighter sentence. Rozier later entered the Witness Protection Program, but returned to prison after being given a 25 years to life sentence under California's three strikes law, following a check kiting conviction.\n\nHe had the Federal Bureau of Prisons ID# 22031-034.\n\nYahweh ben Yahweh died May 7, 2007, from prostate cancer.\n\nThe story of the police investigation and prosecution of Yahweh ben Yahweh is the subject of an episode of \"The FBI Files\" entitled \"Temple of Fear\" (Season 3, Episode 10) as well as an Investigation Discovery Channel episode of \"Most Infamous\". On November 2, 2016 MSNBC's \"Rachel Maddow Show\" featured an exposé on Yahweh Ben Yahweh and his followers connection to the 2016 Donald Trump presidential campaign. A 2018 episode of People Magazine - Cults entitled \"Yahweh Nation,\" also on Investigation Discovery, tells the story of Hulon Mitchell Jr.\n\nHis younger sister Leona Mitchell is a noted soprano who sang at the Metropolitan Opera.\n\n\n"}
