{"id": "4973010", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4973010", "title": "AP Human Geography", "text": "AP Human Geography\n\nAdvanced Placement Human Geography (also known as AP Human Geo, AP Geography, APHG, AP HuGe, HGAP, AP HuGs, APHUG, AP HUMAN, or High School Ap Human) is an Advanced Placement social studies course that studies human geography. The test is administered by College Board.\n\nThis college-level course introduces students to the systematic study of patterns and processes that have shaped human understanding, use, and alteration of Earth's surface. Students employ spatial concepts and landscape analyses to analyze human social organization and its environmental consequences. They also learn about the methods and tools geographers use in their science and practice.\n\nThe AP Human Geography Exam consists of two sections. The first section consists of 75 multiple choice questions and the second section consists of 3 free-response questions. The sections are 60 and 75 minutes long, respectively. It is not necessary to answer the free-response questions in essay form; instead, points are awarded on certain key words, examples, and other vital aspects.\n\nThe topics covered by the exam are as follows:\n\nThe curriculum consists of informational book-related homework, which often requires students to strive to learn information independently. The curriculum teaches about diffusion, human traits, religion, and population clusters.\n\nThe exam was first held in 2001. Grade distributions for the Human Geography scores since 2010 were:\n"}
{"id": "34023208", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34023208", "title": "Andy Liu", "text": "Andy Liu\n\nAndrew Chiang-Fung Liu is a Canadian mathematician. He is a professor emeritus in the Department of Mathematical and Statistical Sciences at the University of Alberta.\n\nLiu attended New Method College in Hong Kong.\nHe then did his undergraduate studies in mathematics at McGill University, and earned his Ph.D. in 1976 from the University of Alberta, under the supervision of Harvey Abbott, with a dissertation about hypergraphs.\n\nHe was the leader of the Canadian team to the International Mathematical Olympiad in 2000 (South Korea) and 2003 (Japan) and acts as vice-president of the Tournament of Towns.\n\n"}
{"id": "4660119", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4660119", "title": "Argentine University Federation", "text": "Argentine University Federation\n\nThe Argentine University Federation (in Castilian: \"Federación Universitaria Argentina (FUA)\") is the most important student organization in Argentina\n\nThe FUA was created on April 11, 1918 within the University Reform student movement originated in Córdoba, which later spread though Latin America, that demanded an autonomous system in which teachers, graduates, and students would participate in the government of the universities.\n\nThe FUA gathers the university federations of every local university, which are at the same time composed of student centres of each faculty, totalling a million and a half students throughout the country. The biggest and most important of such federations is the FUBA of the University of Buenos Aires with over 300,000 students (as of 2005). Other important federations include the FULP (La Plata), FUR (Rosario), FUC (Córdoba), FUT (Tucumán) and FUL (Litoral).\n\nIn 1894 was founded in the Faculty of Engineering of the UBA the first student centre in Argentina, under the name \"La Línea Recta\".\nMedicine and Law had their own in 1940 and 1905 respectively. The most powerful student centre nowadays is that of the Economic Sciences of the UBA, with 50,000 students, followed by UBA's Law school (35,000) and Medicine (29,000).\n\nSince its beginnings the FUA supported a politic of Latin American unity and international solidarity. In 1920 Gabriel del Mazo signed, on behalf of the FUA, an exchange and coordination agreement with the Peruvian \"Federación de Estudiantes del Perú\"'s president Raúl Haya de la Torre.\n\nIn 1921 the FUA participated of the organization of the First International Students Congress at Mexico City, from which the International Students Federation was born. In 1925 it participated of the organization of the First Ibero-American Students Congress also in Mexico city. In that congress Alfredo Palacios, Miguel de Unamuno, José Ingenieros, José Martí and José Vasconcelos are declared \"teachers of the youth\".\n\nIn 1937 took place in Santiago de Chile the First Latin American Students Congress. In 1957 the FUA organised the Second Latin American Students Congress, in La Plata.\n\nIncomplete list of presidents of the:\n\nSome important students' leaders of the FUA have been:\n\nDeodoro Roca, Enrique Barros, Emilio Biagosh, Gabriel del Mazo, Héctor Ripa Alberti, Guillermo Watson, Julio V. González, Gumersindo Sayago, Horacio Valdés, Ismael Bordabehere, Conrado Nalé Roxlo, Alfredo Brandán Caraffa, Florentino Sanguinetti, Guillermo Korn Villafañe, Carlos Cossio, Miguel Angel Zabala Ortiz, Miguel Berçaitz, Aníbal Ponce, Ricardo Balbín, Bartolomé Fiorini, Homero Manzi, Arturo Jaureche, Sebastián Soler, Alejandro Korn, José Peco, Ernesto Sábato, Héctor Agosti, Ernesto Giudici, Carlos Sánchez Viamonte, Gregorio Bermann, Luis Dellepiane, Raúl Orgaz, Arturo Capdevila, Arturo Orgaz, Bernardo Kleiner, Alfredo Abregú, Emilio Nadra.\n\nCarlos Canitrot, Emilio Gibaja, León Patlis, Noé Jitrik, Gustavo Cirigliano, Francisco Oddone, Marcos Merchensky, Andrés López Accotto, Ana María Eichelbaum, Gregorio Klimovsky, Ismael Viñas, Julio Godio, Germán López, Guillermo Estévez Boero.\n\nCarlos Cevallos, Ariel Seoane, Domingo Teruggi, Jorge Enea Spilimbergo, Hugo Varsky, Marcelo Stubrin, Federico Storani, Roberto Vázquez, Ernesto Jaimóvich, Changui Cáceres, Rubén Giustiniani, Miguel Talento, José Pablo Ventura, Rafael Pascual, Vilma Ibarra, Ricardo López Murphy, Rogelio Simonato, Francisco Delich, María del Cármen Viñas, Gustavo Galland, Facundo Suárez Lastra.\n\nAndrés Delich, Mario Alarcón, Damián Farah, Juan Artusi, Verónica García, Martín Baintrub, Daniel Pavicich, Alicia Castigliego, Ariel Martinez, Daniel Bravo.\n\nThroughout its history, there have been several and varied movements, ideologies, and parties that coexisted, and still do, in the Argentine students' politics: radicals, socialists, Peronists, communists, Maoists, etc.\n\nThe \"Franja Morada\", youth arm of the UCR, is the party that most often has directed the FUA since Franja Morada's creation in 1970, and has remained in the presidency from 1973 to 2016. Other important parties are the Juventud Universitaria Peronista or JUP (of the Justicialism) and the Movimiento Nacional Reformista (MNR) of the Socialist Party, who has ruled during the 1970s.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "56881282", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56881282", "title": "Army Foundation College recruit abuse investigation 2014–18", "text": "Army Foundation College recruit abuse investigation 2014–18\n\nThe Army Foundation College recruit abuse investigation 2014–18 was a response to allegations from a group of 17-year-old British army recruits that 17 instructors had maltreated them during their training over nine days in June 2014. It was reported as the British army's largest ever investigation of abuse. Among the allegations were that the instructors assaulted recruits, smeared cattle dung into their mouths, and held their heads under water. The accused were initially charged with 40 counts of battery, actual bodily harm, and other offences; all denied the charges made against them.\n\nCharges against seven of the accused were dropped by the time of the preliminary hearing on 21 September 2017. The court martial began with the remaining ten accused on 12 February 2018. The hearing was expected to last four weeks, but soon collapsed after the judge ruled that the Royal Military Police (RMP) had abused the investigatory process and that a fair trial would therefore not be possible. Specifically, the judge criticised the investigation as 'seriously flawed': the RMP had failed to interview several key witnesses, took two years to arrest the accused for questioning under caution, and took three years to bring the case to trial. All the accused were released without further charges.\n\nThe British army enlists new recruits from age 16. Recruits aged between 16 and 17.5 years, known as Junior Soldiers (JS), undergo 12 months of initial training based at the Army Foundation College in Harrogate, Yorkshire. Towards the end of this period, recruits destined for the infantry travel to battle camp in Kirkcudbright, Dumfries and Galloway, which includes bayonet practice. Infantry recruits then complete their training at the Infantry Training Centre in Catterick, Yorkshire.\n\nAllegations of abuse at the Army Foundation College have been common. Between 2014 and 2017, recruits made 50 formal complaints of assault or ill-treatment.\n\nAmong the initial allegations reported in the \"Mail on Sunday\" on 12 August 2017 were that seventeen instructors from the Army Foundation College, having taken their trainees to battle camp in Kirkcudbright, had pushed cow dung into the recruits' mouths, held their heads under water, and kicked and punched them repeatedly during bayonet training. The recruits concerned were aged 17; the instructors were all corporals or sergeants, and included veterans of the Afghanistan War and Iraq War.\n\nThe instructors faced 40 charges of battery, actual bodily harm and other ill-treatment. All the accused denied any wrongdoing.\n\nBy the time of the preliminary hearing of 21 September 2017, charges against seven of the accused had been dropped, leaving ten defendants to face 25 counts of ill-treatment and six of battery. All defendants entered not-guilty pleas.\n\nThe trial began on 12 February 2018 at Bulford Military Court Centre with Assistant Judge Advocate General Alan Large presiding. After the opening prosecution arguments, the defence applied to have the proceedings stayed as an abuse of process, meaning that the allegations were not investigated and brought to court in proper order. The judge agreed and, describing the investigation as 'seriously flawed' and 'totally blinkered', criticised the military police for failing to interview key witnesses and taking too long to bring the case to trial. On grounds that the defendants could no longer be fairly tried, the judge stayed the case and all defendants were released.\n\nThe following chronology is summarised from the legal judgement.\n\nThe collapse of the case was reported on the BBC ITV, STV, and in the \"Guardian\", \"Daily Mail\", \"Mirror\", \"Northern Echo\", \"Telegraph\", \"Times,\" \"Yorkshire Evening Post\", and \"Yorkshire Post\".\n\nLewis Cherry, a defence lawyer at the court martial interviewed for the BBC said he was 'appalled' by the failure of the military police to conduct its investigation in proper order, and said his clients would be 'relieved that the nightmare of these false allegations hanging over them for many years is over'.\n\nHuman rights campaigners argued that the 'multiple failures' that led to the case collapsing showed that the military should not be entrusted to administer its own justice. The campaign group ForcesWatch said that the case's collapse meant that 'serious allegations of abuse against some of the army's youngest recruits have gone untested'.\n\nThe Ministry of Defence announced an internal review.\n\n"}
{"id": "15226844", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15226844", "title": "Arthur Gostick Shorrock", "text": "Arthur Gostick Shorrock\n\nArthur Gostick Shorrock (1861–1945), a pioneer Baptist missionary in China for 40 years. Arthur was born in 1861 in Blackburn, Lancashire, England. He entered Spurgeon's College and as a student preacher took services at the Baptist Chapel in Wraysbury. There he met his future wife, Maud Doulton, a relative of both Henry Doulton the pottery manufacturer and William Thomas Buckland the Wraysbury auctioneer. Arthur then left to become a missionary in China before returning to live in Wraysbury after his retirement.\n\nArthur joined the Baptist Missionary Society and went to China in 1887, firstly to Shantung. In 1897 he journeyed to India with one of China's most influential Baptist missionaries, Timothy Richard. Richard hoped to see the conditions of mission work in India and was pleased to have the \"able and earnest\" young missionary as a traveling companion. They visited Sri Lanka, Madras, Agra, Varanasi, Delhi, Mumbay and Kolkata, where Arthur \"had a sharp attack of cholera, narrowly escaping with his life.\"\n\nIn 1892 Arthur Shorrock and Moir Duncan founded the \"Sianfu Mission\", in present-day Xi'an, Shaanxi Province. Arthur was responsible for the Baptist mission work in Shaanxi and became the Principal of the \"Shaanxi Bible College\". In 1898 Moir Duncan and his wife returned to England on a furlough. Maud Doulton, who was attending the \"Royal Holloway College\" before graduating in 1890, was then engaged to Arthur. She left England in January 1900 accompanied by the Duncans. Arthur and Maud were married soon after arriving in Shanghai and they and the Duncans arrived back in Xi'an on 24 May 1900. Seven weeks later, on 6 July they were forced to leave the city secretly to escape the Taiyuan Massacre during the Boxer Rebellion.\n\nTwo years later they returned and Maud then took responsibility for 'Women's Work', and in 1914 became principal of the church's \"Girls' High School\" in Xi'an. Up until shortly before Arthur Shorrock left China, the following missionaries had worked with him:\n\nTogether with the Chinese members they established the following:\n\nArthur was horrified by the impact of the opium trade. In 1890 he was a founding member of the \"Permanent Committee for the Promotion of Anti-Opium Societies\". Fellow committee members included the prominent missionaries John Glasgow Kerr MD, American Presbyterian Mission in Canton; B.C. Atterbury MD, American Presbyterian Mission in Peking; Archdeacon Arthur Evans Moule, Church Missionary Society in Shanghai; Henry Whitney MD, American Board of Commissioners for foreign Missions in Foochow; the Rev Samuel Clarke, China Inland Mission in Kweiyang and the Rev Griffith John, London Missionary Society in Hankow. They resolved to continue their opposition to the opium traffic, urging Christians in China to arouse public opinion against it. The desire of the missionaries that their ideas be carried out caused them to form \"continuation committees\" that were assigned tasks to assure that action would be taken on whatever matters had been approved by the conferences. \nHe continued working with other missionaries opposed to the opium trade, including writing to Alexander Hosie about poppy cultivation and corruption associated with attempts to end the cultivation.\n\nOnce the Xinhai Revolution reached Shaanxi, resulting in the death of eight foreigners, an evacuation of all missionaries and other foreigners in the region was planned. The Rev J C Keyte and the explorer Arthur de Carle Sowerby planned the relief expedition, and all but a handful of the mission was successfully evacuated due to their efforts. However, Arthur, Maud and their daughter Mary remained in Shaanxi. Arthur gave the following reason for remaining: -\n\nArthur's contributions to China were rewarded with the awarding of the \"Order of the Excellent Crop, Third Class,\" conferred upon him by the President of the Republic of China in 1917. Popular sentiment in the 1920s in China was directed against missionaries, foreign merchants, Christian schools, churches and hospitals which were viewed as 'imperialistic'.\n\nArthur Shorrock helped organise the 1925 \"Shensi Baptist Conference\", writing a book that argued that missionaries were not imperialist. At the time he wrote:\n\nMany missionaries were forced to leave China in the following years. For the Baptist Missionary Society such experiences resulted in them becoming more sensitive to the political situation of different mission fields.\n\nThe evangelical methods used at the time in Shaanxi were described as follows:\n\nWhile missionaries and other foreigners were besieged in Sianfu,\nArthur's wife, Maude, died on 25 September 1925 of typhoid. After his retirement, he returned to Wraysbury and became the minister of the Baptist Chapel there. He died on 13 June 1945 in Windsor, aged 83, and is buried in Wraysbury together with his wife.\n\n"}
{"id": "33952408", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33952408", "title": "Association of Independent Colleges and Universities in Massachusetts", "text": "Association of Independent Colleges and Universities in Massachusetts\n\nThe Association of Independent Colleges and Universities in Massachusetts (AICUM), is a grouping of accredited, independent, private colleges and universities in the state of Massachusetts. The Association advocates in public policy forums on behalf of its member institutions.\n\nAICUM is headquartered in Boston, Massachusetts, and it was established by a panel of university presidents. Its current president is Richard Doherty. AICUM is a member of the Coalition for College Cost Savings, and the National Association of Independent Colleges and Universities\n\n"}
{"id": "15827887", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15827887", "title": "Business-education partnerships", "text": "Business-education partnerships\n\nA business–education partnership is involvement between schools and business-industry, unions, governments and community organizations. These partnerships are established by agreement between two or more parties to establish goals, and to construct a plan of action for achievement of those goals.\n\nBusiness-education partnerships may involve entire school boards and hundreds of students. Others pair private partners with a single class or individual students. Business-education partnerships serve business and industry by providing activities such as in-service training to employees, use of facilities, student directed projects, software development or marketing research. They also serve to strengthen instruction in academic skills and to enrich the educational process through the talents and ideas of the personnel of participating businesses.\n\nFrank and Smith (1997), have suggested four classifications for business-education partnerships based on the process the partnership employs. They found that most business-education partnerships could be categorized into one of the four classifications.\n\n\nThere are hundreds of activities in which businesses and schools can engage. These may include:\n\nPartnerships with schools may: \n\nIt may involve:\n\nDonald M. Clark of The American Association for Career Education (AACE), concurs with the report to Congress on the implementation of the School-to-Work Opportunities Act of 1994 that \"more must be done to involve employers.\" He states that studies of \"business-education partnerships\" since the White House announcement in 1983 urging this type of connection between the two sectors, have consistently pointed out that they have had little, if any, impact on producing fundamental change in the educational system. More specifically, they rarely encompass attempts to affect the curriculum, the overall educational process, or the acquisition of basic skills. Nor have they significantly affected the dropout rate of participating students (Clark, 1996).\nThe evidence of this growing disenchantment by business and industry was seen in the nationwide surveys of employers conducted by the National Center on the Education quality of the Workforce (EQW). The surveys revealed that most partnerships have diffuse and unquantifiable goals and most of the partnership activities are brief and episodic and involve low levels of investment; they seldom run long enough to make a long-term difference.\n\nHRDC’s evaluation of programs for in-school youth, taken from its June 1997 final report on the Effectiveness of Employment-Related Programs for Youth: Lessons Learned from Past Experience sheds more light on the long-term impact of limited short-term results. This study found that the most effective programs for young people provide sustained adult contact. Results indicate that the most effective strategies for keeping young people in school are those that build bridges to the world of work while young people are still in school. The most effective strategies were found to combine a training component with strong links to the employer community, more formal training linked to on-the-job training and work experience, and job search assistance and transitional wage subsidies (HRDC June 1997). There is some evidence that co-operative education programs lead to improved employment outcomes in post-secondary school although the number of work experience placements offered by employers is quite limited. \nThere are a number of concerns regarding the presence of corporations in the school. There is a fear that the active involvement of business will encourage governments to retreat from their role as the primary funders of education (Torjman, 1998). Other issues of corporate involvement in schools reveal disquieting implications of a corporate ideology and ethos entering the learning experience of our young people (Hill and McGowan, 1996). Teachers are concerned that partnerships with corporations involved in military research and development send a clear message to students. The presence of military contractors in classrooms suggests that schools are not concerned with violence and oppression in the world (Hill and McGowan, 1996). \nSome school boards have developed business-education guidelines which are intended to act as a code that partners can apply to regulate themselves throughout the duration of the partnership but according to the Conference Board of Canada, guidelines and codes of conduct differ significantly (Hill and McGowan, 1996). A code of conduct serves as a screening process to ensure that only socially-responsible businesses are granted access to schools and the partnerships activities would be monitored by an external evaluation committee of parents, community members, teachers and business representatives.\n\n\nCanada\n\nUnited States\n"}
{"id": "54522676", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54522676", "title": "Claire Wilcox", "text": "Claire Wilcox\n\nClaire Wilcox (born 1954) is senior curator of fashion at the Victoria and Albert Museum. She received an honorary doctorate in art and design from Middlesex University in July 2017. She sits on the editorial board of the journal \"Fashion Theory\". She is professor of fashion curation at the London College of Fashion.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "665948", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=665948", "title": "Collaborative learning", "text": "Collaborative learning\n\nCollaborative learning is a situation in which two or more people learn or attempt to learn something together. Unlike individual learning, people engaged in collaborative learning capitalize on one another's resources and skills (asking one another for information, evaluating one another's ideas, monitoring one another's work, etc.). More specifically, collaborative learning is based on the model that knowledge can be created within a population where members actively interact by sharing experiences and take on asymmetric roles. Put differently, collaborative learning refers to methodologies and environments in which learners engage in a common task where each individual depends on and is accountable to each other. These include both face-to-face conversations and computer discussions (online forums, chat rooms, etc.). Methods for examining collaborative learning processes include conversation analysis and statistical discourse analysis.\n\nThus, collaborative learning is commonly illustrated when groups of students work together to search for understanding, meaning, or solutions or to create an artifact or product of their learning. Further, collaborative learning redefines traditional student-teacher relationship in the classroom which results in controversy over whether this paradigm is more beneficial than harmful. Collaborative learning activities can include collaborative writing, group projects, joint problem solving, debates, study teams, and other activities. The approach is closely related to cooperative learning.\n\nCollaborative learning is rooted in Lev Vygotsky's concept of learning called zone of proximal development. Typically there are tasks that learners can and cannot accomplish. Between these two areas is the zone of proximal development, which is a category of things that a learner can learn but with the help of guidance. The zone of proximal development gives guidance as to what set of skills a learner has that are in the process of maturation. In Vygotsky's definition of zone of proximal development, he highlighted the importance of learning through communication and interactions with others rather than just through independent work. This has made way for the ideas of group learning, one of which being collaborative learning.\n\nCollaborative learning is very important in achieving critical thinking. According to Gokhale (1995), individuals are able to achieve higher levels of learning and retain more information when they work in a group rather than individually, this applies to both the facilitators of knowledge, the instructors, and the receivers of knowledge, the students. For example, Indigenous communities of the Americas illustrate that collaborative learning occurs because individual participation in learning occurs on a horizontal plane where children and adults are equal.\n\nThere has been a split regarding to the differences between collaborative and cooperative learning. Some believe that collaborative learning is similar, yet distinct from cooperative learning. While both models use a division of labor, collaborative learning requires the mutual engagement of all participants and a coordinated effort to solve the problem whereas cooperative learning requires individuals to take responsibility for a specific section and then coordinate their respective parts together. Another proposed differentiation is that cooperative learning is typically used for children because it is used to understand the foundations of knowledge while collaborative learning applies to college and university students because it is used to teach non-foundations of learning. Another believed difference is that cooperative learning is a philosophy of interaction where collaborative learning is a structure of interaction.\n\nHowever, many psychologists have defined cooperative learning and collaborative learning similarly. Both are group learning mechanisms for learners to obtain a set of skills or knowledge. Some notable psychologists that use this definition for both collaborative and cooperative learning are Johnson & Johnson, Slavin, Cooper and more.\n\nOften, collaborative learning is used as an umbrella term for a variety of approaches in education that involve joint intellectual effort by students or students and teachers by engaging individuals in interdependent learning activities. Many have found this to be beneficial in helping students learn effectively and efficiently than if the students were to learn independently. Some positive results from collaborative learning activities are students are able to learn more material by engaging with one another and making sure everyone understands, students retain more information from thoughtful discussion, and students have a more positive attitude about learning and each other by working together.\n\nEncouraging collaborative learning may also help improve the learning environment in higher education as well. Kenneth Bruffee performed a theoretical analysis on the state of higher education in America. Bruffee aimed to redefine collaborative learning in academia. Simply including more interdependent activities will help the students become more engaged and thoughtful learners, but teaching them that obtaining knowledge is a communal activity itself.\n\nWhen compared to more traditional methods where students non-interactively receive information from a teacher, cooperative, problem-based learning demonstrated improvement of student engagement and retention of classroom material. A meta-analysis comparing small-group work to individual work in K-12 and college classrooms also found that students working in small groups achieved significantly more than students working individually, and optimal groups for learning tended to be three- to four-member teams with lower-ability students working best in mixed groups and medium-ability students doing best in homogeneous groups. For higher-ability students, group ability levels made no difference. \nIn more than 40 studies of elementary, middle, and high school English classrooms, discussion-based practices improved comprehension of the text and critical-thinking skills for students across ethnic and socioeconomic backgrounds. Even discussions lasting as briefly as ten minutes with three participants improved perceived understanding of key story events and characters.\n\nThe popularity of collaborative learning in the workplace has increased over the last decade. With the emergence of many new collaborative tools, as well as the cost benefit of being able to reinforce learning in workers and in trainees during collaborative training, many work environments are now looking toward methods that involve collaborating with older employees and giving trainees more of a hands-on approach. Most companies are transitioning from traditional training programs that include instructor-led training sessions or online guided tutorials. Collaborative learning is extremely helpful because it uses past experiences from prior employees to help new trainees get over different challenges.\n\nThere are many facets to collaboration in the workplace. It is critical to helping worker's share information with each other and creating strategic planning documents that require multiple inputs. It also allows for forms of vertical integration to find effective ways to synchronize business operations with vendors without being forced to acquire additional businesses.\n\nMany businesses still work on the traditional instructor and trainee model and as they transition from one model to another there are many issues that still need to be debugged in the conversation process:\n\nWeb technologies have been accelerating learner-centered personalized learning environments. This helps knowledge be constructed and shared, instead of just passed down by authorities and passively consumed or ignored. Technologies such as discussion threads, email or electronic bulletin boards by sharing personal knowledge and ideas do not let others refine individual ideas so we need more collaborative tools. Now these tools on Web 2.0 have been able to enhance collaborative learning like no other because it allows individuals to work together to generate, discuss and evaluate evolving ideas. These tools allow for them to find people that are like minded and collaborate with them effortlessly.\n\nAccording to a collaborative learning study conducted by Lee & Bonk (2014), there are still many issues that are still being resolved when dealing with collaborative learning in a workplace. The goal was to examine corporate personnel, including learning managers and instructors, plus the tools that they use for collaboration. The researchers conducted an online survey to see what aspects of collaborative learning should be investigated, followed by an open discussion forum with 30 corporate personnel. The results showed that collaboration is becoming very necessary in workplaces and tools such as wikis are very commonly used. There is implication for a lot of future work, in order to have collaborative learning be highly effective in the workplace. Some of the unsolved problems they identified:\nIt is crucial to consider the interactive processes among people, but the most critical point is the construction of new knowledge brought about through joint work.\n\nTechnology has become an important factor in collaborative learning. Over the past ten years, the Internet has allowed for a shared space for groups to communicate. Virtual environments have been critical to allowing people to communicate long-distances but still feel like they are part of the group. Research has been conducted on how technology has helped increase the potential of collaborative learning.One study in particular conducted by Elizabeth Stacey looked at how technology affected the communication of postgraduate students studying a Master of Business Administration (MBA) using computer-mediated communication (CMC). Many of these students were able to still remotely learn even when they were not present on their university campus. The results of the study helped build an online learning environment model but since this research was conducted the Internet has grown extensively and thus new software is changing these means of communication.\n\nThere has been a development of new technology that support collaborative learning in higher education and the workplace. These tools allow for a strong more power and engaging learning environment. Chickering identified seven principles for good practice in undergraduate education developed by Chickering. Two of these principles are especially important in developing technology for collaboration.\nSome examples of how technology is being increasingly integrated with technology are as follows:\n\nCollaborative networked learning: according to Findley (1987) \"Collaborative Networked Learning (CNL) is that learning which occurs via electronic dialogue between self-directed co-learners and learners and experts. Learners share a common purpose, depend upon each other and are accountable to each other for their success. CNL occurs in interactive groups in which participants actively communicate and negotiate learning with one another within a contextual framework which may be facilitated by an online coach, mentor or group leader.\n\nComputer-supported collaborative learning (CSCL) is a relatively new educational paradigm within collaborative learning which uses technology in a learning environment to help mediate and support group interactions in a collaborative learning context. CSCL systems use technology to control and monitor interactions, to regulate tasks, rules, and roles, and to mediate the acquisition of new knowledge.\n\nCollaborative learning using Wikipedia: Wikipedia is an example of how collaborative learning tools have been extremely beneficial in both the classroom and workplace setting. They are able to change based on how groups think and are able to form into a coherent idea based on the needs of the Wikipedia user.\n\nCollaborative learning in virtual worlds by their nature provide an excellent opportunity for collaborative learning. At first learning in virtual worlds was restricted to classroom meetings and lectures, similar to their counterparts in real life. Now collaborative learning is evolving as companies starting to take advantage of unique features offered by virtual world spaces - such as ability to record and map the flow of ideas, use 3D models and virtual worlds mind mapping tools.\n\nThere also exists cultural variations in ways of collaborative learning. Research in this area has mainly focused on children in indigenous Mayan communities of the Americas or in San Pedro, Guatemala and European American middle-class communities.\n\nGenerally, researchers have found that children in indigenous Mayan communities such as San Pedro typically learn through keenly observing and actively contributing to the mature activities of their community. This type of learning is characterized by the learner's collaborative participation through multi-modal communication verbal and non-verbal and observations. They are highly engaged within their community through focused observation. Mayan parents believe that children learn best by observing and so an attentive child is seen as one who is trying to learn. It has also been found that these children are extremely competent and independent in self-maintenance at an early age and tend to receive little pressure from their parents.\n\nResearch has found that even when Indigenous Mayan children are in a classroom setting, the cultural orientation of indigenous learners shows that observation is a preferred strategy of learning. Thus children and adults in a classroom setting adopt cultural practice and organize learning collaboratively. This is in contrast to the European-American classroom model, which allocates control to teachers/adults allowing them to control classroom activities.\n\nWithin the European American middle-class communities, children typically do not learn through collaborative learning methods. In the classroom, these children generally learn by engaging in initiation-reply-evaluation sequences. This sequence starts with the teacher initiating an exchange, usually by asking a question. The student then replies, with the teacher evaluating the student's answer. This way of learning fits with European-American middle-class cultural goals of autonomy and independence that are dominant in parenting styles within European-American middle-class culture.\n\nAlthough learning happens in a variety of ways in indigenous communities, collaborative learning is one of the main methods used in indigenous learning styles instead of using European-American approaches to learning. These methods include learning in a horizontal plane where children and adults equally contribute to ideas and activities.\n\nFor example, Mayan people of San Pedro use collaboration in order to build upon one another's ideas and activities. Mayan mothers do not act as teachers when completing a task with their children, but instead collaborate with children through play and other activities. People of this Mayan community use the shared endeavors method more than European-Americans who tend to use the transmit-and-test model more often. The shared endeavors model is when people go off of others ideas and learn from them, while the transmit-and-test model is what is used in most American schools when a teacher gives students information and then tests the students on the information. The shared endeavors model is a form of collaborative learning because everyone learns from one another and are able to hear and share others' ideas.\n\nIn Nocutzepo, Mexico, indigenous heritage families form collective units where it is generally agreed that children and youth engage in adult cooperative household or community economic practices such as food preparation, child care, participating in markets, agriculture, animal herding, and construction to name a few. During planting and harvesting season, entire families are out in the fields together where children usually pitch into the activity with smaller tasks alongside adults; however, are always observant when it comes to activities done by adults, such as driving a tractor or handling an axe. These children learn through imitation, observation, listening, pitching in, and doing activities in a social and cultural context. When children begin to participate in the daily family/community activities, they form a sense of belonging, especially when they collaborate with adults establishing a more mature integration with their family and community. \nIndigenous people of the Americas utilize collaborative learning through their emphasis on role sharing and responsibility sharing within their communities. The Mayan community of San Pedro, Guatemala utilizes flexible leadership that allows children to have an active role in their learning. Children and adults work as cohesive groups when tackling new projects. Collaborative learning is prevalent in Indigenous communities due to the integration of children in the daily lives of the adults. Age is not a determining factor in whether or not individuals are incorporated into collaborative efforts and learning that occurs in indigenous communities.\n\nParticipation of learner is a key component to collaborative learning as it functions as the method by which the learning process occurs. Thus collaborative learning occurs when children and adults in communities switch between \"knowledge performers\" and \"observing helpers\". For example, when parents in an indigenous Mazahua community where assigned the task of organizing children to build a roof over a market stand in such a way that they would learn to do it themselves, parents and children both collaborated on a horizontal structure. Switching between knowledge performer and observing helper, adults and children completed the task peacefully, without assigned roles of educator/student and illustrated that children still took initiative even when adults were still performing.\n\nAdults and children in indigenous communities of the Americas participate in a horizontal organizational structure; therefore when they work together with one another they are reciprocals of each other. This horizontal structure allows for flexible leadership, which is one of the key aspects of collaborative learning. The indigenous communities of the Americas are unique in their collaborative learning because they do not discriminate upon age, instead Indigenous communities of the Americas encourage active participation and flexible leadership roles, regardless of age. Children and adults regularly interchange their roles within their community. In addition, Indigenous communities consider observation to be a part of the collaborative learning process.\n\nCollaborative learning can also be incorporated into university settings. For example, the Intercultural Maya University of Quintana Roo, Mexico, has a system that incorporates elders, such as grandparents to act as tutors and as a resource for students to discuss information and knowledge regarding their own language and culture. The elders give their recommendation at the end of a semester in the decision of passing or failing a student, based on his/her behavior in the community and how well he/she is learning Maya. The system is called IKNAL, a mayan word that implies companionship in the learning and doing process that involves several members of the community.\n\nCollaborative learning varies across the world. The traditional model for learning is instructor based but that model is quickly changing on a global standpoint as countries fight to be at the top of the economy. A country's history, culture, religious beliefs and politics are all aspects of their national identity and these characteristics influence on citizen's view of collaboration in both a classroom and workplace setting.\n\nWhile the empirical research in Japan is still relatively sparse, many language educators have taken advantage of Japan's natural collectivism and experimented with collaborative learning programs More recently, technological advancements and their high adoption rate among students in Japan have made computer supported collaborative learning accessible. Japanese student's value for friendship and their natural inclination towards reciprocity seems to support collaborative learning in Japan.\n\nCollaborative learning is also employed in the business and government sectors. For example, within the federal government of the United States, the United States Agency for International Development (USAID) is employing a collaborative project management approach that focuses on collaborating, learning and adapting (CLA). CLA involves three concepts:\n\n"}
{"id": "51534604", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51534604", "title": "Cynthia Szigeti", "text": "Cynthia Szigeti\n\nCynthia Szigeti (October 26, 1949 – August 10, 2016) was an American comic actress and acting teacher, known for her work at the Groundlings, an improv and sketch comedy troupe and school in Los Angeles, and the ACME Comedy Theatre. Her students included Will Forte, Lisa Kudrow, Joel McHale, Conan O'Brien and Julia Sweeney. Her professional acting credits included \"National Lampoon's European Vacation\", as well as roles in \"Seinfeld\" and \"Curb Your Enthusiasm\".\n\nSzigeti went to Fairfax High School in Los Angeles. She later received her master's degree in acting from the University of California, Los Angeles (UCLA). Szigeti began her career by waitressing at the Pitchell Players improv club after graduating from UCLA. Her work at the club inspired her to enroll in improv classes at The Groundlings, the L.A. improv school, for $45 a month. Szigeti took the classes before successfully auditioning to become a full-time member of The Groundlings' main comedy troupe.\n\nCynthia Szigeti eventually left The Groundlings for The Comedy Store, a comedy club in West Hollywood, where she joined The Comedy Store Players alongside Taylor Negron, Martin Short and Robin Williams. In a 2009 interview, Szigeti spoke of the differences between performing within the comedy troupes of The Groundlings versus The Comedy Club, saying, \"At the Groundlings it was all about wigs, rehearsals and costumes. At the Store, it was immediate, topical and edgy.\"\n\nDuring the 1980s, Szigeti returned to The Groundlings to run the school. She also continued to teach improv, as well as directing and overseeing the training of its acting teachers. In addition to her work at The Groundlings, she also co-founded the ACME Comedy Theatre in 1989, as well as taught at Keep It Real Acting.\n\nSzigeti's improv students at The Groundlings and the ACME Comedy Theatre included Adam Carolla, Will Forte, Joel McHale, Conan O'Brien, Cheri Oteri and Julia Sweeney. Actress Lisa Kudrow, who studied under her at The Groundlings during the 1980s, called Szigeti \"the best thing that happened, on so many levels\" and credited her with changing her perspective on acting. In a 2012 interview with the Archive of American Television, Kudrow spoke of her experience studying under Szigeti, \"She spoke to me in a way that no on else could have. I wasn't going to be OK with a touchy, feely, everyone sort of moan, crazy acting exercise thing. She was, 'There's no time in improv to work up to an emotion! You guys just need to have it [immediately]! It's all pretend anyway!'.\" It was Szigeti who encouraged Kudrow to create her first \"dumb\" or \"airhead\" character, which Kudrow had initially resisted.\n\nOutside of improv, Szigeti accumulated her own numerous film and television credits, which spanned several decades. Her film credits included \"I Never Promised You a Rose Garden\" (1977), \"You Light Up My Life\" (1977), \"The Gong Show Movie\" (1980), \"Repo Man\" (1984), \"The Wrong Guys\" (1988) and \"Up Close and Personal\" (1996). Her television sitcom roles included \"WKRP in Cincinnati\", \"Gimme a Break!\", \"Married... with Children\", \"Who's the Boss?\", \"Empty Nest\", \"The Norm Show\", \"The King of Queens\" and \"Curb Your Enthusiasm\".\n\nMost notably, Szigeti played Jerry Seinfeld's former high school girlfriend in a 1991 episode of Seinfeld called \"The Library\". In the episode, Seinfeld tracks down Szigeti's character to use her as an alibi for a borrowed book which he never returned to the New York Public Library.\n\nSzigeti died from idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis at her home in Los Angeles on August 10, 2016, at the age of 66. Gunnar Todd Rohrbacher, an acting coach, founder of Actors Comedy Studio, and another of Szigeti's former students wrote a tribute to Szigeti, noting, \"She was definitely intimidating, unapologetic, shockingly intelligent, generous, joyful and demanding... She would tell stories that included names like Bruce Springsteen, Robin Williams, Martin Short, Robert Redford and Helen Mirren. If you studied with her, your life was changed, and it was that simple.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "11709090", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11709090", "title": "Deep Tyagi", "text": "Deep Tyagi\n\nDharmendra Kumar Tyagi, better known as Deep Tyagi or DK Tyagi (1928–1969), was an Assistant Commissioner for the Indian Family Planning program until 1969. An early pioneer of family planning in India and elsewhere, he was a champion of the program under the premierships of Jawaharlal Nehru, Lal Bahadur Shastri, and the initial period of Indira Gandhi. He invented the now-pervasive (in India and some other countries) \"Red Triangle\" symbol as a branding effort to familiarize and popularize the idea of family planning.\n\nMany of the mass communication techniques he developed are now used throughout the developing world to combat disease (such as HIV/AIDS) and poverty. Part of the mission statement of the present-day foundation, DKT International, which was named in his honor reads - \"He was 41 years old at the time of his death, but had already made a major contribution to his country’s family planning effort. It was he who was largely responsible for the design and dissemination of a massive communication program that brought awareness and knowledge of family planning to hundreds of millions of Indians. He began his work at a time (1966) when modern contraceptive methods were virtually unknown in rural India. His success in saturating the country with simple, attractive messages and designs (including the Red Triangle, which is now in use in several other countries) overcame age-old communication barriers and greatly increased public awareness of birth control.\"\n\nDeep Tyagi was born in Ratangarh village of Uttar Pradesh in 1928. He died of cancer at the age of 41, in 1969. He had no children.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "51886310", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51886310", "title": "Deutsche Neurowissenschaften-Olympiade", "text": "Deutsche Neurowissenschaften-Olympiade\n\nThe Deutsche Neurowissenschaften-Olympiade (DNO or German Neuroscience Olympiad) is a series of competitions for students in grades 9 to 13, aimed at promoting interest in neuroscience. The competition takes place at two levels: city and national. Each competition is in question and answer format and conducted in English. The winner of the national German Neuroscience Olympiad will represent Germany at the International Brain Bee competition.\n\nThe \"Deutsche Neurowissenschaften-Olympiad\" is part of the International Brain Bee program which oversees more than 150 competitions in over 45 countries each year. The program was founded in 1999 by Dr. Norbert Myslinski in the United States. The program has since expanded beyond the United States.\n\nDr. Julianne McCall established the \"German Brain Bee\" competition in 2011, the first of its kind in Germany. The German Brain Bee takes place in Heidelberg and includes over 100 high schools across Germany.\n\nIn 2015, \"The German Brain Bee\" was renamed the Deutsche Neurowissenschaften-Olympiad and is organized by the Deutsche Neurowissenschaften-Olympiad Association. \n\nIn 2016, the board of the DNO began the process of expanding the competition throughout Germany.\n\nThe motto of DNO is \"Driving Connectivity\", the organization's mission is to motivate and inspire young people to learn about the human brain, foster interest in the various fields of neurosciences and pursuit of careers in basic neuroscience research. Through local and national competitions, summer research schools, practical courses, and other outreach programs DNO would like to encourage national and international exchange among students on their way towards a scientific career. The philosophy of DNO is that through encouraging young students to work together to face new and exciting challenges in neuroscience research, there can be a further understanding of brain functions.\n\nThe competition, which until 2016 has only taken place in Heidelberg, is open to students in grades 9 to 13 with the total number of participants limited to 40-45 students per city. Currently, the German Neuroscience Olympiad is expanding into other cities throughout Germany. In 2017, there will be local student competitions in Berlin, Bonn, and Frankfurt in addition to the finals competition in Heidelberg. Therefore, 135 students are anticipated to participate in the local Neuroscience Olympiads in 2017. \n\nThe top 15 students from each local competition will be invited to the finals, the location of which is rotated each year. The DNO provides travel allowances for a student traveling long distances to participate in each consecutive level of the Olympiad. The competition is divided into 5 parts: two podium sections, where a jury of three professors will ask questions; a short written exam section; a neuroanatomy section with plastic brain models in addition to microscopy slides with real human brain samples; and a patient diagnosis section with patient videos and mock medical history data. The competition is held in English but a jury can assist in German, if necessary. \n\nThe winner of the German Neuroscience Olympiad finals competition receives a trophy and the opportunity to represent Germany at the International Brain Bee, for which flights and accommodation are paid for each winner and a chaperone. The 2nd and 3rd-place winners are also awarded smaller prizes. In the future, DNO aims to provide the top 3 students of each local German Neuroscience Olympiad competition with a chance to do a summer internship in a neuroscience research lab, to allow students to see what the day-to-day research is like.\n\nSource\n\n"}
{"id": "11357700", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11357700", "title": "Digital native", "text": "Digital native\n\nThe term digital native describes a person that grows up in the digital age, rather than acquiring familiarity with digital systems as an adult, as a digital immigrant. Both terms were used as early as 1996 as part of the \"Declaration of the Independence of Cyberspace\".\nThey were popularized by education consultant Marc Prensky in his 2001 article entitled \"Digital Natives, Digital Immigrants\", in which he relates the contemporary decline in American education to educators' failure to understand the needs of modern students. His article posited that \"the arrival and rapid dissemination of digital technology in the last decade of the 20th century\" had changed the way students think and process information, making it difficult for them to excel academically using the outdated teaching methods of the day. In other words, children raised in a digital, media-saturated world, require a media-rich learning environment to hold their attention, and Prensky dubbed these children \"digital natives\".\n\nGlobally, 30 percent of the population born between 1988 and 1998 had used the Internet for over five years as of 2013.\n\n\"Digital Natives, Digital Immigrants\" Marc Prensky defines the term \"digital native\" and applies it to a new group of students enrolling in educational establishments referring to the young generation as \"native speakers\" of the digital language of computers, videos, video games, social media and other sites on the internet. Contextually, his ideas were introduced after a decade of worry over increased diagnosis of children with ADD and ADHD, which itself turned out to be largely overblown. Prensky did not strictly define the digital native in his 2001 article, but it was later, arbitrarily, applied to children born after 1980, because computer bulletin board systems and Usenet were already in use at the time.\n\nThe idea became popular among educators and parents, whose children fell within Prensky's definition of a digital native, and has since been embraced as an effective marketing tool. It is important to note that Prensky's original paper was not a scientific one, and that no empirical data exists to support his claims. However, the concept has been widely addressed in the academic literature since, mainly in education research, but also in health research.\n\nPrensky has since abandoned his digital native metaphor in favor \"digital wisdom\". More recently, the Digital Visitor and Resident idea has been proposed as an alternative to understanding the various ways individuals engage with digital technology.\n\nPeople who were \"born digital\", first appeared in a series of presentations by Josh Spear beginning in May 2007. A Digital Native research project is being run jointly by the Berkman Center for Internet & Society at Harvard Law School and the Research Center for Information Law at the University of St. Gallen in Switzerland. A collaborative research project is being run by Hivos, Netherlands and the Bangalore-based Centre for Internet and Society. The Net Generation Encountering e-learning at university project funded by the UK research councils was completed in March 2010. More recently the Museum of Social Media, launched in 2012, has included an exhibition about \"Digital Natives & Friends.\"\n\nDue to the obvious divide set between digital natives and digital immigrants, sometimes both generations are forced to meet which commonly results in conflicting ideologies of digital technology. The everyday regimen of work-life is becoming more technologically advanced with improved computers in offices, more complicated machinery in industry \"etc.\" With technology moving so fast, it is hard for digital immigrants to keep up. This creates conflicts among older supervisors and managers with the increasingly younger workforce. Similarly, parents clash with their children at home over gaming, texting, YouTube, Facebook and other Internet technology issues. Much of the world's Millennials and Generation Z members are digital natives. According to law professor and educator John Palfrey, there may be substantial differences between digital natives and non digital natives, in terms of how people see relationships and institutions and how they access information. In spite of this, the timetable for training young and old on new technology is about the same.\n\nPrensky states that education is the single largest problem facing the digital world as our digital immigrant instructors, who speak an outdated language (that of the pre-digital age), are struggling to teach a population that speaks an entirely new language. Digital natives have had an increased exposure to technology, which has changed the way they interact and respond to digital devices. In order to meet the unique learning needs of digital natives, teachers need to move away from traditional teaching methods that are disconnected with the way students learn today. For the last 20 years, technology preparation for teachers has been at the forefront of policy. However, Immigrants suffer complications in teaching natives how to understand an environment which is \"native\" to them and foreign to Immigrants. Teachers not only struggle with proficiency levels and their abilities to integrate technology into the classroom, but also, display resistance towards the integration of digital tools. Since technology can be frustrating and complicated at times, some teachers worry about maintaining their level or professionalism within the classroom. Teachers worry about appearing \"unprofessional\" in front of their students. Although technology presents challenges in the classroom, it is still very important for teachers to understand how natural and useful these digital tools are for students.\n\nTo meet the unique learning needs of digital natives, Forzani and Leu suggest that digital tools are able to respond immediately to the natural, exploratory, and interactive learning style of students today. Learning how to use these digital tools not only provides unique learning opportunities for digital natives, but they also provide necessary skills that will define their future success in the digital age. One preference to this problem is to invent computer games to teach digital natives the lessons they need to learn, no matter how serious. This ideology has already been introduced to a number of serious practicalities. For example, piloting an unmanned aerial vehicle (UAV) in the army consists of someone sitting in front of a computer screen issuing commands to the UAV via a hand-held controller which resembles, in detail, the model of controllers that are used to play games on an Xbox 360 game console. (Jodie C Spreadbury, Army Recruiting and Training Division).\n\nGamification as a teaching tool has sparked interest in education, and Gee suggests this is because games have special properties that books cannot offer for digital natives. For instance, gamification provides an interactive environment for students to engage and practice 21st century skills such as collaboration, critical thinking, problem solving, and digital literacy. Gee presents four reasons why gamification provides a distinct way of learning to promote 21st century skills. First, games are based on problem solving and not on ones ability to memorize content knowledge. Second, gamification promotes creativity in digital natives where they are encouraged to think like a designer or modify to redesign games. Third, digital natives are beginning to co-author their games through the choices they make to solve problems and face challenges. Therefore, students' thinking is stimulated to promote metacognition since they have to think about their choices and how they will alter the course and outcome of the game. Lastly, through online gaming, digital natives are able to collaborate and learn in a more social environment. Based on the literature, one can see the potential and unique benefits digital tools have. For example, online games help digital natives meet their unique learning needs. Furthermore, online gaming seems to provide an interactive and engaging environment that promotes the necessary skills digital natives will need to be successful in their future.\n\nNot everyone agrees with the language and underlying connotations of the digital native. The term, by definition, suggests a familiarity with technology that not all children and young adults who would be considered digital natives have; some instead have an awkwardness with technology that not all digital immigrants have. For instance, those on the disadvantaged side of the digital divide lack access to technology. In its application, the concept of the digital native preferences those who grow up with technology as having a special status, ignoring the significant difference between familiarity and creative application.\n\nThe classification of people into digital natives and digital immigrants is controversial. Some digital immigrants surpass digital natives in tech savvy, but there is a belief that early exposure to technology fundamentally changes the way people learn. The term \"digital immigrant\" overlooks the fact that many people born before the digital age were the inventors, designers, developers and first users of digital technology and in this sense could be regarded as the original \"natives\". To confuse the prolific (and arguably superficial) use of digital technology by current adolescents as deep knowledge and understanding is potentially misleading and unhelpful to the discourse. The term also discounts the broader and more holistic knowledge, experience and understandings that older generations may have about digital technologies and their potential place in society. Digital immigrants are believed to be less quick to pick up new technologies than digital natives. This results in the equivalent of a speaking accent when it comes to the way in which they learn and adopt technology. A commonly used example is that a digital immigrant may prefer to print out a document to edit it by hand rather than doing onscreen editing.\n\nThe actual classification of people into immigrants and natives is tricky as the adoption of digital technology hasn't been a unified phenomenon worldwide. For North America, most people born prior to 1980 are considered digital immigrants. Those closer to the cutoff are sometimes called digital intermediates, which means they started using digital technology in their early teens and thus are closer to digital natives in terms of their understanding and abilities.\n\nThe term \"digital native\" is synonymous with the term \"digital inclusion\". Being digitally included means that you are innately able in using a smartphone or computer tablets: modern technology has enabled the non-speaking to speak, the non-hearing to hear and the non-seeing to see. Crucially, there is debate over whether there is any adequate evidence for claims made about \"digital natives\" and their implications for education. , for example, critically review the research evidence and describe some accounts of digital natives as having an academic form of a moral panic. concluded that generation does not explain differences in how learners use technology and that there is no empirical research to support claims made by Prensky and other proponents of the idea of the digital native. Using such a terminology is rather a sign of unfamiliarity and exoticism in relation to digital culture. Of course, nobody is \"born digital\"; as with any cultural technology, such as reading and writing, it is matter of access to education and experience.\n\nIt considers that all youths are digital natives in the modern age. However, this is not the case. It is primarily based on cultural differences and not by age. According to Henry Jenkins (2007), \"Part of the challenge of this research is to understand the dynamics of who exactly is, and who is not, a digital native and what that means.\" There are underlying conflicts on the definition of the term \"digital natives\" and it is wrong to say that all modern age youths are placed in that particular category or that all older adults can be described as digital immigrants. Some adults are more tech savvy than a lot of children, depending on socio-economic standings, personal interests, etc., but as teachers we must include the world outside with which the children are familiar and use it inside the classroom.\n\nThe formulation of \"digital native\" is also challenged by researchers looking at emerging technology landscapes. The current discourse concentrates largely on developed technology and has a particular bias towards white, middle-class youth who have the privilege of access to technology. Nishant Shah (2009) says, \"It is necessary to promote research that grasps that not all Digital Natives are equal. Each context will have certain norms by which digital nativity is understood and experienced. Dismantling the universal Digital Native and considering contextualised Digital Native identities might also help us move away from speaking of the Digital Native as a necessarily elite power-user of technology and understand the identity as a point of departure from earlier technology-mediated identities within those contexts.\" He also suggests that one way of understanding \"digital natives\" is to look at how they use digital technologies to engage with their immediate environments and initiate processes of social and personal change.\n\nIt is possible to argue that digitality is not a birth-right but instead a product of cultural capital. According to its originator, Pierre Bordieu, cultural capital is defined as \"the possession of certain cultural competencies, bodies of cultural knowledge, that provide for distinguished modes of cultural consumption\". Familiarity with technology and ease of use is a form of social capital that allows those who possess it to advance in society. In fact, scholars have commented on the variability of technological literacy in different social groups. In \"Communities, Cultural Capital and the Digital Divide\", Viviana Rojas calls this phenomenon a person's \"techno-disposition\". This familiarity with technology is one of many privileges granted by cultural capital. She defines techno-disposition more explicitly as \"practices, perceptions and attitudes, technical education, awareness of technology, desires for information, job requirements, social relations with community members and community organizations, and geographical location\". One's techno-disposition, not simply one's access to technology, she argues, is at the root of any digital divide.\n\nAs we move into the second decade of the 21st century, others are calling into question Prensky's Digital/Immigrant dichotomy on different grounds. recently conducted a literature review for the UK Higher Education Academy which found that there was no empirical evidence of a single new generation of young students. They argued that complex changes were taking place but there was no evidence of a generation gap. The nature of the metaphor itself is challenged, with White and Le Cornu (2011) drawing attention to the difficulties that a language-based analogy introduces, especially when then linked to age and place. They also highlight the rapid technological advances that have been made in the last ten years, most notably in the advent of social networking platforms. White and Le Cornu therefore propose an alternative metaphor of Visitors and Residents which they suggest more accurately represents the ways in which learners engage with technology in a social networking age.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "7649825", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7649825", "title": "Durham University Electric Motorsport", "text": "Durham University Electric Motorsport\n\nDurham University Electric Motorsport (DUEM) is a student-run team in the United Kingdom that designs and constructs solar powered cars to compete in international competitions. DUEM is the longest running solar car team in the UK and is financed entirely by third party donations and sponsorship.\n\nDurham University Electric Motorsport is based in the university’s School of Engineering, with a team size of around 50 undergraduate students split broadly across mechanical, electrical, electronic and business sub-teams. The team is also strongly supported by graduates and academics within the department with expertise in the fields of solar technology, racing car aerodynamics, direct-drive electrical machines and electrical/hybrid vehicles. Many concepts and features implemented in the vehicles have been developed as part of final year undergraduate projects.\n\nThe team was founded as Durham University Solar Car (DUSC) in 2002, and it built its first vehicle in 2004. DUSC’s first competitive event was the 2008 North American Solar Challenge in which they finished 14th out of 26 competitors, earning the “Best Rookie Team” award. They were the only British team to compete. DUSC also competed in the 2011 Veolia World Solar Challenge race across Australia, qualifying in the top ten & then finishing 33rd out of 42 entrants. \n\nIn 2014 Durham University Solar Car combined with Durham University Formula Student to create Durham University Electric Motorsport (DUEM). DUEM developed a new solar powered vehicle called DUSC 2015, paying homage to the design work carried out while the team was still known as DUSC - DUSC 2015 competed in the 2015 Bridgestone World Solar Challenge.\n\nIn 2017, the team headed back to Australia to compete once more with a modified version of DUSC 2015, showing an improvement in performance and completing more than 1000km on solar power.\n\nDUEM also participates in local community and awareness outreach events, including touring schools and museum exhibitions to promote science, technology and engineering. In 2010, DUEM (then DUSC) ran a successful demonstration event with Cambridge University Eco Racing (CUER).\n\nThe steel space frame chassis was designed using finite element analysis software. The chassis is strong enough to withstand a heavy impact, whilst also being as light as possible. The suspension consists of racing shock absorbers, with a conventional double wishbone arrangement at the front and a trailing arm at the rear. Special brake calipers are used, which retract to ensure there are no frictional losses when the brakes are not applied. Specialist solar car tyres are employed to reduce rolling resistance.\n\nA combination of high-efficiency silicon solar cells and maximum power point trackers are used to extract the maximum possible power from the available solar energy and feed it into a lithium iron phosphate battery pack. The vehicle is driven by a specially designed axial flux wheel motor via a custom controller, resulting in higher efficiency and less transmission loss than conventional electric motors.\n\nThe vehicle makes use of a telemetry system operating the CAN protocol to communicate real-time vehicle data over a radio link to a support vehicle. Using this data, the driver may make control adjustments to the vehicle to account for the current performance of the electrical package.\n\nSubstantially the same car was raced both as DUSC2008 across North America and as DUSC2011 across Australia. The major changes between the two are that in 2008 a chain drive was used instead of the in wheel motor, lead acid batteries were used instead of lithium iron, and a commercial solar array was used instead of in-house custom encapsulated panels. There were also numerous other minor changes.\n\nDUSC 2015 is a Challenger Class solar car designed to compete in the 2015 Bridgestone World Solar Challenge. It is the first vehicle built by DUEM to feature a carbon fibre monocoque, offering significant weight savings over earlier spaceframe designs. Extensive finite element analysis was performed on the chassis to optimise its design and crash safety. The car uses a 4-wheeled catamaran configuration, designed to have minimal frontal area to reduce drag.\n\nThe car's front suspension is a duolever design, chosen for its favourable packaging requirements. Carbon trailing arm rear suspension is used to reduce unsprung mass. Industrial hydraulic retracting brake calipers are used to minimise mechanical power losses. DUSC 2015 runs on specialist Schwalbe Energiser S tyres, featuring a solar car specific low rolling resistance compound.\n\nDUSC 2015 has a 6 m solar array, using high-efficiency cells from Gochermann Solar Technology. The array is capable of providing 1.4 kW at peak sunlight, which can drive the motor directly or feed excess power into the lithium iron phosphate battery pack.\n\nThe car uses a bespoke in-hub brushless motor designed and manufactured in Durham University. The axial flux machine is a derivative of a concept first designed in 2011, optimised to give a peak efficiency of 98%, and develops a maximum power of 5 kW. The machine drives the rear left wheel of the vehicle only, which is made possible by the vehicle's asymmetric weight distribution.\n\nTo capture as much telemetry data as possible, custom circuitry termed 'sensor nodes' were developed. Sensor nodes are designed so they can all communicate to each other across the length of the vehicle, as well as each individual node being able to interface with over 20 different sensors each. This also allows some data to be relayed to the driver via the dashboard.\n\nThe 2017 car from DUEM, simply called 'DUSC', is a heavily modified version of DUSC 2015. While several aspects (such as the monocoque, powertrain, and wheels) remained unchanged from the 2015 car, changes were made both to improve performance and comply with new regulations introduced for Challenger-class vehicles in the 2017 Bridgestone World Solar Challenge.\n\nTo improve handling characteristics and stability, the car uses a new version of the duolever front suspension. While this contributes an overall increase in weight, other changes such as optimizing the trailing arm shape mitigate the effects. To reduce drag, wheel covers are used on the existing rims.\n\nIn line with 2017 regulations, the solar array area of DUSC is 4 m (down from 6 m) using the same cells as DUSC 2015. This feeds the motor (largely unchanged from the previous iteration), as well as a new lithium-ion battery, which represents a significant weight saving.\n\nThe car uses a new driver dashboard, allowing the driver to obtain real-time telemetry information directly as well as improving layout and ergonomics. Changes were also made to the exterior lights to comply with regulations, increasing indicator and brakelight visibility.\n\nFinancially DUEM relies solely on sponsorship. The team's current sponsors are:\n\nFormer sponsors include:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "50919563", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50919563", "title": "Ebot (microcontroller)", "text": "Ebot (microcontroller)\n\nEbot () is a microcontroller unit invented by two Kuwaiti engineers and has received many national and international prizes.\n\nEbot is a mini integrated digital computer that consists of a processor, RAM and input/output peripheral devices. Unlike processors used in PCs, Ebot was designed for embedded systems to control operations.\n\nThe Ebot microcontroller was built using an (ATMEGA1284P) integrated circuit from the (AVR 8-bit) family, which uses 8 bits to build the commands.\n\nThe diagram consists of two layers. The first layer has (ATMEGA1284P) pin functions, the second has the Arduino-compatible pins (bootloader), and the second layer has the names of the (Ebot) pins. The pin names and placement have been modified to suit the unit’s inputs and outputs ports, which will facilitate the programming process for the user.\n\nEbot IDE was developed by CreativeBits Co., and was designed to teach programming in a simple way. The software allows users to program using a command-line interface or a graphical interface, with a Data Lab to analyze the records, a serial Monitor to view current readings, and an PC control Interface to add more advanced options.\n\nEbot IDE works like a magnet, where the user drags one component from one of the menus on the left (Input, Output, Flow) and drops it at the top of the graphical page. When dragging the next component, it will be attached to the previous one, and so on.\n\n15 schools (primary and secondary) have been teaching robotics in Kuwait, and by the 2016 academic year it was planned to be taught on a wider scale in all state schools, according to the Education Minister Bader Hamad Al-Essa. Certain errors will have to be rectified after they emerged during teaching it in some schools.\n\nRobotics competitions offer a chance to encourage students to build their own solutions as a team to real-world problems using science and maths. \n\nThe whole system has separate certifications in each department to fulfill all customer and business requirements.\nImages of the certificates and test reports are shown below:\n\n"}
{"id": "3320352", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3320352", "title": "Escuela Secundaria Técnica Química Industrial y Minera", "text": "Escuela Secundaria Técnica Química Industrial y Minera\n\nla Escuela Secundaria Tecnica Quimica Industrial y Minera - ESTQIM (Technical, Chemical, Industrial and Mining High School), Argentine high-school located in Malargüe, Mendoza Province. The school currently has 800 students, and it is one of the most popular schools in the city, competing against the schools ISMA and Aborigen Americano.\n\nThe school offers a curriculum mainly based on chemistry, industrial, and other technical subjects. Students must choose an orientation after their 3rd year, for either chemistry (3 more years) or tourism (2 more years). Chemistry involves technical and engineering classes. while tourism is more like a normal baccalaureate with some inclinations towards tourism and advertising.\n"}
{"id": "48696678", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48696678", "title": "Ethiopian Institute of Architecture, Building Construction and City Development", "text": "Ethiopian Institute of Architecture, Building Construction and City Development\n\nThe Ethiopian Institute of Architecture, Building Construction and City Development (EiABC) is an institute in Addis Ababa.\n\nWhen founded in 1954 the initial educational scheme aimed to offer a three-year diploma program in building engineering. This was shortly upgraded to a four-year program leading to a BSc. Degree in Building Engineering. In 1969, the Building College merged with the college of engineering and formed the Faculty of Technology under Addis Ababa University, and remained as such until 2009. on March 6, 2010, the institute was reformed into its current state as the Ethiopian institute of architecture building construction and city development.\n\nWith a nationwide effort to establish an internationally recognized curriculum in Architecture, engineering and urban planning disciplines and to start a unified bachelor and Master system in Ethiopia, in 2005, the institute went through several underlying changes. With a partnership with the ETH in Zürich, Switzerland new academic structures and capacity building programs started. After the development of a strategy to establish 'Institutes of Technologies' in Ethiopia, a new scientific director was installed directly from ETHZ.\n\nAs of September 14, 2014, the institute reports to a supervisory board chaired by Mekuria Haile, Minister of Urban Development and Construction management (MoUDC). The board in turn reports to the Addis Ababa University board.\n\nEiABC is located on the Jimma Road next to the Federal High Court in Lideta Sub City. It comprises classrooms, laboratories, workshops, sport facilities, design studios, cafeterias, libraries, research ground and also offices for staff and students.\n\nThree different bachelor programs are offered as the institute. Namely, Architecture, Construction Technology Management and Urban and Regional Planning\n\nThe master's program is designed to enable and prepare students both for the international and national labor market. The masters Programs at EiABC include:\n\nThe master's program have a duration of 1.5/2 years. The requirements for admission into the master's program include Qualified Bachelor with GPA above 3.0 and an Entrance Exam.\n\nThe institute's first doctoral program is on \"Environmental planning\". It addresses a diversity of environmental issues included but not limited to quality, habitat conservation, water quality and natural resources. The second doctoral program, launched in 2014, is \"Urban and Regional Planning\". It deals with issues of planning, management, development, policies and strategies related to the urban and regional levels.\n\n"}
{"id": "58615229", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58615229", "title": "Faculty Research Awards", "text": "Faculty Research Awards\n\nFaculty Research Awards 2018 were awarded to academic researchers across 24 disciplines by the Indian Union Minister of Human Resource Development Prakash Javadekar on 20 March in New Delhi. The awards were hosted by news magazine Careers360. The awards recognize the efforts of those in the field of academic research in India. The award carries a cash prize and a citation.\n\nThe awardees were chosen on the basis of their academic and research output in Scopus indexed journals, citation index and h-index for the period 2015-17.\n"}
{"id": "37599545", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37599545", "title": "Florida Association of Band Directors", "text": "Florida Association of Band Directors\n\nThe Florida Association of Band Directors (FABD) was an organization dedicated to provide the music schools of predominantly black colleges in Florida, United States, with a feeder system from 1941 until 1966, when the organization merged with the Florida Bandmasters Association (FBA).\n\nPrior to 1940 and two years thereafter, there were no programs in the public schools of Florida offering instrumental music to the African-American children in those schools. As a result, the schools of higher education (such as Florida A&M College, Edward Waters College, Bethune-Cookman College, and Florida Memorial College) had no feeder programs for the development of bands.\n\nIn 1941, Leander A. Kirksey (band and orchestra director) and J. Harold Brown (director of the music department at Florida A&M College) called a meeting of several young graduates from the music department of Florida A&M College. George Hill (employed at Crooms Academy in Sanford), Alvin Downing (employed at Gibbs High School in St. Petersburg), Raymond Sheppard (employed at Booker T. Washington High in Pensacola), Michael Rodriguez (employed at Booker T. Washington Jr. High in Tampa), and Guy Glover (employed at Dorsey High School in Broward) met on April 10–12, 1941 to organize an association whose chief purpose would be to provide feeders for the instrumental program at Florida A&M and other predominately black colleges in Florida. The association was named the Florida Association of Band Directors.\n\nIts membership grew to more than thirty band directors, teaching several thousand students. It was merged with the FBA in 1966.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "35067930", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35067930", "title": "Fountas and Pinnell reading levels", "text": "Fountas and Pinnell reading levels\n\nFountas & Pinnell reading levels (commonly referred to as \"Fountas & Pinnell\") are a system of reading levels developed by Irene Fountas and Gay Su Pinnell to support their guided reading method. Reading text is classified according to various parameters, such as word count, number of different words, number of high-frequency words, sentence length, sentence complexity, word repetitions, illustration support, etc. While classification is guided by these parameters, syllable type, an important consideration in beginning reading, is not considered as part of the leveling system. Small books containing a combination of text and illustrations are then provided to educators for each level. \n\nWhile young children display a wide distribution of reading skills, each level is tentatively associated with a school grade. Some schools adopt target reading levels for their pupils. This is the grade-level equivalence chart recommended by Fountas & Pinnell.\n\nAlternative classifications of reading difficulties have been developed by various authors (Reading Recovery levels, DRA levels, Basal Levels, Lexile Levels, etc.).\n"}
{"id": "32426105", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32426105", "title": "Grafička škola u Zagrebu", "text": "Grafička škola u Zagrebu\n\nGrafička škola u Zagrebu (Graphics School in Zagreb) is a public high school in Zagreb, Croatia. The school has 550 students, and 70 employees of which 54 are teachers.\n\nIn 1886 two printers completed their apprenticeship. Eight years later in 1894 a group of 19 book printers finished their education. By decision of the Teachers' Council 1894 is considered the year of establishment of the school.\n\nBy the year 1945 more than 1500 students finished school.\n\nThe first school building was located in Gundulićeva 10. Soon the school got a part of a building where Museum of Arts and Crafts is located today. The main directorate of the graphics industry donated printing machinery, devices and furniture to the school. It moved to the current location Getaldićeva 2 in 1951.\n\n11000 students have graduated to date.\n\nThe school has changed its name many times:\n\nThe school has seven educational programs:\n"}
{"id": "451914", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=451914", "title": "Grassroots", "text": "Grassroots\n\nA grassroots movement is one which uses the people in a given district, region, or community as the basis for a political or economic movement. Grassroots movements and organizations use collective action from the local level to effect change at the local, regional, national, or international level. Grassroots movements are associated with bottom-up, rather than top-down decision making, and are sometimes considered more natural or spontaneous than more traditional power structures. Grassroots movements, using self-organization, encourage community members to contribute by taking responsibility and action for their community. Grassroots movements utilize a variety of strategies from fundraising and registering voters, to simply encouraging political conversation. Goals of specific movements vary, but the movements are consistent in their focus on increasing mass participation in politics. These political movements may begin as small and at the local level, but grassroots politics as Cornel West contends are necessary in shaping progressive politics as they bring public attention to regional political concerns.\n\nThe idea of grassroots is often conflated with participatory democracy. The Port Huron Statement, a manifesto seeking a more democratic society, says that to create a more equitable society, \"the grass roots of American Society\" need to be the basis of civil rights and economic reform movements. The terms can be distinguished in that grassroots often refers to a specific movement or organization, whereas participatory democracy refers to the larger system of governance.\n\nThe earliest origins of the use of \"grass roots\" as a political metaphor are obscure. In the United States, an early use of the phrase \"grassroots and boots\" was thought to have been coined by Senator Albert Jeremiah Beveridge of Indiana, who said of the Progressive Party in 1912, \"This party has come from the grass roots. It has grown from the soil of people's hard necessities\".\n\nIn a 1907 newspaper article about Ed Perry, vice-chairman of the Oklahoma state committee, the phrase was used as follows: \"In regard to his political views Mr. Perry has issued the following terse platform: 'I am for a square deal, grass root representation, for keeping close to the people, against ring rule and for fair treatment.'\" A 1904 news article on a campaign for possible Theodore Roosevelt running mate Eli Torrance quotes a Kansas political organizer as saying: \"Roosevelt and Torrance clubs will be organized in every locality. We will begin at the grass roots\".\n\nSince the early 1900s, grassroots movements have been widespread both in the United States and in other countries. Major examples include parts of the American Civil Rights Movement of the 1950s and 1960s, Brazil's land equity movement of the 1970s and beyond, the Chinese rural democracy movement of the 1980s, and the German peace movement of the 1980s.\n\nA particular instantiation of grassroots politics in the American Civil Rights Movement was the 1951 case of William Van Til working on the integration of the Nashville Public Schools. Van Til worked to create a grassroots movement focused on discussing race relations at the local level. To that end, he founded the Nashville Community Relations Conference, which brought together leaders from various communities in Nashville to discuss the possibility of integration. In response to his attempts to network with leadership in the black community, residents of Nashville responded with violence and scare tactics. However, Van Til was still able to bring blacks and whites together to discuss the potential for changing race relations, and he was ultimately instrumental in integrating the Peabody College of Education in Nashville. Furthermore, the desegregation plan proposed by Van Til's Conference was implemented by Nashville schools in 1957. This movement is characterized as grassroots because it focused on changing a norm at the local level using local power. Van Til worked with local organizations to foster political dialogue and was ultimately successful.\n\nThe Brazilian Landless Workers Movement (MST) was founded in the 1970s and has grown into an international organization. The MST focused on organizing young farmers and their children in fighting for a variety of rights, most notably the right to access land. The movement sought organic leaders and used strategies of direct action such as land occupations. It largely maintained autonomy from the Brazilian government. The MST traces its roots to discontent arising from large land inequalities in Brazil in the 1960s. Such discontent gained traction, particularly after Brazil became a democracy in 1985. The movement focused especially on occupying land that was considered unproductive, thus showing that it was seeking overall social benefit. In the 1990s the influence of the MST grew tremendously following two mass killings of protestors. Successful protests were those in which the families of those occupying properties receiving plots of land. It is worth noting that although the grassroots efforts of the MST were successful in Brazil when they were tried by the South African Landless People's Movement (LPM) in 2001 they were not nearly as successful. Land occupations in South Africa were politically contentious and did not achieve the positive results seen by the MST.\n\nThe National People's Congress was a grassroots democratic reform movement that came out of the existing Chinese government in 1987. It encouraged grassroots elections in villages all around China with the express purpose of bringing democracy to the local level of government. Reforms took the form of self-governing village committees that were elected in a competitive, democratic process. Xu Wang from Princeton University called the Congress mutually empowering for the state and the peasantry in that the state was given a renewed level of legitimacy by the democratic reforms, and the peasantry was given far more political power. This manifested itself in increased voting rate, particularly for the poor, and increased levels of political awareness according to Wang's research. One example of the increased accountability from the new institutions was a province in which villagers gave 99,000 suggestions to the local government. Ultimately, 78,000 of these were adopted indicating a high rate of governmental responsiveness. This movement is considered grassroots because it focuses on systematically empowering the people. This focus manifested itself in the democratic institutions that focused on engaging the poor and in reform efforts that sought to make the government more responsive to the will of the people.\n\nAnother instance of a historical grassroots movement was the 1980s German peace movement. The movement traces its roots to the 1950s movement opposing nuclear armament, or the \"Ban the Bomb\" Movement. In the 1980s, the movement became far bigger. In 1981, 800 organizations pushed the government to reduce the military size. The push culminated in a protest by 300,000 people in the German capital Bonn. The movement was successful in producing a grassroots organization, the Coordination Committee, which directed the efforts of the peace movements in the following years. The committee ultimately failed to decrease the size of the German military, but it laid the groundwork for protests of the Iraq war in the 2000s. Further, the movement started public dialogue about policy directed at peace and security. Like the Civil Rights movement, the German Peace movement is considered grassroots because it focused on political change starting at the local level.\nA further example of grassroots in the 1980s was the Citizens Clearinghouse for Natural Waste, an organization that united communities and various grassroots groups in America in support of more environmentally friendly methods of dealing with natural waste. The movement focused especially on African American communities and other minorities. It sought to bring awareness to those communities, and alter the focus from moving problematic waste to changing the system that produced such waste. The movement is considered grassroots because it utilized strategies that derived their power from the affected communities. For example, in North Carolina, African American communities lay down in front of dump trucks to protest their environmental impact. The success of these movements largely remains to be seen.\n\nGrassroots movements use tactics that build power from local and community movements. Grassroots Campaigns, a non-profit organization dedicated to creating and supporting grassroots movements in America says that grassroots movements aim to raise money, build organizations, raise awareness, build name recognition, to win campaigns, and to deepen political participation. Grassroots movements work toward these and other goals via strategies focusing on local participation in either local or national politics.\n\nGrassroots organizations derive their power from the people, thus their strategies seek to engage ordinary people in political discourse to the greatest extent possible. Below is a list of strategies considered to be grassroots because of their focus on engaging the populace.\n\n\nSocial media's prominence in political and social activism has skyrocketed in the last decade. Influencers on apps like Vine, Instagram, and Twitter have all becoming hot spots for growing grassroots movements as platforms to inform, excite, and organize.\n\nAnother influential way media is used to organize is through the use of hashtags to group together postings from across the network under a unifying message. Some hashtags that stirred up larger media coverage include the #MeToo movement, started in 2017 in response to sexual assault allegations against prominent figures in the American entertainment industry. Grassroots movements also use hashtags to organize on a large scale on social media. Some examples include:\n\nGrassroots activism partnered with social media may be shaping the way in which citizens organize, engage, and protest in a intensely digital age.\n\n\nThe junior United States Senator and former Representative from Vermont, Bernie Sanders, formally announced his 2016 presidential campaign on May 26, 2015 on the foundation of reversing \"obscene levels\" of income and wealth inequality. Sanders stated that he would run an issue-oriented and positive campaign, focusing his efforts on getting corporate money out of politics, raising taxes on the wealthy, guaranteeing tuition-free higher education, incorporating a single-payer healthcare system, fighting against climate change, and other key issues.\n\nSenator Sanders sparked a grassroots movement by presenting himself as honest, committed, and a genuine politician. Sanders didn't have the resources to run a massive presidential campaign across the United States, so he utilized passionate volunteer organizers across the nation to build the movement. Millions inspired by Sanders were able to elevate the campaign to challenge the Democratic front-runner, former Secretary of State Hillary Clinton, before ultimately losing. Sanders used his grassroots campaign to receive more than 7 million individual contributions averaging $27, effectively breaking Barack Obama's previous individual contribution record in 2008.\n\nIn 2015 the refugee crisis became front-page news across the world. Affected by images of the plight of refugees arriving and travelling across Europe, the grassroots aid movement (otherwise known as the people-to-people, or people solidarity movement), consisting of thousands of private individuals with no prior NGO experience, began in earnest to self-organise and form groups taking aid to areas of displaced persons. The first wave of early responders reached camps in Calais and Dunkirk in August 2015 and joined forces with existing local charities supporting the inhabitants there. Other volunteers journeyed to support refugees across the Balkans, Macedonia, and the Greek islands. Grassroots aid filled voids and saved lives by plugging gaps in the system between governments and existing charities.\n\nThe Axis of Justice (AofJ) is a not-for-profit group co-founded by Tom Morello and Serj Tankian. It's intended purpose it to promote social justice by connecting musicians and music enthusiasts to progressive grass roots ideals. The group appears at music festivals; the most prominent being Lollapalooza in 2003. The Axis of Justice most regularly appears whenever the bands System of a Down or Audioslave are performing. The group also has a podcast on XM Satellite radio and KPFK (90.7 FM), a Pacifica Radio station in Los Angeles, California. The AofJ's mission is to connect local music fans to organization, local and global, aimed at effectively working on issues like peace, human rights, and economic justice within communities.\n\nGrassroots movements are usually criticized because the recent rise in social media has resulted in leaderless and horizontal movements. Some argue that social movements without a clear hierarchy are far less effective and are more likely to die off.\n\nAstroturfing refers to political action that is meant to appear to be grassroots, that is spontaneous and local, but in fact comes from an outside organization, such as a corporation or think tank.\n\nIt is named after AstroTurf, a brand of artificial grass. Astroturfing means pretending to be a grassroots movement, when in reality the agenda and strategy are controlled by a hidden, non-grassroots organization. In this manner, a faux show is presented, consisting of robotic individuals pretending to be voicing their own opinions.\n\nAn example of astroturfing was the ExxonMobil Corporation's push to disseminate false information about climate change. ExxonMobil was largely successful both in disseminating the information through think tanks and in disguising the true nature of the think tanks.\n\nMore controversial examples of astroturfing often exhibit some characteristics of a real grassroots organization, but also characteristics of astroturf. Many of President Obama's efforts, for example, have been deemed grassroots because of their focus on involving the electorate at large. Critics of Obama have argued that some of these methods are in fact astroturfing because they believe that Obama faked the grassroots support. For example, the Reason Foundation has accused Obama of planting astroturf supporters in town hall meetings. Many movements and organizations must be placed on a continuum between grassroots and astroturf instead of labeled entirely as one or the other. For example, Australia's Convoy of No Confidence, a movement seeking to force an early election in 2011, incorporated elements of grassroots infrastructure in its reliance on the anger and discontentment of the participants. It also had elements of astroturf, namely the large extent to which it relied on support from political elites in the opposition party.\nThe Tea Party, a conservative force in American politics that began in 2009, is also a controversial example of astroturfing. Critics, notably including Democrats President Barack Obama and Former Speaker of the House Nancy Pelosi, dismissed the Tea Party as Astroturf. They say that the movement purports to represent large swaths of America when in reality it comes from a select few billionaires seeking policies favorable to themselves. The Tea Party has defended itself, arguing that it comes out of broad popular support and widespread anger at the Democratic Party and disenchantment with the GOP. Defenders of the Tea Party cite polls that find substantial support, indicating that the movement has some basis in grassroots politics. Critics point to the corporate influence on the Tea Party, which they believe indicates that the movement is more top-down than the grassroots rhetoric would suggest. The Tea Party can be considered grassroots to the extent that it comes from the people, but it is considered astroturfing to the extent that it is shaped by corporations and particularly wealthy individuals.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "30920065", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30920065", "title": "Hawaii International Conference on Education", "text": "Hawaii International Conference on Education\n\nThe Hawaii International Conference on Education (HICE) is an annual conference for Education academics and professionals currently sponsored by Pepperdine University, The University of Louisville, California State University, East Bay, and New Horizons in Education. The conference provides a platform for panel discussions and the presentation of peer-reviewed education research papers. Papers selected for presentation appear in the \"Proceedings of the Hawaii International Conference on Education\", which have grown to constitute nearly 45,000 pages of refereed material in the 9-year history of the conference.\n\nThe first HICE took place in 2003. The conference now attracts over 1100 representatives from over 40 countries.\n\nPast and future HICE conferences include:\n\n"}
{"id": "2322976", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2322976", "title": "Head girl and head boy", "text": "Head girl and head boy\n\nHead boy and head girl are roles of prominent representative student responsibility. The terms are commonly used in the British education system and in private schools throughout the Commonwealth organisations.\n\nIn some British schools, the pupil body elects a head boy and/or a head girl from the pupils/students. Head boys and head girls are usually responsible for representing the school at events, and therefore must be able to make public speeches. They also serve as a good role model for students, and share pupils' ideas with the school's leadership. They may also be expected to lead fellow prefects in their duties. Deputy head boys and girls may also be appointed, taking on the day-to-day management of the prefects in some institutions, as well as looking after the school and creating a link between teachers and pupils. Some schools in the UK have abolished the titles of head boy and head girl entirely, and replaced them with a single role of \"head pupil\".\n\nThe process of selection of a head boy and/or a head girl varies according to school. At most, the student body of the school will have to vote for the heads. The votes would then inform the Heads of School's decisions. This is often preceded with an interview (and more currently an action plan for the academic year).\n\nSome schools in Hong Kong, India, Pakistan, Sri Lanka, Singapore, UAE and Malaysia, and many in the Commonwealth Caribbean, as well as South Africa, New Zealand and Canada, follow the same system as that in the United Kingdom, having a head girl and head boy or head prefect, a vice-head girl/boy, prefects, house captains, monitors and class representatives. The head girl and boy assist the teachers and administration of the school. Nigerian and Ghanaian schools follow a similar system although some schools appoint a head prefect or senior prefect and assistant senior prefect. Another term used is \"Senior Ring\" (for boys) and \"Senior Pin\" (for girls), which is used in some schools such as Aden Bowman Collegiate in Saskatoon, Saskatchewan.\n\nIn Australia, the system is much the same as that of the United Kingdom. Almost all public secondary schools will have a student council with each year group having elected representatives. The head boy and head girl are generally the \"chair\" of this council and will represent the school on a government or community level and will represent the students at the school level.\n\nSchool president is a similar position; these are commonly found in elementary and secondary schools in the United States and Canada and may or may not necessarily be gender-specific.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "28826168", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28826168", "title": "Henri Velandia", "text": "Henri Velandia\n\nHenri Velandia (sometimes styled as Henry Velandia) (born July 20, 1983) is a Venezuelan dancer. He is most notable for his performance on season 1 of the Univision television program Mira Quién Baila ('Look Who's Dancing'). He is the founder and lead instructor of HotSalsaHot, a salsa dance school located in Princeton, NJ.\n\nMira Quién Baila (MQB) debuted on Sunday, September 12, 2010 at 8 p.m. EST and was viewed by an estimated 8.8 million people. On September 8, 2010, Chevrolet, Target and AT&T were announced as the lead corporate sponsors of the program. Henri performed with Jackie Guerrido, weather anchor and journalist, and placed second overall.\n\nVelandia founded HotSalsaHot, a salsa school in the central New Jersey area in 2005.\n\nHenri performed at the Miami Salsa Congress in Miami, FL, on August 6, 2010. HSH students performed there at the semi-professional level on August 7, 2010. On April 18, 2010, Henri and his sister Claudia received second place in the open division at the College Showdown Latin Dance Competition at Drexel University in Philadelphia. Henri also performs and trains in modern dance. Velandia performed at Dancers in the Square in Princeton, NJ, on July 16, 2010 in a piece choreographed by Marie Alonzo Snyder. The performance was reviewed by Princeton student Joshua J. Vandiver, who Velandia met in 2006 and married in Connecticut on 29 August 2010.\n\nVelandia's application for a work visa later that year was denied and he was threatened with deportation despite being the spouse of a U.S. citizen because his marriage is not recognised at a federal level due to the Defense of Marriage Act (DOMA). This case was taken up by LGBT rights activists campaigning against DOMA and the non-recognition of state-sanctioned same-sex marriages for immigration purposes.\n\nAfter a protracted battle in which Vandiver unsuccessfully attempted to obtain a green card for Velandia, Velandia's deportation was cancelled and he received formal notification of this on 29 June 2011.\n\n"}
{"id": "36951165", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36951165", "title": "Hindu College (Cove and John, Guyana)", "text": "Hindu College (Cove and John, Guyana)\n\nThe Hindu College (formerly the Swami Purnananda Secondary School) is a Hindu secondary school in Cove and John in the Demerara-Mahaica region (Region 4) of Guyana.\n\nThe Hindu College was founded in 1957 by Swami Purnananda - the Hindu leader who founded the Guyana Sevashran Sangha movement in the mid-twentieth century. In 2010, the college recorded a 100% pass-rate for students taking the Caribbean Secondary Education Certificate (CSEC). In 2010, the Hindu College received a $300,000 donation to fund the establishment of a learning resource centre that was named the Zara Learning Centre.\n"}
{"id": "13840024", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13840024", "title": "International Max Planck Research School for Molecular Biology", "text": "International Max Planck Research School for Molecular Biology\n\nInternational Max Planck Research School for Molecular Biology, also known as IMPRS for Molecular Biology, is a 1.5 years MSc program or a 4-year PhD program. The first year in both graduate tracks is the same and the students are studying together. The curriculum consists of intensive theoretical lectures covering all major fields of the molecular biosciences. Each lecture is followed by a tutorial for in-depth discussion of the topics covered. The practical education consists of 3 months of 2-day methods courses and three 2-month lab rotation projects. All practical work is done in different research laboratories in Göttingen. After an examination at the end of the first year, based on the final grades it is possible to continue towards a MSc or PhD, or PhD with integrated MSc degrees. There are about 20 students accepted each year selected on a highly competitive basis from applicants from all over the world. The IMPRS for Molecular Biology was one of the founding member members (along with the IMPRS for Neurosciences) and is part of the Göttingen Graduate School for Neurosciences and Molecular Biosciences (GGNB). Every year students from the graduate program are organizing the renowned international PhD symposium Horizons in Molecular Biology.\n\nThe IMPRS's home town is Göttingen and the participating institutions in this program are:\n\n"}
{"id": "3484898", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3484898", "title": "Legal recognition of sign languages", "text": "Legal recognition of sign languages\n\nThe legal recognition of sign languages differs widely. In some countries, the national sign language is an official state language, whereas in others it has a protected status in certain areas such as education.\n\nExtending legal recognition is one of the major concerns of the international Deaf community, however, symbolic recognition is no guarantee for an effective improvement of the life of sign language users, and it has been argued that sign languages should be recognized and supported not merely as an accommodation for the disabled, but as the communication medium of language communities.\n\nAuslan was recognised by the Australian Government as a \"community language other than English\" and the preferred language of the Deaf community in policy statements in 1987 and 1991. This recognition does not ensure any provision of services in Auslan, but use of Auslan in Deaf education and provision of Auslan/English interpreters is becoming more common.\n\nAustrian Sign Language (Österreichische Gebärdensprache, ÖGS) was recognised by the Austrian Parliament in 2005. On 1 September 2005 the Austrian Constitution was amended to include a new article: „§8 (3) Die Österreichische Gebärdensprache ist als eigenständige Sprache anerkannt. Das Nähere bestimmen die Gesetze.“ (\"Austrian Sign Language is recognised as independent language. The laws will determine the details.\")\nFor further information please contact the Austrian Deaf Association: http://www.oeglb.at\n\nKrausneker, Verena (2005) Österreichs erste Minderheitensprache, in: STIMME von und für Minderheiten # 56\nKrausneker, Verena (2006) taubstumm bis gebärdensprachig. Die österreichische Gebärdensprachgemeinschaft aus soziolinguistischer Perspektive. Verlag Drava\n\nThe Parliament of French-speaking Belgium recognised LSFB (French-Belgian Sign Language) in a decree of October 2003. This recognition entails:\n\nIn \"Décret relatif à la reconnaissance de la langue des signes\" (Decree on the recognition of the sign language), from three possible legal interpretations of the term 'recognition', the following one was retained: \"It concerns a symbolic recognition that goes hand in hand with a general measure, permitting every minister to take action in fields relative to his authority.\"\n\nFlemish Sign Language was recognised on 2006-04-26 by the Flemish Parliament. This recognition entails:\nThis recognition was accelerated by the most successful petition ever with the Flemish Parliament and the presence of a Deaf member of parliament, Helga Stevens, and her interpreters in the Flemish Parliament.\n\nThe Brazilian Sign Language (LIBRAS) was legally recognized in 2002 but can't replace written Portuguese; the law was regulated in 2005. The language must be taught as a part of the education and speech and language pathology curricula, and law also mandates that LIBRAS be an elective subject as part of every other undergraduate course. LIBRAS teachers, instructors and translators are recognized professionals. Schools and health services must provide access (\"include\") to deaf people.\n\nSection Fourteen of the Canadian Charter of Rights and Freedoms specifies that an accused person who does not understand the language in which his or her trial is carried out, or is deaf, is entitled to an interpreter.\n\nIn several of Canada's provinces (Manitoba in 1988, Alberta in 1990, Ontario in 1993), ASL is an officially recognised minority language with legally embedded rights.\n\nOntario recognised ASL and LSQ as a language in which the Deaf can be taught when it altered its Education Act in 1993.\nOntario formally recognised ASL in 2007 attributing to it the rights of fellow minority languages.\n\nQuestion Period in the House of Commons of Canada is interpreted in both Quebec Sign Language and American Sign Language.\n\nMaritime Sign Language (MSL) is commonly used in Canada's Atlantic provinces. It is derived from British Sign Language. (It differs from ASL because ASL is derived from French Sign Language, so there is more in common between LSQ and ASL than between ASL and MSL, due to the languages' origins.)\n\nInuit or Inuktitut Sign Language (ISL) is used in Canada's arctic communities, and was developed locally by families and communities who found a need for their deaf families and community members. Deaf Inuit who have attended school in Canada's south have also learned ASL. ISL made its debut in Nunavut legislature in 2008.\n\nChilean Sign Language (LSCh), Chile enacted in Law No. 20,422, in 2010 in order to ensure the right to equality of opportunity for disabled people, negating any form of discrimination against them. And which recognizes sign language as the natural means of communication of the deaf community Ley 20422 BCN LEGISLACIÓN CHILENA, 2010\n\nCzech Sign Language gained legal recognition as a human language with the passage of the Sign Language Law 155/1998 Sb (\"Zákon o znakové řeči 155/1998 Sb\") - see the legislation here (in Czech language).\n\nAs of May 13, 2014, Danish Sign Language gained legal recognition. The Danish Parliament established The Danish Sign Language Council \"to devise principles and guidelines for the monitoring of the Danish sign language and offer advice and information on the Danish sign language.\"\n\nThe European Parliament unanimously approved a resolution about Deaf Sign Languages on June 17, 1988 (available online here ). The resolution asks all member countries for recognition of their national sign languages as official languages of the Deaf.\n\nThe EP issued another resolution in 1998 with more or less the same content as in 1988, (see RESOLUTION on sign languages for the deaf, Official Journal C 187, 18/07/1988 P. 0236 \n\nFinnish Sign Language was recognised in the constitution in August 1995.\n\nIcelandic Sign Language was recognised by law in education in 2004.\n\nOn May 27, 2011, the Icelandic Parliament unanimously approved a bill which recognises Icelandic Sign Language as an official minority language with constitutional rights and as the first language of the deaf people of Iceland.\n\nThere is no official recognition of Indian Sign Language.\n\nIrish Sign Language was given official recognition in 2017. The \"Recognition of Irish Sign Language for the Deaf Community Bill 2016\" passed all stages in the Oireachtas (Irish Parliament) on 14 December 2017, and was signed into law by the President of Ireland Michael D Higgins on 24 December 2017. Prior to 2017, there was no automatic right for deaf people to have an ISL interpreter (except for criminal court proceedings). For the deaf community, recognition of ISL means more legal rights and better access to public services - including education, healthcare, media and banking.\n\nThere is no official recognition of Italian Sign Language (\"Lingua dei Segni Italiana\", LIS) yet. Those who oppose LIS recognition say this language is \"grammarless,\" although, by definition, a language cannot be, in fact, grammarless. Several research on the matter have already shown that Italian Sign Language is a proper language.\n\nThe Constitution of Kenya recognises Kenya Sign Language and states that the state shall promote the development and use of Kenyan sign language. Sign language is recognised further in Article 120 (1) which states that the official languages of parliament are Kiswahili, English and Kenyan sign language and the business of parliament may be conducted in English, Kiswahili and Kenyan sign language.\n\nThe Macedonian sign language (\"Македонски знаковен јазик, Makedonski znakoven jazik\") is officially recognized as \"natural way of communication between the people\". The language is regulated by a law, which allows students and every individual in Macedonia to study the language. Also, the law secures the right of interpreter for the students with special needs, and every other deaf person can request an interpreter, as well. Currently, there are more than 6.000 Macedonian citizens with deafness.\n\nThe Maltese Sign Language (LSM) was official recognized by parliament in March 2016.\n\nThe Mexican Sign Language (LSM) was officially declared a \"national language\" in 2003, and it started being used in public deaf education thereafter. Before 2003, deaf education in the country was focused on oralism (speech and lipreading) with few schools conducting classes in LSM.\n\nAlthough Nepali Sign Language has not yet been officially recognized as the mother tongue of Nepal's deaf population, legislation is underway which will bring Nepali law in line with the provisions of the UN Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities. These laws will recognize the rights of the deaf to use Nepali Sign Language have it used in education, in social life, in the legal sphere, etc., and this should thus lead to official governmental recognition of Nepali Sign Language on a par with the various spoken languages of Nepal.\n\nThe Sign Language of the Netherlands has not been recognised officially by law. There is some public funding for sign language projects.\n\nNew Zealand Sign Language became the second official language of New Zealand in April 2006, joining Māori when the bill was passed in the New Zealand Parliament on April 6, 2006.\n\nIn Northern Ireland, both British Sign Language and Irish Sign Language (but not Northern Ireland Sign Language) were recognised as official languages by the Northern Ireland Office, but they don't yet have the same status as the province's two official minority languages, Irish and Ulster-Scots.\n\nNorwegian Sign Language is recognised by law in education.\n\nIn May 2015, the sign language of Papua New Guinea became the fourth legally recognized language of Papua New Guinea.\n\nAs an example, many shows (such as the news) in public channels (RTP) have one corner of the screen with a person translating what's being said into sign language.\n\nRussian Sign Language (\"Русский жестовый язык\") has very limited legal recognition. In accordance with the Federal \"Law on Protection of People with Disabilities\" the sign language is considered a language used for inter-personal communication only, which means that no state support for the language is provided.\n\nSlovak Sign Language was recognised in 1995 by law: \"Zákon o posunkovej reči nepočujúcich osôb 149/1995 Sb\" - the Law of the Sign Language of the Deaf 149/1995.\n\nSouth African Sign Language is not specifically recognised as a Language of South Africa by the country's constitution, instead it contains the phrase \"sign language\" in the generic sense.\nThere is a process underway in parliament to investigate the possibility of upgrading the status of SASL to become the country's 12th official language.\n\nOn December 31, 2015, the \"South Korean National Assembly passed legislation to recognize Korean Sign Language as one of Korea’s official languages.\"\n\nOn June 28, 2007, Spanish and Catalan Sign Languages were recognised by the Spanish Parliament to be official languages in Spain. This recent legal development has opened a door to reinforced communication in the areas of healthcare, justice, education and MCM.\nSo far, the Autonomous Communities of Catalonia, Andalusia, and Valencia had granted the use of sign languages to the Deaf. In the other Spanish regions no sign languages were so far recognised, and support in terms of sign language interpretation for Deaf persons has been minimal or confined by different budgets. As pointed out, there are three sign languages claimed by Deaf organisations: Spanish Sign Language, Catalan Sign Language (LSC) and Valencian Sign Language (LSPV), although some linguists consider these to be the same.\n\nAlthough a regional law guarantees the presence of Catalan Sign Language since 1994 in all areas under the Catalan Government, such as education and media, until recently it was officially recognised the LSC in the Statute of Autonomy of Catalonia of 2006.\n\nThe legal situation in Andalusia is similar to the one in Catalonia, where a regional Law guarantees the presence of the Spanish Sign Language (LSE) in all social scopes since 1998. Recently, a recognition of it is included in the reforming of their Statute of Autonomy. At the moment, Andalusia is the unique Community where LSE is recognised with regards to the rest of Spain. In any case, in linguistic terms, the LSE used there has a strong dialectal variation.\n\nUntil recently, Valencia had poor legal support for the Deaf. The approved 2006 Statute of Autonomy grants to Valencian Deaf their right to use Valencian Sign Language (LSPV or LSCV). (Though the statute refers only to \"sign language\" in a generic sense.)\n\nGalicia is said to be working on a bill concerning the recognition of a sign language.\n\nThe recognition of Sri Lankan Sign Language was accepted by Sri Lanka on 26 September 2010. According to the report by Sri Lankan Newspaper at Internet on 23 September 2010[]\n\nThai Sign Language was acknowledged as \"the national language of deaf people in Thailand\" on 17 August 1999, in a resolution signed by the Permanent Secretary for Education on behalf of the Royal Thai Government that affirmed the rights of deaf people to learn this distinct sign language as their first language at home and in schools. According to a report by Charles Reilly (1999), \"specific actions will be taken by the government, including hiring deaf people as teachers and instructors of sign language in deaf schools, and providing interpreters for deaf people in higher education.\"\n\nThere is currently no official recognition of the Turkish Sign Language, the de facto sign language in use by the Turkish deaf community.\n\nOn July 1, 2005, the Turkish Grand National Assembly enacted an updated Disability Law (No. 5378), which for the first time in Turkish law made references to sign language. Law no. 15 says that a sign language is to be used in the deaf education system, and law no. 30 says that sign language interpreting is to be provided to deaf people. However, these laws are yet to be implemented (as of 2007), and it remains to be seen what form of sign language, if any, will be supported. There has been some discussion in parliament about \"developing\" a standardised sign language.\n\nTurkey also has action plans for disability issues, such as the Employment of Disabled Persons Plan (2005–2010) and the Prevention of Discrimination Against Disabled Persons Plan (2006–2010).\n\nOn October 8, 1995, Uganda's national sign language was recognised in the country's new constitution, making Uganda Sign Language one of the few constitutionally recognised sign languages in the world (WFD News, April 1996). A Deaf signer (27-year-old Alex Ndeezi) was elected to parliament in 1996.\n\nThe Federal government does not recognize any language spoken or signed as an official language. However many individual states have laws recognizing American Sign Language as a \"foreign language\"; some recognize ASL as a language of instruction in schools. A number of U.S. universities accept ASL credit to fulfill foreign language requirements.\n\nAlthough there are no \"official\" languages in Uruguay, nevertheless, Lengua de Señas Uruguaya, or \"LSU\" (In English: \"Uruguayan Sign Language\"), was \"recognized\" as the language of deaf persons in 2001 by the law:\nLEY No. 17.378. \"Reconócese a todos los efectos a la Lengua de Señas Uruguaya como la lengua natural de las personas sordas y de sus comunidades en todo el territorio de la República.\" 10 de Julio de 2001. Parlamento del Uruguay.\n\nIn the 2008 law 18.437 (\"Ley General de Educación. 12 de Diciembre de 2008\"), LSU is \"considered\" to be one of the mother tongues of Uruguayan citizens (along with Uruguayan Spanish and Uruguayan Portuguese. In the policy documents of the Comisión de Políticas Lingüísticas en la Educación Pública (the Public Education Language Policy Commission, which is part of the Administración Nacional de Educación Pública, ANEP) it is proposed that LSU would be the principal language of deaf education.\n\nVenezuelan Sign Language was recognised in the country's constitution on November 12, 1999.\n\nThe various Zimbabwean sign languages, grouped together as \"sign language\", are recognised in the 2013 Constitution of Zimbabwe as one of the sixteen \"officially recognised languages of Zimbabwe\".\n\n"}
{"id": "27555772", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27555772", "title": "Medical education in Panama", "text": "Medical education in Panama\n\nMedical education in Panama is principally offered and developed by accredited and government recognized medical schools in the country. There are 5 medical schools in Panama, typically offering the Bachelor of Medicine and Surgery degrees.\nIn Panama medical programs are divided into two types: undergraduate entry and graduate entry.\n\nUndergraduate entry degrees are typically 6 years in duration and commonly tend to draw students entering directly from high school; while graduate entry degrees are typically 4 years in length, and draw a university graduate with a current 4 years Bachelor's degree required for entry. These entries provide the medical programs with a variety in the age range and academic backgrounds of the participants.\n\nIt is important to note, however, that the graduate entry program still confers a Bachelor’s degree in Medicine; that although it is a graduate entry program, it does not confer a postgraduate degree in itself.\n\nIn order to practice medicine in the Republic, or enter a residency program in Panama it is required to be Panamenian citizen.\n\nOther requirements include:\nQualified medical practitioners must successfully undertake and complete one year of supervised practice, generally known as an internship. Internship is undertaken in hospital positions accredited for this purpose.\nUpon successful conclusion of the first intern year, doctors are required to undertake and complete a second year of internship at an assigned government health institution. Once this requirement is fulfilled the medical practitioners qualify for a full registration in the Medical Board and are licensed to engage in independent medical practice in Panama\n\nUniversities with undergraduate entry medical programs only:\n\n\nUniversities with graduate entry medical programs only:\n\n\nAll the graduate entry programs share a similar application process at this time and comparable to the requirements in the United States. Candidates are first required to have a Premedical Degree in an approved University. A 4 year Bachelor’s degree is required.\n\n"}
{"id": "28277733", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28277733", "title": "Ministry of Education (Iran)", "text": "Ministry of Education (Iran)\n\nThe Ministry of Education () established in 1964, is an Iranian government body responsible for the oversight of K-12 education in Iran. Each year, 20% of government spending and 5% of GDP goes to education, a higher rate than most other developing countries. 50% of education spending is devoted to secondary education and 21% of the annual state education budget is devoted to the provision of tertiary education.\nAlso Shahid Rajaee Teacher Training University and Farhangian University are the university of teacher education and human resource development in Ministry of Education. \n\n\n"}
{"id": "31531112", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31531112", "title": "Monastic HSEB, Janakpur", "text": "Monastic HSEB, Janakpur\n\nMonastic Higher Secondary English Boarding School (), (usually known simply as Monastic School) is a private boarding school in Janakpurdham, Dhanusa District, south-east Nepal. It was established in 1986 at a rented house at Bhanu Chowk, where it remained for seven years before expanding to a second location on Dhanusha Path, in the south of the town. Founded by Dr. Mithilesh Shah, it was named \"Monastic\" after the Sanskrit word of गुरुकुल, \"gurukul\", which is a type of school in India, residential in nature, with \"shishyas\" living in proximity to the guru, often within the same house. It does not follow the guru-shishya tradition (\"parampara\"), and is a \"normal\" residential school.\n\nThere are 3000 students in the school aged 5 to 18; the lower school, the middle school and the higher school. All are co-educational and has equal numbers of girls and boys. The first headmaster was Dr. Mithilesh Sah, who has occupied the post since the establishment of the school, the first and only headmaster of the school.\n\nMonastic pupils compulsorily take a district level qualification exam in grade eight and another important test, the School Leaving Certificate level ( equivalent to GCSE) tests in grade ten (aged 15–16), which earns them a matriculation degree and then, like all the other SLC graduates in Nepal, they have a range of choices where they choose either the state funded 10+2 level to continue their education in Monastic or any other higher secondary school in Nepal, or the British A-levels in the sixth form, offered by UCLES in Nepal, or the International Baccalaureate. The majority of students go on to higher education following the completion of their SLC at the end of Year Thirteen (aged 17–18).\n\nIn 2006, the school was upgraded to higher secondary school, which means it offers additional subjects related to science, management and arts and education.\n\nMonastic School is a full-fledged English Medium School, ultimately upgraded to 10+2 Science, Commerce, Arts and Education. This school was founded by Dr. Mithlesh Kumar Sah in 1985. Monastic School has three branches, namely the lower secondary, secondary and higher secondary branches, and they are under different supervisions. Most of its affairs are controlled by the founder principal. The school is renowned locally because of its regular good results at the annual SLC examinations, and thus has managed to maintain a distinctive place among the locals.\n\nThe school provides boarding facilities for its students, and runs local transportation services for the students from the outer parts of the Janakpur city.\n\nMonastic School operates two courses of study \nThe school has had 17 successful batches of SLC graduates since 1993, but the college has not lived up to the performance levels of the school.\n\nThe school holds extra-curricular activities and training sessions for personality development, most of which include cricket matches, quite popular game in that part of the world, along with some indoor games. Singing and dancing is a common activity and most of the dances are of local mithilanchal origin. In the process, the local culture is also practiced.\n\nMonastic School has established a very belonging relationship with the Leo Club of Nepal mainly due to the involvement of sports teacher Mr. Birendra Karna and the principal. Both of them are senior regional Lions Club members.\n\nThe students are found actively participating in the events organized by the local Leo clubs, which mostly includes blood donation, and volunteering camps.\n\nSince its inception in Nepal, the SQC, Nepal has found an active member in Monastic School. It is an active member and the local monitoring body for the organization as a teacher serving as the regional officer for SQC members in Nepal the organisation QUEST, Nepal.\n\nIn 2005 a former student of Monastic, Diwaker Jha was awarded RONAST Science and Technology Academy Award for building Zenith, a robot with machine vision and speech coordinated with a simulated display of behavior.\n\nMonastic School has Facebook, Twitter and Google Plus accounts in its name, which are administered by some former students.\n\n"}
{"id": "35523985", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35523985", "title": "National Quality Standard", "text": "National Quality Standard\n\nThe National Quality Standard (or NQS) is the benchmark for the quality of Early Childhood Education & Care in Australia (part of the National Quality Framework (NQF)).\n\nThe National Quality Standard aims to promote: \n\nThe National Quality Standard (NQS) is a key aspect of the NQF. The NQS consists of seven quality areas, each containing standards and elements, that children's education and care services are assessed and rated against.\n\nThe seven quality areas covered by the National Quality Standard are:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "7322957", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7322957", "title": "Network of Schools of Public Policy, Affairs, and Administration", "text": "Network of Schools of Public Policy, Affairs, and Administration\n\nThe Network of Schools of Public Policy, Affairs, and Administration (NASPAA) is a Washington, D.C.-based non-profit organization. It is an international association of public affairs schools (schools of public policy and administration) at universities in the United States and abroad. NASPAA is also the recognized by the Council for Higher Education Accreditation (CHEA) as the accreditor of master's degree programs in public policy (MPP), public affairs (MPAff), and public administration (MPA). Its stated mission is to \"ensure excellence in education and training for public service and to promote the ideal of public service.\"\n\nFounded in 1970, NASPAA serves as a national and international resource for the promotion of excellence in education for the public service. Its institutional membership includes more than 280 university programs in the United States in public administration, policy, and management. NASPAA is also the accreditator of its member schools, seeking to promote the quality of education. It accomplishes its purposes through direct services to its member institutions and by: \n\nNASPAA provides opportunities for international engagement for NASPAA members, placing a global emphasis on educational quality and quality assurance through a series of networked international initiatives, in particular the Network of Institutes and Schools of Public Administration in Central and Eastern Europe (NISPAcee), the Inter-American Network of Public Administration Education (INPAE), and the Georgian Institute of Public Affairs (GIPA). It is also involved locally, directing the Small Communities Outreach Project for Environmental Issues, which networks public affairs schools and local governments around environmental regulation policy issues, with support from the Environmental Protection Agency.\n\nIn 2013, NASPAA changed its name from the National Association of Schools of Public Affairs and Administration to the Network of Schools of Public Policy, Affairs, and Administration to reflect its \"growing international membership and disciplinary breadth.\"\n\nThe Journal of Public Affairs Education (JPAE) is a quarterly, peer-reviewed, academic journal of public administration education that is published by Taylor & Francis on behalf of the Network of Schools of Public Policy, Affairs, and Administration. The journal was established in 1995, and has been edited by Bruce D. McDonald, III (North Carolina State University) and William Hatcher (Augusta University) since 2017.\n\nThe \"Journal of Public Administration Education\" was founded in 1995 by H. George Frederickson. Initially published in coordination with the American Society for Public Administration's Section on Public Administration Education (SPAE), the National Association of Schools of Public Affairs and Administration (NASPAA) began discussions in 1996 of sponsoring the journal. In the fall of 1997, Frederickson transferred ownership of the journal to NASPAA. Under the new ownership, NASPAA elected to change the name of the journal to the \"Journal of Public Affairs Education\" to reflect the breadth of the NASPAA's mission and to increase the appeal of the journal. Despite the change in name ownership, the journal has continued to maintain a loose affiliation with SPAE.\n\nSince taking ownership of the journal, \"JPAE\" has been self-published by NASPAA; however, in 2017 a publishing agreement was reached between NASPAA and Taylor & Francis. Since January 2018, Taylor & Francis has overseen the production and distribution of the journal.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2524115", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2524115", "title": "Ohio Graduation Test", "text": "Ohio Graduation Test\n\nThe Ohio Graduation Test (OGT) is the high school graduation examination given to sophomores in the U.S. state of Ohio. Students must pass all five sections (reading, writing, mathematics, science and social studies) in order to graduate. Students have multiple chances to pass these sections and can still graduate without passing each using the alternative pathway. In 2009, the Ohio legislature passed an education reform bill eliminating the OGT in favor of a new assessment system. The development and transition of replacement began in 2014 and will end in 2022.\n\nPrior to the OGT, passing the ninth grade proficiency test was required for graduation beginning with the class of 1994. It had the same five subjects, apart from the social studies test was referred to as the citizenship test.\n\nIn 2001, the Ohio legislature directed the Ohio Department of Education (ODE) to develop the OGT based on the soon-to-be-adopted academic content standards. The first official OGT was given in March 2005. It replaced the ninth grade proficiency test as a graduation requirement for the class of 2006. The last administration of the ninth grade proficiency test was in 2005.\n\nQuestions are developed by ODE staff, sent through committees, and placed on exams before official inclusion on the OGT. First, the Content Advisory Committee runs the ODE developed question past parents and educators to see if it addresses the content. Second, the Fairness Sensitivity Review Committee helps ensure that questions are fair and do not put any student at a disadvantage because of a student’s moral values, social status, or religious beliefs. Third, the question is field tested. It is placed on an exam, but does not count towards the score of the student. Finally, the committees evaluate the performance data and decide if the question is to be used.\n\nThe OGT is made up of five tests: reading, writing, mathematics, science, and social studies. These sections match the core school subjects and fulfill the high school testing requirement in reading, mathematics, and science under the federal No Child Left Behind Act. Each of the five sections is formatted differently, but they each contain multiple choice, short answer, and extended response questions:\n\ntotal 38 questions\n\nEach exam has approximately six extra questions that are being field tested for future OGT tests. Students are not penalized for incorrect answers on field tested questions. Students have up to two and a half hours to complete each section of the test. Typically, the tests are split up so that there is only one per day (for five days).\n\nThe OGT is first given to students in the spring of their sophomore year. If they do not pass all five sections, they can continue to retake the exam. The OGT is administered in the fall (October), spring (March), and summer (June) each year. Not all schools offer the summer OGT, but students can be directed to one that does. Summer testing also requires a student to take at least 10 hours of preparatory programs beforehand. A typical student will have seven opportunities to pass the OGT before he or she is scheduled to graduate.\n\nThere are special accommodations of the OGT for students with special needs. These accommodations include tests with readers, in large print, and different languages like Spanish, Chinese, and Somali. Students with an Individualized Education Program (IEP) may be exempted from the requirement to pass all sections of the OGT or may take another assessment if the plan allows. For students with significant disabilities, there is an alternate assessment that requires a collection of evidence that demonstrates knowledge appropriate for the student’s disabilities.\n\nPassing all five of the OGT tests is required to earn an Ohio diploma for both public and private school students (excluding IEP issues). However, there is an exception for students who come very close. The alternative pathway lets student who meet seven specific requirements to graduate without passing all five tests. High school guidance counselors determine if students qualify for this option. A student qualifies for the alternative pathway if they:\n\n\nIn 2009, the Ohio legislature passed an education reform bill that, among other things, called for the OGT to be replaced. To receive a diploma, students will have to earn a certain composite score drawn from a new three part assessment system:\n\n\nThe academic content standards and the model curriculum must be finished before the new assessment system can be developed to assure alignment. Work will begin on developing this new system in 2011. There is no set date for the beginning of the new assessment system, but the 2013-2014 school year has been targeted. The OGT will be phased out until 2022. \n\nAlso in 2009, the federal Race to the Top $4.35 billion incentive program was announced. It included up to $350 million for common assessment development. Various consortia of states formed to compete for this grant. Ohio signed memorandums of understanding with two groups: Smarter Balance and Achieve. Whatever assessment systems these groups design may supersede the modified Ohio Achievement Assessment (grades 3-8), the three part assessment system, and the composite score passed by the Ohio legislature.\n\nThe OGT receives many of the same criticisms as other states’ standardized tests. Chief among them is that the assessments drive instruction, give students increased testing anxiety, and test preparations distract from classroom learning. The activist, perennial candidate, and former 98 Degrees singer Justin Jeffre filed a formal letter of complaint asserting the OGT is \"unfair\" according to guidelines set forth in the Ohio Administrative Code.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "6190806", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6190806", "title": "Pierre Dulaine", "text": "Pierre Dulaine\n\nPierre Dulaine (born 23 April 1944) is a dance instructor and dancer. He invented the Dulaine method of teaching dance. He also founded Dancing Classrooms, a Social and Emotional development program for 5th grade children that uses ballroom dancing as a vehicle to change the lives of the children and their families.\n\nNotably, his early works with children was fictionalized in the film \"Take the Lead\", starring Antonio Banderas as Pierre Dulaine.\n\nThe documentary film \"Mad Hot Ballroom\" follows a Ballroom Dancing with Dancing Classrooms competition.\n\nPierre Dulaine was born in Jaffa, Palestine in 1944. His Irish father was serving with the British Army stationed in British Mandate Palestine; his mother is Palestinian. In 1948 his parents fled Israel. After eight months of moving several times, first in Cyprus, then in England and Ireland, Dulaine's family settled in Amman, Jordan. In 1956, the Suez Crisis forced Dulaine's parents to flee the area, eventually resettling in Birmingham, England.\n\nDulaine began his dancing career at the age of 14, and took his Associate Degree as a professional dancer when he was 18. He took three further majors exams aged 21 and became a full member of the Imperial Society of Teachers of Dancing.\n\nIn 1971 he worked as a solo dancer at the London Hippodrome, as well as working at a nightclub called L'Hirondelle. Dulaine moved to Nairobi, Kenya and worked for a year at the Nairobi Casino in cabaret with the Bluebell Troupe from Paris. After this, he became cruise director for a ship sailing from New York City to the Caribbean Islands. He then got a job at an Arthur Murray dance studio. \n\nIn January 1976, Dulaine became dance partners with Yvonne Marceau, who had arrived at the dance studio in 1973. The pair studied in England with John DelRoy, and won several awards. In 1984, they co-founded the American Ballroom Theater Company with Otto Cappel. The Company debuted at the Dance Theatre Workshop in October 1984, and toured widely in the late 1980s. From July 1989 to 1990, the pair appeared in Tommy Tune's Broadway show Grand Hotel, finishing with a five-month run in the West End. \n\nIn 1994 Dulaine founded the Dancing Classrooms program for the New York City Department of Education. He also invented the \"Dulaine Method\" to encourage children to dance together. He later travelled to Northern Ireland to teach the same program. In 2011 Dulaine travelled to Jaffa, the city of his birth to teach the method and make the 2013 film \"Dancing in Jaffa\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "17477111", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17477111", "title": "Royal Air Force Centre for Air Power Studies", "text": "Royal Air Force Centre for Air Power Studies\n\nThe Royal Air Force Centre for Air Power Studies (RAF CAPS) is a Royal Air Force sponsored think tank which engages in the study of air power.\n\nThe centre was launched on 23 August 2007 by Air Chief Marshal Sir Glenn Torpy, Chief of the Air Staff. Based at the Royal Air Force College, this think tank and research centre claims to bring together academia with serving members of the RAF to analyse how air power has been used in the past and how best it might be used in a modern, complex world of increasing ambiguity. It aspires to act as the RAF’s centre for strategic and conceptual thinking about air power, to \"encourage and promote the study of air power, particularly within the Service and academia, but also throughout the broader intellectual community (including the media and think-tanks)\". \n\nThe centre hosts a website, runs major conferences, offers fellowships and, since 2008, publishes a journal called \"Air Power Review\". Its board is headed by the Air Officer Commanding No. 22 (Training) Group. Its staff consists of key members of the Royal Air Force, the Air Historical Branch (RAF), and academics from King's College London's Air Power Studies Division. In 2009 the RAF CAPS worked with a King's College team of air power experts under the direction of Dr Joel Hayward to develop the UK's first specialised master's degree in air power studies.\n\nThe Chief of the Air Staff's Air Power Workshop, sometimes known merely as the CAS Workshop, is a small working group of senior scholars and other theorists convened by the Chief of Air Staff, the professional head of the Royal Air Force. Run by the successive Directors of Defence Studies (RAF), the Workshop develops and debates cutting-edge ideas on air power and sporadically produces books containing the findings. \n\n"}
{"id": "10001957", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10001957", "title": "Satwant Pasricha", "text": "Satwant Pasricha\n\nSatwant Pasricha is the head of Department of Clinical Psychology at NIMHANS, National Institute of Mental Health and Neurosciences at Bangalore. She also worked for a time at the University of Virginia School of Medicine in the USA. Pasricha investigates reincarnation and near-death experiences. Pasricha co-authored the 2011 book \"Making sense of near-death experiences\", which was Highly Commended in the Psychiatry category at the 2012 British Medical Association Book Awards.\n\nPasricha has investigated and participated in about 500 cases of reincarnation involving children (referred to as subjects) since 1973 who claim to remember previous lives. She became interested in working in parapsychology because she was not satisfied with the conventional explanations of certain paranormal or unusual behavior.\n\nPasricha studies not just the characteristics of reincarnation prevalent in India, but also suggests ways they are similar or different from those of people in other countries. She collaborated with Ian Stevenson in reincarnation research beginning in the 1970s.\n\nShe joined NIMHANS (Deemed University) as a faculty in December 1980 as a lecturer in Clinical Parapsychology; and then was promoted to Assistant professor, Associate professor and Additional Professor of Clinical Psychology. She is also involved in clinical work such as patient care and teaching and research in the areas of her interest at NIMHANS.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "33974074", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33974074", "title": "Savonlinna Music Academy", "text": "Savonlinna Music Academy\n\nSavonlinna Music Academy () is an association in Savonlinna (Finland) organizing international master classes in Savonlinna and abroad. On the master classes internationally renowned musicians teach young talented singers and instrumentalists in the field of opera, lied and chamber music.\n\nSavonlinna Music Academy originated from Savonlinna Music Days organized by Finnish composer Yrjö Kilpinen in the 1950s. During the Music Days, teaching for young musicians was organized. The history of Savonlinna Music Academy thus goes back to times before Savonlinna Opera Festival made the small town internationally known. Over time the organization has changed, but the main principle of providing quality teaching has remained the same. Currently, master classes are organized within the framework Savonlinna Summer University (open university) teaching. Savonlinna Music Academy is directed by an artistic committee. The chair of the artistic committee is pianist Ralf Gothóni. The managing director of Savonlinna Music Academy Association is operationally responsible for activities.\n\nMainly master classes are organized in July when also Savonlinna Opera Festival takes place. For students this gives the opportunity to meet and hear many artists visiting Savonlinna for the festival. Concerts organized the Music Academy attract people coming to Savonlinna for opera and classical music. Instruction in singing comprises in addition to opera and lied also of teaching for vocalist-piano duos. In the chamber music master classes student and teachers make music together.\n\nSimilar teaching models are the Steans Institute of Ravinia Festival and the Mozarteum Orchestra.\n\nInstructors in lied have been Helmut Deutsch, Irwin Cage, Hartmut Höll, Graham Johnson and Roger Vignoles. In opera Ilena Cotrubas, Thomas Hemsley, Dorothy Irving, Jevgeni Nesterenko, Peter Pears, Mitsuko Shirai and Sarah Walker have been active. During the last years teachers mainly responsible have been Tom Krause and director Eija Tolpo.\n\nSavonlinna Music Academy has also made own productions such as Wolfgang Amadeus Mozart's Cosi fan tutte and the 'Italienisches Liederbuch' of Hugo Wolf as an arrangement for chamber orchestra and two voices in 2005. In 2011 the Academy produced the comic opera Il matrimonio segreto by Domenico Cimarosa. The production also toured at Mustasaari Music Festival and in Detmold. In 2010 instruction in music technology and in 2011 in recording technology was started in cooperation with Sibelius Academy and Hochschule für Musik Detmold.\n\nThe international activities of the Savonlinna Music Academy have included master classes in Cairo, Egypt, where courses have been organized for Egyptian students in 2009 and 2010. Participating teachers in Cairo were pianist Ralf Gothoni, violist Teemu Kupiainen, cellist professor Arto Noras, director Eija Tolpo and pianist Jari Hiekkapelto. Egyptian musicians have also participated in master classes in Savonlinna.\n\n"}
{"id": "9719595", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9719595", "title": "Sharon Draper", "text": "Sharon Draper\n\nSharon Mills Draper (born August 21, 1948) is an American children's writer and a professional educator, the 1997 National Teacher of the Year. She is a five-time winner of the Coretta Scott King Award for books about the African-American experience. She may be known best for the Hazelwood and Jericho series and for her historical novel \"Copper Sun\". Other books include \"Double Dutch\", \"Out of My Mind\" and \"Romiette and Julio, and Stella by Starlight\". Draper won the Margaret A. Edwards Award from American Library Association in 2015. The annual award recognizes one writer and a particular body of work for \"significant and lasting contribution to young adult literature\". The judges cited six novels that were published from 1994 to 2007: \"Tears of a Tiger\", \"Forged by Fire\", and \"Darkness Before Dawn\" (the Hazelwood trilogy); \"The Battle of Jericho\", \"November Blues\", and \"Copper Sun\".\n\nDraper was born in Cleveland, Ohio. \nShe is graduate of Pepperdine University. She is an active participant in the activities of the YMCA of Cincinnati, a member of the National Council of Teachers of English, the International Reading Association, and Top Ladies of Distinction. Mrs. Draper travels extensively and has been a guest on television and radio programs throughout the country, discussing issues surrounding literature, reading, and education. She is an accomplished public speaker who addresses educational and literary groups of all ages, both nationally and internationally, with entertaining readings of her poetry and novels. She lives with her husband in Cincinnati, Ohio. Her daughter has Cerebral Palsy, a disability which the main character in \"Out of My Mind\" also lives with. She only has one son, named Max, that is a freshman that attends a central Ohio school. \n\nShe is a Milken Family Foundation National Educator Award winner, and was the Duncanson Artist-in-Residence for the Taft Museum. She is a YWCA Career Woman of Achievement, and is the recipient of the Dean's Award from Howard University School of Education, the Pepperdine University Distinguished Alumnus Award, the Marva Collins Education Excellence Award, and the Governor's Educational Leadership Award. Last year she was named Ohio Pioneer in Education by the Ohio State Department of Education, received the Beacon of Light Humanitarian award, as well as the Doctor of Laws Degree from Pepperdine University. In 2011, she received the 33rd annual Jeremiah Ludington Memorial Award by the Educational and Media Association.\n\nShe has been honored at the White House six times, and was chosen as one of only four authors in the country to speak at the National Book Festival Gala in Washington, D.C, and to represent the United States in Madrid at their Book Festival. Her book \"Copper Sun\" has been selected by the US State Department and the International Reading Association as the United States novel for the international reading project called Reading Across Continents. Students in the US, Nigeria, and Ghana are reading the book and sharing ideas.\n\n\"Tears of a Tiger\" has received numerous awards, including the American Library Ac./Coretta Scott King Award for an outstanding new book, and was also honored as an ALA Best Books for Young Adults. It has been recognized as one of the best of the year by the Children's Book Council, the New York City Library, Bank Street College, and the National Council for Social Studies. It was also named as Best of the Best by VOYA.\n\n\"Forged by Fire\", the sequel to \"Tears of a Tiger\", was the 1997 Coretta Scott King Award winner, as well as the winner of the ALA Best Book Award and the Parent's Choice Award and the Indiana Young Hoosier Award.\n\n\"Darkness Before Dawn\", the third book in the trilogy, is an ALA Top Ten Quick Pick, and has received the Children's Choice Award from the International Reading Association and received the Buckeye Book Award for 2005, and was named an IRA Young Adult Choice for 2003.\n\n\"Romiette and Julio\" is also listed as an ALA Best Book and has been selected by the International Reading Association as a 2000 Notable Book for a Global Society, and by the New York Public Library in their Books for the Teen Age.\n\n\"Out of My Mind\" was chosen the winner of the 2013 Sasquatch Reading Award by the readers of Washington State and the 2013 Bluestem Award by the third through fifth graders of Illinois. It won the 2013 California Young Reader Medal and the 2013 Nevada Young Readers Award\n\n\"Double Dutch\" was honored as a Notable Social Studies Trade Book for Young People by the Children's Book Council as well as one of the top ten sports books for young adults for 2003 by the ALA, and Best of the Best for 2004, and received the Sunshine State Young Readers Award for 2006.\n\n\"The Battle of Jericho\" is the 2004 Coretta Scott King Award, one of the New York Public Library's Book for the Teen Age, and is one of the 2005 Young Adult Choice Books named by the International Reading Association.\n\n\"Fire from the Rock\" has been selected by the NCSS-CBC Notable Social Studies Committee as a Notable Social Studies Trade Book for Young People for 2008 and is honored on the 2008 New York Public Library Best Books for the Teen Age.\n\n\"We Beat the Street\" is listed on the New York Times Bestseller List and is on VOYA's Non-Fiction Honor List for 2006 and is honored on the 2006 New York Public Library Best Books for the Teen Age.\n\n\"Copper Sun\" received the 2007 Coretta Scott King Award, was named as one of the Top Ten Historical Fiction Books for Youth by Booklist was nominated for the 2007 NAACP Image Award for Literature, and received the Ohioana Award for Young Adult Literature. \"Copper Sun\" is also a CBC/NCSS Notable Social Studies Trade Book, received the Heartland Award for Excellence in YA Literature, was named as an IRA Notable Book for a Global Society and was named as Best Book of the Year by School Library Journal. \"Copper Sun\" is also listed on the New York Times Bestseller List.\n\n\"November Blues\" received the 2008 Coretta Scott King Award and is honored on the 2008 New York Public Library Best Books for the Teen Age.\n\n\"Sassy: Little Sister Is Not My Name!\" received the 2009 Parents Choice Award.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "55383701", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55383701", "title": "Snapask", "text": "Snapask\n\nSnapask is a Hong Kong-based education technology company that offers tutoring services to the students based in Hong Kong, Singapore, Thailand, Korea, Indonesia, Japan, Malaysia and Taiwan. In 2016, Snapask was awarded for the best team at the France Singapore ICT Awards 2016.\n\nSnapask was founded by Timothy Yu in January 2015. With its headquarters in Hong Kong, it expanded to Taiwan and Singapore in the year 2015.\n\nIn 2016, January, Snapask launched a new version Snapask 3.0, that was said to have better optimization with respect to the student-tutor matching mechanism to induce faster responses. According to Yu, this version included machine-learning algorithm to understand students’ study pattern.\n\nIn March 2016, Snapask became one of the companies to use Watson, a question answering (QA) computing system built by IBM, which involves advanced natural language processing, automated reasoning, information retrieval and knowledge representation.\n\nIn 2017 January, Snapask launched Snapask 4.0, which included concept-based quizzes, as an advanced feature.\n\nAs of June 2017, Snapask has a userbase of more than 300,000.\n\nSnapask was one among the top 20 finalists at the 2017 EdTechXGlobal All Star Growth Awards.\n\nSnapask works as a mobile crowdsourcing platform that involves artificial intelligence and allows students to connect to tutors and receive instant one-on-one academic support. This app is said to address the questions and problems asked by its users within 15 seconds. Students are asked to take a picture of their queries and submit it to the platform; these questions are then, addressed by the tutors at Snapask.\n"}
{"id": "36554347", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36554347", "title": "Special Assistance Resource Teacher", "text": "Special Assistance Resource Teacher\n\nThe establishment of the \"Special Assistance Program\" in Victorian Primary Schools was the most significant development in remedial education in Australia. It was a Hamer Liberal Government initiated strategic plan designed to address falling literacy and numeracy standards. The totally new component of the \"Special Assistance Program\" was the provision of 1000 \"Special Assistance Resource Teachers\" (SARTs) for the delivery of services to children with learning needs. These designated teachers were also given an on-site school responsibility for facilitating a productive relationship between parents and pupils and teachers. The program involved the training of these primary teachers as SARTs and their placement in schools. Their role was the early detection and remediation of children at risk of illiteracy and innumeracy. The position was the focus of this substantial change in the delivery of special educational services to children at risk of illiteracy and innumeracy. The role incorporated all the elements of services previously performed by external consultants visiting schools. \n\nThe development and implementation of the \"Special Assistance Program\" in Victorian Primary Schools during the period 1979 - 1982 constituted the most significant innovation in the provision of special education services to children experiencing learning difficulties and in addressing declining literacy and numeracy standards.\n\nUp until the political directive to initiate this program was given, there had been no policy within the \"Department of Education and Early Childhood Development\" (previously \"Education Department of Victoria\") directing Principals of Primary Schools to develop special programs for pupils at risk of illiteracy and innumeracy.\nIn July 1979, the Assistant Minister of Education the Hon. Norman Lacy established a \"Ministerial Committee on Special Assistance Programs\". The committee consisted of people drawn from school staffs, special education facilities, teacher training institutions and the Education Department administration. The committee's report was the basis upon which the \"Special Assistance Program\" was established. The major components recommended for the program were:\n\nThe process for the establishment of the \"Special Assistance Program\" in Victorian Primary Schools was outlined in a speech made by Mr Lacy to SARTs at a seminar on 15 December 1980.\n\nThe concept of a school based resource teacher identifying deficits in literacy and numeracy in individual children and providing assistance and resources to classroom teachers to address those deficits through special programs had been supported by the findings of numerous major committees of inquiry. Reports such as:\nThe educational philosophy that was the foundation upon which the Special Assistance Program was built had its origins in these reports. That philosophy recognises the profound influence that a child's learning environment has on his behaviour and learning. It also acknowledges the right of children to have their learning needs met in common structural and social conditions. Arising from this philosophical perspective emerges the inescapable proposition that special assistance for children at risk of illiteracy and innumeracy (over and above the normnal learning provisions available to all children) is an essential part of a school's functioning and that the designation of a specially trained resource teacher to provide that assistance to children, their classroom teachers and their parents is an integral part of a team approach to curriculum development, teaching and all other aspects of schooling. This position was strongly supported by both the Australian Schools Commission's \"Report for the Triennium 1976-78\" and the Warnock Report, which went further to assert that if ordinary schools are to improve in their efforts for children with special needs they will require special support from within their organisation.\n\nThe role and functions of the SARTs were specifically prescribed by the Government after extensive consultation with the Victorian Teachers Union (VTU) and the Victorian Primary Principals Association (VPPA). They were:\n\nThe implementation of the first stage of the \"Special Assistance Program\" was only possible after further consultation and a signed agreement by the Minister of Educational Services the Hon. Norman Lacy with the VTU and the VPPA.\n\nAs a result, from the beginning of the 1981 school year SARTs were designated by their schools and appointed to the 575 primary schools with enrolments of greater than 300 pupils. They were manadated to establish the \"Special Assistance Program\" in their schools. The Education Department's Special Services Division and the Primary Division monitored the progress of the implementation and produced a number of evaluative reports that were presented to the Minister.\n\nFrom the beginning of the 1982 school year, schools with an enrolment of between 150 and 300 pupils designated and appointed a SART to carry out the role on a half-time basis. This resulted in and additional 302 primary schools in Victoria having a school based resource teacher, bringing the total to 877 schools. It was not planned to designate a SART at schools with less than 150 pupils. At such schools it was planned that the Principal or an appointed staff member would access services from the Special Assistance Resource Centres for children at these schools in need of such services.\n\nA major component of stage one was the in-service education component for the SARTs designated by their schools for the new role. A survey of the qualifications and experience of the 575 designated SARTs was undertaken to assess their training requirements. The responses indicated that 200 of the designated teachers had already completed special education training courses. Of these 102 were also experienced in special education teaching. As well 28 of the 375 remaining designated teachers were experienced special education teachers.\n\nFour teacher training colleges (Melbourne, Burwood, Bendigo and Warrnambool) were chosen to provide the training programs. A course planning committee was established and drew up a set of principles and a course content outline for a 20-day, one day per week special assistance training course. The course content dealt with approaches to language teaching (esprecially reading), mathematics teaching, and identification of learning problems. The focus of the course was to enable SARTs to devise and implement programs of special assistance in their own schools. An invitation to enrol in the course was sent to all designated SARTs by the Acting Director of Teacher Education on 29 January 1981. They were told that attendance at the courses was voluntary. The responses received by the colleges overwhelmed them. Very few SARTs did not enrol in the course and many teachers from schools of less than 300 pupils were voluntarily designated by their Principals as SARTS and also sought enrolment in the training course. As a result, not all requests for the in-service training course in the Special Assistance Program could be met in the first year of its availability. During 1981, 290 SARTs undertook the course.\n\nThe response from schools to the in-service training course was way beyond the Education Department's expectations and reflected the extent of expressed and latent concerns schools had for children at risk of illiteracy and innumeracy. A survey of 160 teachers who had completed this course found that, despite initial concerns, there was a good deal of support from school principals and teachers for the SART concept. However, most SARTs felt they needed more in-service training or further training in special education before they felt competent to fulfil their roles. AREA shared a concern that teachers undertaking SART duties were not qualified in special education, but their proposals to the course committee were rejected.\n"}
{"id": "33224295", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33224295", "title": "Stephen Kevin Smith", "text": "Stephen Kevin Smith\n\nProfessor Stephen Kevin Smith FMedSci is an academic and health executive who led the creation of the UK's first Academic Health Science Centre at Imperial College, London.\n\nPreviously, Professor Smith was Principal of the Faculty of Medicine at Imperial College, London and Chief Executive of Imperial College Healthcare NHS Trust at its inception in 2007 then the largest such trust in the United Kingdom. More recently he was Dean of the Faculty of Medicine Dentistry and Health Sciences at the University of Melbourne having been the Vice President (Research) at the Nanyang Technological University and Founding Dean of the joint Lee Kong Chian School of Medicine in Singapore. He was a founder of the Sino-Chinese biotechnology company, GNI Group Ltd. \nA gynaecologist by training, he has published over 230 papers on reproductive medicine and cancer and was awarded his Doctor of Science in 2001 for his work in Cambridge on the complex gene pathways that regulate the growth of blood vessels in reproductive tissue using gene network analysis. He was head of the Department of Obstetrics and Gynaecology at the University of Cambridge. He now serves on the Board of Great Ormond Street, Children's Hospital, London and a range of biotechnology and digital analytics companies.\n\nHe began his academic career at the University of Edinburgh (1978–1981 and 1985–1988) and the University of Sheffield (1981–1985). Soon after, he served at the University of Cambridge as Professor of Obstetrics and Gynaecology and Head of the Department of Obstetrics and Gynaecology (1988–2003). He was also the Clinical Director, Women’s Services, at Addenbrooke's Hospital National Health Service Trust (1997–2003). In 2004, Professor Smith served as Executive Dean of the Faculty of Medicine, Dentistry and Nursing at the University of Glasgow.\n\nIn 2004, he was appointed the Principal of the Faculty of Medicine of Imperial College London, heading one of Europe’s top medical schools through an active period of growth and development. At Imperial College, Professor Smith also led the formation of the United Kingdom’s first Academic Health Science Centre as Chief Executive. Launched in 2007, the Imperial College Healthcare National Health Service Trust was formed from the integration of Hammersmith Hospital National Health Service Trust and St Mary’s National Health Service Trust with Imperial College. His pioneering role in establishing the trust was recognised at the 2009 National Health Service Leadership Awards, during which he was named Innovator of the Year.\n\nIn 2010, Professor Smith was appointed Imperial College’s Pro Rector (Health), while remaining the Chief Executive of the Imperial College Healthcare National Health Service Trust. He took on the role of NTU’s Vice-President (Research) in September 2011 to lead the strategic development of research at the university, which is the fastest-rising Asian institution among the world’s top 100 universities in the QS World University Rankings between 2010 and 2011.\n\nProfessor Smith has been active in research since 1978. A gynaecologist by training, he has published over 230 papers on reproductive medicine and cancer. For his work on the complex gene pathways that regulate the growth of blood vessels in reproductive tissue, Professor Smith was awarded his DSc in 2001.\n\nProfessor Smith is a founder-member of biomedical start-ups Metris Therapeutics Ltd and GNI Group Ltd, the latter undertaking a successful IPO in 2007 and is now listed on the Mothers market (comprising high-growth start-ups) of the Tokyo Stock Exchange.\n\nIn addition to his academic and clinical work, Professor Smith is a Fellow of the Academy of Medical Sciences, Australian Academy of Health and Medical Sciences, Royal College of Obstetricians and Gynaecologists and the Royal Society of Arts. In 2009, the Health Service Journal ranked Professor Smith among the top 30 most powerful people in National Health Service management policy and practice in England. He was the only National Health Service chief executive to be included.\n\nProfessor Smith has served on numerous committees for organisations such as the United Kingdom’s Medical Research Council, the World Health Organization, the National Institutes of Health (USA), the National Health Service, the British Heart Foundation and the Wellcome Trust. He also sat on the Health Innovation Council of the National Health Service and is a Trustee of Pancreatic Cancer UK and chairs the scientific advisory board.\n\nProfessor Smith is a lifelong supporter of Manchester United Football Club.\n\nProfessor Smith has three children.\n\n"}
{"id": "36070764", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36070764", "title": "Tonkunst", "text": "Tonkunst\n\nTonkunst, literally \"The Art of Tone\", is an obsolete term in the German language applied for art music of the 19th century, and often used in music history and musical aesthetic representations. It probably originated from the need to give the music a place among the classical arts like architecture, sculpture, painting, prose and poetry, and also recognize the composer or musician as a creative individual. The term is found for example in the inscriptions of the Walhalla memorial built in 1842, where a good example is Joseph Haydn, titled as \"Doctor der Tonkunst\" (\"Doctor of Tone-Art\"), and Ludwig van Beethoven as \"Tondichter\" (\"Tone-poet\"). Today the term is rarely used, but lives on, for example, in the name of the Tonkünstler Orchestra.\n"}
{"id": "32094", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32094", "title": "University of New Brunswick", "text": "University of New Brunswick\n\nThe University of New Brunswick (UNB) is a public university with two primary campuses in Fredericton and Saint John, New Brunswick. It is the oldest English-language university in Canada, and among the oldest public universities in North America. UNB was founded by a group of seven Loyalists who left the United States after the American Revolution.\n\nUNB has two main campuses: the original campus, founded in 1785 in Fredericton, and a smaller campus which opened in Saint John in 1964. In addition, there are two small satellite health sciences campuses located in Moncton and Bathurst, New Brunswick, and two offices in the Caribbean and in Beijing. UNB offers over 75 degrees in fourteen faculties at the undergraduate and graduate levels with a total student enrollment of approximately 11,400 between the two principal campuses. UNB was named the most entrepreneurial university in Canada at the 2014 Startup Canada Awards.\n\nIn 1783, Loyalist settlers began to build upon the ruins of a former Acadian village called Ste-Anne-des-Pays-Bas. The new settlement was named Frederick's Town in honour of Prince Frederick, son of King George III and uncle of Queen Victoria.\n\nInitially modelled on the Anglican ideals of older, European institutions, the University of New Brunswick was founded in 1785 as the Academy of Liberal Arts and Sciences. The petition requesting the establishment of the school, titled \"The Founders' Petition of 1785,\" was addressed to Governor Thomas Carleton and was signed by seven Loyalist men: William Paine, William Wanton, George Sproule, Zephaniah Kingsley, Sr., John Coffin, Ward Chipman, and Adino Paddock.\n\nBy an 1800 provincial charter, signed by Jonathan Odell, the Academy of Liberal Arts and Sciences became the College of New Brunswick. The College was succeeded by King's College, which was granted by royal charter in December 1827. King's College operated under the control of the Church of England until 1859, when it was made non-sectarian by an act of the provincial legislature that transformed the College into the University of New Brunswick. In 1866, Mary Kingsley Tibbits became the first regularly admitted female student of UNB.\n\nIn 1906, UNB established a bicameral system of university government consisting of a senate responsible for academic policy, and a board of governors exercising exclusive control over financial policy and other matters. The president, appointed by the board, was to provide a link between the two bodies and to provide institutional leadership. By 1867, the University of New Brunswick had two faculties: Arts and Applied Science. It awarded the degrees of Bachelor of Arts, Bachelor of Science, Master of Arts, and Doctor of Science. The latter was awarded only in the fields of civil engineering, electrical engineering, and forestry. At this time, the university had 156 male students, 21 female students, and only eleven academic staff, who were all male.\n\nIn the 1960s, University policies changed in response to social pressure and the belief that higher education was a key to social justice and economic productivity for individuals and for society. In 1964, a second, smaller campus was established in Saint John, New Brunswick. The growth of the UNBSJ campus is particularly notable, for the campus began with only 96 students spread throughout various buildings in Saint John's central business district. In 1968, UNBSJ moved to its new home at Tucker Park.\n\nThe Association of University of New Brunswick Teachers (AUNBT) was established in 1954; in 1979, this association became the bargaining agent for all full-time academic staff, and in 2008, it achieved certification for contract academic staff.\n\nIn 1959, the Faculty of Law moved from Saint John to Fredericton following a report on the status of legal education in Canada by Professor Maxwell Cohen from McGill University. In his report, Cohen stated that the Saint John Law School was only \"nominally a faculty of UNB\". This prompted Lord Beaverbrook, as Chancellor, and UNB President Colin B. Mackay, to permanently move the Saint John Law School to the UNB Fredericton campus, despite the Dean's objections.\n\nIn the fall of 2007, a report commissioned by the provincial government recommended that UNBSJ and the New Brunswick Community College be reformed and consolidated into a new polytechnic post-secondary institute. The proposal immediately came under heavy criticism and led to the several organized protests. Under heavy fire from the public, the Graham government eventually announced that it would set aside the possibility of UNB Saint John losing its status as a university and would refer the report to a working group for further study. The government would go on to announce in January that UNBSJ would retain its liberal arts program and its association with UNB and the working group reported back to government in May, with its findings and government's response being made public in June.\n\nCurrently UNBF has approximately 9,000 students while UNBSJ has 3,000. Though UNBF has more students at the moment, UNSBT is growing at a faster rate. Both campuses have undergone significant expansion over the years, and many University buildings have received funding from Lord Beaverbrook and other prominent industrialists and philanthropists. UNB's largest expansion coincided with the baby boom, when its Fredericton campus tripled in size.\n\nThe UNB Fredericton campus is located on a hill overlooking the Saint John River. The campus is well known for its colourful fall foliage, Georgian style red-brick buildings, and a very steep hill. UNB Fredericton has shared the \"College Hill\" with St. Thomas University (STU) since 1964, when the former St. Thomas College moved from Chatham, NB (now Miramichi). While the universities share some infrastructure, they remain separate institutions.\n\nArchitect G. Ernest Fairweather designed several of the campus buildings, including the Old Civil Engineering Building (1900) and the Gymnasium (1906). In addition, several of the stained glass windows in the Convocation Hall were created by Robert McCausland Limited.\n\nUNBF's War Memorial Hall (usually referred to as Memorial Hall), originally built as a science building in 1924, honours the 35 UNB Alumni who died in World War I.\n\nUNBF's Brigadier Milton F. Gregg, V.C., Centre for the Study of War and Society (usually referred to as The Gregg Centre) was created in 2006.\n\nThe Richard J. Currie Center, a five-storey 139,000-square-foot building, was constructed in 2013.\n\nTwo buildings on the Fredericton campus have been designated National Historic Sites of Canada: the 1827 Sir Howard Douglas Hall (the Old Arts Building), and the 1851 William Brydone Jack Observatory.\n\nThe UNB Saint John campus (UNBSJ) is located in Tucker Park in the Millidgeville neighbourhood, several kilometres north of the city's central business district, and has views of the Kennebecasis River and Grand Bay. New Brunswick's largest health care facility, Saint John Regional Hospital, is located adjacent to the UNBSJ campus. Since 2010, the UNBSJ campus has been home to Dalhousie Medicine New Brunswick, a medical school that operates as a partnership between the Government of New Brunswick, the University of New Brunswick and Dalhousie’s Faculty of Medicine.\n\nThe Saint John campus has undergone expansion over the years and is the fastest growing component of the UNB system with many new buildings constructed between the 1970s and the first decade of the 21st century. A trend in recent years has been a growth in the number of international students.\nNotable differences from its parent campus in Fredericton lay in the campus culture. While UNB Fredericton has a substantial number of students living in its on-campus residences, this is not the case for UNBSJ. The majority of students do not live within walking distance of the campus due to its remote location, so unlike Fredericton, Saint John is predominantly a \"commuter campus\".\n\nApril 1, 2010, the construction on the Hans W. Klohn Commons began. This building is one of the most environmentally friendly buildings in Atlantic Canada. The building features an electric elevator that produces power for the commons. The building is part of the Tucker Park enhancement project, which will include the refurbishment of the Canada Games Stadium, the new Dalhousie Medicine New Brunswick facility, and the New Brunswick Community College’s Allied Health building.\n\nThe University of New Brunswick has attempted to reduce its environmental impact through installing a natural gas burning microturbine at the Central Heating Plant that produces 100 kW of electricity for the university.\nHeat energy, a result of this process, is used to contribute to the overall heating of the campus to increase its overall energy efficiency. In addition, all produce and dairy products used within its dining services are obtained from local farmers and local producers; the campus offers grass-fed beef, fair trade coffee, and dining locations offer biodegradable to-go containers. UNB recycles electronics in addition to traditional materials and operates a move-out materials collection program. The university adheres to a green purchasing policy and has reduced greenhouse gas emissions 26 percent since 1990; they have also decreased water consumption since 2005 through the adoption of new technologies. With these efforts to create a more sustainable campus, the University of New Brunswick received an overall \"B+\" grade in the 2011 College Sustainability Report Card put out by the Sustainable Endowment’s Institute.\n\nThere are over 75 undergraduate programs, the school of Graduate Studies offers course and research-based programs in over 30 fields and UNB has a 16:1 student-to-faculty ratio.\n\nUNB is the seat of 11 Canada Research Chairs and is home to more than 60 research centres and institutes. It conducts about 75 per cent of all university research in the province. UNB's annual research spending (2013–14) generated $32.2 million in added provincial income for the New Brunswick economy. Between 2004 and 2009, the university's research revenue increased by 77 per cent: the highest increase among Canadian comprehensive universities.\n\nUNB has developed technology used by Google, is a research partner with the NASA Jet Propulsion Laboratory, is a global leader in powered prosthetic research and developing MRI technology, and is home to one of the motion analysis labs in North America as well as the world’s first research centre in dermoskeletics.\n\nIn 2014, UNB was awarded the most entrepreneurial university in Canada by Startup Canada. The university has also supported in launching 23 new startup companies as of 2015.\n\nIn 2019, \"Maclean's\" magazine ranked UNB 8th out of 15 universities placed in the publication's \"comprehensive university\" category. For several years running, UNB's libraries have been ranked in the top spot nationally in terms of the percentage of the overall budget devoted to libraries and in terms of holdings per student.\n\nIn 2012, UNB's law school was ranked 2nd nationally in elite firm hiring by \"Maclean's\". According to Canadian Lawyer Magazine, the law school ranks among the top five in Canada.\n\nIn 2008, the \"National Post\" and the \"Ottawa Citizen\" recognized UNB as being among the top three comprehensive research universities in Canada for the highest percentage growth of research income across a five-year period.\n\nBecause so many of UNB's students, alumni, and professors have produced celebrated poetry, the city of Fredericton has earned the nickname \"Poets' Corner.\" Two of Canada's four Confederation Poets – Sir Charles G.D. Roberts and Bliss Carman – were educated at UNB, as was Francis Joseph Sherman, along with a number of notable 20th- and 21st-century Canadian writers. In 1947, the Historic Sites and Monuments Board of Canada unveiled a \"Poet's Corner\" monument in honour of Carman, Roberts, and Sherman.\n\nThe Institute of Biomedical Engineering (IBME) on the Fredericton campus is one of the research institutes in biomedical engineering in Canada. It was founded in 1965 as the Bio-Engineering Institute, making it one of the oldest research institutes to be solely dedicated to the field of biomedical engineering. The institute is also the region's prosthetic fitting centre where amputees are fitted with \"intelligent\" artificial limbs. The institute also carries out research in the field of myoelectric signal processing, biomedical instrumentation and human motion analysis. The IBME also developed the UNB Test of Prosthetic Function which is used by researchers all over the world. Although the institute does not offer degrees in biomedical engineering, students at UNB usually enroll in one of the other faculties of engineering such as electrical or mechanical and pursue their research in biomedical engineering at the IBME.\n\nThe Canadian Rivers Institute was founded in 2000 and is a site of river sciences research. The mandate of the CRI is to conduct both multi-disciplinary basic and applied research focusing on rivers from their headwaters to their estuaries, to promote the conservation, protection and sustainable use of water, and to educate professionals, graduate students and the public on water sciences. Members of the CRI conduct research on regional, national and international issues related to rivers and their land-water linkages.\n\nWith researchers from both UNB campuses, the CRI develops the aquatic science needed to understand, protect and sustain water resources. Since 2013, the CRI and its partners have been working with NB Power to research the potential environmental impacts of the future options being considered for the Mactaquac Generating Station. The Mactaquac Dam on the Saint John River will reach the end of its lifespan by 2030, and CRI has been evaluating key environmental challenges such as river health, fish passage and flow management. In 2015, CRI was given an additional $2.8 million from the Natural Sciences and Engineering Research Council (NSERC) to conduct an aquatic ecosystem study on the Saint John River.\n\nUNB created its BEd program for First Nations students in 1977 in an effort to help First Nations communities take control of their own schools. In 1981, the Mi'kmaq-Maliseet Institute opened its doors with an expanded mandate to train professionals and improve First Nations access to First Nations education. The Institute provides a variety of services, including research, curriculum development, language education, policy development, children's literacy, and more. In addition, the Institute funds the Mi'kmaq-Maliseet Resource Collection, which contains materials that are immensely valuable to knowledge of First Nations culture, history, and perspective in the region.\n\nThe Canadian Research Institute for Social Policy was founded in 1996 as the Atlantic Centre for Policy Research, supported by the Canadian Institute For Advanced Research. The name change took effect in January, 2000. The institute was designated as a Statistics Canada Research Data Centre in 2002. The institute brings interdisciplinary researchers together to focus on issues pertaining to social policy on a national and international level, specifically issues relevant to children and youth development. Projects included the New Brunswick Schools Early Literacy Initiative; Mapping Literacy as a Determinant of Healt;, Raising and Leveling the Bar: A Collaborative Research Initiative on Children's Learning, Behavioural, and Health Outcomes; and the Confident Learners Initiative..\n\nThe University of New Brunswick's Medical Training Centre is the first anglophone school of medicine in New Brunswick. It is a joint medical programme, offered with Dalhousie University Faculty of Medicine.\n\nUNB awards over five million dollars in scholarships each year. These include the Blake-Kirkpatrick, Beaverbrook, and President's scholarships. With $7.2 million available in undergraduate scholarships, one in two students entering UNB from high school received a scholarship as of 2015. UNB has a scholarship guarantee in which any admitted student with an average of 80% or higher will receive a guaranteed amount of five hundred dollars.\n\nAs a member of the Loran Scholars university consortium, UNB offers a matching tuition waiver as part of a $100,000 undergraduate scholarship to recognize incoming students who demonstrate \"exemplary character, service and leadership\". Five Loran Scholars have studied at UNB over the years. Additionally, it is part of the Schulich Leader Scholarships program, awarding an $80,000 STEM scholarship to an incoming engineering student and a $60,000 scholarship to a science, technology, or mathematics student each year.\n\nUNB has approximately 10,000 students from over 100 countries. The small class sizes and low student-to-professor ratio (16:1) mean professors get to know their students by name. Students have over 125 clubs and societies to choose from between the Fredericton and Saint John campuses and there are 13 residences available to students in Fredericton and two in Saint John. Students on both campuses have access to UNB's facilities, fitness classes and outdoor activities such as snowshoeing and kayaking. There are exchanges available in more than 35 countries around the world with over 89 university partners.\n\nUNB Fredericton is represented in U Sports by the UNB Varsity Reds while UNBSJ is represented by the UNBSJ Seawolves. The Varsity Reds compete in the following sports: men's and women's basketball, men's hockey, men's and women's soccer, men's and women's volleyball, and swimming. Men's and women's track & field and cross country were added as a varsity sport for 2010/2011; this is a joint Fredericton/Saint John Campus program.\n\nIn the past, UNBF used different names for each individual sport's team; for instance, the men's swim team was the Beavers, and the hockey team was the Red Devils. The university club teams, which are supported financially by the Student Union as well as by individual members of the teams, do not use the Varsity Reds name and thus continue the tradition of using different nicknames for each sport.\n\nTraditional among a number of songs commonly played and sung at various times such as commencement, convocation, and athletic events are \"Carmina Universitatis Novi Brunsvici\", \"Alma Mater\" (1904), and \"UNB Anthem\", with words by A.G. Bailey and music by D.V. Start.\nColloquial songs included \"Bombers Away\" to celebrate the football team:\nBombers away, my boys\nBombers away,\n'Cause when you fight red bombers.\nFight you Bombers, Fight you Bombers,\nFight, Fight, Fight.\n\n\nAs of 2012, the University of New Brunswick reports 64,000 living alumni, half of whom live in New Brunswick.\n\n\n\nThe university presses, \"The Baron\" and \"The Brunswickan\", are members of Canadian University Press. Publishing since 1867, \"The Brunswickan\" is the oldest official student publication in Canada.\n\nUNB is also home to several notable magazines and journals, such as \"The Fiddlehead\" and \"Studies in Canadian Literature\".\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "21566707", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21566707", "title": "University of Palermo (Buenos Aires)", "text": "University of Palermo (Buenos Aires)\n\nThe University of Palermo (Spanish: \"Universidad de Palermo\", abbreviated as UP) is a leading private university located in Buenos Aires, Argentina. It has several buildings located in different parts of the city. The university offers several educational programs, including a double degree in Management awarded along with the London School of Economics. It has ties with the universities of Yale, Harvard and NYU among others and It is regarded as one of the best private universities in Argentina, constantly ranking in the top 5.\n\nThe University of Palermo's library has more than 45,000 volumes, including audio-visual and printed material. The collection can be searched through the Internet. Its director is Roberto Cagnolli\n\nThe university has 7 departments with a total of more than 13,000 students, who come from all over the world.\nIn 1986 a group of academics and intellectuals established the \"Fundación Universidad de Palermo\" (University of Palermo Foundation), with the idea of creating a university with the same name.\n\nThe University of Palermo maintains ties with renowned international universities. Among the institutions that hold agreements with the university are: Yale, Harvard, NYU, , Peking University, USC, IIT, The Royal Danish Academy of Fine Arts and the Monterrey Institute of Technology and Higher Education). Besides, the University of Palermo is host to one of the UNESCO chairs, is a member of the ISEP, and a member of AACSB, and its Architecture career has been accredited by the Royal Institute of British Architects.\nAcademic agreements range from the exchange or visit by professors and alumni to joint research projects.\n\nIt's engineering department has recently tied as a member of the IEEE.\n\nAs a leading university, the Universidad de Palermo has been recognized by the following rankings:\n\nUP is widely considered to be one of the best institutions of higher education in Argentina. QS World University Rankings[7] has ranked UP 5th overall and 4th among private institutions in Argentina in 2017 and has been placed in the top 20 in latinamerica for several years in a row.[8] The university is also ranked 1st in Design and Communication among private institutions and 2nd overall, only behind University of Buenos Aires.[8]\n\n"}
{"id": "18856625", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18856625", "title": "Vempati Chinna Satyam", "text": "Vempati Chinna Satyam\n\nVempati Chinna Satyam (15 October 1929 – 29 July 2012) was an Indian dancer and a guru of the Kuchipudi dance form.\n\nChinna Satyam was born in Kuchipudi, Andhra Pradesh. He was taught by Vedantam Lakshmi Narayana Sastry. He then refined his art by learning from Sri Tadepally Perrayya Sastry and later was trained by his elder brother Sri Vempati Pedda Satyam in expressions. As he learnt the nuances of this style of dance, he was successful in popularising the Kuchipudi dance form all over the world. He died of old age related problems at the age of 83 on 29 July 2012.\n\nChinna Satyam sublimated and systematised Kuchipudi, giving it a more classical basis. He refined the art form, bringing it closer to the standards of \"Natya Shastra\" and gave it a whole new perspective and introduced new elements, e.g. chari (leg movements) of Natya Shastra that are significantly different from the interpretations of other dance authorities, such as Padma Subrahmanyam. Previously, it had been considered a \"rustic\" (folk) form of dance.\n\nChinna Satyam started the Kuchipudi Art Academy at Madras in 1963. The Academy has to its credit more than 180 solo items and 15 dance dramas composed and choreographed by Satyam. These solo items and dramas have been staged all over India and abroad. He composed his first dance drama \"Sri Krishna Parijatham\" in the same period followed by another hit \"Ksheera Sagara Madanam\" and played the lead role. His portrayal of Lord Shiva and his choreography was well received.\n\nChinna Satyam was conferred with many titles and awards such as \"Sangeet Peeth of Bombay\", \"Asthana Natyacharya of Tirumala Tirupati Devasthanam\", \"T.T.K. Memorial Award\" by Madras Music Academy, \"Natya Kalasaagara of Waltair\", \"Raja-Lakshmi Award of Madras\", \"Kalaprapoorna\" from Andhra University, \"Natya Kala Bhushana of Guntur\", \"Bharatha Kalaprapoorna of Hyderabad\", D. Litt. from Sri Venkateswara University, \"Asthana Natyacharya of Pittsburgh\", and \"National Award from Central Sangeet Naatak Akademi, New Delhi\". He was awarded by many state governments of India such as Kalidas Puraskar by the Government of Madhya Pradesh and Kalaimamani by the Government of Tamil Nadu. He was honored with a Doctorate degree by Andhra University. He was also awarded the Padma Bhushan by the Government of India.\n"}
{"id": "24020756", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24020756", "title": "Wallball", "text": "Wallball\n\nWallball is a type of school yard game similar to butts up, aces-kings-queens, Chinese handball, Pêl-Law (Welsh handball) and American handball (American handball is sometimes actually referred to as wallball). Kenny Mott is the founding father of wallball. The sport was played by a few schools in the Brandon Manitoba, then began gaining much popularity, resulting in a popular worldwide sport. Wallball is now played globally with the international federation, Wall Ball International, promoting the game. The game requires the ball to be hit to the floor before hitting the wall, but in other respects is similar to squash. It can be played as a singles, doubles or elimination game.\n\nWallball is derived from many New York City street games played by young people, often involving the Spalding hi-bounce balls created in 1949.\n\nThe objective of wallball is to eliminate all other players in order to be the last player standing, or to be the starter of the game continuously (if the game is endless).\n\nThe aim of the game is to hit the ball against a wall. If the person hits the wall and the ball bounces out of play the person next in line loses a life. People first decide who serves. This procedure varies, but is usually the winner of the previous game or the person who got the ball (if that would be the first game), or the new person coming in. The server first hits the ball forward and down so that it hits the ground and bounces up to hit the wall. (If the server is a good sport, an easy ball is started with to get the game going.) If it bounces on the ground more than once or if it doesn't bounce on the ground before it hits the wall, it is considered out. Then, after hitting the ball, the ball would bounce back, and the next person would do the same thing. If the ball bounces more than once before the second player hits it the second person is out, but hitting the ball before it bounces is allowed after the first person hits the ball. If the ball bounces out of bounds (the boundaries are usually determined by the orange lines surrounding the field) at any time, it is considered out, and if it hits the orange line, it is sometimes considered in, sometimes considered out, and sometimes considered a \"liney\" or \"liner\" in which the game stops and the person who made the liney serves again. The goal is to get the person behind you out by hitting it with the right force and in the right direction. There are sometimes rules called \"first serves\", in which the server doesn't get out until the third time the server gets out.\n\nThere are many variations to the rules, but the rules above are the classic ones. Babies, in which the ball on the second bounce is smaller than the closest interior orange line to the wall (there are two orange lines; one is about three-four feet from the wall, and the other one is about two-thirds of the court away from the wall) and sliceys (or skimmers), where the ball goes at an extremely high speed and extremely low height, are very common varying things (in or out).\n\nThere are four main types of wallball: regular, teams, line-up, and random.\n\n\nIn line-up or random, the winner of each game usually decides the rules and game style of the next game (usually with the classic rules, but the winner usually has the right to change them, though if enough people disagree, the idea is usually not used), and in regular or teams, the first person to beat the whole line gets to determine the rules and game style of the next game. If playing with a soccer ball/football, they have to hit it wherever it lies, if against.Players stand a few feet away from the wall. They may only get three outs (no outs if you want the game to be endless). A player serves the ball by throwing directly at the wall. The ball then should return to another player. It is not an out if you get the ball again but is considered unfair if you intended to get the ball back (however, if the ball returns to you three times, it is formally known as a \"tea party\", and you are out). If the ball bounces first, it is an out. If you drop the ball or the ball hits you, you will have to get to the wall before someone else throws the ball and hits the wall or you will get an out. If you get the ball that is out-of-bounds, players are permitted to shout \"challenge!\" During challenges, you have to throw the ball from the same place where you picked up the ball. You may only take tiny steps then throw or move backwards. If you move anywhere else, you will get an out. These alternative rules are more common in the Midwest and Canada. In Australia however the rules are slightly different where there are rules for spiking. Spiking is when the ball hits another player on the full without bouncing and the player which is hit goes on the wall. Some versions are played using two walls adjacent to each other, called \"cube ball\" where the same rules apply except two walls are used instead of one. Another, called \"Aceball\", is similar to wallball except that the ball is hit on the wall without a bounce, then allowed to bounce once before a returning hit is required from the other player. Aceball can be played by kicking it as well, though it is no where near as prominent.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "770114", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=770114", "title": "Western Association of Schools and Colleges", "text": "Western Association of Schools and Colleges\n\nThe Western Association of Schools and Colleges (WASC) is an official academic body responsible for the accreditation of public and private universities, colleges, secondary and elementary schools in California and Hawaii, its territories of Guam, American Samoa and Northern Marianas Islands, in addition to the Federated States of Micronesia, Palau, the Pacific Rim, East Asia, and areas of the Pacific and East Asia.\n\nWASC is divided into three groups: the Accrediting Commission for Schools (ACS WASC), the Accrediting Commission for Community and Junior Colleges (ACCJC), and the WASC Senior College and University Commission (WSCUC).\n\nThe Accrediting Commission for Schools (ACS WASC) accredits schools below the college level. Included are elementary, junior high, middle, high and adult schools, whether public, private, or church-related.\n\nThe Accrediting Commission for Community and Junior Colleges (ACCJC) evaluates and accredits public and private postsecondary institutions that offer two-year education programs and award the associate degree.\n\nThe ACCJC's mission is to help member institutions \"to advance educational quality and student learning and achievement. This collaboration fosters institutional excellence and continuous improvement through innovation, self-analysis, peer review, and application of standards.\"\n\nThe WASC Senior College and University Commission (WSCUC) is a regional accrediting agency serving a diverse membership of public and private higher education institutions throughout California, Hawaii, and the Pacific, as well as a limited number of institutions outside the U.S. Jamienne S. Studley serves as president and CEO of the organization.\n\nThrough its work of peer review, based on standards agreed to by the membership, the Commission encourages continuous institutional improvement and assures the membership and its constituencies, including the public, that accredited institutions are fulfilling their missions in service to their students and the public good. WSCUC is recognized by the U.S. Department of Education as certifying institutional eligibility for federal funding in a number of programs, including student access to federal financial aid.\n\nEach WASC branch has a unique Commission made up of academic experts whose role is to help assure institutional quality. Commissioners serve revolving three-year terms.\n\nThe ACS WASC Commission consists of up to thirty-two persons selected by the Commission’s Nomination Review Committee from candidates nominated by member organizations or the Commission. Stephen Cathers serves as chair of the ACS WASC Commission, and Gregory Franklin serves as Vice Chair. A full list of commissioners is available here.\n\nThe ACCJC Commission has 19 members, elected by ACCJC member institutions. Representatives of the California Community Colleges Chancellor’s Office and the system office of the University must be included on the Commission. Additionally, at least five Commission members must be academic representatives (faculty), up to five Commissioners are from the public, and at least three are administrative representatives that are two-year college administrators. There must also be Commissioners representing independent institutions, secondary educational institutions accredited by the ACCJC, four-year colleges and universities accredited by WSCUC, and institutions in the American Affiliated Pacific Islands.\n\nDr.Raúl Rodríguez serves as Chair of the ACCJC Commission and Dr. Ian Walton is Vice Chair. A full list of commissioners is available here.\n\nThe WSCUC Commission is made up of 33 members, including at least three public members, a representative from the Pacific Basin, a representative from the Accrediting Commission for Community and Junior Colleges (ACCJC), and a representative from the Accrediting Commission for Schools (ACS WASC). Commissioners are nominated and elected by the chief executive officers of accredited institutions in the WASC region and serve overlapping three-year terms.\n\nDr. Reed Dasenbrock serves as WSCUC Chair, and Linda Buckley serves as Vice Chair. A full list of WSCUC commissioners is available here.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "36922578", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36922578", "title": "École nationale des sciences appliquées de Tétouan", "text": "École nationale des sciences appliquées de Tétouan\n\nThe École nationale des sciences appliquées de Tétouan (National school of applied sciences of Tetouan) is a public engineering school in Morocco established in September, 2008. The school is located in Tetouan, Morocco. It is part of the National Schools of Applied Sciences-ENSA and Abdelmalek Essaâdi University.\n\nThe school's main goals are:\n\n\n"}
