{"id": "10715801", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10715801", "title": "1593 in art", "text": "1593 in art\n\nThe year 1593 in art involved some significant events and new works.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "28073492", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28073492", "title": "Abri de la Madeleine", "text": "Abri de la Madeleine\n\nThe Abri de la Madeleine (Magdalene Shelter) is a prehistoric shelter under an overhanging cliff situated near Tursac, in the Dordogne département and the Aquitaine Région of South-Western France. The Magdalenian culture of the Upper Paleolithic is named after it, as the type site. Prehistoric finds from the site include the Bison Licking Insect Bite, a carving estimated 20,000 BC. The shelter was reoccupied during the Middle Ages. The medieval castle of Petit Marsac stands on the top of the cliff just above the shelter.\n\nÉdouard Lartet & Henry Christy were the first systematic excavators of the site, and published their findings in 1875 as the Age of the Reindeer (\"L'âge du renne\"). Finds from la Madeleine are distributed among a number of museums, including the Muséum de Toulouse, the Musee des Antiquites Nationales, St. Germain-en-Laye and the British Museum.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "35672758", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35672758", "title": "Adolf Ebert", "text": "Adolf Ebert\n\nGeorg Karl Wilhelm Adolf Ebert (1 June 1820, in Kassel – 1 July 1890, in Leipzig) was a Romance philologist and literary historian. He was an author of literary studies as well as a publisher of periodicals, including the \"Jahrbuch für Romanische und Englische Literatur\".\n\nWolf studied in Marburg, Leipzig, Göttingen, and Berlin between 1840 and 1843, was appointed as professor at the University of Marburg, and in 1862 came to occupy the newly founded chair of Romance philology at the University of Leipzig. With Ferdinand Wolf he founded and edited the \"Jahrbuch für Romanische und Englische Literatur\", until 1863, when it was taken over by Ludwig Lemcke.\n\nHe was the author of the three volume \"Allgemeine Geschichte der Literatur des Mittelalters im Abendlande\" (\"General history of literature of the Middle Ages in the West\").\n\n"}
{"id": "23884971", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23884971", "title": "African Economic Outlook", "text": "African Economic Outlook\n\nAfrican Economic Outlook is an annual reference book-journal which focuses on the economics of most African countries. It reviews the recent economic situation and predicts the short-term interrelated economic, social, and political evolution of all African economies. The report is published by the OECD Development Centre, the African Development Bank, the United Nations Development Programme and United Nations Economic Commission for Africa. It was established in 2002.\n\nThis annual publication covers economic policy, conditions, and outlook for most of the economies of Africa. It includes macroeconomic forecasting for the current and the following year, combined with an analysis of its social and political context. Comparative synthesis of the prospects for African countries in the context of global economics is part of this periodical. Finally, a statistical appendix currently has 24 tables comparing economic and social variables across all the countries of Africa.\n\nFor example, topic coverage includes the international environment, macroeconomic performances in Africa, structural changes, economic reforms, external financial flows to Africa, assessment of privatization policies, and reduction of poverty as a challenge for the future. Moreover, coverage includes governance, political issues, regional trade policies, and regional integration.\n\n"}
{"id": "22409612", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22409612", "title": "AmeriCorps VISTA", "text": "AmeriCorps VISTA\n\nAmeriCorps VISTA is a national service program designed to alleviate poverty. President John F. Kennedy originated the idea for VISTA, which was founded as Volunteers in Service to America in 1965, and incorporated into the AmeriCorps network of programs in 1993. VISTA is an initialism for Volunteers in Service to America.\n\nOn May 23, 2017, the President sent his official Fiscal Year 2018 (FY 2018) Budget request to Congress. As previously outlined in the President’s Budget Blueprint released in March, this budget proposes the elimination of the Corporation for National and Community Service (CNCS) in FY 2018, and provides funding for an orderly shutdown, including all CNCS programs, such as Senior Corps and AmeriCorps (which includes VISTA and NCCC).\n\nVISTA is an anti-poverty program created by Lyndon Johnson's Economic Opportunity Act of 1964 as the domestic version of the Peace Corps. Initially, the program increased employment opportunities for conscientious people who felt they could contribute tangibly to the War on Poverty. Volunteers served in communities throughout the U.S., focusing on enriching educational programs and vocational training for the nation's underprivileged classes.\n\nVISTA's legislative purpose, as defined under the Domestic Volunteer Service Act (DVSA) of 1973, is to supplement efforts to fight poverty in low-income communities by engaging Americans from all walks of life in a year of full-time service. VISTA members support the program's purpose through three primary objectives: 1) encouraging volunteer service at the local level, 2) generating the commitment of private sector resources, and 3) strengthening local agencies and organizations that serve low-income communities. There are currently over 5,000 VISTA members serving in over 1,000 projects throughout the nation.\n\nDuring the Clinton Administration, VISTA was brought under the newly created AmeriCorps program, a division of the Corporation for National and Community Service, and was renamed \"AmeriCorps*VISTA\". VISTA members sign up with a host agency to a full-time term of service – 365 days. In return for their service, members are provided with orientation and training, a living stipend calculated at no less than 105% of the poverty line, settling in and transportation costs, child care benefits, and a basic health care plan. Upon completion of their one-year term, VISTA members have the option of receiving a cash award or the Segal AmeriCorps Education Award.\n\nThe first Director of VISTA was Glenn W. Ferguson and there have been many appointed and acting directors since then. Eileen Conboy currently serves as the Acting Director for AmeriCorps VISTA.\n\nCreated by the National and Community Service Trust Act of 1993, the Corporation for National and Community Service Office of Inspector General (OIG) conducts and supervises independent and objective audits and investigations of Corporation programs and operations. Based on the results of these audits, reviews, and investigations, the OIG recommends policies to promote economy and efficiency and prevent and detect fraud and abuse in the Corporation's programs and operations.\n\n"}
{"id": "51320", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51320", "title": "Ancient history", "text": "Ancient history\n\nAncient history as a term refers to the aggregate of past events from the beginning of writing and recorded human history and extending as far as the post-classical history. The phrase may be used either to refer to the period of time or the academic discipline.\n\nThe span of recorded history is roughly 5,000 years, beginning with Sumerian Cuneiform script; the oldest discovered form of coherent writing from the protoliterate period around the 30th century BC. Ancient History covers all continents inhabited by humans in the 3,000 BC – 500 AD period.\n\nThe broad term Ancient History is not to be confused with \"Classical Antiquity\". The term classical antiquity is often used to refer to Western History in the Ancient Mediterranean from the beginning of recorded Greek history in 776 BC (First Olympiad). This roughly coincides with the traditional date of the founding of Rome in 753 BC, the beginning of the history of ancient Rome, and the beginning of the Archaic period in Ancient Greece.\n\nThe academic term \"history\" is additionally not to be confused with colloquial references to times past. History is fundamentally the study of the past through documents, and can be either scientific (archaeology) or humanistic (history through language).\n\nAlthough the ending date of ancient history is disputed, some Western scholars use the fall of the Western Roman Empire in 476 AD (the most used), the closure of the Platonic Academy in 529 AD, the death of the emperor Justinian I in 565 AD, the coming of Islam or the rise of Charlemagne as the end of ancient and Classical European history. Outside of Europe the 450-500 time frame for the end of ancient times has had difficulty as a transition date from Ancient to Post-Classical times.\n\nDuring the time period of 'Ancient History' starting roughly from 3000 BC world population was already exponentially increasing due to the Neolithic Revolution which was in full progress. According to HYDE estimates from the Netherlands world population increased exponentially in this period. At 10,000 BC in Prehistory world population had stood at 2 million, rising to 45 million by 3,000 BC. By the rise of the Iron Age in 1,000 BC that population had risen to 72 million. By the end of the period in 500 AD world population stood possibly at 209 million.\n\nHistorians have two major avenues which they take to better understand the ancient world: archaeology and the study of source texts. Primary sources are those sources closest to the origin of the information or idea under study. Primary sources have been distinguished from secondary sources, which often cite, comment on, or build upon primary sources.\n\nArchaeology is the excavation and study of artefacts in an effort to interpret and reconstruct past human behavior. Archaeologists excavate the ruins of ancient cities looking for clues as to how the people of the time period lived. Some important discoveries by archaeologists studying ancient history include:\n\nMost of what is known of the ancient world comes from the accounts of antiquity's own historians. Although it is important to take into account the bias of each ancient author, their accounts are the basis for our understanding of the ancient past. Some of the more notable ancient writers include Herodotus, Thucydides, Arrian, Plutarch, Polybius, Sima Qian, Sallust, Livy, Josephus, Suetonius, and Tacitus.\n\nA fundamental difficulty of studying ancient history is that recorded histories cannot document the entirety of human events, and only a fraction of those documents have survived into the present day. Furthermore, the reliability of the information obtained from these surviving records must be considered. Few people were capable of writing histories, as literacy was not widespread in almost any culture until long after the end of ancient history.\n\nThe earliest known systematic historical thought emerged in ancient Greece, beginning with Herodotus of Halicarnassus (484–c. 425 BC). Thucydides largely eliminated divine causality in his account of the war between Athens and Sparta, establishing a rationalistic element which set a precedent for subsequent Western historical writings. He was also the first to distinguish between cause and immediate origins of an event.\n\nThe Roman Empire was one of the ancient world's most literate cultures, but many works by its most widely read historians are lost. For example, Livy, a Roman historian who lived in the 1st century BC, wrote a history of Rome called \"Ab Urbe Condita\" (\"From the Founding of the City\") in 144 volumes; only 35 volumes still exist, although short summaries of most of the rest do exist. Indeed, only a minority of the work of any major Roman historian has survived.\n\nClick the above link to find a listed timeline that provides an overview for Ancient History. Its context ranges from 3200 BC to 400 AD.\n\nPrehistory is the period before written history. The early human migrations in the Lower Paleolithic saw Homo erectus spread across Eurasia 1.8 million years ago. The controlled use of fire occurred 800,000 years ago in the Middle Paleolithic. 250,000 years ago, Homo sapiens (modern humans) emerged in Africa. 60–70,000 years ago, Homo sapiens migrated out of Africa along a coastal route to South and Southeast Asia and reached Australia. 50,000 years ago, modern humans spread from Asia to the Near East. Europe was first reached by modern humans 40,000 years ago. Humans migrated to the Americas about 15,000 years ago in the Upper Paleolithic.\n\nThe 10th millennium BC is the earliest given date for the invention of agriculture and the beginning of the ancient era. Göbekli Tepe was erected by hunter-gatherers in the 10th millennium BC (c. 11,500 years ago), before the advent of sedentism. Together with Nevalı Çori, it has revolutionized understanding of the Eurasian Neolithic. In the 7th millennium BC, Jiahu culture began in China. By the 5th millennium BC, the late Neolithic civilizations saw the invention of the wheel and the spread of proto-writing. In the 4th millennium BC, the Cucuteni-Trypillian culture in the Ukraine-Moldova-Romania region develops. By 3400 BC, \"proto-literate\" cuneiform is spread in the Middle East. The 30th century BC, referred to as the Early Bronze Age II, saw the beginning of the literate period in Mesopotamia and Ancient Egypt. Around the 27th century BC, the Old Kingdom of Egypt and the First Dynasty of Uruk are founded, according to the earliest reliable regnal eras.\n\nThe Bronze Age forms part of the three-age system. It follows the Neolithic Age in some areas of the world. In most areas of civilization Bronze smelting became a foundation for more advanced societies. There was some contrast with New World Societies who often still preferred stone to metal for utilitarian purposes. Modern historians have identified five original civilizations which emerged in the time period.\n\nThe first civilization emerged in Sumer in the southern region of Mesopotamia now part of modern-day Iraq. By 3,000 B.C, Sumerian city states had collectively formed civilization, with government, religion, diversity of labor and writing. Among the city states Ur was among the most significant.\nIn the 24th century BC, the Akkadian Empire was founded in Mesopotamia. From Sumer, civilization and Bronze smelting spread westward to Egypt, Minoa and the Hittites.\n\nThe First Intermediate Period of Egypt of the 22nd century BC was followed by the Middle Kingdom of Egypt between the 21st to 17th centuries BC. The Sumerian Renaissance also developed c. the 21st century BC in Ur. Around the 18th century BC, the Second Intermediate Period of Egypt began. Egypt was a superpower at the time. By 1600 BC, Mycenaean Greece developed and invaded the remains of Minoan Civilization. The beginning of Hittite dominance of the Eastern Mediterranean region is also seen in the 1600s BC. The time from the 16th to the 11th centuries BC around the Nile is called the New Kingdom of Egypt. Between 1550 BC and 1292 BC, the Amarna Period developed in Egypt.\n\nEast of Persia, was the Indus River Valley civilization which organized cities neatly on grid patterns.\nHowever the Indus River Valley civilization diminished after 1900 BC and was later replaced with Indo-Ayran peoples who established Vedic Culture.\n\nThe beginning of the Shang dynasty emerged in China in this period, and there was evidence of a fully developed Chinese writing system. The Shang Dynasty is the first Chinese regime recognized by western scholars though Chinese historians insist that the Xia Dynasty preceded it. The Shang Dynasty practiced forced labor to complete public projects. There is evidence of massive ritual burial.\n\nThe Iron Age is the last principal period in the three-age system, preceded by the Bronze Age. Its date and context vary depending on the country or geographical region. The Iron Age over all was characterized by the prevalent smelting of iron with Ferrous metallurgy and the use of Carbon steel. Smelted iron proved more durable than earlier metals such as Copper or Bronze and allowed for more productive societies. The Iron Age took place at different times in different parts of the world, and comes to an end when a society began to maintain historical records.\n\nDuring the 13th to 12th centuries BC, the Ramesside Period occurred in Egypt. Around 1200 BC, the Trojan War was thought to have taken place. By around 1180 BC, the disintegration of the Hittite Empire was under way. The collapse of the Hitties was part of the larger scale Bronze Age Collapse which took place in the Ancient Near East around 1200 BC. In Greece the Mycenae and Minona both disintegrated. A wave of Sea Peoples attacked many countries, only Egypt survived intact. Afterwards some entirely new successor civilizations arose in the Eastern Mediterranean.\n\nIn 1046 BC, the Zhou force, led by King Wu of Zhou, overthrew the last king of the Shang dynasty. The Zhou dynasty was established in China shortly thereafter. During this Zhou era China embraced a feudal society of decentralized power. Iron Age China then dissolved into the warring states period where possibly millions of soldiers fought each other over feudal struggles.\n\nPirak is an early iron-age site in Balochistan, Pakistan, going back to about 1200 BC. This period is believed to be the beginning of the Iron Age in India and the subcontinent. Around the same time came the Vedas, the oldest sacred texts for the Hindu Religion.\nIn 1000 BC, the Mannaean Kingdom began in Western Asia. Around the 10th to 7th centuries BC, the Neo-Assyrian Empire developed in Mesopotamia. In 800 BC, the rise of Greek city-states began. In 776 BC, the first recorded Olympic Games were held. In contrast to neighboring cultures the Greek City states did not become a single militaristic empire but competed with each other as separate \"polis\" .\n\nThe preceding Iron Age is often thought to had ended in the Middle East around 550 BC due to the rise of Historiography (the historical record). The Axial Age is used to describe history between 800 and 200 BC of Eurasia, including Ancient Greece, Persia, India and China. Widespread trade and communication between distinct regions in this period, including the rise of the Silk Road. This period saw the rise of philosophy and proselytizing religions.\n\nPhilosophy, religion and science were diverse in the Hundred Schools of Thought producing thinkers such as Confucius, Lao Tzu and Mozi during the sixth century BC. Similar trends emerged throughout Eurasia in India with the rise of Buddhism, in the Near East with Zoroastrianism and Judaism and in the west with Ancient Greek Philosophy. In these developments religious and philosophical figures were all searching for human meaning.\n\nThe Axial Age and its aftermath saw large wars and the formation of large empires that stretched beyond the limits of earlier Iron Age Societies. Significant for the time was the Persian Achaemenid Empire. The empire's vast territory extended from modern day Egypt to Xinjiang. The empire's legacy include the rise of commerce over land routes through Eurasia as well as the spreading of Persian culture through the middle east. The Royal Road allowed for efficient trade and taxation. Macedonian Alexander the Great conquered the Achaemenid Empire in its entirety, the unity of Alexander's conquests did not survive past his lifetime. Greek culture, and technology spread through West and South Asia often synthesizing with local cultures.\n\nFormation of Empires and Fragmentation\n\nSeparate Greek Kingdoms Egypt and Asia encouraged trade and communication like earlier Persian administrations. Combined with the expansion of the Han Dynasty westward the Silk Road as a series of routes made possible the exchange of goods between the Mediterranean Basin, South Asia and East Asia. In South Asia, the Mauryan empire briefly annexed much of the Indian Subcontinent though short lived, its reign had the legacies of spreading Buddhism and providing an inspiration to later Indian states.\n\nSupplanting the warring Greek Kingdoms in the western world came the growing Roman Republic and the Iranian Parthian Empire. As a result of empires, urbanization and literary spread to locations which had previously been at the periphery of civilization as known by the large empires. Upon the turn of the millennium the independence of tribal peoples and smaller kingdoms were threatened by more advanced states. Empires were not just remarkable for their territorial size but for their administration and the dissemination of culture and trade, in this way the influence of empires often extended far beyond their national boundaries. Trade routes expanded by land and sea and allowed for flow of goods between distant regions even in the absence of communication. Distant nations such as Imperial Rome and the Chinese Han Dynasty rarely communicated but a horde of Roman Coins have been discovered in modern-day Vietnam. At this time most of the world's population inhabited only a small part of the earth's surface. Outside of civilization large geographic areas such as Siberia, Sub Saharan Africa and Australia remained sparsely populated. The New World hosted a variety of separate civilizations but its own trade networks were smaller due to the lack of draft animals and the wheel.\n\nEmpires with their immense military strength remained fragile to civil wars, economic decline and a changing political environment internationally. In 220 AD Han China collapsed into warring states while the European Roman Empire began to suffer from political turmoil such as the Third Century Crisis. In Persia regime change took place from Parthia to the more centralized Sassanian Empire. The land based Silk Road continued to deliver profits in trade but came under continual assault by nomads all on the northern frontiers of Eurasian nations. Safer sea routes began to gain preference in the early centuries AD\n\nProselytizing religions began to replace polytheism and folk religions in many areas. Christianity gained a wide following in the Roman Empire, Zoroastrianism became the state enforced religion of Iran and Buddhism spread to East Asia from South Asia. Social change, political transformation as well as ecological events all contributed to the end of Ancient Times and the beginning of the Post Classical era in Eurasia roughly around the year 500.\n\nNew philosophies and religions arose in both east and west, particularly about the 6th century BC. Over time, a great variety of religions developed around the world, with some of the earliest major ones being Hinduism, Buddhism, and Jainism in India, and Zoroastrianism in Persia. The Abrahamic religions trace their origin to Judaism, around 1800 BC.\n\nThe ancient Indian philosophy is a fusion of two ancient traditions: Sramana tradition and Vedic tradition. Indian philosophy begins with the \"Vedas\" where questions related to laws of nature, the origin of the universe and the place of man in it are asked. Jainism and Buddhism are continuation of the Sramana school of thought. The Sramanas cultivated a pessimistic world view of the samsara as full of suffering and advocated renunciation and austerities. They laid stress on philosophical concepts like Ahimsa, Karma, Jnana, Samsara and Moksa. While there are ancient relations between the Indian Vedas and the Iranian Avesta, the two main families of the Indo-Iranian philosophical traditions were characterized by fundamental differences in their implications for the human being's position in society and their view on the role of man in the universe.\n\nIn the east, three schools of thought were to dominate Chinese thinking until the modern day. These were Taoism, Legalism and Confucianism. The Confucian tradition, which would attain dominance, looked for political morality not to the force of law but to the power and example of tradition. Confucianism would later spread into the Korean peninsula and Goguryeo and toward Japan.\n\nIn the west, the Greek philosophical tradition, represented by Socrates, Plato, and Aristotle, was diffused throughout Europe and the Middle East in the 4th century BC by the conquests of Alexander III of Macedon, more commonly known as Alexander the Great. After the Bronze and Iron Age religions formed, the rise and spread of Christianity through the Roman world marked the end of Hellenistic philosophy and ushered in the beginnings of Medieval philosophy.\n\nIn the history of technology and ancient science during the growth of the ancient civilizations, ancient technological advances were produced in engineering. These advances stimulated other societies to adopt new ways of living and governance.\n\nThe characteristics of Ancient Egyptian technology are indicated by a set of artifacts and customs that lasted for thousands of years. The Egyptians invented and used many basic machines, such as the ramp and the lever, to aid construction processes. The Egyptians also played an important role in developing Mediterranean maritime technology including ships and lighthouses.\n\nThe history of science and technology in India dates back to ancient times. The Indus Valley civilization yields evidence of hydrography, and sewage collection and disposal being practiced by its inhabitants. Among the fields of science and technology pursued in India were metallurgy, astronomy, mathematics and Ayurveda. Some ancient inventions include plastic surgery, cataract surgery, Hindu-Arabic numeral system and Wootz steel.\n\nThe history of science and technology in China show significant advances in science, technology, mathematics, and astronomy. The first recorded observations of comets and supernovae were made in China. Traditional Chinese medicine, acupuncture and herbal medicine were also practiced.\n\nAncient Greek technology developed at an unprecedented speed during the 5th century BC, continuing up to and including the Roman period, and beyond. Inventions that are credited to the ancient Greeks such as the gear, screw, bronze casting techniques, water clock, water organ, torsion catapult and the use of steam to operate some experimental machines and toys. Many of these inventions occurred late in the Greek period, often inspired by the need to improve weapons and tactics in war. Roman technology is the engineering practice which supported Roman civilization and made the expansion of Roman commerce and Roman military possible over nearly a thousand years. The Roman Empire had the most advanced set of technology of their time, some of which may have been lost during the turbulent eras of Late Antiquity and the Early Middle Ages. Roman technological feats of many different areas, like civil engineering, construction materials, transport technology, and some inventions such as the mechanical reaper went unmatched until the 19th century.\n\nQanats which likely emerged on the Iranian plateau and possibly also in the Arabian peninsula sometime in the early 1st millennium BC spread from there slowly west- and eastward.\n\nThe history of ancient navigation began in earnest when men took to the sea in planked boats and ships propelled by sails hung on masts, like the Ancient Egyptian Khufu ship from the mid-3rd millennium BC. According to the Greek historian Herodotus, Necho II sent out an expedition of Phoenicians, which in three years sailed from the Red Sea around Africa to the mouth of the Nile. Many current historians tend to believe Herodotus on this point, even though Herodotus himself was in disbelief that the Phoenicians had accomplished the act.\n\nHannu was an ancient Egyptian explorer (around 2750 BC) and the first explorer of whom there is any knowledge. He made the first recorded exploring expedition, writing his account of his exploration in stone. Hannu travelled along the Red Sea to Punt, and sailed to what is now part of eastern Ethiopia and Somalia. He returned to Egypt with great treasures, including precious myrrh, metal and wood.\n\nAncient warfare is war as conducted from the beginnings of recorded history to the end of the ancient period. In Europe, the end of antiquity is often equated with the fall of Rome in 476. In China, it can also be seen as ending in the 5th century, with the growing role of mounted warriors needed to counter the ever-growing threat from the north.\n\nThe difference between prehistoric warfare and ancient warfare is less one of technology than of organization. The development of the first city-states, and then empires, allowed warfare to change dramatically. Beginning in Mesopotamia, states produced sufficient agricultural surplus that full-time ruling elites and military commanders could emerge. While the bulk of military forces were still farmers, the society could support having them campaigning rather than working the land for a portion of each year. Thus, organized armies developed for the first time.\n\nThese new armies could help states grow in size and became increasingly centralized, and the first empire, that of the Sumerians, formed in Mesopotamia. Early ancient armies continued to primarily use bows and spears, the same weapons that had been developed in prehistoric times for hunting. Early armies in Egypt and China followed a similar pattern of using massed infantry armed with bows and spears.\n\nAncient music is music that developed in literate cultures, replacing prehistoric music. Ancient music refers to the various musical systems that were developed across various geographical regions such as Persia, India, China, Greece, Rome, Egypt and Mesopotamia (see music of Mesopotamia, music of ancient Greece, music of ancient Rome, music of Iran). Ancient music is designated by the characterization of the basic audible tones and scales. It may have been transmitted through oral or written systems. Arts of the ancient world refers to the many types of art that were in the cultures of ancient societies, such as those of ancient China, Egypt, Greece, India, Persia, Mesopotamia and Rome.\n\nThe Ancient Near East is considered the cradle of civilization. It was the first to practice intensive year-round agriculture; created the first coherent writing system, invented the potter's wheel and then the vehicular- and mill wheel, created the first centralized governments, law codes and empires, as well as introducing social stratification, slavery and organized warfare, and it laid the foundation for the fields of astronomy and mathematics.\n\nMesopotamia is the site of some of the earliest known civilizations in the world. Early settlement of the alluvial plain lasted from the Ubaid period (late 6th millennium BC) through the Uruk period (4th millennium BC) and the Dynastic periods (3rd millennium BC) until the rise of Babylon in the early 2nd millennium BC. The surplus of storable foodstuffs created by this economy allowed the population to settle in one place instead of migrating after crops and herds. It also allowed for a much greater population density, and in turn required an extensive labor force and division of labor. This organization led to the necessity of record keeping and the development of writing (c. 3500 BC).\n\nBabylonia was an Amorite state in lower Mesopotamia (modern southern Iraq), with Babylon as its capital. Babylonia emerged when Hammurabi (fl. c. 1728–1686 BC, according to the short chronology) created an empire out of the territories of the former kingdoms of Sumer and Akkad. The Amorites being ancient Semitic-speaking peoples, Babylonia adopted the written Akkadian language for official use; they retained the Sumerian language for religious use, which by that time was no longer a spoken language. The Akkadian and Sumerian cultures played a major role in later Babylonian culture, and the region would remain an important cultural center, even under outside rule. The earliest mention of the city of Babylon can be found in a tablet from the reign of Sargon of Akkad, dating back to the 23rd century BC.\n\nThe Neo-Babylonian Empire, or Chaldea, was Babylonia under the rule of the 11th (\"Chaldean\") dynasty, from the revolt of Nabopolassar in 626 BC until the invasion of Cyrus the Great in 539 BC. Notably, it included the reign of Nebuchadnezzar II, who conquered the Kingdom of Judah and Jerusalem.\n\nAkkad was a city and its surrounding region in central Mesopotamia. Akkad also became the capital of the Akkadian Empire. The city was probably situated on the west bank of the Euphrates, between Sippar and Kish (in present-day Iraq, about southwest of the center of Baghdad). Despite an extensive search, the precise site has never been found. Akkad reached the height of its power between the 24th and 22nd centuries BC, following the conquests of king Sargon of Akkad. Because of the policies of the Akkadian Empire toward linguistic assimilation, Akkad also gave its name to the predominant Semitic dialect: the Akkadian language, reflecting use of \"akkadû\" (\"in the language of Akkad\") in the Old Babylonian period to denote the Semitic version of a Sumerian text.\n\nAssyria was originally (in the Middle Bronze Age) a region on the Upper Tigris, named for its original capital, the ancient city of Assur. Later, as a nation and empire that came to control all of the Fertile Crescent, Egypt and much of Anatolia, the term \"Assyria proper\" referred to roughly the northern half of Mesopotamia (the southern half being Babylonia), with Nineveh as its capital. The Assyrian kings controlled a large kingdom at three different times in history. These are called the \"Old\" (20th to 15th centuries BC), \"Middle\" (15th to 10th centuries BC), and \"Neo-Assyrian\" (911–612 BC) kingdoms, or periods, of which the last is the most well known and best documented. Assyrians invented excavation to undermine city walls, battering rams to knock down gates, as well as the concept of a corps of engineers, who bridged rivers with pontoons or provided soldiers with inflatable skins for swimming.\n\nMitanni was an Indo-Iranian empire in northern Mesopotamia from c. 1500 BC. At the height of Mitanni power, during the 14th century BC, it encompassed what is today southeastern Turkey, northern Syria and northern Iraq, centered around its capital, Washukanni, whose precise location has not been determined by archaeologists.\n\nElam is the name of an ancient civilization located in what is now southwest Iran. Archaeological evidence associated with Elam has been dated to before 5000 BC. According to available written records, it is known to have existed from around 3200 BC – making it among the world's oldest historical civilizations – and to have endured up until 539 BC. Its culture played a crucial role in the Gutian Empire, especially during the Achaemenid dynasty that succeeded it, when the Elamite language remained among those in official use. The Elamite period is considered a starting point for the history of Iran.\n\nThe Medes were an ancient Iranian people. They had established their own empire by the 6th century BC, having defeated the Neo-Assyrian Empire with the Chaldeans. They overthrew Urartu later on as well. The Medes are credited with the foundation of the first Iranian empire, the largest of its day until Cyrus the Great established a unified Iranian empire of the Medes and Persian, often referred to as the Achaemenid Persian Empire, by defeating his grandfather and overlord, Astyages the king of Media.\n\nThe Achaemenid Empire was the largest and most significant of the Persian Empires, and followed the Median Empire as the second great empire of the Iranians. It is noted in western history as the foe of the Greek city states in the Greco-Persian Wars, for freeing the Israelites from their Babylonian captivity, for its successful model of a centralized bureaucratic administration, the Mausoleum of Halicarnassus (one of the Seven Wonders of the Ancient World), and for instituting Aramaic as the empire's official language. Because of the Empire's vast extent and long endurance, Persian influence upon the language, religion, architecture, philosophy, law and government of nations around the world lasts to this day. At the height of its power, the Achaemenid dynasty encompassed approximately 8.0 million square kilometers, held the greatest percentage of world population to date, stretched three continents (Europe, Asia and Africa) and was territorially the largest empire of classical antiquity.\nParthia was an Iranian civilization situated in the northeastern part of modern Iran. Their power was based on a combination of the guerrilla warfare of a mounted nomadic tribe, with organizational skills to build and administer a vast empire – even though it never matched in power and extent the Persian empires that preceded and followed it. The Parthian Empire was led by the Arsacid dynasty, which reunited and ruled over significant portions of the Near East and beyond, after defeating and disposing the Hellenistic Seleucid Empire, beginning in the late 3rd century BC. It was the third native dynasty of ancient Iran (after the Median and the Achaemenid dynasties). Parthia had many wars with the Roman Republic (and subsequently the Roman Empire), which marked the start of what would be over 700 years of frequent Roman-Persian Wars.\n\nThe Sassanid Empire, lasting the length of the Late Antiquity period, is considered to be one of Iran's most important and influential historical periods. In many ways the Sassanid period witnessed the highest achievements of Persian civilization and constituted the last great Iranian Empire before the Muslim conquest and the adoption of Islam. During Sassanid times, Persia influenced Roman civilization considerably, and the Romans reserved for the Sassanid Persians alone the status of equals. Sassanid cultural influence extended far beyond the empire's territorial borders, reaching as far as Western Europe, Africa, China, and India, playing a role, for example, in the formation of both European and Asiatic medieval art.\n\nThe early history of the Hittite empire is known through tablets that may first have been written in the 17th century BC but survived only as copies made in the 14th and 13th centuries BC. These tablets, known collectively as the Anitta text, begin by telling how Pithana the king of Kussara or Kussar (a small city-state yet to be identified by archaeologists) conquered the neighbouring city of Neša (Kanesh). However, the real subject of these tablets is Pithana's son Anitta, who conquered several neighbouring cities, including Hattusa and Zalpuwa (Zalpa).\n\nAssyrian inscriptions of Shalmaneser I (c. 1270 BC) first mention \"Uruartri\" as one of the states of Nairi – a loose confederation of small kingdoms and tribal states in the Armenian Highland from the 13th to 11th centuries BC. Uruartri itself was in the region around Lake Van. The Nairi states were repeatedly subjected to attacks by the Assyrians, especially under Tukulti-Ninurta I (c. 1240 BC), Tiglath-Pileser I (c. 1100 BC), Ashur-bel-kala (c. 1070 BC), Adad-nirari II (c. 900), Tukulti-Ninurta II (c. 890), and Ashurnasirpal II (883–859 BC).\n\nThe Kingdom of Armenia was an independent kingdom from 321 BC to 428 AD, and a client state of the Roman and Persian empires until 428. Between 95–55 BC under the rule of King Tigranes the Great, the kingdom of Armenia became a large and powerful empire stretching from the Caspian to the Mediterranean Seas. During this short time it was considered to be the most powerful state in the Roman East.\n\nIsrael and Judah were related Iron Age kingdoms of the ancient Levant and had existed during the Iron Ages and the Neo-Babylonian, Persian and Hellenistic periods.\nThe name Israel first appears in the stele of the Egyptian pharaoh Merneptah c. 1209 BC, \"Israel is laid waste and his seed is no more.\" This \"Israel\" was a cultural and probably political entity of the central highlands, well enough established to be perceived by the Egyptians as a possible challenge to their hegemony, but an ethnic group rather than an organised state; Archaeologist Paula McNutt says: \"It is probably ... during Iron Age I [that] a population began to identify itself as 'Israelite',\" differentiating itself from its neighbours via prohibitions on intermarriage, an emphasis on family history and genealogy, and religion.\n\nIsrael had emerged by the middle of the 9th century BC, when the Assyrian king Shalmaneser III names \"Ahab the Israelite\" among his enemies at the battle of Qarqar (853). Judah emerged somewhat later than Israel, probably during the 9th century BC, but the subject is one of considerable controversy. Israel came into increasing conflict with the expanding neo-Assyrian empire, which first split its territory into several smaller units and then destroyed its capital, Samaria (722). A series of campaigns by the Neo-Babylonian Empire between 597 and 582 led to the destruction of Judah.\n\nFollowed by the fall of Babylon to the Persian empire, Jews were allowed, by Cyrus the Great, to return to Judea. The Hasmonean Kingdom (followed by the Maccabean revolt) had existed during the Hellenistic period and then the Herodian kingdom during the Roman period.\n\nThe history of Pre-Islamic Arabia before the rise of Islam in the 630s is not known in great detail. Archaeological exploration in the Arabian peninsula has been sparse; indigenous written sources are limited to the many inscriptions and coins from southern Arabia. Existing material consists primarily of written sources from other traditions (such as Egyptians, Greeks, Persians, Romans, etc.) and oral traditions later recorded by Islamic scholars. Many small kingdoms prospered from Red sea and Indian Ocean trade. Major kingdoms included the Sabaeans, Awsan, Lahkimid Himyar and the Nabateans. Arab kingdoms are occasionally mentioned in the Hebrew Old Testament under the name of Edom.\nThough the Ugaritic site is thought to have been inhabited earlier, Neolithic Ugarit was already important enough to be fortified with a wall early on. The first written evidence mentioning the city comes from the nearby city of Ebla, c. 1800 BC. Ugarit passed into the sphere of influence of Egypt, which deeply influenced its art. On the Mediterranean coast of modern-day Israel, Palestine and Lebanon, Canaanite peoples became wealth through trade inspiring Phoenicians.\n\nPhoenicia was an ancient civilization centered in the north of ancient Canaan, with its heartland along the coastal regions of modern-day Lebanon, Syria and Israel. Phoenician civilization was an enterprising maritime trading culture that spread across the Mediterranean between the period of 1550 to 300 BC. One of Phoenician colony – Carthage became a powerful nation in its own right.\n\nCarthage was founded in 814 BC by Phoenician settlers from the city of Tyre, bringing with them the city-god Melqart. Ancient Carthage was an informal hegemony of Phoenician city-states throughout North Africa and modern Spain from 575 BC until 146 BC. It was more or less under the control of the city-state of Carthage after the fall of Tyre to Babylonian forces. At the height of the city's influence, its empire included most of the western Mediterranean. The empire was in a constant state of struggle with the Roman Republic, which led to a series of conflicts known as the Punic Wars. After the third and final Punic War, Carthage was destroyed then occupied by Roman forces. Nearly all of the territory held by Carthage fell into Roman hands.\n\n Ancient Egypt was a long-lived civilization geographically located in north-eastern Africa. It was concentrated along the middle to lower reaches of the Nile River reaching its greatest extension during the 2nd millennium BC, which is referred to as the New Kingdom period. It reached broadly from the Nile Delta in the north, as far south as Jebel Barkal at the Fourth Cataract of the Nile. Extensions to the geographical range of ancient Egyptian civilization included, at different times, areas of the southern Levant, the Eastern Desert and the Red Sea coastline, the Sinai Peninsula and the Western Desert (focused on the several oases).\n\nAncient Egypt developed over at least three and a half millennia. It began with the incipient unification of Nile Valley polities around 3500 BC and is conventionally thought to have ended in 30 BC when the early Roman Empire conquered and absorbed Ptolemaic Egypt as a province. (Though this last did not represent the first period of foreign domination, the Roman period was to witness a marked, if gradual transformation in the political and religious life of the Nile Valley, effectively marking the termination of independent civilisational development).\n\nThe civilization of ancient Egypt was based on a finely balanced control of natural and human resources, characterised primarily by controlled irrigation of the fertile Nile Valley; the mineral exploitation of the valley and surrounding desert regions; the early development of an independent writing system and literature; the organisation of collective projects; trade with surrounding regions in east / central Africa and the eastern Mediterranean; finally, military ventures that exhibited strong characteristics of imperial hegemony and territorial domination of neighbouring cultures at different periods. Motivating and organizing these activities were a socio-political and economic elite that achieved social consensus by means of an elaborate system of religious belief under the figure of a (semi)-divine ruler (usually male) from a succession of ruling dynasties and which related to the larger world by means of polytheistic beliefs.\n\nThe Kushite civilization, which is also known as Nubia, was formed before a period of Egyptian incursion into the area. The first cultures arose in what is now Sudan before the time of a unified Egypt, and the most widespread culture is known as the Kerma civilization. Egyptians referred to Nubia as \"Ta-Seti,\" or \"The Land of the Bow,\" since the Nubians were known to be expert archers. The two civilization shared an abundance of peaceful cultural interchange and cooperation, including mixed marriages and even the same gods. In the New Kingdom, Nubians became indistinguishable in the archaeological record from Egyptians. The Kingdom of Kush survived longer than that of Egypt and at its greatest extent Nubia ruled over Egypt (under the leadership of king Piye), and controlled Egypt during the 8th century BC as the 25th Dynasty.\nDuring this period Nubia's entire landscape up to the region of the Third Cataract was dotted with temples indistinguishable in style and decoration from contemporary temples erected in Egypt. The same observation obtains for the smaller number of typically Egyptian tombs in which these elite Nubian princes were interred. It is through Egyptian, Hebrew, Roman and Greek records that most of our knowledge of Kush (Cush) comes, as the Nubians own form of writing the Meroitic alphabet has yet to be translated.\n\nIt is also referred to as Ethiopia in ancient Greek and Roman records. According to Josephus and other classical writers, the Kushite Empire covered all of Africa, and some parts of Asia and Europe at one time or another. In contrast to the Egyptians the Nubians had an unusually high number of ruling queens also known as Kandake, especially during the golden age of the Meroitic Kingdom. Although ruling queens, in themselves, may not be unusual, the portrayal of Nubian queen smiting her enemies has no equivalent in either Egyptian, Aksum, or art of Classical Antiquity. Throughout the history and culture of Nubia, it becomes apparent that women played an important role. Unlike the rest of the world at the time, women in Nubia exercised significant control in society. The Kushites are also famous for having buried their monarchs along with all their courtiers in mass graves. The Kushites also built burial mounds and pyramids, and shared some of the same gods worshipped in Egypt, especially Amon and Isis.\n\nThe Land of Punt, also called Pwenet or Pwene by the ancient Egyptians, was a trading partner known for producing and exporting gold, aromatic resins, African blackwood, ebony, ivory, slaves and wild animals. Information about Punt has been found in ancient Egyptian records of trade missions to this region.\nThe exact location of Punt remains a mystery. The mainstream view is that Punt was located to the south-east of Egypt, most likely on the coast of the Horn of Africa. Archaeologist Richard Pankhurst (academic) states;\"[Punt] has been identified with territory on both the Arabian and the Horn of Africa coasts. Consideration of the articles that the Egyptians obtained from Punt, notably gold and ivory, suggests, however, that these were primarily of African origin. ... This leads us to suppose that the term Punt probably applied more to African than Arabian territory.\"The earliest recorded Egyptian expedition to Punt was organized by Pharaoh Sahure of the Fifth Dynasty (25th century BC) although gold from Punt is recorded as having been in Egypt in the time of king Khufu of the Fourth Dynasty of Egypt. Subsequently, there were more expeditions to Punt in the Sixth Dynasty of Egypt, the Eleventh dynasty of Egypt, the Twelfth dynasty of Egypt and the Eighteenth dynasty of Egypt. In the Twelfth dynasty of Egypt, trade with Punt was celebrated in popular literature in \"Tale of the Shipwrecked Sailor\".\n\nThe Axumite Empire was an important trading nation in northeastern Africa centered in present-day Eritrea and northern Ethiopia, it existed from approximately 100–940 AD, growing from the Iron Age proto-Aksumite period c. fourth century BC to achieve prominence by the first century CE.\nAccording to the Book of Aksum, Aksum's first capital, Mazaber, was built by Itiyopis, son of Cush. The capital was later moved to Axum in northern Ethiopia. The Kingdom used the name \"Ethiopia\" as early as the fourth century.\n\nThe Empire of Aksum at its height at its climax by the early sixth century extended through much of modern Ethiopia and across the Red Sea to Arabia. The capital city of the empire was Aksum, now in northern Ethiopia.\n\nIts ancient capital is found in northern Ethiopia, the Kingdom used the name \"Ethiopia\" as early as the 4th century. Aksum is mentioned in the 1st century AD \"Periplus of the Erythraean Sea\" as an important market place for ivory, which was exported throughout the ancient world, and states that the ruler of Aksum in the 1st century AD was Zoscales, who, besides ruling in Aksum also controlled two harbours on the Red Sea: Adulis (near Massawa) and Avalites (Assab). He is also said to have been familiar with Greek literature. It is also an alleged resting place of the Ark of the Covenant and home of the Queen of Sheba. Aksum was also one of the first major empires to convert to Christianity.\n\nThe Nok culture appeared in Nigeria around 1000 BC and mysteriously vanished around 200 AD. The civilization's social system is thought to have been highly advanced. The Nok civilization was considered to be the earliest sub-Saharan producer of life-sized Terracotta which have been discovered by archaeologists. A Nok sculpture resident at the Minneapolis Institute of Arts, portrays a sitting dignitary wearing a \"Shepherds Crook\" on the right arm, and a \"hinged flail\" on the left. These are symbols of authority associated with ancient Egyptian pharaohs, and the god Osiris, which suggests that an ancient Egyptian style of social structure, and perhaps religion, existed in the area of modern Nigeria during the late Pharonic period. (Informational excerpt copied from Nigeria and Nok culture articles)\n\nThe earliest evidence of human civilization in South Asia is from the Mehrgarh region (7000 BC to 3200 BC) what is now Pakistan. Located near the Bolan Pass, to the west of the Indus River valley and between the present-day Pakistani cities of Quetta, Kalat and Sibi, Mehrgarh was discovered in 1974 by an archaeological team directed by French archaeologist Jean-François Jarrige, and was excavated continuously between 1974 and 1986. The earliest settlement at Mehrgarh – in the northeast corner of the site – was a small farming village dated between 7000–5500 BC.\nEarly Mehrgarh residents lived in mud brick houses, stored their grain in granaries, fashioned tools with local copper ore, and lined their large basket containers with bitumen. They cultivated six-row barley, einkorn and emmer wheat, jujubes and dates, and herded sheep, goats and cattle. Residents of the later period (5500 BC to 2600 BC) put much effort into crafts, including flint knapping, tanning, bead production, and metal working. The site was occupied continuously until about 2600 BC.[2] The Indus Valley Civilization (c. 3300–1700 BC, flourished 2600–1900 BC), abbreviated IVC, was an ancient civilization that flourished in the Indus and Ghaggar-Hakra river valleys primarily in what is now Pakistan, although settlements linked to this ancient civilization have been found in eastern Afghanistan, and western India. Minor scattered sites have been found as far away as Turkmenistan. Another name for this civilization is the Harappan Civilization, after the first of its cities to be excavated, Harappa in the Pakistani province of Punjab. The IVC might have been known to the Sumerians as the Meluhha, and other trade contacts may have included Egypt, Africa, however, the modern world discovered it only in the 1920s as a result of archaeological excavations and rail road building. Prominent historians of Ancient India would include Ram Sharan Sharma and Romila Thapar.\n\nThe births of Mahavira and Buddha in the 6th century BC mark the beginning of well-recorded history in the region. Around the 5th century BC, the ancient region of Pakistan was invaded by the Achaemenid Empire under Darius in 522 BC forming the easternmost satraps of the Persian Empire. The provinces of Sindh and Panjab were said to be the richest \"satraps\" of the Persian Empire and contributed many soldiers to various Persian expeditions. It is known that an \"Indian\" contingent fought in Xerxes' army on his expedition to Greece. Herodotus mentions that the Indus satrapy supplied cavalry and chariots to the Persian army. He also mentions that the Indus people were clad in armaments made of cotton, carried bows and arrows of cane covered with iron. Herodotus states that in 517 BC Darius sent an expedition under Scylax to explore the Indus. Under Persian rule, much irrigation and commerce flourished within the vast territory of the empire. The Persian empire was followed by the invasion of the Greeks under Alexander's army. Since Alexander was determined to reach the eastern-most limits of the Persian Empire he could not resist the temptation to conquer India (i.e. the Punjab region), which at this time was parcelled out into small chieftain-ships, who were feudatories of the Persian Empire. Alexander amalgamated the region into the expanding Hellenic empire. The \"Rigveda\", in Sanskrit, goes back to about 1500 BC. The Indian literary tradition has an oral history reaching down into the Vedic period of the later 2nd millennium BC.\n\n\"Ancient India\" is usually taken to refer to the \"golden age\" of classical Indian culture, as reflected in Sanskrit literature, beginning around 500 BC with the sixteen monarchies and 'republics' known as the Mahajanapadas, stretched across the Indo-Gangetic plains from modern-day Afghanistan to Bangladesh. The largest of these nations were Magadha, Kosala, Kuru and Gandhara. Notably, the great epics of Ramayana and Mahabharata are rooted in this classical period.Amongst the sixteen Mahajanapadas, the kingdom of Magadha rose to prominence under a number of dynasties that peaked in power under the reign of Ashoka Maurya one of India's most legendary and famous emperors. During the reign of Ashoka, the four dynasties of Chola, Chera, and Pandya were ruling in the South, while the King Devanampiya Tissa was controlling the Anuradhapura Kingdom (now Sri Lanka). These kingdoms, while not part of Ashoka's empire, were in friendly terms with the Maurya Empire. There was a strong alliance existed between Devanampiya Tissa (250–210 BC) and Ashoka of India, who sent Arahat Mahinda, four monks, and a novice being sent to Sri Lanka.\n\nThey encountered Devanampiya Tissa at Mihintale. After this meeting, Devanampiya Tissa embraced Buddhism the order of monks was established in the country. Devanampiya Tissa, guided by Arahat Mahinda, took steps to firmly establish Buddhism in the country.\n\nThe period between AD 320–550 is known as the Classical Age, when most of North India was reunited under the Gupta Empire (c. AD 320–550). This was a period of relative peace, law and order, and extensive achievements in religion, education, mathematics, arts, Sanskrit literature and drama. Grammar, composition, logic, metaphysics, mathematics, medicine, and astronomy became increasingly specialized and reached an advanced level. The Gupta Empire was weakened and ultimately ruined by the raids of Hunas (a branch of the Hephthalites emanating from Central Asia). Under Harsha (r. 606–47), North India was reunited briefly.\n\nThe educated speech at that time was Sanskrit, while the dialects of the general population of northern India were referred to as Prakrits. The South Indian Malabar Coast and the Tamil people of the Sangam age traded with the Graeco-Roman world. They were in contact with the Phoenicians, Romans, Greeks, Arabs, Syrians, Jews, and the Chinese.\n\nThe regions of South Asia, primarily present-day Pakistan and India, were estimated to have had the largest economy of the world between the 1st and 15th centuries AD, controlling between one third and one quarter of the world's wealth up to the time of the Mughals, from whence it rapidly declined during British rule.\n\nChinese Civilization that emerged within the Yellow River Valley is one of five original civilizations in the world. Prior to the formation of civilization neolithic cultures such as the Longshan and Yangshao dating to 5,000 BC lived in wall cities and likely had social organizations of complex chiefdoms. The practice of rice cultivation was vital to settled life in China.\n\nChinese history records such as the \"Records of the Grand Historian\" claim of the existence of the Xia Dynasty. However, as the Xia left behind no written record themselves, the time and location of their civilization has been in doubt. Some historians believe that the neolithic Erlitou culture (1900-1600 BC) is the Xia Dynasty but whether archaeological discoveries in the area Xia Dynasty or a different culture remains in doubt.\n\nThe early part of the Shang dynasty described in traditional histories (c. 1600–1300) is commonly identified with archaeological finds at Erligang, Zhengzhou and Yanshi, south of the Yellow River in modern-day Henan province.\nThe last capital of the Shang (c. 1300–1046 BC) at Anyang (also in Henan) has been directly confirmed by the discovery there of the earliest Chinese texts, inscriptions of divination records on the bones or shells of animals – the so-called \"oracle bones\".\n\nTowards the end of the 2nd millennium BC, the Shang were overrun by the Zhou dynasty from the Wei River valley to the west. The death of King Wu of Zhou soon after the conquest triggered a succession crisis and civil war that was suppressed by Wu's brother, the Duke of Zhou, acting as regent. The Zhou rulers at this time invoked the concept of the Mandate of Heaven to legitimize their rule, a concept that would be influential for almost every successive dynasty. The Zhou initially established their capital in the west near modern Xi'an, near the Yellow River, but they would preside over a series of expansions into the Yangtze River valley. This would be the first of many population migrations from north to south in Chinese history.\n\nIn the 8th century BC, power became decentralized during the Spring and Autumn period, named after the influential \"Spring and Autumn Annals\". In this period, local military leaders used by the Zhou began to assert their power and vie for hegemony. The situation was aggravated by the invasion of other peoples from the northwest, such as the Quanrong, forcing the Zhou to move their capital east to Luoyang. This marks the second large phase of the Zhou dynasty: the Eastern Zhou. In each of the hundreds of states that eventually arose, local strongmen held most of the political power and continued their subservience to the Zhou kings in name only. Local leaders for instance started using royal titles for themselves. The Hundred Schools of Thought of Chinese philosophy blossomed during this period, and such influential intellectual movements as Confucianism, Taoism, Legalism and Mohism were founded, partly in response to the changing political world. The Spring and Autumn period is marked by a falling apart of the central Zhou power. China now consisted of hundreds of states, some only as large as a village with a fort.\n\nAfter further political consolidation, seven prominent states remained by the end of the 5th century BC, and the years in which these few states battled each other is known as the Warring States period. Though there remained a nominal Zhou king until 256 BC, he was largely a figurehead and held little power. As neighboring territories of these warring states, including areas of modern Sichuan and Liaoning, were annexed, they were governed under the new local administrative system of commandery and prefecture. This system had been in use since the Spring and Autumn period and parts can still be seen in the modern system of Sheng and Xian (province and county). The final expansion in this period began during the reign of Ying Zheng, the king of Qin. His unification of the other six powers, and further annexations in the modern regions of Zhejiang, Fujian, Guangdong and Guangxi in 214 BC enabled him to proclaim himself the First Emperor (Qin Shi Huangdi).\n\nQin Shi Huangdi ruled the unified China directly with absolute power. In contrast to the decentralized and feudal rule of earlier dynasties the Qin set up a number of 'commandries' around the country which answered directly to the emperor. Nationwide the philosophy of legalism was enforced and publications promoting rival ideas such as Confucianism were prohibited. In his reign unified China created the first continuous Great Wall with the use of forced labor. Invasions were launched southward to annex Vietnam. After the emperor's death rebels rose against the Qin's brutal reign in new civil wars. Ultimately the Han Dynasty arose and ruled China for over four centuries in what accounted for a long period in prosperity, with a brief interruption by the Xin Dynasty. The Han Dynasty played a great role in developing the Silk Road which would transfer wealth and ideas for millennia, and also invented paper. Though the Han enjoyed great military and economic success it was strained by the rise of aristocrats who disobeyed the central government. Public frustration provoked the Yellow Turban Rebellion – though a failure it nonetheless accelerated the empire's downfall. After 208 AD the Han Dynasty broke up into rival kingdoms. China would remain divided until 581 under the Sui Dynasty, during the era of division Buddhism would be introduced to China for the first time.\n\nMongolia in Ancient times was from nomadic, the cultures and languages are modern Mongolian territory were fluid and changed frequently. The use of horses to herd and move started during the Iron Age. North-western Mongolia was Turkic while south-western Mongolia had come under Indo-European (Tocharian and Scythian) influence. In antiquity, the eastern portions of both Inner and Outer Mongolia were inhabited by Mongolic peoples descended from the Donghu people, including the Xianbei, Wuhuan, Rouran, Tuoba, Murong, Shiwei, Kumo Xi and Khitan. These were Tengriist horse-riding pastoralist kingdoms that had close contact with the agrarian Chinese.\n\nAs a nomadic confederation composed of various clans the Donghu were prosperous in the 4th century BC, forcing surrounding tribes to pay tribute and constantly harassing the Chinese State of Zhao (325 BC, during the early years of the reign of Wuling). To appease the nomads local Chinese rulers often gave important hostages and arranged marriages. In 208 BC Xiongnu emperor Modu Chanyu, in his first major military campaign, defeated the Donghu, who split into the new tribes Xianbei and Wuhuan. The Xiongnu were the largest nomadic enemies of the Han Dynasty fighting wars for over three centuries with the Han Dynasty before dissolving. Afterwards the Xianbei returned to rule the Steppe north of the Great Wall. The titles of Khangan and Khan come from the Xianbei.\n\nKorea's early history was often determined by its relationship with early Chinese states. According to Records of the Grand Historian by Chinese historian Sima Quan, Korea was founded by Wiman from China in 197 BC. In 105 BC, Han dynasty China ruined Korea and ruled for about 400 years. The Three Kingdoms (Baekje, Goguryeo, and Silla) conquered other successor states of Gojoseon and came to dominate the peninsula and much of Manchuria. The three kingdoms competed with each other both economically and militarily; Goguryeo and Baekje were the more powerful states for much of the three kingdoms era. At times more powerful than the neighboring Sui dynasty, Goguryeo was a regional power that defeated massive Chinese invasions multiple times. As one of the Three Kingdoms of Korea, Silla gradually extended across Korea and eventually became the first state since Gojoseon to cover most of Korean peninsula in 676. In 698, former Goguryeo general Dae Jo-yeong founded Balhae as the successor to Goguryeo.\n\nIn Vietnam Archaeologists have pointed to the Phùng Nguyên culture as the beginning of the Vietnamese identity from around 2000 B.C which engaged in early Bronze Smelting.\nEight hundred years later the Đông Sơn culture arose a prehistoric Bronze Age culture that was centered at the Red River Valley of northern Vietnam. Large scale rice cultivation began around 1200 BC, onward. Pottery and Bamboo working became common in this time period as well as widespread trade and navigation on inland rivers. During this time Vietnam was allegedly ruled by the semi-mythical Hong Bang Dynasty, the last Hong King was deposed by a Chinese Qin Invasion, in turn however a Chinese General declared independence and founded the Nanyue combining Chinese and Vietnamese traditions.\n\nNan Yue, after a century of political maneuvers the country was annexed by the Han Dynasty in 111 B.C Originally the Han were lenient governors and attempted to integrate the Vietnamese upper class into Chinese Patriarchy. However Chinese abuse of certain vassals led to the famous but futile revolt of the Trung Sisters. Afterwards Chinese authorities ruled Vietnam directly and attempted to push Chinese culture upon the populace though peasants continued to speak Vietnamese. Vietnam would be under Chinese domination for a millennium. Meanwhile, South Vietnam held a completely different identity, populated mainly by Cham People. While Northern Vietnam came under Chinese Domination, the Champa Kingdom became closer to Indian kingdoms through trade and embraced Hinduism.\n\nJapan first appeared in written records in AD 57 with the following mention in China's \"Book of the Later Han\": \"Across the ocean from Luoyang are the people of Wa. Formed from more than one hundred tribes, they come and pay tribute frequently. The\"Book of Wei\", written in the 3rd century, noted the country was the unification of some 30 small tribes or states and ruled by a shaman queen named Himiko of Yamataikoku.\n\nDuring the Han dynasty and Wei dynasty, Chinese travelers to Kyūshū recorded its inhabitants and claimed that they were the descendants of the Grand Count (Tàibó) of the Wu. The inhabitants also show traits of the pre-sinicized Wu people with tattooing, teeth-pulling and baby-carrying. The \"Book of Wei\" records the physical descriptions which are similar to ones on \"Haniwa\" statues, such men with braided hair, tattooing and women wearing large, single-piece clothing.\n\nIn pre-Columbian times, several large, centralized ancient civilizations developed in the Western Hemisphere, both in Mesoamerica and western South America.\n\nThe Central Andes in South America has the largest ancient civilization register, spanning 4,500 years from Norte chico to the latest civilization, the Inca Empire.\n\nMesoamerican ancient civilizations included the Olmecs and Mayans. Between 2000 and 300 BC, complex cultures began to form and many matured into advanced Mesoamerican civilizations such as the: Olmec, Izapa, Teotihuacan, Maya, Zapotec, Mixtec, Huastec, Which flourished for nearly 4,000 years before the first contact with Europeans. These civilizations' progress included pyramid-temples, mathematics, astronomy, medicine, and theology.\n\nThe Zapotec emerged around 1500 years BC. They left behind the great city Monte Alban. Their writing system had been thought to have influenced the Olmecs but, with recent evidence, the Olmec may have been the first civilization in the area to develop a true writing system independently. At the present time, there is some debate as to whether or not Olmec symbols, dated to 650 BC, are actually a form of writing preceding the oldest Zapotec writing dated to about 500 BC.\n\nOlmec symbols found in 2002 and 2006 date to 650 BC and 900 BC respectively, preceding the oldest Zapotec writing. The Olmec symbols found in 2006, dating to 900 BC, are known as the Cascajal Block.\n\nThe earliest Mayan inscriptions found which are identifiably Maya date to the 3rd century BC in San Bartolo, Guatemala.\n\nThe history of the Etruscans can be traced relatively accurately, based on the examination of burial sites, artifacts, and writing. Etruscans culture that is identifiably and certainly Etruscan developed in Italy in earnest by 800 BC approximately over the range of the preceding Iron Age Villanovan culture. The latter gave way in the 7th century to a culture that was influenced by Greek traders and Greek neighbors in Magna Graecia, the Hellenic civilization of southern Italy.\n\nFrom the descendants of the Villanovan people in Etruria in central Italy, a separate Etruscan culture emerged in the beginning of the 7th century BC, evidenced by around 7,000 inscriptions in an alphabet similar to that of Euboean Greek, in the non-Indo-European Etruscan language. The burial tombs, some of which had been fabulously decorated, promotes the idea of an aristocratic city-state, with centralized power structures maintaining order and constructing public works, such as irrigation networks, roads, and town defenses.\nAncient Greece is the period in Greek history lasting for close to a millennium, until the rise of Christianity. It is considered by most historians to be the foundational culture of Western Civilization. Greek culture was a powerful influence in the Roman Empire, which carried a version of it to many parts of Europe.\n\nThe earliest known human settlements in Greece were on the island of Crete, more than 9,000 years ago, though there is evidence of tool use on the island going back over 100,000 years. The earliest evidence of a civilisation in ancient Greece is that of the Minoans on Crete, dating as far back as 3600 BC. On the mainland, the Mycenaean civilisation rose to prominence around 1600 BC, superseded the Minoan civilisation on Crete, and lasted until about 1100 BC, leading to a period known as the Greek Dark Ages.\n\nThe Archaic Period in Greece is generally considered to have lasted from around the eighth century BC to the invasion by Xerxes in 480 BC. This period saw the expansion of the Greek world around the Mediterranean, with the founding of Greek city-states as far afield as Sicily in the West and the Black sea in the East. Politically, the Archaic period in Greece saw the collapse of the power of the old aristocracies, with democratic reforms in Athens and the development of Sparta's unique constitution. The end of the Archaic period also saw the rise of Athens, which would come to be a dominant power in the Classical period, after the reforms of Solon and the tyranny of Pisistratus.\n\nThe Classical Greek world was dominated throughout the fifth century BC by the major powers of Athens and Sparta. Through the Delian League, Athens was able to convert Pan-hellenist sentiment and fear of the Persian threat into a powerful empire, and this, along with the conflict between Sparta and Athens culminating in the Peloponnesian war, was the major political development of the first part of the Classical period.\n\nThe period in Greek history from the death of Alexander the Great until the rise of the Roman empire and its conquest of Egypt in 30 BC is known as the Hellenistic period. The name derives from the Greek word \"Hellenistes\" (\"the Greek speaking ones\"), and describes the spread of Greek culture into the non-Greek world following the conquests of Alexander and the rise of his successors.\n\nFollowing the Battle of Corinth in 146 BC, Greece came under Roman rule, ruled from the province of Macedonia. In 27 BC, Augustus organised the Greek peninsula into the province of Achaea. Greece remained under Roman control until the break up of the Roman empire, in which it remained part of the Eastern Empire. Much of Greece remained under Byzantine control until the end of the Byzantine empire in 1453 AD. Ancient Rome was a civilization that grew out of the city-state of Rome, originating as a small agricultural community founded on the Italian Peninsula in the 9th century BC. In its twelve centuries of existence, Roman civilization shifted from a monarchy to an oligarchic republic to an increasingly autocratic empire.\n\nRoman civilization is often grouped into \"classical antiquity\" with ancient Greece, a civilization that inspired much of the culture of ancient Rome. Ancient Rome contributed greatly to the development of law, war, art, literature, architecture, and language in the Western world, and its history continues to have a major influence on the world today. The Roman civilization came to dominate Europe and the Mediterranean region through conquest and assimilation.\n\nThroughout the territory under the control of ancient Rome, residential architecture ranged from very modest houses to country villas. A number of Roman founded cities had monumental structures. Many contained fountains with fresh drinking-water supplied by hundreds of miles of aqueducts, theatres, gymnasiums, bath complexes sometime with libraries and shops, marketplaces, and occasionally functional sewers. A number of factors led to the eventual decline of the Roman Empire. The western half of the empire, including Hispania, Gaul, and Italy, eventually broke into independent kingdoms in the 5th century; the Eastern Roman Empire, governed from Constantinople, is referred to as the Byzantine Empire after AD 476, the traditional date for the \"fall of Rome\" and subsequent onset of the Middle Ages.\n\nThe Roman Empire underwent considerable social, cultural and organizational change starting with reign of Diocletian, who began the custom of splitting the Empire into Eastern and Western halves ruled by multiple emperors. Beginning with Constantine the Great the Empire was Christianized, and a new capital founded at Constantinople. Migrations of Germanic tribes disrupted Roman rule from the late 4th century onwards, culminating in the eventual collapse of the Empire in the West in 476, replaced by the so-called barbarian kingdoms. The resultant cultural fusion of Greco-Roman, Germanic and Christian traditions formed the cultural foundations of Europe.\n\nThe Huns left practically no written records. There is no record of what happened between the time they left Mongolian Plateau and arrived in Europe 150 years later. The last mention of the northern Xiongnu was their defeat by the Chinese in 151 at the lake of Barkol, after which they fled to the western steppe at Kangju (centered on the city of Turkistan in Kazakhstan). Chinese records between the 3rd and 4th centuries suggest that a small tribe called Yueban, remnants of Northern Xiongnu, was distributed about the steppe of Kazakhstan.\n\nThe Hun-Xiongnu connection is controversial at best and is often disputed but is also not completely discredited. Historians have estimated that the origins of the Huns came somewhere's from within Kazakhstan. Approaching the Danube River in 370 A.D the Huns would repeatedly invaded Europe and wreaked havoc on the Roman Empire during Late Antiquity. They later dissolved and became part of the native population.\n\nThe Celts were a diverse group of tribal societies in Iron Age Europe. Proto-Celtic culture formed in the Early Iron Age in Central Europe (Hallstatt period, named for the site in present-day Austria). By the later Iron Age (La Tène period), Celts had expanded over wide range of lands: as far west as Ireland and the Iberian Peninsula, as far east as Galatia (central Anatolia), and as far north as Scotland. By the early centuries AD, following the expansion of the Roman Empire and the Great Migrations of Germanic peoples, Celtic culture had become\nrestricted to the British Isles (Insular Celtic), with the Continental Celtic languages extinct by the mid-1st millennium AD.\n\nMigration of Germanic peoples to Britain from what is now northern Germany and southern Scandinavia is attested from the 5th century (e.g. Undley bracteate). Based on Bede's \"Historia ecclesiastica gentis Anglorum\", the intruding population is traditionally divided into Angles, Saxons, and Jutes, but their composition was likely less clear-cut and may also have included ancient Frisians and Franks. The \"Anglo-Saxon Chronicle\" contains text that may be the first recorded indications of the movement of these Germanic Tribes to Britain. The Angles and Saxons and Jutes were noted to be a confederation in the Greek Geographia written by Ptolemy in around AD 150.\n\nAnglo-Saxon is the term usually used to describe the peoples living in the south and east of Great Britain from the early 5th century AD. Benedictine monk Bede identified them as the descendants of three Germanic tribes: the Angles, the Saxons, and the Jutes, from the Jutland peninsula and Lower Saxony (, Germany). The Angles may have come from Angeln, and Bede wrote their nation came to Britain, leaving their land empty. They spoke closely related Germanic dialects. The Anglo-Saxons knew themselves as the \"Englisc,\" from which the word \"English\" derives.\n\nViking refers to a member of the Norse (Scandinavian) peoples, famous as explorers, warriors, merchants, and pirates, who raided and colonized wide areas of Europe beginning in the late 8th. These Norsemen used their famed longships to travel. The Viking Age forms a major part of Scandinavian history, with a minor, yet significant part in European history.\n\nThe term Late Antiquity is the transitional centuries from Classical Antiquity to the Middle Ages in both mainland Europe and the Mediterranean world: generally from the end of the Roman Empire's Crisis of the 3rd century (c. 284) to the Islamic conquests and the re-organization of the Byzantine Empire under Heraclius that occurred in the seventh century. The beginning of the post-classical age (known as the Middle Ages for Europe) following the fall of the Western Roman Empire spanning roughly from AD 500 to 1500. Aspects of continuity with the earlier classical period are discussed in greater detail under the heading \"Late Antiquity\".\n\nThere has been attempt by scholars to connect European Late Antiquity to other areas in Eurasia. To an extent most centralized kingdoms within proximity to Steppe grasslands faced major challenges or in some cases complete destruction in the 5th–6th century in the case of nomadic invasions and political fragmentation. The Western Roman Empire in Europe and the Gupta Empire in India and North China were overwhelmed by tribal invasions. Nomadic invasions along with worldwide natural climate change, the Plague of Justinian and the rise of proselytizing religions changed the face of the Old World. Still disconnected was the New World who also built complex societies but at a separate and different pace. By 500 the world era of Post-classical history had begun.\n\n\nGeneral information\n\n\n"}
{"id": "58160447", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58160447", "title": "Artios Award for Outstanding Achievement in Comedy Pilot Casting", "text": "Artios Award for Outstanding Achievement in Comedy Pilot Casting\n\nThe Artios Award for Outstanding Achievement in Comedy Pilot Casting is an award handed out annually by the Casting Society of America. It was introduced at the Art Directors Guilds' twelfth annual honors, in 1996 (honoring work from the previous year, as well as early months of the ceremony's year), after first being grouped together with casting for dramatic pilot episodes for the category Outstanding Achievement in Pilot Casting, which was introduced at the seventh annual awards in 1991. It is an award that is given to casting directors for their work on television pilot episodes, or a series first episode. \n\nOutstanding Achievement in Pilot Casting\nOutstanding Achievement in Comedy Pilot Casting\n"}
{"id": "43588752", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43588752", "title": "Auteuring Nollywood", "text": "Auteuring Nollywood\n\nAuteuring Nollywood: Critical Perspectives on The Figurine is a book released on 31 July 2014, detailing the scholarly analysis of events in the 2009 film \"The Figurine\" directed by Kunle Afolayan. The book is the first book in the history of Nigerian Cinema to be devoted to the work of a single Nigerian film director and it contains scholarly essays, which explores \"the thematic focus and cinematic style employed in \"The Figurine\"\". It also contains interviews with the cast and crew of the film and insights into the African and Nigerian film industry. Since its release, the book has been getting rave reviews from critics, educators and film scholars.\n\n\"Auteuring Nollywood\" is a 455-page book and it contains a \"collection of scholarly essays,\" interrogating \"the thematic focus and cinematic style employed in \"The Figurine\"\"; it also provides series of interviews with the key actors and technicians that featured in the film, and explores the trends in the New Nigerian Cinema.\n\nThe idea of a book adaptation of \"The Figurine\" was originally the idea of Shina Afolayan, who is a Scholar in the department of Philosophy, University of Ibadan. He gave birth to the idea when the film was still in production; after seeing a rough cut of the film, he was very impressed with what he saw that he had to interview Kunle Afolayan, along with the other cast and crew of the film at the time. The idea was not taken seriously, until film scholars in other countries also got keen on writing on the film. The book's content was contributed by a number of scholars from various educational institutions, including: Sola Osofisan, Dele Layiwola, Chukwuma Okoye, Jane Thorburn, Matthew H. Brown, Gideon Tanimonure, A.G.A Bello, Foluke Ogunleye and Hyginus Ekwuazi. Foreword was written by Professor Jonathan Haynes of the Long Island University, an Afterword on \"Neo-Nollywood and its Other\" by Onookome Okome and the book as a whole was edited by Adeshina Afolayan. The book is packaged and published by Relentless Media, in conjunction with Golden Effects Services.\n\n\"Auteuring Nollywood\" was launched on 31 July 2014 at the Agip Recital Hall of the Muson Centre, Lagos. The event was attended by several political and film stakeholders, including Peace Anyim-Osigwe, the former C.E.O of Africa Film Academy, Governor of Kwara State: Governor Abdulfatah Ahmed (represented by Prince Deji Oni), Speaker of the Lagos State House of Assembly: Honourable Adeyemi Ikuforiji, Corporate Affairs Adviser of Nigerian Breweries: Kufre Ekanem, Nigerian Guild of Editors: Mr. Femi Adeshina, Chairman of Doyin Group of Companies: Chief Samuel Adedoyin, and the event was chaired by Rasheed Gbadamosi, former Nigerian Minister for National Planning. Other notable people at the event include: Chief Tunde Oloyede, Tunde Kelani, Mahmood Ali-Balogun, Yomi Fash Lanso, Ohaneze Ndi Igbo Nollywood, Gabriel Afolayan, Shina Afolayan, media mogul Dayo Adeneye, designer Deola Sagoe, Kenny Saint Brown, talking Drummer: Ara and comedians such as Ali Baba, Julius Agwu, Teju Babyface, Princess and Kofi. Comedian Gbenga Adeyinka was the Host of the event. Some challenges facing the film industry was also discussed at the event as well.\n\nThe book has been met with positive reception since its release. Ikechukwu Obiaya, the director of Nollywood Study Centre, Pan-African University, commends the quality of the book and stated: \"This is a highly impressive book. Hope it will be the first of many more to come of Kunle Afolayan's works\". He also comments that the book reveals interesting perspectives into \"artistic\" life of the filmmaker, Kunle Afolayan. Nduka Otiono of Association of Nigerian Authors (ANA), and African Studies, Carlton University stated: \"this book is seminal in its inauguration of a new chapter in the study of Nigeria's phenomenal contribution to global film culture,\" \"it makes a strong case for a more in-depth artistic and critical approach to the study of Nollywood that triangulates around orality\". Akin Adesokan of the Indiana University comments that the book is: \"comprehensive and informed about its subject and in unexpected ways gives solidity to the characterization of Nollywood as 'telling our own stories'\". Steve Ayorinde of Relentless Media, commended that \"Auteuring Nollywood\" arrived \"at a time that the Nigerian film industry is opening up to the Academy Awards and is also being duly acknowledged as a major contributor to the Nigerian economy\". He commented that the book is \"championing a new and positive development in cinematic and literary studies in Nigeria by focusing exclusively on the work of a single cineaste while also expanding the narrative around a film industry that continues to announce its arrival on the global scene in a spectacular way\".\n\nThe director of the original film, Kunle Afolayan revealed that after reading a copy of the book, he shed tears of joy, \"because this is about me and my work, and because I have never read a book so detailed in its analysis\". He also commented: \"Releasing one's movie to scholarly interrogation like this is one of the next levels for our film industry to climb and I'm excited that this is already happening through my film\". Peace Anyiam-Osigwe of Africa Film Academy comments that: \"AMAA is proud to be associated with this project because it serves an important purpose,\" \"It is significant to see that five years after \"The Figurine\" won AMAA's top award as Best Film, the film is still being discussed and has earned a rich collection of academic essays that are as important to the film as they are to the entire industry\". Danjuma Dadu of Nigerian Film Corporation stated: \"\"Auteuring Nollywood\" was a welcome addition to the body of knowledge on film discourse in Nigeria and that the Film Corporation is proud to be associated with it\".\n"}
{"id": "47673636", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47673636", "title": "Bulletin for the History of Chemistry", "text": "Bulletin for the History of Chemistry\n\nThe Bulletin for the History of Chemistry is a peer-reviewed scientific journal that publishes articles on the history of chemistry. The journal is published by the History of Chemistry Division of the American Chemical Society.\n"}
{"id": "2951090", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2951090", "title": "Café Central", "text": "Café Central\n\nCafé Central is a traditional Viennese café located at Herrengasse 14 in the Innere Stadt first district of Vienna, Austria. The café occupies the ground floor of the former Bank and Stockmarket Building, today called the Palais Ferstel after its architect Heinrich von Ferstel.\n\nThe café was opened in 1876, and in the late 19th century it became a key meeting place of the Viennese intellectual scene. Key regulars included: Peter Altenberg, Theodor Herzl, Alfred Adler, Egon Friedell, Hugo von Hofmannsthal, Anton Kuh, Adolf Loos, Leo Perutz, Alfred Polgar, Adolf Hitler, and Leon Trotsky. In January 1913 alone, Josip Broz Tito, Sigmund Freud, Joseph Stalin, Hitler, and Trotsky (the latter two being regulars) were patrons of the establishment.\n\nThe café was often referred to as the \"Chess school\" (\"Die Schachhochschule\") because of the presence of many chess players who used the first floor for their games.\n\nMembers of the Vienna Circle of logical positivists held many meetings at the café before and after World War I.\n\nA well known story is that when Victor Adler objected to Count Berchtold, foreign minister of Austria-Hungary, that war would provoke revolution in Russia, even if not in the Habsburg monarchy, he replied: \"And who will lead this revolution? Perhaps Mr. Bronstein (Leon Trotsky) sitting over there at the Cafe Central?\"\n\nThe café closed at the end of World War II. In 1975, the Palais Ferstel was renovated and the Central was newly opened, however in a different part of the building. In 1986, it was fully renovated once again.\n\nToday it is both a tourist spot and a popular café marked by its place in literary history.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "10160030", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10160030", "title": "Carlos Ramírez Sandoval", "text": "Carlos Ramírez Sandoval\n\nCarlos Ramirez Sandoval (4 November 1939 - 29 January 2016) was born in Morelia in the state of Michoacán, Mexico. He studied at the National Autonomous University of Mexico (UNAM) as well as the San Carlos Academy (now known as the Escuela Nacional de Artes Plasticas). He later obtained his Ph.D from the University of Paris.\n\nHe has been part of Mexican cultural activities since the 1960s as museographer, curator, administrator, teacher, writer and communicator among other positions. His major projects include installing some of the first exhibition galleries in the Academy of San Carlos, the overall plan and museography of the Museum of Technology of the Federal Electricity Commission (Comision Federal de Electricidad, C.F.E) in Mexico City of which he was the first director, setting up the \"Coloquio de Invierno\" along with Victor Flores Olea and Javier Wimer (among others) as well as bringing together the group of artists who collaborated on the 'Espacio Escultorico' at the UNAM. He has directed several museums and cultural centres including the defunct National Education Library, the Museum of Technology, and the Trotsky Museum which he helped revive and restore. It is only until recently that he has been widely acknowledged as an innovator within Mexican cultural circles.\n\nFollowing a prolonged battle with Parkinson's Disease, Dr. Ramirez Sandoval died in Mexico City on 29 January 2016.\n\n"}
{"id": "34238866", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34238866", "title": "Ceramic building material", "text": "Ceramic building material\n\nCeramic building material, often abbreviated to CBM, is an umbrella term used in archaeology to cover all building materials made from baked clay. It is particularly, but not exclusively, used in relation to Roman building materials. \n\nIt is a useful and necessary term because, especially when initially found in archaeological excavation, it may be difficult to distinguish, for example, fragments of bricks from fragments of roofing or flooring tiles. However, ceramic building materials are usually readily distinguishable from fragments of ceramic pottery by their rougher finish.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "25529610", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25529610", "title": "Chir Batti", "text": "Chir Batti\n\nChir Batti, Chhir Batti or Cheer batti is a ghost light reported in the Banni grasslands, a seasonal marshy wetlands and adjoining desert of the marshy salt flats of the Rann of Kutch near the India–Pakistan border in Kutch district, Gujarat State, India. Local villagers refer to the light as Chir Batti in their Kutchhi-Sindhi language, with Chir meaning ghost and Batti meaning light.\n\nIt is described as an unexplained light occurring on dark nights as bright as a mercury lamp that changes its colour to blue, red and yellow and resembles a moving ball (reported also pear shaped form) of fire, which may move as fast as an arrow but may also stop. As per local folklore, these lights have been a part of life in the Banni grasslands and the adjoining Rann of Kutch for centuries, but are little known beyond the immediate area and people continue to call them \"ghost lights\". Witnesses claim the lights at times appear to be playing hide and seek or following them. Some reports claim the light can only be seen after 8 pm on dark nights, are always two to ten feet above the ground, and if followed during the night, one could be misled from the road and lose their way in thorny jungles or desert of the salt flats of the Rann. A team of local and US ornithologists and soldiers of the Indian Border Security Force (BSF) who patrol the adjoining Rann of Kutch international border area of India with Pakistan have allegedly seen the light.\n\nIn modern science, it is generally accepted that most ignes fatui are caused by the oxidation of phosphine (PH), diphosphane (PH), and methane (CH). These compounds, produced by organic decay, can cause photon emissions. Since phosphine and diphosphane mixtures spontaneously ignite on contact with the oxygen in air, only small quantities of it would be needed to ignite the much more abundant methane to create ephemeral fires. Furthermore, phosphine produces phosphorus pentoxide as a by-product, which forms phosphoric acid upon contact with water vapor.\n\n"}
{"id": "50841831", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50841831", "title": "Comparison of the Benelux countries", "text": "Comparison of the Benelux countries\n\nThis article is a comparison of the Benelux countries.\n\n Luxembourg, Netherlands and Belgium were among the founders of the predecessor of the OECD, the OEEC, in 1948\n"}
{"id": "727075", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=727075", "title": "Compulsory purchase order", "text": "Compulsory purchase order\n\nA compulsory purchase order (CPO) is a legal function in the United Kingdom and Ireland that allows certain bodies which need to obtain land or property to do so without the consent of the owner. It may be enforced if a proposed development is considered one for public betterment; for example, when building motorways where a land owner does not want to sell. Similarly, if town councils wish to develop a town centre, they may issue compulsory purchase orders. CPOs can also be used to acquire historic buildings in order to preserve them from neglect.\n\nIn Ireland, CPOs became quite common in the early 21st century due to the massive road upgrade programme under the National Development Plan. CPOs are also used for railway projects. If one objects to the issuing of a CPO, one may appeal to the High Court. Compensation is available to ensure that the person is restored, as far as possible, to the same position that they were in before the land and property were compulsorily purchased, so that the person is left in the same financial position after the CPO as they were in before the process.\n\nIn the United Kingdom, most Orders are made as subordinate legislation under powers given to Local Authorities in existing legislation (e.g. an Order for road works is made under the Highways Act 1980). Whilst the powers are strong, the Authority must demonstrate that the taking of the land is necessary and there is a \"compelling case in the public interest\". Owners or occupiers can challenge this, and their objection will be heard by an independent Inspector.\n\nCompensation rights usually include the value of the property, costs of acquiring and moving to a new property, and sometimes additional payments. Costs of professional advice regarding compensation are usually reimbursed by the Authority, so that people affected by a compulsory purchase order can seek advice from a solicitor and a surveyor and expect to be reimbursed.\n\n"}
{"id": "53610744", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53610744", "title": "Conservation and restoration of taxidermy", "text": "Conservation and restoration of taxidermy\n\nThe conservation of taxidermy is the ongoing maintenance and preservation of zoological specimens that have been mounted or stuffed for display and study. Taxidermy specimens contain a variety of organic materials, such as fur, bone, feathers, skin, and wood, as well as inorganic materials, such as burlap, glass, and foam. Due to their composite nature, taxidermy specimens require special care and conservation treatments for the different materials.\n\nTraditional taxidermy specimens are cleaned and preserved animal skins that have been mounted over a form. Full mounts are the entire specimen, while shoulder mounts only include the head, neck, and shoulders. Study skins are another form of taxidermy in which the skins of small mammals and birds are stuffed with cotton, wool, or synthetic fibers in order to support the skin and original body shape. These are typically used by researchers rather than put on display.\n\nTaxidermy has a robust history, and specimens can be found in a number of public and private institutions, as well as personal collections. Natural history museums, zoos, science & nature centers, historic houses, art museums, and children’s museums are examples of institutions that may have taxidermy specimens in their collections.\n\nWhile it may not be necessary to conserve mounts or skins of commonly occurring animals beyond educational use, some taxidermy mounts represent extinct or critically endangered species. The Smithsonian’s National Museum of Natural History houses Martha, the last passenger pigeon and a some collections still have Great Auk specimens, a bird species that went extinct in 1844.\n\nAs with other types of collections, taxidermy specimens are susceptible to agents of deterioration, including pests, lights, temperature, humidity, and custodial neglect. Improper storage, display, and handling of taxidermy specimens can lead to many of these causes of deterioration.\n\nPests, such as dermestid beetles, clothes moths, and rodents, can cause damage to taxidermy specimens by eating materials and leaving larvae husks behind. Dermestid beetles in particular can digest keratin and will feed on hair, horns, and feathers. Signs of a pest infestation in taxidermy include small piles of dust (known as frass) underneath a specimen and shedding skin from growing larvae. Additional signs of an infestation include chewing marks, loss of hair, fur, or feathers on mounts, webbing, and fecal pellets or stains.\n\nOver time, taxidermy specimens can accumulate layers of dust, dirt, and other airborne pollutants, especially if they are house on open shelving or display. Additionally, cases and containers made of unstable materials can off gas pollutants, such as H2s, SO2, formaldehyde, peroxides, and organic acids, which can damage the surfaces of taxidermy.\n\nFading of fur, feathers, and skins is almost exclusively caused by improper lighting conditions, such as long-term exposure to ultraviolet (UV) light. UV light can come from both natural and artificial lighting sources.\n\nSpecimens may lose fur or feathers when exposed to warm environments because the high temperature causes residual fats in skins to release.\n\nTaxidermy specimens are especially susceptible to fluctuations in humidity due to their composite materials. Relative humidity fluctuations below 40% can cause greater damage than fluctuations above 40%. Dry environments with low humidity may cause de-lamination or cracking in horns, bones, and turtle shells. Additionally, dry environments can cause skins and leathers to contract and shrink over the support form, which eventually leads to cracking and splitting. High humidity and moist environments can promote mold growth and attract pests. Bones will contract and swell due to humidity fluctuations, which may lead to cracking and splitting. This may lead to further structural damage if the bones are used as support within the specimen.\n\nBreakage of appendages is likely to occur if specimens are not properly handled. Bird specimens are especially susceptible to breaking at the neck, while mammals’ ears tend to be the first component to break or become disfigured.\n\nGiven their unique shape and form, taxidermy specimens can be difficult to ship and if not packed properly, can be easily damaged. Ears, necks, and birds’ beaks can break or bend during shipment if not properly supported.\n\nSome taxidermy specimens are vulnerable to direct damage by humans, especially if the species is associated with a valuable body part. Thieves may opt to take only part of a taxidermy specimen, which can impact the structural integrity of the entire specimen.\n\nSometimes taxidermy specimens are susceptible to damage that is difficult to avoid and inherent to the nature of taxidermy. Metals, such as nickel and copper, used in support structures and forms can react to fatty acids in skins and cause corrosion. Gravity can also negatively impact taxidermy specimens by pulling unsupported components, such as tails and horns, away from the main structure, thus causing tears and breaks. Gravitational damage typically occurs with specimens on display, where support structures are not part of a diorama or case. However, hanging study skins in storage experience a gravitational pull that causes stretching and tearing of the skins.\n\nBefore extensive handling, hands-on display use or conservation treatments are carried out, it is important to test taxidermy specimens for hazardous materials. Arsenic, mercury, napthalene, paradichlorobenze, asbestos, and DDT are all commonly found in taxidermy collections. These chemicals were used to treat skins during preparation and helped reduce mold and pest damage. However, they can cause serious health concerns and illness in humans. Conservators may test for the presence of these hazardous materials in order to determine the appropriate course of treatment. In addition to testing, conservators may also review museum records, inspect specimens, or examine storage areas to determine what hazardous materials may be present.\n\nTreatments should be carried out by conservators or qualified taxidermists. Some taxidermists have experience working with museums and can coordinate with conservators to preserve specimens. When cleaning specimens, it is necessary to wear protective gear such as nitrile gloves, dust masks, eye protection, and lab coats.\n\nTaxidermy specimens can gather dirt and dust over time and may only need basic remedial treatments to be conserved. Basic cleaning can be done on a regular basis to help keep specimens in good condition.\n\nFur may be gently cleaned with a soft-bristled brush or comb, which will help loosen particulates that have built up. A vacuum with a soft brush attachment will also work to remove dust and dirt. For particularly dirty furs, conservators may opt to wash the specimen’s fur with water and a mild detergent or soap. If a mount has been exposed to fire and is covered with fine soot, a smoke sponge may be used to wipe down the fur. Some taxidermists promote cleaning of fur with furniture polish, however, this method will cause wax to build up and eventually dull the color of the fur.\n\nDust and dirt can accumulate feathers and can be cleaned manually. The preferred methods are gentle brushing with a soft bristled brush or pinpoint vacuuming through a screen. These methods will leave the feathers in good condition in their natural alignment. However, solvents may be needed to clean feathers if dust is held in place by grease, which can leach out of skins. Distilled water may be used if dry methods fail, but more stubborn dust may need to be cleaned with non-denatured 70% ethanol. However, solvents may strip natural oils in feathers and leave them brittle.\n\nExposed skin on a mount, such as noses, mouths, or birds’ feet, may be cleaned with a soft microfiber cloth or brush. Some birds’ feet may be artificially colored and will not react well if solvents are applied.\n\nHorns that are starting to crack may be treated with conservation-grade beeswax polish that will help protect against dehydration. Beaks are another component of taxidermy specimens that are typically artificially colored and should only be cleaned with brushes and soft clothes.\n\nTaxidermy specimens have glass eyes that can be gently cleaned with glass cleaner.\n\nIf a taxidermy specimen has been significantly damaged, conservators may have to use more thorough and sometimes invasive techniques to restore them. These techniques can help to stabilize the specimen's condition while also restoring the appearance to be more scientifically accurate. Before undertaking any repairs, conservators use a variety of imaging techniques, such as photography and x-rays, to get a good idea of the structure and level of damage of the specimen.\n\nFill materials may be used on taxidermy specimens to correct areas of loss. It is important that the specimen is in stable condition because many fill materials have drawbacks that can further damage the specimen. Fills typically consist of a backing made of inert fabric combined with a resin, starch, or cellulose ether. For example, bird specimens that have been badly damaged by pests may be repaired with a mixture of synthetic fabrics and wheat starch. This mixture is used to infill areas of loss and feathers are replaced where possible with a wheat starch paste adhesive. In addition to infilling, taxidermy specimens may require structural repairs. Small specimens that have experienced loss of a head or appendage, a new wire armature may be inserted into the specimen in order to remount the broken piece. Adhesive can be used to further secure the broken piece to its original body.\n\nA relatively recent development in taxidermy restoration, metal complex dyes have been used to recolor fur. The American Museum of Natural History performed extensive research and tests using these dyes to recolor the furs of taxidermy specimens during the restoration of the Hall of North American Mammals. Many of the dyes have a high lightfastness and are more resistant to fading. When applied to fur, they also allow for a more natural look and feel. Another major benefit to using dyes, as opposed to acrylic paints, to recolor fur is they are reversible. The dyes can be reduced or entirely removed with application of ethanol. Research is still being done into the dyes’ lightfastness and fixability, as well as whether or not they cause the fur to degrade over time.\n\n3D printing is a newer method being used to replace foliage in some dioramas because it can quickly replicate hundreds of leaves.\n\nPests may be treated with a number of methods, including freezing, insecticide, or anoxia. These treatments help kill off adults and larvae, though specimens may require additional cleaning and stabilization after these treatments are performed.\n\nIn order to prolong the life of a taxidermy specimen, it is necessary for museums and conservators to implement preventative care and maintenance strategies. These strategies help protect specimens from damage caused by humidity, temperature, pests, humans, and more.\n\nOne of the most effective ways to prevent damage from occurring to taxidermy collections is to establish a monitoring system or procedure that routinely checks the condition of specimens. When not on display, taxidermy specimens should be housed in well-sealed cabinets or cases. Metal cabinets may be made of aluminum and/or stainless steel with an epoxy powder coating and are effective at preventing pest and light damage. Wood cabinets can provide better protection from fluctuations in relative humidity, though they off-gas chemicals that may damage collections. Though it is essential for cabinets and cases to be well-sealed, they should also allow for minimal airflow to prevent off-gassed chemicals or humidity from building up inside the container. For taxidermy specimens housed on open shelving, a polythene sheet can provide temporary protection from pollutants, though dust may accumulate electrostatically (2).\nControlled lighting conditions with UV filters are important for reducing fading in taxidermy specimens. Specimens should be regularly rotated in order to reduce light damage. 50-100 lux is the recommended light exposure for taxidermy, though some types of feathers are susceptible to damage at 50 lux. The maximum annual exposure levels for biological specimens, feathers, fur, and leather is 180,000 lux hours. In the span of one year, a taxidermy mount will fade half as much if displayed in low light compared to the same conditions in high light. \nIdeal relative humidity conditions for taxidermy specimens are 40% minimum and 55% maximum. An integrated pest management system is important to manage and monitor pests that can damage collections.\n\nProper handling techniques are essential to protect specimens from damage. Conservators will inspect taxidermy specimens for signs of weakness or detachable parts before moving the object. It is important for anyone handling taxidermy to remove jewelry, such as watches, rings, or bracelets, that may scratch or snag parts of the specimen. If the taxidermy specimen is mounted on a base or in a tray, it is preferred to only handle the base or tray while moving the object, rather than the specimen itself. Conservators will also use a secondary support, such as padding, to support the taxidermy specimen while in transit. Wearing nitrile gloves while handling specimens will help prevent oil and perspiration transfer.\n\nBases of taxidermy mounts should be affixed to a shipping container with screws, straps, staples or tapes, with light and loose packing materials supporting the specimen’s structure. This keeps the specimen stable during shipment, and informs the receiver which way the specimen is oriented within the container. Additionally, polystyrene or polyethylene bags may be used to cover taxidermy specimens during shipment.\n\nIn 2011-2012, the American Museum of Natural History undertook the restoration of 43 dioramas in its Bernard Family Hall of North American Mammals. In addition to repairing mounts, conservators worked on restoring the dioramas’ set pieces and background paintings. In order to restore the taxidermy mounts and specimens, conservators removed smaller animals from the dioramas and built temporary scaffolding around larger animals, such as the 500-pound bison. Many of the larger mounts are affixed to their diorama case and could not easily be moved without risking further damage. One of the main goals of the project was to bring back scientific accuracy to the specimens, including their fur coloring. The museum’s conservators tested and developed a new method of treatment for recoloring furs that uses metal dyes instead of traditional materials, such as paints and hair dyes. Other details of specimens were updated and restored - the cougar’s whiskers were replaced with porcupine quills to give the face a fuller appearance and veins were added to the antelope jackrabbit’s ears to give a realistic appearance. In order to protect the restored taxidermy specimens and dioramas, UV-filtered lights were installed throughout the mammal hall.\n\nIn 2011, the Smithsonian’s National Postal Museum restored its beloved “Owney”, the canine mascot of the Railway Mail Service. Owney was taxidermied in 1987 and had undergone previous restoration attempts. Using new methods and treatments, conservators removed dust, built-up wax, paint, and traces of arsenic. They also reshaped his face to be more accurate based on photographic evidence, as well as replaced his vest with a more accurate leather harness. As a result of the restoration, Owney’s fur is fuller, his tail is fluffier, and he has a more historically accurate appearance.\n\nAlmost 200 years old, Vizir was one of Napoleon Bonaparte’s horses, and its mount has been on display at the Musee de l’Armee in Paris. The horse was showing significant signs of deterioration and a campaign was launched to fund its restoration. Conservators and taxidermists worked to rehydrate the skin, repair tears in the body, and restore coloration to the fur. Once the treatments were completed, Vizir was placed in a climate-controlled case to prevent further deterioration.\n\nThe Smithsonian National Museum of Natural History revamped its main rotunda in 2015, and restored its centerpiece elephant, Henry, which has been on display since 1959. Previous restorations have been performed, including one in the 1970s that involved replacing the tusks with fiberglass replicas to reduce stress on the specimen. The elephant was dusted and vacuumed to remove debris, then waxes were used to infill cracks and make other repairs. The skin was retextured and recolored to more closely resemble an elephant hide.\n\n"}
{"id": "11226549", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11226549", "title": "Domestic drama", "text": "Domestic drama\n\nDomestic drama expresses and focuses on the realistic everyday lives of middle or lower classes in a certain society, generally referring to the post-Renaissance eras. According to the \"English Communications Syllabus\", domestic drama refers to a dramatic story containing an emphasis on its “characters' intimate relationships and their responses to [the] unfolding events in their lives.” The characters, their lives, and the events that occur within the show are usually classified as 'ordinary' events, lives, and characters, but this does not limit the extent of what domestic drama can represent. Domestic drama does, however, take the approach in which it “concerns people much like ourselves, taken from the lower and middle classes of society, who struggle with everyday problems such as poverty, sickness, crime, and family strife.” \n\nDomestic is derived from the Latin domus, or home. The word domestic is defined as “of or relating to the household.” Drama receives the definition of “A prose or verse composition, especially one telling a serious story, that is intended for representation by actors impersonating the characters and performing the dialogue and action,” and it is derived from the Greek word drao, to act or to take action. The combination of both domestic and drama provides a literal translation of “a serious story relating to the household,” clearly a synonymous definition to the given definition provided by the English Communications Syllab\n\nDramatic works have nearly always contained a sense of domestic drama within its fundamental plot line. Even in the early ages of Greek drama, there has been a sense of ordinary people's struggles with their lives (though this cannot be classified as domestic drama due to the incorporation of the Greek gods interfering with the common people and the enabling of the common people to have “godlike” attributes). Medieval theatre tended to express religious themes within their shows with miracles and the creation of morality plays, in which the shows were used as religious allegories. Though not yet emphasizing the ordinary lives, the development of dramatic works is slowly working towards more realistic plot lines, one of the essential elements in domestic drama.\nRenaissance theatre marks the arrival of pastoral drama, drama referring to the relationships of the rustics. Though this describes the events of 'ordinary people', the shows tended to stretch realism, focussed mainly on the romantic relationships of the rustics, and were decorated with an emphasis on the comedic aspect of theater. Pastoral drama was considered to be more successful than the traditional comedies and tragedies, enforcing the further development into domestic drama.\n\nDrama in the late seventeenth century consisted of neoclassical comedies focusing on the comedic relationships within the upper classes. This era also consisted of the Restoration drama and placed an emphasis on the usage of poetic language, “sensational incidents, and epic personages” within the show. These styles of shows are not considered domestic dramas because they focus on the relationships of the higher classes, as opposed to the middle or lower classes. This further develops into domestic drama as the plot lines become more realistic and centered around characters' relationships and their actions towards each other.\n\nThe eighteenth century marks the arrival of domestic drama as the shows start focusing on the problems of the ordinary people. The early eighteenth century playwrights used domestic drama to express the “trend toward sentimental bourgeois realism.” These new domestic dramas also incorporated realistic comedies of fairly sophisticated characterizations [with] middle-class morality. These early domestic dramas are classified as part of the Romantic era of all types of arts.\n\nNineteenth century drama took the complete step in incorporating realism into drama, thus resulting in more serious and philosophical drama. Characters and settings gradually developed into the realistic truths of the current society. Along with realism was naturalism: “selective realism emphasizing the more sordid and pessimistic aspects of life.” This movement of combined realism and naturalism gave way to the “slice-of-life” shows commonly synonymous with domestic drama. One outstanding playwright of this era was Henrik Ibsen of Norway. His frequent usage of realism within his shows “brought to a climax the realistic movement of the nineteenth century and also served as a bridge to twentieth century symbolism.” Ibsen used middle-class characters dealing with his complex plots and “surpassed other such works” of his time. Playwrights such as Ibsen have drawn much attention to domestic drama and have brought this method to its high significant stature in modern theatrical works.\n\nThe twentieth century introduced symbolism into the makings of domestic dramas, ultimately causing variations within domestic drama. Early twentieth century shows incorporated such psychological devices as “minimal scenery, telegraphic dialogue, talking machines, and characters portrayed as types rather than individuals.” Domestic drama suddenly became a combination of naturalism, expressionism, symbolism, and commonly used psychological affairs. The classification of domestic dramas became unclear as shows challenged new ideas and created a difficulty in determining the illusions and realism of a show.\n\nModern dramas usually revolve around psychological, social, and political affairs, all of which seem to have their roots in domestic drama. Modern works also use interpretive ideas, such as “distinctive voice and vision, stark settings, austere language in spare dialog, meaningful silences, the projection of a powerful streak of menace, and outbursts of real or implied violence.” The utensils of dramatic works have greatly expanded, but all still carry the roots of domestic drama. Domestic drama also carries the implications of current affairs with society: such as civil rights, feminism, and current political and sociological disputes. Current domestic drama itself tends to express the “war-at-home” style of theater, whereas twentieth century domestic drama could be classified as experimental theater or symbolic theater.\n\nDomestic drama tends to appeal to the audience because most of the audience can relate to the events within a domestic drama. The audience is appealed to this style of drama in four ways: empathy, humor, suspense, and resolution of the issues. This group of spectators can empathize with the domestic drama at hand because the domestic drama touches incidents that are common to the 'ordinary' people. Many playwright use the audience's empathy to manipulate the proposed expression of the show. David Williamson's “Brilliant Lies” uses “domestic unit battling” to create sympathy from the audience as they are confronted with the issue.\nHumor provides the entertainment value within a domestic drama as these usually touch base with serious matters. The entertainment value of a show keeps the people engaged without having to continually use serious turns of events in order to maintain an audience's interest.\nSuspense provides “dramatic irony” as the audience indulges itself within the characters' situation and privacy of their backgrounds. Suspense is used in a domestic drama in order for the audience to react with the characters of the show. This “[positions] the audience to feel privileged and therefore involved with the unfolding drama.”\nAs in all shows, an audience expects a resolution to the conflict within a show. Domestic dramas drive the show to its resolution to keep the audience desiring to reach the climax. Domestic dramas use such a technique that is very similar to the style of modern soap operas.\n\nThe text of a domestic drama follows a specific guideline in order to stay within this genre: subject, structure, and language. By deviating from this guideline too excessively, the classification as a domestic drama becomes problematic.\nThe subject of a domestic drama must be that of the 'ordinary' people. The audience (generally 'ordinary') needs to connect with the characters of the domestic drama, and the plot must the following the “domestic sphere” of “traditional families, urban family units, or domestic households.” The subject of the domestic drama could also imply to relationships at a workplace as this does relate to the 'ordinary' events of 'ordinary' people. The subjects of concern could vastly range from poverty to family strife, from civil rights to economic injustices. Due to the audience relationship with the material of the domestic drama, most domestic dramas are most successful in the society in which the plot is direct towards because the audience is most familiar with the culture of the show.\nDomestic dramas follow a fairly linear structure and generally have a sort of patriarchal figure as a representative of the family. This patriarchal figure provides the guidelines of the everyday nature of the subjects of the show. Confrontations with the patriarchal figure are also a common structure within domestic dramas.\nThe language used in a domestic drama generally relates with the 'ordinary' subjects of a show to reinforce the “realistic impression” of the show onto and audience. The usage of a specific language enables a specific audience to further connect with the subjects of the domestic drama as language is an “intimate personal way of communicating.”\n\nTheater has been commonly used as a public expression of the humanitarian affairs of a certain era. From the seventeenth to the nineteenth era, drama expressed the ideals of the caste and court system, with nobility on high and rustics down low. This expression gave way to the public in order to see and understand how this system was to work within their society. Some might say that theater has played a very important role in the shaping of societies when used in this way. Nineteenth century induced the importance of the middle-class within drama and introduced the role of the bourgeois and the usage of aristocratic entertainment. The political aspects of a certain era were inevitably present within these shows, especially shows leading towards domestic drama. Theater was considered to have “good [socially] position” characters against the immoral acts of society, usually a sort of infringement against a certain code of behavior. Theater was the way to explain the rights and wrongs of a certain lifestyle in a society, especially if the characters were of the 'ordinary' people so that the audience could relate with the characters. Modern drama changed this aspect of theater as it was not directed towards any one class in society, but rather the collaboration of the artistic aspects within these classes. Such a combination created much difficulty in domestic drama as domestic drama appeals to a specific class.\n\n"}
{"id": "29423463", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29423463", "title": "Early American molded glass", "text": "Early American molded glass\n\nEarly American molded glass refers to functional and decorative objects, such as bottles and dishware, that were manufactured in the United States in the 19th century. The objects were produced by blowing molten glass into a mold, thereby causing the glass to assume the shape and pattern design of the mold.\nCommon blown molded tableware items bearing designs include salt dishes, sugar bowls, creamers, celery stands, decanters, and drinking glasses. Household items, other than dishware, made using the three-mold method include inkwells, oil lamps, birdcage fountains, hats, medicine and perfume bottles, and witch balls. Whiskey flasks bearing unique designs were made in two part molds. Undecorated bottles used as containers for a variety of liquids were blown into square molds to give them corners so they could be packed into compartments of wooden cases.\n\nAfter the War of 1812, American glass manufacturers began using molds as an inexpensive way to produce glassware similar in appearance to the very costly cut glass that was imported from Waterford, Ireland. A dearth of skilled glassblowers may have also led to the increased use of molds. Blown molded glass was popular for about twenty years before it was superseded by pressed glass.\n\nThe process of blowing molten glass into a mold made of clay is known to have been employed in Syrian workshops as early as the 4th century BCE. Romans adopted the technique in the 1st century CE. Molds used in 19th-century European and American glass factories were cast in iron or bronze. They were made by professional mold manufacturers in many large United States cities and were universally available. Although no intact molds have been found, fragments of molds have been excavated at glass manufacturing sites in Sandwich, Massachusetts and Kent and Mantua, Ohio.\n\nThe mold, which was placed on the floor or below floor level, was not three molds, but one mold in three parts. It was made of hinged sections that could be opened and closed by means of a foot or hand operated treadle. One of the vertical walls of the mold was permanently fastened to the base and the other walls were attached to it by removable pins. Designs were cut into the inside walls of all mold parts. Some molds impressed a pattern on the object and base, while others omitted the base. Most molds were in three parts, but could also be constructed of two or four parts. Regardless of the number of parts of a mold, all objects produced in a mold are called three-mold glass.\n\nThe process of molding was just the initial step in the manufacture of three-mold glass. After removal from the mold, the glass was expanded by means of additional blowing. The object was then cracked off at the rim and hand finished by grinding and polishing. Pitcher rims, decanter necks and bases all required hand work. In New England, pieces were often finished with threaded lips. Handles were also added after removal from the mold. Lamps, candlesticks and vases were pressed in separate parts and fused together while still hot. Finished pieces were fire polished by reheating in the furnace, which softened the pattern and gave the piece a diffuse brilliance.\n\nBetween 1820 and 1840, one hundred glass factories are known to have been in operation in the U.S. It is known from descriptions in advertisements and invoices that the Boston and Sandwich Glass Company and the New England Glass Company were major producers of blown three-mold glass. Most colorless glass was made by the New England Glass Company in Cambridge, Massachusetts. Also producing three-mold glass in New England was the Boston Crown Glass Manufactory, as well as the Quincy Glass Works in Massachusetts, which made snuff bottles molded to a square form. Three-piece molds were used from 1815 to 1835 in midwestern houses, most notably in Ohio. Marlboro Street Factory in Keene, NH manufactured dark green and amber bottle glass and was known for the manufacture of inkwells. In New York and New Jersey, famous glass manufacturers of blown three-mold glass include the Mount Vernon Glass Company, Brooklyn Flint Glass Works, and Jersey City Glassworks. The Coventry, CT Glass Company was also a manufacturer of three-mold items. It is believed that glass factories in Pittsburgh, Philadelphia and Baltimore also produced three-mold glassware, but since excavation is not possible, no proof exists. Some foreign molded three-part glass manufactured in England, Ireland (two part molds) and France (three part molds) in the early 19th century, is sometimes mistaken for American glass.\n\nColors of blown three-mold glass are relatively rare, however, some objects in deep gray-blue, sapphire blue, olive green, yellow-green, citron, aquamarine and amethyst-purple have survived. Items made of colorless glass and green bottle glass are most commonly seen.\n\nThe three main categories of three-mold glass patterns are Geometric, Arch and Baroque. Diamond patterning, also known as diamond diapering or diamond quilting, is the most common Geometric design found on molded glass. Other common designs include ribbed and popcorn. Items bearing Geometric designs are the most numerous and include tableware, such as decanters, stoppers, cruets, casters, condiment sets, pitchers, punch bowls, pans, dishes, preserve dishes, mugs, tumblers, wine glasses, celery glasses and salts, and doll dishes. Also in the Geometric category is ribbing, which could be imprinted on the object vertically, horizontally, diagonally or in a swirled pattern. Ribs can be narrow or wide, differently spaced, rounded, flat or inverted. Arch, the most rare of the three designs, uses a series of Gothic (pointed) or Roman (rounded) arches. Sometimes both types of arches appear. Baroque patterning includes Shell (rocaille) ornaments with broad, rounded, vertical ribbing and often combined with design of a band of palmettes or trefoils. Other Baroque designs include stars in circles, rosettes, thick chains(guilloches), hearts, a horn of plenty, pinwheels, and fluid drapery.\n\nDesigns imprinted on whiskey bottles include political events, celebrities, the American eagle, horn of plenty, head of Lady Liberty, agricultural symbols and Masonic emblems. A favorite whiskey bottle illustration was the head of George Washington under which was inscribed a text. Two texts found on bottles with the Washington design are “The Father of His Country,” and “I Have Endeavor’d to do my Duty.” Lafayette with DeWitt Clinton were popular whiskey bottle designs at the time of the opening of the Erie Canal. Other political figures include General Jackson and Zachary Taylor. Taylor flasks have been discovered with the captions, “Corn for the world,” and “Gen’l Taylor Never Surrenders.” Images of John Quincy Adams, Henry Clay and William Henry Harrison also appear on flasks.\n\nThe main characteristic that sets apart three-mold ware from pressed glass is that the inverse of the pattern of three-mold glass can be felt on the inside of the object. Pressed glass is patterned only on the exterior and smooth inside. Pressed glass, termed “mold-pressed,” has an interior form independent of the exterior, in contrast to mold-blown glass, whose interior corresponds to the outer form. Plates, lamp bases and door knobs were usually made of pressed glass.\n\nMolded glass can be easily distinguished from cut glass, since cut glass sparkles with prismatic brilliance as the sharp angles of the cuts in the glass break up light into all colors of the spectrum, and molded glass has a softer, more rounded surface which transmits a silvery, more luminous gleam. Tiny raised hairline seams where the mold sections were joined and a slight displacement in parts of the pattern are often seen on molded glass.\n\nAlthough Early American glassware advertisements are often found using the terms “moulded” and “prest” interchangeably, pattern-molded (pressed) and blown three-mold glass were manufactured by means of two distinct processes. Blown three-mold glass was sometimes called “prest” (pressed) because the glass was blown into a mold and “impressed” with a design. Various names for blown three mold glass have been used by collectors since its rediscovery in the early 20th century. It was first called “Stiegel glass” by collector Frederick W. Hunter because a few pieces of three-mold glass were included in his Stiegel collection. Later, it was called Stoddard glass, after the name of a factory that, in fact, never made three-mold glass. In the 1920s, American glass writer Rhea Mansfield Knittle unsuccessfully tried to introduce the term “insufflated.” Blown-three-mold pieces might also be called “blown molded” as well as “pre-blown-three-mold” because molten glass was partially inflated before it was inserted into the mold. The names currently used by collectors are three-mold or blown three-mold.\n"}
{"id": "36720952", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36720952", "title": "Elizabeth Wayland Barber", "text": "Elizabeth Wayland Barber\n\nElizabeth Jane Wayland Barber (also E. J. W. Barber) is an American author and expert on textiles, as well as Professor emerita of archaeology and linguistics at Occidental College.\n\nWayland Barber earned a bachelor's degree from Bryn Mawr College in archaeology in 1963, and she earned her PhD from Yale University in linguistics in 1968.\n\nHer books include \"Prehistoric Textiles: The Development of Cloth in the Neolithic and Bronze Ages with Special Reference to the Aegean\" (1992), \"Women's Work: The First 20,000 Years; Women, Cloth, and Society in Early Times\" (1995), \"The Mummies of Ürümchi\" (1999), \"When They Severed Earth from Sky: How the Human Mind Shapes Myth\" (2004, coauthor with Paul T. Barber) and \"The Dancing Goddesses: Folklore, Archaeology, and the Origins of European Dance\" (2013).\n\nAmong other things, she has proposed that if 19th-century scientists had thought to name prehistorical periods with an eye on women’s work and the things they invented, instead of focusing their naming only on men’s more durable inventions (Iron Age, Bronze Age, etc.), that they might have acknowledged women's invention of string as what she has named “The String Revolution.”\n\nIn addition to her academic work, as of 2009 she has directed and choreographed for her own folk and historical dance troupe for 38 years.\n\nIn 2016 and 2017 Dr. Barber's dance troupe performed at UCLA (See Video), Occidental College, and 2017 Sunshine Statewide Folk Dance Festival.\n\n"}
{"id": "524981", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=524981", "title": "Ernst Abbe", "text": "Ernst Abbe\n\nErnst Karl Abbe HonFRMS (23 January 1840 – 14 January 1905) was a German physicist, optical scientist, entrepreneur, and social reformer. Together with Otto Schott and Carl Zeiss, he laid the foundation of modern optics. Abbe developed numerous optical instruments. He was a co-owner of Carl Zeiss AG, a German manufacturer of research microscopes, astronomical telescopes, planetariums and other optical systems.\n\nAbbe was born 23 January 1840 in Eisenach, Saxe-Weimar-Eisenach, to Georg Adam Abbe and Elisabeth Christina Barchfeldt. He came from a humble home — his father was a foreman in a spinnery. Supported by his father's employer, Abbe was able to attend secondary school and to obtain the general qualification for university entrance with fairly good grades, at the Eisenach Gymnasium, which he graduated from in 1857. By the time he left school, his scientific talent and his strong will had already become obvious. Thus, in spite of the family's strained financial situation, his father decided to support Abbe's studies at the Universities of Jena (1857–1859) and Göttingen (1859–1861). During his time as a student, Abbe gave private lessons to improve his income. His father's employer continued to fund him. Abbe was awarded his PhD in Göttingen on 23 March 1861. While at school, he was influenced by Bernhard Riemann and Wilhelm Eduard Weber, who also happened to be one of the Göttingen Seven. This was followed by two short assignments at the Göttingen observatory and at Physikalischer Verein in Frankfurt (an association of citizens interested in physics and chemistry that was founded by Johann Wolfgang von Goethe in 1824 and still exists today). On 8 August 1863 he qualified as a university lecturer at the University of Jena. In 1870, he accepted a contract as an associate professor of experimental physics, mechanics and mathematics in Jena. In 1871, he married Else Snell, daughter of the mathematician and physicist Karl Snell, one of Abbe's teachers, with whom he had two daughters. He attained full professor status by 1879. He became director of the Jena astronomical and meteorological observatory in 1878. In 1889, he became a member of the Bavarian Academy of Sciences and Humanities. He also was a member of the Saxon Academy of Sciences. He was relieved of his teaching duties at the University of Jena in 1891. Abbe died 14 January 1905 in Jena. He was an atheist.\n\nIn 1866, he became a research director at the Zeiss Optical Works, and in 1886 he invented the apochromatic lens, a microscope lens which eliminates both the primary and secondary color distortion. By 1870, Abbe invented the Abbe condenser, used for microscope illumination. In 1871, he designed the first refractometer, which he described in a booklet published in 1874. He developed the laws of image of non-luminous objects by 1872. Zeiss Optical Works began selling his improved microscopes in 1872, by 1877 they were selling microscopes with homogenous immersion objective, and in 1886 his apochromatic objective microscopes were being sold. He created the Abbe number, a measure of any transparent material's variation of refractive index with wavelength and Abbe's criterion, which tests the hypothesis, that a systematic trend exists in a set of observations (in terms of resolving power this criterion stipulates that an angular separation cannot be less than the ratio of the wavelength to the aperture diameter, see angular resolution). Already a professor in Jena, he was hired by Carl Zeiss to improve the manufacturing process of optical instruments, which back then was largely based on trial and error.\n\nAbbe was the first to define the term numerical aperture, as the sine of the half angle multiplied by the refractive index of the medium filling the space between the cover glass and front lens.\n\nAbbe is credited by many for discovering the resolution limit of the microscope, and the formula (published in 1873)\n\nalthough in a publication in 1874 by Helmholtz (another early appearance of this formula), Helmholtz states this formula was first derived by Joseph Louis Lagrange, who had died 61 years prior. Helmholtz was so impressed as to offer a professorship at the University of Berlin, which he refused due to his ties to Zeiss. Abbe was in the camp of the wide aperturists, arguing that microscopic resolution is ultimately limited by the aperture of the optics, but also argued that depending on application there are other parameters that should be weighted over the aperture in the design of objectives. In Abbe's 1874 paper, titled \"A Contribution to the Theory of the Microscope and the nature of Microscopic Vision\", Abbe states that the resolution of a microscope is inversely dependent on its aperture, but without proposing a formula for the resolution limit of a microscope.\n\nIn 1876, Abbe was offered a partnership by Zeiss and began to share in the considerable profits. Although the first theoretical derivations of were published by others, it is fair to say that Abbe was the first to reach this conclusion experimentally. In 1878, he built the first homogenous immersion system for the microscope. The objectives that the Abbe Zeiss collaboration were producing were of ideal ray geometry, allowing Abbe to find that the aperture sets the upper limit of microscopic resolution, not the curvature and placement of the lenses. Abbe's first publication of occurred in 1882. In this publication, Abbe states that both his theoretical and experimental investigations confirmed . Abbe's contemporary Henry Edward Fripp, English translator of Abbe's and Helmholtz's papers, puts their contributions on equal footing. He also perfected the interference method by Fizeau, in 1884. Abbe, Zeiss, Zeiss' son, Roderich Zeiss, and Otto Schott formed, in 1884, Jenaer Glaswerk Schott & Genossen. This company, which in time would in essence merge with Zeiss Optical Works, was responsible for research and production of 44 initial types of optical glass. Working with telescopes, he built image reversal system in 1895.\n\nIn order to produce high quality objectives, Abbe made significant contributions to the diagnosis and correction of optical aberrations, both spherical aberration and coma aberration, which is required for an objective to reach the resolution limit of . In addition to spherical aberration, Abbe discovered that the rays in optical systems must have constant angular magnification over their angular distribution to produce a diffraction limited spot, a principle known as the Abbe sine condition. So monumental and advanced were Abbe's calculations and achievements that Frits Zernike based his phase contrast work on them, for which he was awarded the Nobel Prize in 1953, and Hans Busch used them to work on the development of the electron microscope.\n\nDuring his association with Carl Zeiss' microscope works, not only was he at the forefront of the field of optics but also labor reform as he also, in 1900, introduced the eight-hour workday, in remembrance of the 14-hour workday of his own father. In addition, he created a pension fund and a discharge compensation fund. In 1889, Ernst Abbe set up and endowed the Carl Zeiss Foundation for research in science. The aim of the foundation was \"to secure the economic, scientific, and technological future and in this way to improve the job security of their employees.\" He made it a point that the success of an employee was based solely on their ability and performance, not on their origin, religion, or political views. In 1896, he reorganized the Zeiss optical works into a cooperative with profit-sharing. His social views were so respected as to be used by the Prussian state as a model and idealized by Alfred Weber in the 1947 book \"Schriften der Heidelberger Aktionsgruppe zur Demokratie und Zum Freien Sozialismus\".\n\nThe crater Abbe on the Moon was named in his honour.\n\nAbbe was a pioneer in optics, lens design, and microscopy, and an authority of his time. He left us with numerous publications of his findings, inventions, and discoveries. Below is a list of publications he authored including many links to the scanned Google Books pages.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3311755", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3311755", "title": "European Institute for Gender Equality", "text": "European Institute for Gender Equality\n\nThe European Institute for Gender Equality is a Vilnius-based agency of the European Union inaugurated in 2007. It was established by Council Regulation (EC) No 1922/2006 of 20 December 2006. Recruitment of its Director was advertised in April 2007.\n\nFunded by the Commission, with a proposed budget of €52.5 million for the period 2007 to 2013, this new European Institute will support the EU institutions and the Member States in promoting equality between women and men and combating sex discrimination. The Institute will gather, analyse and disseminate reliable and comparable research data and information needed by policy-makers. It will have a documentation centre and a library which will be open to the public.\n\nThe Management Board of the institute consists of eighteen representatives of the EU Member States appointed by the Council and of one member representing the European Commission. An Experts' forum as further body of the institute consists of delegates designated by the Member States (28), the European Parliament (2) and the Commission (3), the latter including representatives from non-governmental, employers' and workers' organisations at EU level.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "48528607", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48528607", "title": "Gjurmime albanologjike", "text": "Gjurmime albanologjike\n\nGjurmime albanologjike (Albanological reconnaissance) is a scientific magazine published by the Albanological Institute of Pristina, in Kosovo. The first issue came out in 1962 and since then has been a major contributor to all albanology fields study. The contributors come from Kosovo, Albania, other Albanian populated areas in the Balkans as well as Arbereshe.\n\nSince 1970 it is split is three series: History Sciences, Philological Sciences, and Folklore and Ethnology.\n\nThe magazine started as a scientific bulletin of the Albanology Cathedre, part of the Faculty of Philosophy of the University of Prishtina. Its editor-in-chief was Idriz Ajeti.\n\nInitially, it was structured as a yearly collection of articles and studies. One volume was published in 1962, followed by 1965, and 1966. The Albanological Institute of Pristina was reconstructed in 1967, and took over the magazine starting from 1968. At the time, \"Gjurmime Albanologjike\" came out as a semi-annual. In 1971, with the establishment of additional branches and disciplines inside the institute, the magazine split in three series: the History Sciences series with Ali Hadri as editor, the Philological Science series led by Idriz Ajeti, and the Folklore and Ethnology series led by Anton Çeta. The series continued to be published as yearly volumes.\n\nBefore its split in series, the magazine focused on researches on Albanian philology and general history. After that, it covered broader thematic covering all periods from antiquity till today, plus contemporary history specific topics, as well as a bibliography of possible references for further studies and researches.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "47742638", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47742638", "title": "Golden Week (Ohio)", "text": "Golden Week (Ohio)\n\nGolden Week is the colloquial term for a unique period of early voting time during Ohio's election season in which citizens can register to vote and cast an absentee ballot on the same day.\n\nGolden Week was created in 2005 with new early voting legislation that allowed voters to cast absentee ballots up to 35 days before the election. The legislation was passed in response to vast complications and inefficiencies experienced during the 2004 presidential election. On top of the technical issues with vote counts and voting machines, there were many logistical issues that discouraged turnout and voter participation. Precincts were ill-equipped to handle the number of voters coming out, and in some cases waiting lines were reported to be as high as nine hours long. This expansion of voting time resulted in about a week of overlap with the deadline of voter registration, which was October 6.\n\nAs with any period of early voting, citizens used Golden Week (and the rest of the period that did not overlap with registration deadlines) as an opportunity to cast their ballots at a time more convenient for them than Election Day itself. The added ability to vote on the same day of registration created an ideal opportunity for those who could not afford to take too much time out of their work schedules, or other obligations. While people from all walks of life have reasons to take advantage of early voting, the practice is more often associated with minorities and low-income citizens. The number of people who took advantage of these opportunities proved to be considerable. During the 2012 general election, approximately 90,000 people cast votes during Golden Week, which translated to about 14% of the total early, in-person absentee ballots cast that year.\n\nThere were several instances of organized intent to take advantage of the opportunities provided by Golden Week, as well. Many predominantly African-American churches coordinated \"Souls to the Polls\" campaigns designed to encourage their communities to get registered and exercise their voting rights.\n\nGolden Week and early voting opportunities in general haven been the subject of much debate among policymakers. Some see early voting as a safeguard against the disenfranchisement of minority and lower-income citizens who are believed to use such services more often. According to some studies, there is truth to this. Data from the Pew Research Center states that youth, minorities and the poor are much more likely to be nonvoters Corroborated with research from Caltech and MIT, it becomes clearer why this might be the case. Their study found that a multitude of reasons for not voting are more often used by minorities and youth than whites and older citizens. These reasons include illness, being too busy, or not having the proper transportation. It is factors such as those that lead many to believe that having ample early voting opportunities is particularly beneficial to those demographics. In addition to that, some believe that early voting opportunities help offset logistical issues during election day, and promote a larger overall voter turnout. Others see offering voting opportunities to the extent that Ohio has as a waste of resources and as a detriment to informed decision-making. To some, voting too early before an election represents making too hasty a decision, as important information can surface any time that has potential to shift opinions. Others believe that tighter voting procedures help minimize fraud. As such, Ohio's voting policies have been an ever-present topic in the state's political arena.\n\nThis debate came to a head in 2014 when the Ohio House passed Senate Bill 238, which eliminated Golden Week. This action was followed by a directive from Secretary of State John Husted, which set statewide early voting hours to be used in forthcoming elections. Husted's opponents criticized the directive for its lack of evening hours, as well as for not providing hours on Sundays or on the Monday prior to Election Day. The discontent with these measures eventually prompted the American Civil Liberties Union to file a lawsuit that came to be known as NAACP v. Husted, as the complaint was filed on behalf of several civil rights groups including the Ohio Conference of the National Association for the Advancement of Colored People and the League of Women Voters of Ohio. The case was contested until it made its way to the US Supreme Court, which did not fully consider the case but still stayed the decision of the lower courts to uphold Husted's legislation. Due to persistent action by the ACLU, however, a new compromise was reached in April 2015, in which Husted agreed to restore some weekend and evening voting hours. Golden Week remained eliminated.\n\nThere has been discontent since the elimination of Golden Week from invested groups such as the ACLU, but until recently there has not been much action in the form of concentrated effort to reinstate the lost voting time. As of November 2015, attorneys have filed a new lawsuit representing Ohio democrats aimed at getting the judiciary to reexamine the state's voting policies regarding early ballot opportunities as well as rules on provisional ballots.\n"}
{"id": "145255", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=145255", "title": "György Ligeti", "text": "György Ligeti\n\nGyörgy Sándor Ligeti (; , ; 28 May 1923 – 12 June 2006) was a Hungarian-Austrian composer of contemporary classical music. He has been described as \"one of the most important avant-garde composers in the latter half of the twentieth century\" and \"one of the most innovative and influential among progressive figures of his time\".\n\nBorn in Transylvania, Romania, he lived in Communist Hungary before emigrating to Austria in 1956. He became an Austrian citizen in 1968. In 1973 he became professor of composition at the Hamburg Hochschule für Musik und Theater, where he worked until retiring in 1989. He died in Vienna in 2006.\n\nRestricted in his musical style by the authorities of Communist Hungary, only when he reached the west in 1956 could Ligeti fully realise his passion for avant-garde music and develop new compositional techniques. After experimenting with electronic music in Cologne, his breakthrough came with orchestral works such as \"Atmosphères\", for which he used a technique he later dubbed micropolyphony. After writing his \"anti-anti-opera\" \"Le Grand Macabre\", Ligeti shifted away from chromaticism and towards polyrhythm for his later works.\n\nHe is best known by the public through the use of his music in film soundtracks. Although he did not directly compose any film scores, excerpts of pieces composed by him were taken and adapted for film use. The sound design of Stanley Kubrick's films, particularly the music of \"\", drew from Ligeti's work and also contained pieces by other classical composers.\n\nLigeti was born in 1923 at Dicsőszentmárton (which was renamed Târnăveni in 1941), in the Romanian region of Transylvania, to Dr. Sándor Ligeti and Dr. Ilona Somogyi. His family was Hungarian Jewish. He was the grandnephew of the violinist Leopold Auer and cousin of Hungarian philosopher Ágnes Heller.\n\nLigeti recalled that his first exposure to languages other than Hungarian came one day while listening to a conversation among the Romanian-speaking town police. Before that he had not known that other languages existed. He moved to Cluj with his family when he was six years old. He did not return to the town of his birth until the 1990s. In 1940, Northern Transylvania was annexed by Hungary following the Second Vienna Award, and Cluj became part of Hungary.\n\nIn 1941 Ligeti received his initial musical training at the conservatory in Cluj, and during the summers privately with Pál Kadosa in Budapest. In 1944, Ligeti's education was interrupted when he was sent to a forced labor brigade by the Horthy regime during events of the Holocaust. His brother, age 16, was deported to the Mauthausen-Gusen concentration camp and both of his parents were sent to Auschwitz. His mother was the only other person to survive in his immediate family.\n\nFollowing World War II, Ligeti returned to his studies in Budapest, graduating in 1949 from the Franz Liszt Academy of Music. He studied under Pál Kadosa, Ferenc Farkas, Zoltán Kodály and Sándor Veress. He conducted ethnomusicological research into the Hungarian folk music of Transylvania. However, after a year he returned to Franz Liszt Academy in Budapest, this time as a teacher of harmony, counterpoint and musical analysis. He had secured this position with the help of Kodály, and held it from 1950 to 1956. As a young teacher, Ligeti took the unusual step of regularly attending the lectures of an older colleague, the conductor and musicologist Lajos Bárdos. He was a conservative Christian whose circle represented a safe haven for Ligeti. The composer acknowledged Bardos's help and advice in the prefaces to his two harmony textbooks (1954 and 1956). Due to the restrictions of the communist government, communications between Hungary and the West by then had become difficult, and Ligeti and other artists were effectively cut off from recent developments outside the Eastern Bloc.\n\nIn December 1956, two months after the Hungarian revolution was violently suppressed by the Soviet Army, Ligeti fled to Vienna with his ex-wife Vera Spitz. (They remarried in 1957 and had a son together.) He would not see Hungary again for fourteen years, when he was invited there to judge a competition in Budapest. On his rushed escape to Vienna, he left most of his Hungarian compositions in Budapest, some of which are now lost. He took only what he considered to be his most important pieces. He later said, \"I considered my old music of no interest. I believed in twelve-tone music!\" He eventually took Austrian citizenship in 1968.\nA few weeks after arriving in Vienna, Ligeti left for Cologne. There he met several key avant-garde figures and learned more contemporary musical styles and methods. These people included the composers Karlheinz Stockhausen and Gottfried Michael Koenig, both then working on groundbreaking electronic music. During the summer, he attended the Internationale Ferienkurse für Neue Musik in Darmstadt. Ligeti worked in the Cologne Electronic Music Studio with Stockhausen and Koenig and was inspired by the sounds he heard there. However, he produced little electronic music of his own, instead concentrating on instrumental works which often contain electronic-sounding textures.\n\nAfter about three years' working with them, he fell out with the Cologne School, this being too dogmatic and involving much factional in-fighting: \"there were a lot of political fighting because different people, like Stockhausen, like Kagel wanted to be first. And I, personally, have no ambition to be first or to be important.\"\n\nBetween 1961 and 1971 he was guest professor for composition in Stockholm. In 1972 he became composer-in-residence at Stanford University in the United States.\n\nIn 1973 Ligeti became professor of composition at the Hamburg Hochschule für Musik und Theater, eventually retiring in 1989. While he was living in Hamburg, his wife Vera remained in Vienna with their son, Lukas, who later also became a composer.\n\nInvited by Walter Fink, Ligeti was the first composer featured in the annual Komponistenporträt of the Rheingau Musik Festival in 1990.\n\nApart from his far-reaching interest in different styles of music, from Renaissance to African music, Ligeti was also interested in literature (including the writers Lewis Carroll, Jorge Luis Borges, and Franz Kafka), painting, architecture, science, and mathematics. He was especially fascinated by the fractal geometry of Benoit Mandelbrot and the writings of Douglas Hofstadter.\n\nLigeti's health deteriorated after the turn of the millennium; he died in Vienna on 12 June 2006 at the age of 83. Although it was known that he had been ill for several years and had used a wheelchair for the last three years of his life, his family declined to release details of his cause of death.\n\nAustrian Chancellor Wolfgang Schüssel and Art Secretary both paid tribute to Ligeti. His funeral was held at the Vienna Crematorium at the Vienna Central Cemetery, with the Republic of Austria and the Republic of Hungary represented by their respective cultural affairs ministers. The ashes were buried at the cemetery in a grave dedicated to him by the City of Vienna.\n\nHe was survived by his wife Vera and son Lukas. The latter is a composer and percussionist based in the United States.\n\nMany of Ligeti's earliest works were written for chorus and included settings of folk songs. His largest work in this period was a graduation composition for the Budapest Academy, entitled \"Cantata for Youth Festival\", for four vocal soloists, chorus and orchestra. One of his earliest pieces now in the repertoire is his \"Cello Sonata\", a work in two contrasting movements that were written in 1948 and 1953, respectively. It was initially banned by the Soviet-run Composer's Union and was not performed publicly for a quarter of a century.\n\nLigeti's earliest works are often an extension of the musical language of Béla Bartók. Even his piano cycle \"Musica ricercata\" (1953), though written according to Ligeti with a \"Cartesian\" approach, in which he \"regarded all the music I knew and loved as being... irrelevant\", the piece has been described by one biographer as from a world very close to Bartók's set of piano works, \"Mikrokosmos\". Ligeti's set comprises eleven pieces in all. The work is based on a simple restriction: the first piece uses exclusively one pitch A, heard in multiple octaves, and only at the very end of the piece is a second note, D, heard. The second piece uses three notes (E, F, and G), the third piece uses four, and so on, so that in the final piece all twelve notes of the chromatic scale are present.\n\nShortly after its composition, Ligeti arranged six of the movements of \"Musica ricercata\" for wind quintet under the title 'Six Bagatelles for Wind Quintet'. The Bagatelles were performed first in 1956, but not in their entirety: the last movement was censored by the Soviets for being too 'dangerous'.\n\nBecause of Soviet censorship, his most daring works from this period, including \"Musica ricercata\" and his String Quartet No. 1 \"Métamorphoses nocturnes\" (1953–1954), were written for the 'bottom drawer'. Composed of a single movement divided into seventeen contrasting sections linked motivically, the First String Quartet is Ligeti's first work to suggest a personal style of composition. The string quartet was not performed until 1958, after he had fled Hungary for Vienna.\n\nUpon arriving in Cologne, Ligeti began to write electronic music alongside Karlheinz Stockhausen and Gottfried Michael Koenig at the electronic studio of West German Radio (WDR). He completed only two works in this medium, however—the pieces \"Glissandi\" (1957) and \"Artikulation\" (1958)—before returning to instrumental music. A third work, originally entitled \"Atmosphères\" but later known as \"Pièce électronique Nr. 3\", was planned, but the technical limitations of the time prevented Ligeti from realizing it completely. It was finally realised in 1996 by the Dutch composers Kees Tazelaar and Johan van Kreij of the Institute of Sonology.\n\nLigeti's music appears to have been subsequently influenced by his electronic experiments, and many of the sounds he created resembled electronic textures. Ligeti coined the term \"micropolyphony\" to describe the texture of the second movement of \"Apparitions\" (1958–59) and \"Atmosphères\" (1961). This texture is a similar to that of polyphony, except that the polyphony is obscured in a dense and rich stack of pitches. Micropolyphony can be used to create the nearly static but slowly evolving works such as \"Atmosphères\" in which the individual instruments become hidden in a complex web of sound. According to Ligeti, after \"Apparitions\" and \"Atmosphères\", he \"became famous\".\n\nWith \"Volumina\" (1961–62, revised 1966) for solo organ, Ligeti continued with clusters of notes, translated into blocks of sound. In this piece, Ligeti abandoned conventional music notation, instead using diagrams to represent general pitch areas, duration, and flurries of notes.\n\n\"Aventures\" (1962), like its companion piece \"Nouvelles Aventures\" (1962–65), is a composition for three singers and instrumental septet, to a text (of Ligeti's own devising) that is without semantic meaning. In these pieces, each singer has five roles to play, exploring five areas of emotion, and they switch from one to the other so quickly and abruptly that all five areas are present throughout the piece.\n\n\"Requiem\" (1963–65) is a work for soprano and mezzo-soprano soloists, twenty-part chorus (four each of soprano, mezzo-soprano, alto, tenor, and bass), and orchestra. Though, at about half an hour, it is the longest piece he had composed up to that point, Ligeti sets only about half of the Requiem's traditional text: the \"Introitus\", the \"Kyrie\" (a completely chromatic quasi-fugue, where the parts are a montage of melismatic, skipping micropolyphony), and the \"Dies irae\"—dividing the latter sequence into two parts, \"De die judicii\" and \"Lacrimosa\".\n\n\"Lux Aeterna\" (1966) is a 16-voice \"a cappella\" piece whose text is also associated with the Latin Requiem.\n\nLigeti's Cello Concerto (1966), which is dedicated to Siegfried Palm, is composed of two movements: the first begins with an almost imperceptible cello which slowly shifts into static tone clusters with the orchestra before reaching a crescendo and slowly decaying, while the second is a virtuoso piece of dynamic atonal melody on the part of the cello.\n\n\"Lontano\" (1967), for full orchestra, is another example of micropolyphony, but the overall effect is closer to harmony, with complex woven textures and opacity of the sound giving rise to a harmonious effect. It has become a standard repertoire piece.\n\nString Quartet No. 2 (1968) consists of five movements. They differ widely from each other in their types of motion. In the first, the structure is largely broken up, as in \"Aventures\". In the second, everything is reduced to very slow motion, and the music seems to be coming from a distance, with great lyricism. The \"pizzicato\" third movement is a machine-like studies, hard and mechanical, whereby the parts playing repeated notes create a \"granulated\" continuum. In the fourth, which is fast and threatening, everything that happened before is crammed together. Lastly, in strong contrast, the fifth movement spreads itself out. In each movement, the same basic configurations return, but each time their colouring or viewpoint is different, so that the overall form only really emerges when one listens to all five movements in context.\n\n\"Ramifications\" (1968–69), completed a year before the Chamber Concerto, is scored for an ensemble of strings in twelve parts—seven violins, two violas, two cellos and a double bass—each of which may be taken by one player or several. The twelve are divided into two numerically equal groups but with the instruments in the first group tuned approximately a quarter-tone higher (four violins, a viola and a cello). As the group play, the one tuned higher inevitably tends to slide down toward the other, and both get nearer each other in pitch.\n\nIn the \"Chamber Concerto\" (1969–70), several layers, processes and kinds of movement can take place on different planes simultaneously. In spite of frequent markings of \"senza tempo\", the instrumentalists are not given linear freedom; Ligeti insists on keeping his texture under strict control at any given moment. The form is like a \"precision mechanism\". Ligeti was always fascinated by machines that do not work properly and by the world of technology and automation. The use of periodic mechanical noises, suggesting not-quite-reliable machinery, occurs in many of his works. The scoring is for flute (doubling piccolo), oboe (doubling oboe d'amore and cor anglais), clarinet, bass clarinet (doubling second clarinet), horn, trombone, harpsichord (doubling Hammond organ), piano (doubling celesta), and solo string quintet.\n\nMost of these compositions establish timbre, rather than the traditionally-favored dimensions of pitch and rhythm, as their principal formal parameter, a practice that has come to be known as sonorism.\n\nFrom the 1970s, Ligeti turned away from sonorism and began to concentrate on rhythm. Pieces such as \"Continuum\" (1968) and \"Clocks and Clouds\" (1972–73) were written before he heard the music of Steve Reich and Terry Riley in 1972. But the second of his \"Three Pieces for Two Pianos\" (1976), entitled \"Self-portrait with Reich and Riley (and Chopin in the background)\", commemorates this affirmation and influence. During the 1970s, he also became interested in the polyphonic pipe music of the Banda-Linda tribe from the Central African Republic, which he heard through the recordings of one of his students.\n\nIn 1977, Ligeti completed his only opera, \"Le Grand Macabre\", thirteen years after its initial commission. Loosely based on Michel de Ghelderode's 1934 play, \"La balade du grand macabre\", it is a work of Absurd theatre—Ligeti called it an \"anti-anti-opera\"—in which Death (Nekrotzar) arrives in the fictional city of Breughelland and announces that the end of the world will occur at midnight. Musically, \"Le Grand Macabre\" draws on techniques not associated with Ligeti's previous work, including quotations and pseudo-quotations of other works and the use of consonant thirds and sixths.\n\nAfter \"Le Grand Macabre\", Ligeti would abandon the use of pastiche, but would increasingly incorporate consonant harmonies (even major and minor triads) into his work, albeit not in a diatonic context.\n\nAfter \"Le Grand Macabre\", Ligeti struggled for some time to find a new style. Besides two short pieces for harpsichord, he did not complete another major work until the Trio for Violin, Horn and Piano in 1982, over four years after the opera. His music of the 1980s and 1990s continued to emphasise complex mechanical rhythms, often in a less densely chromatic idiom, tending to favour displaced major and minor triads and polymodal structures. During this time, Ligeti also began to explore alternate tuning systems through the use of natural harmonics for horns (as in the Horn Trio and Piano Concerto) and scordatura for strings (as in the Violin Concerto). Additionally, most of his works in this period are multi-movement works, rather than the extended single movements of \"Atmosphères\" and \"San Francisco Polyphony\".\n\nFrom 1985 to 2001, Ligeti completed three books of Études for piano (Book I, 1985; Book II, 1988–94; Book III, 1995–2001). Comprising eighteen compositions in all, the Études draw from a diverse range of sources, including gamelan, African polyrhythms, Béla Bartók, Conlon Nancarrow, Thelonious Monk, and Bill Evans. Book I was written as preparation for the Piano Concerto, which contains a number of similar motivic and melodic elements. Ligeti’s music from the last two decades of his life is unmistakable for its rhythmic complexity. Writing about his first book of Piano Études, the composer claims this rhythmic complexity stems from two vastly different sources of inspiration: the Romantic-era piano music of Chopin and Schumann and the indigenous music of sub-Saharan Africa.\n\nThe difference between the earlier and later pieces lies in a new conception of pulse. In the earlier works, the pulse is something to be divided into two, three and so on. The effect of these different subdivisions, especially when they occur simultaneously, is to blur the aural landscape, creating the micropolyphonic effect of Ligeti’s music.\n\nOn the other hand, the later music—and a few earlier pieces such as \"Continuum\"—treats the pulse as a musical atom, a common denominator, a basic unit, which cannot be divided further. Different rhythms appear through multiplications of the basic pulse, rather than divisions: this is the principle of African music seized on by Ligeti. It also appears in the music of Philip Glass, Steve Reich and others; and significantly it shares much in common with the additive rhythms of Balkan folk music, the music of Ligeti’s youth. He described the music of Conlon Nancarrow, with its extremely complex explorations of polyrhythmic complexity, as \"the greatest discovery since Webern and Ives... something great and important for all music history! His music is so utterly original, enjoyable, perfectly constructed, but at the same time emotional... for me it's the best music of any composer living today.\"\n\nIn 1988, Ligeti completed his Piano Concerto, writing that \"I present my artistic credo in the \"Piano Concerto\": I demonstrate my independence from criteria of the traditional avantgarde, as well as the fashionable postmodernism.\" Initial sketches of the Concerto began in 1980, but it was not until 1985 that he found a way forward and the work proceeded more quickly. The Concerto explores many of the ideas worked out in the Études but in an orchestral context.\nIn 1993, Ligeti completed his Violin Concerto after four years of work. Like the Piano Concerto, the Violin Concerto uses the wide range of techniques he had developed up until that point as well as the new ideas he was working out at the moment. Among other techniques, it uses a passacaglia, \"microtonality, rapidly changing textures, comic juxtapositions... Hungarian folk melodies, Bulgarian dance rhythms, references to Medieval and Renaissance music and solo violin writing that ranges from the slow-paced and sweet-toned to the angular and fiery.\"\n\nOther notable works from this period are the Viola Sonata (1994) and the \"Nonsense Madrigals\" (1988–93), a set of six a cappella compositions that set English texts from William Brighty Rands, Lewis Carroll, and Heinrich Hoffman. The third Madrigal is a setting of the English alphabet.\n\nLigeti's last works were the \"Hamburg Concerto\" for solo horn, four natural horns and chamber orchestra (1998–99, revised 2003, dedicated to Marie Luise Neunecker), the song cycle \"Síppal, dobbal, nádihegedüvel\" (\"With Pipes, Drums, Fiddles\", 2000), and the eighteenth piano étude \"Canon\" (2001). Additionally, after \"Le Grand Macabre\", Ligeti planned to write a second opera, first to be based on Shakespeare's \"The Tempest\" and later on Carroll's \"Alice's Adventures in Wonderland\", but neither came to fruition.\n\nLigeti has been described as \"together with Boulez, Berio, Stockhausen, and Cage as one of the most innovative and influential among progressive figures of his time\". From about 1960, Ligeti's work became better known and respected. His best-known work was written during the period from \"Apparitions\" to \"Lontano\", which includes \"Atmosphères\", \"Volumina\", \"Aventures\" and \"Nouvelles Aventures\", \"Requiem\", \"Lux Aeterna\", and his Cello Concerto; as well as his opera \"Le Grand Macabre\". In recent years, his three books of piano études have also become well known and are the subject of the \"Inside the Score\" project of pianist Pierre-Laurent Aimard.\n\nLigeti's music is best known to the general public for its use in three films of Stanley Kubrick's, which gained him a world-wide audience. The to \"\" includes excerpts from four of his pieces: \"Atmosphères\", \"\"Lux Aeterna\"\", \"Requiem\" and \"Aventures\". \"Atmosphères\" is heard during the \"Star Gate\" sequence, with portions also heard in the Overture and Intermission. \"Lux Aeterna\" is heard in the moon-bus scene en route to the Tycho monolith. The \"Kyrie\" sequence of his \"Requiem\" is heard over the first three monolith encounters. An electronically altered version of \"Aventures\", unlisted in the film credits, is heard in the cryptic final scenes. The music was used, and in some cases modified, without Ligeti's knowledge, and without full copyright clearance. When he learned about the use of his music in the film, he \"successfully sued for having had his music distorted\", but settled out of court. Kubrick in return sought permission and compensated Ligeti for use of his music in later films.\n\n\"Lux Aeterna\" was used again in Peter Hyams's 1984 sequel to \"2001\", \"2010\".\n\nA later Kubrick film, \"The Shining\", uses small portions of \"Lontano\" for orchestra.\n\nOne motif from the second movement of Ligeti's \"Musica ricercata\" is used at pivotal moments in Kubrick's \"Eyes Wide Shut\". At the German premiere of that film, by which time Kubrick had died, his widow was escorted by Ligeti himself.\n\nLigeti is also known to the public through the use of his music in other films by other directors. \"Lontano\" was also used in Martin Scorsese's 2010 psychological thriller film \"Shutter Island\". The first movement of the Cello Concerto was used in the Michael Mann 1995 crime film \"Heat\". The \"Requiem\" was used in the 2014 film \"Godzilla\". The Cello Concerto and the Piano Concerto were used in Yorgos Lanthimos' 2017 film \"The Killing of a Sacred Deer\".\n\nHis music has also been used in television and radio. \"Lontano\", \"Atmosphères\", and the first movement of the Cello Concerto were used in Sophie Fiennes's documentary \"Over Your Cities Grass Will Grow\", about the German post-war artist Anselm Kiefer. \"Lontano\", \"Melodien\", and \"Volumina\" were used in Fit the First, Fit the Fifth, and of \"The Hitchhiker's Guide to the Galaxy\" as background music to sections of narrative from the Guide.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "26354249", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26354249", "title": "Index of philosophy of language articles", "text": "Index of philosophy of language articles\n\nThis is an index of articles in philosophy of language\n"}
{"id": "36184844", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36184844", "title": "Institut Européen d'archéologie Sous-Marine", "text": "Institut Européen d'archéologie Sous-Marine\n\nThe Institut Européen d’archéologie Sous-Marine (IEASM)(English: European Institute for Underwater Archaeology) was founded in 1987 as a French non-profit organisation by President Franck Goddio. The organisation locates, explores, excavates and restores sunken sites. IEASM calls upon scientists and specialists of different scientific field to support its research missions, study and publish the findings. The organisation features exhibitions allowing the general public to get access to its discoveries.\n\n"}
{"id": "23768134", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23768134", "title": "Inter-American literature", "text": "Inter-American literature\n\nInter-American Literature involves the comparative study of authors and texts from all the Americas: North, South and Central, including the Caribbean. This all-inclusive scope—Canada, the United States, Spanish America, Brazil, smaller Anglophone and Francophone countries, and Native America—covers the principal languages of the extreme Western Hemisphere—English, Spanish, Portuguese, French—as well as, in some cases, indigenous languages.\n\nThe method can have a broad focus, as in studies of race relations in the Americas or the literary representation of the Native American, or it can focus more narrowly on issues of influence and reception that link specific authors and texts. For example, certain novels by Brazil’s Machado de Assis influenced John Barth’s \"The Floating Opera\", and Faulkner influenced a number of writers from Spanish America, including Gabriel García Márquez and Mario Vargas Llosa.\n\nInter-American Literature can also deal with the development of certain literary forms, such as the immigrant novel or the New-World epic poem, or with literary periods and movements, such as the colonial period, the nineteenth-century, or Modernism in the Americas.\n\nIdeally, every Inter-American Literature project should involve at least two of the New World’s languages and literatures, as, for instance, in a study of the “New Novel” form in Canada, the United States, Peru, and Brazil during the 1960s.\n\nAs in comparative studies generally, inter-American literary scholarship should work, as often as possible, with texts written in their original languages and should seek to identify those similarities (of theme, form, or period) that tie the literatures of the Americas together while also recognizing and maintaining the very important differences (of history, style, and culture) that distinguish them and that make them separate works of art.\n\nAt present, Inter-American Literature is mostly dominated by U.S. scholars. The fact that the U.S. has become the prime locus of production of Inter-American studies poses several problems, the most important of which is that the field betrays its own raison-d'etre. The field cannot be truly inter-American when most American countries are relegated to the position of object of study.\n\nEarl E. Fitz.\" Rediscovering the New World: Inter-American Literature in a Comparative Context\". Iowa U P, 1991.\n\nElizabeth Lowe and Earl E. Fitz. \"Translation and the Rise of Inter-American Literature\", U P of Florida, 2008.\n\nEarl E. Fitz. \"Inter-American Literature: A Concise History\". The Scholar Collection, 2012. (473 pp.) www.academicpub.com\n\nNina Scott. \"Inter-American Literature: An Antidote to the Arrogance of Culture\". College English. 2004.\n\nMonika Kaup, Debra J. Rosenthal, eds. \"Mixing race, mixing culture\". U Texas P, 2002.\n\nEarl E. Fitz. \"Spanish American and Brazilian Literature in Inter-American Perspective: The Comparative Approach\". CLCWeb: Comparative Literature and Culture 4.2 (2002).\n"}
{"id": "197228", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=197228", "title": "Jeff VanderMeer", "text": "Jeff VanderMeer\n\nJeff VanderMeer is an American author, editor, and literary critic. Initially associated with the New Weird literary genre, VanderMeer crossed over into mainstream success with his bestselling Southern Reach Trilogy. The trilogy's first novel, \"Annihilation\", won the Nebula and Shirley Jackson Awards, and was adapted into a Hollywood film by director Alex Garland. Among VanderMeer's other novels are \"\" and \"Borne\". He has also edited with his wife Ann VanderMeer such influential and award-winning anthologies as \"The New Weird\", \"The Weird\", and \"The Big Book of Science Fiction\".\n\nVanderMeer has been called \"one of the most remarkable practitioners of the literary fantastic in America today,\" with \"The New Yorker\" naming him the \"King of Weird Fiction.\" VanderMeer's fiction is noted for eluding genre classifications even as his works bring in themes and elements from genres such as postmodernism, ecofiction, the New Weird and post-apocalyptic fiction.\n\nVanderMeer's writing has been described as \"evocative\" and containing \"intellectual observations both profound and disturbing,\" and has been compared with the works of Jorge Luis Borges, Franz Kafka, and Henry David Thoreau.\n\nVanderMeer was born in Bellefonte, Pennsylvania in 1968, and spent much of his childhood in the Fiji Islands, where his parents worked for the Peace Corps. After returning to the United States, he spent time in Ithaca, New York, and Gainesville, Florida. He attended the University of Florida for three years and, in 1992, took part in the Clarion Writers Workshop.\n\nWhen VanderMeer was 20, he read Angela Carter's novel \"The Infernal Desire Machines of Doctor Hoffman\", which he has said \"blew the back of my head off, rewired my brain: I had never encountered prose like that before, never such passion and boldness on the page.\" Carter's fiction inspired VanderMeer to both improve and be fearless with his own writing.\n\nIn 2003, VanderMeer married Ann Kennedy, then editor for the small Buzzcity Press and magazine the \"Silver Web\". They have two cats. One is named Neo.\n\nVanderMeer began writing in the late 1980s while still in high school and quickly became a prolific contributor to small-press magazines. During this time VanderMeer wrote a number of horror and fantasy short stories, some of which were collected in his 1989 self-published book \"The Book of Frog\" and in the 1996 collection \"The Book of Lost Places\". He also wrote poetry—his poem \"Flight Is for Those Who Have Not Yet Crossed Over\" was a co-winner of the 1994 Rhysling Award—and edited two issues of the self-published zine \"Jabberwocky\".\n\nOne of VanderMeer's early successes was his 2001 short-story collection \"City of Saints and Madmen,\" set in the imaginary city of Ambergris. Several of VanderMeer's novels were subsequently set in the same place, including \"\" (2006) and \"Finch\" (2009), the latter of which was a finalist for the Nebula Award for Best Novel. In 2000, his novella \"The Transformation of Martin Lake\" won the World Fantasy Award.\n\nVanderMeer has also worked in other media, including on a movie based on his novel \"Shriek\" that featured an original soundtrack by rock band The Church. The band Murder By Death likewise recorded a soundtrack for \"Finch\", which was released alongside a limited edition of the book. VanderMeer also wrote a \"Predator\" tie-in novel for \"Dark Horse Comics\" called \"Predator: South China Seas\" and worked with animator Joel Veitch on a Play Station Europe animation of his story \"A New Face in Hell\".\n\nIn 2014, Farrar, Straus and Giroux published VanderMeer's Southern Reach Trilogy, consisting of the novels \"Annihilation, Authority,\" and \"Acceptance\". The story focuses on a secret agency that manages expeditions into a location known as Area X. The area is an uninhabited and abandoned part of the United States that nature has begun to reclaim after a mysterious world-changing event.\n\nVanderMeer has said that the main inspiration for Area X and the series was his hike through St. Marks National Wildlife Refuge. \"The Other Side of the Mountain\" by Michel Bernanos is among the books VanderMeer has cited as also having had an influence.\n\nThe trilogy was released in quick succession over an 8-month period, in what has been called an innovative \"Netflix-inspired strategy.\" The strategy helped the second and third books reach the \"New York Times\" Bestseller list, and established VanderMeer as \"one of the most forward-thinking authors of the decade.\"\n\nThe series ended up being highly honored, with \"Annihilation\" winning the Nebula and Shirley Jackson Awards for Best Novel. The entire trilogy was also named a finalist for the 2015 World Fantasy Award and the 2016 Kurd-Laßwitz-Preis. \"Annihilation\" was also adapted into a film of the same name by writer-director Alex Garland. The film stars Natalie Portman, Gina Rodriguez, Tessa Thompson, Jennifer Jason Leigh, and Oscar Isaac.\n\nIn 2017 VanderMeer released \"Borne,\" a \"biotech apocalypse\" novel about a scavenger named Rachel trying to survive both a city \"plunged into a primordial realm of myth, fable, and fairy tale\" and a five-story-tall flying bear named Mord. As with the Southern Reach trilogy, the novel was highly praised, with \"The Guardian\" saying, \"VanderMeer’s recent work has been Ovidian in its underpinnings, exploring the radical transformation of life forms and the seams between them.\" \"Publisher's Weekly\" said the novel reads \"like a dispatch from a world lodged somewhere between science fiction, myth, and a video game\" and that with \"Borne\" Vandermeer has essentially invented a new literary genre, \"weird literature.\"\n\nParamount Pictures has optioned the film rights to \"Borne\".\n\nIn August 2017 VanderMeer released the novella \"The Strange Bird: A Borne Story\". The stand-alone story is set in the same world as \"Borne\" but features different characters.\n\nVanderMeer's upcoming novels include \"Hummingbird Salamander\", which is set ten seconds into the future and deals with \"bioterrorism, ecoterrorism, and climate change,\" and a young adult series called \"Jonathan Lambshead and the Golden Sphere\". He's also working on a story called \"The Three,\" based on the dead astronauts mentioned in \"Borne\", along with another Southern Reach story.\n\nVanderMeer has been called \"one of the most remarkable practitioners of the literary fantastic in America today,\" with \"The New Yorker\" naming him the \"King of Weird Fiction.\" VanderMeer's fiction is noted for eluding genre classifications even as his works bring in themes and elements from genres such as postmodernism, ecofiction, the New Weird and post-apocalyptic fiction.\n\nVanderMeer's fiction has been described as \"evocative (with) intellectual observations both profound and disturbing\" and \"lyrical and harrowing,\" with his mixing of genres producing \"something unique and unsettling.\"\n\nVanderMeer's writing has been compared with the works of Jorge Luis Borges, Kafka, and Thoreau.\n\nVanderMeer is a frequent writer of critical literary reviews and essays, which have appeared in numerous publications including \"The Atlantic, The Washington Post\" Book World, \"Publishers Weekly\", and other places. For a number of years he was a regular columnist for the Amazon book-culture blog and has served as a judge for the Eisner Awards, among others. He has been a guest speaker at such diverse events as the Brisbane Writers Festival, Finncon in Helsinki, and the American Library Association annual conference.\n\nVanderMeer has also edited a number of anthologies. He won a 2003 World Fantasy Award for \"Leviathan, Volume Three\", a collection of genre-bending stories he edited with Forrest Aguirre. He and Mark Roberts were also finalists for the same award the next year for the anthology \"The Thackery T. Lambshead Pocket Guide to Eccentric & Discredited Diseases\".\n\nMost of his recent anthologies have been collaborations with his wife, Ann VanderMeer, the Hugo-award-winning former editor of \"Weird Tales\". These anthologies include \"The New Weird\", a collection of stories from New Weird authors; \"Last Drink Bird Head\", a charity anthology benefiting literacy; \"The Weird\", a World Fantasy Award winning collection of weird fiction; \"Time Traveler's Almanac\", an anthology of time-travel fiction; \"Fast Ships, Black Sails\", a pirate fiction anthology; and the Locus Award winning \"The Big Book of Science Fiction\".\n\nVanderMeer is the founding editor and publisher of the \"Ministry of Whimsy Press\", which he set up in the late 1980s while still in high school. The press is currently an imprint of Wyrm Publishing. One of the Ministry's publications, \"The Troika\" by Stepan Chapman, won the Philip K. Dick Award in 1997.\n\nIn addition to editing and writing, VanderMeer has also been involved in teaching creative writing. One of the projects he is involved with is Shared Worlds, an annual two-week program that aims to teach creative writing to teenagers. VanderMeer has also taught at the Clarion Workshop and at Trinity Prep School. In addition to his teaching, VanderMeer has also written guides to creative writing such as \"Wonderbook\", which won a BSFA Award, a Locus Award, and was nominated for a Hugo and World Fantasy Award.\n\nVanderMeer has been nominated for the World Fantasy Award 14 times. He has also won an NEA-funded Florida Individual Writers' Fellowship, and, the Le Cafard Cosmique award in France and the Tähtifantasia Award in Finland, both for \"City of Saints\". He has also been a finalist for the Hugo Award, Bram Stoker Award, International Horror Guild Award, Philip K. Dick Award, and many others. Novels such as \"Veniss Underground\" and \"\" have made the year's best lists of Amazon.com, \"The Austin Chronicle\", the \"San Francisco Chronicle\", and \"Publishers Weekly\", among others.\n\nOther Awards include:\n\n\n\n\n\nThe world is full of monsters\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "472592", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=472592", "title": "Jumanji (picture book)", "text": "Jumanji (picture book)\n\nJumanji is a 1981 fantasy children's picture book, written and illustrated by the American author Chris Van Allsburg. It was made into a 1995 film of the same name. Both the book and the film are about a magical board game that implements real animals and other jungle elements as the game is played; thus the dangers which the players have to overcome in the game also appear in real life. \"Jumanji\" star Robin Williams said \"jumanji\" is a Zulu word meaning \"many effects\", as did Van Allsburg. In 2011, Williams recorded an audiobook for its 30th edition.\n\nFritz, a bull terrier in all of Chris Van Allsburg's books, appears as a toy dog on wheels in the third illustration.\n\nWhile their parents are out for the evening, Judy and Peter Shepherd, after playing with some toys, become bored and decide to go to the park. There they find a jungle adventure game called \"Jumanji\". Taking the game home, they find a warning message; \"Do not begin unless you intend to finish\". Ignoring the warning, they start to play.\n\nThe pair soon discovers that any dangers encountered in the game spring to life somewhere in the house. For example, when Peter rolls on a lion, a real lion appears, which Judy and Peter trap in their mother's bedroom. Continuing on, Judy rolls on a stampede, Peter rolls on a monsoon, and Judy rolls on an explorer—each appears in real life to wreak havoc in the house. Still they continue to play, hoping that by finishing the game everything will go back to normal. The game finally ends when Judy rolls a volcano and yells \"Jumanji!\".\n\nIn an instant everything is back to normal and the siblings quickly return to the park and abandon the game before their parents return. The story ends when Judy and Peter look outside and see their neighbors, Danny and Walter, excitedly returning from the park with \"Jumanji\" in their hands with the knowledge that their mother claims the brothers never bother to finish the games they play nor read the instructions.\n\n\n\"Zathura\" (published in 2002) is a sequel to \"Jumanji\" also written by Van Allsburg. In \"Zathura\", Danny and Walter Budwing from the end of the \"Jumanji\" story, find a science fiction board game that similarly causes the effects of the game to come to life. It has also been in 2005.\n"}
{"id": "25166850", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25166850", "title": "Kapila Abhayawansa", "text": "Kapila Abhayawansa\n\nKapila Abhayawansa PhD, (Sri Lanka) is the Dean of the Faculty of Religious Studies, International Buddhist College, Thailand.\n\nPrior to joining the college, he was a professor and head of the Department of Buddhist Culture at the Postgraduate Institute of Pali and Buddhist Studies, University of Kelaniya, Sri Lanka. His areas of specialization are the history of Western and Eastern philosophy, Mahayana Buddhist philosophy, and Buddhist monastic discipline.\n"}
{"id": "58411713", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58411713", "title": "List of Amarna letters by size", "text": "List of Amarna letters by size\n\nThis is a List of Amarna letters by size, mostly length X width, and starting with the shortest (in Height). Note: a few Amarna letters are wider than tall, for example EA 290.\n\nIt should be understood the definition of \"mayor\" in the Amarna letters. (The definition of \"King\" is relatively obvious). Some mayors are called the \"Man Town XXX\". The obvious description is to call the mayor a governor, (the man who governs, no matter the size of the City-state; (\"governor\" means \"govern-or\"). The power of local governors depended on conflicts, or commercial local successes, or of course the discourses, including the everpresent Habiru, ('Apiru).\n\n\n"}
{"id": "57039295", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57039295", "title": "List of Indian shipbuilders and shipyards", "text": "List of Indian shipbuilders and shipyards\n\nThis is a list of notable shipbuilders and shipyards located in India:\n"}
{"id": "2806360", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2806360", "title": "List of fatwas", "text": "List of fatwas\n\nA fatwa (), is a legal pronouncement in Islam, issued by a religious law specialist on a specific issue. \n\nIn 2001, Egypt's Grand Mufti issued a fatwa stating that the show \"من سيربح المليون؟\" (\"Man sa yarbah al malyoon?\" – literally \"Who will Win the Million?\"), modelled on the British show Who Wants to be a Millionaire?, was un-Islamic. The Sheikh of Cairo's Al-Azhar University later rejected the fatwa, finding that there was no objection to such shows since they spread general knowledge.\n\n\nMany other fatwas have been made by Sunnis regarding the Shia.\n\nIt refers to the fatwa against the acquisition, development and use of nuclear weapons by supreme leader of Iran, Ali Khamenei. While the fatwa originally dates back to mid-1990s, the first public issue of it is reported to be that of October 2003, which was followed by an official statement at a meeting of the International Atomic Energy Agency (IAEA) in Vienna, two years later on August 2005.\n\nThe fatwa have received criticisms regarding the existence, applicability and constancy of it. According to Khalaji, Khamenei may alter his fatwa under critical circumstances, in a similar manner as Khomeini did. While, according to Gareth Porter in Foreign Policy, Iran has sincerely banned the atomic bombs considering the \"historical episode during its eight-year war with Iraq\", when Iran never sought revenge for Iraqis chemical attacks killing 20,000 Iranians and severely injuring 100,000 more. Also, the fatwa is considered consistent with Islamic tradition.\n\nIn March 2014 the Indonesian Council of Ulama (Indonesia's highest Islamic clerical body) issued a fatwa against illegal hunting and wildlife trafficking. The fatwa instructed Muslims to protect endangered species by conserving their habitat and stopping illegal trade. The World Wide Fund for Nature described the fatwa as a positive step.\n\nSpanish Muslims proclaimed a fatwa against Osama Bin Laden in March 2005 issued by Mansur Escudero Bedate, Secretary General of the Islamic Commission of Spain. The ruling says that Bin Laden and \"his\" al-Qaeda had abandoned their religion and should thus be called \"al-Qaeda terrorists\" without using the adjective \"Islamic\". The fatwa urges other Muslims to make similar proclamations. They were followed in July 2005 by the Fiqh Council of North America, a ruling council that issued a fatwa against providing support to \"terrorist\" groups that make up their own rules by unjustifiably referring to Islam (see Istihlal).\n\nThe Fatwa on Terrorism is a 600-page Islamic decree against terrorism and suicide bombings released in March 2010. This fatwa is a direct refutation of the ideology of Al-Qaeda and the Taliban. It is one of the most extensive rulings, an \"absolute\" condemnation of terrorism without \"any excuses or pretexts\" which goes further than ever and declares terrorism as kufr under Islamic law. It was produced in Canada by an influential Muslim scholar Dr Muhammad Tahir-ul-Qadri and was launched in London on March 2, 2010. Dr Qadri said during the launch \"Terrorism is terrorism, violence is violence and it has no place in Islamic teaching and no justification can be provided for it, or any kind of excuses or ifs or buts.\" According to CNN, experts see the fatwa as a significant blow to terrorist recruiting.\n\nOn July 2, 2013 in Lahore, 50 Muslim scholars of the Sunni Ittehad Council (SIC) issued a collective fatwa against suicide bombings, the killing of innocent people, bomb attacks, and targeted killings declaring them as Haram or forbidden.\n\nOthers have also declared that terrorism is not Islamic by issuing fatwas against terrorism and fifteen lakh muslims support it.\n\nOn March 11, 2015, Syed Soharwardy, the founder of the Islamic Supreme Council of Canada, and 37 other Muslim leaders of various Islamic sects from across Canada gathered in Calgary and issued a fatwa condemning followers of the Islamic State (ISIS) as non-Muslims. Soharwardy cited capturing opponents and beheading them, killing Muslims who disagree with ISIS's actions, destroying mosques, burning enemy soldiers alive and encouraging Muslim girls to join ISIS, among others, as acts by ISIS that violate Islamic law. Under this fatwa, anybody who even wishes to join the group will be \"excommunicated from the Muslim community\" and no longer considered Muslim.\n\nFatwas involving violence are more likely to be well known than other fatwas, especially to non-Muslims. One possible reason is that non-Muslims regard most fatwas as not affecting them, but fatwas involving violence can potentially affect them. Fatwas do not only affect non-Muslims. It is important to note that a Fatwa is meant to be issued by a legal scholar, not by any political entity. Generally, any given case may have many fatwas (legal opinions) written by the scholars of the region and time. The fatwa backed by the State is the one with legal power. \n\nIn 2011, an Egyptian Muslim cleric, Yusuf al-Qaradawi, issued a fatwa that urged soldiers to kill Muammar al-Gaddafi, the leader of Libya, if they were able to do so.\n\nAn Australian imam named Feiz Mohammad has issued a fatwa calling for the beheading of the Dutch politician Geert Wilders, as of 2010.\n\nIn an interview given on September 30, 2002, for the October 6 edition of \"60 Minutes\", American Southern Baptist pastor and televangelist Jerry Falwell said: \"I think Muhammad was a terrorist. I read enough by both Muslims and non-Muslims, [to decide] that he was a violent man, a man of war.\"\n\nThe following Friday, Mohsen Mojtahed Shabestari, an Iranian cleric, issued a fatwa calling for Falwell's death, saying Falwell was a \"mercenary and must be killed.\" He added, \"The death of that man is a religious duty, but his case should not be tied to the Christian community.\"\n\nOne of the first well-known fatwas was proclaimed in 1989 by the Iranian Ayatollah Ruhollah Khomeini, against Salman Rushdie over his novel \"The Satanic Verses\". The reason was an allegedly blasphemous statement taken from an early biography of Muhammad, regarding the incorporation of pagan goddesses into Islam’s strongly monotheistic structure. Khomeini died shortly after issuing the fatwa. In 1998 Iran stated it is no longer pursuing Rushdie’s death; however, that decree was again reversed in early 2005 by the present theocrat, Ayatollah Ali Khamenei.\n\nIn 1991, Rushdie's Japanese translator, Hitoshi Igarashi, was stabbed to death in Tokyo, and his Italian translator was beaten and stabbed in Milan. In 1993, Rushdie's Norwegian publisher William Nygaard was shot and severely injured in an attack outside his house in Oslo. Thirty-seven guests died when their hotel in Sivas, Turkey was torched by locals protesting against Aziz Nesin, Rushdie's Turkish translator.\n\nIn February 2016, in celebration of the anniversary of the fatwa against Rushdie, Iranian state-run median agencies added $300,000 to the estimated $3.3 Million bounty for the death of Rushdie.\n\nFundamentalists in Bangladesh proclaimed a fatwa against Taslima Nasreen in 1993, against a series of newspaper columns in which she was critical of the treatment of women under Islam. The next year she wrote \"Lajja\" (Shame) which described the abuse of women and minorities. Again there were calls for her death, and her passport was confiscated. Within the legal system, she felt that she might have faced a jail term of up to two years, where she was likely to be murdered. She managed to escape the country via Calcutta, was granted asylum in Sweden, and then lived in Paris, and finally went to India. Even in India, she had to flee the city of Kolkata and move to Delhi under the Indian government's strict orders following riots in Kolkata.\n\nMamuda Aliyu Shinkafi, the deputy governor of Zamfara state in Nigeria, issued a fatwa in November 2002 calling for the death of journalist Isioma Daniel for comments suggesting that Muhammad may have chosen a wife from one of the Miss World contest. Other Muslim authorities have questioned the validity of the fatwa.\n\nIn an audio file published on the Kurdish website Renesans.nu during September 2008, Mullah Krekar allegedly threatened to kill Mariwan Halabjaee, the Iraqi Kurdish author of \"Sex, Sharia and Women in the History of Islam\", who also resided in Norway. \"I swear that we will not live if you live. Either you go before us, or we go before you,\" said Krekar. Krekar compared Halabjaee with Salman Rushdie and Ayaan Hirsi Ali.\n\nIn February 2012, Krekar confirmed in the Oslo District Court that he had issued a twenty-page fatwa against Halabjaee. The fatwa was sent to several hundred Islamic scholars around the world. While Krekar said he thought he might be able to \"guarantee the safety\" of Halabjaee, Krekar confirmed that his fatwa \"implies\" that it is \"permissible\" to kill Halabjaee in Oslo or anywhere else. Krekar compared Halabjaee to Theo van Gogh, the film director who was killed by an Islamist in the Netherlands in 2004.\n\nIn 2003, a group of Indonesian Islamic clerics from Forum Ulama Umat Islam issued a death fatwa against Ulil for an article that Ulil wrote in \"Kompas\" in 2002, \"Menyegarkan Kembali Pemahaman Islam\" (Rejuvenating the Islamic Understanding) that is considered heretical by the clerics. In March 2011, a letter bomb addressed to Ulil at Komunitas Utan Kayu exploded, injuring a police officer.\n\nIn June 1992, Egyptian writer Farag Foda was assassinated following a fatwa issued by ulamas from Al-Azhar who had adopted a previous fatwa by Sheikh al-Azhar, Jadd al-Haqq, accusing Foda and other secularist writers of being \"enemies of Islam\". The jihadist group Al-Gama'a al-Islamiyya claimed responsibility for the murder.\n\n"}
{"id": "44821668", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44821668", "title": "List of winners of the Sir Hugh Casson Award", "text": "List of winners of the Sir Hugh Casson Award\n\nThe Sir Hugh Casson Award for the worst new building of the year has been awarded annually since 1982 by the 'Nooks and Corners' column of the British satirical magazine \"Private Eye\". The name ironically honours Sir Hugh Casson. Column author Gavin Stamp explained in 2015 that \"he would turn up - take a fee - for giving evidence at public inquiries to recommend the demolition of buildings: a trade I despise\". Stamp noted that Casson would sometimes mention his office as Vice-Chairman of The Victorian Society when arguing for the demolition of Victorian buildings. The medal of the award uses a sketch of Casson which is a self-portrait.\n"}
{"id": "41207268", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41207268", "title": "Marxist historiography", "text": "Marxist historiography\n\nMarxist historiography, or historical materialist historiography, is a school of historiography influenced by Marxism. The chief tenets of Marxist historiography are the centrality of social class and economic constraints in determining historical outcomes.\n\nMarxist historiography has made contributions to the history of the working class, oppressed nationalities, and the methodology of history from below. The chief problematic aspect of Marxist historiography has been an argument on the nature of history as \"determined\" or \"dialectical\"; this can also be stated as the relative importance of subjective and objective factors in creating outcomes.\n\nMarxist history is generally deterministic: it posits a direction of history, towards an end state of history as classless human society. Marxist historiography, that is, the writing of Marxist history in line with the given historiographical principles, is generally seen as a tool. Its aim is to bring those oppressed by history to self-consciousness, and to arm them with tactics and strategies from history: it is both a historical and a liberatory project.\n\nHistorians who use Marxist methodology, but disagree with the mainstream of Marxism, often describe themselves as \"marxist\" historians (with a lowercase \"M\"). Methods from Marxist historiography, such as class analysis, can be divorced from the liberatory intent of Marxist historiography; such practitioners often refer to their work as \"marxian\" or \"Marxian\".\n\nFriedrich Engels' most important historical contribution was \"Der deutsche Bauernkrieg\" (\"The German Peasants' War\"), which analysed social warfare in early Protestant Germany in terms of emerging capitalist classes. \"The German Peasants' War\" indicate the Marxist interest in history from below and class analysis, and attempts a dialectical analysis.\n\nMarx's most important works on social and political history include \"The Eighteenth Brumaire of Louis Napoleon\", \"The Communist Manifesto\", \"The German Ideology\", and those chapters of \"Das Kapital\" dealing with the historical emergence of capitalists and proletarians from pre-industrial English society.\n\nEngels' short treatise \"The Condition of the Working Class in England in 1844\" (1870s) was salient in creating the socialist impetus in British politics.\n\nKey to understanding Marxist historiography is his view of labor. For Marx \"historical reality is none other than objectified labor, and all conditions of labor given by nature, including the organic bodies of people, are merely preconditions and 'disappearing moments' of the labor process.\" This emphasis on the physical as the determining factor in history represents a break from virtually all previous historians. Until Marx developed his theory of historical materialism, the overarching determining factor in the direction of history was some sort of divine agency. In Marx's view of history \"God became a mere projection of human imagination\" and more importantly \"a tool of oppression\". There was no more sense of divine direction to be seen. History moved by the sheer force of human labor, and all theories of divine nature were a concoction of the ruling powers to keep the working people in check. For Marx, \"The first historical act is... the production of material life itself.\" As one might expect, Marxist history not only begins with labor, it ends in production: \"history does not end by being resolved into \"self-consciousness\" as \"spirit of the spirit,\" but that in it at each stage there is found a material result: a sum of productive forces, a historically created relation of individuals to nature and to one another, which is handed down to each generation from its predecessor...\" For further, and much more comprehensive, information on this topic, see historical materialism.\n\nMarxist historiography suffered in the Soviet Union, as the government requested overdetermined historical writing. Soviet historians tended to avoid contemporary history (history after 1905) where possible and effort was predominantly directed at premodern history. As history was considered to be a politicised academic discipline, historians limited their creative output to avoid prosecution.\n\nNotable histories include the \"Short Course History of the Communist Party of the Soviet Union (Bolshevik)\", published in the 1930s, which was written in order to justify the nature of Bolshevik party life under Joseph Stalin.\n\nA circle of historians inside the Communist Party of Great Britain (CPGB) formed in 1946. They shared a common interest in \"history from below\" and class structure in early capitalist society. While some members of the group (most notably Christopher Hill and E. P. Thompson) left the CPGB after the 1956 Hungarian Revolution, the common points of British Marxist historiography continued in their works. They placed a great emphasis on the subjective determination of history. E. P. Thompson famously engaged Althusser in \"The Poverty of Theory\", arguing that Althusser's theory overdetermined history, and left no space for historical revolt by the oppressed.\n\nThompson's \"The Making of the English Working Class\" is one of the works commonly associated with this group. Eric Hobsbawm's \"Bandits\" is another example of this group's work.\n\nC. L. R. James was also a great pioneer of the 'history from below' approach. Living in Britain when he wrote his most notable work \"The Black Jacobins\" (1938), he was an anti-Stalinist Marxist and so outside of the CPGB.\n\nIn India, D. D. Kosambi is considered the founding father of Marxist historiography. The senior-most scholars of Marxist historiography are R. S. Sharma, Irfan Habib, D. N. Jha and K. N. Panikkar.\n\nOne debate in Indian history that relates to a historical materialist schema is on the nature of feudalism in India. D. D. Kosambi in the 1960s outlined the idea of \"feudalism from below\" and \"feudalism from above\". R. S. Sharma largely agrees with Kosambi in his various books. Most Indian Marxists argue that the economic origins of communalism are feudal remnants and the economic insecurities caused by slow development under a \"world capitalist system.\"\n\nB. R. Ambedkar criticized Marxists, as he deemed them to be unaware or ignorant of the specifics of caste issues. A number of historians have also debated Marxist historians and critically examined their analysis of history of India. Since the late 1990s, Hindu nationalist scholars especially have polemicized against the Marxist tradition in India for neglecting what they believe to be the country's 'illustrious past.' Marxists are held responsible for aiding or defending Muslims, who figure in Hindu nationalist discourse as the enemy within. An example of such a critique is Arun Shourie's \"Eminent Historians\" (1998).\n\n\n"}
{"id": "451981", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=451981", "title": "Narrative poetry", "text": "Narrative poetry\n\nNarrative poetry is a form of poetry that tells a story, often making the voices of a narrator and characters as well; the entire story is usually written in metered verse. Narrative poems do not need rhyme. The poems that make up this genre may be short or long, and the story it relates to may be complex. It is normally dramatic, with objectives, diverse and meter. Narrative poems include epics, ballads, idylls, and lays.\n\nSome narrative poetry takes the form of a novel in verse. An example of this is \"The Ring and the Book\" by Robert Browning. In the terms of narrative poetry, a romance is a narrative poem that tells a story of chivalry. Examples include the \"Romance of the Rose\" or Tennyson's \"Idylls of the King\". Although those examples use medieval and Arthurian materials, romances may also tell stories from classical mythology. \n\nShorter narrative poems often similar in style to the short story. Sometimes, these short narratives are collected into interrelated groups, as with Chaucer's \"The Canterbury Tales\". So sagas include both incidental poetry and the biographies of poets. An example is \"The Cremation of Sam McGee\" by Robert Service.\n\nThe oral tradition essentially all other modern forms of communication. For thousands of years, people groups accurately passed on their history through the Oral Tradition from generation to generation. As a clear example and the oldest one comes from Ancient India, the Vedic Chant, which is often considered the oldest unbroken oral tradition in existence today. In addition, one of the most notable was the ancient Hebrews, people of the Middle East; they were taught and passed on the stories of God in over 115 countries worldwide. The poetry in the Bible is called the Psalms, that capture stories of conquest, failure, confession and more. Some of it is narrative in nature.\n\nHistorically, much of poetry has its source in an oral tradition: in more recent times the Scots and English ballads, the tales of Robin Hood, of Iskandar, and various Baltic and Slavic heroic poems all were originally intended for recitation, rather than reading. In many cultures, there remains a lively tradition of the recitation of traditional tales in verse formativeness. It has been suggested that some of the distinctive features that distinguish poetry from prose, such as metre, alliteration and kennings, at one time served as memory aids that allowed the bards who recited traditional tales to reconstruct them from memory.\n\nA narrative poem usually tells a story using a poetic theme. Epics are very vital to narrative poems, although it is thought those narrative poems were created to explain oral traditions. The focus of narrative poetry is often the pros and cons of life.\n\n"}
{"id": "51437369", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51437369", "title": "Programa Silvio Santos", "text": "Programa Silvio Santos\n\nPrograma Silvio Santos is a Brazilian variety program presented and created by Silvio Santos and broadcast by Sistema Brasileiro de Televisão (SBT). Airing since June 2, 1963, it is the second oldest television program in Brazil. It is the main attraction of SBT on Sundays. The program airs from 20:00 until midnight. It is best known as a program of sequential segments, game shows, pranks and its famous airplanes of money.\n\nIn 1993, the program was even awarded the title of \"Oldest Program of the Brazilian TV\" by Guinness World Records, shortly after losing the title to the \"Mosaico na TV\", broadcast since July 16, 1961.\n\n"}
{"id": "48900344", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48900344", "title": "Rilu Rilu Fairilu", "text": "Rilu Rilu Fairilu\n\nAn anime adaptation produced by Studio DEEN, titled \"Rilu Rilu Fairilu ~Yousei no Door~\", aired on all TXN stations in Japan from February 6, 2016 to March 25, 2017. A second season titled \"Rilu Rilu Fairilu ~Maho no Kagami~\" began airing from April 7, 2017 to March 30, 2018. A 3rd season titled \"Oshiete Mahou no Pendulum ~Rilu Rilu Fairilu~\" began its airing on July 7, 2018.\n\nIn a strange magical world of Little Fairilu live the Fairilus: small magical fairies representing flowers, insects and other entities who all born from the Fairilu Seed. Each Fairilu is born with its own key, the Fairilu Key, that can open magical doors, casting magic spells. If the Fairilu finds the right door, it can finally mature into a full-fledged fairy. The doors also link to the human world. Fairilus must study and go to school to learn about the world in which they live, while meeting new friends.\n\nThe anime series focuses on Lip, a newly-born Flower Fairilu, and her friends in Little Fairlu. The series follows Lip's overall life in Little Fairilu while making new friends and learning from everything around her, growing up day after day. It also tells about the Fairilu friends' adventures in the human world, where they can meet their human partners who support their dreams and are willing to help each other fulfill them.\n\nThe anime tells about a human girl called Arisu Hanazono, who by chance discovered a magical pendulum and book, summoning Fairilus. She is a girl with many worries, but by meeting the friendly Fairilus and traveling into their homeworld, Little Fairilu, she gets a chance to solve her problems and change herself.\n\n\n\n\nThe franchise was first announced in Press Conference on December 11, 2015 as the second collaboration work between Sanrio and Sega Sammy Holdings, meant for the younger female demographic. It was revealed also that the series will have themes relating to flowers and keys, as well as mermaids and insects with characters officially based on the said themes. Merchandise of the series is officially planned, including stationary, toys, raincoats, clothing and more and was released in March 2016. In games, the series will appear in the next installment of the Apron of Magic Arcade game. More information of the franchise was unveiled on the 2016 Sanrio Expo on January 30, 2016, which includes the Sanrio Puroland Mascot form of Lip as well as revealed merchandise.\n\nAn anime adaptation of the series, titled is officially animated by Studio DEEN and began airing in all TXN stations in Japan on February 6, 2016, replacing \"\" on its initial timeslot, and is ended in March 25, 2017. It is directed by Sakura Gojō and written by Aya Matsui (\"Boys Over Flowers\", \"Marmalade Boy\", \"Tamagotchi!\"). The anime's opening theme is titled Brand New Days by Korean Pop group Apink as their 5th Japanese Single. The first ending theme is titled key of life by Shiggy Jr, the second is titled by Kera Kera, and the third is titled by Yumiri Hanamori, Rina Hidaka, Aya Uchida and Aina Kusuda as Lip, Sumire, Himawari and Rose.\n\nA sequel, titled was announced by Sanrio via the official Anime Twitter account, began airing on April 7, 2017, and is set to end on March 30, 2018. It is directed by Sakura Gojō and Nana Imanaka, written by Akemi Omode. The first opening theme of this series is titled by Girl group Apink as their 7th Japanese Single together with their song \"Bye Bye\", and the second is titled by Silent Siren. The first ending theme is titled by Q-pitch, and the second is titled by the same group.\n\nA third season, titled began its airing on Kids Station, Animax and Tokyo MX, and the premiere dates are July 7, July 8 and July 15, 2018 respectively. It is directed by Chisei Maeda and written by Akemi Omode. The anime's opening theme is titled by Yumiri Hanamori and Ari Ozawa as Lip and Spica. The ending theme is titled by Yumiri Hanamori as Lip.\n\n"}
{"id": "6007156", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6007156", "title": "Rural letter carrier", "text": "Rural letter carrier\n\nRural letter carriers are United States Postal Service and Canada Post employees who deliver mail in what are traditionally considered rural and suburban areas of the United States and Canada. Before Rural Free Delivery (RFD), rural citizens of the US and Canada were required to go to the post office in the cities to get their mail.\n\nThe rural carrier work force is divided into the following categories of employees:\n\nFor administrative and reporting purposes, regular rural carriers who serve on an established rural route on the basis of triweekly, five, five-and-a-half, or six days in a service week, are considered full-time employees.\n\nPart-time flexible rural carriers (PTFs) are those substitutes or rural carrier associates appointed following an assignment posting. These employees provide service on regular and auxiliary routes as directed by management.\n\nThe following employees provide service on established regular and auxiliary rural routes in the absence of regular or auxiliary rural carriers. This service may be as leave replacement and/or covering vacant regular routes pending the selection of regular rural carriers, as an auxiliary assistant or as an auxiliary route carrier:\n\n\nPersons hired prior to 1981 to serve an auxiliary rural route without time limitation.\n\nAssistant Rural Carriers (ARCs) were added to the 2016 contract. They primarily assist with package delivery on weekends & holidays, but can also be used to perform standard route duties on Saturdays.\n\nMuch support for the introduction of a nationwide rural mail delivery service came from The National Grange of the Order of Patrons of Husbandry, the nation's oldest agricultural organization. Formerly, residents of rural areas had to either travel to a distant Post office to pick up their mail, or else pay for delivery by a private carrier. Free mail delivery began in American cities in 1863 with a limited scope. Shortly afterwards, rural citizens began petitioning for equal consideration. Postmaster General John Wanamaker first suggested rural free deliver (RFD) of mail in the United States in his annual report for fiscal year 1891.\n\nThe Post Office Department first experimented with the idea of rural mail delivery on October 1, 1891 to determine the viability of RFD. They began with five routes covering ten miles, 33 years after free delivery in cities had begun. The first routes to receive RFD during its experimental phase were in Jefferson County, West Virginia, near Charles Town, Halltown and Uvilla.\n\nAfter five years of controversy, RFD finally became an official service in 1896 under President Grover Cleveland. That year, 82 rural routes were put into operation. The service has grown steadily. By 1901, the mileage had increased to over 100,000; the cost was $1,750,321 and over 37,000 carriers were employed. In 1910, the mileage was 993,068; cost $36,915,000; carriers 40,997. In 1913 came the introduction of parcel post delivery, which caused another boom in rural deliveries. Parcel post service allowed the distribution of national newspapers and magazines, and was responsible for millions of dollars of sales in mail-order merchandise to customers in rural areas. In 1930, there were 43,278 rural routes serving about 6,875,321 families. The cost was $106,338,341. In 1916, the Good Roads Bill authorized federal funds for highway construction, which opened up roads in rural America to allow passage of mail.\n\nToday, as in years past, the rural delivery service uses a network of rural routes traveled by carriers to deliver and pick up mail to and from roadside mailboxes. Formerly, an address for mail to a rural delivery address included both the rural route number and the box number, for example \"RR 5, Box 10.\" With the creation of the 911 emergency system, it became necessary to discontinue the old rural route numbers in favor of house numbers and street names as used on city routes. This change enabled emergency services to more quickly locate a rural residence.\n\nThe National Rural Letter Carriers' Association was formed in 1903 at a cost of fifty cents per year in dues to its members. Since its inception, it has had an effective legislative program in the United States Congress to promote and protect the interests of rural carriers. In 1962, President John F. Kennedy signed executive order 10988 establishing employee-management cooperation in the federal service. Rural carriers selected the NRLCA as their agent, and they have held exclusive recognition to represent the rural carrier craft within the United States Postal Service ever since. The NRLCA negotiates all labor agreements for the rural carrier craft with the USPS, including salaries. Rural letter carriers are considered bargaining unit employees in the United States Postal Service. This means that there is a contract between the Postal Service and the NRLCA. Only NRLCA can represent members of the rural carrier craft in the grievance procedure, including providing protection in disciplinary actions.\n\nTo be able to join the NRLCA, one must first be employed by the USPS and work in the rural carrier craft as a rural carrier associate, substitute rural carrier, rural carrier relief, part-time flexible or regular carrier. Temporary relief carriers, under guidelines covered by article 7 of the NRLCA/USPS contract, are excluded from membership. Upon completion and processing of NRLCA form 1187, an official membership card is mailed, and the benefits of membership begin. NRLCA provides information and fellowship for its members at county, district, state and national meetings where all members may participate in a democratic process of developing association policy. The NRLCA provides a monthly publication, \"The National Rural Letter Carrier\", to keep its members informed on postal and legislative matters of vital interest.\n\nRural carriers wear civilian clothes, not uniforms, while they deliver the mail. A minimal dress code is enforced, requiring cleanliness and a manner of dress that reflects a positive image of the Postal Service. Suggestive dress is prohibited. Proper footwear is required (no open toes or heels).\n\nWith national attention focusing on heightening security, rural carriers wear and display identification badges. ID badges are issued for security control of access to postal premises and operations and to identify individuals as USPS employees. An ID badge is provided to each rural carrier to be displayed during official duty hours.\n\nRural carriers are responsible for furnishing all vehicle equipment necessary for safe and prompt handling of the mail, unless a USPS-owned/leased vehicle is assigned to the route. (If a USPS-owned/leased vehicle is assigned to the route, relief carriers may be requested, but not required, to furnish a vehicle during emergency situations). The vehicle is required to be large enough to accommodate the normal mail volume and constructed to protect the mail from loss or damage.\n\nFor each day servicing a route using a privately owned vehicle, the USPS pays an \"Equipment Maintenance Allowance\" (EMA) in accordance with the applicable schedule. The carrier receives EMA for each service day he reports to the Post Office, and is scheduled to perform delivery.\n\nAdvertisements of any kind and offensive slogans are prohibited from appearing on the vehicle and attire of the rural carrier.\n\nIn Canada, Canada Post has designated that rural mail routes with more than 330 rural mailboxes (RMB's) are designated right hand drive (RHD) routes. RHD vehicles used by Canada Post employees can be purchased with the help of a vehicle allowance from Canada Post or provided by Canada Post directly. Vehicle maintenance allowances are similar to those offered in the United States.\n\nIn 1962, the NRLCA and Post Office negotiated their first contract under Executive Order 10988, and within it, the Heavy Duty Agreement, or Evaluated Pay System was instituted. Rural Carriers are paid a salary based on an evaluation of the route they deliver. Credit is given for all a carrier's duties and compensated accordingly. Adjustments to the annual salary may be made periodically as route situations change, such as the addition or deletion of territory or mileage. As an example, for every 12 houses with curbside service the route would be compensated for 24 minutes per week (4 minutes per day) along with associated time values for mail that is delivered or picked up, and mileage driven. The yearly salary range for most regular Rural Carriers on will vary between $40,000 and $65,000 depending on the route evaluation and longevity. Rural carriers cannot earn overtime pay except for short period during the Christmas season.\n\nThere are Cost of living adjustments and salary increases that are negotiated in each four-year contract. There are 15 step increases in a Rural Carrier pay scale. It takes about 12 years for a Rural Carrier to max out at the top of the pay scale.\n\nRelief carriers can be required to be trained on up to three routes. A relief carrier may be required to carry a route other than the primary route. The time would then be recorded on the PS Form 4240 for that route. PS Form 1234 Utility Card (commonly called green card) is used to record work hours when the carrier is doing miscellaneous duties or when attending training. Carriers will use more than one utility card if they work in more than one station. All times are compiled by the timekeeper and submitted for pay.\n\n"}
{"id": "38821465", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38821465", "title": "Saints Row IV", "text": "Saints Row IV\n\nSaints Row IV is an open world action-adventure video game developed by Volition and published by Deep Silver. It is the fourth title in the \"Saints Row\" series. In the game, the playable character is the leader of the 3rd Street Saints, a street gang that has become the world's most powerful and popular organization, and must fend off an alien invasion after becoming President of the United States and receiving superpowers. The player is free to explore their environment while completing main and side missions at their leisure. The game incorporates elements from science fiction video games and films, and continues the series' reputation for over-the-top parody. It was released in August 2013 for Microsoft Windows, PlayStation 3, and Xbox 360, and was later ported to PlayStation 4, Xbox One, and Linux in 2015.\n\nThe game was Volition's first after its sale to Koch Media in early 2013. The supernatural and superpower concept for the game started in \"Enter the Dominatrix\", a cancelled expansion planned for \"\", which the team expanded into \"Saints Row IV\". Volition later released a \"director's cut\" of \"Enter the Dominatrix\" as downloadable content for \"Saints Row IV\" alongside \"How the Saints Saved Christmas\", other weapons, costumes, and vehicle packs, and a standalone expansion, \"\" (which serves as the epilogue to the story). \"Saints Row IV\" received several limited and summative edition releases, and was briefly banned in Australia. Critics praised \"Saints Row IV\" humor and character customization options, but criticized its lack of challenge. It sold over one million copies in its first week.\n\nSimilar to previous \"Saints Row\" series games, \"Saints Row IV\" is an open world action game with third-person shooter elements wherein the player is free to explore the environment and, at their leisure, play story or side missions. As the leader of the Saints, a street gang that has become the world's most \"powerful and popular\" organization, the player is elected President of the United States, receives superpowers, and fends off an alien invasion. Most often the player will engage in shooting and racing activities, though other activities vary from fighting crowds of zombies, shoot-outs in tanks, side-scrolling brawlers, fights against supersized, daikaiju energy drink cans, and using a dubstep gun to interrupt 1950s Americana. The player-character receives elemental powers and superpowers that greatly increase their jump height and running speed, such that the player can hop over buildings and outrun vehicles. The elemental powers include abilities to shoot fire and ice projectiles, telekinetically toss things, and create shockwaves upon landing jumps. As the player progresses through the game, they can optionally upgrade their abilities and weapons skill tree by using collectible \"data clusters\" scattered around town. If the player becomes too rowdy, the alien race's police analogue will intervene. As in previous games, the player-character's look and feel is entirely customizable via a robust character editor feature.\n\nThe game is set in a nearly identical simulation of Steelport, the fictional city setting from \"\", though individual story missions have new, custom-designed levels. \"Saints Row IV\" story parodies science fiction video games, especially \"Mass Effect 2\", as well as films like \"The Matrix\" and \"Zero Dark Thirty\", and other \"nerd culture\". Some story missions are propelled by individual characters' existential crises, as each Saint character is stuck in a personal simulation of their own hell, and must be rescued by the player. Other elements borrowed from video game culture include BioWare-style character romances games and a \"Metal Gear\"-style mission with an unhelpful partner.\n\nCity districts are \"liberated\" from alien occupation as the player completes side missions in occupied districts. Liberated districts increase the player's hourly income, which can be spent on weapons, skills, and perks. Side missions include Insurance Fraud (where the player jumps into traffic to collect insurance money), demolition derby-style Mayhem, and superpowered foot races. \"Saints Row IV\" has a two-player cooperative mode.\n\nA few months after the events of \"\", The Boss, Shaundi and Pierce Washington are called upon to assist MI-6 agent Asha Odekar and her contact, reformed former Deckers leader Matt Miller, in infiltrating a Middle Eastern compound to assassinate former STAG leader Cyrus Temple and prevent a nuclear missile strike against Washington D.C. The Boss kills Cyrus, but is unable to stop him from launching the missile. Climbing aboard it, the Boss disarms the nuke before it reaches Washington, earning the adoration of America.\n\nFive years later, The Boss has been elected President of the United States, with the other members of the Saints, Keith David and former Vice Kings leader Benjamin King acting as cabinet. While preparing for a press conference, the Boss is told that Asha and Matt have arrived at the White House to warn them of what they suspect is an impending alien invasion. Just as the Boss is informed, the invasion begins, spearheaded by the alien warlord Zinyak, who captures the entire cabinet, including the Boss.\n\nThe Boss wakes up in a 1950s sitcom set in the city of Pleasantville, devoid of violence and foul language. The Saints' computer hacking specialist, Kinzie Kensington, contacts the Boss and informs them that they are trapped inside a simulation, with each of the Zin's prisoners trapped inside personal simulations of their own fears in order to break their will. With Kinzie's help, the Boss breaks free of the simulation and joins Kinzie and Keith in a stolen Zin ship.\n\nWhile the trio attempt to contact reinforcements from Earth, Zinyak atomizes the planet, killing everyone not already captured by the Zin, including Oleg Kirlov, Josh, Zimos, and Viola. Enraged, the Boss returns to the Steelport simulation to find their friends and reach Zinyak. After rescuing another prisoner of Zinyak, an artificial intelligence later named CID, and providing him with a physical body, the Boss, with his help, goes into the other Saint's simulations and rescues them from their nightmares.\n\nAs the simulation begins to weaken under the Saints' influence, Zinyak floods virtual Steelport with copies of gang members the Boss has faced in the past. Kinzie determines that the copies are being made from someone's memory, leading the Boss to conclude Johnny Gat, who was seemingly killed during the events of \"Saints Row: The Third\", is still alive and trapped within the simulation. Despite protests from Kinzie and Matt that rescuing Johnny will reveal their location to Zinyak, the Boss rescues Johnny from his nightmare of Aisha's death and gets him back to the ship. Johnny explains that during the fight in which he was presumed killed, he was actually abducted by Zinyak years in advance of their invasion, as Zinyak had concluded that Johnny could have single-handedly stopped him if left on Earth.\n\nThe Saints rally inside the simulation in order to confront Zinyak, but are ambushed by an enormous Zin force. They escape, but Kinzie is captured by Zinyak and the Boss emerges from the simulation to find that Keith betrayed the Saints and fled. Returning to Steelport, the Boss finds Keith has been declared president of the simulation. When confronted, Keith claims that Zinyak has the means to restore Earth, and has agreed to do so in exchange for the Boss' life. The Boss, determined to find Kinzie, pursues Keith into his nightmare, and with help from Roddy Piper, beats Keith up until he barely manages to tell them where Kinzie has been taken to, Keith ultimately comes to his senses and rejoins the Saints.\n\nAfter the Boss rescues Kinzie from her nightmare, she devises a plan to crash the simulation, which will force the Zin to draw power from their ship to keep it running, thus weakening the ship itself and creating an opening for the Saints to enter. Working together, the remaining Saints manage to overload the simulation, shutting it down just as the Boss escapes. Assaulting Zinyak's ship, the Boss finds power armor emulating the powers they had in the simulation, and confronts Zinyak in his throne room. While the entire Zin Empire watches, Zinyak and the Boss battle each other. With help from the Saints, the Boss kills Zinyak by tearing his head off and emerges victorious. Impressed, the Zin forces surrender to the Boss, who becomes the new head of the Zin Empire.\n\nThe Boss asks Zinjai, Zinyak's main servant, for technology to bring Earth back. Zinjai says they cannot restore Earth as it was atomized, but can use time-travel technology to return to Earth, explaining that Zinyak had used this technology to collect his favorite historical figures, keeping them in suspended animation. The Boss looks at the Saints and says, \"Let's go on a field trip.\" In a post-credits scene, the nineteenth century writer Jane Austen, whom the Boss is a fan of, is woken out of her stasis, revealing that she had been the narrator throughout the game.\n\nIf all of the loyalty missions have not been completed, an alternate ending plays out, which sees the Saints make plans to take over more planets, unaware of their ability to use time travel.\n\nA number of characters from earlier games in the franchise - both members of the Third Street Saints and former adversaries - make a return in \"Saints Row IV\", many of whom take up the protagonist's Presidential administration. Kinzie Kensington, the socially awkward FBI hacker from \"Saints Row: The Third\" becomes the White House's Press Secretary, often tasked with clearing up the mess left behind by the President's verbal missteps. Benjamin King, former leader of the Vice Kings gang from the original Saints Row, becomes the President's Chief of Staff, while Pierce Washington has been appointed the Communications Director and Shaundi as the Director of the Secret Service.\n\nMatt Miller, having abandoned the Deckers and, according to news broadcasts in \"Saints Row: The Third\", announced an abstinence from the use of technology, presumably returned to the United Kingdom and became employed by MI-6 alongside new character Asha Odekar. Johnny Gat also returns after being thought dead in \"Saints Row: The Third\". Stilwater, the location of the first two games, makes an appearance for one mission with most of the street gangs from the first three games making appearances as well.\n\nAfter the release of \"Saints Row: The Third\", preliminary work on a game called \"Saints Row: Part Four\" began. The game would take place after the events of \"The Third\" in a new city and feature gameplay similar to \"The Third\". Meanwhile, a standalone expansion to \"The Third\" called \"Enter the Dominatrix\" was first announced as a 2012 April Fool's joke, but still went into development. The expansion pack's basic concept included a superpowered player-character trapped by alien commander Zinyak in a simulation of Steelport. With THQ suffering financially, its president Jason Rubin encouraged company subsidiary and \"Saints Row\" series developer Volition to grow elements from the expansion into a full game. The company announced this change in direction in June 2012, cancelling \"Saints Row: Part Four\" and expanding \"Enter the Dominatrix\" into a full sequel, \"Saints Row IV\". The company's strategy was partly to avoid sales issues by releasing the game in August 2013, prior to the circulation of rumors about next generation video game consoles. Volition was sold to Koch Media in early 2013 when its parent company, THQ, filed for bankruptcy. It became Koch's first internal video game studio. The studio officially announced \"Saints Row IV\" two months later, which was published by Koch Media brand Deep Silver. Acquired without rights to their \"Red Faction\" series, Volition's new goals were to make connected, open world games where \"the player is an agent of mayhem\". The entire company worked on the one game.\n\nEach of the \"Saints Row\" series games had a core intent, and while the first three games built on the first's \"outlandishness and irreverence\", the fourth focused on \"the supernatural and superpowers\". Senior producer Jim Boone recalled reviewers that asked whether the company could be \"more over-the-top\" than \"Saints Row: The Third\", which they took as a challenge. The team focused more on making the game \"fun\" than \"for the sake of being over the top\", and felt that superpowers helped the game's basic navigation and combat. They also chose to remove the previous game's in-game mobile phone-based navigation, which hindered its narration, and replaced it with a \"quest log structure\". The team chose not to devote as much time improving the game's graphics, considering the impending release of next generation platforms. The game spent less time in development than prior series games.\n\nIn August 2014, Volition announced that they would be releasing a development kit for the Windows version of the game, which lets players modify game assets and create new weapons.\n\nThe in-game radio has seven pre-programmed radio stations and 109 licensed tracks. The game's original soundtrack is composed by Malcolm Kirby Jr., who also composed the previous game's soundtrack.\n\nOn November 2016, the PC version included Steam Workshop, allowing players to release a wide number of mods such as characters and weapons included in the game.\n\n\"Saints Row IV\" was released for Microsoft Windows, PlayStation 3, and Xbox 360 in North America on August 20, 2013, and worldwide on three days later. Preorders included a patriot-themed downloadable content pack that included flamethrower, dubstep, and rocket launcher weapons, a bald eagle jet, and an Uncle Sam outfit. A limited edition release of the game included a replica of the game's dubstep gun, a doomsday button, and Johnny Gat statuette. Another limited edition release, the Game of the Generation Edition, included the previous items as well as a display case for the game. The game was originally refused ratings classification and effectively banned in Australia, but was later accepted when modified to remove an optional mission that involved an anal probe weapon and incentivized drug use. The country's PlayStation 4 release was later recalled due to a classification error.\n\nThe game received multiple downloadable content packs. A Season Pass, which features two new mission packs and the aforementioned anal probe weapon, was announced prior to the game's release. The first mission pack, \"Enter the Dominatrix\", was released October 22, 2013. The pack was originally intended as but evolved into the full sequel, \"Saints Row IV\". The leftover content became the sequel's first mission pack. It tells an alternative story about the Zin invasion wherein the Steelport simulation is hijacked by a rogue artificial intelligence called the Dominatrix. The pack's storytelling frequently breaks the fourth wall and self-referentially acknowledges its own plot holes and incongruence with the larger \"Saints Row\" story. Some scenes end in concept art or videos of Volition employees acting out the drama so as to give the game an unfinished feel. The pack also casts characters from \"Saints Row: The Third\" who did not return in the sequel. There are five missions in total, new weapons, vehicles, and computer-controlled support characters (\"homies\"). The second and final mission pack, \"How the Saints Save Christmas\", features new weapons and vehicles and a plot to save Santa Claus from the Steelport simulation. It was released in December 2013. Non-mission downloadable content packs include new costumes, vehicles, and weapons, e.g., face masks of United States Presidents George Washington, Abraham Lincoln, George W. Bush, and Barack Obama.\n\n\"Saints Row IV\" was released in several summative editions. The Game of the Century edition included 20 downloadable content sets and was released May 9, 2014. The National Treasure Edition included 29 downloadable content sets and was released on July 8, 2014. High Voltage Software ported the game to PlayStation 4 and Xbox One with all of its downloadable content as \"Saints Row IV: Re-Elected\". It was announced in late August 2014 alongside \"\", a standalone \"Saints Row IV\" expansion developed by Volition in conjunction with High Voltage. Both were released in North America on January 20, 2015, and worldwide three days later, both separately and bundled together. The release included new features such as voice commands. A Linux port was presented in December 2015.\n\nThe game received generally positive reviews, according to video game review aggregator Metacritic. Reviewers praised its over-the-top humor and character customization options, and criticized its lack of challenge. Several also commented on its \"even-handed treatment\" of gender, particularly female characters, and spotlighted hacker and former FBI agent Kinzie Kensington's character performance. \"Saints Row IV\" sold over one million copies in its first week, and as of 2013, Volition has not released total sales figures.\n\n\"Polygon\" Danielle Riendeau described \"Saints Row IV\" as \"big, goofy, and self-referential fun\" and thought that the game accomplished what it set out to be: \"an outrageous exercise in player power fantasy\". She also praised the game's degree of freedom around character identity, its \"dumb and lovable\" narrative, and its transitions between varied sequences. Riendeau wrote that Volition \"trimmed the fat\" from previous games, and that their addition of superpowers \"blew the constraints off a genre already known for player freedom\". She considered the story funny and \"as obvious as can be\", but found its characters \"well-realized\". Riendeau particularly praised the game's \"treatment of gender\"—bold female characters who could pursue same-sex relationships or even switch their gender mid-game, and were not treated differently for being female—but found the game's continued association between women and sex workers \"problematic\" and a \"vestige from the series' roots as a juvenile crime drama\".\n\nReflecting on the series' progression, \"Eurogamer\" Chris Schilling said that \"Saints Row IV\" successfully reinvented the series yet again, with superpowers replacing the usefulness of in-game vehicles. He compared the game's exploration mechanics to that of \"Crackdown\", and its superpowers to the \"Infamous\" and \"Prototype\" series, and added that the game's silliness fulfilled a specific niche in gaming. Schilling wrote that the need to restock at ammo shops was a \"jarring holdover\" from the previous games, but appreciated the recurrence of elements such as the GPS navigation system, side mission gameplay, and city district liberation. He regarded the game overall as artful but \"gloriously dumb\", like \"the Sistine Chapel ceiling of stupidity\". Schilling also commented on how he felt an urge to simply forgo the story to search for collectibles, though despite these options, the game became \"wearying\" over long play sessions.\n\nSimilarly, Dan Stapleton of IGN became bored when his superhero protagonist had little \"to overcome\", and ultimately likened the game to \"enabling god-like cheat codes\" in its predecessor. He wrote that it was very difficult to die, given the large amount of power-ups dropped by enemies, and that the otherwise praiseworthy features from \"Saints Row: The Third\" felt \"vestigial\" when outmoded by superpowers. Stapleton said the player received the powers too early, which let the player play without caring about the city, and thus removed the \"sense of place and character it had in the previous game\". He considered the game's large number of collectibles an acknowledgement of this hole, which while originally rewarding, quickly becomes a \"chore\". Stapleton praised the \"Red Faction\"-style Disintegrator and Abductor guns, though considered the dubstep gun an \"ineffective disappointment\". As a symbol, though, \"Polygon\" described the dubstep gun as \"iconic\" of \"Saints Row IV\".\n\n"}
{"id": "31914016", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31914016", "title": "Sally Patience", "text": "Sally Patience\n\nSally Patience is an Australian actress and one of the country's most prominent voice-over artists. She was born in Melbourne and grew up in the city's south eastern suburbs. She attended the Victorian College of the Arts where she trained as a dancer. Sally Patience worked in the dance field for several years before moving into acting and ultimately voice-over work where she continues to work today.\n\nThe Double Take shows began in Sydney in 1986 and was part of the dub parody genre in which ostensibly serious films were deliberately re-voiced in a satirical or spoof-like manner. Well-known examples of this genre include the 1960s Jay Ward TV series Fractured Flickers and Woody Allen's What's Up, Tiger Lily? (1966).\n\nDouble Take performances featured distinctly Australian voicings (often with exaggerated \"Ocker\" and ethnic Australian accents) and many local humorous references and the films that the Double Take team sent up were presented in their entirety with scripts were carefully tailored to follow the original sequencing of the movies. Double Take scripts were developed by Des Mangan and Lisa Sweeney and Sally Patience joined much later to become a contributor who provided voices for the films.\n\nMangan and Patience later gained a strong following around Australia with Double Take shows, which were performed live in a cinema, after Mangan and Sweeney had established the troupe's reputation. Typically seated at the back of the auditorium, using microphones plugged into the cinema's sound system, the Double Take team performed live comedic voice-overs of movies such as the American B-grade sci-fi film The Astro-zombies and the 1960s Italian low-budget 'Sword and Sandal' epic Ercole, Sansone, Maciste e Ursus gli invincibili. Of necessity much of their voice-over performance was tightly scripted, but working live also allowed the team scope to occasionally insert topical jokes and references.\n\nThe Double Take show was taken to a new level in the feature film Hercules Returns. Sally Patience played a major role in the movie by contributing to its script and by providing the bulk of the female voices for the film.\n\nThe managers of the Hercules Returns project purchased the rights to both the original Ercole film and Mangan's script, hired cinematographer and film maker David Parker to help write a story to wrap around the Double Take routine. The film was Parker's first as a director and the project came in on time and on budget at a cost of less than A$1 million, and shooting was completed in just eight days.\n\nOn release of the film Urban Cinefile reported that -\n\nSimilarly, the Mark Takacs in his review of Hercules Returns on the Internet Movie Data Base comments that -\n\nThe lead actors who appeared on screen in Hercules Returns were well-known to local Australian audiences. Bruce Spence has been one of the country's most prominent stage and screen actors since the early 1970s. Mary Coustas was a member of the popular \"Wogs Out of Work\" team, where she created her Greek-Australian character \"Effie\", and she co-starred in the popular TV sitcom Acropolis Now. David Argue was well known from his many live comedy, TV and film appearances. Director David Parker has had a long association with writer-director Nadia Tass and they have collaborated on many popular films including Malcolm. Hercules Returns is also notable as the last screen credit for veteran actor Frank Thring (who performed the voice of Zeus) and there are also cameo appearances by Australian film critics David Stratton, Margaret Pomeranz and Ivan Hutchinson.\n\nIronically, the 'real' stars of the film, Des Mangan and Sally Patience, do not appear on screen in the movie and their voice-overs are instead mimed by Argue, Spence and Coustas.When revoiced for the sound track for the film The voice over artists Included argue who provided Diolouge for a character. Mathew king voiced Frank thring, several other characters, and another voice over artist; assorted characters .\nDes mangan had originally written the Screen play for he and Patience. But after being auditioned by parker, It was recast with actors.\n\nSally Patience has appeared in a number of other screen roles including as a backing singer in the Australian film Billy's Holiday and in the television drama Dog's Head Bay as Dimity Todd.\n\nSally Patience has since become one of Australia's best known voice-over artists and she regularly works on major national and local advertising campaigns.\n\n"}
{"id": "471427", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=471427", "title": "Selling out", "text": "Selling out\n\n\"Selling out\" is a common idiomatic pejorative expression for the compromising of a person's integrity, morality, authenticity, or principles in exchange for personal gain, such as money. In terms of music or art, selling out is associated with attempts to tailor material to a mainstream or commercial audience. For example, a musician who alters his material to encompass a wider audience, and in turn generates greater revenue, may be labeled by fans who pre-date the change as a \"sellout.\" A sellout also refers to someone who gives up, or disregards, hence the term 'sells' – someone or something – for some other thing or person. The term could also be used as 'sold out' depending on the context.\n\nIn political movements a \"sellout\" is a person or group claiming to adhere to one ideology, only to follow these claims up with actions contradicting them, such as a revolutionary group claiming to fight for a particular cause, but failing to continue this upon obtaining power.\n\nAn example of political \"selling out\" is a political party who has formed a coalition with another party it had historically opposed, such as the Liberal Democrats' leader Nick Clegg's coalition with the Conservative Party after the 2010 general election in the United Kingdom, during which he reneged on his pledge to oppose any increase in student tuition fees.\n\nThere are two distinct forms of \"selling out\" in terms of music. First, there is the use of the term \"sell out\" to refer to those who sign for major labels or to those who licence their music to companies for use in advertising that contradicts their apparent values. Secondly, the expression can refer to those who sacrifice their musical integrity through a change in their musical sound, sometimes due to pressure from major labels or in order to gain profit by making their music more appealing to a mainstream audience.\n\nSince the time of big band radio shows there has been an established relationship between musicians and commercialisation. There had been some signs of resistance to this model as early as the 1960s, when gospel group The Blind Boys of Alabama refused to sign record deals to record secular music. It was not until the punk subculture in the 1970s that the notion that musicians should be completely independent of commercial influences began to increase in popularity. This partly manifested itself in the reluctance of bands to sign for major labels, as this would include taking part in activities that were seen as crass and overly commercial. This continued into the 1980s, when bands were scorned by fanzines for signing with major labels as the mainstream success this would bring was symptomatic of the general decay in culture. However, after a number of bands maintained the quality of their records after signing for a major label, by the end of the 1980s the focus on \"selling out\" shifted to advertising.\n\nThe attitude held by those who disliked the idea of \"selling out\" towards advertising was negative; comedian Bill Hicks claimed that any band who licensed their music for advertising was \"off the artistic roll call forever\", and Neil Young mocked the fact that songs became associated with brands on his 1988 album \"This Note's for You\". However, although it was possible for fans to feel a sense of betrayal due to the relationship they developed with the song and artist, when artists did allow their music to be used for commercials others considered the advertised product to be more appealing. As CD sales fell and record companies became unwilling or unable to afford the push new bands needed to become established, sponsorship of bands by major companies began to be seen as more acceptable, with even minor record labels devoting time and money towards marketing deals with well-known brands.\n\nBy the 2010s the use of licensing of artists in commercials had become an accepted part of the music industry, and even those who would previously have been considered part of the 1970s resistance to \"selling out\" have been used in advertising products, such as former Sex Pistols frontman John Lydon advertising Country Life butter and Iggy Pop endorsing car insurance. Consequently, it has been suggested that the acceptance of music in advertising is generational, as younger listeners are comfortable with the relationship to the point of indifference whilst those who have seen the industry evolve still reject it.\n\nAnother definition of \"selling out\" refers to putting aside musical quality or original intentions in favor of commercial success, where a distinction is made for those who achieve success without changing their original sound. The difference between the two is often subjective. Whilst artists may change their musical direction for commercial reasons, such as pressure from major labels who require songs to appeal to mass markets, a change in sound may also be part of a natural progression of creative maturity.\n\nAn example of artists being accused of \"selling out\" is the band Metallica, whose 1991 eponymous album has been considered the turning point in the band's musical direction; the band members were called the \"poster boys for musical un-integrity\" after the band attempted to sue fans who were downloading their music through Napster. The album, known as \"The Black Album\", saw critics and Bob Rock, the album’s producer, acknowledged that there was a move away from the band's previous sound. Rock claimed that the change stemmed from the band’s desire to \"make the leap to the big, big leagues\", whilst some fans blamed Rock himself, going as far to eventually create an internet petition demanding the band cut their ties with him. However, other fans did not consider the change in sound to be significant enough to be considered \"selling out,\" and others accepted the change as part of a natural evolution of the band’s style. Ultimately \"The Black Album\" became the band’s most commercially successful release, going 16x platinum. The differing reaction by fans to the album demonstrates the difficulty in labelling an artist as a \"sellout\" objectively.\n\n\"Poseur\" is a pejorative term, often used in the punk, heavy metal, hip hop, and goth subcultures, to describe a person who copies the dress, speech, and/or mannerisms of a group or subculture, generally for attaining acceptability within the group or for popularity among various other groups, yet who is deemed not to share or understand the values or philosophy of the subculture.\nWhile this perceived inauthenticity is viewed with scorn and contempt by members of the subculture, the definition of the term and to whom it should be applied is subjective. While the term is most associated with the 1970s- and 1980s-era punk and hardcore subculture, English use of the term originates in the late 19th century. A hardcore punk band that signed a lucrative contract with a major label would probably be labelled as poseurs.\n\nIn film and television \"selling out\" refers to compromising the content of produced media, primarily for financial reasons; for example, introducing product placement.\n\nProduct placement, or embedded marketing, is the placement of brands or products in media in order to advertise, and has been in television from almost the very beginning, but has increased with introduction of devices such as DVRs which allow viewers, and therefore consumers, to fast-forward through adverts. It has been suggested that the idea that product placement is a form of selling out is Anglocentric, as American television shows such as \"American Idol\" and \"Celebrity Apprentice\" recorded over 500 examples of brand integration in 2011 according to Nielsen.\n\nStand-up comedians occasionally face accusations of \"selling out.\" Comedians who start out in comedy clubs might often use foul language and blue humor in their routines. A comic who alters his or her routine by \"sugar-coating\" his language and using less-offensive material to obtain mainstream success may be accused of \"selling out.\"\n\nGeorge Carlin was accused of being a \"sellout\" for appearing in television commercials for MCI's 10-10-220. Carlin had previously spoken of his dislike for MCI's commercials in his 1996 album \"Back in Town\". In his 1999 album \"You Are All Diseased\", which contains rants against advertising and business, Carlin admits the dichotomy but makes no attempt to explain himself, stating, \"You're just gonna have to figure that shit out on your own.\" In interviews, Carlin revealed he appeared in the advertisements to help pay off a large tax debt to the IRS.\n\nComedian/actress Janeane Garofalo has described herself as a \"sellout\" based on her participation with the TV show \"24\" playing Janis Gold. Garofalo initially turned down the role because of the way the show depicted torture scenes, however changed her mind later on, saying in an interview, “Being unemployed and being flattered that someone wanted to work with me outweighed my stance [on torture].” Garofalo admitted to \"selling out\" for losing weight in order to gain more acting work.\n\nAn artist may also be accused of \"selling out\" after changes in artistic direction. This conclusion is often due to the perception that the reason for the artist changing artistic style or direction was simply potential material gain. This ignores other causes of artistic development, which may lead an artist in new directions from those that attracted their original fans. Artists' improvements in musical skill or change in taste may also account for the change.\n\nOther times, artists (including those with politically oriented messages) resent the term on the grounds that the perceived desire for material gain is simply a result of the band seeking to expand its message. To such artists, \"not\" going mainstream or signing to a bigger label to avoid \"selling out\" prevents them from addressing a wider audience, regardless of whether or not there is any real artistic change, and arbitrarily hampers the artists' course of mainstream success. Such an accusation, then, assumes that mainstream success must be against the artists' original intentions. For example, when questioned about signing to a major label, Rage Against the Machine answered \"We're not interested in preaching to just the converted. It's great to play abandoned squats run by anarchists, but it's also great to be able to reach people with a revolutionary message, people from Granada Hills to Stuttgart\". Similarly, when confronted with the accusation of \"selling out\" in 2001, Mike Dirnt of Green Day said:\n\"If there's a formula to selling out, I think every band in the world would be doing it,\" he said. \"The fact that you write good songs and you sell too many of them, if everybody in the world knew how to do that they'd do it. It's not something we chose to do...The fact was we got to a point that we were so big that tons of people were showing up at punk-rock clubs, and some clubs were even getting shut down because too many were showing up. We had to make a decision: either break up or remove ourselves from that element. And I'll be damned if I was going to flip fucking burgers. I do what I do best. Selling out is compromising your musical intention and I don't even know how to do that.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "7511422", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7511422", "title": "Sixth Party System", "text": "Sixth Party System\n\nExperts have debated whether national politics in the United States of America is in the era of a Sixth Party System, or whether the Fifth Party System continues in some form to the present. Opinions also differ on when a Sixth Party System may have begun, with suggested dates ranging from the 1960s to the 1990s. Maisel and Brewer (2011) argue that the consensus among specialists is that the Sixth System is underway based on American electoral politics since the 1960s:\nThe perceived Sixth Party System is characterized by an electoral shift from the electoral coalitions of the Fifth Party System during the New Deal: the Republican Party became the dominant party in the South, rural areas, and suburbs; while the Democratic Party increasingly started to assemble a coalition of African-Americans, Latinos and white urban Progressives. A critical factor was the major transformation of the political system in the Reagan Era or Age of Reagan of the 1980s and beyond, led by Ronald Reagan.\n\nHowever, no clear disciplinary consensus has emerged pinpointing an electoral event responsible for shifting presidential and congressional control since the Great Depression of the 1930s, when the Fifth Party System emerged. Much of the work published on the subject has come from political scientists explaining the events of their time either as the imminent breakup of the Fifth Party System, and the installation of a new one; or in terms of such transition taking place some time ago. Other current writing on the Fifth Party System expresses admiration of its longevity: the first four systems lasted about 30 to 40 years each, which would have implied that the early twenty-first century should see a Seventh Party System. It is also possible, as argued in Jensen (1981) and elsewhere, that the party system has given way, not to a new party system, but to a period of dealignment in politics. Previous party systems ended with the dominant party losing two consecutive House elections by large margins, and also losing a presidential election coinciding with or immediately following (in 1896) the second House election—decisive electoral evidence of political realignment. Such a shift took place between 2006 and 2008 in favor of the Democrats, but the Republicans won the elections of 2010 by their biggest landslide since 1946 and finished the 2014 elections with their greatest number of House seats since 1928.\n\nOpinions differ on when the Sixth Party System began, varying from elections of 1966–68 or the 1980s when both parties began to become more unified and partisan, to the 1990s over cultural divisions.\n\nCraig argues for the 1972 elections, when Richard Nixon won a 49-state landslide. He notes that, \"There seems to be consensus on the appropriate name for the sixth party system... Changes that occurred during the 1960s were so great and so pervasive that they cry out to be called a critical-election period. The new system of candidate-centered parties is so distinct and so portentous that one can no longer deny its existence or its character.\"\n\n\"The Princeton Encyclopedia of American Political History\" dates the start in 1980, with the election of Reagan and a Republican Senate.\n\nOne possible explanation for the lack of an agreed upon beginning of the Sixth Party System is that there was a brief period of dealignment immediately preceding it. Dealignment is a trend or process whereby a large portion of the electorate abandons its previous partisan affiliation without developing a new one to replace it.\n\nA period of dealignment would certainly explain the voting patterns of the Southern states during this time period. In 1968, Richard Nixon barely eked out a popular vote victory in the former Confederacy with 35% of the vote. In comparison, George Wallace and Hubert Humphrey received 34% and 31%, respectively. In 1972, Republicans won the South in a landslide, only to see the region swing dramatically back into the Democratic column four years later when native son Jimmy Carter ran for president. It was not until the Reagan Revolution in 1980 that the South became a Republican stronghold on the presidential level, though Democratic Arkansas Governor Bill Clinton had some success in the South in his two election victories.\n\nAssuming the Sixth Party System spanned from 1981 to 2017, it would corroborate and explain a number of items. First, it would fit Walter Dean Burnham's argument for a 36-year \"cycle\" of realignments. In 1980, George H. W. Bush was first elected to serve as vice-president under Ronald Reagan. The Reagan-Bush ticket was re-elected in a landslide in 1984. Bush went on to win the presidency in his own right in 1988, as did his son, George W. Bush, in 2000 and 2004. \n\nBetween the Bushes was the presidency of Bill Clinton, who was elected and re-elected in 1992 and 1996, respectively.\n\nWith support for the 1960s Civil Rights Movement growing, Richard Nixon devised the so-called \"Southern strategy\" to win the 1968 elections for himself and other Republican candidates in the South, ending a century of Democratic dominance in the region. Nixon also won the 1972 re-elections in landslide. The Watergate scandal forced Nixon to resign, and Jimmy Carter defeated Nixon's Vice President, Gerald Ford, in 1976.\n\nRonald Reagan produced a major realignment with his 1980 and 1984 landslide elections. The Democrats had control of Congress with two breaks since 1932. The Republican Party took control of the Senate in 1980 and both houses in 1994. It built a strong base in the white South, while losing the Northeastern base of the liberal and moderate Republicans.\n\nReagan's economic policies (dubbed \"Reaganomics\") and the implementation of the Economic Recovery Tax Act of 1981 called for sharply reduced federal budgets, sharply reduced federal regulation of businesses, and sharp cuts in the federal income tax rates, the latter two of which were partially achieved. The top marginal income tax rate on high incomes was lowered from 70% to 28% over the course of seven years, with regulations on cable communication, shipping, and savings and loan associations being reduced.\n\nThe federal fuel tax and Federal Insurance Contributions Act tax were both increased, and the Tax Reform Act of 1986, while reducing income taxes on upper-income individuals, increased taxes on lower-income individuals, capital gains, and corporate income. Regulation of firearms was increased and a federal standard for regulations on Indian gaming was created. Annual federal spending increased from about $1.6 trillion in 1981 to about $2.1 trillion in 1988. Increased federal spending, coupled with major taxation legislation that reduced tax revenue, caused the federal government's public debt to increase from 31.9% of gross domestic product (GDP) in 1981 to 49.8% of GDP in 1988, with a tripling of the federal government's nominal debt during that time period. Following the early 1980s recession, economic growth and inflation maintained an average of about 4% per annum for the remainder of the decade, and the unemployment rate gradually decreased to nearly 5% by the end of the decade.\n\nAs the Cold War drew to a close, George H W Bush promised to as he won the 1988 election, but broke his promise in office in the 1990 federal budget. This led to Ross Perot's candidacy in the 1992 and 1996, as a main talking point of his campaign was balancing the federal budget. But Bill Clinton won both the elections, and even managed a surplus towards the end of his second term. However, despite this, Clinton's Vice President Al Gore lost in the disputed 2000 election to George W Bush, losing in the official count of Florida as well as Clinton and Gore's home states of Arkansas and Tennessee. Gore attempted to arrange a recount of the controversial ballot in Florida, but this was ultimately struck down by the Supreme Court.\n\nSome of the characteristics which this era displays are:\n\nHarris and Tichenor argue:\n\nNew voter coalitions included the emergence of the \"religious right\"—a combination of right-wing Catholics and Evangelical Protestants united on opposition to abortion and gay marriage. Southern white voters started voting for Republican presidential candidates in the 1960s, and Republican state and local candidates in the 1990s.\n\nNew rule changes involved campaign financing, as very large sums were raised and candidates spent much of their energy focused on raising money behind the scenes. New campaign technologies involved the Internet, but television advertising continued to grow in importance, overshadowing the Internet as a campaign tool. Howard Dean in 2004 demonstrated that the Internet could be used to organize and finance a campaign, and this model was followed by most of the candidates for the 2008 election, with Barack Obama the most successful. In 2016, Bernie Sanders also financed his campaign heavily from small-dollar donations generated online. \n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "10260572", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10260572", "title": "Speed learning", "text": "Speed learning\n\nSpeed learning is a collection of methods of learning which attempt to attain higher rates of learning without unacceptable reduction of comprehension or retention. It is closely related to speed reading, but encompasses other methods of learning, such as observation, listening, conversation, questioning, and reflection.\n\nThe general approach is to use procedures or a sequence of techniques that have been shown to provide a more efficient path to attaining the same goal. Some of the techniques have existed since ancient times (e.g. Mnemonics) whilst others are a result of more recent scientific research (e.g. Forgetting Curves).\nPsychologists and educational specialists have long sought methods for improving not just the quality of learning, the comprehension and retention of knowledge, but the rate at which knowledge can be acquired, especially in an age in which the amount of information people need to deal with is growing rapidly and threatening to overwhelm them.\n\nThe limited \"channel capacity\" of human individuals has also led to investigation of rapid knowledge acquisition and appropriate dissemination of it by organizations. This is an important part of the science of management. It generally involves dividing the knowledge-acquisition effort among multiple individuals, each of whom becomes a \"subject matter expert\" on some specialized area of the larger topic, then having them extract and abstract the more important findings and recommendations from that investigation into reports to and discussions with others in the organization. This filtering process necessarily involves some loss of detail, but if done well should enable the organization or its managers to make high-quality, error-avoiding decisions. On the other hand, the loss of detail as abstraction of information ascends a hierarchical organization can lead to distortion that results in bad decision-making.\n\n"}
{"id": "604652", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=604652", "title": "Strip map and sample", "text": "Strip map and sample\n\nStrip map and sample is a method of archaeological excavation applied in the United Kingdom to preserve archaeological remains by record in the face of development threat. It involves machine stripping of an area, plotting observed features onto a site plan and then partially excavating those features (sampling).\n\nStrip map and sample is undertaken when a site is to be destroyed by development and no satisfactory method of preserving archaeological remains \"in situ\" can be devised or adequate funding and time has not been factored into development project planning to allow for a full archaeological investigation.\n\n"}
{"id": "1244283", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1244283", "title": "Syntagma (linguistics)", "text": "Syntagma (linguistics)\n\nIn linguistics, a syntagma is an elementary constituent segment within a text. Such a segment can be a phoneme, a word, a grammatical phrase, a sentence, or an event within a larger narrative structure, depending on the level of analysis. Syntagmatic analysis involves the study of relationships (rules of combination) among syntagmas.\n\nAt the lexical level, syntagmatic structure in a language is the combination of words according to the rules of syntax for that language. For example, English uses determiner + adjective + noun, e.g. \"the big house\". Another language might use determiner + noun + adjective (Spanish ) and therefore have a different syntagmatic structure.\n\nAt a higher level, narrative structures feature a realistic temporal flow guided by tension and relaxation; thus, for example, events or rhetorical figures may be treated as syntagmas of epic structures.\n\nSyntagmatic structure is often contrasted with paradigmatic structure. In semiotics, \"syntagmatic analysis\" is analysis of syntax or surface structure (syntagmatic structure), rather than paradigms as in paradigmatic analysis. Analysis is often achieved through commutation tests.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "34803711", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34803711", "title": "The Archaeology of Ritual and Magic", "text": "The Archaeology of Ritual and Magic\n\nThe Archaeology of Ritual and Magic is an archaeological study of the material evidence for ritual and magical practices in Europe, containing a particular emphasis on London and South East England. It was written by the English archaeologist Ralph Merrifield, the former deputy director of the Museum of London, and first published by B.T. Batsford in 1987.\n\nMerrifield opens \"The Archaeology of Ritual and Magic\" by discussing how archaeologists have understood magic and ritual practices in past societies, opining that on the whole it had been a neglected area of study. Looking at the archaeological evidence for ritual activity in the pre-Roman Iron Age and the Roman Iron Age of Britain, he discusses animal and human sacrifice, as well as the offering of votive deposits in rivers and other bodies of water. He moves on to explore the rituals surrounding death and burial, suggesting areas where this ritual activity is visible in the burial record of multiple societies. Merrifield goes on to discuss the archaeological evidence for ritual practices in Christian Europe, highlighting areas of ritual continuance from earlier pagan periods, in particular the deposition of metal goods in water. Looking at the evidence for foundation deposits in European buildings that likely had magico-religious purposes, he then looks at several examples of written charms and spells which have survived in the archaeological record.\n\nUpon publication, \"The Archaeology of Ritual and Magic\" received predominantly positive reviews in academic peer-reviewed journals such as \"Folklore\" and \"The Antiquaries Journal\". In ensuing years, the book has been widely cited by scholars as an influential and pioneering text in the study of the archaeology of ritual and magic.\n\nRalph Merrifield (1913–1995) was born and raised in Brighton, and, following an education at Varndean Grammar School, he worked at Brighton Museum. Gaining a London External Degree in anthropology in 1935, he developed a lifelong interest in the religious and magical beliefs of England. After serving in the Royal Air Force during the Second World War, he returned to working at Brighton Museum, but in 1950 was appointed Assistant Keeper of the Guildhall Museum in the City of London. Over a six-month period in 1956 and 1957, he was stationed in Accra, Ghana, where he worked at the National Museum of Ghana, organising the collection in preparation for the country's independence from the British Empire in March 1957. Returning to the Guildhall Museum, Merrifield compiled the first detailed study of Roman London for 35 years, which was published as \"The Roman City of London\" (1965). Following the creation of the Museum of London in 1975, he became its Deputy Director, a post which he held until his retirement in 1978.\n\nIn the preface of \"The Archaeology of Ritual and Magic\", Merrifield noted that the book's bias was to the archaeology of London, and that this was particularly evident in its use of illustrations.\nHe dedicated the book to the memory of H.S. Toms, the former Curator of Brighton Museum and a one-time assistant to the archaeologist Augustus Pitt Rivers; in his dedication, Merrifield noted that Toms had been his \"first mentor in archaeology and folk studies\".\n\nIn his preface, Merrifield noted that while archaeologists studying prehistoric periods have paid increasing attention to the evidence for ritual and magic in the archaeological record, their counterparts working in later historical periods have failed to follow their lead. Presenting this book as a rectifier, he outlines his intentions and the study's limitations.\n\nChapter one, \"Ritual and the archaeologist\", begins by describing the ritual deposits from the pre-Roman Iron Age sites of Cadbury Castle and Danebury, hillforts in southern Britain. Merrifield laments the fact that the majority of archaeologists, particularly those studying literate, historical periods, have avoided ritual explanations for unusual phenomenon in the archaeological record; he believes that they exhibit a \"ritual phobia\". He contrasts this view with that of those archaeologists studying the Neolithic and Bronze Age Britain, who have widely accepted the ritual uses of chambered tombs and stone circles. He specifies particular definitions for words such as \"ritual\", \"religion\" and \"superstition\", arguing that such terms must be used with precision by archaeologists. Offering a case study, he describes how Neolithic stone axes were adopted as amulets or talismans in the later Roman Iron Age onward in Britain, and that as such archaeologists should expect to find them in non-prehistoric contexts.\n\nIn the second chapter, \"Offerings to earth and water in Pre-Roman and Roman Times\", Merrifield explores the various forms of archaeological evidence for ritual deposits in the pre-Roman Iron Age and the Roman Iron Age of Britain. He provides an overview of the evidence for animal and human sacrifice, as well as that in support of ritual offerings in bodies of water such as the River Thames. Merrifield deals with votive deposits on land, in particular looking at the evidence for deposition in ditches, shafts and wells. He rounds off the chapter by examining evidence for Iron Age rituals that took place at the commencement and termination of building constructions. Chapter three, \"Rituals of Death\", deals with the religious rituals accompanying death and burial, and their visibility in the archaeological record. It explains the three main ways which human communities have dealt with the corpses of the dead: through exposing them to elements and scavengers, through inhumation and through cremation. Looing at beliefs surrounding the afterlife, Merrifield discusses ways in which these beliefs might be visible in the archaeological record, such as through the deposition of grave goods. Discussing evidence for rituals of separation through which the deceased is separated from the world of the living, including those that deal with the decapitation of the body, Merrifield then looks at the effect of Christianity on burials in Europe, arguing that it brought a new intimacy with the dead through the collection of relics, which was in contrast to the pagan beliefs of the Roman Empire, which portrayed the deceased as unclean.\n\nThe fourth chapter, \"From Paganism to Christianity\", explores the continuing practice of ritual in Christian Europe. Discussing the early Roman Catholic Church's demonisation of pagan deities, Merrifield states that the Church continued propagating a form of polytheism through the \"cult of the blessed dead\", the veneration of saints and martyrs, throughout the Middle Ages. Discussing the ritual use of Christian relics, he also looks at votive offerings that were presented in a Christian context at shrines and churches, paying particular reference to the tradition of offering bent coins to shrines in Late Medieval England. Examining the construction of churches on earlier pagan ritual sites, he deals with evidence for the destruction of pagan statues by the early Christians.\n\nChapter five, \"Survivals, revivals and reinterpretations\", continues Merrifield's exploration of ritual practices in Christian Europe. He examines Late- and Post-Medieval items that have been deposited in rivers, including swords and pilgrimage souvenirs, speculating that their deposition might represent a survival from the pagan tradition of casting votive offerings into water. He speculates that the contemporary practice of throwing a coin into a fountain for good luck is a further survival of the custom. He then discusses the evidence for ritual foundation deposits under buildings, noting the widespread Medieval deposition of an animal's head or jaw in a construction's foundations, presumably for protective magical purposes. Proceeding to deal with the Late- and Post-Medieval deposition of pots under foundations, he looks at their place in churches, where it was believed that they aided the acoustics. Continuing with this theme, he discusses the British folk custom of burying a horse's head under the floor to improve a building's acoustics, speculating as to whether this was a survival of the pagan foundation deposit custom. Rounding off the chapter, Merrifield examines at magical items that have been intentionally placed in the walls, chimneys and roofs of buildings in Britain, in particular the widespread use of dead cats and old shoes.\n\nIn the sixth chapter, \"Written spells and charms\", Merrifield discusses the use of the written word in magical contexts. Highlighting archaeological examples from the ancient Graeco-Roman world, he looks at inscriptions on lead tablets that were buried in cemeteries and amphitheatres, both places associated with the dead. Moving on to the use of magic squares, Merrifield highlights various examples of the Sator square in archaeological contexts, before also discussing squares that contained numerical data with astrological significance. He rounds off the chapter with an examination of Post-Medieval curses and charms containing the written word, citing examples that have been found by archaeologists across Britain, hidden inside various parts of buildings. In the seventh chapter, \"Charms against witchcraft\", he deals with archaeological evidence for a variety of Early Modern and Modern British spells designed to ward off malevolent witchcraft. After briefly discussing the role of holed stone charms, he looks at the evidence for witch bottles, making reference to their relation to beliefs about witches' familiars. Proceeding to focus on 19th- and 20th-century examples, Merrifield discusses the case of James Murrell, an English cunning man, and his involvement with the witch bottle tradition. Merrifield's final chapter, \"The ritual of superstition: recognition and potential for study\", provides an overview of the entire book, highlighting the evidence of ritual continuity from pre-Christian periods to the present day. Pointing out what he sees as areas of further exploration for archaeologists, he calls for \"systematic investigation\" of the subject.\n\n\"The Archaeology of Ritual and Magic\" was reviewed by John Hutchings for the \"Folklore\" journal, the published arm of The Folklore Society. He highlighted how the work would be of benefit to folklorists, by putting various charms then in museum exhibits – such as dead cats, buried shoes and witch bottles – into the wider context of ritual activity. He opined that it was \"a little disappointing\" that the examples were almost all from London and the Home Counties, but described the book as \"lucidly written, carefully argued, and well illustrated.\"\n\nIn a short review for \"The Antiquaries Journal\", the historian of religion Hilda Ellis Davidson praised the \"cautious and balanced arguments\" of Merrifield's work. She opined that it should be read by every archaeologist as a corrective to what she thought was their widespread ignorance of folklore, noting that the wide array of evidence for ritual behaviour in the archaeological record would surprise \"many readers\".\n\nWriting Merrifield's obituary for \"The Independent\" newspaper, the Museum of London archaeologist Peter Marsden described \"The Archaeology of Ritual and Magic\" as \"a masterly study of an unusual subject.\" The importance of Merrifield's book was discussed by the Englishman Brian Hoggard, an independent researcher who authored a 2004 academic paper entitled \"The archaeology of counter-witchcraft and popular magic\". Being published in the \"Beyond the Witch Trials\" anthology, edited by the historians Owen Davies and Willem de Blécourt, Hoggard recounted that \"The Archaeology of Ritual and Magic\" was the \"notable exception\" to a trend in which archaeological studies of magic were restricted to small journals, magazines and newspaper articles.\n\nThe influential nature of Merrifield's work was also recognised by the Medieval archaeologist Roberta Gilchrist of the University of Reading. In an academic paper published in a 2008 edition of the \"Medieval Archaeology\" journal, Gilchrist referenced Merrifield's study, noting that it offered a \"rare contribution\" to the archaeology of ritual and magic in Britain. In particular she highlighted his belief that many archaeologists dealing with literate cultures exhibited a \"ritual phobia\" as accurate.\n\n"}
{"id": "7529737", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7529737", "title": "The Bill Hall Trio", "text": "The Bill Hall Trio\n\nThe Bill Hall Trio was a musical comedy act originally consisting of Bill Hall (violin), Johnny Mulgrew (double bass) and Spike Milligan (guitar). They met through the Combined Services Entertainment programme during World War II and the trio continued in its original form until 1947/8. After Milligan left, the Bill Hall Trio obtained a new guitarist (who according to Mulgrew was like George Formby) and other new members whenever old members left or died. The group went on until the death (from throat cancer]) of Johnny Mulgrew in the 1980s. (Johnny Mulgrew died on 1 August 1985, as Peace Work was published in 1992, and in it Milligan stated that when Johnny Mulgrew died 6 years ago, the trio came to an end.). In an interview with Tony Brown in 1970, Spike mentions that Bill Hall and Johnny Mulgrew were already dead then. \"The trio I worked with was the Bill Hall Trio—which became Hall, Norman and Ladd eventually. Bill Hall died from consumption; Johnny Mulgrew who used to play bass with the Ambrose Octet before the war, he died—also from consumption. I think the act is still going.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "3064983", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3064983", "title": "The Leiden school", "text": "The Leiden school\n\nThe Leiden school is a school of thought in linguistics that models languages as memes or benign neurological parasites, and tries to use rigorous mathematical tools borrowed by analogy from biological evolution to model the origin and spread of language in general and specific languages in particular.\n\nIt is based at the University of Leiden, and its chief proponents are George van Driem, Frederik Kortlandt, and Jeroen Wiedenhof. The Leiden School has a significant overlap in personnel with the Himalayan Languages Project.\n\nThe Leiden school of linguistics should not be confused with the current research institute of linguistics at Leiden University, the Leiden University Centre for Linguistics (LUCL).\n\n"}
{"id": "406281", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=406281", "title": "The Two Cultures", "text": "The Two Cultures\n\nThe Two Cultures is the first part of an influential 1959 Rede Lecture by British scientist and novelist C. P. Snow. Its thesis was that \"the intellectual life of the whole of western society\" was split into the titular two cultures – namely the sciences and the humanities – and that this was a major hindrance to solving the world's problems.\n\nThe Two Cultures and the Scientific Revolution (1959) was a published version of the lectures in book form. \n\nThe talk was delivered 7 May 1959 in the Senate House, Cambridge, and subsequently published as \"The Two Cultures and the Scientific Revolution\". The lecture and book expanded upon an article by Snow published in the \"New Statesman\" of 6 October 1956, also entitled \"The Two Cultures\". Published in book form, Snow's lecture was widely read and discussed on both sides of the Atlantic, leading him to write a 1963 follow-up, \"The Two Cultures: And a Second Look: An Expanded Version of The Two Cultures and the Scientific Revolution\".\n\nSnow's position can be summed up by an often-repeated part of the essay:\nIn 2008, \"The Times Literary Supplement\" included \"The Two Cultures and the Scientific Revolution\" in its list of the 100 books that most influenced Western public discourse since the Second World War.\n\nSnow's Rede Lecture condemned the British educational system as having, since the Victorian era, over-rewarded the humanities (especially Latin and Greek) at the expense of scientific and engineering education, despite such achievements having been so decisive in winning the Second World War for the Allies. This in practice deprived British elites (in politics, administration, and industry) of adequate preparation to manage the modern scientific world. By contrast, Snow said, German and American schools sought to prepare their citizens equally in the sciences and humanities, and better scientific teaching enabled these countries' rulers to compete more effectively in a scientific age. Later discussion of \"The Two Cultures\" tended to obscure Snow's initial focus on differences between British systems (of both schooling and social class) and those of competing countries.\n\nThe literary critic F. R. Leavis called Snow a \"public relations man\" for the scientific establishment in his essay \"Two Cultures?: The Significance of C. P. Snow\", published in \"The Spectator\". The article attracted a great deal of negative correspondence in the magazine's letters pages.\n\nIn his 1963 book Snow appeared to revise his thinking and was more optimistic about the potential of a mediating third culture. This concept was later picked up in . Introducing the reprinted , Stefan Collini has argued that the passage of time has done much to reduce the cultural divide Snow noticed, but has not removed it entirely.\n\nStephen Jay Gould's \"The Hedgehog, the Fox, and the Magister's Pox\" provides a different perspective. Assuming the dialectical interpretation, it argues that Snow's concept of \"two cultures\" is not only off the mark, it is a damaging and short-sighted viewpoint, and that it has perhaps led to decades of unnecessary fence-building.\n\nSimon Critchley, in \"Continental Philosophy: A Very Short Introduction\" suggests:\nThat is, Critchley argues that what Snow said represents a resurfacing of a discussion current in the mid-nineteenth century. Critchley describes the Leavis contribution to the making of a controversy as \"a vicious \"ad hominem\" attack\"; going on to describe the debate as \"a familiar clash in English cultural history\" citing also T. H. Huxley and Matthew Arnold.\n\nIn his opening address at the Munich Security Conference in January 2014, the Estonian president Toomas Hendrik Ilves said that the current problems related to security and freedom in cyberspace are the culmination of absence of dialogue between \"the two cultures\": \"Today, bereft of understanding of fundamental issues and writings in the development of liberal democracy, computer geeks devise ever better ways to track people... simply because they can and it's cool. Humanists on the other hand do not understand the underlying technology and are convinced, for example, that tracking meta-data means the government reads their emails.\"\n\nContrasting scientific and humanistic knowledge is a repetition of the \"Methodenstreit\" of 1890 German universities. A quarrel in 1911 between Benedetto Croce and Giovanni Gentile on the one hand and Federigo Enriques on the other one is believed to have had enduring effects in the separation of the two cultures in Italy and to the predominance of the views of (objective) idealism over those of (logical) positivism. In the social sciences it is also commonly proposed as the quarrel of positivism versus interpretivism.\n\n\n\n"}
