{"id": "45249984", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45249984", "title": "Andrea Nye", "text": "Andrea Nye\n\nAndrea Nye (born 1939) is a feminist philosopher and writer. Nye is a Professor Emerita at the University of Wisconsin–Whitewater for the Philosophy and Religious Studies Department and an active member of the Women's Studies Department. In 1992, Nye received the University of Wisconsin–Whitewater Award for Outstanding Research.\n\nAndrea Nye was born on October 22, 1939, in Philadelphia to attorney Hamilton Connor and home-maker Florence Deans. Nye received a B. A. in philosophy from Radcliffe College (Radcliffe Institute for Advanced Study) in 1961 and a Ph.D. in philosophy from the University of Oregon in 1977. Nye has been affiliated with the University of Wisconsin—Whitewater for decades; first as an assistant professor from 1978 to 1985, then as an associate professor from 1985–1990, followed by a position as a professor of philosophy from 1990–2002. Nye has been a professor emeritus for the philosophy and religious studies department since 2002. Andrea Nye is also a member of the Liberal Studies Division at the Boston Conservatory teaching interdisciplinary courses in the Humanities.\n\nNye's early work in philosophy of language included a thesis on private language and a monograph on the history of logic from a feminist perspective. In subsequent work, Nye turned more specifically to issues related to gender in language, the place of women in the history of philosophy, and feminist theory. Reviving the work of neglected or misinterpreted women thinkers was of special interest in later work, including translations and commentary on the letters of Elisabeth of the Palatinate to René Descartes (\"The Princess and the Philosopher\"), the political thought of Rosa Luxemburg, Hannah Arendt, and Simone Weil (\"Philosophia\") and most recently, Diotima’s teaching on erotic desire in Plato’s Symposium (hl)(\"Socrates and Diotima\").\n\n\n"}
{"id": "42353069", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42353069", "title": "Ashitha (writer)", "text": "Ashitha (writer)\n\nAshitha (Malayalam: അഷിത) is a Malayalam-language short story writer and poet from Kerala, India. Her literary works are known for the sensitive portrayal of life.\n\nAshitha was born in Pazhayannur in Thrissur district of Kerala state. She completed her schooling from Delhi and Bombay and obtained her graduation and master's degree in English literature from Maharajas College, Ernakulam. She is married to K. V. Ramankutty and they have a daughter, Uma.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "26331217", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26331217", "title": "Attensity", "text": "Attensity\n\nAttensity provides social analytics and engagement applications for social customer relationship management (social CRM). Attensity's text analytics software applications extract facts, relationships and sentiment from unstructured data, which comprise approximately 85% of the information companies store electronically.\n\nAttensity was founded in 2000. An early investor in Attensity was In-Q-Tel, which funds technology to support the missions of the US Government and the broader DOD. InTTENSITY, an independent company that has combined Inxight with Attensity Software (the only joint development project that combines two InQTel funded software packages), is the exclusive distributor and outlet for Attensity in the Federal Market. In 2009, Attensity Corp., then based in Palo Alto, merged with Germany's Empolis and Living-e AG to form Attensity Group. In 2010, Attensity Group acquired Biz360, Inc., a provider of social media monitoring and market intelligence solutions. In early 2012, Attensity Group divested itself of the Empolis business unit via a management buyout; that unit currently conducts business under its pre-merger name.\n\nAttensity Group is a closely held private company. Its majority shareholder is Aeris Capital, a private Swiss investment office advising a high net-worth individual and his charitable foundation. Foundation Capital, Granite Ventures, and Scale Venture Partners were among Biz360's investors and thus became shareholders in Attensity Group.\n\nIn February, 2016, Attensity's IP assets were acquired by InContact, and Attensity closed its doors for good.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "54183740", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54183740", "title": "Beelinguapp", "text": "Beelinguapp\n\nBeelinguapp is a language-learning mobile application. It works by showing a text to the user in two languages simultaneously, allowing the users to use their native language as a reference. It works also as an audio book, users listen to a recording of a voice reading a text while at the same time a karaoke style animation moves through the text in both languages.The app offers different kinds of texts across 12 languages; with additional languages in development. Beelinguapp app is available on Android and iOS.\n\nBeelinguapp works under two concepts it calls \"Side by Side Reading\" and \"Karaoke Reading\". The \"Side by Side Reading\" shows the user a text in a split screen in two languages side by side, the idea being that the user reads a text in the language being practiced but can always use their native language as a reference. \"Karaoke Reading\" means that the audio will be playing while the user is reading and a karaoke-style animation will be shown in both the learning and reference languages.\n\nBeelinguapp's creator, David Montiel, born in Mexico and located in Berlin, Germany, had been having difficulties reading texts and listening to audio books in German. When confronted by a word he still did not know, he realized it was too much of a problem to look for it in the dictionary and figure out which of the definitions suited better in the text. This is how the idea of a text in two languages simultaneously was born.\nOne year after its conception, in September 2016, Beelinguapp went live.\n\nIn December 2016, Beelinguapp opened a Kickstarter campaign to receive financing for the development of the iOS version of the app and the translation of more stories. By January 2017 the campaign was successful and the development of the iOS version started.\nIn February, 2017 it was featured in the Huffington Post as one of the best 10 Kickstarter project of 2016.\nBeelinguapp has been featured in Google Play's \"Editor's Choice\" section, where they recommended 5 language learning apps in the market from around the world and has been named in news articles and blog posts among the best tools to learn Spanish and German. In May, 2017, Beelinguapp was certified by Mike Sharples and the Educational App Store and added to the Educational App Store Catalog. On June 6, 2017, The Mexican newspaper El Universal wrote a featured article about Beelinguapp in both the online site and its printed version. On June, 2017 it was selected by Google Play as an \"Editor's Choice\" app.\n\nBeelinguapp has several texts of different kinds, such as fairy tales, science texts, excerpts from novels, short stories, popular stories, and every week more texts are added. Some of these texts can be unlocked by in-app purchases or by subscribing to the service.\n"}
{"id": "52929553", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52929553", "title": "Bible translations into Breton", "text": "Bible translations into Breton\n\nJean-François Le Gonidec translated the Bible into Breton language. After the Catholic Church refused its publication it was eventually published in 1827 under the auspices of the British and Foreign Bible Society, who had been lobbied to support Le Gonidec by the champion of Welsh language publications, Thomas Price (known as \"Carnhuanawc\"). The resulting \"Protestant\" translation was placed on the Index of Banned Books by the Catholic Church.\n\nThe Old Testament of Le Gonideg was edited after his death by Editions Prud'hommes (Saint-Brieuc), printer of the Diocese of Saint-Brieuc, in 1866.\n\nA contemporary translation of the Old Testament is \"Testamant Kozh\", 5 volumes, translated from Hebrew into Breton by Pierre Le Gall and Job Lec'hvien. Editions An Tour-Tan (1980–1986).\n\nThe are several translations of the New Testament in Breton language.\n"}
{"id": "35409096", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35409096", "title": "Bible translations into Lao", "text": "Bible translations into Lao\n\nWork on translation of the Bible into the Lao language was begun by Swiss Brethren missionaries in 1902, producing three Gospels in 1908, then a translation of the full Bible in 1932. The US Bible Society has recently published a modem translation of the Bible into Lao.\n\n"}
{"id": "20027658", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20027658", "title": "Brand-new", "text": "Brand-new\n\nIn marketing, brand-new products or services are created and promoted under a new brand. This is a brand strategy alongside the brand stretching, line extension and multi-brands strategies. The brand-new strategy is focused on creating and introducing new products effectively. It involves researching a market to discover consumer needs that provide a market opportunity, generating ideas on how to approach that opportunity, and commercializing a product by communicating how the product covers the needs.\n\nCompanies may introduce brand-new products that replace previous products as a leading function for marketing, instead of making small incremental improvements on existing products.\n\n"}
{"id": "30786862", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30786862", "title": "Brand preference", "text": "Brand preference\n\nOne of the indicators of the strength of a brand in the hearts and minds of customers, brand preference represents which brands are preferred under assumptions of equality in price and availability.\n\nMeasures of brand preference attempt to quantify the impact of marketing activities in the hearts and minds of customers and potential customers. Higher brand preference usually indicates more revenues (sales) and profit, also making it an indicator of company financial performance.\n\nThere are at least three classes of methodologies to measure brand preference directly: \n\n\n"}
{"id": "820230", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=820230", "title": "Bridgehead", "text": "Bridgehead\n\nA bridgehead (or bridge-head) is the strategically important area of ground around the end of a bridge or other place of possible crossing over a body of water which at time of conflict is sought to be defended or taken over by the belligerent forces.\n\nBridgeheads typically exist for only a few days, the invading forces either being thrown back or expanding the bridgehead to create a secure defensive lodgement area, before breaking out into enemy territory, such as when the U.S. 9th Armored Division seized the Ludendorff Bridge at Remagen in 1945 during World War II. In some cases a bridgehead may exist for months.\n\n\"Bridgehead\" (French \"tête de pont\") is a High Middle Ages military term, which before the invention of cannons meant the military fortification that protects the end of a bridge. Like many older terms, the meaning of the word drifted with the passage of time, becoming used for something not exactly true to its initial usage.\n\nWith the introduction of cannons, the term was morphed to a generalized term for field fortifications lying some distance beyond the ends of the bridge that were emplaced to protect both the bridge and any troops crossing it to the far bank, so became in that era a term used when referring to both the fortifications and the small lodgement on the bank that was closest to the enemy. As the process of moving an army over bridges is slow and complicated, it is usually necessary to secure it from hostile interruption, and the works constituting the bridge-head must therefore be sufficiently far advanced to keep the enemy's artillery out of range of the bridges—hence as artillery grew in power, so did the size of the lodgements necessary. In addition, room is required for the troops to form up on the farther bank. Formerly, with short-range weapons, a bridgehead was often little more than a screen for the bridge itself, but modern conditions have rendered necessary far greater extensions of bridge defenses.\n\nThen armies and military formations grew, so needed more lodgement area to organize a force large enough to stage a break out against a determined enemy, and again the technical meaning of the term expanded, again referring to a large fortified area about at bridge end. With the advent of modern warfare capabilities, including long-range tube artillery and high-powered rifles with effective ranges measured in the thousands of yards (metres), the term of art again had to expand in area, but now morphed to be just an area defended and controlled by ample firepower, with or without constructed fortifications.\n\nThe term in colloquial usage refers to any kind of defended area that is extended into hostile territory – also called a foothold and sometimes the technically incorrect 'beachhead', which is frequently mistaken colloquially as synonymous terminology. The technical term refers in particular to the specific area on the far side of a defended river bank or a segment of a lake or riverine coastline held by the enemy forces, such as the Bridge at Remagen. The term is especially applied when such a territory is initially seized by an amphibious assault with the tactical intent of establishing a supply line across the geographic barrier feature to allow further operational manoeuvring. In that sense, it has much in common with the popular misconception of a beachhead.\n\n"}
{"id": "48866976", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48866976", "title": "C. H. Prahlada Rao", "text": "C. H. Prahlada Rao\n\nC.H. Prahlada Rao (13 Jan 1923 - 17 Feb 2002) was a writer in English and Kannada languages, a translator, literary critic and a free-lance journalist.\n\nBorn in Shimoga, Karnataka, India, Prahlada Rao lost his mother in his infancy and grew up in the loving care of his father C.R. Haunmantha Rao. He obtained his early education in Shimoga. His father died before Prahlada Rao could enter college. Having noticed Prahlada Rao's mastery of the English language, his teachers and relatives advised him to enter into the famous Maharaja's College in Mysore and earn a Bachelor of Arts degree. Prahlada Rao graduated in 1948 with a B.A. (honors) degree and three gold medals (Hindi, English, and Sociology). Although he wanted to pursue an M.A. degree in English, it was necessary for him to start earning a living. He came to Bangalore and took up a clerical position in Indian Coffee Board where he served for over three decades until retirement in 1981. During this tenure, Prahlada Rao also spent five years (1969–1974) in New Delhi. Prahlada Rao married Smt. Komala Bai. He had two children, Mohan C.P. and C.P. Ravikumar. Prahlada Rao was known for his simplicity, friendliness, straight talk and honesty. He was a voracious reader of books of all kinds, but his personal favourites were biographies and autobiographies.\n\nPrahlada Rao was influenced by the thought of Mahatma Gandhi even as a young student. He began his writing career as a free-lance journalist for Mysindia. Philip Spratt, the renowned editor of Mysindia, took a linking for this young writer and encouraged him.\n\n\"I wrote for MYSINDIA, the English weekly edited by Mr Philip Spratt,\" wrote C.H. Prahlada Rao \"He treated me with unusual kindness; to catch the issue going to press on Tuesday I had freedom to deliver copy to the composing room. Spratt reassured me that he sprinkled a few commas in my copy, which he could as well do in the proofs. He taught me the use of the comma.\"\n\nPrahlada Rao wrote for Mysindia until the shutters finally came down on the periodical. He would write about Kannada writers, books, and artists, big and small. Later, he began to write for Deccan Herald (Bangalore), Indian Express (Bangalore), Hindustan Times (Delhi), Evening News (Delhi), and The Hindu (Bangalore). His writing career spanned over six decades. He began to contribute book reviews for Deccan Herald, Kannada Prabha, and Indian Express. He was known for taking a firm stand and yet being constructive in his criticism. The Hindu requested him to write a series of articles on Kannada writers and drama artists. After retiring from active service, C.H. Prahlada Rao wrote a weekly column called \"Between You and Me\" for over 25 years. This column appeared every Monday in the Bangalore edition of The Hindu and enjoyed immense popularity. No topic was too small or too big to write about. He wrote about the problems faced by common people and used the power of his pen to solve them. He offered solutions to the problems of thousands of readers.\n\nC.H. Prahlada Rao had a supreme command on both the English and the Kannada languages. Sensing this unique gift, Prof. R.S. Mugali, a famed Kannada writer, approached him for a unique project of translating selected Kannada works from renowned Kannada poets for the benefit of the Non-Kannada reader. While Prof. Mugali selected the pieces, Prahlada Rao provided their translations. These translations appeared in the book \"An Anthology of Indian Literature\" edited by K. Santhanam. C.H. Prahlada Rao translated a number of books, which were published by India Book House, Rashtroththana Sahitya, Navakarnataka Publications among others.\n\nC.H. Prahlada Rao enjoyed a long and fruitful association with the All India Radio (Bangalore). Due to his ability to translate well from Kannada to English, he often received requests to translate the scripts of Kannada programs. He was also invited on numerous occasions to interview writers. He even conducted one of the episodes of a popular musical programs by selecting film songs composed by famed Kannada writers. He was also invited to be a speaker \n. He was also interviewed on the topic of the changing landscape of Bangalore city\n\n"}
{"id": "56259223", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56259223", "title": "Conservative wave", "text": "Conservative wave\n\nThe conservative wave (; ), or blue tide, is a right-wing political phenomenon that emerged in mid-2010 in South America as a direct reaction to the pink tide.\n\nAfter a decade of centre-left governments, influence of the São Paulo Forum, which had supported leftist parties in South America and the Caribbean, has declined as in Argentina the liberal Mauricio Macri succeeded Cristina Kirchner in 2015; in Brazil, there was Dilma Rousseff's impeachment process that resulted in Rouseff's departure and the rise of her Vice President Michel Temer to power in 2016; in Chile the conservative Sebastián Piñera, succeeded again social-democrat Michelle Bachelet in 2017, just as it was in 2009; and again in Brazil the federal deputy Jair Bolsonaro became President-elect of Brazil in 2018.\n\nThe conservative phenomenon has been compared with the election of Donald Trump in the United States and the growth of the right-wing populism and neo-nationalism in Europe (the Brexit in the United Kingdom, the advance of Marine Le Pen in France, Alternative for Germany in Germany, Five Star Movement and Lega Nord in Italy, Freedom Party of Austria in Austria, Fidesz in Hungary, Law and Justice in Poland and Sweden Democrats in Sweden) as similar phenomena. It has also been associated to the Evangelical community recent growth in size and power.\n\nAccording to Roberto Schwarz, the left has historically had cultural hegemony. It can be considered its peak in the 1990s, a period that coincides with the beginning of the left turn in Latin America). In his essay \"Culture and Politics in Brazil (1964-1969)\", literary critic and professor Roberto Schwarz already observed the phenomenon. In full military regime, he writes:\nSchwarz feared that the left would lose its cultural hegemony after the hardening of the military regime, but that did not happen. With the return of democracy, the left's cultural and intellectual hegemony was still enormous. In his work entitled \"Literature\" (1988), sociologist and writer Antonio Candido already observed the phenomenon. It was rare to find any politician or entrepreneur who risked defining himself as conservative as they were all \"invariably centered, even center-left, including the frankly reactionary\".\n\nIn Argentina, the election of the centre-right Mauricio Macri in November 2015 as President of Argentina brought a right-wing government to power, although the populist movements of Peronism and Kirchnerism (tied to its leader Cristina Fernández de Kirchner's popularity) initially remained somewhat strong. At the start of his tenure, Macri's government inherited a list of economic problems from the Kirchners, such as high unemployment rates, inflation and an increase in poverty, though his government eventually halved the inflation rate by late 2017 and Argentina's economy began to grow again. In October 2017, Macri established a more firm hold on power when many candidates of his Cambiemos party enjoyed victories in the 2017 Argentine legislative election, making a political comeback for Kirchner more difficult. A series of corruption scandals involving Macri and his allies developed during his presidential period, including six federal investigations for alleged money laundry, influence trafficking and illegal increase of his family's wealth while also being involved in the Panama Papers scandal. In 2017, Macri's pension reform faced massive protests in opposition that some members of the press described as the more violent protest in Buenos Aires in decades. Media reporters have accused Macri's government of police brutality and violent repression while handling these and other recent protests.\n\nIn Brazil, it began roughly around the time Dilma Rousseff won the 2014 presidential election in a tight election, kicking off the fourth term of the Workers' Party in the highest position of government. In addition, according to the political analyst of the Inter-Union Department of Parliamentary Advice Antônio Augusto de Queiroz the National Congress elected in 2014 may be considered the most conservative since the \"re-democratization\" movement, noting an increase in the number of parliamentarians linked to more conservative segments, such as ruralists, military, police and the religious.\n\nThe subsequent economic crisis of 2015 and investigations of corruption scandals led to a right-wing movement that sought to rescue ideas from economic liberalism and conservatism in opposition to left-wing policies. The growing numbers and influence of strongly socially conservative and prosperity theology-believers among the evangelical Christian communities in Latin America has also been pointed as one of the factors behind the phenomenon.\n\nAt the same time, young liberals such as those that make up the Free Brazil Movement emerged among many others. For Manheim (1952), within a single real generation there may be several generations which he called \"differentiated and antagonistic\". For him, it is not the common birth date that marks a generation, though it matters, but rather the historical moment in which they live in common. In the case, the historical moment was the impeachment of Dilma Rousseff. They can be called the \"post-Dilma generation\".\n\nRight-wing interim President Michel Temer took office following the impeachment of President Rousseff. Temer held 3% approval ratings in October 2017, facing a corruption scandal after accusations for obstructing justice and racketeering were placed against him. He managed to avoid trial thanks to the support of the right-wing parties in the Brazilian Congress. On the other hand, President of the Senate Renan Calheiros, who was acknowledged as one of the key figures behind Rousseff's destitution and member of the centrist Brazilian Democratic Movement Party, was himself removed from office after facing embezzlement charges.\n\nFar-right candidate Jair Bolsonaro of the Social Liberal Party was the winner of the 2018 presidential election followed by left-wing former Mayor of Sao Paulo Fernando Haddad of Luiz Inácio Lula da Silva's Workers' Party. Lula was banned to run after being convicted on criminal corruption charges and being imprisoned. Bolsonaro has been accused of racist, xenophobic, misogynistic and homophobic rhetoric.\n\nIn Guatemala, centre-left social democratic leader Alvaro Colom of the National Unity of Hope was elected in 2007, being the only modern day leftist president in the country.\n\nColom's successor, right-wing Liberal Otto Pérez Molina, was forced to resign his presidency due to popular unrest and corruption scandals that ended with his arrest. Following Molina's resignation, right-wing Jimmy Morales was elected into office. Morales is currently under investigation for illegal financing.\n\nIn Honduras, Manuel Zelaya's turn to the left during his tenure resulted in the 2009 Honduran coup d'état which was condemned by the entire region, including the United States. Next President, right-wing Juan Orlando Hernández of the conservative National Party, won the presidential election over left-wing Xiomara Castro (Zelaya's wife) by a slight margin. Soon after, Hernández reformed the Constitution to allow himself to be candidate for immediate reelection (something until then forbidden by Honduran law) and ran as candidate for the 2017 presidential election in what some observers question as undemocratic, authoritarian-leaning and corrupt. During the election, Hernández' tight self-proclaimed victory over Salvador Nasralla of the Opposition Alliance against the Dictatorship alongside accusations of voter fraud cause massive riots throughout Honduras. The declaration of a curfew from the country label as illegal by some jurists according to the Constitution and the violent repression of the protests left at least seven dead and dozens injured. Due to the general popular unrest and voter fraud allegations, the Organization of American States requested a new election.\n\nIn Paraguay, the conservative, right-wing Colorado Party ruled the country for over sixty years, including the American-supported dictatorship of Alfredo Stroessner that lasted thirty-five years, from 1954 to 1989. Paraguay is one of the poorest countries of South America. This dominant-party system was temporary broken in the 2008 presidential elections, when practically the entire opposition united in the Patriotic Alliance for Change managed to elect former Bishop Fernando Lugo of the Christian Democratic Party as President of Paraguay. Lugo's government was praised for its social reforms, including investments in low-income housing, the introduction of free treatment in public hospitals, the introduction of cash transfers for Paraguay's most impoverished citizens and indigenous rights.\n\nNevertheless, Lugo did not finish his period as he was impeached despite enjoying very high approval ratings and popularity. The impeachment was rejected by the Inter-American Commission on Human Rights, condemned by both right-wing and left-wing governments and considered a coup d'état by UNASUR and Mercosur and treated accordingly with sanctions and suspensions for Paraguay. Lugo was later elected Senator and President of the Senate.\n\nParaguay's next President, right-wing Colorado Horacio Cartes, described by human rights organizations as authoritarian and homophobe, has attempted to reform the Constitution to allow himself to be re-elected indefinitely, something which caused popular uproar. Cartes was also the suspect of money laundry and tax evasion scandals.\n\nIn Peru, Pedro Pablo Kuczynski won the 2016 presidential election, with Peru becoming yet another country that departs from a centre-left government. In this election, the third candidate with major support was leftist candidate Veronika Mendoza of the Broad Front with 18% of votes. Following corruption investigations surrounding Odebrecht, Peru's Congress demanded Kuczynski to defend himself in a session, with Odebrecht stating that Kuczynski's involvement with the company was legal compared to the illegalities performed by his leftist predecessor. Due to the corruption scandal, the impeachment of Kuczynski was started, but voted against by a slight margin in Congress. After videos were leaked to the public showing brivery from the Fujimorists to keep Kuczynski in office, Kuczyinski resigned on his own. Kuczyinski was succeeded by his first Vice President Martín Vizcarra.\n\nOn the political changes that were happening in the country, a collection of twenty essays organized by Felipe Demier and Rejane Hoeveler, titled \"The Conservative Wave - Essays on the Current Dark Times in Brazil\", was launched in 2016. In the synopsis, professor emeritus José Paulo Netto characterizes the right-wing opposition as being downgrade of intelligence. It is also emphasized the rootedness of reactionary thinking and practices in Brazilian state powers and Brazilian society in multiple dimensions as well as the challenges that the left will have to face.\nBelow are right-wing and centre-right presidents elected in Latin America since 2010:\n\n"}
{"id": "387960", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=387960", "title": "Copying", "text": "Copying\n\nCopying is the duplication of information or an artifact based only on an instance of that information or artifact, and not using the process that originally generated it. With analog forms of information, copying is only possible to a limited degree of accuracy, which depends on the quality of the equipment used and the skill of the operator. There is some inevitable generation loss, deterioration and accumulation of \"noise\" (random small changes, not sound) from original to copy, when copies are made. This deterioration accumulates with each generation. With digital forms of information, copying is perfect. Copy and paste is frequently used for information a computer user selects and copies to an area he or she wishes.\n\nMost high-accuracy copying techniques use the principle that there will be only one type of possible interpretation for each reading of data, and only one possible way to write an interpretation of data.\n\nIn visual art, copying the works of the masters is a standard way that students learn to paint and sculpt. In sculpture, copies have often been made using devices such as the pointing machine, the pantograph or, more recently, computer guided router systems that scan a model and can produce it in a variety of materials and in any desired size. Another way of copying three-dimensional works is by lost-wax casting and other forms of molding and casting.\n\nPrior to the invention of the printing press, the only way to obtain a copy of a book was to copy it out by hand (see scrivener). Throughout the Middle Ages, monks copied entire texts as a way of disseminating and preserving literary, philosophical and religious texts.\n\nOffices need more than one copy of a document in a number of situations. They usually need a copy of outgoing correspondence for their records. Sometimes they want to circulate copies of documents they create to several interested parties.\n\nUntil the late 18th century, if an office wanted to keep a copy of an outgoing letter, a clerk had to write out the copy by hand. This technology continued to be prevalent through most of the 19th century. For this purpose offices employed copy clerks, also known as copyists, scribes, and scriveners.\n\nA few alternatives to hand copying were invented between the mid-17th century and the late 18th century, but none had a significant impact in offices. In 1780 James Watt obtained a patent for letter copying presses, which James Watt & Co. produced beginning in that year. Letter copying presses were used by the early 1780s by the likes of Benjamin Franklin, George Washington, and Thomas Jefferson. In 1785, Jefferson was using both stationary and portable presses made by James Watt & Co.\n\nDuring the 19th century a host of competing technologies were introduced to meet office copying needs. The technologies that were most commonly used in 1895 are identified in an 1895 description of the New York Business College's course program: \"All important letters or documents are copied in a letter-book or carbon copies [are] made, and instruction is also given in the use of the mimeograph and other labor-saving office devices.\"\n\nOrganically, copying of genetic information can take place using DNA replication, which is able to copy and replicate the data with a high degree of accuracy, but mistakes are common, and occur in the form of mutations. However, in the process of DNA repair, many of the mistakes are resolved by checking the copied data against the original data.\n\nThis principle is applied digitally, such as in hard disks, but in a different form. The magnetised data on the disk consists of 1s and 0s. Unlike DNA, it only has two types of information, rather than four types, however, it still has a polar concept of transfer. In this case, the read-write head acts as an intermediary. A data section reading \"1\", can only trigger one type of response, and \"0\" for the other. These responses from reading are converted into an electrical form that gets carried through the circuits. Although this can be later converted and processed for other ways of using the data, which can be modified, if a file were being copied from one hard disk to another, the principle ensures that the data is transferred with high fidelity, because only each type of signal can only trigger one type of data write, in this case a 1 or a 0. This excludes exceptions where the data was written incorrectly or the existing data has been corrupted while on the disk such that no distinction can be made, but usually the hard disk returns the area as unreadable. The other concept that using digital copying is website copy , digital copying has more interpretation than just the basic concept of disk read and write itself. Digital Copy is a sample of interpretation of digital copying.\n\nThe concept of copying has a particular significance in certain areas of law. In each of the primary areas of intellectual property law, a number of cases have refined the question of what exactly constitutes the kind of copying prohibited by law, especially in areas such as copyright law.\n\nA related concept is plagiarism, copying others' work and passing it off as one's own.\nMany schools will take plagiarism to academic suspension, or even the failure of a course. Make sure to check your school's honor code to ensure their rules on plagiarism.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2619340", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2619340", "title": "Deckhead", "text": "Deckhead\n\nA deckhead is the underside of a deck in a ship. It bears the same relationship to a compartment on the deck below as does the ceiling to the room of a house. \n"}
{"id": "5884870", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5884870", "title": "Detention (imprisonment)", "text": "Detention (imprisonment)\n\nDetention is the process whereby a state or private citizen lawfully holds a person by removing his or her freedom or liberty at that time. This can be due to (pending) criminal charges preferred against the individual pursuant to a prosecution or to protect a person or property. Being detained does not always result in being taken to a particular area (generally called a detention centre), either for interrogation or as punishment for a crime (see prison).\n\nThe term can also be used in reference to the holding of property for the same reasons. The process of detainment may or may not have been preceded or followed with an arrest. \n\nDetainee is a term used by certain governments and their armed forces to refer to individuals held in custody, such as those it does not classify and treat as either prisoners of war or suspects in criminal cases. It is used to refer to \"any person captured or otherwise detained by an armed force.\" More generally, it means \"someone held in custody.\" The prisoners in Guantánamo Bay are referred to as \"detainees\".\n\nArticle 9 of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights provides that \"[n]o one shall be subjected to arbitrary arrest, detention or exile.\" In wars between nations, treatment of detainees is governed by the provisions of the Fourth Geneva Convention.\n\nAny form of imprisonment where a person's freedom of liberty is removed can be classed as detention, although the term is often associated with persons who are being held without warrant or charge before any have been raised. Being detained for the purposes of a drugs search is tantamount to a temporary arrest, as it is not yet known whether charges can be brought against an individual, pending the outcome of the search. The term 'detained' often refers to the \"immediacy\" when someone has their liberty deprived, often before an arrest or pre-arrest procedure has yet been followed. For example, a shoplifter being pursued and restrained, but not yet informed he/she is under arrest or read his rights would be classed as 'detained'.\n\nThe detention of suspects is the process of keeping a person who has been arrested in a police-cell, remand prison or other detention centre before trial or sentencing.\n\nThe length of detention of suspected terrorists, with the justification of taking an action that would aid counter-terrorism, varies according to country or situation, as well as the laws which regulate it.\n\nThe Terrorism Act 2006 in the United Kingdom lengthened the 14-day limit for detention without an arrest warrant or an indictment from the Terrorism Act 2000 to 28 days. A controversial Government proposal for an extension to 90 days was rejected by the House of Commons. English criminal law requires the detainer/arrestor to have reasonable grounds to suspect (reasonable suspicion) when detaining (or arresting) someone.\n\nIndefinite detention of an individual occurs frequently in wartime under the laws of war. This has been applied notably by the United States after the September 11, 2001 attacks. Before the Combatant Status Review Tribunals, created for reviewing the status of the Guantanamo detainees, the United States has argued that it is engaged in a legally recognizable armed conflict to which the laws of war apply, and that it therefore may hold captured al Qaeda and Taliban operatives throughout the duration of that conflict, without granting them a criminal trial.\n\nThe U.S. military regulates treatment of detainees in the manual , last revised in 1997.\n\nThe term \"unlawful combatant\" came into public awareness during and after the War in Afghanistan (2001–present), as the U.S. detained members of the Taliban and al-Qaeda captured in that war, and determined them to be unlawful combatants. This had generated considerable debate around the globe. The U.S. government refers to these captured enemy combatants as \"detainees\" because they did not qualify as prisoners of war under the definition found in the Geneva Conventions.\n\nUnder the Obama administration the term enemy combatants was also removed from the lexicon and further defined under the 2010 Defense Omnibus Bill:\n\nSection 948b. Military commissions generally: (a) Purpose-This chapter establishes procedures governing the use of military commissions to try alien unprivileged enemy belligerents for violations of the law of war and other offenses triable by military commission.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "53138089", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53138089", "title": "Diarmait Mac Giolla Chriost", "text": "Diarmait Mac Giolla Chriost\n\nDiarmait Mac Giolla Chriost is an Irish academic in the area of linguistics.\n\nBorn and raised in Ireland, Mac Giolla Chríost became a lecturer in the School of Welsh at Cardiff University in 2004. As of 2016 he is a Reader there and a member of the School's Research Unit on Language, Policy and Planning. He is a native of Ireland and an authority on linguistic minorities and language planning, and, in particular, the situation of the Irish language. He is now a professor at the university and proceeds to climb the academic ladder.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1198465", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1198465", "title": "Ecocomposition", "text": "Ecocomposition\n\nEcocomposition is a way of looking at literacy using concepts from ecology. It is a postprocess theory of writing instruction that tries to account for factors beyond hierarchically defined goals within social settings; however, it doesn't dismiss these goals. Rather, it incorporates them within an ecological view that extends the range of factors affecting the writing process beyond the social to include aspects such as \"place\" and \"nature.\" Its main motto, then, is \"Writing Takes Place\" (also the title of one of Sidney I. Dobrin's articles on ecocomposition).\n\nThe theory for ecocomposition dates back to Marilyn Cooper's 1986 essay \"The Ecology of Writing\" and Richard Coe's \"Eco-Logic for the Composition Classroom\" (1975). More recently, Dobrin and Weisser (2002) have assembled a more detailed theory of ecocomposition, placing it in relation to ecofeminism, ecocriticism , and environmental ethics. Other scholars (e.g., Reynolds, 2004) have shown its close proximity to social geography. According to ecofeminist scholar Greta Gaard (2001), \"at its most inclusive, ecocomposition has the potential to address social issues such as feminism, environmental ethics, multiculturalism, politics, and economics, all by examining matters of form and style, audience and argumentation, and reliable sources and documentation\" (p. 163).\n\nEcocomposition is one area of scholarly study discussed at the Conference on College Composition and Communication (CCCC), a national forum for writing instructors and scholars. As an educational endeavor, it is linked most closely with progressive education (Dewey, 1915), critical education (Giroux, 1987), and place-based education (Sobel, 2004).\n\nEcocomposition asks what effects a place has (or different places have) on the writing process. In what ways is our identity influenced by place, and what bearing does this have on our writing? What sets of relationships help us define our place—including the relationship between writer and reader? How do the sometimes contradictory sets of relationships in which we write allow us to see certain possibilities and foreclose others? How do these relationships define reality for each of us in different ways?\n\n\"Ecology\", in the wide sense in which it was used by Coe and Cooper, includes both natural and social relations. Hence, ecocomposition instructors emphasize not only the writer's relationship to physical place but also the social relations among writers and readers. In the classroom, this translates into pedagogical practices that \"emphasize the value of fostering community and collaboration throughout the writing process\" (Gaard, 2001, p. 166). As a post-process method of writing instruction, ecocomposition attends not only to the process of writing but also what happens to texts after they are written. Thus, ecocomposition instructors focus not only on the process of composition but also on its purpose, encouraging students to write for specific audiences, adapting their style and content to match their purpose and audience.\n\nWhile a primary concern has been the relationship between the writing process and natural places, concepts of spatiality also apply to cyberspace and online writing—in MUDs, MOOs, Internet Relay Chat, Instant Messages, and e-mail (Syverson, 1999; Yagelski, 2002). Ecocomposition instructors may use blogs or other means by which to allow students to interact with one another and/or write for a real audience beyond the classroom (see, e.g., Jones, 2008).\n\nEcocomposition should not be confused or conflated with other systemic approaches to writing such as activity theory, which do not account for the dynamic relationship between writing and place but posit a transcendent \"context\" that affects writing.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "23369240", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23369240", "title": "Ena Murray", "text": "Ena Murray\n\nEna Murray (27 December 1936 – 4 June 2015) was a well-known Afrikaans writer. During the 33 years that she wrote full-time, 131 titles appeared from her pen. She acquired renown mainly for her romance novels, but also wrote detective fiction, espionage fiction and adventure novels through which she reached a wide audience. In addition she wrote spiritual literature and produced a volume of poetry.\n\nShe has been described has the \"most read writer in Afrikaans\". In a survey by Radio Sonder Grense and Tafelberg-Uitgewers she was deemed the most popular writer in Afrikaans.\n\nSome of her books appeared in large print, aiding the visually impaired. Some were recorded by Pionier School, a special needs school in Worcester, while others were recorded by \"Bandhulp vir Blindes in braille en band\" (an institution assisting the blind).\n\nEna Murray was born in the small Karoo town of Loxton. She was the second of three daughters of the local medical practitioner, Dr. Mans. She received her schooling at Loxton and the neighbouring town of Victoria West. After matriculating she worked as a nurse.\n\nShe married Boet Murray of Loxton, thus returning to her birth town, where her literary career started in earnest. The marriage would last twenty years. After her divorce she settled in Wilderness in the southern Cape. Two years later she married Jaques Mostert and after ten years they moved to a retirement village in Mossel Bay, where she died on 4 June 2015.\n\nMany of her novels were semi-biographical and these often proved popular. Apparently her readers identified with the characters, leading to filming of two novels. The first film was \"Vrou uit die nag\" (Woman emerging from the night) by the Christian film company Carfo, and the well-known \"Plekkie in die son\" (Place in the sun) which had the theme of a leprosy shelter.\n\nShe is considered to be a thorough researcher of the topics of her novels, who doesn't start writing unless this first phase in complete. Whether it be historic, medical or geographic knowledge that is required, she is considered to be versed in the facts of each. When researching \"Plekkie in die son\", she stayed for some time at the leprosy shelter Westfort outside Pretoria, to acquire the necessary insight into such an institution.\n\nNote: English titles given here are translations of the Afrikaans, and have not been available as such.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "25769182", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25769182", "title": "Enrichment factor", "text": "Enrichment factor\n\nEnrichment Factor is used to describe bodies of mineral ore. It is defined as the minimum factor by which the weight percent of mineral in an orebody is greater than the average occurrence of that mineral in the Earth's crust. It can be used to compare the necessary enrichment of different types of minerals for their recovery to be economically viable.\n\nEnrichment Factors that relate to the economic viability of an orebody are largely determined by the following:\n\n"}
{"id": "52846723", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52846723", "title": "Evolution of molecular chaperones", "text": "Evolution of molecular chaperones\n\nChaperones, also called molecular chaperones, are proteins that assist other proteins in assuming their three-dimensional fold, which is necessary for protein function. However, the fold of a protein is sensitive to environmental conditions, such as temperature and pH, and thus chaperones are needed to keep proteins in their functional fold across various environmental conditions. Chaperones are an integral part of a cell's protein quality control network by assisting in protein folding and are ubiquitous across diverse biological taxa. Since protein folding, and therefore protein function, is susceptible to environmental conditions, chaperones could represent an important cellular aspect of biodiversity and environmental tolerance by organisms living in hazardous conditions. Chaperones also affect the evolution of proteins in general, as many proteins fundamentally require chaperones to fold or are naturally prone to misfolding, and therefore mitigates protein aggregation.\n\nThe evolutionary development of chaperones is highly linked to the evolution of proteins in general, as their primary function is dependent on the presence of proteins. Proteins were selected as the main biological catalysts over ribozymes, RNA molecules capable of catalyzing biological reactions, early in cellular evolution. Diversity of monomers (4 nucleotides versus 20 amino acids), interactions during folding, and consequences of changes in sequence are some of the hypotheses that attempt to explain why proteins were selected over ribozymes.\n\nSmall proteins fold spontaneously, but the development of increasingly larger proteins, which have more complex folding patterns and intramolecular interactions, would have required chaperones to prevent protein aggregation due to misfolding. Folding of early proteins would have been error-prone in ancient cell cytosol and chaperones would have been needed to assist in unfolding and re-folding.\n\nHeat shock proteins (HSPs) are a diverse class of molecular chaperones that assist in folding under stress. While originally identified in heat stress response (hence the name “heat shock”), inducible HSP expression is a consequence of all known stressors (pH, osmotic, temperature, energy depletion, ion concentration, etc.). Genetic stress, a result of deleterious mutations, also increases HSP expression. HSPs are ubiquitous across all domains of life (Bacteria, Archaea, and Eukarya) and have been found in every species for which they have been tested. HSPs are divided into families, based on sequence homology and molecular weight (\"hsp110, hsp100, hsp90, hsp70, hsp60, hsp40, hsp10,\" and small \"hsp\" families).\n\nProteins are highly susceptible to denaturation due to environmental conditions and organisms that live in hazardous conditions should have a basal level of HSP expression. However, other adaptations, such as colonizing less hazardous microhabitats or other behavioral adaptations, could also contribute to acclimation in stressful habitats. Additionally, “normal” environments can also place stress on inhabitants (drought or seasonal changes, for example). These factors muddy the relationship between HSP expression and environmental stress resistance and HSP expression in nature is not well characterized.\n\nElevated expression of heat shock proteins is not correlated with chronic environmental stress and is thought to be due to the costs of HSP expression. High levels of \"hsp70\" are known to accompany deficits in cell division, reproduction, and reproductive success. Intracellularly, HSP expression shuts down normal cell functions and diverts a large amount of energy for stress resistance. Additionally, high levels of HSP is hypothesized to be toxic due to disruption of cell functions, possibly by excessive binding of client proteins. These results suggest that the costs of HSP expression are more suited to temporary stressors.\n\nChaperones have also been implicated in the understanding the relationship between genotype and phenotype. Protein folding in itself transitions from genotype to phenotype: primary structure/amino acid sequence reflects genotype while the final, functional fold, either tertiary or quaternary structure, represents phenotype. Since chaperones are mediators of this transition by assisting in the fold of the client protein, chaperone activity is thought to modulate the adaptive evolution of the proteome.\n\nOne observation in line with this hypothesis is chaperone buffering, where the activity of a chaperone masks or “buffers” deleterious or destabilizing mutations in a client protein. In \"Drosophila melanogaster,\" reduced activity of \"hsp90\" resulted in deficient phenotypes caused by mutations in developmental pathways. \"Hsp70\" in \"Drosophila\" was also shown to buffer deleterious mutations. Similar results have been shown in \"Saccharomyces cerevisiae\" and \"Arabidopsis thaliana\". Work in \"Escherichia coli\" showed that the GroES/GroEL system (aka \"hsp10\" and \"hsp60\" respectively) similarly buffered the effect of destabilizing mutations in a phosphotriesterase. The mutation disrupted the fold of the protein, but conferred an increase in efficiency upon chaperone-assisted folding. These results illustrate a model in which evolution can act on the phenotype of a protein while the deleterious effect of the genotype is mitigated by chaperones.\n\nChaperones are ancient proteins that have been evolutionarily conserved across all domains of life and are ubiquitous across all biological taxa. Since they are so widespread and ancient, they can be used as molecular markers in studies of ancient cellular evolution.\n\nPhylogenetic analysis using two families of HSPs (\"hsp10 and hsp60\", also called chaperonins) support the current endosymbiosis model of the origin of mitochondria and chloroplasts. \"Hsp10\" and \"hsp60\" are present in all eubacteria and organelles of eukaryotes (mitochondria and chloroplasts), but not in eukaryotic cell cytosol and archaebacteria. Phylogenetic trees were generated using 56 total amino acid sequences from Gram positive and Gram negative bacteria; mitochondria from plants, animals, fungi, and protists; cyanobacteria; and chloroplasts. Any two \"hsp60\" amino acid sequences share at least 40% similarity, with 18-20% of differences coming from conservative changes (uncharged amino acid to another uncharged amino acid). Any two \"hsp10\" amino acid sequences share at least 30% similarity, with 15-20% conservative changes. Phylogenetic analysis using \"hsp10\" and \"hsp60\" yield similar results to that of rRNA and other genes. Mitochondria were found to be most closely related to the α-purple subdivision of Gram negative bacteria and chloroplasts were most similar to cyanobacteria, similar to other data supporting the endosymbiosis theory. Gram positive bacteria were found to be the most ancestral, which is also supported by other studies.\n"}
{"id": "6633740", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6633740", "title": "Fender (boating)", "text": "Fender (boating)\n\nIn boating, a fender is a bumper used to absorb the kinetic energy of a boat or vessel berthing against a jetty, quay wall or other vessel. Fenders, used on all types of vessels, from cargo ships to cruise ships, ferries and personal yachts, prevent damage to vessels and berthing structures. To do this, fenders have high energy absorption and low reaction force. Fenders are typically manufactured out of rubber, foam elastomer or plastic. Rubber fenders are either extruded or made in a mold. The type of fender that is most suitable for an application depends on many variables, including dimensions and displacement of the vessel, maximum allowable stand-off, berthing structure, tidal variations and other berth-specific conditions. The size of the fender unit is based on the berthing energy of the vessel which is related to the square of the berthing velocity.\n\nHistorically, fenders were woven from rope in a variety of patterns. Fenders of woven rope are still used today by historic boat owners.\n\nYachts, small leisure craft and support vessels typically have mobile fenders which are placed between the boat and the dock as the boat approaches the dock. Docks and other marine structures, such as canal entrances and bases of bridges, have permanent fenders placed to avoid damage from boats. Old tires are often used as fenders in such places.\n\nFendering is also used on ports and berths as well. The fendering systems act as elastic buffer devices that are used to slow ships down and prevent damage to the ship or dock structure in the mooring process.\n\nMarine fenders are used at ports and docks on quay walls and other berthing structures. They absorb the kinetic energy of a berthing vessel and thus prevent damage to the vessel or the berthing structure. There are 2 major categories of fenders for port applications: Fixed and Floating. Fixed fenders are mounted to the berth structure and compose of buckling fenders such as cell fenders, V-type fenders, and non-buckling fenders such as cylindrical fenders. Floating fenders are placed between the berth structure and ship, and include pneumatic fenders and foam-filled fenders.\n\nFender spacing should be determined by the smallest ship using the berth, as well as the design ships' hull radius of curvature. To ensure all ships can be accommodated at the berth, fender spacing should be about 5%-10% of the ship's length for vessels up to 20,000 dwt. Berths handling larger ships can should have a fender spacing of about 25%-50% of the ship's length.\n\nDesign life of port fenders will vary by ship type, berthing frequency, temperature, saltwater content, and other environmental factors. Fender manufacturers recommend a design life of 5–15 years on berths accepting general cargo, while 10–20 years for more specialized berths such as those accepting tanker ships.\n\nDamaged fendering equipment is the responsibility of either the port owner or ship owner. Port owner responsibility includes damages by ordinary wear and tear by ships, weathering, faulty mounting, incorrect fender type, etc. Ship owner responsibility includes any damages to the fendering system caused by the ship, such as crashing into the berth structure during berthing.\n\nFor bunkering operations between two vessels, floating fenders such as pneumatic or foam elastomer fenders are typically used.\n\nCylindrical fenders are commonly used fenders which ensure a safe and linear berthing for different kinds of vessels. Cylindrical (extruded) fenders are an economical solution to protect most berthing structures, and offer ease of installation. In France, professional mariners call them \"bougnafles\".\n\nArch fenders were introduced to improve upon the performance of Cylindrical fenders. Arch fenders have a better Energy / Reaction force ratio and recommended for all types of applications. The shape of these fenders helps to dissipate the stresses evenly. These extruded fenders are very easy to install and are maintenance free. Generally preferred for small to medium range vessels.\n\nCell fenders are best employed for small or large vessels where reaction force is an important criterion. Among all types of fenders, cell fenders offer minimum reaction per ton-meter energy absorbed. The very geometric shape gives it sturdiness, shear resistance, compact structure and the capacity to absorb energy equally from all directions. The Cylindrical buckling column absorbs axial loads effectively and buckles radially. This results in multi-directional dispersion of energy. Cell fenders are the most durable rubber fenders available and are currently the largest moulded fenders made. 2000–2500 mm high cell fenders are typically used for LNG berths. In order to distribute the reaction force, cell fenders are typically supplied with large fender panels, which keeps the hull pressure low.\n\nCone fenders are an improved version of Cell type Fender recently introduced and recommended for all types of applications including high tidal variation sites. This advanced feature of lesser height of fenders improves material handling capabilities of Deck / Vessel Cranes which reduces overall cost of the project. Due to the geometrical shape of the fenders it can deflect more and it can absorb more energy from any direction. Maintaining reaction force, but doubling energy absorption, can be achieved by using two identical cone fenders in a back-to-back arrangement. In order to distribute the reaction force, cone fenders are typically supplied with large fender panels, which keeps the hull pressure low.\n\nThese fenders are extensively used for ship to ship transfers at mid seas, double banking operations, and as vessel-to-berth at dock/jetties. The special property of a pneumatic fender is its low reaction force at low deflection. This property of pneumatic fenders makes them the most suitable fender for liquid cargo vessels and defense vessels with very sensitive equipment. These fenders have excellent energy absorption characteristics and linear load deflection characteristics. Pneumatic fenders should comply to the ISO 17357 standard.\nThe pneumatic fender is also known as the Yokohama fender or floating fender. There are four basic types of pneumatic fenders that comply with the international standard: Type I (Chain&Tyre Net Type), Type II (Sling Type), Type III (Rib Type) and Type IV (Rope Net Type). It has become an ideal ship protection medium used extensively by large tankers, LPG vessels, ocean platforms etc. The most appropriate type will depend on its application and the requirements of the equipment.\n\nThe submarine hydro-pneumatic fender (SHPF), first developed in the 1980s, is a unique fender system designed to provide minimal hull pressure loads and soft compression during berthing and a large stand-off to accommodate the large bulbous shape of the submarine. Its pneumatic fenders body is stronger than standard pneumatic fenders and is equipped with a specially designed counter weight to keep the fender vertical in water. Each SHPF system is customised specially for each type or class of submarine, depending on its water-air ratio, shape of the hull, berthing-type, energy absorption and jetty design.\n\nThese fenders are typically made of a closed-cell Polyethylene foam core, which is encapsulated in a nylon or Kevlar reinforced Polyurethane skin. The performance of foam elastomer fenders is comparable to that of a pneumatic fender, but the fenders will not lose their function in case the skin gets punctured. Foam elastomer fenders cannot deflate.\n\nD-type fenders are commonly used on vessels as well as small jetties. They are compression-moulded with steel inserts if required.\n\nSquare fenders are commonly used on vessels as well as small jetties. They are compression-moulded fenders generally used on tugs, boats and ships.\n\nWing fenders are compression moulded fenders and are generally used on tugs, boats and ships. Easy to install and replace. Do have excellent sea water resistance and resistance to ozone ageing and ultra violet rays.\n\nKeyhole fenders are the most versatile bow, stem fenders used on tugboats and small port craft/ferries. They offer maximum protection to tugs/ferries with their typical profile and load-absorbing capabilities.\n\nThese fenders are made of high-abrasion-resistance rubber with good resilience properties. They are very popular with small port craft owners and tug owners. These fenders are compression moulded in high-pressure thermic-fluid-heated moulds and have excellent seawater resistance.\n\nSolid rubber fender dock ship application long history and wide range of anti-collision equipment. Can be divided according to the rubber fender force to shear, rotation and compression type and so on; according to the fender structure, solid rubber fender can be classified as type D type, Cone type, drum type, fan-shaped, rectangular type, cylinder fender and so on.Solid rubber fender with high energy absorption and reaction force, and has low cost, long service life, easy installation and maintenance advantages, dock, dock installed more protective device.\n\nFloating rubber fender is newer protecting shipboard equipment, solid rubber fender relative than its main features are: large compressive deformation energy absorption, low reaction force, since floating, easy installation, etc. and for and. Due to its self-flotation characteristics especially suitable for large changes in the terminal installation in tide\n\nThere are a number of different standards used worldwide to design fender systems. The most commonly used one, is the PIANC \"Guidelines for the design of fender systems, 2002\", which is the update of its predessecor from 1984. In Japan the Japanese Industrial Standards (JIS) are commonly used, whereas in the United Kingdom and the United States of America, the British Standard BS 6349:part 4 still used quite regularly.\n\nDesigning a fender system basically is determining what the berthing energy of a vessel or range of vessels will be, then determine what capacity the fender needs to have to absorb that kinetic energy and finally how to find a way to avoid the reaction force creating too much hull pressure. In principle, a berthing energy calculation is a simple kinetic energy calculation, adjusted for specific behaviour of a berthing vessel or the specific characteristics of the berthing location or structure.\n"}
{"id": "246670", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=246670", "title": "Ga language", "text": "Ga language\n\nGa is a Kwa language spoken in Ghana, in and around the capital Accra. It has a phonemic distinction between 3 vowel lengths.\n\nGa is a Kwa language, part of the Niger–Congo family. It is very closely related to Adangme, and together they form the Ga–Dangme branch within Kwa.\n\nGa is the predominant language of the Ga people, an ethnic group of Ghana.\n\nGa is spoken in south-eastern Ghana, in and around the capital Accra. It has relatively little dialectal variation. Although English is the official language of Ghana, Ga is one of 16 languages in which the \"Bureau of Ghana Languages\" publishes material on.\n\nGa has 31 consonant phonemes.\n\n\nGa has 7 oral vowels and 5 nasal vowels. All of the vowels have 3 different vowel lengths: short, long or extra long (the latter appears only in the simple future and the simple past negative forms).\n\nGa has 2 tones, high and low. Like many West African languages, it has tone terracing.\n\nThe syllable structure of Ga is (C)(C)V(C), where the second phoneme of an initial consonant cluster can only be and a final consonant may only be a (short or long) nasal consonant, e.g. \"ekome\", \"one\", V-CV-CV; \"kakadaŋŋ\", \"long\", CV-CV-CVC; \"mli\", \"inside\", CCV. Ga syllables may also consist solely of a syllabic nasal, for example in the first syllable of \"ŋshɔ\", \"sea\".\n\nGa was first written in about 1764, by Christian Jacob Protten (1715–1769), who was the son of a Danish soldier and a Ga woman. Protten was a Gold Coast Euro-African Moravian missionary and educator in the eighteenth century. In the mid-1800s, the Germany missionary, Johannes Zimmermann (1825–1876), assisted by the Gold Coast historian, Carl Christian Reindorf (1834–1917) and others, worked extensively on the grammar of the language, published a dictionary and translated the entire Bible into the Ga language. The orthography has been revised a number of times since 1968, with the most recent review in 1990. \n\nThe writing system is a Latin-based alphabet and has 26 letters. It has three additional letter symbols which correspond to the IPA symbols. There are also eleven digraphs and two trigraphs. Vowel length is represented by doubling or tripling the vowel symbol, e.g. 'a', 'aa' and 'aaa'. Tones are not represented. Nasalisation is represented after oral consonants where it distinguishes between minimal pairs.\n\nThe Ga alphabet is:\nAa, Bb, Dd, Ee, Ɛɛ, Ff, Gg, Hh, Ii, Jj, Kk, Ll, Mm, Nn, Ŋŋ, Oo, Ɔɔ, Pp, Rr, Ss, Tt, Uu, Vv, Ww, Yy, Zz\n\nThe following letters represent sounds which do not correspond with the same letter as the IPA symbol (e.g. B represents ):\n\nDigraphs and trigraphs:\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "35644261", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35644261", "title": "Gustave Fallot", "text": "Gustave Fallot\n\nGustave Fallot (17 November 1807 – 6 July 1836) was a French librarian and philologist.\n\nHaving obtained the diploma of palaeographer-archivist he was appointed sub-librarian of the Institut de France. He committed himself relentlessly to scholarship; he completed a manuscript on the origins of the French language and notably proposed writing a genealogical history of the human race by languages and a study of the Slavonic languages and literatures. \n"}
{"id": "5850875", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5850875", "title": "Hasnat Abdul Hye", "text": "Hasnat Abdul Hye\n\nHasnat Abdul Hye (born 19 May 1937) is a Bangladeshi writer and novelist. He was awarded Ekushey Padak by the Government of Bangladesh in 1994. As of 2017, he has 70 published works in both Bengali and English.\n\nHye was born in Calcutta in 1939. He studied economics at the University of Dhaka, the University of Washington, London School of Economics and development studies at Cambridge University.\n\nHye taught economics at the University of Dhaka for two years before joining the Civil Service of Pakistan in 1965. He retired as a full Secretary of the Bangladesh Government in 2000.\n\nHye wrote his first short story \"Carnival\" in 1960. His first travelogue is titled \"Manhattan and Ten Dollars.\" In 1995, he wrote \"Novera\", a novel based on the life story of the sculptor Novera Ahmed. In 2017, the book was adapted to a stage monodrama, acted by Samiun Jahan Dola.\n\nIn 2008, he published \"Boyhood in British India and Pakistan\", a collection of autobiographical columns that appeared in \"Daily News\" under the banner \"Aide Memoire.\" This covers a period from 1943 to 1954.\n\nOn 14 April 2013, Hye published a short story, titled \"TV Camerar Samne Meyeti\" (The Girl In Front Of The TV Camera) on the daily newspaper \"Prothom Alo\". The store centers around a politically active girl \"Seema\" leading the slogan shouting brigade who is sexually exploited by a senior politician, the man who recruits her. The story suggested her popularity stemmed from her sexual free-mixing with males. The publication angered readers and amid protests \"Prothom Alo\" issued an apology and retracted the story. Few days later, M Wahiduzzaman, a professor at the University of Dhaka, filed a petition with the High Court as a public interest litigation saying the story written by Hye \"is provocative and insulting to the women of the society\".\n\n\nHye was married to Nasreen Hye (d. 2012). Together they had a son and a daughter.\n"}
{"id": "11012076", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11012076", "title": "History of printing", "text": "History of printing\n\nThe history of printing starts as early as 3500 BCE, when the Persian and Mesopotamian civilizations used cylinder seals to certify documents written in clay. Other early forms include block seals, pottery imprints and cloth printing. Woodblock printing on paper originated in China around 200 CE. It led to the development of movable type in the eleventh century and the spread of book production in East Asia. Woodblock printing was also used in Europe, but it was in the fifteenth century that European printers combined movable type and alphabetic scripts to create an economical book publishing industry. This industry enabled the communication of ideas and sharing of knowledge on an unprecedented scale. Alongside the development of text printing, new and lower-cost methods of image reproduction were developed, including lithography, screen printing and photocopying.\n\nHand stencils, made by blowing pigment over a hand held against a wall, have been found in Asia and Europe dating from over 35,000 years ago, and later prehistoric dates in other continents. After that stencilling has been used as a historic painting technique on all kinds of materials. \nStencils may have been used to colour cloth for a very long time; the technique probably reached its peak of sophistication in Katazome and other techniques used on silks for clothes during the Edo period in Japan. In Europe, from about 1450 they were commonly used to colour old master prints printed in black and white, usually woodcuts. This was especially the case with playing-cards, which continued to be coloured by stencil long after most other subjects for prints were left in black and white. Stencils were used for mass publications, as the type did not have to be hand-written.\n\nIn China seals were used since at least the Shang dynasty. In the Western Zhou, sets of seal stamps were encased in blocks of type and used on clay moulds for casting bronzes. By the end of the 3rd century BC seals were also used for printing on pottery. In the Northern dynasties textual sources contain references to wooden seals with up to 120 characters.\n\nThe seals had a religious element to them. Daoists used seals as healing devices by impressing therapeutic characters onto the flesh of sick people. They were also used to stamp food, creating a talismanic character to ward off disease. The first evidence of these practices appeared under a Buddhist context in the mid 5th century. Centuries later seals were used to create hundreds of Buddha images.\n\nStone and bronze blocks have been used to print fabric. Archaeological evidence of them have been unearthed at Mawangdui and in the tomb of the King of Nanyue, while block printed fabrics have been discovered at Mashan zhuanchang in Jiangling, Hubei.\n\nIn the 4th century the practice of creating paper rubbings of stone carvings such as calligraphic models and texts took hold. Among the earliest evidence of this is a stone inscription cut in mirror image from the early 6th century.\n\nWoodblock printing (\"diaoban yinshua\" 雕版印刷), known as xylography today, was the first method of printing applied to a paper medium. It became widely used throughout East Asia both as a method for printing on textiles and later, under the influence of Buddhism, on paper. As a method of printing on cloth, the earliest surviving examples from China date to about 220. \"Ukiyo-e\" is the best known type of Japanese woodblock art print. Most European uses of the technique on paper are covered by the term woodcut (see below), except for the block-books produced mainly in the fifteenth century.\n\nAccording to southern Chinese histories, during the 480s, a man named Gong Xuanxuan styled himself Gong the Sage and 'said that a supernatural being had given him a \"jade seal jade block writing,\" which did not require a brush: one blew on the paper and characters formed.' He then used his powers to mystify a local governor. Eventually he was dealt with by the governor's successor, who presumably executed Gong. Timothy Hugh Barrett postulates that Gong's magical jade block was actually a printing device, and Gong was one of the first, if not the first printer. The semi-mythical record of him therefore describes his usage of the printing process to deliberately bewilder onlookers and create an image of mysticism around himself.\n\nThe rise of printing was greatly influenced by Mahayana Buddhism. According to Mahayana beliefs, religious texts hold intrinsic value for carrying the Buddha's word and act as talismanic objects containing sacred power capable of warding off evil spirits. By copying and preserving these texts, Buddhists could accrue personal merit. As a consequence the idea of printing and its advantages in replicating texts quickly became apparent to Buddhists, who by the 7th century, were using woodblocks to create apotropaic documents. These Buddhist texts were printed specifically as ritual items and were not widely circulated or meant for public consumption. Instead they were buried in consecrated ground. The earliest extant example of this type of printed matter is a fragment of a dhāraṇī (Buddhist spell) miniature scroll written in Sanskrit unearthed in a tomb in Xi'an. It is called the \"Great spell of unsullied pure light\" (\"Wugou jingguang da tuoluoni jing\" 無垢淨光大陀羅尼經) and was printed using woodblock during the Tang dynasty, c. 650-670. A similar piece, the \"Saddharma pundarika\" sutra, was also discovered and dated to 690 to 699. This coincides with the reign of Wu Zetian, under which the Longer Sukhāvatīvyūha Sūtra, which advocates the practice of printing apotropaic and merit making texts and images, was translated by Chinese monks.\n\nEvidence of woodblock printing appeared in Korea and Japan soon afterward. The Great Dharani Sutra () was discovered at Bulguksa, South Korea in 1966 and dated between 704 and 751 in the era of Later Silla. The document is printed on a mulberry paper scroll. A dhāraṇī sutra was printed in Japan around AD 770. One million copies of the sutra, along with other prayers, were ordered to be produced by Empress Shōtoku. As each copy was then stored in a tiny wooden pagoda, the copies are together known as the \"Hyakumantō Darani\" (百万塔陀羅尼, \"1,000,000 towers/pagodas Darani\").\n\nThe oldest extant evidence of woodblock prints created for the purpose of reading are portions of the Lotus Sutra discovered at Turpan in 1906. They have been dated to the reign of Wu Zetian using character form recognition.\n\nThe oldest text containing a specific date of printing was discovered in the Mogao Caves of Dunhuang in 1907 by Aurel Stein. This copy of the Diamond Sutra is 14 feet long and contains a colophon at the inner end, which reads: \"Reverently [caused to be] made for universal free distribution by Wang Jie on behalf of his two parents on the 13th of the 4th moon of the 9th year of Xiantong [i.e. 11 May, AD 868 ]\". It is considered the world's oldest securely-dated woodblock scroll.\n\nThe Diamond sutra was closely followed by the earliest extant printed almanac, the \"Qianfu sinian lishu\" (乾符四年曆書), dated to 877.\n\nFrom 932 to 955 the Twelve Classics and an assortment of other texts were printed. During the Song dynasty, the Directorate of education and other agencies used these block prints to disseminate their standardized versions of the \"Classics\". Other disseminated works include the \"Histories\", philosophical works, encyclopedias, collections, and books on medicine and the art of war.\n\nIn 971 work began on the complete Tripiṭaka Buddhist Canon (\"Kaibao zangshu\" 開寶藏書) in Chengdu. It took 10 years to finish the 130,000 blocks needed to print the text. The finished product, the Sichuan edition of the \"Kaibao canon\", also known as the \"Kaibao Tripitaka\", was printed in 983.\n\nIn 989 Seongjong of Goryeo sent the monk Yeoga to request from the Song a copy of the complete Buddhist canon. The request was granted in 991 when Seongjong's official Han Eongong visited the Song court. In 1011, Hyeonjong of Goryeo issued the carving of their own set of the Buddhist canon, which would come to be known as the \"Goryeo Daejanggyeong\". The project was suspended in 1031 after Heyongjong's death, but work resumed again in 1046 after Munjong's accession to the throne. The completed work, amounting to some 6,000 volumes, was finished in 1087. Unfortunately the original set of woodblocks was destroyed in a conflagration during the Mongol invasion of 1232. King Gojong ordered another set to be created and work began in 1237, this time only taking 12 years to complete. In 1248 the complete \"Goryeo Daejanggyeong\" numbered 81,258 printing blocks, 52,330,152 characters, 1496 titles, and 6568 volumes. Due to the stringent editing process that went into the \"Goryeo Daejanggyeong\" and its surprisingly enduring nature, having survived completely intact over 760 years, it is considered the most accurate of Buddhist canons written in Classical Chinese as well as a standard edition for East Asian Buddhist scholarship.\n\nPrior to the introduction of printing, the size of private collections in China had already seen an increase since the invention of paper. Fan Ping (215-84) had in his collection 7,000 rolls (\"juan\"), or a few hundred titles. Two centuries later, Zhang Mian owned 10,000 \"juan\", Shen Yue (441-513) 20,000 \"juan\", and Xiao Tong and his cousin Xiao Mai both had collections of 30,000 \"juan\". Emperor Yuan of Liang (508-555) was said to have had a collection of 80,000 \"juan\". The combined total of all known private book collectors prior to the Song dynasty number around 200, with the Tang alone accounting for 60 of them.\n\nFollowing the maturation of woodblock printing, official, commercial, and private publishing businesses emerged while the size and number of collections grew exponentially. The Song dynasty alone accounts for some 700 known private collections, more than triple the number of all the preceding centuries combined. Private libraries of 10-20,000 \"juan\" became commonplace while six individuals owned collections of over 30,000 \"juan\". The earliest extant private Song library catalogue lists 1,937 titles in 24,501 \"juan\". Zhou Mi's collection numbered 42,000 \"juan\", Chen Zhensun's collection lists 3,096 titles in 51,180 \"juan\", and Ye Mengde (1077-1148) as well as one other individual owned libraries of 6,000 titles in 100,000 \"juan\". The majority of which were secular in nature. Texts contained material such as medicinal instruction or came in the form of a \"leishu\" (類書), a type of encyclopedic reference book used to help examination candidates.\n\nImperial establishments such as the Three Institutes: Zhaowen Institute, History Institute, and Jixian Institute also followed suit. At the start of the dynasty the Three Institutes' holdings numbered 13,000 \"juan\", by the year 1023 39,142 \"juan\", by 1068 47,588 \"juan\", and by 1127 73,877 \"juan\". The Three Institutes were one of several imperial libraries, with eight other major palace libraries, not including imperial academies. According to Weng Tongwen, by the 11th century, central government offices were saving tenfold by substituting earlier manuscripts with printed versions. The impact of woodblock printing on Song society is illustrated in the following exchange between Emperor Zhenzong and Xing Bing in the year 1005:\n\nIn 1076, the 39 year old Su Shi remarked upon the unforeseen effect an abundance of books had on examination candidates:\n\nWoodblock printing also changed the shape and structure of books. Scrolls were gradually replaced by concertina binding (經摺裝) from the Tang period onward. The advantage was that it was now possible to flip to a reference without unfolding the entire document. The next development known as whirlwind binding (\"xuanfeng zhuang\" 旋風裝) was to secure the first and last leaves to a single large sheet, so that the book could be opened like an accordion.\n\nAround the year 1000, butterfly binding was developed. Woodblock prints allowed two mirror images to be easily replicated on a single sheet. Thus two pages were printed on a sheet, which was then folded inwards. The sheets were then pasted together at the fold to make a codex with alternate openings of printed and blank pairs of pages. In the 14th century the folding was reversed outwards to give continuous printed pages, each backed by a blank hidden page. Later the sewn bindings were preferred rather than pasted bindings. Only relatively small volumes (\"juan 卷\") were bound up, and several of these would be enclosed in a cover called a \"tao\", with wooden boards at front and back, and loops and pegs to close up the book when not in use. For example, one complete Tripitaka had over 6,400 \"juan\" in 595 \"tao\".\n\nDespite the productive effect of woodblock printing, historian Endymion Wilkinson notes that it never supplanted handwritten manuscripts. Indeed, manuscripts remained dominant until the very end of Imperial China:\n\nNot only did manuscripts remain competitive with imprints, they were even \"preferred\" by elite scholars and collectors. The age of printing gave the act of copying by hand a new dimension of cultural reverence. Those who considered themselves real scholars and true connoisseurs of the book did not consider imprints to be real books. Under the elitist attitudes of the time, \"printed books were for those who did not truly care about books.\"\n\nHowever it should be noted that copyists and manuscript only continued to remain competitive with printed editions by dramatically reducing their price. According to the Ming dynasty author Hu Yinglin, \"if no printed edition were available on the market, the hand-copied manuscript of a book would cost ten times as much as the printed work,\" also \"once a printed edition appeared, the transcribed copy could no longer be sold and would be discarded.\" The result is that despite the mutual co-existence of hand-copied manuscripts and printed texts, the cost of the book had declined by about 90 percent by the end of the 16th century. As a result, literacy increased. In 1488, the Korean Choe Bu observed during his trip to China that \"even village children, ferrymen, and sailors\" could read, although this applied mainly to the south while northern China remained largely illiterate.\n\nNine inscribed copper plates thought to belong to the mature Harappan phase (2600 - 1900 BCE), are thought to be used for printing.\n\nIn Buddhism, great merit is thought to accrue from copying and preserving texts. The 4th-century master listed the copying of scripture as the first of ten essential religious practices. The importance of perpetuating texts is set out with special force in the longer Sukhāvatīvyūha Sūtra, which urges the devout not only to hear, learn, remember and study the text but to obtain a good copy and to preserve it. This \"cult of the book\" led to techniques for reproducing texts in great numbers, especially the short prayers or charms known as \"dhāraṇīs\". Stamps were carved for printing these prayers on clay tablets from at least the 7th century, the date of the oldest surviving examples.\n\nPrinting with a press was practiced in Christian Europe as a method for printing on cloth, where it was common by 1300. Images printed on cloth for religious purposes could be quite large and elaborate, and when paper became relatively easily available, around 1400, the medium transferred very quickly to small woodcut religious images and playing cards printed on paper. These prints were produced in very large numbers from about 1425 onwards.\n\nAround the mid-century, \"block-books\", woodcut books with both text and images, usually carved in the same block, emerged as a cheaper alternative to manuscripts and books printed with movable type. These were all short heavily illustrated works, the bestsellers of the day, repeated in many different block-book versions: the Ars moriendi and the Biblia pauperum were the most common. There is still some controversy among scholars as to whether their introduction preceded or, the majority view, followed the introduction of movable type, with the range of estimated dates being between about 1440–1460.\n\nMovable type is the system of printing and typography using movable pieces of metal type, made by casting from matrices struck by letterpunches.\n\nMovable-type was invented in the Northern Song dynasty around the year 1041 by the commoner Bi Sheng. Bi Sheng's movable-type was fired in porcelain. After his death, the ceramic movable-type passed onto his descendants. The next mention of movable-type occurred in 1193 when a Southern Song chief counselor, Zhou Bida (周必大), attributed the movable-type method of printing to Shen Kuo. However Shen Kuo did not invent the movable-type but credited it to Bi Sheng in his \"Dream Pool Essays\". The ceramic movable-type was also mentioned by Kublai Khan's councilor Yao Shu, who convinced his pupil Yang Gu to print language primers using this method.\n\nBi Sheng also developed wooden movable type, but it was abandoned in favor of ceramic types due to the presence of wood grains and the unevenness of the wooden type after being soaked in ink. However wooden movable type had evidently reached the Tangut Western Xia to the west by the 12th century. There, the Tanguts printed the Auspicious Tantra of All-Reaching Union, a 449-page text considered to be the earliest extant example of a text printed using the wooden movable type.\n\nWang Zhen, who lived in the Yuan dynasty, also described the wooden movable type in his \"Book of Agriculture\" (\"Nongshu\" 農書) of 1313.\n\nWang Zhen used two rotating circular tables as trays for laying out his type. The first table was separated into 24 trays in which each movable type was categorized based on a number corresponding with a rhyming pattern. The second table contained miscellaneous characters.\n\nUsing more than 30,000 wooden movable types, Wang Zhen printed a hundred copies of his county gazetteer, \"Records of Jingde County\" (\"Jingde xianzhi\" 旌德縣志), a text containing more than 60,000 characters.\n\nWooden movable type printing became relatively common during the Ming dynasty and became widespread during the Qing era.\n\nMetal movable type appeared in the late Song and Yuan. Bronze movable types were used to print banknotes and official documents by both the Song and Jin.\n\nIn the Jin dynasty, copper-block prints were slotted with two square holes for embedding bronze movable type characters, each selected from 1000 different characters, such that each printed paper money had a different combination of markers. A copper block printed paper banknote dated between 1215–1216 in the collection of Luo Zhenyu's \"Pictorial Paper Money of the Four Dynasties\", 1914, shows two special characters: one called \"Ziliao\", the other called \"Zihao\", for the purpose of preventing counterfeit. Over the \"Ziliao\" there is a small character (輶) printed with movable copper type, while over the \"Zihao\" there is an empty square hole; apparently the associated copper metal type was lost. Another sample of Song dynasty money of the same period in the collection of Shanghai Museum has two empty square holes above \"Ziliao\" as well as \"Zihou\", due to the loss of two copper movable types.\n\nMetal movable type was received more positively in Korea where its methods were understood sometime before 1232 under Goryeo. The oldest known book to have been printed by using cast metal type is the \"Sangjeong Gogeum Yemun\", by Choe Yun-ui, in 1234. However, all 50 original volumes of the book seem to have been lost. The oldest extant book printed with movable metal type is the Jikji of 1377. This form of metal movable type was described by the French scholar Henri-Jean Martin as \"extremely similar to Gutenberg's\".\n\nThe oldest known book to have been printed by used cast metal type is the \"Sangjeong Gogeum Yemun\", by Choe Yun-ui, in 1234. However, all of the 50 original copies seem to have been lost. The oldest extant book printed with movable metal type is the Jikji, which was printed during the Goryeo Dynasty in 1377. \n\nTin movable type is mentioned in Wang Zhen's \"Zao Huozi Yinshufa\" (造活字印書法) of 1298, but it was considered unsatisfactory due to incompatibility with the inking process.\n\nMovable type printing was hardly used for the first 300 years after its invention by Bi Sheng. Even in Korea where metal movable type was most widespread, it still never replaced woodblock printing. Indeed, even the promulgation of Hangeul was done through woodblock prints. The general assumption is that movable type did not replace block printing in places that used Chinese characters due to the expense of producing more than 200,000 individual pieces of type. Even woodblock printing was not as cost productive as simply paying a copyist to write out a book by hand if there was no intention of producing more than a few copies. Although Sejong the Great introduced Hangeul, an alphabetic system, in the 15th century, Hangeul only replaced Hanja in the 20th century. And unlike China, the movable type system was kept mainly within the confines of a highly stratified elite Korean society:\n\nOnly during the Ming and Qing dynasties did wooden and metal movable types see any considerable use, but the preferred method remained woodblock. Usage of movable type in China never exceeded 10 percent of all printed materials while 90 percent of printed books used the older woodblock technology. In one case an entire set of wooden type numbering 250,000 pieces was used for firewood. Woodblocks remained the dominant printing method in China until the introduction of lithography in the late 19th century.\n\nIn Japan the use of printing beyond its Buddhist origins was insignificant for centuries after its introduction. Printing of secular materials did not pick up until the late 16th century. The \"Setsuyō-shū\", a two-volume Chinese-Japanese dictionary printed in 1591, was the first secular book to be printed in Japan. Only after Toyotomi Hideyoshi's invasions of Korea, which brought back artisans and printing equipment in 1593, did Japan acquire its own wooden type font. Under Emperor Go-Yōzei's orders, the Confucian \"Analects\" were printed using metal movable type in 1598. It is generally considered to be the earliest extant Japanese text printed using metal movable type. The popularity of movable type in Japan was short lived. By the 1640s woodblock printing had reasserted itself as the dominant mode of printing in Japan.\n\nTraditionally it has been assumed that the prevalence of woodblock printing in East Asia as a result of Chinese characters led to the stagnation of printing culture and enterprise in that region. S. H. Steinberg describes woodblock printing in his \"Five Hundred Years of Printing\" as having \"outlived their usefulness\" and their printed material as \"cheap tracts for the half-literate, ... which anyway had to be very brief because of the laborious process of cutting the letters.\" John Man's \"The Gutenberg Revolution\" makes a similar case: \"wood-blocks were even more demanding than manuscript pages to make, and they wore out and broke, and then you had to carve another one - a whole page at a time.\"\n\nRecent commentaries on printing in China using contemporary European observers with first hand knowledge complicate the traditional narrative. T. H. Barrett points out that only Europeans who had never seen Chinese woodblock printing in action tended to dismiss it, perhaps due to the almost instantaneous arrival of both xylography and movable type in Europe. The early Jesuit missionaries of late 16th century China, for instance, had a similar distaste for wood based printing for very different reasons. These Jesuits found that \"the cheapness and omnipresence of printing in China made the prevailing wood-based technology extremely disturbing, even dangerous.\" Matteo Ricci made note of \"the exceedingly large numbers of books in circulation here and the ridiculously low prices at which they are sold.\" Two hundred years later the Englishman John Barrow, by way of the Macartney mission to Qing China, also remarked with some amazement that the printing industry was \"as free as in England, and the profession of printing open to everyone.\" The commercial success and profitability of woodblock printing was attested to by one British observer at the end of the nineteenth century, who noted that even before the arrival of western printing methods, the price of books and printed materials in China had already reached an astoundingly low price compared to what could be found in his home country. Of this, he said:\n\nOther modern scholars such as Endymion Wilkinson hold a more conservative and skeptical view. While Wilkinson does not deny \"China's dominance in book production from the fourth to the fifteenth century,\" he also insists that arguments for the Chinese advantage \"should not be extended either forwards or backwards in time.\"\n\nEastern metal movable type may have spread to Europe between the late 14th and early 15th centuries.\n\nIt is traditionally surmised that Johannes Gutenberg, of the German city of Mainz, developed European movable type printing technology with the printing press around 1439 and in just over a decade, the European age of printing began. However, the evidence shows a more complex evolutionary process, spread over multiple locations. Also, Johann Fust and Peter Schöffer experimented with Gutenberg in Mainz.\n\nCompared to woodblock printing, movable type page-setting was quicker and more durable. The metal type pieces were more durable and the lettering was more uniform, leading to typography and fonts. The high quality and relatively low price of the Gutenberg Bible (1455) established the superiority of movable type, and printing presses rapidly spread across Europe, leading up to the Renaissance, and later all around the world. Today, practically all movable type printing ultimately derives from Gutenberg's movable type printing, which is often regarded as the most important invention of the second millennium.\n\nGutenberg is also credited with the introduction of an oil-based ink which was more durable than previously used water-based inks. Having worked as a professional goldsmith, Gutenberg made skillful use of his knowledge of metals. He also the first to make his type from an alloy of lead, tin, and antimony, known as type metal, printer's lead, or printer's metal, which was critical for producing durable type that produced high-quality printed books, and proved to be more suitable for printing than the clay, wooden or bronze types used in East Asia. To create these lead types, Gutenberg used what some considered his most ingenious invention: a special matrix which enabled the moulding of new movable types with an unprecedented precision at short notice. Within a year of printing the Gutenberg Bible, Gutenberg also published the first coloured prints.\n\nThe invention of the printing press revolutionized communication and book production, leading to the spread of knowledge. Printing was rapidly spread from Germany by emigrating German printers, but also by foreign apprentices returning home. A printing press was built in Venice in 1469, and by 1500 the city had 417 printers. In 1470 Johann Heynlin set up a printing press in Paris. In 1473 Kasper Straube published the \"Almanach cracoviense ad annum 1474\" in Kraków. Dirk Martens set up a printing press in Aalst (Flanders) in 1473. He printed a book about the two lovers of Enea Piccolomini who became Pope Pius II. In 1476 a printing press was set up in England by William Caxton. The Italian Juan Pablos set up an imported press in Mexico City in 1539. The first printing press in Southeast Asia was set up in the Philippines by the Spanish in 1593. The Rev. Jose Glover intended to bring the first printing press to England's American colonies in 1638, but died on the voyage, so his widow, Elizabeth Harris Glover, established the printing house, which was run by Stephen Day and became The Cambridge Press.\n\nThe Gutenberg press was much more efficient than manual copying. It remained largely unchanged in the eras of John Baskerville and Giambattista Bodoni, over 300 years later. By 1800, Lord Stanhope had constructed a press completely from cast iron, reducing the force required by 90% while doubling the size of the printed area. While Stanhope's \"mechanical theory\" had improved the efficiency of the press, it was only capable of 250 sheets per hour. German printer Friedrich Koenig was the first to design a non-manpowered machine—using steam. He moved to London in 1804, and met Thomas Bensley; he secured financial support for his project in 1807. With a patent in 1810, Koenig designed a steam press \"much like a hand press connected to a steam engine.\" The first production trial of this model occurred in April 1811.\n\nA printing press is a mechanical device for applying pressure to an inked surface resting upon a medium (such as paper or cloth), thereby transferring an image. The systems involved were first assembled in Germany by the goldsmith Johannes Gutenberg in the mid-15th century. Printing methods based on Gutenberg's printing press spread rapidly throughout first Europe and then the rest of the world, replacing most block printing and making it the sole progenitor of modern movable type printing. As a method of creating reproductions for mass consumption, The printing press has been superseded by the advent of offset printing.\n\nJohannes Gutenberg's work in the printing press began in approximately 1436 when he partnered with Andreas Dritzehen—a man he had previously instructed in gem-cutting—and Andreas Heilmann, owner of a paper mill. It was not until a 1439 lawsuit against Gutenberg that official record exists; witnesses testimony discussed type, an inventory of metals (including lead) and his type mold.\n\nOthers in Europe were developing movable type at this time, including goldsmith Procopius Waldfoghel of France and Laurens Janszoon Coster of the Netherlands. They are not known to have contributed specific advances to the printing press. While the Encyclopædia Britannica Eleventh Edition had attributed the invention of the printing press to Coster, the company now states that is incorrect.\n\nEarly printing houses (near the time of Gutenberg) were run by \"master printers.\" These printers owned shops, selected and edited manuscripts, determined the sizes of print runs, sold the works they produced, raised capital and organized distribution. Some master printing houses, like that of Aldus Manutius, became the cultural center for literati such as Erasmus.\n\n\nThe earliest-known image of a European, Gutenberg-style print shop is the \"Dance of Death\" by Matthias Huss, at Lyon, 1499. This image depicts a compositor standing at a compositor's case being grabbed by a skeleton. The case is raised to facilitate his work. At the right of the printing house a bookshop is shown.\n\nAccording to court records from the city of Mainz, Johannes Fust was for some time Gutenberg's financial backer. By the 16th century jobs in printing were becoming increasingly specialized. Structures supporting publishers were more and more complex, leading to division of labour. In Europe between 1500 and 1700 the role of the Master Printer was dying out and giving way to the bookseller—publisher. During this period, printing had a stronger commercial imperative than previously. Risks associated with the industry however were substantial, although dependent on the nature of the publication.\n\nBookseller publishers negotiated at trade fairs and at print shops. Jobbing work appeared: some printers performed menial tasks at the beginning of their careers to support themselves.\n\nFrom 1500–1700 publishers developed several new methods of funding projects:\n\n\nThe \"Mechanick Exercises\", by Joseph Moxon, in London, 1683, was said to be the first publication in installments.\n\nPublishing trade organizations allowed publishers to organize business concerns collectively. These arrangements included systems of self-regulation. For example, if one publisher did something to irritate other publishers he would be controlled by peer pressure. Such systems are known as cartels, and are in most countries now considered to be in restraint of trade. These arrangements helped deal with labour unrest among journeymen, who faced difficult working conditions. Brotherhoods predated unions, without the formal regulations now associated with unions.\n\nIn most cases, publishers bought the copyright in a work from the author, and made some arrangement about the possible profits. This required a substantial amount of capital in addition to that needed for the physical equipment and staff. Alternatively, an author with some capital available would sometimes keep the copyright himself, and simply pay the printer to print the book.\n\nIn a rotary printing press, the impressions are carved around a cylinder so that the printing can be done on long continuous rolls of paper, cardboard, plastic, or a large number of other substrates. Rotary drum printing was invented by Richard March Hoe in 1843 and patented in 1847, and then significantly improved by William Bullock in 1863.\n\nIntaglio () is a family of printmaking techniques in which the image is incised into a surface, known as the matrix or plate. Normally, copper or zinc plates are used as a surface, and the incisions are created by etching, engraving, drypoint, aquatint or mezzotint. Collographs may also be printed as intaglio plates. To print an intaglio plate the surface is covered in thick ink and then rubbed with tarlatan cloth to remove most of the excess. The final smooth wipe is usually done by hand, sometimes with the aid of newspaper or old public phone book pages, leaving ink only in the incisions. A damp piece of paper is placed on top and the plate and paper are run through a printing press that, through pressure, transfers the ink from the recesses of the plate to the paper.\n\nInvented by Bavarian author Aloys Senefelder in 1796, lithography is a method for printing on a smooth surface. Lithography is a printing process that uses chemical processes to create an image. For instance, the positive part of an image would be a hydrophobic chemical, while the negative image would be water. Thus, when the plate is introduced to a compatible ink and water mixture, the ink will adhere to the positive image and the water will clean the negative image. This allows for a relatively flat print plate which allows for much longer runs than the older physical methods of imaging (e.g., embossing or engraving).\nHigh-volume lithography is used today to produce posters, maps, books, newspapers, and packaging — just about any smooth, mass-produced item with print and graphics on it. Most books, indeed all types of high-volume text, are now printed using offset lithography.\n\nIn offset lithography, which depends on photographic processes, flexible aluminum, polyester, mylar or paper printing plates are used in place of stone tablets. Modern printing plates have a brushed or roughened texture and are covered with a photosensitive emulsion. A photographic negative of the desired image is placed in contact with the emulsion and the plate is exposed to ultraviolet light. After development, the emulsion shows a reverse of the negative image, which is thus a duplicate of the original (positive) image. The image on the plate emulsion can also be created through direct laser imaging in a CTP (Computer-To-Plate) device called a platesetter. The positive image is the emulsion that remains after imaging. For many years, chemicals have been used to remove the non-image emulsion, but now plates are available that do not require chemical processing.\n\nAccording to Michael Sullivan, the earliest known example of color printing \"is a two-color frontispiece to a Buddhist sutra scroll, dated 1346\". Color printing continued to be used in China throughout the Ming and Qing Dynasty.\n\nChromolithography became the most successful of several methods of colour printing developed by the 19th century; other methods were developed by printers such as Jacob Christoph Le Blon, George Baxter and Edmund Evans, and mostly relied on using several woodblocks with the colors. Hand-coloring also remained important; elements of the official British Ordnance Survey maps were colored by hand by boys until 1875. Chromolithography developed from lithography and the term covers various types of lithography that are printed in color. The initial technique involved the use of multiple lithographic stones, one for each color, and was still extremely expensive when done for the best quality results. Depending on the number of colors present, a chromolithograph could take months to produce, by very skilled workers. However much cheaper prints could be produced by simplifying both the number of colors used, and the refinement of the detail in the image. Cheaper images, like the advertisement illustrated, relied heavily on an initial black print (not always a lithograph), on which colors were then overprinted. To make an expensive reproduction print as what was once referred to as a \"’chromo’\", a lithographer, with a finished painting in front of him, gradually created and corrected the many stones using proofs to look as much as possible like the painting in front of him, sometimes using dozens of layers.\n\nAloys Senefelder, the inventor of lithography, introduced the subject of colored lithography in his 1818 \"Vollstaendiges Lehrbuch der Steindruckerey (A Complete Course of Lithography)\", where he told of his plans to print using color and explained the colors he wished to be able to print someday. Although Senefelder recorded plans for chromolithography, printers in other countries, such as France and England, were also trying to find a new way to print in color. Godefroy Engelmann of Mulhouse in France was awarded a patent on chromolithography in July 1837, but there are disputes over whether chromolithography was already in use before this date, as some sources say, pointing to areas of printing such as the production of playing cards.\n\nOffset printing is a widely used printing technique where the inked image is transferred (or \"offset\") from a plate to a rubber blanket, then to the printing surface. When used in combination with the lithographic process, which is based on the repulsion of oil and water, the offset technique employs a flat (planographic) image carrier on which the image to be printed obtains ink from ink rollers, while the non-printing area attracts a film of water, keeping the non-printing areas ink-free.\n\nScreenprinting has its origins in simple stencilling, most notably of the Japanese form (katazome), used who cut banana leaves and inserted ink through the design holes on textiles, mostly for clothing. This was taken up in France. The modern screenprinting process originated from patents taken out by Samuel Simon in 1907 in England. This idea was then adopted in San Francisco, California, by John Pilsworth in 1914 who used screenprinting to form multicolor prints in a subtractive mode, differing from screenprinting as it is done today.\n\nFlexography (also called \"surface printing\"), often abbreviated to \"flexo\", is a method of printing most commonly used for packaging (labels, tape, bags, boxes, banners, and so on).\n\nA flexo print is achieved by creating a mirrored master of the required image as a 3D relief in a rubber or polymer material. A measured amount of ink is deposited upon the surface of the printing plate (or printing cylinder) using an anilox roll. The print surface then rotates, contacting the print material which transfers the ink.\n\nOriginally flexo printing was basic in quality. Labels requiring high quality have generally been printed Offset until recently. In the last few years great advances have been made to the quality of flexo printing presses.\n\nThe greatest advances though have been in the area of PhotoPolymer Printing Plates, including improvements to the plate material and the method of plate creation. —usually photographic exposure followed by chemical etch, though also by direct laser engraving.\n\nXerographic office photocopying was introduced by Xerox in the 1960s, and over the following 20 years it gradually replaced copies made by Verifax, Photostat, carbon paper, mimeograph machines, and other duplicating machines. Its availability is one of the factors that rendered undesirable the development of the paperless office heralded early in the digital revolution.\n\nA dot matrix printer or impact matrix printer refers to a type of computer printer with a print head that runs back and forth on the page and prints by impact, striking an ink-soaked cloth ribbon against the paper, much like a typewriter. Unlike a typewriter or daisy wheel printer, letters are drawn out of a dot matrix, and thus, varied fonts and arbitrary graphics can be produced. Because the printing involves mechanical pressure, these printers can create carbon copies and carbonless copies.\n\nEach dot is produced by a tiny metal rod, also called a \"wire\" or \"pin\", which is driven forward by the power of a tiny electromagnet or solenoid, either directly or through small levers (pawls). Facing the ribbon and the paper is a small guide plate (often made of an artificial jewel such as sapphire or ruby ) pierced with holes to serve as guides for the pins. The moving portion of the printer is called the print head, and when running the printer as a generic text device generally prints one line of text at a time. Most dot matrix printers have a single vertical line of dot-making equipment on their print heads; others have a few interleaved rows in order to improve dot density.\n\nThe first dot-matrix printers were invented in Japan. In 1968, Japanese manufacturer Epson released the EP-101, the world's first dot-matrix printer. The same year, Japanese manufacturer OKI introduced the first serial impact dot matrix printer (SIDM), the OKI Wiredot.\n\nA thermal printer (or direct thermal printer) produces a printed image by selectively heating coated thermochromic paper, or thermal paper as it is commonly known, when the paper passes over the thermal print head. The coating turns black in the areas where it is heated, producing an image.\n\nThe laser printer, based on a modified xerographic copier, was invented at Xerox in 1969 by researcher Gary Starkweather, who had a fully functional networked printer system working by 1971. Laser printing eventually became a multibillion-dollar business for Xerox.\n\nThe first commercial implementation of a laser printer was the IBM model 3800 in 1976, used for high-volume printing of documents such as invoices and mailing labels. It is often cited as \"taking up a whole room,\" implying that it was a primitive version of the later familiar device used with a personal computer. While large, it was designed for an entirely different purpose. Many 3800s are still in use.\n\nThe first laser printer designed for use with an individual computer was released with the Xerox Star 8010 in 1981. Although it was innovative, the Star was an expensive ($17,000) system that was only purchased by a small number of laboratories and institutions. After personal computers became more widespread, the first laser printer intended for a mass market was the HP LaserJet 8ppm, released in 1984, using a Canon engine controlled by HP software. The HP LaserJet printer was quickly followed by other laser printers from Brother Industries, IBM, and others.\n\nMost noteworthy was the role the laser printer played in popularizing desktop publishing with the introduction of the Apple LaserWriter for the Apple Macintosh, along with Aldus PageMaker software, in 1985. With these products, users could create documents that would previously have required professional typesetting.\n\nInkjet printers are a type of computer printer that operates by propelling tiny droplets of liquid ink onto paper.\n\nA dye-sublimation printer (or dye-sub printer) is a computer printer which employs a printing process that uses heat to transfer dye to a medium such as a plastic card, printer paper or poster paper. The process is usually to lay one color at a time using a ribbon that has color panels. Most dye-sublimation printers use CMYO colors which differs from the more recognised CMYK colors in that the black dye is eliminated in favour of a clear overcoating. This overcoating (which has numerous names depending on the manufacturer) is effectively a thin laminate which protects the print from discoloration from UV light and the air while also rendering the print water-resistant. Many consumer and professional dye-sublimation printers are designed and used for producing photographic prints.\n\nDigital printing is the reproduction of digital images on a physical surface, such as common or photographic paper or paperboard-cover stock, film, cloth, plastic, vinyl, magnets, labels etc.\n\nIt can be differentiated from litho, flexography, gravure or letterpress printing in many ways, some of which are;\n\n \nFrescography is a method for reproduction/creation of murals using digital printing methods, invented in 1998 by Rainer Maria Latzke, and patented in 2000. The frescography is based on digitally cut-out motifs which are stored in a database. CAM software programs then allow to enter the measurements of a wall or ceiling to create a mural design with low resolution motifs. Since architectural elements such as beams, windows or doors can be integrated, the design will result in an accurately and tailor-fit wall mural. Once a design is finished, the low resolution motifs are converted into the original high resolution images and are printed on canvas by Wide-format printers. The canvas then can be applied to the wall in a wall-paperhanging like procedure and will then look like on-site created mural.\n\nThree-dimensional printing is a method of converting a virtual 3D model into a physical object. 3D printing is a category of rapid prototyping technology. 3D printers typically work by 'printing' successive layers on top of the previous to build up a three dimensional object. 3D printers are generally faster, more affordable and easier to use than other additive fabrication technologies.\n\nWoodcut is a relief printing artistic technique in printmaking in which an image is carved into the surface of a block of wood, with the printing parts remaining level with the surface while the non-printing parts are removed, typically with gouges. The areas to show 'white' are cut away with a knife or chisel, leaving the characters or image to show in 'black' at the original surface level. The block is cut along the grain of the wood (unlike wood engraving where the block is cut in the end-grain). In Europe beechwood was most commonly used; in Japan, a special type of cherry wood was popular.\n\nWoodcut first appeared in ancient China. From 6th century onward, woodcut icons became popular and especially flourished in Chinese Buddhism. Since the 10th century, woodcut pictures appeared as illustrations in Chinese books, on banknotes such as Jiaozi (currency), and as single sheet images. Woodcut New Year pictures are also very popular with the Chinese.\n\nIn China and Tibet printed images mostly remained tied as illustrations to accompanying text until the modern period. The earliest woodblock printed book, the Diamond Sutra contains a large image as frontispiece, and many Buddhist texts contain some images. Later some notable Chinese artists designed woodcuts for books, the individual print develop in China in the form of New Year picture as an art-form in the way it did in Europe and Japan.\n\nIn Europe, woodcut is the oldest technique used for old master prints, developing about 1400, by using on paper existing techniques for printing on cloth. The explosion of sales of cheap woodcuts in the middle of the century led to a fall in standards, and many popular prints were very crude. The development of hatching followed on rather later than in engraving. Michael Wolgemut was significant in making German woodcut more sophisticated from about 1475, and Erhard Reuwich was the first to use cross-hatching (far harder to do than in engraving or etching). Both of these produced mainly book-illustrations, as did various Italian artists who were also raising standards there at the same period. At the end of the century Albrecht Dürer brought the Western woodcut to a level that has never been surpassed, and greatly increased the status of the \"single-leaf\" (i.e. an image sold separately) woodcut.\n\nEngraving is the practice of incising a design onto a hard, flat surface, by cutting grooves into it. The result may be a decorated object in itself, as when silver, gold or steel are engraved, or may provide an intaglio printing plate, of copper or another metal, for printing images on paper, which are called engravings. Engraving was a historically important method of producing images on paper, both in artistic printmaking, and also for commercial reproductions and illustrations for books and magazines. It has long been replaced by photography in its commercial applications and, partly because of the difficulty of learning the technique, is much less common in printmaking, where it has been largely replaced by etching and other techniques. Other terms often used for engravings are \"copper-plate engraving\" and \"Line engraving\". These should all mean exactly the same, but especially in the past were often used very loosely to cover several printmaking techniques, so that many so-called engravings were in fact produced by totally different techniques, such as etching.\n\nIn antiquity, the only engraving that could be carried out is evident in the shallow grooves found in some jewellery after the beginning of the 1st Millennium B.C. The majority of so-called engraved designs on ancient gold rings or other items were produced by chasing or sometimes a combination of lost-wax casting and chasing.\n\nIn the European Middle Ages goldsmiths used engraving to decorate and inscribe metalwork. It is thought that they began to print impressions of their designs to record them. From this grew the engraving of copper printing plates to produce artistic images on paper, known as old master prints in Germany in the 1430s. Italy soon followed. Many early engravers came from a goldsmithing background. The first and greatest period of the engraving was from about 1470 to 1530, with such masters as Martin Schongauer, Albrecht Dürer, and Lucas van Leiden.\n\nEtching is the process of using strong acid or mordant to cut into the unprotected parts of a metal surface to create a design in intaglio in the metal (the original process—in modern manufacturing other chemicals may be used on other types of material). As an intaglio method of printmaking it is, along with engraving, the most important technique for old master prints, and remains widely used today.\n\nHalftone is the reprographic technique that simulates ones it is continuous tone imagery through the use of equally spaced dots of varying size. 'Halftone' can also be used to refer specifically to the image that is produced by this process.\n\nThe idea of halftone printing originates from William Fox Talbot. In the early 1850s he suggested using \"photographic screens or veils\" in connection with a photographic intaglio process.\n\nSeveral different kinds of screens were proposed during the following decades, but the first half-tone photo-engraving process was invented by Canadians George-Édouard Desbarats and William Leggo Jr. On October 30, 1869, Desbarats published the \"Canadian Illustrated News\" which became the world's first periodical to successfully employ this photo-mechanical technique; featuring a full page half-tone image of His Royal Highness Prince Arthur, from a photograph by Notman. Ambitious to exploit a much larger circulation, Debarats and Leggo went to New York and launched the \"New York Daily Graphic\" in March 1873, which became the world's first illustrated daily.\n\nThe first truly successful commercial method was patented by Frederic Ives of Philadelphia in 1881. But although he found a way of breaking up the image into dots of varying sizes he did not make use of a screen. In 1882 the German George Meisenbach patented a halftone process in England. His invention was based on the previous ideas of Berchtold and Swan. He used single lined screens which were turned during exposure to produce cross-lined effects. He was the first to achieve any commercial success with relief halftones.\n\nXerography (or electrophotography) is a photocopying technique developed by Chester Carlson in 1938 and patented on October 6, 1942. He received for his invention. The name xerography came from the Greek radicals \"xeros\" (dry) and \"graphos\" (writing), because there are no liquid chemicals involved in the process, unlike earlier reproduction techniques like cyanotype.\n\nIn 1938 Bulgarian physicist Georgi Nadjakov found that when placed into electric field and exposed to light, some dielectrics acquire permanent electric polarization in the exposed areas. That polarization persists in the dark and is destroyed in light.\nChester Carlson, the inventor of photocopying, was originally a patent attorney and part-time researcher and inventor. His job at the patent office in New York City required him to make a large number of copies of important papers. Carlson, who was arthritic, found this a painful and tedious process. This prompted him to conduct experiments with photoconductivity. Carlson experimented with \"electrophotography\" in his kitchen and in 1938, applied for a patent for the process. He made the first \"photocopy\" using a zinc plate covered with sulfur. The words \"10-22-38 Astoria\" were written on a microscope slide, which was placed on top of more sulfur and under a bright light. After the slide was removed, a mirror image of the words remained. Carlson tried to sell his invention to some companies, but because the process was still underdeveloped he failed. At the time multiple copies were made using carbon paper or duplicating machines and people did not feel the need for an electronic machine. Between 1939 and 1944, Carlson was turned down by over 20 companies, including IBM and GE, neither of which believed there was a significant market for copiers.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "49430365", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49430365", "title": "Johann Christian Wernsdorf", "text": "Johann Christian Wernsdorf\n\nJohann Christian Wernsdorf I (6 November 1723 in Wittenberg – 25 August 1793 in Helmstedt) was a German writer, poet, and rhetorician.\n\nBorn the son of Gottlieb Wernsdorf the Elder and his wife Magaretha Katharina (nee Nitsch), he lost his father at an early age. He was his mother's caregiver afterward. He was educated by private tutors visiting Wittenberg Latin school, and afterwards studying at the Pforta school.\n\nHere he was trained in particular by Friedrich Gotthilf Freitag, from whom he gained insight into the Greek and Roman writers. He was especially attracted to German and Latin literature, and he wrote his own Latin verse. On October 4, 1741, he enrolled at Martin Luther University of Halle-Wittenberg, where, after earning a \"Magister\" degree (equivalent to a modern Master's degree) on April 30, 1744, in the following year, on October 17, 1745, he acquired a teaching license.\n\nDuring this period he held lectures, and on July 9, 1750 became an adjunct professor added to the philosophical faculty. During this time he undertook, as was customary, an educational trip and returned on October 4, 1791. At the instigation of Old testament scholar Johann Gottlob Carpzov, he was appointed by Charles I, Duke of Brunswick-Wolfenbüttel in autumn 1752 to the faculty of the University of Helmstedt, where he remained as a professor of rhetoric and poetry until his death in 1793.\n\nHelmstedt offered him no favorable environment, however. Since the founding of the University of Göttingen in 1734, a large loss of students had gone hand in hand. The Greek language was heard only in connection with theology, while the Latin curriculum was still treated as a scholarly language.\n\nEven still, Wernsdorf's scholarly writings brought him a great deal of prestige. His Helmstedt lectures produced many poems, speeches, and dissertations, and he endeavored to distinguish philology from theology. His major work is an edition of \"Poetae latini minores\" in seven volumes. The first five volumes were published by Wernsdorf himself (Altenburg, 1780-1788, Helmstedt 1791), a sixth volume was published after his death by his son (Helmstedt, 1799). The seventh volume remained unpublished.\n\nAfter the death of philologist Pieter Burman the Younger in 1778, Wernsdorf succeeded him as the editor of the Latin Anthology.\n\nHe had a daughter Louise, married to the German theologian Karl Ludwig Nitzsch, and a son Christian Gottlieb Wernsdorf.\n\n"}
{"id": "38476664", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38476664", "title": "Lasalimu language", "text": "Lasalimu language\n\nLasalimu is an Austronesian language spoken on Buton Island off the southeast coast of Sulawesi in Indonesia. It belongs to the Muna–Buton branch of the Celebic subgroup.\n"}
{"id": "35298951", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35298951", "title": "List of endangered languages in Colombia", "text": "List of endangered languages in Colombia\n\nAn endangered language is a language that it is at risk of falling out of use, generally because it has few surviving speakers. If it loses all of its native speakers, it becomes an extinct language. UNESCO defines four levels of language endangerment between \"safe\" (not endangered) and \"extinct\":\n"}
{"id": "24460175", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24460175", "title": "Madhukar Keche", "text": "Madhukar Keche\n\nMadhukar Keche (Devanagari: मधुकर केचे) (1932 - 1993) was a Marathi writer from Maharashtra, India.\n\nHis writings include:\n\nA Phd thesis on his work is also published. He was resident of Amravati but traveled all over Maharashtra. He was also a well known poet.\n"}
{"id": "7933353", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7933353", "title": "Mangue language", "text": "Mangue language\n\nMangue, also known as Chorotega, is an extinct Oto-Manguean language indigenous to Nicaragua, Honduras, Costa Rica and El Salvador. The ethnic population numbered around 10,000 in 1981. Chorotega-speaking peoples included the Mangue and Monimbo. The dialects were known as: Mangue proper in western Nicaragua, which was further subdivided into Dirian and Nagrandan; Choluteca in the region of Honduras' Bay of Fonseca; and Orotiña in Costa Rica's Nicoya Peninsula.\n\nThe Oto-Manguean languages are spoken mainly in Mexico and it is thought that the Mangue people moved south from Mexico together with the speakers of Subtiaba and Chiapanec well before the arrival of the Spaniards in the Americas.\n\nSome sources list \"Choluteca\" as an alternative name of the people and their language, and this has caused some (for example Terrence Kaufman 2001) to speculate that they were the original inhabitants of the city of Cholula, who were displaced with the arrival of Nahua people in central Mexico. The etymology for the nomenclature \"Chorotega\" in this case would come from the Nahuatl language where \"Cholōltēcah\" means \"inhabitants of Cholula\", or \"people who have fled\". The region of southernmost Honduras known as Choluteca, along with Choluteca City, derive their names from this Nahuatl word. Choluteca was originally inhabited by Chorotega groups. Daniel Garrison Brinton argued that the name chorotega was a Nahuatl exonym meaning \"people who fled\" given after a defeat by Nahuan forces that split the Chorotega-Mangue people into two groups. He argued that the better nomenclature was Mangue, derived from the group’s endonym \"mankeme\" meaning \"lords\".\n\nIn Guaitil, Costa Rica, the Mangue have been absorbed into the Costa Rican culture, losing their language, but pottery techniques and styles have been preserved.\n\nBrinton gives a list of Mangue words and phrases some of which are:\n\nThe Verb \"to be,\" \n\nPronouns. \n\nPhrases. \n\nBrinton also compares the color terms of Mangue and Chiapanec:\n\nAnd a number of Nicaraguan and Costa Rican placenames that come from the Mangue language:\n\n"}
{"id": "4149590", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4149590", "title": "Naba language", "text": "Naba language\n\nNaba is a Nilo-Saharan language spoken by 300,000 people in Chad. Those who speak this language are called Lisi, a collective name for three closely associated ethnic groups, the Bilala, the Kuka and the Medogo, that represent the three dialects in which Naba is subdivided. They live mainly in the Batha Prefecture, but the Kuka are also in Chari-Baguirmi. \"Ethnologue\" estimates the lexical similarity among the three dialects to be no less than 99%. Arabic is often known as a second language.\n\n"}
{"id": "11485235", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11485235", "title": "PATR-II", "text": "PATR-II\n\nPATR-II is a linguistic formalism used in computational linguistics, developed by Stuart M. Shieber. It uses context-free grammar rules and feature constraints on these rules.\n\n"}
{"id": "29226026", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29226026", "title": "Pattole Palome", "text": "Pattole Palome\n\nThe Pattole Palame, a collection of Kodava folksongs and traditions compiled in the early 1900s by Nadikerianda Chinnappa, was first published in 1924. The most important Kodava literature, it is said to be one of the earliest, if not the earliest, collection of the folklore of a community in an Indian language. Family histories, rituals and other records were scripted on palm leaves by astrologers. These ancient, scripted leaves called Pattole (patt=silk, ole=like) are still preserved at Kodava Aine manes. Palame was the name for the hereditary oral tradition of folk songs and ballads among the Coorgs (Kodavas). The fourth edition of the Pattole Palame was published in 2002 by the Karnataka Kodava Sahitya Academy. Nearly two thirds of the book consists of folksongs that were handed down orally through generations. Many of these songs are sung even today during marriage and death ceremonies, during our festivals relating to the seasons and during festivals in honour of local deities and heroes. Traditionally known as \"Balo Pat\", these songs are sung by four men who beat dudis as they sing. The songs have haunting melodies and evoke memories of times long past. Kodava folk dances are performed to the beat of many of these songs.\n\nThe book is of 556 pages and divided into six sections. The first is called the \"Kodagu vivarane\" (Description of Kodagu) and consists of the first 76 pages. It speaks mainly of Kodagu's history, mythical and political, and geography. The second section (pages 73–202) is called \"Kodavara paddathi\" (Kodava customs) which speak of the ceremonies in the life of a Kodava from birth until death. \"Habbagalu\" (pages 203-298) is the name of the third section and it speaks of the Kodava festivals. The fourth section \"Devatheyada Pattu\", gods' songs, from pages 269-403, consists of the songs of the village gods and goddesses. \"Goddess Kaveri, Seven Gods, Five Gods, Three Gods, Two Gods, Sarthavu (Aiyappa), Ketrappa (Kshetrapala), Pudiyodi (Bhagwathi)\" and others were the gods to whom these songs were dedicated. \"Keli Ponada Pattu\" (Songs of the well-known) forms the fifth section, pages from 404 to 502. It consists of ballads dedicated to \"Kanniyada Kamayya (also known as a folk song of Seven goddesses), Kaliatanda Ponnappa, Nadikerianda Devayya, Keyyondira Appayya, Aiyakovira Appayya and Poledevira Appayya\", who were folk heroes of Kodagu. \"Naana Tharada Vishayagalu\", from pages 503 to 556, forms the last section which consists of mainly sayings, proverbs and other matters.\n\nIn the past the village elders knew the traditional laws by heart and passed it on orally over the generations. In recent times the Pattole Palame has acted as a reference for Kodavas who sought the ancient law. One known example was when a couple had to be divorced. The law court referred to the Pattole Palame where they read about the 'Kallu-mara Kaipa' tradition and decided to have them separated (Biddappa 1996: viii). The elders of Kodava couples who marry outside Kodagu or even abroad refer to the Pattole Palame in order to follow the customs faithfully.\n\nNadikerianda Chinnappa and Appaneravanda Hardas Appachcha Kavi are the two important poets and writers of the Kodava language. Nadikerianda Chinnappa (1875–1931) was a Kodava Police Inspector in Coorg. He spent his leisure in travelling on horseback through the hills of Coorg. He got acquainted with several folk singers and thereafter he began to compile folk songs. Some prominent Kodavas reviewed his compilation (the Pattole Palome) and then C.S.Sooter the then Commissioner of Coorg got the British Government to publish it. In 1929 Chinnappa's translation of the Bhagwat Gita into Kodava thakk, called Bhagvathanda Patt got published. Chinnappa was also a well-known Kodava thakk poet. \n\nThe \"Pattole Palame\" was written using the Kannada script originally; it has been translated into English by Boverianda Nanjamma and Chinnappa, grandchildren of Nadikerianda Chinnappa, and has been published by Rupa & Co., New Delhi. The translators’ introduction explains: “Since the Kodava language does not have a script, he used the Kannada script that has been in vogue since the 17th century, when the Lingayat Rajas ruled Kodagu and Kannada was their court language.”\n\nNadikerianda Chinnappa had begun translating the work into English in 1925 but he died in 1931, before he could complete it. Chinnappa's daughter married into the Boverianda clan. His son and daughter-in-law were both teachers. Their daughter Nanjamma and Chinnappa's daughter's son, also called Chinnappa, cross-cousins, got married. Boverianda Chinnappa, an engineer with a degree from an Illinois university, and Nanjamma, a statistician who was a visiting fellow at Cambridge University in 1974, pursued their professions at Chennai, Kolkata and Canada. In the 1970s, Boverianda Chinnappa, Nanjamma's mother and Nanjamma began to copy out the Pattole Palome in longhand over almost three years.\n\nWhile they were searching for copies of the original edition of the Pattole Palame, a ninety-year-old farmer and self-taught folk artist, Bacharaniyanda Annaiah, responded to their advertisement. During his youth unable to afford the book he had copied out the entire text word by word under a kerosene lamp. This hardcover book he gifted to the Chinnappas. Nanjamma's parents assisted in translating and interpreting the text. In the second edition of ‘Pattole Palame” (or ‘Silken Lore’), published by the University of Mysore in 1975, the editor describes it as one of the earliest extensive collections of folklore from any Indian community.\n\nAfter retirement they settled down in Bangalore in 1995 and began to realise his cherished dream. Finally in 2003, they completed the work and it has been published by Rupa & Co., New Delhi. That same year it was released in Madikeri (Mercara). This book has become the chief text for the Coorgs.\n\nBoverianda Nanjamma and Chinnappa have chalked out at least ten Kodagu-based projects for the future, including a directory of aine mane or ancestral homes, a lexicon of the Kodava language and a biography of the late Bacharaniyanda Annaiah, a self-taught folk artist. Presently they have been working on the ainemane project, this can be found on the Ainmanes website.\n\n'You who know - why do you need this?\n\nYou who do not wish to know - why do you need this?\n\nYou who are incapable of knowing - why do you need this?\n\nYou who want to know - do read this.’ (Introduction to the Pattole Palame)\n\nBiddappa, Major Puggera P. \"Nadikerianda Chinnappa\" (in Kodava thakk), Bangalore, 1996.\n"}
{"id": "2326847", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2326847", "title": "Paul Lorenzen", "text": "Paul Lorenzen\n\nPaul Lorenzen (March 24, 1915 – October 1, 1994) was a German philosopher and mathematician, founder of the Erlangen School (with Wilhelm Kamlah) and inventor of game semantics (with Kuno Lorenz).\n\nLorenzen studied at the University of Göttingen until he earned his PhD there in 1938 under Helmut Hasse with a thesis titled \"Abstrakten Begründung der multiplikativen Idealtheorie\". In 1939, he became an assistant to Wolfgang Krull at the University of Bonn. His main work was on the foundations of mathematics—proof theory. He created and modified constructive mathematics. Lorenzen taught at Stanford, the University of Texas, and Boston University in the USA. He was John Locke Lecturer in 1967/1968.\n\nLorenzen came in 1962 to University of Erlangen (South Germany) and founded the Erlangen School of epistemological constructivism there.\n\nHe wrote with Kamlah the famous book \"Logical Propaedeutic\" (\"Logische Propädeutik\") and worked on game semantics (\"Dialogische Logik\") with \"Kuno Lorenz\". With Peter Janich he invented \"protophysics\" of time and space. He developed constructive logic, constructive type theory and constructive analysis.\n\nLorenzen's work on calculus \"Differential and Integral\" was dedicated to Hermann Weyl. Lorenzen used Weyl's technique to develop a predicative analysis, which can reconstruct classical analysis, without the principle of excluded middle or the Axiom of Choice. He worked also on Gerhard Gentzen's cut elimination to find a way to continue Hilbert's program after the results of Gödel.\n\nIn the theory of geometry and physics, Lorenzen was influenced by Hugo Dingler. He followed Dingler in building up geometry and physics out of primitive operations. Lorenzen took an early interpretation of Steven Weinberg (Gravitation and Cosmology, 1972) for his doubts about geometrical elements of general relativity, believing that Maxwell's equations are to be modified by general relativity instate.\n\nLorenzen was also influenced by Wilhelm Dilthey's hermeneutics, and liked to quote Dilthey's saying that knowledge cannot go behind life. Dilthey's \"Lebensphilosophie\" was the description of the setting in ordinary experience in which we construct the abstractions of mathematics and physics.\n\nAs John Locke Lecturer he invented normative Logic as a base on ethics and political argumentation.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1732880", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1732880", "title": "Personal seat license", "text": "Personal seat license\n\nA personal seat license, or PSL, is a paid license that entitles the holder to the right to buy season tickets for a certain seat in a stadium. This holder can sell the seat license to someone else if they no longer wish to purchase season tickets. However, if the seat license holder chooses not to sell the seat licenses and does not renew the season tickets, the holder forfeits the license back to the team. Most seat licenses are valid for as long as the team plays in the current venue.\n\nAs each PSL corresponds to a specific seat, the venue operator can charge different prices for each individual seat. From the fan's perspective, having a specific seat removed the necessity of searching for an open seat in a filled stadium. Also, fans can become friends with other people who also have PSLs in neighboring seats. Newly-built sporting venues often offer PSLs to help pay the debt incurred during the construction of the venue. Opponents of PSLs see this as another way to increase the price that fans must afford to attend the venue.\n\nSeat licenses have been given various names. The most common term in North America is personal seat license and in Europe is debenture.\n\nThere are varying accounts as to the origin of the personal seat license. \n\nAccording to one account, the first personal seat license plan was developed in 1986 at Stanford University by legendary tennis coach Dick Gould. Seeking financing for a new tennis stadium, Gould came up with the idea of selling the rights to seats, a licensing plan under which purchaser's name is engraved in the seat, and the purchaser owns the right to have first choice for tickets for any event held in the stadium.\n\nAccording to a second account, the permanent seat license was invented by a Columbus, Ohio architect, Rick Ohanian, in January 1987. Ohanian described his plan in a \"Letter to The Editor\" of the \"Columbus Dispatch\", published on March 2, 1987, entitled \"Ticketbond is Answer to Financing Proposed Facility\". \n\nAccording to a third account, the permanent seat license was invented by Charlotte sports marketing agent Max Muhleman, in 1993. Muhleman is credited as the founder of the first PSLs at Charlotte's then Carolinas Stadium. The idea began as \"Charter Seat Rights”, an idea Muhleman suggested to Charlotte Hornets owner George Shinn as a way to reward those who bought season tickets and helped Shinn get the team in the 1980s. The Hornets' season ticket holders received these rights for free, but people sold them like a commodity. This gave Muhleman the idea to use a similar concept, which fans would pay for, to finance the stadium. \n\nIn 1969, the Dallas Cowboys used stadium bonds to finance the construction of Texas Stadium in Irving. The purchase of the bond entitled the bond holder to purchase season tickets for the Cowboys.\n\nOthers cite similar programs that were in existence among many college fund raising activities prior to 1987. However, the early programs were tax-deductible donations to a scholarship fund, in which case the main \"quid-pro-quo\" was between the donation and the resultant deduction, not between the donation and the actual seating rights.\n\nSome of the teams that have seat licenses include:\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "8929654", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8929654", "title": "Print (magazine)", "text": "Print (magazine)\n\nPrint, A Quarterly Journal of the Graphic Arts was a limited edition quarterly periodical begun in 1940 and continued under different names through the end of 2017 as Print, a bimonthly American magazine about visual culture and design.\n\nIn its final format, \"Print\" documented and critiqued commercial, social, and environmental design from every angle: the good (how New York’s public-school libraries are being reinvented through bold graphics), the bad (how Tylenol flubbed its disastrous ad campaign for suspicious hipsters), and the ugly (how Russia relies on Soviet symbolism to promote sausage and real estate).\n\n\"Print\" was a general-interest magazine, written by cultural reporters and critics who look at design in its social, political, and historical contexts. From newspapers and book covers to Web-based motion graphics, from corporate branding to indie-rock posters, from exhibitions to cars to monuments, \"Print\" showed its audience of designers, art directors, illustrators, photographers, educators, students, and enthusiasts of popular culture why our world looks the way it looks, and why the way it looks matters. \"Print\" underwent a complete redesign in 2005, and ceased publication in 2017, with a promise to focus the brand on \"a robust and thriving online community.\" \n\nThe journal was founded by William Edwin Rudge to demonstrate “the far reaching importance of the graphic arts” including art prints, commercial printing, wallpaper, etc. Contents were eclectic covering typography, book making, book printing, fine prints as well as the trade journal aspects of printing candy bar wrappers.\n\nInitially the publication included original prints such as the frontispiece for Vol 1, #1 (Jun 1940) a two color woodcut by Hans Alexander Mueller and Vol 1, #3 (December 1940) a black and white wood engraving by Paul Landacre.\n\nBy Volume 8 (1953) the focus of the periodical had shifted to a trade journal.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "51131399", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51131399", "title": "Rajendra Patel", "text": "Rajendra Patel\n\nRajendra Patel (Gujarati: રાજેન્દ્ર પટેલ) is a Gujarati language poet, short story writer and critic from Gujarat, India. He has served as Vice President of Gujarati Sahitya Parishad since 2014. His significant works include \"Jueeni Sugandha\" (2003; collection of short stories), \"Shri Purant Janse\" (2009; collection of poems) and \"Avagat\" (2014; collection of criticism). Gujarat Sahitya Akademi awarded him three times for his poems, short stories and criticism. His book \"Jueeni Sugandh\" was translated by Navneet Thakkar in Hindi as \"Juhi Ki Mahak\" (2007). He also served in the editorial team of \"Shabdasrishti\", a monthly magazine published by Gujarat Sahitya Akademi.\n\nPatel was born on 20 August 1958 in the Naroda area of Ahmedabad, Gujarat; to Bhogilal and Lakshmibahen. He took his schooling from Diwan Ballubhai School, which is near Kankaria, from 1968 to 1974. He received his Bachelor of Science from Bhavans College, Ahmedabad in 1978 in the Chemistry subject. He received his Master of Science in Organic Chemistry from the School of Science at Gujarat University in 1980. He married in 1984 and has two daughters.\n\nHe started to write in 1974 and was published for first time in \"Vishwamanav\", a Gujarati language magazine. Subsequently, his poems were published in other literary magazines including Parab, Kumar, Kavilok, Kavita, Etad and Navneet Samarpan.\n\nHe served as a treasurer of Gujarati Sahitya Parishad, Ahmedabad from 2006 to 2009; as a member of the Advisory Board of Gujarati language at Sahitya Akademi, New Delhi from 2009 to 2012; as a joint secretary of Vanche Gujarat Abhiyan, Gandhinagar from 2010 to 2011; as a secretary of Gujarati Sahitya Parishad from 2010 to 2013; and is serving as a Vice President of Gujarati Sahitya Parishad since 2014. At present he is a trustee of Matrubhasha Abhiyan, Director of Anuvad Pratishthan and core team member of the Gujarat Literature Festival in Ahmedabad. He is also running a pharmaceutical company.<br>\n\n\nHe received prizes from Gujarat Sahitya Akademi for his short story collection \"Jueeni Sugandh\" in 2004, for his poetry collection \"Shree Purant Janse\" in 2009 and for his criticism book \"Avagat\" in 2014.\n\n"}
{"id": "6345648", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6345648", "title": "Remigius of Auxerre", "text": "Remigius of Auxerre\n\nRemigius (Remi) of Auxerre (; c. 841 – 908) was a Benedictine monk during the Carolingian period, a teacher of Latin grammar, and a prolific author of commentaries on classical Greek and Latin texts. He is also accredited with collecting and compiling other early medieval thinkers' commentaries on these works.\n\nRemigius, likely born in Burgundy, was a disciple of Lupus of Ferrières and Heiric of Auxerre (d. 876), who was himself a disciple of Johannes Scotus Eriugena. He also borrowed heavily in his commentaries from the Irish teacher Dunchad of Reims, Sedulius Scottus, and Martinus Hiberniensis. \"Usually, in accordance with Gresham's law of scholarship, Remigius' commentaries ultimately drove from the field those from which he had so generously borrowed,\" J. P. Elder has remarked. Putting the same phenomenon under a more positive light John Marenbon asserts that Remigius's extensive 9th century collection of commentary on classical texts (both his own and those of the authors upon which he drew), preserved for later academics not only the works of other early medieval thinkers, but also certain elements of the ancient Greek and Latin languages and philosophies. Later documentation shows that Remigius's collections were used across Europe in the later Medieval period, especially in the 12th century. \nHe taught at the monastery of Abbey of Saint-Germain en Auxerre, becoming the school master after Heiric's death in 876. In 883 he was called to teach at the Cathedral School in Reims by Archbishop Fulk, and made its headmaster in 893. Upon Fulk's death in 900, Remigius left to teach in Paris, where he remained until his own death. By this time he had earned the reputation of \"egregius doctor\" and \"in divinis et humanis scripturis eruditissimus\". As a teacher, Remigius interested himself in the problem of universals, and seems to have attempted a compromise between the extreme Realism of Eriugena and the Anti-Realism of his teacher Heiric. In general, he sought to interpret both classical texts and Christian Scripture in a way that could be taught to his students, exploring the ways in which ancient philosophy could be applied to the Christianized world in which they lived. Although the texts he examined were numerous and varied, his main commentaries were on the works of the late Roman philosophers Boethius and Martianus Capella, in which he found flexible allegories that he felt could co-exist with Christian theology.\n\nDuring his long academic career, Remigius wrote a number of glossaries and marginal commentaries on a wide variety of texts, both of classical and Christian origin. His glosses, which borrowed freely from earlier scoliasts, are of very great interest to the student of medieval Latin philology. His commentary on the Bible includes work on the Book of Genesis, and the Book of Psalms (his \"Ennarationes in Psalmos\"). He also wrote on the grammar of Priscian, Donatus, Phocas, and Eutyches. His favoured classical texts include works by Terence, Juvenal, and Caelius Sedulius, the \"Disticha Catonis\", and ' \"Ars de nomine\", as well as the later commentary of Bede. However, he is best remembered for his contribution to, and collection of, commentaries on the \"Opuscula Sacra\" and \"De Consolatione Philosophiae\" of Boethius, and the \"De Nuptiis Philologiae et Mercurii et de septem Artibus liberalibus libri novem\", or \"On the Wedding Day of Philology and Mercury and of the Seven Liberal Arts, in Nine Books\", of Martianus Capella. He is also thought to have written a commentary on some of the works of Prudentius, but the attribution is not secure.\n\nRemigius wrote his commentaries mostly for the benefit of his pupils, explaining the meaning and significance of texts in a dispassionate, concise way, placing emphasis on grammatical structures and linguistic peculiarities. Like most scholars of the Carolingian period, he had great respect for philosophy, particularly that of Plato and the Neo-Platonists that followed. He was an avid teacher of the Seven Liberal Arts, with emphasis on music and dialectic, indicating that he, like so many Carolingians, embraced classical virtues. However, he was also a devout Christian, and thus prone to using philosophical texts to clarify and make sense of certain aspect of Christian theology. Thus his commentaries examine the allegories and symbols in the texts in a way that reflects the older philosophies from which they are derived, but in a way that could be applied to the rituals and theology of the Church. His synthesis of Classical and Christian thought was in no way unprecedented, but in compiling the commentaries of other thinkers he perpetuated that early medieval inclination.\n\nDuring Remigius’s lifetime, music in the domain of the Church was monophonic, which would not change until the 12th and 13th centuries. However, the groundwork for polyphony was laid in his lifetime, with the examination and interpretation of ancient philosophical works. Texts by figures from Plato to Martianus Capella explored the philosophical relationships between mathematics and sound, and later, verse. Early medieval thinkers interpreted these texts in different ways, the grammarians among them (including Remigius of Auxerre), discovering innovative connections between the structures of music and verse. Through the grammatical exegesis of philosophical texts on the mathematics of music, the foundation was laid for polyphonic music, which came to fruition at Notre Dame de Paris some three centuries later.\n\nDuring the Carolingian period, the Roman Church had difficulty instituting a universal structure of the Mass because the ritual in France included a strong oral and musical tradition not present in that of the Roman Church. Music was then institutionalized by Rome, necessitating the grammarians’ interpretation of ancient philosophical discourses on music.\n\nRemigius wrote and taught in the fading light of what has been referred to as the Carolingian Renaissance,” which is said to have occurred during the reign of Charlemagne (800-814) also known as Charles I. At this time, Charlemagne’s guidance sparked a new interest in the works and ideas of ancient thinkers, especially in regards to the structure and application of Neo-Platonic philosophy, and Roman education and law (with emphasis on studying the seven liberal arts).\nAlthough Remigius of Auxerre was not directly involved in this cultural revival, he certainly benefitted from its influence. His academic position of grammarian hearkens back to the ancient Roman education model, in which Grammar, Logic, and Rhetoric stood as the three pillars of learning (the Trivium, on which theoretical knowledge is built). More importantly, Remigius’ exposure to ancient Greek and Latin, brought to the West through contact with the Byzantine Empire, gave him the opportunity to understand and comment upon philosophical texts. Finally, the prevailing sentiment of this “Carolingian Renaissance” is clearly present in Remigius’ works, namely, that Platonism and Christianity could co-exist; the former explained the universe, but with the necessary tools of the latter.\n\nInitial studies of Remigius’ commentaries concluded that he had drawn extensively from the works of John Scotus Eriugena, who had introduced the French Court and schools to Neo-Platonism a generation before. Remigius was accused by E. K. Rand of applying “scissors and paste” to Eriugena’s work, based on the fact that while Eriugena was a philosopher, Remigius was merely a grammarian. However, more recent scholarship has shown that not only are such condemnations unfair, neither are they entirely true.\n\nRemigius was greatly influenced by Eriugena, and certainly wrote his commentaries with his predecessor’s ideas firmly in mind. In fact, Remigius is known to have written his commentaries on Martianus Capella’s work with the help of two books, one by Eriugena, and the other by Martinus Hiberniensis. However, Remigius’s glosses are likely his own, given that examination of the documents indicates they were written at Auxerre. The problem with claiming that Remigius plagiarized is simply that at that time and in that place, most scholars were quite familiar with Eriugena’s work, and made use of his ideas in their own work with the understanding that his ideas would be easily distinguished from their own. Furthermore, Remigius’s commentary tends to be more concerned with grammatical matters than those of detailed philosophy, despite his belief that philosophy and religion were joint paths to wisdom. It is likely then, that he began with the Eriugena’s philosophical base, and added his own interpretation of texts. This seems even more likely when the difficulty of learning ancient Greek is taken into account.\n\nUntil the 13th century, no proper book of Greek grammar existed, requiring scholars to apply what they knew of Latin grammar, from reading Donatus, Priscian, and Isidore of Sevilla, to ancient Greek texts. Eriugena learned enough Greek to write commentary on the texts, and it seems plausible that a grammarian like Remigius would build his understanding of the language based on the work of another. Taking all of this into account, the controversy over Remigius’s supposed plagiarism appears, to modern scholars, to be a matter of early medieval scholastic circumstance rather than intent.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "8788893", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8788893", "title": "S. H. Bihari", "text": "S. H. Bihari\n\nShamsul Huda Bihari (S. H. Bihari) (d. 1987) was an Indian music director, songwriter and poet whose work was widely recorded and used in Bollywood movies during the latter half of the 20th century.\n\nBihari was born in Arrah, Bihar, India. He lived at Madhupur, Deoghar dist. in Jharkhand, his ancestral villa still existing in Madhupur. He died in 1987.\n\nBihari is best known for writing lyrics for films in Hindi and Urdu and was also fluent in Bengali. In 1985, along with the lyrics for the songs, Bihari also wrote the script for the film \"Pyaar Jhukta Nahin\".\n\nIn 2006, poet, lyricist and screenwriter Javed Akhtar cited Bihari as a role-model, describing him as a \"mindblowing … poet whom no one remembers today\".\n\n"}
{"id": "39033712", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39033712", "title": "Sanavirón language", "text": "Sanavirón language\n\nSanavirón is an extinct and unclassified language once spoken near Córdoba, Argentina. Loukotka (1968) classified it as a language isolate, but there is insufficient data to justify this (Campbell & Grondona 2012).\n"}
{"id": "34276021", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34276021", "title": "Scanning speech", "text": "Scanning speech\n\nScanning speech, also known as explosive speech, is a type of ataxic dysarthria in which spoken words are broken up into separate syllables, often separated by a noticeable pause, and spoken with varying force. The sentence \"Walking is good exercise\", for example, might be pronounced as \"Walk (pause) ing is good ex (pause) er (pause) cise\". Additionally, stress may be placed on unusual syllables. \n\nThe name is derived from literary scansion, because the speech pattern separates the syllables in a phrase much like scanning a poem counts the syllables in a line of poetry.\n\nThere is no universal agreement about the exact definition of this term. Some sources require only a noticeable pause between syllables, while others require other speech abnormalities, such as the unusual stress pattern on syllables. Some sources consider it a common, but not necessary, feature of ataxic dysarthria; others consider it exactly synonymous with ataxic dysarthria.\n\nScanning speech, like other ataxic dysarthrias, is a symptom of lesions in the cerebellum. It is a typical symptom of multiple sclerosis, and it constitutes one of the three symptoms of Charcot's neurologic triad.\n\nScanning speech may be accompanied by other symptoms of cerebellar damage, such as gait, truncal and limb ataxia, intention tremor, inaccuracies in rapidly repeated movements and sudden, abrupt nausea and vomiting. The handwriting of such patients may also be abnormally large.\n"}
{"id": "28135", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28135", "title": "Slovene language", "text": "Slovene language\n\nSlovene ( or ) or Slovenian (; \"slovenski jezik\" or \"slovenščina\") belongs to the group of South Slavic languages. It is spoken by approximately 2.5 million speakers worldwide, the majority of whom live in Slovenia. It is the first language of about 2.1 million Slovenian people and is one of the 24 official and working languages of the European Union.\n\nStandard Slovene is the national standard language that was formed in the 18th century, mostly based on Upper and Lower Carniolan dialect groups, the latter being a dialect spoken by Primož Trubar. Unstandardized dialects are more preserved in regions of the Slovene Lands where compulsory schooling was in languages other than Standard Slovene, as was the case with the Carinthian Slovenes in Austria, and the Slovene minority in Italy. For example, the Resian and Torre (Ter) dialects in the Italian Province of Udine differ most from other Slovene dialects.\n\nThe distinctive characteristics of Slovene are dual grammatical number, two accentual norms (one characterized by pitch accent), and abundant inflection (a trait shared with many Slavic languages). Although Slovene is basically an SVO language, word order is very flexible, often adjusted for emphasis or stylistic reasons. Slovene has a T–V distinction: second-person plural forms are used for individuals as a sign of respect.\n\nSlovene and Slovak are the only two modern Slavic languages whose names for themselves literally mean \"Slavic\" (\"slověnьskъ\" in old Slavonic).\n\nSlovene is an Indo-European language belonging to the Western subgroup of the South Slavic branch of the Slavic languages, together with Serbo-Croatian. It is close to the Chakavian and especially Kajkavian dialects of Serbo-Croatian, but further from the Shtokavian dialect, the basis for the Bosnian, Croatian, Montenegrin, and Serbian standard languages. Furthermore, Slovene shares certain linguistic characteristics with all South Slavic languages, including those of the Eastern subgroup, such as Bulgarian. \n\nAlthough Slovene is almost completely intelligible with the Kajkavian dialects of Serbo-Croatian (especially the variant spoken in Hrvatsko Zagorje on the border with Slovenia), mutual intelligibility with other varieties of Serbo-Croatian is hindered by differences in vocabulary, grammar, and pronunciation. The Slovene language also has many commonalities with the West Slavic languages.\n\nLike all Slavic languages, Slovene traces its roots to the same proto-Slavic group of languages that produced Old Church Slavonic. The earliest known examples of a distinct, written Slovene dialect are from the \"Freising Manuscripts,\" known in Slovene as \"Brižinski spomeniki\". The consensus estimate of their date of origin is between 972 and 1039 (most likely before 1000). These religious writings are among the oldest surviving manuscripts in any Slavic language.\n\nThe \"Freising Manuscripts\" are a record of a proto-Slovene language that was spoken in a much larger territory than modern Slovene, which included most of the present-day Austrian states of Carinthia and Styria, as well as East Tyrol, the Val Pusteria in South Tyrol, and some areas of Upper and Lower Austria. \n\nBy the 15th century, most of the northern areas were gradually Germanized: the northern border of the Slovene-speaking territory stabilized on the line going from north of Klagenfurt to south of Villach and east of Hermagor in Carinthia, while in Styria it was pretty much identical with the current Austrian-Slovenian border. \n\nThis linguistic border remained almost unchanged until the late 19th century, when a second process of Germanization took place, mostly in Carinthia. Between the 9th and 12th century, proto-Slovene spread into northern Istria and in the areas around Trieste.\n\nDuring most of the Middle Ages, Slovene was a vernacular language of the peasantry, although it was also spoken in most of the towns on Slovene territory, together with German or Italian. Although during this time, German emerged as the spoken language of the nobility, Slovene had some role in the courtly life of the Carinthian, Carniolan and Styrian nobility, as well. This is proved by the survival of certain ritual formulas in Slovene (such as the ritual installation of the Dukes of Carinthia). The words \"Buge waz primi, gralva Venus!\" (\"God be With You, Queen Venus!\"), with which Bernhard von Spanheim greeted the poet Ulrich von Liechtenstein upon his arrival in Carinthia in 1227 (or 1238), is another example of some level of Slovene knowledge among high nobility in the region.\n\nThe first printed Slovene words, \"stara pravda\" (meaning 'old justice'), appeared in 1515 in Vienna in a poem of the German mercenaries who suppressed the Slovene peasant revolt. Standard Slovene emerged in the second half of the 16th century, thanks to the works of Slovene Lutheran authors, who were active during the Protestant Reformation. The most prominent authors from this period are Primož Trubar, who wrote the first books in Slovene; Adam Bohorič, the author of the first Slovene grammar; and Jurij Dalmatin, who translated the entire Bible into Slovene.\n\nFrom the high Middle Ages up to the dissolution of the Austro-Hungarian Empire in 1918, in the territory of present-day Slovenia, German was the language of the elite, and Slovene was the language of the common people. During this period, German had a strong influence on Slovene, and many Germanisms are preserved in contemporary colloquial Slovene. Many Slovene scientists before the 1920s also wrote in foreign languages, mostly German, which was the \"lingua franca\" of science throughout Central Europe at the time.\n\nDuring the rise of Romantic Nationalism in the 19th century, the cultural movements of Illyrism and Pan-Slavism brought words from Serbo-Croatian and Czech into standard Slovene, mostly to replace words previously borrowed from German. Most of these innovations have remained, although some were dropped in later development. In the second half of the 19th century, many nationalist authors made an abundant use of Serbo-Croatian words: among them were Fran Levstik and Josip Jurčič, who wrote the first novel in Slovene in 1866. This tendency was reversed in the Fin de siècle period by the first generation of modernist Slovene authors (most notably the writer Ivan Cankar), who resorted to a more \"pure\" and simple language without excessive Serbo-Croatian borrowings.\n\nDuring the Kingdom of Yugoslavia in the 1920s and 1930s, the influence of Serbo-Croatian increased again. This was opposed by the younger generations of Slovene authors and intellectuals; among the most fierce opponents of an excessive Serbo-Croatian influence on Slovene were the intellectuals associated with the leftist journal \"Sodobnost\", as well as some younger Catholic activists and authors. After 1945, numerous Serbo-Croatian words that had been used in the previous decades were dropped. The result was that a Slovene text from the 1910s is frequently closer to modern Slovene than a text from the 1920s and 1930s.\n\nBetween 1920 and 1941, the official language of the Kingdom of Yugoslavia was defined as \"Serbian-Croatian-Slovene\". In practice, Slovene was used in Slovenia, both in education and administration. Many state institutions used only Serbo-Croatian, and a Slovene–Serbo-Croatian bilingualism was applied in many spheres of public life in Slovenia. For examples, at the post offices, railways and in administrative offices, Serbo-Croatian was used together with Slovene. However, state employees were expected to be able to speak Slovene in Slovenia.\n\nDuring the same time, western Slovenia (the Slovenian Littoral and the western districts of Inner Carniola) was under Italian administration and submitted to a violent policy of Fascist Italianization; the same policy was applied to Slovene speakers in Venetian Slovenia, Gorizia and Trieste. Between 1923 and 1943, all public use of Slovene language in these territories was strictly prohibited, and Slovene language activists were persecuted by the state.\n\nAfter the Carinthian Plebiscite of 1920, a less severe policy of Germanization took place in the Slovene-speaking areas of southern Carinthia which remained under Austrian administration. After the Anschluss of 1938, the use of Slovene was strictly forbidden in Carinthia, as well. This accelerated a process of language shift in Carinthia, which continued throughout the second half of the 20th century: according to the Austro-Hungarian census of 1910, around 17% of inhabitants of Carinthia spoke Slovene in their daily communication; in 1951, this figure dropped under 10%, and by 2001 to a mere 2.8%.\n\nDuring World War II, Slovenia was divided among the Axis Powers of Fascist Italy, Nazi Germany, and Hungary. Each of the occupying powers tried to either discourage or entirely suppress the Slovene language.\n\nFollowing World War II, Slovenia became part of the Socialist Federal Republic of Yugoslavia. Slovene was one of the official languages of the federation. In the territory of Slovenia, it was commonly used in almost all areas of public life. One important exception was the Yugoslav army, where Serbo-Croatian was used exclusively, even in Slovenia.\n\nNational independence has revitalized the language: since 1991, when Slovenia gained independence, Slovene has been used as an official language in all areas of public life. In 2004 it became one of the official languages of the European Union upon Slovenia's admission.\n\nJoža Mahnič, a literary historian and president of the publishing house \"Slovenska matica\", said in February 2008 that Slovene is a language rich enough to express everything, including the most sophisticated and specialised texts. In February 2010, Janez Dular, a prominent Slovenian linguist, commented that, although Slovene is not an endangered language, its scope has been shrinking, especially in science and higher education.\n\nThe language is spoken by about 2.5 million people, mainly in Slovenia, but also by Slovene national minorities in Friuli-Venezia Giulia, Italy (around 90,000 in Venetian Slovenia, Resia Valley, Canale Valley, Province of Trieste and in those municipalities of the Province of Gorizia bordering with Slovenia), in southern Carinthia and some parts of Styria in Austria (25,000). It is also spoken in Croatia, especially in Istria, Rijeka and Zagreb (11,800-13,100), in southwestern Hungary (3-5,000), in Serbia (5,000), and by the Slovene diaspora throughout Europe and the rest of the world (around 300,000), particularly in the United States (most notably Ohio, home to an estimated 3,400 speakers), Canada, Argentina, Australia and South Africa.\n\nSlovene is sometimes characterized as the most diverse Slavic language in terms of dialects, with different degrees of mutual intelligibility. Accounts of the number of dialects range from as few as seven dialects, often considered dialect groups or dialect bases that are further subdivided into as many as 50 dialects. Other sources characterize the number of dialects as nine or eight. The Slovene proverb \"Every village has its own voice\" (\"Vsaka vas ima svoj glas\") depicts the differences in dialects. Although pronunciation differs greatly from area to area, those differences do not pose major obstacles to understanding. The standard language is mainly used in public presentations or on formal occasions.\n\nThe Prekmurje dialect used to have a written norm of its own at one point. The Resian dialects have an independent written norm that is used by their regional state institutions. Speakers of those two dialects have considerable difficulties with being understood by speakers of other varieties of Slovene, needing code-switching to Standard Slovene. Other dialects are mutually intelligible when speakers avoid the excessive usage of regionalisms.\n\nRegionalisms are mostly limited to culinary and agricultural expressions, although there are many exceptions. Some loanwords have become so deeply rooted in the local language that people have considerable difficulties in finding a standard expression for the dialect term (for instance, \"kovter\" meaning blanket is \"prešita odeja\" in Standard Slovene, but the latter term is \"never\" used in speech). Southwestern dialects incorporate a great deal of calques and loanwords from Italian, whereas eastern and northwestern dialects are replete with lexemes of German origin. Usage of such words hinders intelligibility between dialects and is greatly discouraged in formal situations.\n\nSlovene has a phoneme set consisting of 21 consonants and 8 vowels.\n\nSlovene has 21 distinctive consonant phonemes.\n\nAll voiced obstruents are devoiced at the end of words unless immediately followed by a word beginning with a vowel or a voiced consonant. In consonant clusters, voicing distinction is neutralized and all consonants assimilate the voicing of the rightmost segment. In this context, , and may occur as voiced allophones of , and , respectively (e.g. \"vŕh drevésa\" ).\n\n\nThe sequences , and occur only before a vowel. Before a consonant or word-finally, they are reduced to , and respectively. This is reflected in the spelling in the case of , but not for and .\n\nUnder certain (somewhat unpredictable) circumstances, at the end of a syllable may become , merging with the allophone of in that position.\n\nSlovene has an eight-vowel (or, according to Peter Jurgec, nine-vowel) system, in comparison to the five-vowel system of Serbo-Croatian.\n\nSlovene nouns retain six of the seven Slavic noun cases: nominative, accusative, genitive, dative, locative and instrumental. There is no distinct vocative; the nominative is used in that role. Nouns, adjectives and pronouns have three numbers: singular, plural and a special dual form that indicates exactly two objects.\n\nNouns in Slovene are either masculine, feminine or neuter gender. In addition, there is a distinction between animate and inanimate nouns, although this is only relevant for masculine nouns and only in the singular. Animate nouns have an accusative singular form that is identical to the genitive, while for inanimate nouns the accusative singular is the same as the nominative. Animacy is based mostly on semantics and is less rigid than gender. Generally speaking a noun is animate if it refers to something that is generally thought to have free will or the ability to move of its own accord. This includes all nouns for people and animals. All other nouns are inanimate, including plants and other non-moving life forms, and also groups of people or animals. However, there are some nouns for inanimate objects that are generally animate, which mostly include inanimate objects that are named after people or animals. This includes:\n\nSlovene, like most other European languages, has a T–V distinction, or two forms of 'you' for formal and informal situations, respectively. Although informal address using the 2nd person singular \"ti\" form (known as \"tikanje\") is officially limited to friends and family, talk among children, and addressing animals, it is increasingly used among the middle generation to signal a relaxed attitude or lifestyle instead of its polite or formal counterpart using the 2nd person plural \"vi\" form (known as \"vikanje\").\n\nAn additional nonstandard but widespread use of a singular participle combined with a plural auxiliary verb (known as \"polvikanje\") signals a somewhat more friendly and less formal attitude while maintaining politeness:\n\n\nThe use of nonstandard forms (\"polvikanje\") might be frowned upon by many people and would not likely be used in a formal setting.\n\nThe use of the 3rd person plural \"oni\" ('they') form (known as \"onikanje\" in both direct address and indirect reference; this is similar to using \"Sie\" in German) as an ultra-polite form is now archaic or dialectal. It is associated with servant-master relationships in older literature, the child-parent relationship in certain conservative rural communities, and parishioner-priest relationships.\n\nForeign words used in Slovene are of various types depending on the assimilation they have undergone. The types are:\nThe loanwords are mostly from German and Italian, while the more recently borrowed and less assimilated words are typically from English.\n\nThere are no definite or indefinite articles as in English (\"a\", \"an\", \"the\") or German (\"der\", \"die\", \"das\", \"ein\", \"eine\"). A whole verb or a noun is described without articles and the grammatical gender is found from the word's termination. It is enough to say \"barka\" (\"a\" or \"the barge\"), \"Noetova barka\" ('Noah's ark'). The gender is known in this case to be feminine. In declensions, endings are normally changed; see below. If one should like to somehow distinguish between definiteness or indefiniteness of a noun, one would say \"(prav/natanko/ravno) tista barka\" ('that (exact) barge') for \"the barge\" and \"neka/ena barka\" ('one barge') for \"a barge\".\n\nDefiniteness of a noun phrase can also be discernible through the ending of the accompanying adjective. One should say \"rdeči šotor\" ([exactly that] red tent) or \"rdeč šotor\" ([a] red tent). This difference is observable only for masculine nouns in nominative or accusative case. Because of the lack of article in Slovene and audibly insignificant difference between the masculine adjective forms, most dialects do not distinguish between definite and indefinite variants of the adjective, leading to hypercorrection when speakers try to use Standard Slovenian.\n\nThis alphabet () was derived in the mid-1840s from the system created by Croatianist Ljudevit Gaj. Intended for the Serbo-Croatian language (in all its varieties), it was patterned on the Czech alphabet of the 1830s. Before that was, for example, written as , or ; as , , or ; sometimes as as a relic from the now modern Russian yery character, usually transliterated as \"y\"; as ; as ; as ; as , or .\n\nThe standard Slovene orthography, used in almost all situations, uses only the letters of the ISO basic Latin alphabet plus , , and :\n\nThe orthography thus underdifferentiates several phonemic distinctions:\n\n\nIn the tonemic varieties of Slovene, the ambiguity is even worse: \"e\" in a final syllable can stand for any of (although is rare).\n\nThe reader is expected to gather the interpretation of the word from the context, as in these examples:\n\n\nTo compensate for the shortcomings of the standard orthography, Slovene also uses standardized diacritics or accent marks to denote stress, vowel length and pitch accent, much like the closely related Serbo-Croatian. However, as in Serbo-Croatian, use of such accent marks is restricted to dictionaries, language textbooks and linguistic publications. In normal writing, the diacritics are almost never used, except in a few minimal pairs where real ambiguity could arise.\n\nTwo different and mutually incompatible systems of diacritics are used. The first is the simpler non-tonemic system, which can be applied to all Slovene dialects. It is more widely used and is the standard representation in dictionaries such as SSKJ. The tonemic system also includes tone as part of the representation. However, neither system reliably distinguishes schwa from the front mid-vowels, nor vocalised l from regular l . Some sources write these as \"ə\" and \"ł\" respectively, but this is not as common.\n\nIn the non-tonemic system, the distinction between the two mid-vowels is indicated, as well as the placement of stress and length of vowels:\n\n\nThe tonemic system uses the diacritics somewhat differently from the non-tonemic system. The high-mid vowels and are written \"ẹ ọ\" with a subscript dot, while the low-mid vowels and are written as plain \"e o\".\n\nPitch accent and length is indicated by four diacritical marks:\n\n\nThe schwa vowel is written ambiguously as \"e\", but its accentuation will sometimes distinguish it: a long vowel mark can never appear on a schwa, while a grave accent can appear only on a schwa. Thus, only \"ȅ\" and unstressed \"e\" are truly ambiguous.\n\nStandard Slovene spelling and grammar are defined by the Orthographic Committee and the Fran Ramovš Institute of the Slovenian Language, which are both part of the Slovenian Academy of Sciences and Arts (\"Slovenska akademija znanosti in umetnosti\", SAZU). The newest reference book of standard Slovene spelling (and to some extent also grammar) is the \"Slovenski pravopis\" (\"SP2001\"; Slovene Normative Guide). The latest printed edition was published in 2001 (reprinted in 2003 with some corrections) and contains more than 130,000 dictionary entries. In 2003, an electronic version was published.\n\nThe official dictionary of modern Slovene, which was also prepared by SAZU, is \"Slovar slovenskega knjižnega jezika\" (\"SSKJ\"; Standard Slovene Dictionary). It was published in five volumes by Državna Založba Slovenije between 1970 and 1991 and contains more than 100,000 entries and subentries with accentuation, part-of-speech labels, common collocations, and various qualifiers. In the 1990s, an electronic version of the dictionary was published and it is available online.\n\nThe SAZU considers SP2001 to be the normative source on Slovenian language. When dictionary entries in SP2001 and SSKJ differ, the SP2001 entry takes precedence. SP2001 is called a Spelling Dictionary by the European Network of e-Lexicography.\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "35624839", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35624839", "title": "Stanisław Baczyński", "text": "Stanisław Baczyński\n\nStanisław Baczyński aka \"Adam Kersten\", \"Bittner\", \"Akst\" (27 July 1890 in Lwów – 27 July 1939 in Warsaw, Poland) was a Polish writer, literary critic, journalist, soldier of the Polish Legions and captain of the Polish Army. Father of Krzysztof Kamil Baczyński.\n\n"}
{"id": "51723765", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51723765", "title": "The Klingon Way", "text": "The Klingon Way\n\nThe Klingon Way: A Warrior's Guide (Klingon: tlhIngan tIgh: SuvwI' DevmeH paq) is a 1996 book by the linguist Marc Okrand that was published by Pocket Books. \"The Klingon Way\" is a collection of proverbs and sayings in the constructed language of Klingon, ascribed to the Klingon race and Klingon culture in the fictional \"Star Trek\" universe. Okrand first began constructing the Klingon language in the 1980s when he was hired to produce Klingon dialogue for \"\", going on to publish \"The Klingon Dictionary\". \"The Klingon Way\" expanded the Klingon lexicon, and was followed by \"Klingon for the Galactic Traveller\".\n\nAn audiobook version of \"The Klingon Way\", featuring the voices of Michael Dorn and Roxann Dawson, was produced by Simon & Schuster Audio. The Klingon Language Institute considers \"The Klingon Way\" to be a canonical source of the Klingon language, and the book, along with Okrand's other work on the subject, has become highly important for a section of the \"Star Trek\" fandom.\n\nKlingons were introduced as antagonists in \"\", though were portrayed as less villainous in subsequent \"Star Trek\" television programs—including \"\", \"\"—and \"Star Trek\" films. The Klingon language was sometimes spoken on-screen early in the franchise's history, but became more formalised in the 1980s. Marc Okrand, a professional linguist who had previously been consulted concerning the Vulcan language for \"\" (1982), was hired to produce some dialogue in the Klingon language for \"\" (1984). Okrand based the language on the guttural sounds made by James Doohan that were used for the Klingon language in \"\" (1979), as well as the requests made of him that the language have a guttural quality, that it would \"sound good\", and that it would have a genuine, realistic syntax, grammar and lexicon.\n\nOkrand went on to author \"The Klingon Dictionary\" (1985). This book became significant to \"Star Trek\" fans, and a group of Klingon enthusiasts formed the Klingon Language Institute. This group began, in 1992, to publish \"HolQeD\" (\"Linguistics\"), a scholarly journal devoted to the study of the Klingon language. Okrand also produced two audio tapes, \"Conversational Klingon\" and \"Power Klingon\".\n\nThe existing lexicon of Klingon was expanded with the publication of Okrand's \"The Klingon Way\" in 1996. Okrand includes a number of linguistic jokes in his books on Klingon. For example, he has described his development of the Klingon language with reference to \"Das Boot\" (1981), saying that he imagined Klingons as similar to the film's characters: \"I pictured the Klingons in the same way, in tight quarters all barking at each other.\" Consequently, the Klingon word meaning \"boot\" is \"DaS\".\n\n\"The Klingon Way\" contains an Introduction, Annotations, and 157 proverbs and locutions, with a number of additional proverbs or their modifications found in the descriptions. The book is not arranged in alphabetic order (neither in Klingon or English) and has no index or table of contents. The book presents English translations of the proverbs (called the Federation Standard versions) with their Klingon originals, along with explanation stories and footnote references to the \"Star Trek\" series episodes up to \"\" and from the films up to \"\". The book includes photos from \"Star Trek\" episodes and films, but does not reference the \"Star Trek\" novels.\n\nEntry headings sometimes present more than one related proverb. The description stories explain the role of the given proverb in Klingon culture; they sometimes explain language usage of specific Klingon words or particular grammatical form, and also sometimes present additional related proverbs.\n\nFor example, the proverb \"Heghlu'meH QaQ jajvam\" (\"It is a good day to die\") is illustrated with a story explaining that \"This is an extremely common Klingon locution, often uttered when the odds seem to favor an opponent. It does not, however, represent a defeatist attitude.\" Further, the book notes that \"Kang, of course, spoke ironically when, accepting the proposition that there was a chance to defeat an adversary, he altered this expression to 'It is a good day to live'.\" The footnotes point out that this proverb was used in \"The Next Generation\" episode \"\" and in the \"Deep Space Nine\" episode \"\". The image for this entry shows \"Koloth encountering a guard for the Albino and teaching him a proverb\".\n\nCommon locutions include \"lumbe' tlhInganpu\" (\"Klingons do not procrastinate\"), \"utbe' bel.\" (\"Pleasure is nonessential\") and \"QI'tomerDaq Heghpu' Hoch\" (\"No one survived Khitomer\"). Toasts and wishes include \"tlhIngan maH!\" (\"We are Klingons!\"), \"batlh ghob yIpab\" (\"Adhere to virtue honorably.\"), and \"batlh bIHeghjaj!\" (\"May you die well!\").\n\nThe book has been noted for including a recipe for \"Duani lizard skins\", as well as lyrics to the \"Warrior's Anthem\", but these are found in the \"Klingon for the Galactic Traveller\", not in \"The Klingon Way\".\n\nAn audiobook version of \"The Klingon Way\", with a running time of 75 minutes, was released by Simon & Schuster Audio. It featured the voices of Michael Dorn and Roxann Dawson, known for playing, respectively, the Klingon Worf in \"The Next Generation\" and the half-Klingon B'Elanna Torres in \"Voyager\". The actors read the book's phrases in the Klingon language and explain the significance of them.\n\nA review of the book, concentrating on the new vocabulary and the specific grammatical features, by was published by Rich \"Captain Krankor\" Yampell in \"HolQeD\", and was later republished in his \"The Grammarian's Desk: A Collection of Grammatical Opinion & Wisdom of the Warrior's Tongue\", edited by Lawrence M. Schoen. Reviewing the audiobook version of \"The Klingon Way\" for the \"Calgary Herald\", the freelance columnist Grant McKenzie said that \"If you've ever wanted to toss some conversational Klingon into a friendly chat, this audio will quickly have you up to speed and make you the hit of the next Trekker convention. Non-Trekkers, on the other hand, won't have a clue what they're listening to.\"\n\nOkrand went on to produce \"Klingon for the Galactic Traveller\" (1997), a second major expansion of the Klingon language. This work presents an overview of Klingon culture as depicted in the Klingon language, containing several more Klingon proverbs and locutions, and may be considered a companion book to \"The Klingon Way\". The Klingon Language Institute considers both to be canonical sources of the Klingon language, holding that only Okrand's work can be considered canonical. Okrand's various works have become highly significant to some \"Star Trek\" fans, who sometimes take them very seriously. The novelist and researcher Michael Hemmingson, in his 2009 study of \"Star Trek\", explained that \"\"The Klingon Dictionary\" (1992) and \"The Klingon Way\" (1995) were embraced with relish by Trekkies, resulting in a curious subculture within the fandom: people speaking the language and recreating—or engaging in simulation of hyper-reality—Klingon culture and rituals, as represented in the movies and \"The Next Generation\", into their everyday lives\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "876705", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=876705", "title": "Tilt up", "text": "Tilt up\n\nTilt-up, tilt-slab or tilt-wall is a type of building and a construction technique using concrete. Though it is a cost-effective technique with a shorter completion time, poor performance in earthquakes has mandated significant seismic retrofit requirements in older buildings.\n\nWith the tilt-up method, concrete elements (walls, columns, structural supports, etc.) are formed horizontally on a concrete slab; this normally requires the building floor as a building form but may be a temporary concrete casting surface near the building footprint. After the concrete has cured, the elements are \"tilted\" to the vertical position with a crane and braced into position until the remaining building structural components (roofs, intermediate floors and walls) are secured.\n\nTilt-up construction is a common method of construction throughout North America, several Caribbean nations, Australia, and New Zealand. It is not significantly used in Europe or the northern two thirds of Asia. It is gaining popularity in southern Asia, the Middle East, parts of Africa, Central and South America.\n\nConcrete elements can also be formed at factories away from the building site. Tilt-up differs from prefabrication, or plant cast construction, in that all elements are constructed on the job site. This eliminates the size limitation imposed by transporting elements from a factory to the project site.\n\nTilt-up construction requires significant organization and collaboration on the building site. The chronological steps that need to be taken for a tilt-up project are: site evaluation, engineering, footings and floor slabs, forming tilt-up panels, steel placement, embeds and inserts, concrete placement, panel erection and panel finishing. Once the pad (casting surface or floor slab) has cured, forms are built on top. Dimensional lumber, a high quality plywood or fiber board that has at least one smooth face is typically used, although aluminum or steel forms are also common. Carpenters work from engineered drawings designed for each panel or element to construct on site. They incorporate all door and window openings, as well as architectural features and other desired shapes that can be molded into the concrete. Studs, gussets and attachment plates are located within the form for embedding in the concrete. The forms are usually anchored to the casting surface with masonry nails or otherwise adhered to prevent damage to the floor slab.\n\nNext, a chemically reactive bondbreaker is sprayed on the form's surfaces to prevent the cast concrete from bonding with the slab. This allows the cast element to separate from the casting surface once it has cured. This is a critical step, as improper chemical selection or application will prevent the lifting of the panels, and will entail costly demolition and rework.\n\nA rebar grid is constructed inside the forms, after the form release is applied, spaced off the casting surface the desired distance with plastic \"chairs\". The rebar size and spacing is generally specified by the engineer of record.\n\nConcrete is then poured, filling the desired thickness and surrounding all steel inserts, embedded features and rebar. The forms are removed when the concrete is cured; rigging is attached and a crane tilts the panel or lifts the element into place. In circumstances when space is at a premium, concrete elements can be cast one on top of the other, or stack cast. Quite often a separate casting pad is poured for this purpose and is removed when the panels are erected.\n\nCranes are used to tilt the concrete elements from the casting slab to a vertical position. The slabs are then most often set onto a foundation and secured with braces until the structural steel and the roof diaphragm is in place.\n\nConcrete tilt-up walls can be very heavy, as much as or more. Most tilt-up wall panels are engineered to work with the roof structure and/or floor structures to resist all forces; that is, to function as load-bearing walls. The connections to the roof and floors are usually steel plates with headed studs that were secured into the forms prior to concrete placement. These attachment points are bolted or welded. The upper attachment points are made to the roof trusses. Interior walls may be present for additional stiffness in the building structure as necessary, known as shear walls.\n\nInsulation can be applied to either side of the panels or cast as an integral part of the panel between two layers of concrete to create sandwich panels. Concrete has the ability to absorb and store energy and is high mass, which regulates interior temperature (thermal mass) and provides soundproofing and durability.\n\nLike all concrete construction, tilt-up buildings are fire-resistant. In addition, wall panels can be designed to sag inward when damaged, which minimizes collapse (this can also be done with prefabricated panels).\n\nTilt-up was first used in America circa 1905. In 1908 Robert Akin patented the tilt-slab method of concrete construction used in the construction of the Schindler House. Early erection was done using tilt tables, but the development of the mobile crane and truck mixers allowed tilt-up construction to grow. Tilt-up gained widespread popularity in the post World War II construction boom. Tilt-up was not used successfully in Australia until 1969.\n\nMost early tilt-up buildings were warehouses. Today the method is used in nearly every type of building from schools to office structures, houses to hotels. They range from single story to more than seven and can be more than 29 metres (96 feet) in height.\n\nAn early example of this method is found in the innovative Schindler House, built in 1922 in West Hollywood, California. Architect Rudolf Schindler claimed that with the assistance of a small hand-operated crane, just two workmen were needed to raise and attach the tilt-up walls.\n\nThe first Tilt-Up built home in Ontario, Canada was built in 2017.\n\nEarly tilt-up architecture was very minimalist and boxy. Recent techniques have expanded the range of appearance and shape.\n\nMany finish options are available to the tilt-up contractor, from paints and stains to pigmented concrete, cast-in features like brick and stone to aggressive erosion finishes like sandblasting and acid-etching. Shapes are also a feature that have become dominant in the tilt-up market, with many panels configured with circular or elliptical openings, panel tops that are pedimented or curved, facades that are curved or segmented and featured with significant areas of glazing or other materials.\n\nThe Tilt-Up Concrete Association (TCA) is the international trade association for tilt-up concrete construction. TCA is a membership-based association, with nearly 500 members worldwide. TCA members can be contractors (general contractors or tilt-up subcontractors), engineers, architects, developers, consultants, suppliers, specialty trade firms, educators and students.\n\nTCA offers primarily educational, networking and exposure benefits to its members. TCA also offers an Achievement Awards program annually, recognizing the best examples of tilt-up construction over a variety of end uses.\n\nIn the wake of the 2011 Joplin tornado in which seven people were killed in a Home Depot when the panel walls collapsed after the store was hit by an EF5 tornado, engineers in an article published in \"The Kansas City Star\" criticized the practice. They said that once one wall falls, it creates a domino effect. Twenty-eight people in an un-reinforced training room in the back of the building survived. According to a study of the collapse, the tornado hit the south corner of the store and lifted the roof up causing the west walls to collapse into the store. The walls on the east side (where the people survived) collapsed out. Only two walls remained standing. Engineers said that stronger roof-to-wall connections might have tempered the collapse. Two other big box stores at the corner that had concrete block construction (an Academy Sports and Walmart) lost their roofs but the walls remained intact. Those buildings were not directly hit by the tornado but the Home Depot building suffered a direct hit. Three people died in the Walmart, but 200 survived. The engineers told the Star that when concrete blocks fail they usually break apart, and do not come down in huge slabs. Home Depot, which has hundreds of stores built with tilt-up, said it disagreed with the finding and that it would use tilt-up when it rebuilt the Joplin store.\n\nShortly after publication of the Kansas City Star article, the technical committee of the Tilt-Up Concrete Association (TCA) formed a task force to investigate the claims presented in the article. With the cooperation of Home Depot, the task group performed detailed engineering calculations, research and investigation of the claims posed in the article. This task force consisted of a nationwide group of practicing structural engineers with a diverse range of experience in tilt-up construction and \"big box\" buildings. The final report was published on January 12, 2012. “The information provided in these findings will help Association efforts to promote the benefits of site cast Tilt-Up construction and dispute many of the claims presented in The Kansas City Star article.\"\n\nOne of the conclusions of the Task Force's report was \"Recommend to ICC and direct\nto building owners the use of storm shelters in lieu of designing buildings for high\nwinds. The TCA should develop specific Tilt-Up based storm shelter designs for winds\nof up to 200 MPH that would compete against alternative masonry, precast, or\ncast-in-place designs. Storm shelter design is addressed in 2009 IBC, section 423 and ICC-500.\"\n\n\n"}
{"id": "58065117", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58065117", "title": "Trevor Cope", "text": "Trevor Cope\n\nAnthony Trevor Cope was professor of Zulu at the University of Natal. He edited Harry Camp Lugg's translation of Magema Magwaza Fuze's \"Abantu Abamnyama\" (1922) into English which was published by the University of Natal Press in 1979 as \"The Black People and Whence They Came\".\n\n"}
{"id": "47332641", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47332641", "title": "V. M. Devadas", "text": "V. M. Devadas\n\nV. M. Devadas (born March 1981) is a Malayalam novelist, short-story writer and screenwriter from Wadakkancherry, Kerala, India. He is presently working in an IT company in Chennai.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "52581912", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52581912", "title": "Yatindra Mishra", "text": "Yatindra Mishra\n\nYatindra Mishra (यतीन्द्र मिश्र) is an Indian poet, editor, music and cinema scholar.\n\nHe has published four collections of Hindi poetry: \"Yada-Kada\" (1997), \"Ayodhya Tatha Anya Kavitayen\" (1999), \"Dyorhi Par Aalaap\" (2005) and \"Vibhas\" (2013).\n\nHe has also written \"Girija\" (2001), \"Devpriya\" (2007) and \"Sur Ki Baradari\" (2009) about the life and work of thumri singer Girija Devi, dancer Sonal Mansingh and shehnai maestro Ustad Bismillah Khan. \"Vismaya Ka Bhakhan\" (2012) is an essay compilation on music and arts.\n\nHe has edited selections from the poetry of Ajneya-Jitna Tumhara Sach Hai (2011), prose of Ashok Vajpeyee \"Kis Bhugol Mein Kis Sapne Mein\" (2011) and Poetry Hum Apna Vasant Pahchante Hain (2014), Poetry of Gulzar Yaar Julaahe (2009). He has also presented a selection of Gulzar's film lyrics, \"Meelon Se Din\" (2010). He has also written a book about cinema's musical journey titled \"Humsafar\" (2013).\n\nHe has published a book on playback singer Lata Mangeshkar based on a series of interview spanning over a period of seven years titled \"Lata : Sur-Gatha\" (2016). He has also edited veteran Hindi literature Kunwar Narayan's works- \"Kunwar Narain : Samsaar & Upasthiti\" (2002), \"Kai Samayon Mein\" (2012) as well as on Dishaon Ka Khula Aakash (2012). His publication \"Bhairavi\" (2012) is a recreation of Kannada saiva poet Akka Mahadevi’s vacanas in Hindi.\n\nHe has translated ‘Girija’ into English and 'Vibhas', Ayodhya series of poems (German), ‘Yaar Julahey’ and 'Meelon Se Din' in Urdu.\n\nHe has edited arts and culture magazines 'Sahit' and ‘Thatee’. He is also an editor of Music Journal 'Swar Mudra', a magazine of Raza Foundation, New Delhi. He has compiled a special supplement about the music of Lata Mangeshkar for Tehelka Magazine in September, 2011 in connection with her 83rd birthday.\n\nYatindra has traveled to the United States of America, Britain, Mauritius and Abu Dhabi to participate in various cultural symposium. Article based on the life and music of the late shehnai maestro Ustad Bismillah Khan is included in the textbook for Std.X by NCERT, Delhi.\n\n\n1. यतीन्द्र मिश्र / परिचय \n2. Yatindra Mishra - Kavita Kosh \n3. Yatindra Mishra - Facebook\n4. AajTak - Yatindra Mishra and Lata Mangeshkar - Lata Sur Gatha\n"}
{"id": "739314", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=739314", "title": "Yehoshua Bar-Hillel", "text": "Yehoshua Bar-Hillel\n\nYehoshua Bar-Hillel (; 8 September 1915, Vienna – 25 September 1975, Jerusalem) was an Israeli philosopher, mathematician, and linguist. He is perhaps best known for his pioneering work in machine translation and formal linguistics.\n\nBorn Oscar Westreich in Vienna, Austria-Hungary, he was raised in Berlin. In 1933 he emigrated to Palestine with the Bnei Akiva youth movement, and briefly joined the kibbutz Tirat Zvi before settling in Jerusalem and marrying Shulamith.\n\nDuring World War II, he served in the Jewish Brigade of the British Army. He fought with the Haganah during the Israeli War of Independence, losing an eye.\n\nBar-Hillel received his PhD in Philosophy from the Hebrew University where he also studied mathematics under Abraham Fraenkel, with whom he eventually coauthored \"Foundations of Set Theory\" (1958, 1973).\n\nBar-Hillel was a major disciple of Rudolf Carnap, whose \"Logical Syntax of Language\" much influenced him. He began a correspondence with Carnap in the 1940s, which led to a 1950 postdoc under Carnap at the University of Chicago, and to his collaborating on Carnap's 1952 \"An Outline of the Theory of Semantic Information\".\n\nBar-Hillel then took up a position at MIT, where he was the first academic to work full-time in the field of Machine Translation. Bar-Hillel organised the first International Conference on Machine Translation in 1952. Later he expressed doubts that general-purpose fully automatic high-quality machine translation would ever be feasible. He was also a pioneer in the field of information retrieval.\n\nIn 1953, Bar-Hillel joined the philosophy department at the Hebrew University, where he taught until his death at age 60. His teachings and writings strongly influenced an entire generation of Israeli philosophers and linguists, including Asa Kasher and Avishai Margalit. In 1953, he founded a pioneering algebraic-computational linguistic group, and in 1961 he contributed to the proof of the pumping lemma for context-free languages (sometimes called the Bar-Hillel lemma). Bar-Hillel helped found the Hebrew University's department of Philosophy of Science. From 1966 to 1969 Bar-Hillel presided over the Division for Logic, Methodology and Philosophy of Science of the\nInternational Union of History and Philosophy of Science.\nBar-Hillel's daughter Maya Bar-Hillel is a cognitive psychologist at the Hebrew University, known for her collaborations with Amos Tversky and for her role in critiquing Bible code study. His other daughter, Mira Bar-Hillel, is a freelance journalist who has worked for the \"London Evening Standard\". His granddaughter, Gili Bar-Hillel, is the Hebrew translator of the Harry Potter series of books.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "44290964", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44290964", "title": "Zalizne", "text": "Zalizne\n\nZalizne (, formerly Artemove (, ) is a city in Toretsk municipality, Donetsk Oblast (province) of Ukraine. Population: ; 6,725 (2001).\n\nOn 19 May 2016, Artemove was renamed Zalizne conform to the law prohibiting names of Communist origin.\n\nNative language as of the Ukrainian Census of 2001:\n"}
