{"id": "20816182", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20816182", "title": "2010 African Championships in Athletics", "text": "2010 African Championships in Athletics\n\nThe 2010 African Championships in Athletics was held in Nairobi, Kenya from 28 July to 1 August 2010.\n\nThe African Championships in Athletics were held in Kenya for the first time. Previously two major athletics events have been held in Kenya, namely 1987 All-Africa Games and 2007 IAAF World Cross Country Championships.\n\nThe championships were awarded to Kenya at the April 2007 Confederation of African Athletics Congress in Dakar, Senegal. \n\nThe event was originally scheduled to be held from April 28 to May 2, 2010, but due to delayed preparations the event was moved forward. The Moi International Sports Centre was initially set to become the host venue, but it was later changed to the smaller Nyayo Stadium.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "54922198", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54922198", "title": "2013–14 Cuban National Series", "text": "2013–14 Cuban National Series\n\nThe 2013–14 Cuban National Series was the 53rd season of the league. Pinar del Río defeated Matanzas in the series' final round.\n"}
{"id": "17706128", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17706128", "title": "6+5 rule", "text": "6+5 rule\n\nThe 6+5 rule was a proposition for an association football rule adopted by FIFA during a meeting in May 2008, although it had been discussed since 1999. The idea was abandoned in June 2010.\n\nAt the beginning of each match, each club must field at least six players eligible to play for the national team of the country of the club. There is no restriction, however, on the number of non-eligible players under contract with the club, nor on substitutes to avoid non-sportive constraints on the coaches (potentially 3+8 at the end of a match).\n\nThe objective of this rule is to restore the national identity of football clubs who have increasingly resorted to fielding foreign players in their squad. It is also intended to reduce the increasing gap between the big and small football clubs.\n\nThe FIFA Congress, at its meeting in Sydney on 29 and 30 May 2008, decided to:\n\n\n\nThe objective is to have an incremental implementation starting at the beginning of the 2010–11 season to give clubs time to adjust their teams over a period of several years:\n\nThe 6+5 rule has on numerous occasions been described as illegal by the European Union and was rejected by the European Parliament on 9 May 2008.\nThe rule violates both Article 48 of the EC Treaty and the Bosman ruling. FIFA President Sepp Blatter met with representatives of European football leagues to explain the new rule and to garner support for it on 22 July 2008.\n\nAt an informal meeting of the European sports ministers in Biarritz on 27 and 28 November 2008, FIFA was again seeking support for its proposed rule. In a final declaration, the ministers expressed their wish to \"encourage further discussion on initiatives put forward by international federations to encourage the teams of professional clubs in each country to develop the presence of athletes capable of qualifying for national teams, in compliance with EU law, to strengthen the regional and national roots of professional sport.\"\n\nWhile FIFA expressed their satisfaction about the continuation of dialogue, EU commissioners repeated their standpoint that the \"6+5 rule is based on direct discrimination on the grounds of nationality, and is thus against one of the fundamental principles of EU law.\" Observers concluded that the status quo has not changed.\n\nThe independent Institute for European Affairs (INEA) had been commissioned by FIFA to investigate whether the rule was legal under current EU law. On 26 February 2009, the INEA released an expert opinion declaring the 6+5 rule \"can be implemented in line with European Community law.\"\n\nThe ruling has since been scrapped as of June 2010 as the European Commission had said such a proposal would contravene EU labour laws.\n\n"}
{"id": "28503426", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28503426", "title": "AB Mérouana", "text": "AB Mérouana\n\nAmel Baladiet Mérouana (), known as AB Mérouana or simply ABM for short, is an Algerian Football club based in Merouana in Batna Province. The club was founded in 1933.The club was founded in 1933 and its colours are yellow and black. Their home stadium, Stade Abderrahmene Bensaci, has a capacity of 10,000 spectators. The club is currently playing in the Ligue Nationale du Football Amateur.\n\n"}
{"id": "28882454", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28882454", "title": "Adelaide leak", "text": "Adelaide leak\n\nThe Adelaide leak was the revelation to the press of a dressing-room incident during the third Test, a cricket match played during the 1932–33 Ashes series between Australia and England, more commonly known as the Bodyline series. During the course of play on 14 January 1933, the Australian Test captain Bill Woodfull was struck over the heart by a ball delivered by Harold Larwood. Although not badly hurt, Woodfull was shaken and dismissed shortly afterwards. On his return to the Australian dressing room, Woodfull was visited by the managers of the Marylebone Cricket Club (MCC) team, Pelham Warner and Richard Palairet. Warner enquired after Woodfull's health, but the latter dismissed his concerns in brusque fashion. He said he did not want to speak to the Englishman owing to the Bodyline tactics England were using, leaving Warner embarrassed and shaken. The matter became public knowledge when someone present leaked the exchange to the press and it was widely reported on 16 January. Such leaks to the press were practically unknown at the time, and the players were horrified that the confrontation became public knowledge.\n\nIn the immediate aftermath, many people assumed Jack Fingleton, the only full-time journalist on either team, was responsible. This belief may have affected the course of his subsequent career. Fingleton later wrote that Donald Bradman, Australia's star batsman and the primary target of Bodyline, was the person who disclosed the story. Bradman always denied this, and continued to blame Fingleton; animosity between the pair continued for the rest of their lives. Woodfull's earlier public silence on the tactics had been interpreted as approval; the leak was significant in persuading the Australian public that Bodyline was unacceptable.\n\nIn 1932–33 the English team, led by Douglas Jardine and jointly managed by Pelham Warner and Richard Palairet, toured Australia and won the Ashes in an acrimonious contest that became known as the Bodyline series. The English team used contentious bowling tactics where the English pace bowlers Harold Larwood, Bill Voce and Bill Bowes bowled the ball roughly on the line of leg stump. The deliveries were often short-pitched, designed to rise at the batsman's body, with four or five fielders close by on the leg side waiting to catch deflections off the bat. Intended to be intimidating, the tactics proved difficult for batsmen to counter and were physically threatening. The primary target of Bodyline was Donald Bradman, who had overwhelmed the English bowling in the 1930 Ashes series. Leading English cricketers and administrators feared that Bradman would be unstoppable on good Australian batting wickets in 1932–33, and looked for possible weaknesses in his batting technique.\n\nFollowing Jardine's appointment as England captain in July 1932, he developed a plan based on his belief that Bradman was weak against bowling directed at leg stump and that if this line of attack could be maintained, it would restrict Bradman's scoring to one side of the field, giving the bowlers greater control of his scoring. In a meeting, he outlined his plan to Larwood and Voce, who tried out the tactic in the remainder of the season with mixed success. Both Nottinghamshire fast bowlers were selected to tour, as was Yorkshire bowler Bill Bowes who had tried similar tactics at the end of the season. In one match, he bowled short at Jack Hobbs; in his capacity as cricket correspondent of \"The Morning Post\", Warner was highly critical of the Yorkshire bowlers and Bowes in particular. These remarks were seized upon by Australian opponents of Bodyline in the coming months. A fourth fast bowler, Middlesex amateur Gubby Allen, was later added to the tour. The selection of this many pace bowlers was unusual at the time, drawing comment from Australian writers, including Bradman.\n\nIn Australia, while Jardine's unfriendly approach and superior manner caused some friction with the press and spectators, the early tour matches were uncontroversial and Larwood and Voce had a light workload in preparation for the Test series. The first signs of trouble came in the match against a representative \"Australian XI\" at near full strength, in which the bowlers first used Bodyline tactics. Under the captaincy of Bob Wyatt (Jardine having rested from the match), the England attack bowled short and around leg stump, with fielders positioned close by on the leg side to catch any deflections. Wyatt later claimed this was not pre-planned and he simply informed Jardine what had happened. The Bodyline tactics continued in the next match and several players, including Jack Fingleton, were hit. The Australian press were shocked and criticised the hostility of Larwood in particular. Some former Australian players joined the criticism, saying the tactics were ethically wrong. However, at this stage, not everyone was opposed, and the Australian Board of Control believed the English team had bowled fairly. On the other hand, Jardine increasingly came into disagreement with tour manager Warner over Bodyline as the tour progressed. Warner hated Bodyline but would not speak out against it. He was accused of hypocrisy for not taking a stand on either side, particularly after expressing sentiments at the start of the tour that cricket \"has become a synonym for all that is true and honest. To say 'that is not cricket' implies something underhand, something not in keeping with the best ideals ... all who love it as players, as officials or spectators must be careful lest anything they do should do it harm.\"\nJardine's tactics were successful in one respect: in six innings against the tourists ahead of the Tests, Bradman scored only 103 runs, causing concern among the Australian public who expected much more from him. At the time, Bradman was in dispute with the Board of Control, who would not allow players to write in newspapers unless journalism was their full-time profession; Bradman, although not a journalist, had a contract to write for the Sydney \"Sun\". A particular irritation for Bradman was that Jack Fingleton, a full-time journalist, was allowed to write for the \"Telegraph Pictorial\", although he required permission from the Board to write about cricket. Bradman threatened to withdraw from the team unless the Board allowed him to write. Fingleton and Bradman were openly hostile towards each other. From their first meeting while playing together for New South Wales, they disliked each other. Fingleton, conscious that Bradman's self-possession and solitary nature made him unpopular with some teammates, kept his distance after a dressing room argument, while Bradman believed the more popular Fingleton had tried to turn the team against him. Later hostility arose from Bradman's public preference for Bill Brown as a batsman, which Fingleton believed cost him a place on the 1934 tour of England. Fingleton's writings on the Bodyline series further soured the relationship. Bradman believed some of the differences stemmed from religion; Fingleton was a Roman Catholic, Bradman an Anglican.\n\nBradman missed the first Test, worn out by constant cricket and the ongoing argument with the Board of Control. The English bowlers used Bodyline intermittently in the first match, to the crowd's vocal displeasure. Behind the scenes, administrators began to express concerns to each other. Yet the English tactics still did not earn universal disapproval; former Australian captain Monty Noble praised the English bowling. For the second Test, Bradman returned to the team after his newspaper employers released him from his contract. England continued to use Bodyline and Bradman was dismissed by his first ball in the first innings. In the second innings, against the full Bodyline attack, he scored an unbeaten century which helped Australia to win the match and level the series at one match each. Critics began to believe Bodyline was not quite the threat that had been perceived and Bradman's reputation, which had suffered slightly with his earlier failures, was restored. However, the pitch was slightly slower than others in the series, and Larwood was suffering from problems with his boots which reduced his effectiveness. Meanwhile, Woodfull was being encouraged to retaliate to the short-pitched English attack, not least by members of his own side such as Vic Richardson, but refused to consider doing so.\n\nDuring the mid-afternoon of Saturday 14 January 1933, the second day of the Third Test, Woodfull and Fingleton opened the batting for Australia in the face of an England total of 341 before a record attendance of 50,962 people. Fingleton was caught by the wicketkeeper without scoring. The third over of the innings was bowled by Larwood with fielders still in orthodox positions. The fifth ball narrowly missed Woodfull's head and the final ball, delivered short on the line of middle stump, struck Woodfull over the heart. The batsman dropped his bat and staggered away holding his chest, bent over in pain. The England players surrounded Woodfull to offer sympathy but the crowd began to protest noisily. Jardine called to Larwood: \"Well bowled, Harold!\" Although the comment was aimed at unnerving Bradman, who was also batting at the time, Woodfull was appalled. Play resumed after a brief delay, once it was certain the Australian captain was fit to carry on, and since Larwood's over had ended, Woodfull did not have to face the bowling of Allen in the next over. However, when Larwood was ready to bowl at Woodfull again, play was halted once more when the fielders were moved into Bodyline positions, causing the crowd to protest and call abuse at the England team. Subsequently, Jardine claimed that Larwood requested a field change, Larwood said that Jardine had done so. Many commentators condemned the alteration of the field as unsporting, and the angry spectators became extremely volatile. Jardine, although writing that Woodfull could have retired hurt if he was unfit, later expressed his regret at making the field change at that moment. It is likely Jardine wished to press home his team's advantage in the match, and the Bodyline field was usually employed at this stage of an innings.\n\nShortly afterwards, a delivery from Larwood knocked Woodfull's bat from his hands and the Australian captain seemed unsettled. Two quick wickets fell before Ponsford joined Woodfull in the middle, but having been struck by short balls several more times, Woodfull was bowled by Allen for 22, having batted for an hour and a half. When a doctor was publicly requested, to attend an injury to Voce, many in the crowd believed it was Woodfull who required assistance, leading to a renewal of protest. In later years, Woodfull's wife believed that his injury at Adelaide was partly responsible for his death aged 67 in 1965.\n\nWarner learned from twelfth man Leo O'Brien that Woodfull was badly injured. Later in the afternoon, while Ponsford and Richardson were still batting, Warner and Palairet visited the Australian dressing room with the intention of enquiring about Woodfull's health. Accounts vary about what followed. According to the original newspaper reports and Fingleton's later description, Woodfull was lying on the masseur's table, awaiting treatment from a doctor, although this may have been an exaggeration for dramatic effect. Leo O'Brien described Woodfull as wearing a towel around his waist, having showered. Warner expressed sympathy to Woodfull but was surprised by the Australian's response. According to Warner, Woodfull replied, \"I don't want to see you, Mr Warner. There are two teams out there. One is trying to play cricket and the other is not.\" Fingleton wrote that Woodfull had added, \"This game is too good to be spoilt. It is time some people got out of it.\" Woodfull was usually dignified and quietly spoken, making his reaction surprising to Warner and others present. Warner recalled saying, \"Apart from all that, we most sincerely hope you are not too badly hurt,\" to which Woodfull replied, \"The bruise is coming out.\" Embarrassed and humiliated, Warner and Palairet turned and left. Fingleton noted that Woodfull spoke quietly and calmly, which increased the effectiveness of his words. He also pointed out that Warner prided himself on sportsmanship, so an accusation of \"not playing cricket\" would have stung the Englishman. Warner was so shaken that he was found in tears later that day in his hotel room.\n\nAccording to O'Brien, only he, Woodfull, the masseur (who was deaf), Alan Kippax, and former Australian Test players Jack Ryder and Ernie Jones were present when the incident took place, but most of the Australian team were watching the match from a balcony adjoining the dressing room from where they would have been able to hear the confrontation. O'Brien claimed that he went outside and told the group what had happened; around twenty people were present.\n\nLater that afternoon, Warner related the incident to Jardine, who replied that he \"couldn't care less\". The England captain then locked the dressing room doors and told the team what Woodfull had said and warned them not to speak to anyone concerning the matter. Warner later wrote to his wife that Woodfull had made \"a complete fool of himself\" and had been \"fanning the flames\".\n\nSunday being a rest day, there was no play. On Monday, the exchange between Warner and Woodfull was reported in several newspapers along with the description of Woodfull's injury. Most headlines were variations on \"Woodfull Protests\", and the most extensive accounts were by Claude Corbett in \"The Sun\" and \"The Daily Telegraph\". He wrote in the \"Telegraph\" that the \"fires which have been smouldering in the ranks of the Australian Test cricketers regarding the English shock attack suddenly burst into flames yesterday.\" Another newspaper, \"The Advertiser\" of Adelaide, claimed several members of the Australian team had repeated the story.\n\nThe players and officials were horrified that a sensitive private exchange had been reported to the press. Leaks to the press were practically unknown in 1933. David Frith notes that discretion and respect were highly prized and such a leak was \"regarded as a moral offence of the first order.\" Woodfull made it clear that he severely disapproved of the leak, and later wrote that he \"always expected cricketers to do the right thing by their team-mates.\" As the only full-time journalist in the Australian team, suspicion immediately fell on Fingleton, although as soon as the story was published, he told Woodfull he was not responsible. Warner offered Larwood a reward of one pound if he could dismiss Fingleton in the second innings; Larwood obliged by bowling him for a duck.\n\nLater, Warner issued a statement to the press that Woodfull had apologised for the incident and that \"we are now the best of friends\". Woodfull denied through Bill Jeanes, the Secretary of the Australian Board of Control, that he had expressed regret, but he had said there was no personal animosity between the two men.\n\nUntil he read Warner's \"Cricket Between Two Wars\" during the Second World War, Fingleton was unaware that Warner assumed he was responsible for the leak. When he found out, Fingleton wrote to Warner, who replied that although he believed Fingleton to be the source, he would publish a correction if presented with evidence to the contrary. Fingleton did not pursue the case. Australian cricketer Bill O'Reilly wrote that during the 1948 tour of England, he and Fingleton confronted Warner, who apologised as he no longer believed Fingleton to be the culprit. Fingleton thought the belief he was responsible cost him a place on the 1934 tour to England, although there were other possible factors in his exclusion. According to Fingleton, Woodfull later told him that the controversy had led to his missing selection. A letter which Woodfull wrote to Fingleton in 1943 stated \"I can assure you that I did not connect your name with the passing on of that conversation.\"\n\nIn his 1978 biography of Victor Trumper, Fingleton accused Bradman of relating Woodfull's words to the press. Fingleton claimed that Claude Corbett revealed the information to him. In Fingleton's version of events, Bradman telephoned Corbett during the night to arrange a meeting. Bradman wrote for Corbett's paper, Sydney's \"Sun\". Sitting in Corbett's car, Bradman told the journalist about the Warner–Woodfull incident. Corbett considered the story too important to keep to himself, so shared it with other journalists. Fingleton later added that \"Bradman would have saved me a lot of backlash ... had he admitted that he had given the leak. Part of his job was writing for the \"Sydney Sun\" and he had every right to leak such a vital story.\"\n\nBradman denied this version of events. In 1983, two years after Fingleton's death, a book written by Michael Page, with Bradman's close co-operation, blamed Fingleton for the leak and dismissed Fingleton's story concerning Bradman and Corbett as \"an absurd fabrication\", arising from a grudge against Bradman. The book pointed out that Fingleton only made the accusation after Corbett's death. Fingleton's executor, Malcolm Gemmell, summarised the evidence which supported Fingleton's accusation in a magazine article: that Bradman wrote for the \"Sun\", was the prime target of Bodyline, and had previously urged the Australian Board of Control to object to the tactic. Fingleton's brother supported the claim that Bradman was responsible, repeating in 1997 the alleged view of Corbett that Bradman provided the information. In 1995, Bradman was interviewed for television, and when asked about the source of the leak, responded sharply: \"It wasn't me!\" In the same year, a biography of Bradman, written with his close co-operation, by Roland Perry, said that Bradman had confronted Corbett to ask who leaked the story, to be told it was Fingleton.\n\nO'Reilly believed that Bradman, with whom he did not get along, was responsible, wishing to expose the English bowling he believed was designed to cause him physical injury. He also said Bradman was an expert at diverting blame. Cricket writer Ray Robinson wrote that many of the Australian team did not blame Fingleton, and they knew who met Corbett. In the early 1980s another journalist, Michael Davie, interviewed Ponsford who said that Woodfull never forgave Bradman for \"a couple of things\". Davie suggests that one of these may have been leaking the Adelaide story.\n\nGilbert Mant, a journalist who covered the tour, investigated the leak in the mid-1990s. He died in 1997, but had arranged for a summary of his findings to be sent to David Frith with a request not to publish the information before Bradman died. Mant believed the leak was not a serious crime and pointed out that any of the players except Ponsford and Richardson, who were batting at the time Warner entered the dressing room, could have leaked the story. Bradman, in correspondence with Mant in 1992, continued to blame Fingleton and would never forgive the \"dastardly lie he concocted about me\" and hoped Mant could clear Bradman's name. As part of his investigations, Mant contacted Corbett's family. Corbett died in 1944, and his son Mac said he never mentioned the leak. However, his daughter Helen related that Corbett had spoken to his wife about the affair. She had told Helen that Corbett had received the information from Bradman. Mant believed that while Corbett may have played a joke on Fingleton in naming the culprit, he would not have done so with his wife.\n\nMany commentators and cricketers deplored the use of Bodyline bowling. Some felt frustration that Woodfull had not publicly condemned the tactics, believing that his silence was interpreted as approval. Once his opinions were revealed by the leak, opponents of Bodyline felt publicly legitimised and expressed their opinions more freely. It also revealed deep and unaccustomed divisions between the teams which had been kept from view. The leak and subsequent events in the same match brought varied opinions from journalists and former players on Bodyline into the newspapers, both for and against Bodyline tactics.\n\nDuring the play on Monday, a short ball from Larwood fractured Bert Oldfield's skull, although Bodyline tactics were not being used at the time. The Australian Board of Control contacted the MCC managers Warner and Palairet asking them to arrange for the team to cease the use of Bodyline, but they replied the captain was solely in charge of the playing side of the tour. On the Wednesday of the game, the Australian Board sent a cable to the MCC which stated \"Bodyline bowling has assumed such proportions as to menace the best interests of the game, making protection of the body by the batsman the main consideration. This is causing intensely bitter feeling between the players, as well as injury. In our opinion it is unsportsmanlike. Unless stopped at once it is likely to upset the friendly relations existing between Australia and England.\" After England's victory in the match, Jardine went to the Australian dressing room but had the door closed in his face. Speaking to his team, Jardine offered to end the use of the tactics if the players opposed them, but they unanimously voted to continue. The report in \"Wisden Cricketers' Almanack\" stated it was probably the most unpleasant match ever played.\n\nJardine threatened to withdraw his team from the Fourth and Fifth Tests unless the Australian Board retracted the accusation of unsporting behaviour. The MCC responded angrily to the accusations of unsporting conduct, played down the Australian claims about the danger of Bodyline and threatened to call off the tour. The series had become a major diplomatic incident by this stage, and many people saw Bodyline as damaging to an international relationship that needed to remain strong. The public in both England and Australia reacted with outrage towards the other nation. Alexander Hore-Ruthven, the Governor of South Australia, who was in England at the time, expressed his concern to J. H. Thomas, the British Secretary of State for Dominion Affairs that this would cause a significant impact on trade between the nations. The standoff was settled only when Australian Prime Minister Joseph Lyons met members of the Australian Board and outlined to them the severe economic hardships that could be caused in Australia if the British public boycotted Australian trade. Given this understanding, the Board withdrew the allegation of unsportsmanlike behaviour two days before the fourth Test, thus saving the tour. However, correspondence continued for almost a year. Fingleton was dropped after scoring a pair in the third Test, and England won the final two matches to win the series 4–1.\n\n"}
{"id": "43577417", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43577417", "title": "Albania at the 2014 European Athletics Championships", "text": "Albania at the 2014 European Athletics Championships\n\nAlbania competed at the 2014 European Athletics Championships in Zürich, Switzerland, between 12 and 17 August 2014. A delegation of two athletes were sent to represent the country.\n"}
{"id": "3638042", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3638042", "title": "Benin at the 1980 Summer Olympics", "text": "Benin at the 1980 Summer Olympics\n\nBenin competed at the 1980 Summer Olympics in Moscow, USSR. The nation returned to the Olympic Games after missing the 1976 Summer Olympics. Previously, the nation competed as Dahomey.\n\n"}
{"id": "16147257", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16147257", "title": "Bundesliga scandal (1965)", "text": "Bundesliga scandal (1965)\n\nThe Bundesliga scandal of 1965 grew out of the failure of the German Football Association (\"Deutsche Fußball-Bund\", DFB) to fully embrace paid professionalism, an aversion rooted in the broader history of sport in the country. Many clubs circumvented the strict financial limits then in place in German football, and it became common practice for clubs to make payments to players or their agents in excess of the limits set by the DFB in an attempt to gain a competitive edge. In addition, some clubs paid players from competing sides to underperform in key matches.\n\nThe scandal came to light in February 1965, when the DFB's auditor found discrepancies in the accounts of the Hertha Berlin club that were quickly identified as illegal player payments. Hertha's position in the economic rough and tumble of German football was weakened by the city of Berlin's dangerous political situation as an isolated enclave in the middle of the Soviet-occupied East Germany during the Cold War. Many players did not wish to play in Berlin, and the club was forced into paying premiums beyond even what other teams were already illegally paying. Despite evidence of widespread problems, only Hertha was sanctioned, and the club was relegated from the top-flight Bundesliga to the second division Regionalliga Berlin.\n\nFor political reasons, the DFB wished to maintain Berlin's representation within the Bundesliga. In the competition that had been held for promotion to the Bundesliga, Tennis Borussia Berlin had finished at the bottom of their group behind Bayern Munich, 1. FC Saarbrücken, and Alemannia Aachen and so could not be considered for promotion before those clubs. The DFB turned to Spandauer SV, who had finished second in the Regionalliga Berlin, with an offer of promotion that the club refused. Tasmania 1900 Berlin, the third-place finisher and the previous season's champion, was approached next and accepted promotion.\n\nThis led to objections from Karlsruher SC and FC Schalke 04, who had been relegated but felt that they still had a better claim to the spot opened by the relegation of Hertha than any of the Berlin-based sides from the Regionalliga. To mollify these clubs, the Bundesliga was expanded from 16 to 18 clubs the following season and the two sides maintained their places in first division competition.\n\nAs for the overmatched Tasmania side, their single season in the top flight was the worst-ever season in Bundesliga history, setting records for futility that still stand.\n\nIn response to the underlying economic issues the DFB made only a token response, raising the previous limits on transfer fees and player salaries, but not by enough to make the Bundesliga a truly professional league in the broader European context. This laid the groundwork for a second similar scandal some six years later.\n\n"}
{"id": "3262789", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3262789", "title": "Cameroon at the 1984 Summer Olympics", "text": "Cameroon at the 1984 Summer Olympics\n\nCameroon competed at the 1984 Summer Olympics in Los Angeles, United States. 46 competitors, 42 men and 2 women, took part in 32 events in 6 sports.\n\n\nMen's 400 metres\n\nMen's Long Jump\n\nWomen's 100 metres\n\nWomen's Discus Throw \n\nWomen's Javelin Throw \n\nFive cyclists represented Cameroon in 1984.\n\n\n\nMen's Team Competition\n\n"}
{"id": "11383221", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11383221", "title": "Cebeci İnönü Stadium", "text": "Cebeci İnönü Stadium\n\nCebeci İnönü Stadium () is a multi-purpose stadium in Ankara, Turkey. It is currently used mostly for football matches and was the home stadium of Hacettepespor. The stadium holds 15,000 people and was built in 1967. It was named after the Turkish statesman İsmet İnönü.\n\n"}
{"id": "46241286", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46241286", "title": "Champasak United F.C.", "text": "Champasak United F.C.\n\nChampasak United Football Club (Laos ສະໂມສອນຈຳປາສັກຢູ່ໄນເຕັດ) is a professional football club, based in Pakse, Laos, that plays in the Lao Premier League, the highest division in Laotian football. The club plays its home matches at the Champasak Stadium, which holds 12,000 people.\n\nIn July 2015, the BBC that reported the club were employing illegally trafficked players as young as 14 years old from Western Africa, having forced them to sign contracts and make them live in sub-standard accommodation without pay.\n\n"}
{"id": "6968499", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6968499", "title": "Cinco de Septiembre Stadium", "text": "Cinco de Septiembre Stadium\n\nEstadio 5 de Septiembre () is a multi-use stadium in Cienfuegos, Cuba. It is used mostly for baseball games and is the home stadium of Cienfuegos Camaroneros. The stadium holds 15,600 people. It opened on 9 January 1977.\n"}
{"id": "50758375", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50758375", "title": "Club Deportivo Barbosa", "text": "Club Deportivo Barbosa\n\nClub Deportivo Barbosa is an association football team that plays in Rio Grande. They currently play in the Puerto Rico Soccer League.\n\nThis team is from Rio Grande, Puerto Rico.\n\nApril 10, 2016\n\n\"General Manager\":\n\n\"Vice President\" :\n\n\"Club treasure\" :\n"}
{"id": "4218151", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4218151", "title": "County Ground (Swindon)", "text": "County Ground (Swindon)\n\nThe County Ground (currently known as The Energy Check County Ground for sponsorship purposes) is a stadium located near the town centre of Swindon, England, and has been home to Swindon Town Football Club since 1896. The current capacity of 15,728, all-seated, has been at that level since the mid-1990s. A record attendance of 32,000 was set on 15 January 1972, against Arsenal in the 3rd round of the FA Cup. North of the football stadium is Swindon Cricket Club, with their pitch is also named \"The County Ground\" which was used for the football club from 1893 till 1896.\n\nThomas Arkell of Arkell's Brewery donated £300 to finance the construction of a stand on what was then known as the 'Wiltshire County Ground', this investment was enough to begin development of a purpose built football ground. Since its original construction, the ground has been periodically updated with new features or fittings. A covered stand on the Shrivenham Road side was erected in 1932, it was replaced in 1960 with one obtained second hand from Aldershot Military Tattoo. At a cost of £4,300 a roof was erected over the Town End, this was raised by the Supporters Club, and was opened on 27 August 1938 by local MP, W.W. Wakefield.\n\nThe War Department took over the ground in 1940, where for a while POWs were housed in huts placed on the pitch. For this the club received compensation of £4,570 in 1945.\n\nThe addition of floodlights in 1951 at a cost of £350, gave Swindon the honour of being the first League club to do so. These were first tried out v Bristol City on 2 April 1951 beating Arsenal by six months.\nThese original set of lights were supplemented by lights on both side stand roofs, which were sufficient for the County Ground to stage its first floodlit league match on 29 February 1956 v Millwall. (7 days after Fratton Park became the 1st ground to stage a floodlit league fixture). The present pylons date from 1960.\n\nAdditions included the building of the \"new\" all-seater Arkell's (or North) stand in 1971 (behind the original) and following the Hillsborough disaster; the County Ground was converted to an all-seater stadium beginning with the addition of extra seating in front of the North Stand and the building of a sponsored stand (originally the Intel Stand, then the Nationwide Stand, now the Don Rogers Stand) in the early 90s. The Nationwide Stand replaced the Shrivenham Road enclosure, a two-tiered terrace. In its last years, due to safety concerns, the upper tier was used by TV cameras and for crowd monitoring only.\nThe County Ground is also the only football stadium in the world with the most prestigious name in watch making acting as its timekeeper - Rolex, whose famous logo adorns the clock on the Stratton Bank stand.\n\nThe ground itself is on land owned by Swindon Borough Council to whom the club pay rent. Swindon have in the past considered a move to a club owned stadium to generate more revenue, but have not had the financial backing to do so. In 2006 a redevelopment campaign for the County Ground began, with the club and TrustSTFC (the supporters' trust) raising a petition to 'Save Our Home' urging the Borough Council to \"facilitate the redevelopment of the stadium and do everything they can to keep the club within the Borough\" including the proposed upgrading of the adjacent Cricket Club to County standard and Athletic Club to Olympic standard. The stadium is pro\n\nIn 2008, Swindon Town's owners released a 10-point plan after they took over the club in January. Outlining future plans for the County Ground. In this 10 point plan various upgrades to the current ground were noted. The club plans to replace all of the seats that are not red and white and replace them with red and white seas to unify the seating and make the stadium look more up to date. The club also plan to improve disabled access and improve the playing surface. The current owners of Swindon Town also hope to commence with a ground redevelopment at the County Ground site or new stadium for Swindon Town, hence the reasons for minor modifications until a new stadium becomes a reality.\n\nRelocation was first proposed around the year 2000, but since then redevelopment appears to have been the preferred option.\n\nIn September 2009 Swindon Town announced that the County Ground would be redeveloped into a 25,000-seater stadium ready for the 2012-13 season. Had Bristol become a World Cup host city, it had been hoped that international Teams will use the County Ground as a training ground in 2018 or 2022. However, England's bid to host the World Cup failed in December 2010.\n\nIn January 2011, revised plans were announced, to expand the stadium capacity to 19,000 by rebuilding the town end to a 4,000 seater stand, putting a roof over the stratton bank, putting executive boxes in the Don Rogers stand, then finally refurbishing the Arkells stand with a technology park built behind for more income. It was also suggested that in the future, if needs be, the stadium could be increased to hold 25,000. This proposition was chosen due to the increased financial viability and sustainability for the future. The land which the county ground is on will also be bought in the process.\n\nThese plans, however, were delayed due to Swindon Town's relegation to League Two at the end of the 2010-11 season.\n\nLocated on the north side of pitch. The majority of this stand was constructed in 1971, with extra seating being added near the pitch-side in late 1992. At either end of the stand are large windshields, and there are two roof-supporting beams within the stand. It contains an executive seating area, VIP lounge, the players' dressing rooms and a tunnel out onto the pitch. It is named after Thomas Arkell of Arkell's Brewery, who funded the original Arkell's stand. The west corner of this stand is allocated to away fans. 1,200 of the total 3,300 away allocation is here. This stand has undergone a facelift, with multiple-coloured seats replaced with red or white seats to give the stand a cleaner, more up-to-date look.\n\nIt also is home to the two new dugouts which were built during the facelift. The stand will be thoroughly refurbished during County Ground's future developments\n\nIt has a capacity of roughly 5,800.\n\nThis is at the east end of the pitch. It is a former terrace, now with seats bolted on, and has no roof. Although planning permission was granted to build a roof on the stand, due to the club's financial plight at the time the necessary funds were not available. The Stratton Bank stand makes up the remaining 2,200 of the away allocation, but is only really needed for big games (local derbies, big league, or cup games) or for larger clubs with big away support. The 1,200 in the Arkell's Stand is usually more than adequate. The stadium scoreboard is located at the back of this stand. A notable feature is a large Rolex clock adjacent to the scoreboard which is owned by Deacon's Jewellers, the only one in the world \nas part of a football stadium.\n\nOn 28 February 2009 for Swindon Town's 40th anniversary of winning the league cup in 1969 it announced it would be holding a competition to rename Stratton Bank to whatever the winner chose for the 2009/10 and 2010/11 seasons. The winner, the Adkins Family Stand, was announced on Sky TV's Soccer A.M. show on 2 May 2009 with the draw being done by then-Swindon Town chairman Andrew Fitton.\n\nThis stand, on the south of the pitch was built in 1994 as the \"Intel Stand\". It then was sponsored by the Nationwide Building Society until the end of the 2006/07 season, and then it was sponsored by the Kingswood Group until March 2008. It is sometimes referred to as the \"South Stand\" by supporters. It features a cantilevered roof, which means there are no roof supports obstructing the view of the game. It replaced an old two-tier stand, of which the upper tier had become unusable due to structural problems.\n\nThere is a second concourse inside the stand which can be opened and used as a second executive area to the ground. If some seats were removed, this would allow the club to use this concourse to add executive boxes to the County Ground.\n\nIt is understood this concourse has never been opened due to the lack of funds Swindon Town have had over the last 10 years.\n\nOn 14 April 2008, Chief Executive Nick Watkins told a fans' forum that the club was then considering opening up the second concourse to add executive boxes to the ground, and, in 2011, when plans for redeveloping a new County Ground coalesced, this was confirmed.\n\nFrom the start of the 2007/08 season, the stand was renamed as the Don Rogers Stand.\n\nIt currently has a capacity of around 4,800.\n\nAt the west end of the pitch, this stand is named for its being closest to the town centre. Since the mid-2000s it has become popular with the more vocal fans, and therefore has what is considered to be the best atmosphere in the stadium on a match day. One factor is the lower ticket prices for this end and Swindon Town offering the same prices on match day as in advance.\n\nThe south end of this stand is notable because the floodlight located there pierces the stand's roof and is integrated into the stand. The Town End is sponsored by Fast Plant as of October 2010. The sponsorship was first seen during Swindon Town's derby match against Bristol Rovers on 9 October 2010, which Town won 2-1.\n\nThe Town End holds approximately 2,000.\n\nThe ground has been used to host England international games, including the women's international between England and the Netherlands on 14 March 2007, and also under-17s matches. \nThe ground has also hosted other football events such as local school competitions and community soccer schools.\n\nThe ground has in the past been used as a concert venue; most notable for performances by Elton John, Lulu and Bryan Adams. In 2006 the County Ground was in the running to be one of the venues for Bon Jovi's 'Have A Nice Day Tour'; however, the County Ground was rejected as it was said to be too small. The County Ground is located close to the Magic Roundabout.\n"}
{"id": "1642792", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1642792", "title": "Doubled pawns", "text": "Doubled pawns\n\nIn chess, doubled pawns are two pawns of the same color residing on the same file. Pawns can become doubled only when one pawn captures onto a file on which another friendly pawn resides. In the diagram, the pawns on the b-file and e-file are doubled. The pawns on the are doubled and isolated.\n\nIn most cases, doubled pawns are considered a weakness due to their inability to defend each other. This inability, in turn, makes it more difficult to achieve a breakthrough which could create a passed pawn (often a deciding factor in endgames). In the case of isolated doubled pawns, these problems are only further aggravated. Several chess strategies and openings are based on burdening the opponent with doubled pawns, a strategic weakness.\n\nThere are, however, cases where accepting doubled pawns can be advantageous because doing so may open up a file for a rook, or because the doubled pawns perform a useful function, such as defending important squares. Also, if the opponent is unable to effectively attack the pawns, their inherent weakness may be of little or no consequence. There are also a number of openings that accept doubled pawns in exchange for some prevailing advantage, such as the Two Knights Variation of Alekhine's Defence.\n\nIt is possible to have tripled pawns (or more). The diagram shows a position from the Lubomir Kavalek versus Bobby Fischer game in the 1967 Sousse interzonal. The pawns remained tripled at the end of the game on move 28 (a draw).\n\nQuadrupled pawns occurred in the game Alexander Alekhine versus Vladimir Nenarokov in 1907, in John van der Wiel versus Vlastimil Hort in 1981, and in other games. The longest lasting case of quadrupled pawns was in the game Kovacs versus Barth in 1994, lasting 23 moves. The final position was drawn, demonstrating the weakness of the extra pawns (see diagram).\n\nThere are different types of doubled pawns (see diagram). A doubled pawn is weak because of four considerations:\nThe doubled pawns on the b-file are in the best situation, the f-file pawns are next. The h-file pawns are in the worst situation because two pawns are held back by one opposing pawn, so the second pawn has little value . See Chess piece relative value for more discussion.\n\n\nBibliography\n"}
{"id": "14490810", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14490810", "title": "Equestrian drill team", "text": "Equestrian drill team\n\nAn equestrian drill team is a group of horses and riders performing choreographed maneuvers to music. Teams typically perform at rodeos, horse fairs, parades, benefits, and drill team competitions. Drill teams are intended to entertain, show sportsmanship, horsemanship, teamwork and dedication. Competition drill at the national level is a controlled ride and has continuous forward motion. Some competition venues have set up special divisions of competition to provide for novice, rodeo, youth, gaited and special effects (as allowed at the venue) such as theme and drama. Theme drill provides a division that allows teams to showcase their uniforms, horse ability, music, and inclusions of trick riding or other variations.\n\nMembers must have a uniform appearance, including outfits, hats, tack, and flags (if used). Horses should be of the same type, e.g. stock type, gaited, or miniature, however matching horse colors or breeds are at the team’s discretion. Teams can range in size from four horses (Quad team) to 20 plus horses.\n\nAt competitions, a drill team is judged on ability, including spacing and alignment, timing and coordination, originality, difficulty, and attractiveness of patterns, speed, horsemanship, uniformity, manners of the animals, music, and crowd appeal. Categories can include Novice, Youth, 4-H, Gaited, Theme, Rodeo, Quad, or Open.\n\nThe United States Equestrian Drill Association (USEDA) is the governing body for mounted drill and color guard competitions in the United States. The USEDA sanctions competitions throughout the United States. The United States Equestrian Drill Championship (USEDC) is held each June at the Texas Rose Horse Park near Lindale, Texas as part of Super Ride - an International Festival of the Equestrian Arts.\n\n"}
{"id": "2268269", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2268269", "title": "Equestrian vaulting", "text": "Equestrian vaulting\n\nEquestrian vaulting, or simply vaulting, is most often described as gymnastics and dance on horseback, which can be practiced both competitively or non-competitively. Vaulting has a history as an equestrian act at circuses, but its origins stretch back at least two-thousand years. It is open to both men and women and is one of ten equestrian disciplines recognized by the International Federation for Equestrian Sports (Fédération Équestre Internationale or FEI). Therapeutic or interactive vaulting is also used as an activity for children and adults who may have balance, attention, gross motor skill or social deficits.\n\nVaulting's enthusiasts are concentrated in Europe and other parts of the Western world. It is well established in Germany and Switzerland and is growing in other western countries. Vaulting was first introduced in the United States in the 1950s and 60s but was limited only to California and other areas of the west coast. More recently, it is beginning to gain popularity in the United States northeast.\n\nIt is believed by some that the origins of vaulting could be traced to the ancient Roman games, where acrobats usually displayed their skills on cantering horses. Others, however, believe that vaulting originated in ancient Crete, where bull-leaping was prevalent. In either case, people have been performing acrobatic and dance-like movements on (or over) the backs of moving horses/animals for more than 2,000 years.\n\nRenaissance and Middle Ages history include numerous references to vaulting or similar activities. The present name of the sport/art comes from the French \"la voltige,\" which it acquired during the Renaissance, when it was a form of riding drill and agility exercise for cavalry riders.\n\nModern vaulting developed in post-war Germany as an initiative to introduce children to equestrian sports.\n\nIn 1983, vaulting became one of the disciplines recognized by the FEI. European championships were first held in Ebreichsdorf, Austria in 1984, and the first FEI World Vaulting Championship was held in Bulle, Switzerland in 1986. Vaulting was included in the World Equestrian Games in Stockholm in 1990 and in all subsequent editions of the games. It was demonstrated as an art during the 1984 and 1996 Olympic Games events. It has been included in the Inter-Africa Cup since 2006.\n\nThe first World Cup Vaulting competition was held in Leipzig on 29–30 April 2011.\n\nIn competitive vaulting, vaulters compete as individuals, pairs (pas-de-deux) and teams. Beginning vaulters compete in walk or trot while experienced vaulters compete in canter. The vaulting horse moves in a minimum 15-metre diameter circle and is directed by a lunger (or \"longeur\") who stands in the center. In competitive vaulting, the rider and horse will both be judged on a scale from 1 to 10.\n\nVaulting competitions consist of compulsory exercises and choreographed freestyle exercises done to music. There are seven compulsory exercises: mount, basic seat, flag, mill, scissors, stand and flank. Each exercise is scored on a scale from 0 to 10. Horses also receive a score and are judged on the quality of their movement as well as their behavior.\n\nVaulters compete in team, pas-de-deux and individual categories. An individual freestyle (also known as Kür) is a 1-minute program, the pas-de-deux kür is 2 minutes while the team is 4 minutes. They are all choreographed to music. The components of a freestyle vaulting routine \"may\" include mounts and dismounts, handstands, kneeling and standing and aerial moves such jumps, leaps and tumbling skills. However, many of these skills are only seen in the highest levels. A typical routine for a child or beginner will more likely contain variations on simple kneels and planks. Teams also carry, lift, or even toss another vaulter in the air. Judging is based on technique, performance, form, difficulty, balance, security, and consideration of the horse; the horse is also scored, taking up 25% of the total score.\n\nVaulting horses are not saddled but wear a surcingle (or a roller) and a thick back pad. The surcingle has special handles which aid the vaulter in performing certain moves as well as leather loops called \"cossack stirrups\". The horse wears a bridle and side reins. The lunge line is usually attached to the inside bit ring.\n\nVaulting horses typically move on the left rein (counterclockwise), but in some competitions the horse canters in the other direction. Two-phase classes of competition also work the horse to the right. While many European clubs do not compete to the right, they still work at home evenly both directions, believing this benefits the horse and the vaulter.\n\nThe premier vaulting competitions are the biannual World and Continental Championships and the World Equestrian Games (WEG) held every four years. In many countries, vaulting associations organize and sponsor national, regional and local events every year. In 2011 there were at least 24 countries with such organisations.\n\nVaulters perform movements on the back of the horse. Novice and beginning vaulters may perform at the walk or the trot while higher level vaulters perform at the canter. There are compulsory exercises and depending on class the vaulter performs seven or eight of them:\n\nThe compulsories are performed in succession in the above order, without pause or dismounts.\n\nThe International Federation for Equestrian Sports (FEI) regulates dress codes for competitive vaulting. Every 2–3 years, new guidelines are released, which consistently declare that vaulters must wear form-fitting uniforms that do not conceal the line and form of the vaulter's body, as well as not hinder the movement of the vaulter or the safe interaction between the vaulters. For that reason, accessories such as belts, capes or hats are prohibited. Additionally, men’s trousers must be secured at the ankle. It is expected that clothing be appropriate for the competition and does not give the effect of nudity. The most common form-fitting uniforms worn by vaulters are unitards.\n\nIn addition to competition, vaulting is a form of artistry, recreation and entertainment. Vaulters range in age from 7 to 30 years and older, practicing individual and team skills and routines. The youngest athletes begin at the walk gait and progress to trot, and canter, based on strength, height, and ability to mount and performing on the horse.\n\nVaulting is used on a therapeutic level in some instances. People with disabilities can often benefit from interacting with the horse and team members, and by doing simple movements with the help of \"spotters.\"\n\nVaulting is often seen on a recreational level, through vaulting \"demonstrations,\" and occasionally in local parades.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "19979357", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19979357", "title": "Estadio Anna Mercedes Campos", "text": "Estadio Anna Mercedes Campos\n\nEstadio Anna Mercedes Campos is a multi-use stadium in Sonsonate, El Salvador. It is currently used mostly for football matches and is the home stadium of Sonsonate. The stadium holds 8,000 spectators.\n\nIt is named after Anna Mercedes Campos “La Morocha”, a javelin gold medallist in the 1954 Central American and Caribbean Games held in Mexico.\n\n"}
{"id": "2706210", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2706210", "title": "FA Cup Final", "text": "FA Cup Final\n\nThe FA Cup Final, commonly referred to in England as just the Cup Final, is the last match in the Football Association Challenge Cup. It is one of the most attended domestic football events in the world, with an official attendance of 89,472 at the 2017 final. The match is the culmination of a knockout competition among clubs belonging to The Football Association in England, although Scottish and Irish teams competed in the early years and Welsh teams regularly compete, with Cardiff City winning the Cup in 1927 and reaching the final in 1925 and 2008.\n\n, 137 FA Cup Finals have been played. The latest final was held on 19 May 2018 at Wembley Stadium and was contested between Manchester United and Chelsea, with Chelsea winning 1–0.\n\nThe first FA Cup Final was held at Kennington Oval on 16 March 1872 and was contested between Wanderers and Royal Engineers, with Wanderers winning 1–0.\n\nAfter the 1873 final was held at Lillie Bridge, the event was held at the Oval until 1892. The 1893 and 1894 finals were respectively held at Fallowfield Stadium in Manchester and Goodison Park in Liverpool, before the event returned to London in 1895, being held at Crystal Palace until the outbreak of World War I. After the war, the event was held at Stamford Bridge, before Wembley Stadium opened in 1923. The first final at Wembley, in which Bolton Wanderers beat West Ham United 2–0, had an official attendance of 126,047, although the actual figure is believed to be as much as 300,000.\n\nWembley continued to host the final until 2000, when it closed for redevelopment. The Millennium Stadium in Cardiff hosted the final between 2001 and 2006, before the new Wembley Stadium opened in 2007.\n\nUp to and including 1998, if the final ended in a draw, a replay would be required. This occurred on 14 occasions, the last being in 1993 between Arsenal and Sheffield Wednesday. In September 1998, the Football Association decided that all future finals would be decided 'on the day', meaning that a penalty shootout would decide the winner if the score was level after normal and extra time. Two finals since have been decided by a penalty shootout, those of 2005 (Arsenal defeating Manchester United) and 2006 (Liverpool defeating West Ham United).\n\nStan Mortensen's hat-trick for Blackpool in 1953 remains the only hat trick ever scored at Wembley in the competition's final. Everton's Louis Saha scored a goal after 27.9 seconds in the 2009 FA Cup Final. It is currently the fastest goal in FA Cup Final history. Bury's 6–0 victory over Derby County in the 1903 FA Cup Final is the largest winning margin. With his goal in the 2012 Final, Chelsea's Didier Drogba became the first man to score a goal in four different Finals.\n\nThe FA Cup Final is one of ten events reserved for live broadcast on UK terrestrial television under the Ofcom Code on Sports and Other Listed and Designated Events.\n\n\"For a full list of FA Cup winners and runners-up, see List of FA Cup Finals.\"\n\n\n"}
{"id": "36690907", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36690907", "title": "Footballer (Nolan)", "text": "Footballer (Nolan)\n\nFootballer is a 1946 painting by Australian artist Sidney Nolan. It depicts an Australian rules footballer standing before a crowd of spectators at a football match. For many years the painting was thought to be a generic image of a footballer, however Nolan later revealed that the painting is based on Bill Mohr, a star player for the St Kilda Football Club during the 1930s.\n\nIn 2002, the painting was acquired by the National Gallery of Victoria, and has become one of the gallery's most popular works. According to journalist Geoff McClure, \"Footballer\" \"has special significance because, together with Drysdale's \"The Cricketers\", it represents virtually the entire sports-related work ever done by our masters.\"\n\nBorn in the inner-Melbourne working class suburb of Carlton on 22 April 1917, Nolan grew up in bayside St Kilda, Melbourne's main leisure precinct. His childhood was spent playing in and around Luna Park, St Kilda Pier and along nearby beaches, jetties and sea baths; memories of this period played an inspirational role in the imagery of Nolan's early paintings, including the \"Bathers\" series which he started in 1942. Nolan also had many sporting interests growing up, in particular swimming, cycling, cricket and Australian rules football. He regularly went on weekend trips to the outer at the St Kilda Cricket Ground to barrack for his team, the St Kilda Football Club.\n\nIn the mid-1940s, when Nolan was painting boyhood recollections of St Kilda and \"heroic\" figures such as bushranger Ned Kelly, he decided to paint \"Footballer\", an \"emblematic portrait of the sports-warrior\". The work was painted in the dining room at Heide, the Templestowe home of art patrons John and Sunday Reed, on 24 August 1946. In his journal, Nolan writes: \"Finished my painting of a footballer this morning and called Jim [the gardener at Heide] to have a look at it. He said it looked quite real, almost as if you were there, so it at least passed the critical eye of a specialist.\" Its completion date falls in the middle of Nolan's iconic first series of 27 Ned Kelly works, all but one painted in the Heide dining room. Together with the Kelly series, \"Footballer\" has been interpreted as a \"veiled self-portrait\"—both men, like the artist, stand outside society in a \"space no longer governed by everyday rules.\"\n\nThe painting was first exhibited at the Melbourne branch of the Contemporary Art Society in 1946, and later shown in retrospective exhibitions throughout the 1960s and 70s with the title \"Fullback, St Kilda\", which led to speculation that the footballer is based on Test cricketer and St Kilda fullback Keith \"Nugget\" Miller, of whom Nolan was a great fan. Nolan later revealed in an interview that St Kilda's Bill Mohr is the subject, saying \"I lived in St Kilda and I went to a lot of matches there and they had a fullback called Billy Mohr and in 1946, after coming out of the army and casting back for memories to paint, I decided to paint him.\"\n\nThe footballer's red, white, yellow and black colours reference those adopted by the Saints during World War I. His black shorts \"share a singularity and intensity akin to Ned Kelly's helmet\", while the broad-striped guernsey—bold against the amorphous backdrop of spectators' faces and vertical lines of the goalpost and boundary fence—prefigures the horizontal bars of escaped convict David Bracefell in Nolan's Eliza Fraser series.\n\nThe painting, valued in 2002 at approximately $500,000, was on the National Gallery of Victoria's wish list for many years. The gallery acquired the painting in 2002 from a private collector based in England, with costs met jointly by the State Government of Victoria and Foster's Group. It was officially gifted to the gallery by Premier Steve Bracks on Channel Nine's \"The Footy Show\", becoming the first painting to go on display at the newly built Ian Potter Centre, home of the National Gallery of Victoria's Australian art collection.\n\n\"Footballer\" is used as the cover image for Volume II of David Williamson's 1986 publication \"Collected Plays\", which contains his 1977 football play \"The Club\".\n\nIn 2011, the National Gallery of Victoria celebrated its 150th anniversary with a range of festivities including life-size renditions of the gallery's most loved works populated along St Kilda Road to the Ian Potter Centre. At Federation Square, high-flying circus performers played kick-to-kick as a tribute to \"Footballer\", where a shearing display was also held in commemoration of Tom Roberts' 1890 painting \"Shearing the Rams\".\n\nAustralia Post issued a stamp in 2017 featuring Nolan's \"Footballer\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "17410303", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17410303", "title": "Galatasaray (magazine)", "text": "Galatasaray (magazine)\n\nGalatasaray () is a monthly released official magazine to the fans of Turkish sports club Galatasaray SK. \nThe magazine released first on June 1, 2002. This is the first official Sports Club Magazine in Turkey.\n\n\"Galatasaray\" is currently the best selling sports club magazine in Turkey (100,000 copies monthly)\n\n"}
{"id": "11667668", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11667668", "title": "Greater Vancouver Open", "text": "Greater Vancouver Open\n\nThe Greater Vancouver Open was a professional golf tournament in Canada on the PGA Tour, held in southwestern British Columbia from 1996 to 2002. It was played after the majors in late summer, at the Northview Golf & Country Club in Surrey, a suburb southeast of Vancouver. \n\nFor its first three years, it was an alternate event in late August, concurrent with the NEC World Series of Golf at Firestone in Akron, Ohio. In 1999, the new Reno-Tahoe Open became the alternate event for the WGC-NEC Invitational at Firestone. The Vancouver tournament was promoted to a regular tour event and scheduled a week later, as the Greater Milwaukee Open moved up to July. Renamed the \"Air Canada Championship,\" sponsored by the country's leading airline, it was coupled with the Canadian Open for consecutive tournaments north of the U.S. border in early September.\n\nMike Weir won that year for the first of his eight tour wins; he became the first Canadian to win a PGA Tour event on home soil in Three weeks earlier, he co-led the PGA Championship after three rounds, but finished in a tie for tenth. Weir later won a major at the Masters in 2003.\n\nThe purses grew substantially during the run of the event, from $1 million to $3.5 million in six years. It was replaced on the schedule in 2003 by the Deutsche Bank Championship in Massachusetts, near Boston.\n\nThis was not the first time the PGA Tour included a stop in British Columbia on their schedule. Dow Finsterwald won the unofficial 1955 British Columbia Open Invitational, and Jim Ferree was victorious at the 1958 Vancouver Open Invitational.\n\n"}
{"id": "50800404", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50800404", "title": "Hungary at the 1992 Summer Paralympics", "text": "Hungary at the 1992 Summer Paralympics\n\nHungary competed at the 1992 Summer Paralympics in Barcelona, Spain. 43 competitors from Hungary won 11 medals, including 4 gold, 3 silver and 4 bronze and finished 25th in the medal table.\n\n"}
{"id": "8038197", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8038197", "title": "Isidoro García Stadium", "text": "Isidoro García Stadium\n\nEstadio Isidoro García is a baseball stadium in Mayagüez, named after Isidoro \"El Cholo\" García, a local pitcher who threw the first ever no-hitter at a final series game in the Puerto Rico Baseball League. The stadium is located south of the city, at road PR-63, also named the \"Avenida Colby William Dunscombe\" (named after a former medical director of the local Adventist Bella Vista Hospital). The site lies north of the Mayaguez Athletics Stadium (finished in December 2009) and across the street from the Parque del Litoral.\n\nThe original \"Cholo García\" stadium was a multi-purpose stadium in Mayagüez, Puerto Rico, originally built in 1938. The stadium was demolished after the 2006-2007 Puerto Rico Professional Baseball League tournament, and was rebuilt as one of the main facilities where the 2010 Central American and Caribbean Games, held in the city in the late summer of 2010, were staged. The Indios de Mayagüez are now using the new stadium as their ballpark.\n\nThe original stadium was named after García, the first Puerto Rican baseball pitcher to ever throw a no-hit no-run game in a final series game in the PRBL. The new facility retains the name. A statue of García resides in front of the stadium's main entrance.\n\nThe new Isidoro García Baseball Stadium is a 10,500-seat capacity stadium in Mayagüez, Puerto Rico. It hosts the home games of Indios de Mayagüez of the Puerto Rico Baseball League. It hosted the Baseball at the 2010 Central American and Caribbean Games. It replaces the former Isidoro García Baseball Stadium, which closed in 2007, but it is located in the same grounds as the original. The 2011 Caribbean Series was held at the stadium It will house the regional offices of the Sports and Recreation Department of Mayagüez. Then-governor of Puerto Rico Luis Fortuño announced completion of the stadium on February 8, 2010, at a press conference held on the stadium's infield. The stadium was built following Major League Baseball standards.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "28737493", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28737493", "title": "L'anneau de vitesse", "text": "L'anneau de vitesse\n\nL'anneau de vitesse () was a speed skating venue located in Albertville, France. As of the 2018 Winter Olympics, it is the last outdoor venue to hold speed skating as all following Olympic events have been held indoors. For the 1992 Winter Olympics, they hosted the speed skating events.\n\nThe stands, which remain present, were constructed as an airfoil from aerospace designs. The ice was made using of piping using R32 and brine refrigeration to cool the track to between with ice. Before this the surface was covered with of base sand in order to lay down the piping.\n\nThe track is now a multipurpose stadium used for athletics and football events.\n\n"}
{"id": "25431019", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25431019", "title": "List of southpaw stance boxers", "text": "List of southpaw stance boxers\n\nThis is a list of southpaw stance boxers. Southpaw is a boxing term that designates the stance where the boxer has his right hand and right foot forward, leading with right jabs, and following with a left cross right hook. Southpaw is the normal stance for a left-handed boxer. The corresponding designation for a right-handed boxer is orthodox, and is generally a mirror-image of the southpaw stance.\n"}
{"id": "25009528", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25009528", "title": "Lithuania national rugby sevens team", "text": "Lithuania national rugby sevens team\n\nThe Lithuania national rugby sevens team is a minor national sevens side. They won the Bowl in the 2005 FIRA European Sevens in Moscow.\n"}
{"id": "58832239", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58832239", "title": "MSG Sphere London", "text": "MSG Sphere London\n\nThe MSG Sphere London is a proposed music and entertainment venue to be built in Stratford area of London, England, United Kingdom. \n\nThe MSG Sphere London was proposed by The Madison Square Garden Company and will be identical to the MSG Sphere Las Vegas. Both will be designed by the architects Populous. The venue will be located in Stratford near the Queen Elizabeth Olympic Park and Westfield Stratford City. Once complete, the sphere-shaped venue will have LED screens inside and outside of the venue and will have a seating capacity of 18,000. \n\nThe MSG Sphere will be built on a site that was used as a coach park during the 2012 Summer Olympics. The Madison Square Garden Company claims that with a population close to 8.8 million, the London metropolitan area only has two large capacity venues for concerts. The MSG Sphere intends to help meet the demands of the London market.\n\nAccording to the official website for the MSG Sphere, public comments will be reviewed by the end of 2018. \n\nThe MSG Sphere will be equipped with 19,000 by 13,500 resolution LED screens which will spread across the interior of the venue. All 18,000 seats will have high speed internet access. The sound system will deliver sound through the floorboards. The exterior of the venue will feature a 360 degree IMAX display which will allow those who are outside of the venue to see what is going on inside. \n\nThe MSG Sphere will be accessible through a variety of mass transit links, including rail and bus.\n\nThe MSG Sphere London will be accessible via the London Underground's Central line and Jubilee line at the Stratford station. Spectators will also be able to access the MSG Sphere via Docklands Light Railway at Stratford station and Stratford International station. The North London line of the London Overground also stops at Stratford station. National Rail and Crossrail customers will be able to access the venue via Statford station.\n\nSpectators will be able to access the venue via bus through the Stratford City bus station and the Stratford bus station.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "48753812", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48753812", "title": "Madagascar at the 2017 World Games", "text": "Madagascar at the 2017 World Games\n\nMadagascar competed at the World Games 2017 in Wroclaw, Poland, from 20 July 2017 to 30 July 2017. \n\nMadagascar has qualified at the 2017 World Games:\n\n"}
{"id": "45565794", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45565794", "title": "Malawi national korfball team", "text": "Malawi national korfball team\n\nThe Malawi national korfball team is managed by the Malawi Korfball Association (MKA), representing Malawi in korfball international competitions.\n"}
{"id": "6169555", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6169555", "title": "Melbourne Sports and Entertainment Centre", "text": "Melbourne Sports and Entertainment Centre\n\nThe Holden Centre (originally known as the Swimming and Diving Stadium and formerly known as the Olympic Swimming Stadium, Melbourne Sports and Entertainment Centre, Holden Centre, and unofficially The Glass House) is a sports administration and training facility located in the Melbourne Sports and Entertainment Precinct in Melbourne, Australia. The facility opened in 1956 as an aquatic centre for the 1956 Olympic Games. In 1983, the Olympic-sized pool was replaced with a parquetry floor and the facility became Melbourne's home to numerous basketball events until 1998, most notably as the home venue for several National Basketball League teams including the North Melbourne Giants and Melbourne Tigers. The venue served as Melbourne's primary indoor concert arena from 1984 to 1988, until the completion of the Rod Laver Arena.\n\nKnown originally as the Swimming and Diving Stadium, it was built as an indoor aquatic centre for diving, swimming, water polo, and the swimming part of the modern pentathlon events for the 1956 Summer Olympics. It was the first fully indoor Olympic swimming venue in an Olympic Games and is the only major stadium structure from the 1956 Olympic Games with the facade intact. It is listed on the Victorian Heritage Register. The design of this building was the winner of one of three international competitions held in 1952 to provide stadia for the 1956 Olympic Games. Architects Kevin Borland, Peter McIntyre, John and Phyllis Murphy and their engineer Bill Irwin won the only one of these competitions to be consummated. Construction by McDougall & Ireland, one of Melbourne's then-largest construction companies, began in October 1954 and was completed in 1956, just prior to the commencement of the Melbourne Olympic Games.\n\nAfter redevelopment in the 1980s, the venue became the Melbourne Sports and Entertainment Centre. It hosted home games for the National Basketball League's North Melbourne Giants, as well as the Melbourne Tigers, Eastside Spectres and Westside Melbourne Saints, as well as hosting international games between the Australian Boomers and various visiting international teams including the Soviet Union who played there in 1987. The Giants would remain at The Glass House until their final season in 1998. The Tigers would move to the 15,400 capacity (for basketball) National Tennis Centre at Flinders Park in 1992, while the Spectres and Saints merged in 1991 to become the South East Melbourne Magic. The Magic would also move to Melbourne Park in 1992 leaving the Giants as the only NBL tenants at the venue.\n\nFrom 1984 until 1986, The Glass house with its 7,200 capacity was the largest venue used in the NBL. Its position was taken when the Brisbane Bullets moved into the 13,500 seat Brisbane Entertainment Centre in mid-1986. By the time of the venue's last NBL game on Friday 5 June 1998 which saw the Giants defeat the Perth Wildcats 109–103, The Glass House was still the 4th largest venue in use, though having opened in 1956 it was also the oldest.\n\nThe North Melbourne Giants won the NBL Championship at The Glass House in 1989 when they defeated the Canberra Cannons 2-0 in the Grand Final series, reversing the result of the 1988 NBL Grand Final when they had lost to the Cannons. They won their second and last title in 1994 when they defeated the Adelaide 36ers, again 2-0 in the best of three series.\n\nThe Glass House also hosted the NBL All-Star Game in 1988, 1989 and 1991.\n\nThe Glass House, which after its redevelopment into a Sports and Entertainment Centre had a capacity of 7,200 people, was also used as Melbourne's main indoor concert venue until the opening of the 16,000 capacity National Tennis Centre in 1988.\n\nThe luxury vehicle manufacturer Lexus bought the naming rights to the venue in 2004; as the Lexus Centre, it no longer served as a public stadium, instead being used by the Victorian Institute of Sport and the Collingwood Football Club as a sports administration and training facility. The Lexus Centre was listed as part of the Melbourne Sports and Entertainment Precinct. On 21 November 2009, Collingwood Football Club announced publicly on the official AFL website that Lexus would no longer continue to maintain the rights of naming the centre. Lexus announced in a statement that \"the branding exercise had achieved its marketing objectives and was no longer a priority in its marketing strategy\", hence ending a six-year naming rights deal between Lexus and Collingwood. In March, 2010, Collingwood announced that Westpac bank was the new naming rights sponsor of the centre.\n\nOn 19 August 2015, Holden signed a multimillion-dollar three-year deal to become a Premier Partner of Collingwood and holder of the naming rights to the club’s headquarters at Olympic Park, now known as the 'Holden Centre'.\n\n"}
{"id": "11081527", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11081527", "title": "Michel Vaarten", "text": "Michel Vaarten\n\nMichel Vaarten (born 17 January 1957) is a retired track cyclist and road bicycle racer from Belgium. He represented Belgium at the 1976 Summer Olympics in Montreal, Quebec, Canada, where he won silver medal in the 1.000m time trial behind East Germany's Klaus-Jürgen Grünke. Vaarten was a professional from 1979 to 1992. He won 12 national titles, one European title and one world title, mainly in track cycling. Vaarten is currently piloting a Derny bike in many Six Day Cycling events around Europe.\n\nAfter his competitive career, he served as a pacemaker.\n\n"}
{"id": "2033830", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2033830", "title": "New Providence Football League", "text": "New Providence Football League\n\nThe New Providence Football League was the highest form of football on the island of New Providence.\n\nBefore 2008, the champion of the New Providence Football League would compete with the champion of the Grand Bahama Football League to determine the national title. In 2008, the two leagues merged to form the BFA Senior League.\n\n\n\nRSSSF archives\n"}
{"id": "43755878", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43755878", "title": "Pilipinas Sepak Takraw Association", "text": "Pilipinas Sepak Takraw Association\n\nThe Philippine Amateur Sepak Takraw Association is the national governing body for Sepak Takraw in the Philippines. It is accredited by the International Sepaktakraw Federation which is the governing body for the sport of Sepak Takraw in the world.\n\n"}
{"id": "43834509", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43834509", "title": "Portuguese Women's Handball Cup", "text": "Portuguese Women's Handball Cup\n\nThe Portuguese Women's Handball Cup (Portuguese: Taça de Portugal de Andebol Feminino) is a Portuguese handball competition, played in the Swiss system and eligible for all women's professional or amateur teams.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "35151621", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35151621", "title": "Punjab Warriors (Pakistani rugby team)", "text": "Punjab Warriors (Pakistani rugby team)\n\nThe Punjab Warriors are a Pakistani rugby team. They play in the Pakistan Super XV League and serve as a Punjab select side under the jurisdiction of the Punjab Rugby Association. Presumably this team does not include players from Lahore RFC, as that club functions independently.\n\nPakistan Warriors was founded in 2011 Adbul Rahim Khan. They squared off against powerhouses Lahore RFC in the Pakistan Super XV League played as part of the Azadi Cup, losing 5-20. In January 2012 they faced the Indian side Delhi Shers (formerly known as the Delhi Lions) who were on tour in Pakistan.\n\n"}
{"id": "1504512", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1504512", "title": "Red hands", "text": "Red hands\n\nRed hands, also known as hot hands, slapsies, slap jack, red tomato (Northern Britain), slaps, or simply the hand slap game, is a children's game which can be played by two players.\n\nOne player extends their hands forward, roughly at arm's length, with the palms down. The other player's hands, also roughly at arm's length, are placed, palms up, under the first player's hands. The object of the game is for the second player to slap the back of the first player's hands before the first player can pull them away. If the slapping player misses, the players swap roles and play again.\n\nThe slapper is on offense and must act with sufficient speed, because the slappee's goal is to pull their hands away, and out of the area where the hands overlap, to avoid the slap. The slapper can only slap the hand it is underneath.\n\nThe slappee is on defense and attempts to avoid having his hands slapped, by pulling his hands away as the slapper brings his hands over to attempt a slap. However, the slappee cannot flinch too much in attempting to avoid a slap: in one variation of the game, if the slappee pulls his hands away when the slapper has not brought his hands around, then the slappee must submit to a \"free slap\" by the slapper.\n\nChris Johnny Johnny is the current reigning international champion of Red Hands.\n\nAnother variation is where the slappee has their hands held palms together, held out at mid-torso height; the slapper then does the same with the tips of the fingers of both players hands around a centimetre apart, and then (with just one of their hands) the slapper tries to slap the backs of the slappee's hands. You can slap the slappee's hands with just one of your hands as a strategical move.\n\n"}
{"id": "1193376", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1193376", "title": "Rickwood Field", "text": "Rickwood Field\n\nRickwood Field, located in Birmingham, Alabama, is the oldest professional baseball park in the United States. It was built for the Birmingham Barons in 1910 by industrialist and team-owner Rick Woodward and has served as the home park for the Birmingham Barons and the Birmingham Black Barons of the Negro Leagues. Though the Barons moved their home games to the Hoover Met in the suburbs, and most recently to Regions Field in Birmingham, Rickwood Field has been preserved and is undergoing gradual restoration as a \"working museum\" where baseball's history can be experienced. The Barons also play one regular season game a year at Rickwood Field. Rickwood Field is listed on the National Register of Historic Places.\n\nThe Birmingham Coal Barons baseball team began playing professionally in 1887, with their home games at an informal park called \"Slag Pile Field\" in West End. In 1901 they joined the Southern Association.\n\nAllen Harvey \"Rick\" Woodward, chairman of Woodward Iron Company and grandson of pioneer Birmingham industrialist Stimpson Harvey Woodward, purchased a majority share of the Birmingham Coal Barons baseball team from J. William McQueen in 1909 while he was still in his 20s. Immediately he began planning a grand showplace for his new team. He contacted Connie Mack for advice on the details, including the field dimensions. He settled on Shibe Park in Philadelphia (which was controlled by Mack's team and later renamed Connie Mack Stadium) and Forbes Field in Pittsburgh as the models for the new park. He purchased land in the West End neighborhood of Birmingham from the Alabama Central Railroad. The $75,000 structure was designed by Southeastern Engineering Company of Birmingham (a short-lived subsidiary of Pittsburgh's General Fireproofing Company) and completed during the summer of 1910. The 12.7 acre (51,000 m²) park was flanked along the basepaths by concrete and steel stands. A tile-roofed cupola on the roof behind home plate provided space for the announcer and the press. Woodward named the field after himself, using his nickname and the first part of his last name. It was the first concrete-and-steel stadium in the minors.\n\nWoodward invited Alabama Governor Braxton Bragg Comer, Birmingham Mayor Culpepper Exum, civic leader, George B. Ward and Victor H. Hanson, publisher of \"The Birmingham News\", for opening day on August 18, 1910. The day was celebrated by businesses closing all over town to allow fans to fill the park for the first pitch at 3:30 P.M. Over 10,000 people attended that first game in which the Barons defeated the visiting Montgomery Climbers 3-2. Throughout the first half of the 20th century Rickwood Field hosted sellout crowds for both the Barons and the Black Barons, who played on alternate weekends.\n\nIn 1912 a spring tornado tore through the field, pulling up the outfield fence. Two years later Woodward felt the need to have electric fans installed in the grandstands for the comfort of the crowd. The Pittsburgh Pirates also made Rickwood Field their spring training home in 1919.\n\nRickwood Field also hosted college football games. From 1912 to 1927 the Alabama Crimson Tide played its Birmingham home dates in Rickwood. In 1921 the outfield fence was damaged in a tornado and quickly rebuilt. In 1924–1927 the infield bleachers were covered with a steel-framed roof designed by Denham, VanKeuren & Denham, Architects of Birmingham. Shortly after, In 1928 a new Mission style entry structure with offices was built to the designs of Paul Wright & Co., Engineers of Birmingham. A new concrete outfield wall replaced the original fence.\n\nIn 1931 in the first game of the Dixie Series championship, Birmingham's 43-year-old Ray Caldwell outpitched 22-year-old Dizzy Dean, who had guaranteed a win. The Barons won the series 4 games to 3. In 1936 four monumental steel-frame light towers designed and fabricated by the Truscon Steel Company of Youngstown, Ohio were erected, allowing for night games. In 1938, Woodward sold the park to Ed Norton, a local businessman. In 1940 Norton sold it to the Cincinnati Reds. At that time new outfield fences were built inside the original walls to reduce the field dimensions. G. J. Jebeles of Birmingham purchased the park in 1944. A ladies' rest room was added and the outfield fence reduced again in 1948. In 1949 ownership changed hands again, going to a partnership of Al DeMent, Al Belcher, and Rufus Lackey. They added a small restaurant in the entrance building in 1950 and installed additional box seats, necessitating the relocations of the dugouts farther down the baselines. In 1958 Belcher gained a majority share and control of the park. In 1964 General Manager Glynn West purchased 1000 wooden seats from New York City's Polo Grounds and installed them at the park. Belcher sold Rickwood Field in 1966 to the City of Birmingham, but retained a lease for the remainder of that year.\n\nIn 1966 the lease was transferred to Charlie Finley, who brought the Kansas City Athletics' AA farm team to Birmingham for the 1967 season. That year is remembered for the day that 14,000 disappointed fans were sent home early when the Atlanta Braves vs. Southern League All-Stars exhibition game was called \"on account of tornado.\" During this period, following a trend which swept minor league baseball (and which has since been largely reversed), the team took the name of the parent major league club and was known as the \"Birmingham A's\". Between 1979 and 1980 the wooden seats were replaced with plastic seats in the box areas and metal bleachers under the grandstands.\n\nIn 1981 Art Clarkson brought minor league baseball back to Rickwood with the Detroit Tigers AA club, which resumed the Barons name. He had a new electronic scoreboard installed at the park. In 1986, the Barons became the Chicago White Sox AA club, an affiliation that continues today.\n\nIn 1987 the Barons moved to a new facility, Hoover Metropolitan Stadium, in the suburb of Hoover. They returned to Birmingham in 2013 with the opening of Regions Field, just south of downtown Birmingham.\n\nSince 1992 the ballpark has been under the care of the Friends of Rickwood who are restoring the facility to its former glory. They also host frequent amateur, police and semi-pro games and open the gates to visitors who can walk in and explore the grandstands or run the bases.\n\nSince 1996, Rickwood Field has hosted the Barons for a throwback game in which both teams wear period uniforms. Each game honors a different era in Birmingham baseball history. Ballpark enthusiasts from across North America migrate to Rickwood to attend this AA regulation game, named the \"Rickwood Classic\", every season. Many consider this game the best opportunity to experience a regulation ballgame in an historic ballpark that remains true to its original and traditional appearance. Those involved – the Barons franchise, Friends of Rickwood, and fans – fully believe that this experience in the sacred baseball cathedral is among the most underrated baseball events.\n\nScenes from the movies \"Cobb\" (1994) and \"Soul of the Game\" (1995) were filmed at Rickwood. Those productions contributed to the recreation of the scoreboard and press-box and the addition of 1940s period style advertisements on the outfield fence. Some of these retro-style ads have been sponsored by real Birmingham businesses, including a section sponsored by the descendants of Rick Woodward that advertises long-gone Woodward Iron Co. The outfield signs were designed by Ted Haigh, a Los Angeles-based graphic designer and executed by Skidmore Sign Company of Birmingham.\nIn May 2012, scenes from the movie \"42\" were also filmed at Rickwood Field.\n\nAs of 2005, the Friends of Rickwood have spent around $2 million refurbishing the grandstands, press-box, locker rooms, roof and main entrance to the park. Future plans include establishing a Museum of Southern Baseball.\n\nSince 2011 Play at the Plate Baseball has held an annual 3 day adult baseball tournament with 4 teams from various regions of the country participating. The event is usually held in June.\n\nESPN Classic broadcast a re-enactment of a Negro League game played at Rickwood on February 26, 2006. It featured teams wearing the uniforms of the fictitious \"Bristol Barnstormers\" (named for ESPN's hometown of Bristol, Connecticut) and the Birmingham Black Barons.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "28417877", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28417877", "title": "Rose Brothers Ground", "text": "Rose Brothers Ground\n\nRose Brothers Ground was a cricket ground in Gainsborough, Lincolnshire. The first recorded match on the ground was in 1851, when Gainsborough played an All-England Eleven. The first Minor Counties Championship match played at the ground saw Lincolnshire play Bedfordshire in 1927. From 1927 to 1961, the ground hosted 18 Minor Counties Championship matches, the last of which saw Lincolnshire play Shropshire.\n\nThe ground also held two first-class matches, the first of which came in 1931 between a combined Minor Counties team and the touring New Zealanders. The second first-class fixture held at the ground came in 1937 and was between the same sides as the 1931 fixture. The ground closed after the Rose Foxgrove company concentrated its production at Leeds in 1987\n\n"}
{"id": "19191544", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19191544", "title": "Sawyer Center", "text": "Sawyer Center\n\nThe Sawyer Center, named for Carl Brannon Sawyer, is the main athletic facility for Southern Nazarene University (SNU) and seats over 5,000. It is used for basketball and volleyball games played by the Southern Nazarene Crimson Storm. In addition to sporting events, the Sawyer Center also hosts all commencement, the New Student Institute for welcome week activities, and high school tournaments.\n\nThe first event held in the Sawyer Center was SNU's annual Excel Auction on February 11, 1998. The first sporting event was one week later, when the men's and women's basketball teams took on their cross-town rivals from Oklahoma City University. The Crimson Storm defeated both teams.\n\nFrom 2001 to 2008, the Sawyer Center was home to the championship games of the National Christian Homeschool Basketball Championships. Every year the event was held there, the Sawyer Center held capacity crowds. In the last 2 years of the tournament, people were being turned away because of firecodes.\n\nDue to the catastrophic devastation brought by Hurricane Katrina, the New Orleans Hornets franchise temporarily relocated their base of operations to Oklahoma City for two seasons in 2005–06 and 2006-07. During this time, the franchise was known as the New Orleans/Oklahoma City Hornets. In these two seasons, the vast majority of home games were played at the Ford Center in Oklahoma City, while a few remained at New Orleans Arena. During the New Orleans Hornets temporary relocation to Oklahoma City, the Sawyer Center was the official practice facility for the Oklahoma City/New Orleans Hornets.\n\nThe Sawyer Center will also serve as the temporary practice facility for the new Oklahoma City Thunder basketball team, until a permanent facility is built.\n\n"}
{"id": "770730", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=770730", "title": "Seals Stadium", "text": "Seals Stadium\n\nSeals Stadium was a minor league baseball stadium in San Francisco. Opened in the Mission District in 1931, it was the longtime home of the San Francisco Seals (1931–57) and the Mission Reds (1931–37), both of the Pacific Coast League. It was later home for the Major League San Francisco Giants for their first two seasons in the city, 1958 and 1959. Less than three decades old, the stadium was demolished in late 1959 after the completion of the baseball season.\n\nBuilt during the Depression, Seals Stadium opened on April 7, 1931. It cost $1,250,000 to construct, and Seals President \"Doc\" Strub described how laborers would leap onto the running boards of his automobile and beg for the opportunity to work on the project for $3 a day. The stadium was unusual in that it was built with three dressing rooms – one for the visiting team, and one for each of the minor league home teams, the San Francisco Seals and the Mission Reds, a.k.a. the San Francisco Missions. It was built for night games, with six tower banks which were described as the best in minor league baseball at the time. With a capacity of 18,600, the stadium had no roof over the grandstands because of San Francisco's lack of rainfall during the summertime and the fans' preference to sit in the sun. \nThe stadium initially consisted of an uncovered grandstand stretching from foul pole to foul pole and an uncovered bleacher section in right field. In some years during its minor league days, a live seal was kept in a water tank underneath the grandstand. The field was oriented southeast, with the right field bleachers bounded by 16th Street.\n\nAfter their inception in 1903 as an original Pacific Coast League member, the San Francisco Seals previously played at Recreation Park (1903–1913, 1915–1930) and Ewing Field (1914) before Seals Stadium was built to house the team. While the Seals played exclusively at Seals Stadium, the other original tenant, the Mission Reds, moved to Los Angeles in 1938 and become the Hollywood Stars. \n\nHall of Fame legend Joe DiMaggio grew up in San Francisco and played for the Seals from October 1932 through 1935. In 1933, DiMaggio hit safely in a record 61 straight games and had 169 RBI, with a batting average of.340. Another future major league player Gus Suhr had an incredible season for the Seals in 1929, hitting .381 with 51 home runs and 177 RBI. Other notable players for the Seals included: Dominic DiMaggio, Vince DiMaggio, Tony Lazzeri, Joe Cronin, Albie Pearson, Ferris Fain, Earl Averill and Lefty Gomez.\n\nThe Seals drew well at Seals Park, setting a minor league attendance record in 1948, drawing 670,000 fans. This showcased the feasibility that San Francisco could someday sustain and support a Major League franchise. After the Giants announced their move to San Francisco, the Seals were forced to move and the minor league franchise was relocated to Phoenix, Arizona in 1958, becoming the Phoenix Giants.\n\nOn May 28, 1957 the New York Giants and team owner Horace Stoneham announced they intended to leave the Polo Grounds in New York and move the franchise to San Francisco. The rest of the major league owners approved the move under the condition that the Brooklyn Dodgers would also complete their intended move to Los Angeles. The Dodgers' owner Walter O'Malley and San Francisco Mayor George Christopher had worked to partner with Stoneham on the move to San Francisco, as both teams moving to California together made sense for balance and travel. On August 19, 1957, after both teams and both cities worked out the logistics, the final announcement of the move was made. The Giants would play at Seals Stadium for two years while Candlestick Park was under construction and the Dodgers would play at Los Angeles Memorial Coliseum, bypassing the smaller Wrigley Field (Los Angeles), while Dodger Stadium was under construction.\n\nOn April 15, 1958, the first ever West Coast Major League game was played at Seals Park. With the legendary Willie Mays and Rookie (and future Hall of Famer) Orlando Cepeda in the lineup, the Giants opened with an 8-0 victory over Don Drysdale and the new Los Angeles Dodgers. Mays would go on to hit .347 with 29 home runs in 1958. Cepeda would win the National League Rookie of the Year Award in 1958. Willie McCovey, another future Hall of Famer, then won the award in 1959. Cepeda would hit his first career home run at Seals Stadium on April 15, 1958. The Giants would draw well at Seals Stadium, with attendance of 1,272,625 fans in 1958 and 1,422,130 in 1959.\n\nTo accommodate Major League Baseball, more seating was needed at Seals Stadium. A separate uncovered bleacher section was added in left field with the New York Giants move to the city in 1958. The Giants played at Seals Stadium for two years while Candlestick Park was under construction. Given the temporary nature of their stay at the old park, they declined to rename the stadium. Throughout the ballpark's MLB tenure, it lacked a warning track. The original plan was to play just the first year at Seals Stadium.\n\nPrevailing winds to left field aided right-handed hitters; of the 45 home runs hit in its first 19 major league games in 1958, 36 were to left field. A brewery was just north of the venue. At the time, its weather was thought to be considerably less favorable than at the site of the park under construction at Candlestick Point.\n\nThe final game at Seals Stadium took place on September 20, 1959. The Giants lost to the Los Angeles Dodgers 8-2 in front of 22,923.\n\nNo pitcher threw a no-hitter at Seals Stadium in Major League competition.\n\nOn February 22, 1933 boxer Young Corbett III defeated Jackie Fields at the stadium, earning the title of World Welterweight Champion. Corbett later won the Middleweight Championship at Seals, beating Fred Apostoli on February 22, 1938.\n\nWith the new ballpark safely nearing completion, Seals Stadium was demolished in November 1959. Many of the seats and the light towers were reused at Cheney Stadium in Tacoma, Washington. From the late 1960s to the mid-1970s, the site was a White Front discount department store. For many years afterward, the site (bounded by Bryant Street, 16th Street, Potrero Avenue and Alameda Street) housed several San Francisco automobile dealerships after the demise of Van Ness Avenue's famed auto row in 1982. In the late 1990s, it was converted to a shopping center.\nOn April 15, 2008, the Giants had a tribute at the Seals Stadium site and at AT&T Park to commemorate the 50th anniversary of the 1958 Opening Day. The Giants' home game that day – against the Arizona Diamondbacks – started at 1:35 p.m. The start time commemorated the same time of day that Giants' pitcher Ruben Gomez threw the first pitch at Seals Stadium on Opening Day, April 15, 1958. The first 20,000 fans attending the Diamondbacks-Giants game received a commemorative poster print of the Gomez' first pitch from 1958. Orlando Cepeda and Gino Cimoli, the first man at bat on that historic day, threw out the ceremonial first pitch.\n\nThere were pre-game events at the site of Seals Stadium. Ceremonies included the unveiling of a new bronze historical plaque at the site, a recreation of the radio call of the first pitch by Jon Miller, an honoring of Mike Murphy, the Giants 50-year legendary clubhouse manager, as well as speeches/recollections by Willie Mays and others. Among those recognized were Giants Hall of Famers Mays and Orlando Cepeda and former 1958 Giants players Jim Davenport and Eddie Bressoud. Descendants of former Giants' owner Horace Stoneham and Mayor George Christopher (both instrumental in moving the Giants from New York to San Francisco) were in attendance.\n\n"}
{"id": "20766783", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20766783", "title": "Skin infections and wrestling", "text": "Skin infections and wrestling\n\nSkin infections and wrestling is the role of skin infections in wrestling. This is an important topic in wrestling since breaks in the skin are easily invaded by bacteria or fungi and wrestling involves constant physical contact that can cause transmission of viral, bacterial, and fungal pathogens. These infections can also be spread through indirect contact, for example, from the skin flora of an infected individual to a wrestling mat, to another wrestler. According to the National Collegiate Athletic Association's (NCAA) Injury Surveillance System, ten percent of all time-loss injuries in wrestling are due to skin infections.\n\nBacterial infections, or pathogens, make up the largest category of include Furuncles, Carbuncles, Folliculitis, Impetigo, Cellulitis or Erysipelas, and Staphylococcal disease. These range in severity, but most are quickly identified by irritated and blotchy patches of skin. Bacterial infections, of all skin infections, are typically the easiest to treat, using a prescribed anti-bacterial lotion or crème.\n\nMolluscum Contagiosum is caused a DNA poxvirus called the molluscum contagiosum virus. For adults, molluscum infections are often sexually transmitted, but in wrestling, it is spread either through direct contact or through contact with shared items such as gear or towels. Molluscum Contagiosum can be identified by pink bulbous growths that contain the virus. These typically grow to be 1–5 millimeters in diameter, and last from 6 to 12 months without treatment and without leaving scars. Some growths may remain for up to 4 years. Treatment for Molluscun Contagiosum must be\ndesignated by a healthcare professional because they can be dangerous. Usually\nfor treatment liquid nitrogen can be used to freeze the molluscum off but other methods include other creams that burn the warts off, or oral medications.\n\nThe herpes simplex virus comes in two different strains, though only one is spread among wrestlers. Type 1 (HSV-1) can be transmitted through contact with an infected individual, and usually associated with sores on the lips, mouth, and face. HSV-1 can also cause infection of the eye, or even infection of the lining of the brain, known as meningoencephalitis. The lesions will heal on their own in 7 to 10 days, unless the infected individual has a condition that weakens the immune system. Once an infection occurs, the virus will spread to nerve cells, where it remains for the rest of the person’s life. Occasionally, the virus will suddenly display recurring symptoms, or flares. There is no complete treatment for Herpes Simplex 1 but there is prescription medication to help ease and relieve the symptoms of the virus. Antiviral oral medication and topic medication can be prescribed to relieve the pain and soreness of the herpes virus.\n\nVerrucae are small skin lesions which can be found on the bottom surface of the foot. They vary in length, from one centimeter in diameter upwards. Verrucae are caused by the human papilloma virus, which is common in all environments but does often attack the skin. The color of the lesion is usually paler then the normal tone of the skin, and is surrounded by a thick layer of calloused skin. Depending on the development of the Verrucae, the surface may show signs of blood vessels, which feed the infection.\n\nTinea infections, more commonly known as Ringworm, are the most common skin infections transmitted through wrestling. It is caused by parasitic fungi that survive on keratin, an organic material that is found in skin, hair, and nails. There are several varieties of Tinea, which are classified depending on their location. Tinea corporis is found on the body, tinea cruris (jock itch) on the groin, tinea capitis on the scalp, and tinea pedis (athlete’s foot) on the foot. Although they are not harmful, they are highly contagious and difficult to treat. The symptoms of ringworm include patches of skin that are red, swollen, and irritated, forming the shape of a ring. Ringworm will last between two and four weeks with treatment. Tinea infections can be combatted orally or topically with numerous different medications. Some topical treatments include Mentax 1%, Lamisil 1%, Naftin 1% and Spectazole and these creams should be applied two times a day until the infection is gone. Oral treaments for Tinea include Lamisil, Sporanox, and Diflucan.\n\nAt the start of each wrestling meet, trained referees examine the skin of all wrestlers before any participation. During this examination, male wrestlers are to wear shorts; female wrestlers are only permitted to wear shorts and a sports bra. Open wounds and infectious skin conditions that cannot be adequately protected are considered grounds for disqualification from both practice and competition. This essentially means that the skin condition has been deemed as non-infectious and adequately medicated, covered with a tight wrapping and proper ointment. In addition, the wrestler must have developed no new lesions in the 72 hours before the examination. Wrestlers who are undergoing treatment for a communicable skin disease at the time of the meet or tournament shall provide written documentation to that effect from a physician. This documentation should include the wrestler’s diagnosis, culture results (if possible), date and time therapy began, and the exact names of medication for treatment. These measures aren’t always successful, and the infection is sometimes spread regardless.\n\nAccording to the NCAA Wrestling Rules and Interpretations and NFHS Sports Medicine Advisory Committee, used by all high schools in the United States: \"Infection control measures, or measures that seek to prevent the spread of disease, should be utilized to reduce the risks of disease transmission. Efforts should be made to improve wrestler hygiene practices, to utilize recommended procedures for cleaning and disinfection of surfaces, and to handle blood and other bodily fluids appropriately. Suggested measures include: promotion of hand hygiene practices; educating athletes not to pick, squeeze, or scratch skin lesions; encouraging athletes to shower after activity; educating athletes not to share protective gear, towels, razors or water bottles; ensuring recommended procedures for cleaning and disinfection of wrestling mats, all athletic equipment, locker rooms, and whirlpool tubs are closely followed; and verifying clean up of blood and other potentially infectious materials.\" More ways of prevention include wearing long sleeve shirts and sweatpants to limit\nthe amount of skin to skin contact. A wrestler should also not share their\nequipment with other teammates. Body wipes are also common to see Coaches must also enforce the disinfecting and sanitary cleansing of the wrestling mats and other practice areas. This can greatly limit the spread of skin infections that can infect an individual indirectly.\n\nOne high school wrestling coach from Southern California described his methods of prevention using three simple procedures. “Keep the mats [clean]…you’ve got to bleach and mop them every day before practice. Along the same lines, gear should also be washed regularly, especially headgear…Most importantly, the wrestlers need to shower immediately after practices. If one kid doesn’t, and he gets [infected], it can spread to everyone else on the team within a week. I’ve had it happen before, to the point where some schools won’t allow any of our guys to wrestle in a meet. When this happens, it’s a huge blow to the school’s record and reputation. In the future, we are less likely to be invited to exclusive tournaments in the coming year.”\n\nFor every form of contagious infection, there is a readily available form of medication that can be purchased at any pharmacy. It is a commonly held belief among wrestlers, however, that these ointments do not treat symptoms Sometimes wrestlers who don’t want to report an infection to their coach will resort to unusual and unhealthy treatments. Included among these ‘home remedies’ are nail polish remover, bleach, salt, and vinegar solutions, which are used to either suffocate or burn the infection, often leaving extensive scars. The remedies, while sometimes successful, are not guaranteed to actually kill the infection, often only eliminating visible symptoms temporarily. Even though the infection may no longer be symptomatic, it can still be easily transmitted to other individuals. Because of this, it is recommended that wrestlers attempting to treat skin infections use conventional medicine, as prescribed by a physician.\n\nHSV-1 (July 1989) – An outbreak of Herpes Simplex was reported at a four-week high school wrestling camp in Minneapolis, which was attended by wrestlers from 26 states and 1 Canadian province. According to a report on the outbreak: “Wrestlers wore jerseys during practice sessions, but the use of headgear was optional. Wrestling mats were mopped twice each day with disinfectant. Epidemiologic and clinical data were collected during the final two days of the camp after officials alerted the Minnesota Department of Health, which, in turn, alerted the Centers for Disease Control. Results from 171 wrestlers (of 175 attendees) showed that 35 percent (60 boys) met the case definition for HSV-1 infection.”\n\n"}
{"id": "11616059", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11616059", "title": "Suburban Christian Conference", "text": "Suburban Christian Conference\n\nThe Suburban Christian Conference was a system of Christian schools in Chicago's suburbs organized to compete against each other athletically.\n\nFormerly called the Suburban Catholic Conference, the conference changed its name to the Suburban Christian Conference in 2009 and include four new schools, three of which are from the disbanding Private School League.\n\nDuring the 2013-2014, seven members decided to move to the Metro Suburban Conference, effective during the 2014-2015 academic year. The remaining five high schools moved to either the Chicago Catholic League or the East Suburban Catholic Conference, effectively ended the SCC's run as one of Illinois' premier non-public athletic conferences.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "12067008", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12067008", "title": "Tennis Ireland", "text": "Tennis Ireland\n\nTennis Ireland is the governing body for Tennis for the whole of Ireland with responsibilities for clubs and competitions. Tennis Ireland is divided into four Branches corresponding to the four provinces of Ireland with its national headquarters located on the campus of Dublin City University\n\nTennis Ireland was formed in 1908 as the Irish Lawn Tennis Association, a federation of 14 Irish tennis clubs. It became independent of the Lawn Tennis Association following the creation of the Irish Free State in 1922. \n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "5405326", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5405326", "title": "Thani bin Jassim Stadium", "text": "Thani bin Jassim Stadium\n\nThe Thani bin Jassim Stadium (), also known as the Al-Gharrafa Stadium, is a multi-purpose stadium in the Al Gharrafa district of Al Rayyan, Qatar. It is currently used mostly for football matches. The football team Al-Gharrafa play there. The stadium holds 21,175 people and was built in 2003. The stadium hosted 2011 AFC Asian Cup and other international competitions.\n\nIt has plans to have a facade made up the colours of the flags that will have qualified for the 2022 FIFA World Cup, symbolising football and friendship, mutual tolerance, respect and understanding. The existing 25,000 capacity football stadium will be expanded to 44,740 to meet World Cup capacity. The modular design of the second tier will allow for easy disassembly once the games come to a conclusion. However, as of December 2017, the expansion process was not yet launched. \n"}
{"id": "48753819", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48753819", "title": "Tunisia at the 2017 World Games", "text": "Tunisia at the 2017 World Games\n\nTunisia is scheduled to compete at the World Games 2017 in Wroclaw, Poland, from 20 July 2017 to 30 July 2017. \n\nTunisia has qualified at the 2017 World Games:\n\n"}
{"id": "37722031", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37722031", "title": "Turkish Swimming Federation", "text": "Turkish Swimming Federation\n\nThe Turkish Swimming Federation (, TYF) is the governing body of the five aquatic sports, namely swimming, diving, synchronized swimming, water polo and open water swimming in Turkey. It was founded in 1957. The Turkish organization is member of the European Swimming League (LEN), the International Swimming Federation (FINA) and Turkish Olympic Committee. The TYF is based in Ankara and its current chairman is Associate Prof. Dr. Ahmet Mazhar Bozdoğan.\n\nThe Turkish Swimming Federation organizes aquatic sports competitions at national, European and World level in all categories for men and women of recognized age classes.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "22061184", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22061184", "title": "Victorian State League Division 3", "text": "Victorian State League Division 3\n\nThe Victorian State League Division 3 is the fifth tier soccer competition (behind the National Premier Leagues) in Victoria, Australia, and the sixth nationally, including the A-League. It is conducted by the Football Federation Victoria, the state's football governing body.\n\nThe following 24 clubs from 2 conferences of 12 who are competing in the Victorian State League Division 3 during the 2018 season.\n\nState League Division 3 North-west\nState League Division 3 South-east\n"}
{"id": "37041155", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37041155", "title": "Women's football in Israel", "text": "Women's football in Israel\n\nWomen's football in Israel is growing in popularity but many of the best female players have to play abroad to improve their skills.\n\nOne of the barriers that prevent the sport growing is that many women experience prejudice for playing the sport.\n\nThe Israel Football Association (IFA) is the governing body of football in the State of Israel. All of Israel's professional football clubs must be members, and hundreds of semi-professional and amateur clubs also belong.\n\n"}
