{"id": "19406289", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19406289", "title": "14 Women", "text": "14 Women\n\n14 Women is a 2007 documentary film directed by Mary Lambert and narrated by Annette Bening. The film released on June 14, 2007, and focuses on several female Senators serving in the 109th United States Congress.\n\nThe film examines the 109th United States Congress. When it convened, there were fourteen women in the Senate: Barbara Boxer, Maria Cantwell, Hillary Clinton, Susan Collins, Elizabeth Dole, Dianne Feinstein, Kay Bailey Hutchison, Mary Landrieu, Blanche Lincoln, Barbara Mikulski, Lisa Murkowski, Patty Murray, Olympia Snowe, and Debbie Stabenow. The documentary features interviews with several people, including the Senators' family members, Delaware Senator Joe Biden, and singer Alanis Morissette.\n\nPolitico.com and DVD Talk both gave positive reviews for \"14 Women\", with DVD Talk commented that while it was \"far from definitive\", the film has \"admirable aims and will probably play well with schoolkids.\" \"Variety\" gave a more mixed response to the film, saying that \"Political junkies, idealistic schoolgirls and everyone in between will be thrilled to vary-ing degrees\" by the movie but that it also felt like a \"recruitment vid for public service\".\n\n"}
{"id": "10065073", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10065073", "title": "1585 in music", "text": "1585 in music\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "226389", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=226389", "title": "1631 in literature", "text": "1631 in literature\n\nThis article is a summary of the literary events and publications of 1631.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "9996577", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9996577", "title": "Abraham Berline", "text": "Abraham Berline\n\nAbraham Joseph Berline (6 October 1893 – 1942) was a Russian artist who lived in Paris and died during World War II.\n\nAbraham Joseph Berline was born on October 6, 1893, in Nizhyn, Russian Empire (currently in Ukraine). He was the son of Leib Berline and Hana Kaganoff. In 1912, at the age of 19, he emigrated to Paris to study at the Ecole des Beaux Arts. He supported himself by driving a taxi and every place he saw figured in his landscapes. His work was highly regarded and exhibited at the most prestigious Parisian salons: Salon d'Automne, Salon des Indépendants, Salon des Tuileries, the Paul Appel Gallery, and in private galleries.\n\nWhen France was invaded, Berline joined the Resistance, but in May 1941 Berline was arrested in the Billet Vert operation and interned as a Russian Jew in Compiègne camp. He continued to produce work, mainly pastels, focusing on the beauty of nature, in an attempt to transcend the camp experience through art. These paintings were shown in the camp along with other artists' work. After seven months he was transferred to Drancy internment camp, and from there to Auschwitz, as was his wife Doucia—never to return. His works are included in the art collection of the Ghetto Fighters' House Museum and the Musée d'Histoire Contemporaine in Paris.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "17978908", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17978908", "title": "Acqua di Parma", "text": "Acqua di Parma\n\nAcqua di Parma is an Italian lifestyle and fashion company that produces fragrances, candles, bathrobes and leather accessories. All of its ranges are exclusively made in Italy, and distributed in 43 countries.\n\nThe company's original fragrance, Colonia, was created in 1916 in a small perfume factory in the center of Parma's historic old town, after which the company is named.\n\nAt the time, the majority of commercial perfumes were much stronger and heavier in composition; so the unusually light and refreshing fragrance from Parma found wide success in Europe.\n\nIn the 1930s the increasing popularity of the cologne led to an increase in production and the development of its distribution. The thirties and fifties are described as a 'golden age' for Acqua di Parma Colonia, which became very successful among members of high society, with celebrity clientele.\n\nOver the years, the brand expanded its product range, introducing a home collection that includes bathrobes and towels, and leather goods.\n\nIn 1993 the brand was revived by entrepreneurs Luca di Montezemolo (former chairman of Ferrari), Diego Della Valle (President and CEO of Tod's, (a shoeware and leather company)) and Paolo Borgomanero (a major shareholder of lingerie retailer La Perla).\n\nIn 1998 Acqua di Parma opened its first boutique on Milan's Via del Gesù (in the Quadrilatero della moda district), followed by Paris’s Rue des Francs Bourgeois in Le Marais in 2012, Rome’s Piazza di Spagna in 2014, and Miami's Brickell City Centre in 2017.\n\nThe company was acquired by multi-national LVMH in 2001, and is now headquartered in Milan.\n\nIn May 2008 the company entered the luxury spa market with the Blu Mediterraneo Spa in Porto Cervo (Sardinia). In 2013 the company opened its second spa at the Gritti Palace in Venice.\n\nIn 2013, the company launched La Nobiltà del Fare (“The Nobility of Work”), a book focusing on stories of Italian arts and crafts excellence, featuring photography by Giovanni Gastel.\n\nThe company's logo is the coat of arms of Marie Louise, Duchess of Parma, who ruled from 1816-1847. This is in homage to her rule and to the help she provided to develop the perfume and glass industry of Parma.\n\nColonias\n\nFeminine fragrances\n\nBlu Mediterraneo\n\nCollezione Barbiere\n\nBlu Mediterraneo Italian Resort\n\nHome fragrances (room sprays and candles)\n\nHome collection (bathrobes and towels)\n\nLeather collections\n\nGli Esclusivi (luxury home and travel accessories)\n\nThe company has continued the cylindrical bottles, rounded boxes and bright yellow packaging of the original product.\n"}
{"id": "15881905", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15881905", "title": "Alliance for Young Artists &amp; Writers", "text": "Alliance for Young Artists &amp; Writers\n\nThe Alliance for Young Artists & Writers, a 501(c)(3) nonprofit organization established in 1994, identifies teenagers with exceptional creative talent and brings their remarkable work to a national audience through the Scholastic Art & Writing Awards. The Alliance partners with nearly 100 Regional Affiliates across the country to provide creative teens with opportunities for recognition, exhibition, publication, and scholarships.\n\nThe Scholastic Art & Writing Awards provide scholarships for teenagers in the United States. The Awards program was created in 1923 by Maurice R. \"Robbie\" Robinson, founder of Scholastic Corporation, and has been administered by the Alliance for Young Artists & Writers since 1994. Its past award recipients include Andy Warhol, Frances Farmer, , Cy Twombly, , Sylvia Plath, Truman Capote, Richard Avedon, Richard Linklater, Stephen King, John Updike, Ken Burns, Lena Dunham, Paul Chan, Kay WalkingStick, Zac Posen and Joyce Carol Oates among many others.\n\nEstablished to ensure that literary and artistic talent were recognized in schools and communities across the country, the program began as a small writing contest; today, it offers recognition in 29 categories including architecture, sculpture, painting, photography, poetry, dramatic script, fashion, animation, and video games. The Awards are open to all students in grades 7–12 from public, private, and home schools throughout the U.S. (and its territories), as well as American-run schools abroad and community programs serving eligible student populations.\n\nThe program links the National Student Poets with audiences and neighborhood resources such as museums and libraries, and other community-anchor institutions and builds upon the Alliance for Young Artists & Writers' long-standing work with educators and creative teens through the prestigious Scholastic Art & Writing Awards. The Poets’ appointment events are hosted in cooperation with the Library of Congress in Washington, D.C., and held in conjunction with the National Book Festival.\n\nThe selection panels for both regional and national levels of the Scholastic Art & Writing Awards are composed of artists, writers, curators, critics, educators, and professionals from the nation’s leading creative industries, some of whom are alums of the Scholastic Awards. Notable past jurors include Robert Frost, Langston Hughes, David Sedaris, Judy Blume, Bill Murray, Philip-Lorca diCorcia, Mary Ellen Mark, William Saroyan, Sergio Troncoso, Frank McCourt, Kiki Smith, George Plimpton, Esmeralda Santiago, Princess Tatiana von Fürstenberg, Madeleine L’Engle, Faith Ringgold, Billy Collins, Edward Sorel, Edwidge Danticat, Donald Lipski, Carolyn Forché, Ned Vizzini, and Michael Bierut. Panelists look for works that best exemplify originality, technical skill, and the emergence of a personal voice or vision.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "43749462", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43749462", "title": "Andhra Pradesh State Handloom Weavers Cooperative Society", "text": "Andhra Pradesh State Handloom Weavers Cooperative Society\n\nThe Andhra Pradesh State Handloom Weavers Cooperative Society popularly known as APCO, is a cooperative of traditional handloom weavers of the Indian state of Andhra Pradesh. This is under the control of Department of Handlooms and Textiles of Government of Andhra Pradesh. The organisation owns a number of shopping outlets in Andhra Pradesh. The Society was registered in the year 1976 with registered No.T.P.W.44 under the Andhra Pradesh Cooperative Societies Act.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2090365", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2090365", "title": "Anglo-Saxon art", "text": "Anglo-Saxon art\n\nAnglo-Saxon art covers art produced within the Anglo-Saxon period of English history, beginning with the Migration period style that the Anglo-Saxons brought with them from the continent in the 5th century, and ending in 1066 with the Norman Conquest of a large Anglo-Saxon nation-state whose sophisticated art was influential in much of northern Europe. The two periods of outstanding achievement were the 7th and 8th centuries, with the metalwork and jewellery from Sutton Hoo and a series of magnificent illuminated manuscripts, and the final period after about 950, when there was a revival of English culture after the end of the Viking invasions. By the time of the Conquest the move to the Romanesque style is nearly complete. The important artistic centres, in so far as these can be established, were concentrated in the extremities of England, in Northumbria, especially in the early period, and Wessex and Kent near the south coast.\n\nAnglo-Saxon art survives mostly in illuminated manuscripts, Anglo-Saxon architecture, a number of very fine ivory carvings, and some works in metal and other materials. Opus Anglicanum (\"English work\") was already recognised as the finest embroidery in Europe, although only a few pieces from the Anglo-Saxon period remain – the Bayeux Tapestry is a rather different sort of embroidery, on a far larger scale. As in most of Europe at the time, metalwork was the most highly regarded form of art by the Anglo-Saxons, but hardly any survives – there was enormous plundering of Anglo-Saxon churches, monasteries and the possessions of the dispossessed nobility by the new Norman rulers in their first decades, as well as the Norsemen before them, and the English Reformation after them, and most survivals were once on the continent. Anglo-Saxon taste favoured brightness and colour, and an effort of the imagination is often needed to see the excavated and worn remains that survive as they once were.\n\nPerhaps the best known piece of Anglo-Saxon art is the Bayeux Tapestry which was commissioned by a Norman patron from English artists working in the traditional Anglo-Saxon style. Anglo-Saxon artists also worked in fresco, stone, ivory and whalebone (notably the Franks Casket), metalwork (for example the Fuller brooch), glass and enamel, many examples of which have been recovered through archaeological excavation and some of which have simply been preserved over the centuries, especially in churches on the Continent, as the Vikings, Normans and Reformation iconoclasm between them left virtually nothing in England except for books and archaeological finds.\n\nMetalwork is almost the only form in which the earliest Anglo-Saxon art has survived, mostly in Germanic-style jewelry (including fittings for clothes and weapons) which was, before the Christianization of Anglo-Saxon England, commonly placed in burials. After the conversion, which took most of the 7th century, the fusion of Germanic Anglo-Saxon, Celtic and Late Antique techniques and motifs, together with the requirement for books, created Hiberno-Saxon style, or Insular art, which is also seen in illuminated manuscripts and some carved stone and ivory, probably mostly drawing from decorative metalwork motifs, and with further influences from the British Celts of the west and the Franks. The Kingdom of Northumbria in the far north of England was the crucible of Insular style in Britain, at centres such as Lindisfarne, founded c. 635 as an offshoot of the Irish monastery on Iona, and Monkwearmouth-Jarrow Abbey (674) which looked to the continent. At about the same time as the Insular Lindisfarne Gospels was being made in the early 8th century, the Vespasian Psalter from Canterbury in the far south, which the missionaries from Rome had made their headquarters, shows a wholly different, classically based art. These two styles mixed and developed together and by the following century the resulting Anglo-Saxon style had reached maturity.\n\nHowever Anglo-Saxon society was massively disrupted in the 9th century, especially the later half, by the Viking invasions, and the number of significant objects surviving falls considerably, and their dating becomes even vaguer than of those from a century before. Most monasteries in the north were closed for decades, if not forever, and after the Canterbury Bible of before 850, perhaps well before, \"no major illuminated manuscript is known until well on into the tenth century\". King Alfred (r. 871–899) held the Vikings back to a line running diagonally across the middle of England, above which they settled in the Danelaw, and were gradually integrated into what was now a unified Anglo-Saxon kingdom. The final phase of Anglo-Saxon art is known as the Winchester School or style, though it was produced in many centres in the south of England, and perhaps the Midlands also. Elements of this begin to be seen from around 900, but the first major manuscripts only appear around the 930s. The style combined influences from the continental art of the Holy Roman Empire with elements of older English art, and some particular elements including a nervous agitated style of drapery, sometimes matched by figures, especially in line drawings, which are the only images in many manuscripts, and were to remain especially prominent in medieval English art.\n\nEarly Anglo-Saxon manuscript illumination forms part of Insular art, a combination of influences from Mediterranean, Celtic and Germanic styles that arose when the Anglo-Saxons encountered Irish missionary activity in Northumbria, at Lindisfarne and Iona in particular. At the same time the Gregorian mission from Rome and its successors imported continental manuscripts like the Italian St. Augustine Gospels, and for a considerable period the two styles appear mixed in a variety of proportions in Anglo-Saxon manuscripts. In the Lindisfarne Gospels, of around 700–715, there are carpet pages and Insular initials of unprecedented complexity and sophistication, but the evangelist portraits, clearly following Italian models, greatly simplify them, misunderstand some details of the setting, and give them a border with interlace corners. The portrait of St Matthew is based on the same Italian model, or one extremely similar, used for the figure of Ezra that is one of the two large miniatures in the Codex Amiatinus (before 716), but the style there is very different; a far more illusionistic treatment, and an \"attempt to introduce a pure Mediterranean style into Anglo-Saxon England\", which failed, as \"perhaps too advanced\", leaving these images apparently as the only evidence.\n\nA different mixture is seen in the opening from the Stockholm Codex Aureus (mid-8th century, left) where the evangelist portrait to the left is in a consistent adaptation of Italian style, probably closely following some lost model, though adding interlace to the chair frame, while the text page to the right is mainly in Insular style, especially in the first line, with its vigorous Celtic spirals and interlace. The following lines revert to a quieter style more typical of Frankish manuscripts of the period. Yet the same artist almost certainly produced both pages, and is very confident in both styles; the evangelist portrait of John includes roundels with Celtic spiral decoration probably drawn from the enamelled escutcheons of hanging bowls. This is one of the so-called \"Tiberius group\" of manuscripts, which leant towards the Italian style, and appear to be associated with Kent, or perhaps the kingdom of Mercia in the heyday of the Mercian Supremacy. It is, in the usual chronology, the last English manuscript in which \"developed trumpet spiral patterns\" are found. \nThe 9th century, especially the latter half, has very few major survivals made in England, but was a period when Insular and Anglo-Saxon influence on Carolingian manuscripts was at its height, from scriptoria such as those at the Anglo-Saxon mission's foundation at Echternach Abbey (though the important Echternach Gospels were created in Northumbria), and the major monastery at Tours, where Alcuin of York was followed by another Anglo-Saxon abbot, between them covering the period from 796 to 834. Although Tours' own library was destroyed by Norsemen, over 60 9th century illuminated manuscripts from the \"scriptorium\" survive, in a style showing many borrowings from English models, especially in initial pages, where Insular influence remained visible in northern France until even the 12th century. The Anglo-Saxon metalwork produced in the Salzburg area of modern Austria has a manuscript counterpart in the \"Cutbercht Gospels\" in Vienna.\n\nBy the 10th century Insular elements were relegated to decorative embellishments in England, as the first phase of the \"Winchester style\" developed. The first plant ornament, with leaves and grapes, was already seen in an initial in the Leningrad Bede, which can probably be dated to 746. The other large initial in the manuscript is the first historiated initial (one containing a portrait or scene, here Christ or a saint) in the whole of Europe. The classically derived vine or plant scroll was to largely oust interlace as the dominant filler of ornamental spaces in Anglo-Saxon art, just as it did in much of Europe beginning with Carolingian art, though in England animals within the scrolls remained much more common than abroad. For some long time scrolls, especially in metal, bone or ivory, are prone to have an animal head at one end and a plant element at the other. All these changes were not restricted to manuscripts, and may not have been driven by manuscript style, but we have a greater number of manuscripts surviving than works in other media, even if in most cases illuminations are restricted to initials and perhaps a few miniatures. Several ambitious projects of illumination are unfinished, such as the Old English Hexateuch, which has some 550 scenes in various stages of completion, giving insight into working methods. The illustrations give Old Testament scenes an entirely contemporary setting and are valuable images of Anglo-Saxon life.\n\nManuscripts from the Winchester School or style only survive from about the 930s onwards; this coincided with a wave of revival and reform within English monasticism, encouraged by King Æthelstan (r. 924/5-939) and his successors. Æthelstan promoted Dunstan (909–988), a practising illuminator, eventually to Archbishop of Canterbury, and also Æthelwold and the French-trained Norseman Oswald. Illumination in a new style appears in a manuscript of the biographies by Bede of St Cuthbert given by Æthelstan to the monastery in Chester-le-Street about 937. There is a dedication portrait of the king presenting his book to the saint, the two of them standing outside a large church. This is the first real portrait of an English king, and heavily influenced by Carolingian style, with an elegant inhabited acanthus border. However, the initials in the text combine Carolingian elements with animal forms in inventive fashion. Miniatures added in England to the continental Aethelstan Psalter begin to show Anglo-Saxon liveliness in figure drawing in compositions derived from Carolingian and Byzantine models, and over the following decades the distinctive Winchester style with agitated draperies and elaborate acanthus borders develops.\n\nThe Benedictional of St. Æthelwold is a masterpiece of the later Winchester style, which drew on Insular, Carolingian, and Byzantine art to make a heavier and more grandiose style, where the broad classicising acanthus foliage sometimes seems over-luxuriant. Anglo-Saxon illustration included many lively pen drawings, on which the Carolingian Utrecht Psalter, in Canterbury from about 1000, was highly influential; the Harley Psalter is a copy of it. The Ramsey Psalter (c. 990) contains pages in both the painted and tinted drawing styles, including the first Beatus initial with a \"lion mask\", while the Tiberius Psalter, from the last years before the Conquest, uses mainly the tinted. Anglo-Saxon culture was coming into increasing contact with, and exchanging influences with, a wider Latin Mediaeval Europe. Anglo-Saxon drawing had a great influence in Northern France throughout the 11th century, in the so-called \"Channel school\", and Insular decorative elements such as interlace remained popular into the 12th century in the Franco-Saxon style.\n\nPagan Anglo-Saxon metalwork initially uses the Germanic Animal Style I and II decoration that would be expected from recent immigrants, but gradually develops a distinctive Anglo-Saxon character, as in the Quoit Brooch Style of the 5th century. Round disk brooches were preferred for the grandest pieces, over continental styles of \"fibulae\" and Romano-British penannular brooches, a consistent Anglo-Saxon taste throughout the period; the Harford Farm Brooch is a 7th-century example. Decoration included cloisonné (\"cellwork\"), in gold and garnet for high-status pieces. Despite a considerable number of other finds, the discovery of the ship-burial at Sutton Hoo, probably interred in the 620s, transformed the history of Anglo-Saxon art, showing a level of sophistication and quality that was wholly unexpected at this date. The most famous finds are the helmet and matching suite of purse-lid, belt and other fittings of the king buried there, which made clear the source in Anglo-Saxon art, previously much disputed, of many elements of the style of Insular manuscripts. \nBy the 10th century Anglo-Saxon metalwork had a famous reputation as far afield as Italy, where English goldsmiths worked on plate for the altar of St Peter's itself, but hardly any pieces have survived the depredations of the Norman Conquest in 1066, and the English Reformation, and none of the large-scale ones, shrines, doors and statues, that we know existed, and of which a few contemporary continental examples have survived. The references to specific works by the 11th century monastic artist Spearhafoc, none of which have identifiably survived, are about works in precious metal, and he is one of a small number of metalwork artists from the period whose name we know and whose work is described in any way. According to several sources, including the Norman chronicler Goscelin, who knew him personally, Spearhafoc \"was outstanding in painting, gold-engraving and goldsmithery\", the painting very likely mainly in illuminated manuscripts. It was probably his artistic work which brought into contact with the royal family, and launched his rapid promotion in the church. Even the imprecise details given, mostly by Goscelin, are therefore valuable evidence of what Anglo-Saxon metalwork was like. Anglo-Saxon skill in gold-engraving, designs and figures engraved on gold objects, is mentioned by many foreign sources, and the few remaining engraved figures closely parallel the far more numerous pen-drawn figures in manuscripts, also an Anglo-Saxon speciality. Wall-paintings, which seem to have sometimes contained gold, were also apparently often made by manuscript illuminators, and Goscelin's description of his talents therefore suggests an artist skilled in all the main Anglo-Saxon media for figurative art – of which being a goldsmith was then regarded as the most prestigious branch. One 11th century lay goldsmith was even a \"thegn\".\nMany monastic artists reached senior positions; Spearhafoc's career in metalwork was paralleled in less sensational fashion by his contemporary Mannig, Abbot of Evesham (Abbot 1044–58, d. 1066), and at the end of the previous century Saint Dunstan had been a very successful Archbishop of Canterbury. Like Spearhafoc, Mannig's biography, with some precise details, is given in the chronicle maintained by his abbey. His work also had a miracle associated with it – the lay goldsmith Godric stabbed his hand with an awl during the work on the large shrine at Evesham, which was miraculously healed overnight. Spearhafoc and Mannig are the \"only two goldsmiths of whom we have extended accounts\", and the additional information given about Godric, the leader of a team brought in by Mannig for the shrine, is also unique among the surviving evidence. Some twenty years after the miracle, he joined the Abbey of Evesham, presumably in retirement, and his son later became Prior there.\n\nIn the final century of the period some large figures in precious metal are recorded; presumably these were made of thin sheets over a wooden core like the Golden Madonna of Essen, the largest example of this type of Early Medieval figure to survive from anywhere in Europe. These appear to have been life-size, or nearly so, and were mostly crucifixes, sometimes with figures of Mary and John the Evangelist on either side. Patronage by the great figures of the land, and the largest monasteries, became extravagant in this period, and the greatest late Anglo-Saxon churches must have presented a dazzling spectacle, somewhat in the style of Eastern Orthodox churches. Anglo-Saxon taste revelled in expensive materials and the effects of light on precious metals, which were also embroidered into fabrics and used on wall-paintings. Sections of decorated elements from some large looted works such as reliquaries were sawn up by Viking raiders and taken home to their wives to wear as jewellery, and a number of these survive in Scandinavian museums.\nWhile larger works are all lost, several small objects and fragments have survived, nearly all having been buried; in recent decades professional archaeology as well as metal-detecting and deep ploughing have greatly increased the number of objects known. Among the few unburied exceptions are the secular Fuller Brooch, and two works made in Anglo-Saxon style carried to Austria by the Anglo-Saxon mission, the Tassilo Chalice (late 8th century) and the Rupertus Cross. Especially in the 9th century, Anglo-Saxon styles, sometimes derived from manuscripts rather than metal examples, are found in a great number of smaller pieces of jewellery and other small fittings from across northern Europe. From England itself, the Alfred Jewel, with an enamel face, is the best known of a group of finely worked liturgical jewels, and there are a number of high quality disk brooches. The most ornate of earlier ones are colourful and complicated with inlays and filigrees, but the 9th century Pentney Hoard, discovered in 1978, contained six splendid brooches in flat silver openwork in the \"Trewhiddle style\". In these small but fully formed animals, of no recognisable species, contort themselves in foliage and tendrils that interlace, but without the emphatic geometry of the earlier \"ribbon\" style. Ædwen's brooch, an 11th-century Anglo-Scandinavian silver disk brooch, shows influence from Viking art, and a fall-off from the highest earlier standards of workmanship.\n\nIn 2009 the Staffordshire hoard, a major hoard of over 1,500 fragments of 7th and ?8th century metalwork pieces, mostly gold and military in nature, many with gold and garnet cloisonné inlays of high quality, was found by a metal-detectorist in Staffordshire, then in Mercia. Jewellery is far more often found from burials of the early pagan period, as Christianity discouraged grave-goods, even including the personal possessions of the deceased. Early Anglo-Saxon jewellery includes various types of \"fibulae\" that are close to their Continental Germanic equivalents, but until Sutton Hoo rarely of outstanding quality, which is why that find transformed thinking about early Anglo-Saxon art.\n\nThe earliest Anglo-Saxon coin type, the silver \"sceat\", forced craftsmen, no doubt asked to copy Roman and contemporary continental styles, to work outside their traditional forms and conventions in respect of the heads on the obverse, with results that are varied and often compelling. Later silver pennies, with largely linear relief heads of kings in profile on the obverse, are more uniform, as representatives of what was a stable and respected currency by contemporary European standards. A number of complete \"seax\" knives have survived with inscriptions and some decoration, and sword fittings and other military pieces are an important form of jewellery. A treatise on social status needed to say that mere ownership of a gilded sword did not make a man a \"ceorle\", the lowest rank of free men.\n\nApart from Anglo-Saxon architecture, which survives entirely in churches, with only a handful of largely unaltered examples, monumental stone sculpture survives in large stone crosses, an equivalent to the high crosses of the Celtic areas of Britain. Most sculpture was probably once painted, clarifying the designs, which are mostly in relatively low relief and not finished with great precision, and now almost all badly worn and weathered. Dating is usually difficult. Sculpture in wood was very likely more common, but almost the only significant large survival is St Cuthbert's coffin in Durham Cathedral, probably made in 698, with numerous linear images carved or incised in a technique that is a sort of large-scale engraving. The material of the earliest recorded crosses is unknown, but may well have been wood. From various references (to its destruction by Christians) there would seem to have been a tradition of Anglo-Saxon pagan monumental sculpture, probably in wood, of which no examples remain (as opposed to later Anglo-Scandinavian pagan imagery), and with which the crosses initially competed.\n\nThe Anglo-Saxon crosses have survived less well than those in Ireland, being more subject to iconoclasm after the English Reformation. Some featured large figurative sculpture of considerable quality, as on the Ruthwell Cross and Bewcastle Cross (both probably around 800). Vine-scroll decoration and interlace are seen in alternating panels on the early Northumbrian Ruthwell, Bewcastle and Easby Crosses, though the vine-scroll is already more prominent, and has faces to itself. Later Southumbrian crosses often only use vine-scrolls. There may be inscriptions, in the runic or Roman scripts, and Latin or Old English, most famously at Ruthwell, where some of the poem the \"Dream of the Rood\" is inscribed together with Latin texts; more often donors are commemorated. It has also been suggested that as well as paint, they may have been embellished with metalwork and gems. \n\nTypically, Anglo-Saxon crosses are tall and slender compared to Irish examples, many with a nearly square section, and more space given to ornament than figures. However, there are exceptions, like the massive Sandbach Crosses from Mercia, with oblong sections mostly covered by figures on the wider faces, like some Irish crosses. The Gosforth Cross, of 930–950, is a rare example to survive complete; most survivals are only a section of the shaft, and iconoclasts were more concerned to destroy imagery than ornament. Many crosses must have just fallen over after some centuries; headpieces are the least common survivals, and the Easby Cross was repaired with lead in a way described in early documents. Like many monuments from the area of the Danelaw, the Gosforth Cross combines Christian images with those from pagan mythology; apart from a Crucifixion scene, and perhaps scenes of the Last Judgement, all the other images appear to belong to the Norse myth of \"Ragnarök\", the destruction of the gods, a theme detected in other Christian monuments in Britain and Scandinavia, and which could be turned to Christian advantage. \nAnglo-Scandinavians took up Anglo-Saxon sculptural forms with great enthusiasm, and in Yorkshire alone there are fragments from more than 500 monumental sculptures of the 10th and 11th centuries. However quantity was not matched by quality, and even the products of the main city, York, are described by David M. Wilson as \"generally miserable and slipshod\". In the early stages the successive styles of Norse art appear in England, but gradually as political and cultural ties weakened the Anglo-Scandinavians fail to keep up with trends in the homeland. So elements of the Borre style are seen, for example in the \"ring-chain\" interlace on the Gosforth Cross, and then the complex animals of the Jelling style are mostly rather incompetently depicted in England, but traces of the next Mammen style are hard to detect; they are much clearer on the Isle of Man. They are \"perhaps, dimly\" evident in the cross shaft from St Oswald's Priory, Gloucester (illustrated right). In general the traces of these styles in other media are even fainter. A uniquely Anglo-Scandinavian form is the hogback, low grave-marker shaped like a long house with a pitched roof, and sometimes muzzled bears clutching on to each end. Ornament is sometimes a crude pattern of scoring, or scale-like elements presumably representing roofing shingles, but may include interlace and images.\n\nMany fragments, parts of friezes and panels with figure and ornamental carving, have been recovered by archaeology, usually after being reused in rebuilt churches. The largest group of Anglo-Saxon sculpture is from a former abbey at Breedon-on-the-Hill in Mercia, with a number of elements of different dates, including lively narrow decorative strip friezes, many including human figures, and panels with saints and the Virgin. The most intriguing fragments are firstly a group, now at Canterbury Cathedral, from St Mary's Church, Reculver, in Kent, from a large composition with many figure scenes and groups on a curved surface, evidently of high quality, though uncertain date (perhaps early 10th century). A \"Sacrifice of Isaac\" and an \"Ascension\" can be identified, and parts of standing groups of saints, prophets or apostles.\n\nStanding equally apart from other survivals is a late slab from the Old Minster, Winchester which appears to show a section of a large frieze with the story from Germanic mythology of Sigmund, which it has been suggested may have been as long as eighty feet wide, and over four feet high. There are literary references to secular narrative tapestries, a tradition of which the Bayeux Tapestry is the only survival, and this may have been a stone equivalent, celebrating Sigmund, who was believed to be an ancestor of the intermarried royal houses of both England and Denmark, many of whom were buried in what was then the largest church in England.\n\nIt is also clear from literary sources that wall paintings were not uncommon, although not a prestigious form, and fragments of painted plaster have been found, as well as a painted face on a reused stone at Winchester, dating to before 903, and so an important early example of the Winchester figure style. A metaphor in a letter of Alcuin speaks of \"stars, like the painted ceiling of a great man's house\". However, no paintings that are at all complete have survived on either wall or panel.\n\nAs in the rest of the Christian world, while monumental sculpture was slowly re-emerging from its virtual absence in the Early Christian period, small-scale sculpture in metalwork, ivory carving and also bone carving was more important than in later periods, and by no means a \"minor art\". Most Anglo-Saxon ivory was from marine animals, especially the walrus, imported from further north. The extraordinary early Franks Casket is carved from whalebone, which a riddle on it alludes to. It contains a unique mixture of pagan, historical and Christian scenes, evidently attempting to cover a general history of the world, and inscriptions in runes in both Latin and Old English. We have few Anglo-Saxon panels from book-covers compared to those from Carolingian and Ottonian art but a number of figures of very high quality in high relief or fully in the round. In the last phase of Anglo-Saxon art two styles are apparent: one a heavier and formal one drawing from Carolingian and Ottonian sources, and the other the Winchester style, drawing from the Utrecht Psalter and an alternative Carolingian tradition. A very late boxwood casket, now in Cleveland, Ohio, is carved all over with scenes from the \"Life of Christ\" in a provincial but accomplished version of the Winchester style, possibly originating in the West Midlands, and is a unique survival of late Anglo-Saxon fine wood carving.\n\nThe textile arts of embroidery and \"tapestry\", \"Opus anglicanum\", were apparently those for which Anglo-Saxon England was famous throughout Europe by the end of the period, but there are only a handful of survivals, probably partly because of the Anglo-Saxon love of using threads in precious metal, making the work valuable for scrap. \n\nThe Bayeux Tapestry is embroidered in wool on linen and shows the story of the Norman conquest of England; it is surely the best known Anglo-Saxon work of art, and though made after the Conquest was both made in England and firmly in an Anglo-Saxon tradition, points now accepted by French art-historians. Such tapestries adorned both churches and wealthy houses in England, though at 0.5 by 68.38 metres (1.6 by 224.3 ft, and apparently incomplete) the Bayeux Tapestry must be exceptionally large. Only the figures and decoration are embroidered, on a background left plain, which shows the subject very clearly and was necessary to cover very large areas. All kinds of textile arts were produced by women, both nuns and laywomen, but many were probably designed by artists in other media. Byzantine silks were available, though certainly expensive, in Anglo-Saxon England, and a number of pieces have been found used in burials and reliquaries. Probably, as in later vestments, these were often married with locally embroidered borders and panels. If we had more Anglo-Saxon survivals, Byzantine influences would no doubt be apparent.\n\nThe most highly valued embroideries were very different, fully worked in silk and gold of silver thread, and sometimes with gems of various sorts sewn in. These were used for vestments, altar-cloths and other church uses, and similar roles in the homes of the elite. Only a few pieces have survived, including three pieces at Durham placed in the coffin of St Cuthbert, probably in the 930s, after being given by King Athelstan; they were made in Winchester between 909 and 916. These are works \"of breathtaking brilliance and quality\", according to Wilson, including figures of saints, and important early examples of the Winchester style, though the origin of their style is a puzzle; they are closest to the wall-painting fragment from Winchester mentioned above, and an early example of acanthus decoration. \n\nThe earliest group of survivals, now re-arranged and with the precious metal thread mostly picked out, are bands or borders from vestments, incorporating pearls and glass beads, with various types of scroll and animal decoration. These are probably 9th century and now in a church in Maaseik in Belgium. A further style of textile is a vestment illustrated in a miniature portrait of Saint Aethelwold in his Benedictional (see above), which shows the edge of what appears to be a huge acanthus \"flower\" (a term used in several documentary records) covering the wearer's back and shoulders. Other written sources mention other large-scale compositions.\n\nAnglo-Saxon glass was mostly made in simple forms, with vessels always in a single colour, either clear, green or brown, but some fancy claw beakers decorated with large \"claw\" forms have survived, mostly broken; these forms are also found in northern continental Europe. Beads, common in early female burials, and some ecclesiastical window glass was more brightly coloured, and several monastic sites have evidence of glass production. Vessel and bead production probably continued, at a much lower level, from the Romano-British industry, but Bede records that Benedict Biscop brought glass-makers from Gaul for window glass at his monasteries. It is not clear how much Anglo-Saxon glass was imported, but canes of millefiori coloured glass almost certainly were; one of these was in the purse at Sutton Hoo. Otherwise recycling of Roman glass may have avoided the need to import raw glass; evidence for the production of this is slender. Glass is sometimes used as a substitute for garnet in jewellery, as in some pieces from Sutton Hoo. Enamel was used, most famously in the Alfred Jewel, where the image sits under carved rock crystal, both materials are extremely rare in surviving Anglo-Saxon work.\n\nThe unique decorated leather cover of the small Northumbrian St Cuthbert Gospel, the oldest Western bookbinding to survive unaltered, can be dated to 698 or shortly before. It uses incised lines, some colours, and relief decoration built up over cord and gesso or leather pieces. Larger prestige manuscripts had metalwork treasure bindings, several of which are mentioned, but there may well have been much decorated leatherwork for secular satchels, purses, belts and the like, which contemporaries did not bother to mention and which represents a gap in our knowledge for the Early Medieval period throughout Europe.\n\nRelatively little art survives from the rest of the century after 1066, or at least is confidently dated to that period. The art of Normandy was already under heavy Anglo-Saxon influence, but the period was one of massive despoliation of the churches by the small new ruling class, who had almost entirely dispossessed the old Anglo-Saxon elite. Under these circumstances little significant art was produced, but when it was, the style often showed a slow development of Anglo-Saxon styles into a fully Romanesque version. The attribution of many individual objects has jumped around across the boundary of the Norman Conquest, especially for sculpture, including ivories. A number of objects are claimed for their period by both the \"Golden Age of Anglo-Saxon Art\" and the \"English Romanesque art: 1066–1200\" exhibition catalogues, despite both being published in 1984. These include the ivory triangle mount with angels and the \"Sigurd\" stone relief fragment (discussed above), both from Winchester, and the ivory \"pen-case\" and \"Baptism\" (illustrated above), both in the British Museum.\n\nThe energy, love of complicated twining ornament, and refusal to wholly respect a dignified classical decorum that are displayed in both Insular and Winchester school art had already influenced continental style, as discussed above, where it provided an alternative to the heavy monumentality that Ottonian art displays even in small objects. This habit of mind was an essential component of both the Romanesque and Gothic styles, where forms of Anglo-Saxon invention such as the inhabited and historiated initials became more important than they ever had in Anglo-Saxon art itself, and works like the Gloucester Candlestick (c. 1110) show the process in other media.\n\nAnglo-Saxon iconographical innovations include the animal Hellmouth, the ascending Christ shown only as a pair of legs and feet disappearing at the top of the image, the horned Moses, St John the Evangelist standing at the foot of the cross and writing, and God the Father creating the world with a pair of compasses. All of these were later used across Europe. The earliest developed depiction of the \"Last Judgement\" in the West is also found on an Anglo-Saxon ivory, and a late Anglo-Saxon Gospel book may show the earliest example of Mary Magdalene at the foot of the cross in a \"Crucifixion\".\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1681971", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1681971", "title": "Camaïeu", "text": "Camaïeu\n\nCamaïeu (also called \"en camaïeu\") is a technique that employs two or three tints of a single color, other than gray, to create a monochromatic image without regard to local or realistic color. When a picture is monochromatically rendered in gray, it is called grisaille; when in yellow, cirage.\n\nThe term is also applied to monochrome painting in enamels. This technique uses a buildup of white enamel to create highlights and light areas. However, instead of using a black background, as in grisaille, transparent enamel is laid in first, beneath the whites. This technique is frequently used on snuffboxes, watches and medallions.\n\n\"\" can also refer, following the French usage, to chiaroscuro woodcut prints that imitate highlighted drawing on tinted paper. However, the correct term in English for these is \"chiaroscuro woodcuts\".\n\nThis French word once was synonymous with \"cameo\", but its meaning became restricted in the early eighteenth century.\n\nCamaïeu is also a registered trademark of a manufacturer.\n\n"}
{"id": "21089718", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21089718", "title": "Church of Saint Anne, Aldeneik", "text": "Church of Saint Anne, Aldeneik\n\nThe Church of Saint Anne (Dutch: \"Sint-Annakerk\") is a partly Romanesque, partly Gothic church in Aldeneik, Belgium.\n\nOriginally, the church was part of Aldeneik Abbey, a Benedictine nunnery, founded by the holy sisters Harlindis and Relindis on their father Adelard's estate in \"Eike\" (Aldeneik). In the 10th century, emperor Otto I donated the monastery to the Prince-Bishopric of Liège in order to prevent local nobleman from seizing control of the property. Shortly afterwards the nunnery was replaced by a collegiate chapter of (male) canons, who in the 12th century built the Romanesque church which partly survives in the present building. Since the 16th century it has served as a Roman Catholic parish church. Originally dedicated to Saint Mary, later to Mary and Saint Peter, in the 18th century it was dedicated to Saint Anne.\n\nThe present church was partly built in the 12th century and consists of a 3-aisle basilica in Mosan style, without transepts. In the 13th or 14th century the choir was replaced in Gothic style. After the chapter moved to Maaseik in 1571, the church became too big for the small congregation that continued to use it. The aisles were probably demolished shortly afterwards. Part of the westwork was also demolished or destroyed. In the 19th century the westwork was rebuilt, although it was not clear what the original westwork had looked like. The side aisles were rebuilt in the same period.\n\nThe nave is the best preserved part of the original interior of the church, although the wooden ceiling was renewed in the 19th century. The primitive red and ochre murals in the nave date from the 13th century and are among the oldest in Belgium. The choir is lit by two rose windows and five lancet windows.\n"}
{"id": "5871200", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5871200", "title": "Color motion picture film", "text": "Color motion picture film\n\nColor motion picture film refers both to unexposed color photographic film in a format suitable for use in a motion picture camera, and to finished motion picture film, ready for use in a projector, which bears images in color.\n\nThe first color cinematography was by additive color systems such as the one patented by Edward Raymond Turner in 1899 and tested in 1902. A simplified additive system was successfully commercialised in 1909 as Kinemacolor. These early systems used black-and-white film to photograph and project two or more component images through different color filters.\n\nAround 1920, the first practical subtractive color processes were introduced. These also used black-and-white film to photograph multiple color-filtered source images, but the final product was a multicolored print that did not require special projection equipment. Before 1932, when three-strip Technicolor was introduced, commercialized subtractive processes used only two color components and could reproduce only a limited range of color.\n\nIn 1935, Kodachrome was introduced, followed by Agfacolor in 1936. They were intended primarily for amateur home movies and \"slides\". These were the first films of the \"integral tripack\" type, coated with three layers of differently color-sensitive emulsion, which is usually what is meant by the words \"color film\" as commonly used. The few color films still being made in the 2010s are of this type. The first color negative films and corresponding print films were modified versions of these films. They were introduced around 1940 but only came into wide use for commercial motion picture production in the early 1950s. In the US, Eastman Kodak's Eastmancolor was the usual choice, but it was often re-branded with another trade name, such as \"WarnerColor\", by the studio or the film processor.\n\nLater color films were standardized into two distinct processes: Eastman Color Negative 2 chemistry (camera negative stocks, duplicating interpositive and internegative stocks) and Eastman Color Positive 2 chemistry (positive prints for direct projection), usually abbreviated as ECN-2 and ECP-2. Fuji's products are compatible with ECN-2 and ECP-2.\n\nFilm was the dominant form of cinematography until the 2010s, when it was largely replaced by digital cinematography.\n\nThe first motion pictures were photographed using a simple homogeneous photographic emulsion that yielded a black-and-white image—that is, an image in shades of gray, ranging from black to white, corresponding to the luminous intensity of each point on the photographed subject. Light, shade, form and movement were captured, but not color.\n\nWith color motion picture film, information about the color of the light at each image point is also captured. This is done by analyzing the visible spectrum of color into several regions (normally three, commonly referred to by their dominant colors: red, green and blue) and recording each region separately.\n\nCurrent color films do this with three layers of differently color-sensitive photographic emulsion coated on one strip of film base. Early processes used color filters to photograph the color components as completely separate images (e.g., three-strip Technicolor) or adjacent microscopic image fragments (e.g., Dufaycolor) in a one-layer black-and-white emulsion.\n\nEach photographed color component, initially just a colorless record of the luminous intensities in the part of the spectrum that it captured, is processed to produce a transparent dye image in the color complementary to the color of the light that it recorded. The superimposed dye images combine to synthesize the original colors by the subtractive color method. In some early color processes (e.g., Kinemacolor), the component images remained in black-and-white form and were projected through color filters to synthesize the original colors by the additive color method.\n\nThe earliest motion picture stocks were orthochromatic, and recorded blue and green light, but not red. Recording all three spectral regions required making film stock panchromatic to some degree. Since orthochromatic film stock hindered color photography in its beginnings, the first films with color in them used aniline dyes to create artificial color. Hand-colored films appeared in 1895 with Thomas Edison's hand-painted \"Annabelle's Dance\" for his Kinetoscope viewers.\n\nMany early filmmakers from the first ten years of film also used this method to some degree. George Méliès offered hand-painted prints of his own films at an additional cost over the black-and-white versions, including the visual-effects pioneering \"A Trip to the Moon\" (1902). The film had various parts of the film painted frame-by-frame by twenty-one women in Montreuil in a production-line method.\n\nThe first commercially successful stencil color process was introduced in 1905 by Pathé Frères. \"Pathé Color\", renamed Pathéchrome in 1929, became one of the most accurate and reliable stencil coloring systems. It incorporated an original print of a film with sections cut by pantograph in the appropriate areas for up to six colors by a coloring machine with dye-soaked, velvet rollers. After a stencil had been made for the whole film, it was placed into contact with the print to be colored and run at high speed (60 feet per minute) through the coloring (staining) machine. The process was repeated for each set of stencils corresponding to a different color. By 1910, Pathé had over 400 women employed as stencilers in their Vincennes factory. Pathéchrome continued production through the 1930s.\n\nA more common technique emerged in the early 1910s known as film tinting, a process in which either the emulsion or the film base is dyed, giving the image a uniform monochromatic color. This process was popular during the silent era, with specific colors employed for certain narrative effects (red for scenes with fire or firelight, blue for night, etc.).\n\nA complementary process, called toning, replaces the silver particles in the film with metallic salts or mordanted dyes. This creates a color effect in which the dark parts of the image are replaced with a color (e.g., blue and white rather than black and white). Tinting and toning were sometimes applied together.\n\nIn the United States, St. Louis engraver Max Handschiegl and cinematographer Alvin Wyckoff created the Handschiegl Color Process, a dye-transfer equivalent of the stencil process, first used in \"Joan the Woman\" (1917) directed by Cecil B. DeMille, and used in special effects sequences for films such as \"The Phantom of the Opera\" (1925).\n\nEastman Kodak introduced its own system of pre-tinted black-and-white film stocks called Sonochrome in 1929. The Sonochrome line featured films tinted in seventeen different colors including Peachblow, Inferno, Candle Flame, Sunshine, Purple Haze, Firelight, Azure, Nocturne, Verdante, Aquagreen, Caprice, Fleur de Lis, Rose Doree, and the neutral-density Argent, which kept the screen from becoming excessively bright when switching to a black-and-white scene.\n\nTinting and toning continued to be used well into the sound era. In the 1930s and 1940s, some western films were processed in a sepia-toning solution to evoke the feeling of old photographs of the day. Tinting was used as late as 1951 for Sam Newfield's sci-fi film \"Lost Continent\" for the green lost-world sequences. Alfred Hitchcock used a form of hand-coloring for the orange-red gun-blast at the audience in \"Spellbound\" (1945). Kodak's Sonochrome and similar pre-tinted stocks were still in production until the 1970s and were used commonly for custom theatrical trailers and snipes.\n\nIn the last half of the 20th century, Norman McLaren, who was one of the pioneers in animated movies, made several animated films in which he directly hand-painted the images, and in some cases, also the soundtrack, on each frame of the film. This approach was previously employed in the early years of movies, late 19th and early 20th century. One of the precursors in color hand painting frame by frame was the Aragonese Segundo de Chomon, that worked with Melies.\n\nTinting was gradually replaced by natural color techniques.\n\nThe principles on which color photography is based were first proposed by Scottish physicist James Clerk Maxwell in 1855 and presented at the Royal Society in London in 1861. By that time, it was known that light comprises a spectrum of different wavelengths that are perceived as different colors as they are absorbed and reflected by natural objects. Maxwell discovered that all natural colors in this spectrum as perceived by the human eye may be reproduced with additive combinations of three primary colors—red, green, and blue—which, when mixed equally, produce white light.\n\nBetween 1900 and 1935, dozens of natural color systems were introduced, although only a few were successful.\n\nThe first color systems that appeared in motion pictures were additive color systems. Additive color was practical because no special color stock was necessary. Black-and-white film could be processed and used in both filming and projection. The various additive systems entailed the use of color filters on both the movie camera and projector. Additive color adds lights of the primary colors in various proportions to the projected image. Because of the limited amount of space to record images on film, and later because the lack of a camera that could record more than two strips of film at once, most early motion-picture color systems consisted of two colors, often red and green or red and blue.\n\nA pioneering three-color additive system was patented in England by Edward Raymond Turner in 1899. It used a rotating set of red, green and blue filters to photograph the three color components one after the other on three successive frames of panchromatic black-and-white film. The finished film was projected through similar filters to reconstitute the color. In 1902, Turner shot test footage to demonstrate his system, but projecting it proved problematic because of the accurate registration (alignment) of the three separate color elements required for acceptable results. Turner died a year later without having satisfactorily projected the footage. In 2012, curators at the National Media Museum in Bradford, UK, had the original custom-format nitrate film copied to black-and-white 35 mm film, which was then scanned into a digital video format by telecine. Finally, digital image processing was used to align and combine each group of three frames into one color image. The result is that the whole world can now view brief motion pictures from 1902 in full color.\n\nPractical color in the motion picture business began with Kinemacolor, first demonstrated in 1906. This was a two-color system created in England by George Albert Smith, and promoted by film pioneer Charles Urban's The Charles Urban Trading Company in 1908. It was used for a series of films including the documentary \"With Our King and Queen Through India\", depicting the Delhi Durbar (also known as \"The Durbar at Delhi\", 1912), which was filmed in December 1911. The Kinemacolor process consisted of alternating frames of specially sensitized black-and-white film exposed at 32 frames per second through a rotating filter with alternating red and green areas. The printed film was projected through similar alternating red and green filters at the same speed. A perceived range of colors resulted from the blending of the separate red and green alternating images by the viewer's persistence of vision.\n\nWilliam Friese-Greene invented another additive color system called Biocolour, which was developed by his son Claude Friese-Greene after William's death in 1921. William sued George Albert Smith, alleging that the Kinemacolor process infringed on the patents for his Bioschemes, Ltd.; as a result, Smith's patent was revoked in 1914. Both Kinemacolor and Biocolour had problems with \"fringing\" or \"haloing\" of the image, due to the separate red and green images not fully matching up.\n\nBy their nature, these additive systems were very wasteful of light. Absorption by the color filters involved meant that only a minor fraction of the projection light actually reached the screen, resulting in an image that was dimmer than a typical black-and-white image. The larger the screen, the dimmer the picture. For this and other case-by-case reasons, the use of additive processes for theatrical motion pictures had been almost completely abandoned by the early 1940s, though additive color methods are employed by all the color video and computer display systems in common use today.\n\nThe first practical subtractive color process was introduced by Kodak as \"Kodachrome\", a name recycled twenty years later for a very different and far better-known product. Filter-photographed red and blue-green records were printed onto the front and back of one strip of black-and-white duplitized film. After development, the resulting silver images were bleached away and replaced with color dyes, red on one side and cyan on the other. The pairs of superimposed dye images reproduced a useful but limited range of color. Kodak's first narrative film with the process was a short subject entitled \"Concerning $1000\" (1916). Though their duplitized film provided the basis for several commercialized two-color printing processes, the image origination and color-toning methods constituting Kodak's own process were little-used.\n\nThe first truly successful subtractive color process was William van Doren Kelley's Prizma, an early color process that was first introduced at the American Museum of Natural History in New York City on 8 February 1917. Prizma began in 1916 as an additive system similar to Kinemacolor.\n\nHowever, after 1917, Kelley reinvented the process as a subtractive one with several years of short films and travelogues, such as \"Everywhere With Prizma\" (1919) and \"A Prizma Color Visit to Catalina\" (1919) before releasing features such as the documentary \"Bali the Unknown\" (1921), \"The Glorious Adventure\" (1922), and \"Venus of the South Seas\" (1924). A Prizma promotional short filmed for Del Monte Foods titled \"Sunshine Gatherers\" (1921) is available on DVD in Treasures 5 The West 1898–1938 by the National Film Preservation Foundation.\n\nThe invention of Prizma led to a series of similarly printed color processes. This bipack color system used two strips of film running through the camera, one recording red, and one recording blue-green light. With the black-and-white negatives being printed onto duplitized film, the color images were then toned red and blue, effectively creating a subtractive color print.\n\nLeon Forrest Douglass (1869–1940), a founder of Victor Records, developed a system he called Naturalcolor, and first showed a short test film made in the process on 15 May 1917 at his home in San Rafael, California. The only feature film known to have been made in this process, \"Cupid Angling\" (1918) — starring Ruth Roland and with cameo appearances by Mary Pickford and Douglas Fairbanks — was filmed in the Lake Lagunitas area of Marin County, California.\n\nAfter experimenting with additive systems (including a camera with two apertures, one with a red filter, one with a green filter) from 1915 to 1921, Dr. Herbert Kalmus, Dr. Daniel Comstock, and mechanic W. Burton Wescott developed a subtractive color system for Technicolor. The system used a beam splitter in a specially modified camera to send red and green light to adjacent frames of one strip of black-and-white film. From this negative, skip-printing was used to print each color's frames contiguously onto film stock with half the normal base thickness. The two prints were chemically toned to roughly complementary hues of red and green, then cemented together, back to back, into a single strip of film. The first film to use this process was \"The Toll of the Sea\" (1922) starring Anna May Wong. Perhaps the most ambitious film to use it was \"The Black Pirate\" (1926), starring and produced by Douglas Fairbanks.\n\nThe process was later refined through the incorporation of dye imbibition, which allowed for the transferring of dyes from both color matrices into a single print, avoiding several problems that had become evident with the cemented prints and allowing multiple prints to be created from a single pair of matrices.\n\nTechnicolor's system was very popular for a number of years, but it was a very expensive process: shooting cost three times that of black-and-white photography and printing costs were no cheaper. By 1932, color photography in general had nearly been abandoned by major studios, until Technicolor developed a new advancement to record all three primary colors. Utilizing a special dichroic beam splitter equipped with two 45-degree prisms in the form of a cube, light from the lens was deflected by the prisms and split into two paths to expose each one of three black-and-white negatives (one each to record the densities for red, green, and blue).\n\nThe three negatives were then printed to gelatin matrices, which also completely bleached the image, washing out the silver and leaving only the gelatin record of the image. A receiver print, consisting of a 50% density print of the black-and-white negative for the green record strip, and including the soundtrack, was struck and treated with dye mordants to aid in the imbibition process (this \"black\" layer was discontinued in the early 1940s). The matrices for each strip were coated with their complementary dye (yellow, cyan, or magenta), and then each successively brought into high-pressure contact with the receiver, which imbibed and held the dyes, which collectively rendered a wider spectrum of color than previous technologies. The first animation film with the three-color (also called three-strip) system was Walt Disney's \"Flowers and Trees\" (1932), the first short live-action film was \"La Cucaracha\" (1934), and the first feature was \"Becky Sharp\" (1935).\n\nGasparcolor, a single-strip 3-color system, was developed in 1933 by the Hungarian chemist Dr. Bela Gaspar.\n\nThe real push for color films and the nearly immediate changeover from black-and-white production to nearly all color film were pushed forward by the prevalence of television in the early 1950s. In 1947, only 12 percent of American films were made in color. By 1954, that number rose to over 50 percent. The rise in color films was also aided by the breakup of Technicolor's near monopoly on the medium.\n\nIn 1947, the United States Justice Department filed an antitrust suit against Technicolor for monopolization of color cinematography (even though rival processes such as Cinecolor and Trucolor were in general use). In 1950, a federal court ordered Technicolor to allot a number of its three-strip cameras for use by independent studios and filmmakers. Although this certainly affected Technicolor, its real undoing was the invention of Eastmancolor that same year.\n\nIn the field of motion pictures, the many-layered type of color film normally called an \"integral tripack\" in broader contexts has long been known by the less tongue-twisting term \"monopack\". For many years, Monopack (capitalized) was a proprietary product of Technicolor Corp, whereas monopack (not capitalized) generically referred to any of several single-strip color film products, certainly including various Eastman Kodak products. It appears that Technicolor made no attempt to register Monopack as a trademark with the US Patent and Trademark Office, although it certainly asserted that term as if it were a registered trademark, and it had the force of a legal agreement between it and Eastman Kodak to back up that assertion. It was a solely-sourced product, too, as Eastman Kodak was legally prevented from marketing any color motion picture film products wider than 16mm, 35mm specifically, until the expiration of the so-called \"Monopack Agreement\" in 1950. This, notwithstanding the facts that Technicolor never had the capability to manufacture sensitized motion picture films of any kind, nor single-strip color films based upon its so-called \"Troland Patent\" (which patent Technicolor maintained covered all monopack-type films in general, but monopack-type motion picture films in particular, and which Eastman Kodak elected not to contest as Technicolor was then one of its largest customers, if not its largest customer). After 1950, Eastman Kodak was free to make and market color films of any kind, particularly including monopack color motion picture films in 65/70mm, 35mm, 16mm and 8mm. The \"Monopack Agreement\" had no effect on color still films.\n\nMonopack color films are based on the subtractive color system, which filters colors from white light by using superimposed cyan, magenta and yellow dye images. Those images are created from records of the amounts of red, green and blue light present at each point of the image formed by the camera lens. A subtractive primary color (cyan, magenta, yellow) is what remains when one of the additive primary colors (red, green, blue) has been removed from the spectrum. Eastman Kodak's monopack color films incorporated three separate layers of differently color sensitive emulsion into one strip of film. Each layer recorded one of the additive primaries and was processed to produce a dye image in the complementary subtractive primary.\n\nKodachrome was the first commercially successful application of monopack multilayer film, introduced in 1935. For professional motion picture photography, Kodachrome Commercial, on a 35mm BH-perforated base, was available exclusively from Technicolor, as its so-called \"Technicolor Monopack\" product. Similarly, for sub-professional motion picture photography, Kodachrome Commercial, on a 16mm base, was available exclusively from Eastman Kodak. In both cases, Eastman Kodak was the sole manufacturer and the sole processor. In the 35mm case, Technicolor dye-transfer printing was a \"tie-in\" product. In the 16mm case, there were Eastman Kodak duplicating and printing stocks and associated chemistry, not the same as a \"tie-in\" product. In exceptional cases, Technicolor offered 16mm dye-transfer printing, but this necessitated the exceptionally wasteful process of printing on a 35mm base, only thereafter to be re-perforated and re-slit to 16mm, thereby discarding slightly more than one-half of the end product.\n\nA late modification to the \"Monopack Agreement\", the \"Imbibition Agreement\", finally allowed Technicolor to economically manufacture 16mm dye-transfer prints as so-called \"double-rank\" 35/32mm prints (two 16mm prints on a 35mm base that was originally perforated at the 16mm specification for both halves, and was later re-slit into two 16mm wide prints without the need for re-perforation). This modification also facilitated the early experiments by Eastman Kodak with its negative-positive monopack film, which eventually became Eastmancolor. Essentially, the \"Imbibition Agreement\" lifted a portion of the \"Monopack Agreement's\" restrictions on Technicolor (which prevented it from making motion picture products less than 35mm wide) and somewhat related restrictions on Eastman Kodak (which prevented it from experimenting and developing monopack products greater than 16mm wide).\n\nEastmancolor, introduced in 1950, was Kodak's first economical, single-strip 35 mm negative-positive process incorporated into one strip of film. This rendered Three-Strip color photography relatively obsolete, even though, for the first few years of Eastmancolor, Technicolor continued to offer Three-Strip origination combined with dye-transfer printing (150 titles produced in 1953, 100 titles produced in 1954 and 50 titles produced in 1955, the very last year for Three-Strip). The first commercial feature film to use Eastmancolor was the documentary \"Royal Journey\", released in December 1951. Hollywood studios waited until an improved version of Eastmancolor negative came out in 1952 before using it; \"This is Cinerama\" was an early film which employed three separate and interlocked strips of Eastmancolor negative. \"This is Cinerama\" was initially printed on Eastmancolor positive, but its significant success eventually resulted in it being reprinted by Technicolor, using dye-transfer.\n\nBy 1953, and especially with the introduction of anamorphic wide screen CinemaScope, Eastmancolor became a marketing imperative as CinemaScope was incompatible with Technicolor's Three-Strip camera and lenses. Indeed, Technicolor Corp became one of the best, if not the best, processor of Eastmancolor negative, especially for so-called \"wide gauge\" negatives (5-perf 65mm, 6-perf 35mm), yet it far preferred its own 35mm dye-transfer printing process for Eastmancolor-originated films with a print run that exceeded 500 prints, not withstanding the significant \"loss of register\" that occurred in such prints that were expanded by CinemaScope's 2X horizontal factor, and, to a lesser extent, with so-called \"flat wide screen\" (variously 1.66:1 or 1.85:1, but spherical and not anamorphic). This nearly fatal flaw was not corrected until 1955 and caused numerous features initially printed by Technicolor to be scrapped and reprinted by DeLuxe Labs. (These features are often billed as \"Color by Technicolor-DeLuxe\".) Indeed, some Eastmancolor-originated films billed as \"Color by Technicolor\" were never actually printed using the dye-transfer process, due in part to the throughput limitations of Technicolor's dye-transfer printing process, and competitor DeLuxe's superior throughput. Incredibly, DeLuxe once had a license to install a Technicolor-type dye-transfer printing line, but as the \"loss of register\" problems became apparent in Fox's CinemaScope features that were printed by Technicolor, after Fox had become an all-CinemaScope producer, Fox-owned DeLuxe Labs abandoned its plans for dye-transfer printing and became, and remained, an all-Eastmancolor shop, as Technicolor itself later became.\n\nTechnicolor continued to offer its proprietary imbibition dye-transfer printing process for projection prints until 1975, and even briefly revived it in 1998. As an archival format, Technicolor prints are one of the most stable color print processes yet created, and prints properly cared for are estimated to retain their color for centuries. With the introduction of Eastmancolor low-fade positive print (LPP) films, properly stored (at 45 °F or 7 °C and 25 percent relative humidity) monopack color film is expected to last, with no fading, a comparative amount of time. Improperly stored monopack color film from before 1983 can incur a 30 percent image loss in as little as 25 years.\n\nA color film is made up of many different layers that work together to create the color image. Color negative films provide three main color layers: the blue record, green record, and red record; each made up of two separate layers containing silver halide crystals and dye-couplers. A cross-sectional representation of a piece of developed color negative film is shown in the figure at the right. Each layer of the film is so thin that the composite of all layers, in addition to the triacetate base and antihalation backing, is less than 0.0003\" (8 µm) thick.\n\nThe three color records are stacked as shown at right, with a UV filter on top to keep the non-visible ultraviolet radiation from exposing the silver-halide crystals, which are naturally sensitive to UV light. Next are the fast and slow blue-sensitive layers, which, when developed, form the latent image. When the exposed silver-halide crystal is developed, it is coupled with a dye grain of its complementary color. This forms a dye \"cloud\" (like a drop of water on a paper towel) and is limited in its growth by development-inhibitor-releasing (DIR) couplers, which also serve to refine the sharpness of the processed image by limiting the size of the dye clouds. The dye clouds formed in the blue layer are actually yellow (the opposite or complementary color to blue). There are two layers to each color; a \"fast\" and a \"slow.\" The fast layer features larger grains that are more sensitive to light than the slow layer, which has finer grain and is less sensitive to light. Silver-halide crystals are naturally sensitive to blue light, so the blue layers are on the top of the film and they are followed immediately by a yellow filter, which stops any more blue light from passing through to the green and red layers and biasing those crystals with extra blue exposure. Next are the red-sensitive record (which forms cyan dyes when developed); and, at the bottom, the green-sensitive record, which forms magenta dyes when developed. Each color is separated by a gelatin layer that prevents silver development in one record from causing unwanted dye formation in another. On the back of the film base is an anti-halation layer that absorbs light which would otherwise be weakly reflected back through the film by that surface and create halos of light around bright features in the image. In color film, this backing is \"rem-jet\", a black-pigmented, non-gelatin layer which is removed in the developing process.\n\nEastman Kodak manufactures film in 54-inch (1,372 mm) wide rolls. These rolls are then slit into various sizes (70 mm, 65 mm, 35 mm, 16 mm) as needed.\n\nMotion picture film, primarily because of the rem-jet backing, requires different processing than standard C-41 process color film. The process necessary is ECN-2, which has an initial step using an alkaline bath to remove the backing layer. There are also minor differences in the remainder of the process. If motion picture negative is run through a standard C-41 color film developer bath, the rem-jet backing partially dissolves and destroys the integrity of the developer and, potentially, ruins the film.\n\nIn the late 1980s, Kodak introduced the T-Grain emulsion, a technological advancement in the shape and make-up of silver halide grains in their films. T-Grain is a tabular silver halide grain that allows for greater overall surface area, resulting in greater light sensitivity with a relatively small grain and a more uniform shape that results in a less overall graininess to the film. This made for sharper and more sensitive films. The T-Grain technology was first employed in Kodak's EXR line of motion picture color negative stocks. This was further refined in 1996 with the Vision line of emulsions, followed by Vision2 in the early 2000s and Vision3 in 2007.\n\nFuji films also integrate tabular grains in their SUFG (Super Unified Fine Grain) films. In their case, the SUFG grain is not only tabular, it is hexagonal and consistent in shape throughout the emulsion layers. Like the T-grain, it has a larger surface area in a smaller grain (about one-third the size of traditional grain) for the same light sensitivity. In 2005, Fuji unveiled their Eterna 500T stock, the first in a new line of advanced emulsions, with Super Nano-structure Σ Grain Technology.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "33602955", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33602955", "title": "Colorado antiquarian book seminar", "text": "Colorado antiquarian book seminar\n\nThe Colorado Antiquarian Book Seminar, founded in the late 1970s, provides training for dealers in out-of-print, used, and antiquarian books.\n\nThe Seminar was the brainchild of Margaret Knox Goggin, on the faculty (and formerly dean) of the School of Librarianship at the University of Denver. The first session, held at the University in December 1977, was primarily intended for librarians who wished to improve their skills in buying used, out-of-print, and rare books. Twenty-five registrants heard lectures by Goggin, Jacob L. Chernofsky (Editor and Publisher of AB Bookman's Weekly), Lee Ash, and Harry U. Mooney (Collection Development Coordinator, Denver Public Library). The success of the venture encouraged Goggin and Chernofsky to offer an annual seminar beginning in 1979 on the out-of-print and antiquarian book market, \"designed to help librarians throughout the country with a working knowledge of the out-of-print and antiquarian book trade and the role of that market in acquisitions procedures and collection development.\" Nearly 50 students attended the 1979 Seminar, which was oriented toward the needs of librarians; nevertheless, \"a half dozen booksellers also registered — pointing up the need for such a course for booksellers as well as librarians.” Faculty members at the 1979 Seminar included the autograph dealer Mary A. Benjamin, Franklin Gilliam (Brick Row Book Shop, San Francisco), Edwin V. Glaser (a dealer specializing in rare medical books, based in Sausalito, CA), Katharine Kyes Leab (Editor of \"American Book Prices Current\"), Murray S. Martin (Penn State), Bernard M. Rosenthal (a San Francisco-based dealer specializing in early printed books), and Florian Shasky (Stanford University Libraries).\n\nThe Seminar became an annual event held in August at the University of Denver under the co-directorship of Goggin and Chernofsky, its title settling down as \"A Workshop-Seminar on the Out-of-Print and Antiquarian Book Market for Booksellers and Librarians,\" designed \"to meet the needs of acquisitions librarians, those responsible for developing collections, rare book librarians, as well as booksellers and prospective booksellers.\". The Seminar lecturers varied somewhat from year to year, but a core faculty emerged that included, besides Jake Chernofsky and Margaret Goggin, Michael Ginsberg (an Americana dealer based in Sharon, MA), Ed Glaser, Robert W. Topp (Hermitage Book Shop, Denver), and Jake Zeitlin (Zeitlin & Ver Brugge, Los Angeles). Other stalwart faculty members were to include Mary Francis Ciletti, Lois Harvey, Jennifer Larson, Jean Parmer, and Richard Weatherford. Though there were always a few librarians in attendance, by the mid-1980s, the typical Seminar student was a used, out-of-print, or rare bookseller (or someone who wished to become one).\n\nThe Seminar was soon attracting over 100 registrants annually. It ran extra sessions at the University of Florida in March 1988 and March 1994, in addition to the annual sessions in Colorado each August. Its success was chronicled in a series of annual articles by \"AB Bookman's Weekly\"'s Associate Editor, Rebecca Myers, often titled with some variant of \"Book is a four-letter word.\" Beginning in 1985, a keynote speaker began the proceedings on Sunday night. Notable keynoters included John Y. Cole (1985; Center for the Book, Library of Congress); Marcus A. McCorison (1987; Director and Librarian, American Antiquarian Society); Robert Rosenthal (1989; head of special collections, University of Chicago); and Louis Weinstein (1999; Heritage Book Shop, Los Angeles). By the late 1980s, the Seminar had established a tradition of asking a different specialist dealer to join the faculty each year: Diane deBlois in 1988 (aGatherin', Wynanskill, NY; printed ephemera); Patterson Smith in 1990 (Montclair, NJ; true crime); John Crichton in 1991 (Brick Row Book Shop, San Francisco: literature); Priscilla Juvelis in 1996 (Boston; artists' books); and so on.\n\nMargaret Knox Goggin stepped down as co-director of the Seminar after the 1994 Gainesville and Colorado Seminars, and the Denver connection weakened. The 1993 Seminar was hosted by the Colorado School of Mines in Golden; in 1995 the Seminar moved to Colorado College, in Colorado Springs, Colorado (where it has been, ever since). Chernofsky continued as director, with Jennifer Larson as unnamed co-director; but in the later 1990s his magazine, AB Bookman's Weekly, was faltering, unable to cope with the rise of internet bookselling; \"AB\" ceased publication in 1999, and Chernofsky sold the Seminar to faculty members Michael Ginsberg, Edwin Glaser, Lois Harvey, and Jennifer Larson (later, Daniel De Simone and Robert Rulon-Miller, Jr. jointly purchased a 1/5 share of the Seminar from the other shareholders). The Seminar was slow to refocus its presentations on what students most wanted to learn: more about researching and pricing used general-interest books; more about selling on eBay and the internet; less about older and more valuable antiquarian books. Attendance declined; by 2004, the average number of participants had fallen to well under 50.\n\nThe Seminar reinvigorated itself in the mid-2000s, with faculty additions Terry Belanger, Thomas E. Congalton (Between the Covers Rare Books, Gloucester City, NJ), Daniel De Simone (Rosenwald Curator, Library of Congress), internet specialist Dan Gregory (Between the Covers), Kevin Royal Johnson (Royal Books, Baltimore), and Robert Rulon-Miller, Jr. (Rulon-Miller Books, St Paul, MN) joining Seminar stalwarts Ginsberg and Glaser. Participant response was enthusiastic, and attendance began to climb. The Seminar's title was given its present form: Colorado Antiquarian Book Seminar (CABS) and a new website, and the proprietors relinquished their shares to a tax-exempt, not-for-profit corporation called the Antiquarian Book School Foundation. The current director of CABS is Rob Rulon-Miller and the current local coordinator at Colorado College is Kathy Lindeman; the chairman of the Foundation's board is Rob Rulon-Miller. The ongoing faculty comprises bookseller Lorne W. Bair (Winchester, VA); Terry Belanger (Charlottesville, VA); Brian Cassidy (Silver Spring, MD), Maria Lin (Saint Paul, MN); Katherine Reagan (Curator ofRare Books and Manuscripts, Cornell University, Ithaca, NY), Rob Rulon-Miller (Saint Paul, MN) and Garrett Scott (Ann Arbor, MI).\n\nSince 1980, nearly 3,000 persons have attended the Seminar, which throughout its existence has had the strong support of the Antiquarian Booksellers' Association of America (ABAA): CABS board and faculty members over the years have included ABAA Presidents Thomas E. Congalton, Edwin V. Glaser, Michael Ginsberg, Bernard M. Rosenthal, Robert Rulon-Miller Jr, John Thomson, and others. In recent years, scholarships to CABS have been provided not only by ABAA (Woodburn Scholarships) but also by AbeBooks, Biblio.com, Bibliopolis, IOBA Independent Online Booksellers Association, and the Rocky Mountain Antiquarian Booksellers Association (RMABA) as well as by the faculty themselves. Most of the current attendees are booksellers (or prospective booksellers), but librarians and book collectors sometimes attend, as well.\n\nNow in its 40th year, the Colorado Antiquarian Book Seminar is the oldest, continuously operated educational institution in the world for the antiquarian book trade, predating Rare Book School in Virginia, which was partially modeled on the Colorado Seminar, by nearly five years. Of the nearly 3,000 or so graduates of the Seminar, a remarkably high percentage of them are still involved in books, either as booksellers, librarians, and/or collectors.\n"}
{"id": "1544412", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1544412", "title": "Conspiracy fiction", "text": "Conspiracy fiction\n\nThe conspiracy thriller (or paranoid thriller) is a subgenre of thriller fiction. The protagonists of conspiracy thrillers are often journalists or amateur investigators who find themselves (often inadvertently) pulling on a small thread which unravels a vast conspiracy that ultimately goes \"all the way to the top.\" The complexities of historical fact are recast as a morality play in which bad people cause bad events, and good people identify and defeat them. Conspiracies are often played out as \"man-in-peril\" (or \"woman-in-peril\") stories, or yield quest narratives similar to those found in whodunnits and detective stories. \n\nA common theme in such works is that characters uncovering the conspiracy encounter difficulty ascertaining the truth amid the deceptions: rumors, lies, propaganda, and counter-propaganda build upon one another until what is conspiracy and what is coincidence become entangled. Many conspiracy fiction works also include the theme of secret history.\n\nJohn Buchan's 1915 novel \"The Thirty-Nine Steps\" weaves elements of conspiracy and man-on-the-run archetypes. Dashiell Hammett's 1924 short story \"Nightmare Town\" is conspiracy fiction on a small scale, depicting an Arizona town that exists as part of an insurance-fraud scheme, and a detective slowly uncovering the truth. Graham Greene's 1943 novel \"Ministry of Fear\" (brought to the big screen by Fritz Lang in 1944) combines all the ingredients of paranoia and conspiracy familiar to aficionados of the 1970s thrillers, with additional urgency and depth added by its wartime backdrop. Greene himself credited Michael Innes as the inspiration for his \"entertainment\". \n\nConspiracy fiction in the US reached its zenith in the 1960s and 1970s in the wake of a number of high-profile scandals and controversies, most notably the Vietnam War, the assassinations of John F. Kennedy, Robert Kennedy, and Martin Luther King Jr., as well as the Watergate scandal and the subsequent resignation of Richard Nixon from the presidency. Several fictional works explored the clandestine machinations and conspiracies beneath the orderly fabric of political life. American novelist Richard Condon wrote a number of conspiracy thrillers, including the seminal \"The Manchurian Candidate\" (1959), and \"Winter Kills\", which was made into a film by William Richert in 1979. \"Illuminatus!\" (1969–1971), a trilogy by Robert Shea and Robert Anton Wilson, is regarded by many as the definitive work of 20th-century conspiracy fiction. Set in the late '60s, it is a psychedelic tale which fuses mystery, science fiction, horror, and comedy in its exhibition (and mourning, and mocking) of one of the more paranoid periods of recent history. Thomas Pynchon's \"The Crying of Lot 49\" (1966) includes a secretive conflict between cartels dating back to the Middle Ages. \"Gravity's Rainbow\" also draws heavily on conspiracy theory in describing the motives and operations of the Phoebus cartel as well as the development of ballistic missiles during World War II. \"Inherent Vice\" also involves an intentionally ambiguous conspiracy involving a group known as the Golden Fang. \n\nJohn Macgregor's 1986 novel \"Propinquity\" describes an attempt by a modern couple to revive the frozen body of a gnostic medieval Queen, buried deep under Westminster Abbey. Their attempt to expose the feminine aspect of Christianity's origins results in fierce Church opposition and, eventually, an international manhunt. Umberto Eco's \"Foucault's Pendulum\" (1988) features a story in which the staff of a publishing firm, intending to create a series of popular occult books, invent their own occult conspiracy, over which they lose control as it begins to supplant the truth. The popular 2003 novel \"The Da Vinci Code\" by Dan Brown draws on conspiracy theories involving the Roman Catholic Church, Opus Dei and the Priory of Sion. Other contemporary authors who have used elements of conspiracy theory in their work include Margaret Atwood, William S. Burroughs, Don DeLillo, James Ellroy, Joseph Heller, Robert Ludlum, David Morrell and James Clancy Phelan.\n\nOne of the first science fiction novels to deal with a full-blown conspiracy theory was Eric Frank Russell's \"Dreadful Sanctuary\" (1948). This deals with a number of sabotaged space missions and the apparent discovery that Earth is being quarantined by aliens from other planets of the Solar System. However, as the novel progresses it emerges that this view is a paranoid delusion perpetuated by a small but powerful secret society. Philip K. Dick wrote a large number of short stories where vast conspiracies were employed (usually by an oppressive government or other hostile powers) to keep common people under control or enforce a given agenda. Other popular science fiction writers whose work features conspiracy theories include William Gibson, John Twelve Hawks, and Neal Stephenson.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "45030479", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45030479", "title": "Contemporary Artists' Books Conference", "text": "Contemporary Artists' Books Conference\n\nThe Contemporary Artists' Books Conference (CABC) was started in 2008 by the New York Chapter of the Art Libraries Society of North America (ARLIS/NY) in collaboration with the NY Art Book Fair. It has been held annually during the Fair as part of its special programming.\n\nIn 2006, Printed Matter, Inc, under the direction of its former Director and President AA Bronson, launched the NY Art Book Fair (NYABF). The Contemporary Artists' Books Conference (CABC) was started two years later by the New York Chapter of the Art Libraries Society of North America in collaboration with the NYABF. In subsequent years, the conference was held directly within the Fair as part of the Fair's public programming.\n\nThe CABC was initially organized by a volunteer committee of art librarians from the New York area, including James Mitchell, formerly of the Metropolitan Museum of Art; Jennifer Tobias, Milan Hughston and David Senior of the Museum of Modern Art Library; Deirdre Donohue and Matthew Carson of the International Center of Photography; Ryan Haley of the New York Public Library; Deirdre Lawrence of the Brooklyn Museum Library; and Tony White of the Maryland Institute College of Art. Stephen J. Bury of the Frick Art Reference Library joined the committee in 2010.\n\nThe CABC was also included in Printed Matter's LA Art Book Fair beginning in 2014.\n\nAlthough the programming for the conference varies from year to year, all conferences are united by their focus on emerging practices and issues within art-book culture. In addition to organizing the annual conference, CABC's planning committee commissions a new artists’ book as part of its program. Previously commissioned artists include James Hoff, Eve Fowler, Dexter Sinister, David Horvitz, Triin Tamm and Emily Roysdon, and the “assembled magazine” \"Adventures,\" produced by Aaron Flint Jamison.\n"}
{"id": "420026", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=420026", "title": "Creative limitation", "text": "Creative limitation\n\nCreative limitation is the concept of how purposely limiting oneself can actually drive creativity. At a 2013 TED conference, artist Phil Hansen made several remarks concerning the value of limitations, among them that \"We need to first be limited in order to become limitless,” and “If you treat the problems as possibilities, life will start to dance with you in the most amazing ways.”\n\nCreative limitation can also be thought of as a way to achieve a novel effect or goal that is not otherwise possible using conventional, readily accessible, methods. Igor Stravinsky used what he called creative limitation with time signatures, by restricting himself from using any, in his composition 'The Rite of Spring' as well as in alternate aspects of his other musical works.\n\n"}
{"id": "47688354", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47688354", "title": "Deployment management", "text": "Deployment management\n\nDeployment is the realisation of an application, or execution of a plan, idea, model, design, specification, standard, algorithm, or policy.\n\nIn computer science, a deployment is a realisation of a technical specification or algorithm as a program, software component, or other computer system through computer programming and deployment. Many implementations may exist for a given specification or standard. For example, web browsers contain implementations of World Wide Web Consortium-recommended specifications, and software development tools contain deployment of programming languages.\n\nA special case occurs in object-oriented programming, when a concrete class deploys an interface; in this case the concrete class is an \"deployment\" of the interface and it includes methods which are \"deployments\" of those methods specified by the interface.\n\nIn the IT Industry, deployment refers to post-sales process of guiding a client from purchase to use of the software or hardware that was purchased. This includes requirements analysis, scope analysis, customisations, systems integrations, user policies, user training and delivery. These steps are often overseen by a project manager using project management methodologies. Software Deployment involves several professionals that are relatively new to the knowledge based economy such as business analysts, technical analysts, solutions architects, and project managers.\n\nTo deploy a system successfully, a large number of inter-related tasks need to be carried out in an appropriate sequence. Utilising a well-proven implementation methodology and enlisting professional advice can help but often it is the number of tasks, poor planning and inadequate resourcing that causes problems with an deployment project, rather than any of the tasks being particularly difficult. Similarly with the cultural issues it is often the lack of adequate consultation and two-way communication that inhibits achievement of the desired results.\n\nIn political science, deployment refers to the carrying out of public policy. Legislatures pass laws that are then carried out by public servants working in bureaucratic agencies. This process consists of rule-making, rule-administration and rule-adjudication. Factors impacting deployment include the legislative intent, the administrative capacity of the deploying bureaucracy, interest group activity and opposition, and executive support.\n\n\"Deployment is defined as a specified set of activities designed to put into practice an activity or program of known dimensions. According to this definition, deployment processes are purposeful and are described in sufficient detail such that independent observers can detect the presence and strength of the \"specific set of activities\" related to implementation. In addition, the activity or program being deployed is described in sufficient detail so that independent observers can detect its presence and strength.\" \n\nIn water and natural resources, deployment refers to the actualisation of best management practices with the ultimate goals of conserving natural resources and improving the quality of water bodies.\n\nTypes:\n\nSystem deployment generally benefits from high levels of user involvement and management support. User participation in the design and operation of information systems has several positive results. First, if users are heavily involved in systems design, they move opportunities to mold the system according to their priorities and business requirements, and more opportunities to control the outcome. Second, they are more likely to react positively to the change process. Incorporating user knowledge and expertise leads to better solutions.\n\nThe relationship between users and information systems specialists has traditionally been a problem area for information systems deployment efforts. Users and information systems specialists tend to have different backgrounds, interests, and priorities. This is referred to as the user-designer communications gap. These differences lead to divergent organizational loyalties, approaches to problem solving, and vocabularies. Examples of these differences or concerns are below:\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "51502285", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51502285", "title": "Descriptive poetics", "text": "Descriptive poetics\n\nDescriptive poetics is an analytic approach within literary studies. While the concept of \"poetics\" goes back to Aristotle, the term descriptive poetics refers to an approach which, according to Brian McHale, represents a middle ground between theoretically oriented approaches and analyses of individual works of literature.\n\nTo McHale, the purpose of descriptive poetics is to give exhaustive accounts of different kinds of objects which can be a group of texts, the entire production of a single author, a particular genre, the style of a period in literary history or even specific styles of literature. McHale argues that the approach is not defined by what it examines but by the level of \"generalization\" achieved in this form of literary studies. The approach was given a formalized forum in the journal \"PTL: A Journal of Descriptive Poetics and Theory of Literature\" which only had a short run before it was succeeded by the more successful journal \"Poetics Today\". According to literary scholar Uni Margolin, descriptive poetics was a rather prominent form of scholarship in the first half of the 20th century, especially in Germany, but has since \"been neglected since 1968 because of its low level of theoretisation\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "50220023", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50220023", "title": "Eberjagd um 1500", "text": "Eberjagd um 1500\n\nEberjagd um 1500 is an outdoor sculpture by Karl Begas, installed at Fasanerieallee in Tiergarten, Berlin, Germany.\n\n"}
{"id": "290921", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=290921", "title": "Epiphanius of Salamis", "text": "Epiphanius of Salamis\n\nEpiphanius of Salamis (; c. 310–320 – 403) was bishop of Salamis, Cyprus, at the end of the 4th century. He is considered a saint and a Church Father by both the Orthodox and Roman Catholic Churches. He gained a reputation as a strong defender of orthodoxy. He is best known for composing the \"Panarion\", a very large compendium of the heresies up to his own time, full of quotations that are often the only surviving fragments of suppressed texts. According to Ernst Kitzinger, he \"seems to have been the first cleric to have taken up the matter of Christian religious images as a major issue\", and there has been much controversy over how many of the quotations attributed to him by the Byzantine Iconoclasts were actually by him. Regardless of this he was clearly strongly against some contemporary uses of images in the church.\n\nEpiphanius was born into a Christian Greek family in the small settlement of Besanduk, near Eleutheropolis (modern-day Beit Guvrin, Israel), and lived as a monk in Egypt, where he was educated and came into contact with Valentinian groups. He returned to Palestine around 333, when he was still a young man, and he founded a monastery at Ad nearby, which is often mentioned in the polemics of Jerome with Rufinus and John, Bishop of Jerusalem. He was ordained a priest, and lived and studied as superior of the monastery in Ad that he founded for thirty years and gained much skill and knowledge in that position. In that position he gained the ability to speak in several tongues, including Hebrew, Syriac, Egyptian, Greek, and Latin, and was called by Jerome on that account \"Pentaglossis\" (\"Five tongued\").\n\nHis reputation for learning prompted his nomination and consecration as Bishop of Salamis, Cyprus, in 365 or 367, a post which he held until his death. He was also the Metropolitan of the Church of Cyprus. He served as bishop for nearly forty years, as well as travelled widely to combat unorthodox beliefs. He was present at a synod in Antioch (376) where the Trinitarian questions were debated against the heresy of Apollinarianism. He upheld the position of Bishop Paulinus, who had the support of Rome, over that of Meletius of Antioch, who was supported by the Eastern Churches. In 382 he was present at the Council of Rome, again upholding the cause of Paulinus.\n\nDuring a visit to Palestine in 394 or 395, while preaching in Jerusalem, he attacked Origen's followers and urged the Bishop of Jerusalem, John II, to condemn his writings. He urged John to be careful of the \"offence\" of images in the churches. He noted that when travelling in Palestine he went into a church to pray and saw a curtain with an image of Christ or a saint which he tore down. He told Bishop John that such images were \"opposed . . . to our religion\" (see below). This event sowed the seeds of conflict which erupted in the dispute between Rufinus and John against Jerome and Epiphanius. Epiphanius fuelled this conflict by ordaining a priest for Jerome's monastery at Bethlehem, thus trespassing on John's jurisdiction. This dispute continued during the 390s, in particular in the literary works by Rufinus and Jerome attacking one another.\n\nIn 399, the dispute took on another dimension, when the Bishop of Alexandria, Theophilus, who had initially supported John, changed his views and started persecuting Origenist monks in Egypt. As a result of this persecution, four of these monks, the so-called Tall Brothers, fled to Palestine, and then travelled to Constantinople, seeking support and spreading the controversy. John Chrysostom, Bishop of Constantinople, gave the monks shelter. Bishop Theophilus of Alexandria saw his chance to use this event to bring down his enemy Chrysostom: in 402 he summoned a council in Constantinople, and invited those supportive of his anti-Origenist views. Epiphanius, by this time nearly 80, was one of those summoned, and began the journey to Constantinople. However, when he realised he was being used as a tool by Theophilus against Chrysostom, who had given refuge to the monks persecuted by Theophilus and who were appealing to the emperor, Epiphanius started back to Salamis, only to die on the way home in 403.\n\nLetter LI in Jerome's letters gives Jerome's Latin translation, made at Epiphanius' request, of his letter, originally in Greek from c. 394, \"From Epiphanius, Bishop of Salamis, in Cyprus, to John, Bishop of Jerusalem\" (see previous section for wider context). The final section covers the often quoted incident of the curtain, which unlike other passages attributed to Epiphanius and quoted by the Iconoclasts, is accepted as authentic by modern scholars:\n\n9. Moreover, I have heard that certain persons have this grievance against me: When I accompanied you to the holy place called Bethel, there to join you in celebrating the Collect, after the use of the Church, I came to a villa called Anablatha and, as I was passing, saw a lamp burning there. Asking what place it was, and learning it to be a church, I went in to pray, and found there a curtain hanging on the doors of the said church, dyed and embroidered. It bore an image either of Christ or of one of the saints; I do not rightly remember whose the image was. Seeing this, and being loth that an image of a man should be hung up in Christ’s church contrary to the teaching of the Scriptures, I tore it asunder and advised the custodians of the place to use it as a winding sheet for some poor person. They, however, murmured, and said that if I made up my mind to tear it, it was only fair that I should give them another curtain in its place. As soon as I heard this, I promised that I would give one, and said that I would send it at once. Since then there has been some little delay, due to the fact that I have been seeking a curtain of the best quality to give to them instead of the former one, and thought it right to send to Cyprus for one. I have now sent the best that I could find, and I beg that you will order the presbyter of the place to take the curtain which I have sent from the hands of the Reader, and that you will afterwards give directions that curtains of the other sort—opposed as they are to our religion—shall not be hung up in any church of Christ. A man of your uprightness should be careful to remove an occasion of offence unworthy alike of the Church of Christ and of those Christians who are committed to your charge. Beware of Palladius of Galatia—a man once dear to me, but who now sorely needs God’s pity—for he preaches and teaches the heresy of Origen; and see to it that he does not seduce any of those who are intrusted to your keeping into the perverse ways of his erroneous doctrine. I pray that you may fare well in the Lord.\n\nHis best-known book is the \"Panarion\" which means \"medicine-chest\" (also known as \"Adversus Haereses\", \"Against Heresies\"), presented as a book of antidotes for those bitten by the serpent of heresy. Written between 374 and 377, it forms a handbook for dealing with the arguments of heretics.\n\nIt lists, and refutes, 80 heresies, some of which are not described in any other surviving documents from the time. Epiphanius begins with the 'four mothers' of pre-Christian heresy – 'barbarism', 'Scythism', 'Hellenism' and 'Judaism' – and then addresses the sixteen pre-Christian heresies that have flowed from them: four philosophical schools (Stoics, Platonists, Pythagoreans and Epicureans), and twelve Jewish sects. There then follows an interlude, telling of the Incarnation of the Word. After this, Epiphanius embarks on his account of the sixty Christian heresies, from assorted gnostics to the various trinitarian heresies of the fourth century, closing with the Collyridians and Messalians.\n\nWhile Epiphanius often let his zeal come before facts – he admits on one occasion that he writes against the Origenists-based only on hearsay (\"Panarion\", Epiphanius 71) – the \"Panarion\" is a valuable source of information on the Christian Church of the fourth century. It is also an important source regarding the early Jewish gospels such as the Gospel according to the Hebrews circulating among the Ebionites and the Nazarenes, as well as the followers of Cerinthus and Merinthus.\n\nOne unique feature of the \"Panarion\" is in the way that Epiphanius compares the various heretics to different poisonous beasts, going so far as to describe in detail the animal's characteristics, how it produces its poison, and how to protect oneself from the animal's bite or poison. For example, he describes his enemy Origen as \"a toad noisy from too much moisture which keeps croaking louder and louder.\" He compares the Gnostics to a particularly dreaded snake \"with no pangs.\" The Ebionites, a Christian sect that followed Jewish law, were described by Epiphanius as \"a monstrosity with many shapes, who practically formed the snake-like shape of the mythical many-headed Hydra in himself.\" In all, Epiphanius describes fifty animals, usually one per sect.\n\nAnother feature of the \"Panarion\" is the access its earlier sections provide to lost works, notably Justin Martyr's work on heresies, the Greek of Irenaeus' \"Against Heresies\", and Hippolytus' \"Syntagma\". The \"Panarion\" was first translated into English in 1987 and 1990.\n\nHis earliest known work is the \"Ancoratus\" (the well anchored man), which includes arguments against Arianism and the teachings of Origen. Aside from the polemics by which he is known, Epiphanius wrote a work of biblical antiquarianism, called, for one of its sections, \"On Weights and Measures\" (περὶ μέτρων καὶ στάθμων). It was composed in Constantinople for a Persian priest, in 392, and survives in Syriac, Armenian, and Georgian translations (this last is found in \"Shatberd ms 1141\" along with \"Physiologus\" and \"De Gemmis\"). The first section discusses the canon of the Old Testament and its versions, the second of measures and weights, and the third, the geography of Palestine. The texts appear not to have been given a polish but consist of rough notes and sketches, as Allen A. Shaw, a modern commentator, concluded; nevertheless Epiphanius' work on metrology was important in the history of measurement.\n\nAnother work, \"On the Twelve Gems\" (\"De Gemmis\"), survives in a number of fragments, the most complete of which is the Georgian. The letter written by Epiphanius to John, Bishop of Jerusalem, in 394 and preserved in Jerome's translation, is discussed above. The collection of homilies traditionally ascribed to a \"Saint Epiphanius, bishop\" are dated in the late fifth or sixth century and are not connected with Epiphanius of Salamis by modern scholars.\n\nSuch was Epiphanius's reputation for learning that the \"Physiologus\", the principal source of medieval bestiaries, came to be widely falsely attributed to him.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "31097498", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31097498", "title": "Essays and Aphorisms on the Higher Man", "text": "Essays and Aphorisms on the Higher Man\n\nEssays and Aphorisms on the Higher Man is the work of the American writer and philosopher, Emile Benoit (writer). \n\nThe Foreword Clarion Review writes that \"History has shown examples of man trying to pull himself out of his ignorant bliss and stagnancy, from the philosopher kings and Renaissance man to Nietzsche's Superman. A scant number of individuals have dared to become something more by the unremitting quest for knowledge gained from the arts, religion, philosophy, etc., and the implementation of this knowledge across the broad spectrum of their lives and the lives of others…[H]umanity can go beyond Kant, Hume, Nietzsche's Superman, and the selfishness of Sartre's existential humanism. In a sense, he or she can become a \"higher man.\" \n\nBenoit writes, \"The evolution of the species will be when man can incorporate and digest all of his religions and live wholly, honestly and peacefully with himself and others…when he accepts all the religions, arts, and sciences as expressions of human greatness; a time when even the truth will no longer be an eternal proposition but simply an expression of mankind’s prominence at making the incomprehensible understood – if but only briefly.\" \n\nAs Benoit writes in the preface of the book, his intention is \"to inspire, rather than impose, to incite rather than allow man to settle into a comfortable repose, delighted with himself.\" The book has won critical acclaim from reviewers as well as New York Times bestselling authors.\n"}
{"id": "149297", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=149297", "title": "Fayum mummy portraits", "text": "Fayum mummy portraits\n\nMummy portraits or Fayum mummy portraits (also Faiyum mummy portraits) is the modern term given to a type of naturalistic painted portrait on wooden boards attached to Upper class mummies from Roman Egypt. They belong to the tradition of panel painting, one of the most highly regarded forms of art in the Classical world. The Fayum portraits are the only large body of art from that tradition to have survived.\n\nMummy portraits have been found across Egypt, but are most common in the Faiyum Basin, particularly from Hawara in the Fayum Basin (hence the common name) and the Hadrianic Roman city Antinoopolis. \"Faiyum Portraits\" is generally used as a stylistic, rather than a geographic, description. While painted cartonnage mummy cases date back to pharaonic times, the Faiyum mummy portraits were an innovation dating to the time of the Roman occupation of Egypt.\n\nThe portraits date to the Imperial Roman era, from the late 1st century BC or the early 1st century AD onwards. It is not clear when their production ended, but recent research suggests the middle of the 3rd century. They are among the largest groups among the very few survivors of the panel painting tradition of the classical world, which was continued into Byzantine and Western traditions in the post-classical world, including the local tradition of Coptic iconography in Egypt.\n\nThe portraits covered the faces of bodies that were mummified for burial. Extant examples indicate that they were mounted into the bands of cloth that were used to wrap the bodies. Almost all have now been detached from the mummies. They usually depict a single person, showing the head, or head and upper chest, viewed frontally. In terms of artistic tradition, the images clearly derive more from Greco-Roman artistic traditions than Egyptian ones.\n\nTwo groups of portraits can be distinguished by technique: one of encaustic (wax) paintings, the other in tempera. The former are usually of higher quality.\n\nAbout 900 mummy portraits are known at present. The majority were found in the necropoleis of Faiyum. Due to the hot dry Egyptian climate, the paintings are frequently very well preserved, often retaining their brilliant colours seemingly unfaded by time.\n\nThe Italian explorer Pietro della Valle, on a visit to Saqqara-Memphis in 1615, was the first European to discover and describe mummy portraits. He transported some mummies with portraits to Europe, which are now in the Albertinum (Staatliche Kunstsammlungen Dresden).\n\nAlthough interest in Ancient Egypt steadily increased after that period, further finds of mummy portraits did not become known before the early 19th century. The provenance of these first new finds is unclear; they may come from Saqqara as well, or perhaps from Thebes. In 1820, the Baron of Minotuli acquired several mummy portraits for a German collector, but they became part of a whole shipload of Egyptian artifacts lost in the North Sea. In 1827, Léon de Laborde brought two portraits, supposedly found in Memphis, to Europe, one of which can today be seen at the Louvre, the other in the British Museum. Ippolito Rosellini, a member of Jean-François Champollion's 1828/29 expedition to Egypt, brought a further portrait back to Florence. It is so similar to de Laborde's specimens that it is thought to be from the same source. During the 1820s, the British Consul General to Egypt, Henry Salt, sent several further portraits to Paris and London. Some of them were long considered portraits of the family of the Theban Archon Pollios Soter, a historical character known from written sources, but this has turned out to be incorrect.\n\nOnce again, a long period elapsed before more mummy portraits came to light. In 1887, Daniel Marie Fouquet heard of the discovery of numerous portrait mummies in a cave. He set off to inspect them some days later, but arrived too late, as the finders had used the painted plaques for firewood during the three previous cold desert nights. Fouquet acquired the remaining two of what had originally been fifty portraits. While the exact location of this find is unclear, the likely source is from er-Rubayat. At that location, not long after Fouquet's visit, the Viennese art trader Theodor Graf found several further images, which he tried to sell as profitably as possible. He engaged the famous Leipzig-based Egyptologist Georg Ebers to publish his finds. He produced presentation folders to advertise his individual finds throughout Europe. Although little was known about their archaeological find contexts, Graf went as far as to ascribe the portraits to known Ptolemaic pharaohs by analogy with other works of art, mainly coin portraits. None of these associations were particularly well argued or convincing, but they gained him much attention, not least because he gained the support of well-known scholars like Rudolf Virchow. As a result, mummy portraits became the centre of much attention. By the late 19th century, their very specific aesthetic made them sought-after collection pieces, distributed by the global arts trade.\n\nIn parallel, more scientific engagement with the portraits was beginning. In 1887, the British archaeologist Flinders Petrie started excavations at Hawara. He discovered a Roman necropolis which yielded 81 portrait mummies in the first year of excavation. At an exhibition in London, these portraits drew large crowds. In the following year, Petrie continued excavations at the same location but now suffered from the competition of a German and an Egyptian art dealer. Petrie returned in the winter of 1910/11 and excavated a further 70 portrait mummies, some of them quite badly preserved. With very few exceptions, Petrie's studies still provide the only examples of mummy portraits so far found as the result of systematic excavation and published properly. Although the published studies are not entirely up to modern standards, they remain the most important source for the find contexts of portrait mummies.\n\nIn 1892, the German archaeologist von Kaufmann discovered the so-called \"Tomb of Aline\", which held three mummy portraits; among the most famous today. Other important sources of such finds are at Antinopolis and Akhmim. The French archaeologist Albert Gayet worked at Antinoopolis and found much relevant material, but his work, like that of many of his contemporaries, does not satisfy modern standards. His documentation is incomplete, many of his finds remain without context.\n\nToday, mummy portraits are represented in all important archaeological museums of the world. Many have fine examples on display, notably the British Museum, the National Museum of Scotland, the Metropolitan Museum of Art in New York and the Louvre in Paris. Because they were mostly recovered through inappropriate and unprofessional means, virtually all are without archaeological context, a fact which consistently lowers the quality of archaeological and culture-historical information they provide. As a result, their overall significance as well as their specific interpretations remain controversial.\n\nA majority of images show a formal portrait of a single figure, facing and looking toward the viewer, from an angle that is usually slightly turned from full face. The figures are presented as busts against a monochrome background which in some instances are decorated. The individuals are both male and female and range in age from childhood to old age.\n\nThe majority of preserved mummy portraits were painted on boards or panels, made from different imported hardwoods, including oak, lime, sycamore, cedar, cypress, fig, and citrus. The wood was cut into thin rectangular panels and made smooth. The finished panels were set into layers of wrapping that enclosed the body and were surrounded by bands of cloth, giving the effect of a window-like opening through which the face of the deceased could be seen. Portraits were sometimes painted directly onto the canvas or rags of the mummy wrapping (cartonnage painting).\n\nThe wooden surface was sometimes primed for painting with a layer of plaster. In some cases the primed layer reveals a preparatory drawing.\nTwo painting techniques were employed: encaustic (wax) painting and animal glue tempera. The encaustic images are striking because of the contrast between vivid and rich colours, and comparatively large brush-strokes, producing an \"Impressionistic\" effect. The tempera paintings have a finer gradation of tones and chalkier colours, giving a more restrained appearance. In some cases, gold leaf was used to depict jewellery and wreaths. There also are examples of hybrid techniques or of variations from the main techniques.\n\nThe Fayum portraits reveal a wide range of painterly expertise and skill in presenting a lifelike appearance. The naturalism of the portraits is often revealed in knowledge of anatomic structure and in skilled modelling of the form by the use of light and shade, which gives an appearance of three-dimensionality to most of the figures. The graded flesh tones are enhanced with shadows and highlights indicative of directional lighting.\n\nUnder Greco-Roman rule, Egypt hosted several Greek settlements, mostly concentrated in Alexandria, but also in a few other cities, where Greek settlers lived alongside some seven to ten million native Egyptians. Faiyum's earliest Greek inhabitants were soldier-veterans and \"cleruchs\" (elite military officials) who were settled by the Ptolemaic kings on reclaimed lands. Native Egyptians also came to settle in Faiyum from all over the country, notably the Nile Delta, Upper Egypt, Oxyrhynchus and Memphis, to undertake the labor involved in the land reclamation process, as attested by personal names, local cults and recovered papyri. It is estimated that as much as 30 percent of the population of Faiyum was Greek during the Ptolemaic period, with the rest being native Egyptians. By the Roman period, much of the \"Greek\" population of Faiyum was made-up of either Hellenized Egyptians or people of mixed Egyptian-Greek origins. Later, in the Roman Period, many veterans of the Roman army, who, initially at least, were not Egyptian but people from disparate cultural backgrounds, settled in the area after the completion of their service, and formed social relations and intermarried with local populations.\n\nWhile commonly believed to represent Greek settlers in Egypt, the Faiyum portraits instead reflect the complex synthesis of the predominant Egyptian culture and that of the elite Greek minority in the city. According to Walker, the early Ptolemaic Greek colonists married local women and adopted Egyptian religious beliefs, and by Roman times, their descendants were viewed as Egyptians by the Roman rulers, despite their own self-perception of being Greek. The dental morphology of the Roman-period Faiyum mummies was also compared with that of earlier Egyptian populations, and was found to be \"much more closely akin\" to that of ancient Egyptians than to Greeks or other European populations.\n\nThe portraits represent native Egyptians, some of whom had adopted Greek or Latin names, then seen as ‘status symbols’. DNA studies show genetic continuity between the Pre-Ptolemaic, Ptolemaic and Roman populations, indicating that foreign rule impacted the town’s population only to a very limited degree at the genetic level.\n\nMost of the portraits depict the deceased at a relatively young age, and many show children. According to Walker, C.A.T. scans reveal a correspondence of age and sex between mummy and image. He concludes that the age distribution reflects the low life expectancy at the time. It was often believed that the wax portraits were completed during the life of the individual and displayed in their home, a custom that belonged to the traditions of Greek art, but this view is no longer widely held given the evidence suggested by the C.A.T. scans of the Faiyum mummies, as well as Roman census returns. In addition, some portraits were painted directly onto the coffin; for example, on a shroud or another part.\n\nThe patrons of the portraits apparently belonged to the affluent upper class of military personnel, civil servants and religious dignitaries. Not everyone could afford a mummy portrait; many mummies were found without one. Flinders Petrie states that only one or two per cent of the mummies he excavated were embellished with portraits. The rates for mummy portraits do not survive, but it can be assumed that the material caused higher costs than the labour, since in antiquity, painters were appreciated as craftsmen rather than as artists. The situation from the \"Tomb of Aline\" is interesting in this regard. It contained four mummies: those of Aline, of two children and of her husband. Unlike his wife and children, the latter was not equipped with a portrait but with a gilt three-dimensional mask. Perhaps plaster masks were preferred if they could be afforded.\n\nBased on literary, archaeological and genetic studies, it appears that those depicted were native Egyptians, who had adopted the dominant Greco-Roman culture. The name of some of those portrayed are known from inscriptions, they are predominantly Greek. Hairstyles and clothing are always influenced by Roman fashion. Women and children are often depicted wearing valuable ornaments and fine garments, men often wearing specific and elaborate outfits. Greek inscriptions of names are relatively common, sometimes they include professions. It is not known whether such inscriptions always reflect reality, or whether they may state ideal conditions or aspirations rather than true conditions. One single inscription is known to definitely indicate the deceased's profession (a shipowner) correctly. The mummy of a woman named Hermione also included the term \"grammatike\" (γραμματική). For a long time, it was assumed that this indicated that she was a teacher by profession (for this reason, Flinders Petrie donated the portrait to Girton College, Cambridge, the first residential college for women in Britain), but today, it is assumed that the term indicates her level of education. Some portraits of men show sword-belts or even pommels, suggesting that they were members of the Roman military.\n\nThe burial habits of Ptolemaic Egyptians mostly followed ancient traditions. The bodies of members of the upper classes were mummified, equipped with a decorated coffin and a mummy mask to cover the head. The Greeks who entered Egypt at that time mostly followed their own habits. There is evidence from Alexandria and other sites indicating that they practised the Greek tradition of cremation. This broadly reflects the general situation in Hellenistic Egypt, its rulers proclaiming themselves to be pharaohs but otherwise living in an entirely Hellenistic world, incorporating only very few local elements. Conversely, the Egyptians only slowly developed an interest in the Greek-Hellenic culture that dominated the East Mediterranean since the conquests of Alexander. This situation changed substantially with the arrival of the Romans. Within a few generations, all Egyptian elements disappeared from everyday life. Cities like Karanis or Oxyrhynchus are largely Graeco-Roman places. There is clear evidence that this resulted from a mixing of different ethnicities in the ruling classes of Roman Egypt.\n\nOnly in the sphere of religion is there evidence for a continuation of Egyptian traditions. Egyptian temples were erected as late as the 2nd century. In terms of burial habits, Egyptian and Hellenistic elements now mixed. Coffins became increasingly unpopular and went entirely out of use by the 2nd century. In contrast, mummification appears to have been practised by large parts of the population. The mummy mask, originally an Egyptian concept, grew more and more Graeco-Roman in style, Egyptian motifs became ever rarer. The adoption of Roman portrait painting into Egyptian burial cult belongs into this general context.\n\nSome authors suggest that the idea of such portraits may be related to the custom among the Roman nobility of displaying \"imagines\", images of their ancestors, in the atrium of their house. In funeral processions, these wax masks were worn by professional mourners to emphasize the continuity of an illustrious family line, but originally perhaps to represent a deeper evocation of the presence of the dead. Roman festivals such as the Parentalia as well as everyday domestic rituals cultivated ancestral spirits (see also veneration of the dead). The development of mummy portraiture may represent a combination of Egyptian and Roman funerary tradition, since it appears only after Egypt was established as a Roman province.\n\nThe images depict the heads or busts of men, women and children. They probably date from c. 30 BC to the 3rd century. To the modern eye, the portraits appear highly individualistic. Therefore, it has been assumed for a long time that they were produced during the lifetime of their subjects and displayed as \"salon paintings\" within their houses, to be added to their mummy wrapping after their death. Newer research rather suggests that they were only painted after death, an idea perhaps contradicted by the multiple paintings on some specimens and the (suggested) change of specific details on others. The individualism of those depicted was actually created by variations in some specific details, within a largely unvaried general scheme. The habit of depicting the deceased was not a new one, but the painted images gradually replaced the earlier Egyptian masks, although the latter continued in use for some time, often occurring directly adjacent to portrait mummies, sometimes even in the same graves.\n\nTogether with the painted Etruscan tombs, the Lucanian tombs and the Tomb of the Diver in Paestum, the frescoes from Pompeii and Herculaneum and the Greek vases, they are the best preserved paintings from ancient times and are renowned for their remarkable naturalism. It is, however, debatable whether the portraits depict the subjects as they really were. Analyses have shown that the painters depicted faces according to conventions in a repetitive and formulaic way, albeit with a variety of hairstyles and beards. They appear to have worked from a number of standard types without making detailed observations of the unique facial proportions of specific individuals which give each face its own personality.\n\nIn the virtual absence of other panel paintings from the period in question, it is difficult to make firm statements about the stylistic context of the portraits. While it seems clear that they are not in continuity from Egyptian precedents, the same cannot be said for the northern shores of the Mediterranean, where such material is less likely to have survived, due to climatic conditions there. Evidence from frescoes, mosaics and other media suggests that stylistically, the mummy portraits broadly fit within the prevailing Graeco-Roman traditions then dominant around the Mediterranean.\n\nThe religious meaning of mummy portraits has not, so far, been fully explained, nor have associated grave rites. There is some indication that it developed from genuine Egyptian funerary rites, adapted by a multi-cultural ruling class. The tradition of mummy portraits occurred from the Delta to Nubia, but it is striking that other funerary habits prevailed over portrait mummies at all sites except those in the Faiyum (and there especially Hawara and Achmim) and Antinoopolis. In most sites, different forms of burial coexisted. The choice of grave type may have been determined to a large extent by the financial means and status of the deceased, modified by local customs. Portrait mummies have been found both in rock-cut tombs and in freestanding built grave complexes, but also in shallow pits. It is striking that they are virtually never accompanied by any grave offerings, with the exception of occasional pots or sprays of flowers.\n\nFor a long time, it was assumed that the latest portraits belong to the end of the 4th century, but recent research has modified this view considerably, suggesting that the last wooden portraits belong to the middle, the last directly painted mummy wrappings to the second half of the 3rd century. It is commonly accepted that production reduced considerably since the beginning of the 3rd century. Several reasons for the decline of the mummy portrait have been suggested; no single reason should probably be isolated, rather, they should be seen as operating together.\n\nThus, a combination of several factors appears to have led to changes of fashion and ritual. No clear causality can be asserted.\n\nConsidering the limited nature of the current understanding of portrait mummies, it remains distinctly possible that future research will considerably modify the image presented here. For example, some scholars suspect that the centre of production of such finds, and thus the centre of the distinctive funerary tradition they represent, may have been located at Alexandria. New finds from Marina el-Alamein strongly support such a view. In view of the near-total loss of Greek and Roman paintings, mummy portraits are today considered to be among the very rare examples of ancient art that can be seen to reflect \"Great paintings\" and especially Roman portrait painting.\n\nMummy portraits depict a variety of different hairstyles. They are one of the main aids in dating the paintings. The majority of the deceased were depicted with hairstyles then in fashion. They are frequently similar to those depicted in sculpture. As part of Roman propaganda, such sculptures, especially those depicting the imperial family, were often displayed throughout the empire. Thus, they had a direct influence on the development of fashion. Nevertheless, the mummy portraits, as well as other finds, suggest that fashions lasted longer in the provinces than in the imperial court, or at least that diverse styles might coexist.\n\nSince Roman men tended to wear short-cropped hair, female hairstyles are a better source of evidence for changes in fashion. The female portraits suggest a coarse chronological scheme: Simple hairstyles with a central parting in the Tiberian period are followed by more complex ringlet hairstyles, nested plaits and curly toupées over the forehead in the late 1st century. Small oval nested plaits dominate the time of the Antonines, simple central-parting hairstyles with a hairknot in the neck occur in the second half of the 2nd century. The time of Septimius Severus was characterised by toupée-like fluffy as well as strict, straight styles, followed by looped plaits on the crown of the head. The latter belong to the very final phase of mummy portraits, and have only been noted on a few mummy wrappings. It seems to be the case that curly hairstyles were especially popular in Egypt.\n\nLike the hairstyles, the clothing depicted also follows the general fashions of the Roman Empire, as known from statues and busts. Both men and women tend to wear a thin chiton as an undergarment. Above it, both sexes tend to wear a cloak, laid across the shoulders or wound around the torso. The males wear virtually exclusively white, while female clothing is often red or pink, but can also be yellow, white, blue or purple. The chiton often bears a decorative line (\"clavus\"), occasionally light red or light green, also sometimes gold, but normally in dark colours. Some painted mummy wrappings from Antinoopolis depict garments with long sleeves and very wide \"clavi\". So far, not a single portrait has been definitely shown to depict the toga, a key symbol of Roman citizenship. It should, however, be kept in mind that Greek cloaks and togas are draped very similarly on depictions of the 1st and early 2nd centuries. In the late 2nd and 3rd centuries, togas should be distinguishable, but fail to occur.\n\nApart from the gold wreaths worn by many men, with very few exceptions, only women are depicted with jewellery. This generally accords with the common jewellery types of the Graeco-Roman East. Especially the Antinoopolis portraits depict simple gold link chains and massive gold rings. There are also depictions of precious or semi-precious stones like emerald, carnelian, garnet, agate or amethyst, rarely also of pearls. The stones were normally ground into cylindrical or spherical beads. Some portraits depict elaborate colliers, with precious stones set in gold.\n\nThe gold wreath was apparently rarely, if ever, worn in life, but a number have been found in graves from much earlier periods. Based on the plant wreaths given as prizes in contests, the idea was apparently to celebrate the achievements of the deceased in life.\n\nThere are three basic shapes of ear ornaments: Especially common in the 1st century are circular or drop-shaped pendants. Archaeological finds indicate that these were fully or semi-spherical. Later tastes favoured S-shaped hooks of gold wire, on which up to five beads of different colours and materials could be strung. The third shape are elaborate pendants with a horizontal bar from which two or three, occasionally four, vertical rods are suspended, usually each decorated with a white bead or pearl at the bottom. Other common ornaments include gold hairpins, often decorated with pearls, fine diadems, and, especially at Antinoopolis, gold hairnets. Many portraits also depict amulets and pendants, perhaps with magical functions.\n\nThe mummy portraits have immense art-historical importance. Ancient sources indicate that panel painting (rather than wall painting), i.e. painting on wood or other mobile surfaces was held in high regard. But very few ancient panel paintings\nsurvive. One of the few examples besides the mummy portraits is the Severan Tondo, also from Egypt (around 200), which, like the mummy portraits, is believed to represent a provincial version of contemporary style.\nSome aspects of the mummy portraits, especially their frontal perspective and their concentration on key facial features, strongly resemble later icon painting. A direct link has been suggested, but it should be kept in mind that the mummy portraits represent only a small part of a much wider Graeco-Roman tradition, the whole of which later bore an influence on Late Antique and Byzantine Art. A pair of panel \"icons\" of Serapis and Isis of comparable date (3rd century) and style are in the Getty Museum at Malibu; as with the cult of Mithras, earlier examples of cult images were sculptures or pottery figurines, but from the 3rd century reliefs and then painted images are found.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "39109684", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39109684", "title": "For sale: baby shoes, never worn", "text": "For sale: baby shoes, never worn\n\n\"For sale: baby shoes, never worn.\" is the entirety of what has been described as a six-word story, making it an extreme example of what is called flash fiction or sudden fiction. Although it is often attributed to Ernest Hemingway, the link to him is unsubstantiated and similar stories predate him.\n\nThe claim of Hemingway's authorship originates in an unsubstantiated anecdote about a wager between him and other writers. In a 1992 letter to Canadian humorist John Robert Colombo, science fiction writer Arthur C. Clarke recounts it thus: While lunching with friends at a restaurant (variously identified as Luchow's or The Algonquin), Hemingway bets the table ten dollars each that he can craft an entire story in six words. After the pot is assembled, Hemingway writes \"For sale: baby shoes, never worn\" on a napkin, passes this around the table, and collects his winnings.\n\nThe May 16, 1910, edition of \"The Spokane Press\" had an article titled \"Tragedy of Baby's Death is Revealed in Sale of Clothes.\" At that time, Hemingway would only have been aged ten, and years away from beginning his writing career.\n\nIn 1917, William R. Kane published a piece in a periodical called \"The Editor\" where he outlined the basic idea of a grief-stricken woman who had lost her baby and even suggested the title of \"Little Shoes, Never Worn\". In his version of the story, the shoes are being given away rather than sold. He suggests that this would provide some measure of solace for the seller, as it would mean that another baby would at least benefit directly.\n\nBy 1921, the story was already being parodied: the July issue of \"Judge\" that year published a version that used a baby carriage instead of shoes; there, however, the narrator described contacting the seller to offer condolences, only to be told that the sale was due to the birth of twins rather than of a single child.\n\nThe earliest known connection to Hemingway was in 1991, thirty years after the author’s death. This attribution was in a book by Peter Miller called \"Get Published! Get Produced!: A Literary Agent’s Tips on How to Sell Your Writing\". He said he was told the story by a \"well-established newspaper syndicator\" in 1974. In 1992, John Robert Colombo printed a letter from Arthur C. Clarke that repeated the story, complete with Hemingway having won $10 each from fellow writers.\n\nThis connection to Hemingway was reinforced by a one-man play called \"Papa\" by John deGroot, which debuted in 1996. Set during a \"Life\" magazine photo session in 1959, deGroot has the character utter the phrase as a means of illustrating Hemingway’s brevity. In \"Playbill\", deGroot defended his portrayal of Hemingway by saying, \"Everything in the play is based on events as described by Ernest Hemingway, or those who knew him well. Whether or not these things actually happened is something we’ll never know truly. But Hemingway and many others claimed they did.\"\n\nThe general concept of trying to tell a story with the absolute minimum of words became known by the general term of flash fiction. The six-word limit in particular has spawned the concept of Six-Word Memoirs, including a collection published in book form in 2008 by \"Smith Magazine\", and two sequels published in 2009.\n"}
{"id": "1999401", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1999401", "title": "Gynocriticism", "text": "Gynocriticism\n\nGynocriticism or gynocritics is the term coined in the seventies by Elaine Showalter to describe a new literary project intended to construct \"a female framework for the analysis of women's literature\".\n\nBy expanding the historical study of women writers as a distinct literary tradition, gynocritics sought to develop new models based on the study of female experience to replace male models of literary creation, and so \"map the territory\" left unexplored in earlier literary criticisms.\n\nWhile previous figures like Virginia Woolf and Simone de Beauvoir had already begun to review and evaluate the female image in literature, and second-wave feminism had explored phallocentrism and sexism through a female reading of male authors, gynocriticism was designed as a \"second phase\" in feminist criticism – turning to a focus on, and interrogation of female authorship, images, the feminine experience and ideology, and the history and development of the female literary tradition.\n\nGynocriticism also examines the female struggle for identity and the social construct of gender. According to Elaine Showalter, gynocritics is the study of not only the female as a gender status but also the 'internalized consciousness' of the female. The uncovering of the female subculture and exposition of a female model is the intention of gynocriticism, comprising recognition of a distinct female canon where a female identity is sought free from the masculine definitions and oppositions.\n\nGynocriticism accordingly challenged a Freudian psychoanalytic perspective whereby the female inherently suffers envy of men and feelings of inadequacy and injustice, combined with feelings of intellectual inferiority. Arguing that male 'phallic prejudice' itself creates a female consciousness that demands a critique, and that prejudice against the female incites a specific noesis that gets attributed to the female, Gynocriticism stressed that this prejudice has concealed the female literary tradition to the point of imitating the masculine.\n\nGynocriticism helped reclaim from obscurity a vast body of early female writings, often published in Virago, as well as producing such feminist classics as \"The Madwoman in the Attic\". However its very successes left it open to new challenges from within feminism. Poststructuralists complained that it fetishized the role of the author, at the expense of the reader and the text, and that its grand narrative, setting up a female canon in opposition to the male, was essentialist, and omitted differences and divisions among women, leaving out lesbians and women of color, for example.\n\nRace, class, social interest, political inclination, religion and sexuality all arguably come into play in the construction of identity. Separating out such properties would create a one-dimensional view of the female, yet if gender and identity are merely constructs then it becomes difficult to assign any inherent qualities of nature or language to found a critique.\n\nDespite such limitations, gynocriticism offers a valuable interrogation of 'female' literature, through the study of sameness and difference in gender. While the term is rarely used in third-wave feminism, the \"practices\" and canon establishment of gynocriticism continues to underpin feminist literary criticism.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "48744323", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48744323", "title": "Hyperart Thomasson", "text": "Hyperart Thomasson\n\nThomasson or Hyperart Thomasson (Japanese: \"Tomason\" トマソン or \"Chōgeijutsu Tomason\" 超芸術トマソン) is a type of conceptual art named by the Japanese artist Akasegawa Genpei in the 1980s. It refers to a useless relic or structure that has been preserved as part of a building or the built environment, which has become a piece of art in itself. These objects, although having the appearance of pieces of conceptual art, were not created to be viewed as such. Akasegawa deemed them even more art-like than art itself, and named them \"hyperart.\" In recent years there has been a resurgence of interest in Thomasson, especially since the publication of Akasegawa's work on the subject in English in 2010.\n\nThe term Thomasson comes from the professional baseball player Gary Thomasson, who was signed by the Yomiuri Giants for a record-breaking sum of money, and spent his final two seasons with the team (1981–1982) coming close to setting the league strikeout record before being benched. Akasegawa viewed Thomasson's useless position on the team as a fitting analogy for \"an object, part of a building, that was maintained in good condition, but with no purpose, to the point of becoming a work of art.\" \n\nIn Japanese there is no differentiation between singular and plural versions of the noun \"Tomason\", therefore in English too, Thomasson can refer to one or many of these objects. In English, the term is sometimes spelled Tomason, or Thomason.\n\nAkasegawa discovered the first Thomasson in 1972, in Yotsuya, Tokyo when he noticed a staircase that had no entranceway when one reached the top. The handlerail of the staircase, however, showed signs of repair, suggesting it was still being maintained despite the apparent uselessness of the staircase itself. The following year, Akasegawa discovered a boarded up ticket window at Ekoda station on the Seibu Ikebukuro Line. The plywood used to board up the window had been cut neatly to fit the curved stone tray of the ticket window, where it had been worn through years of use. Minami Shindō, a fellow artist and friend of Akasegawa also found a gateway at a hospital in Ochanomizu that had been completely filled up with concrete, whilst the gateway itself was still in good condition.\n\nThe artists gave these objects names such as \"The pure staircase of Yotsuya,\" \"The useless window of Ekoda\" and \"The useless gate of Ochanomizu\" and referred to them collectively as \"hyperart\": their similar characteristics being \"an object which, just like a piece of art, has no purpose in society, but also, just like a piece of art is preserved with care, to the point where it appears to be on display. However, these objects do not appear to have a creator, making them even more art-like than regular art.\" Hyperart cannot be created by an artist, but only found and recognized as such by an observer.\n\nThose pieces of hyperart that were part of buildings or the built environment were given the name \"Thomasson.\" The name was decided upon during a discussion between Akasegawa and his students during his class on \"Modernology\" (a concept created by Wajiro Kon). At that time, Gary Thomasson's strikeout record was at 132.\n\nThe concept of Thomasson was introduced to the general public in 1982, via a series of articles in the magazine \"Shashin Jidai\" (Photo Times), published by Byakuya-Shobō. The articles featured findings by Akasegawa's students from his \"Modernology\" class as well as photographs of those \"objects\" catalogued by Akasegawa himself, and those sent in by readers. The articles created a \"Thomasson Boom\" and the concept soon spread. The early Thomasson articles featured in \"Shashin Jidai\" were published by Byakuya-Shobō as a book entitled \"Chōgeijutsu Tomason\". The complete series of articles was later published as a paperback by Chikuma Shobō in 1987, using the same title.\n\nThe Thomasson boom after the publication of articles in \"Shashin Jidai\" had a big effect on students and young people interested in arts and the avant-garde. The word Thomasson even spread to people who did not understand what it referred to, in a kind of social phenomenon. The cover of \"Chōgeijutsu Tomason\" featured a lost neighborhood of Minato-ku in Tokyo, Tani-cho, which vanished due to land redevelopment. Whilst not directly related to Thomasson, the story of Tani embodied its spirit. Its use on the cover of the book had a large effect on the \"Thomasson Boom.\" This case also showed the effects of the bubble economy on the city landscape. As historian Jordan Sand notes, cataloguing Thomasson was \"a way of regaining some sense of the human imprint on the city in an era when that imprint was being rapidly erased.\"\n\nIn 1983 the Thomasson Observation Center held an exhibition entitled \"Cityscape in Anguish\" at Gallery 612 in Shinjuku, displaying Akasegawa's paintings and photographs of Thomasson by Akasegawa, his students, and those sent in by readers of the magazine. Various tie-in events such as Thomasson bus tours, lectures by Akasegawa, as well as coverage on the Japanese national broadcaster NHK, and the publication, in 1987 of the complete \"Chōgeijutsu Tomason,\" were the peak of the Thomasson Boom.\n\nAround the same time, other artists and intellectuals were pursuing similar projects. Terunobu Fujimori's work on Architecture Detectives, Hayashi Jōji's work cataloguing manhole covers, Minami Shinbo's collections of paper stickers, Ichigi Tsutomu's work on architectural fragments and other such collections, led to Chikuma Shobō publishing a book entitled \"Rojō kansatsugaku nyūmon,\" or \"Manual on Street Observation\" in 1986. Alongside this, a Street Observation Society event was held to promote their work, along with a press conference.\n\nAlthough Street Observation did appear to be something of a boom, it was not the same type of movement that had surrounded the activities of Akasegawa, his students, and their magazine articles. After the arrival of the Street Observation Society, Thomasson disappeared from the public eye for a while, due in part to the fact that the Thomasson Observation Center, run by Akasegawa and his students, overwhelmed by press and public attention, stopped its activities soon after the boom reached its peak.\n\nIn the years immediately after the Thomasson boom, the concept was referenced in cinema and literature. In the film (1989) a scene featured the \"Atom-bomb type\" Thomasson. William Gibson's 1993 SF novel Virtual Light also makes multiple references to Thomasson.\n\nIn 2010 the Chikuma Shobō edition of \"Chōgeijutsu Tomason\" was translated into English by Matt Fargo and published as \"Hyperart:Thomasson.\" In 2012, the Thomasson Observation Center created a Facebook page, and started accepting posts on Thomasson via the internet. The posts were shared widely, and a special form was made available for download to fill out with details of newly discovered Thomasson. A new, internet-era Thomasson movement began. The book and concept have been covered by several English-language media outlets.\n\nIn 2013, the Thomasson Observation Center held a Grand Thomasson Exhibition at a gallery in Shinjuku, Tokyo to celebrate the 31st anniversary of its founding.\n\nHistorian of modern Japan Jordan Sand's 2013 work, \"Tokyo Vernacular: Common Spaces, Local Histories, Found Objects,\" also discusses the Thomasson phenomenon in its third chapter, entitled \"Deviant Properties: Street Observation Studies.\" Sand also contributed an essay to the 2010 translation of \"Hyperart: Thomasson\".\n\nIn 2013 “La Poussière de soleils,” an exhibition in Brooklyn gallery Real Fine Arts, featured Thomasson in the form of a photocopy of Akasegawa's photograph of a door handle sticking out of a cement wall.\n\nBased on the categories in Chikuma Shobō's \"Thomasson Illustrated Encyclopedia\" (\"Tomason Daizukan\" トマソン大図鑑)\n\nAlso known as a Pure Staircase. A staircase that only goes up and down. Most used to have a door at the top. Some useless staircases exist that were useless right from completion, due to changes or mix-ups in the design.\n\nEven though it has been blocked up, a Useless Doorway still maintains the majesty of its original purpose. In other cases, a Useless Doorway exists in a place that has no need for it, with no wall or fence around it.\n\nHisashi is the word for \"eaves\" in Japanese. This refers to useless eaves: ones that no longer have a window or door underneath them to protect from the rain.\n\nA blocked up window: one which is still beautiful due to the care taken in blocking it up.\n\nNurikabe is the word for \"plaster wall\" in Japanese. This overlaps with the Useless Doorway and Useless Window categories. It refers to a door or window that was meant to be completely sealed up with concrete, but a difference can still be seen between it and the surrounding area.\n\nA 2-D Thomasson. The outline of a building that remains in silhouette on a wall. This can be seen when a section of a tightly packed row of buildings is torn down. Cases that appear due to water are known as Hydrogen bombs (\"Suibaku\" 水爆). Cases that appear when a hoarding or sign is torn down are known as Neutron bombs (\"Chūseishibakudan\" 中性子爆弾).\n\nThese objects are normal themselves, but exist in a higher than normal place, therefore seeming strange. For example, a door with a handle on the second floor of a wall. These often appear when staircases are torn down. They can also appear when a winch or crane is kept inside the building, but a standard door is used on the outside.\n\nA protrudence from a sealed up wall, such as a door knob or tap.\n\nA sign or hoarding with letters missing. The first example of this was a shop sign which contained the words Uyama, but the rest of the lettering was missing, hence the name.\n\nA cuboid protuberance from a wall, named after Castella, a Japanese sponge cake. For example, a blocked up window which sticks out from the wall. The opposite of this, a sunken blocked up section, is known as a Reverse Castella.\n\nAn object sticking out at the side of the road, with no clear purpose, possibly used to stop cars parking. The first example of this was found by Akasegawa whilst walking from Shinbashi to Atago, hence the name.\n\nA roadside object which is partly submerged in concrete.\n\nA patch of ground that is different in height from that around it, usually where multiple construction works have taken place.\n\nA guardrail, fence or wall whose purpose is not immediately clear.\n\nA part of a building which is normally meant to be straight, but is slightly twisted. Often seen when an object that was created to be used straight is used at an angle.\n\nThe remains of a telephone pole cut down. The name refers to the Abe Sada Incident; a famous case from 1930s Japan in which a woman strangled her lover and then severed his genitalia with a kitchen knife.\n\nA tree which absorbs part of a fence or wire whilst still growing. However, this is not a particularly rare phenomenon, and occurs quite often. If there is no human involvement then it cannot be called a Thomasson, just a natural phenomenon. This is also known as the Stubborn Nature Type (\"shizen kohashi taipu\" 自然強しタイプ).\n\nA bridge over a filled-in river, or a bridge that has become useless. In the case of some covered drains, a bridge is still necessary for cars or heavy vehicles to cross. In this case these could not be called Useless Bridges, as they only appear useless.\n\nAn uncategorizable object whose use it is impossible to fathom. For example, the Pure Shutters, which open to reveal a blank wall, and the Pure Tunnel that exists without a surrounding hill. The Pure Staircase of Yotsuya belongs in this category.\n\nThe fading of color on a sign, or a monument with parts missing: an object whose meaning has become hard to work out. Cases often appear due to the long-lasting material of the object. This also often occurs when a sign's key phrases, painted in red for emphasis, disappear, leaving the rest of the sign hard to understand.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "55203838", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55203838", "title": "International TAKIFUJI Art Award", "text": "International TAKIFUJI Art Award\n\nInternational TAKIFUJI Art Award is an art award for students who belong to the designated art schools.\n\nThe applicants are evaluated and screened based on their works produced during their studies, by their supervisors' recommendations, and by judges by the leading figures in Japan art world. Scholarships as \"grants for production activities\" are given to the winners who are selected by at least one from each school. It is hosted by Japan Traffic Culture Association, a nonprofit organization in Japan, and was established in 1980 as TAKIFUJI Art Award (later changed to International TAKIFUJI Art Award).\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "15125", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15125", "title": "Irrealism (the arts)", "text": "Irrealism (the arts)\n\nIrrealism is a term that has been used by various writers in the fields of philosophy, literature, and art to denote specific modes of unreality and/or the problems in concretely defining reality. While in philosophy the term specifically refers to a position put forward by the American philosopher Nelson Goodman, in literature and art it refers to a variety of writers and movements. If the term has nonetheless retained a certain consistency in its use across these fields and would-be movements, it perhaps reflects the word’s position in general English usage: though the standard dictionary definition of \"irreal\" gives it the same meaning as \"unreal\", \"irreal\" is very rarely used in comparison with \"unreal\". Thus, it has generally been used to describe something which, while unreal, is so in a very specific or unusual fashion, usually one emphasizing not just the \"not real,\" but some form of estrangement from our generally accepted sense of reality.\n\nIn literature, the term irrealism was first used extensively in the United States in the 1970s to describe the post-realist \"new fiction\" of writers such as Donald Barthelme or John Barth. More generally, it described the notion that all forms of writing could only \"offer particular versions of reality rather than actual descriptions of it,\" and that a story need not offer a clear resolution at its end. John Gardner, in \"The Art of Fiction\", cites in this context the work of Barthelme and its \"seemingly limitless ability to manipulate [literary] techniques as modes of apprehension [which] apprehend nothing.\" Though Barth, in a 1974 interview, stated, \"irrealism—not antirealism or unrealism, but irrealism—is all that I would confidently predict is likely to characterize the prose fiction of the 1970s,\" this did not prove to be the case. Instead writing in the United States quickly returned to its realist orthodoxy and the term irrealism fell into disuse.\n\nIn recent years, however, the term has been revived in an attempt to describe and categorize, in literary and philosophical terms, how it is that the work of an irrealist writer differs from the work of writers in other, non-realistic genres (e.g., the fantasy of J.R.R. Tolkien, the magical realism of Gabriel García Márquez) and what the significance of this difference is. This can be seen in Dean Swinford's essay \"Defining irrealism: scientific development and allegorical possibility\". Approaching the issue from a structuralist and narratological point of view, he has defined irrealism as a \"peculiar mode of postmodern allegory\" that has resulted from modernity’s fragmentation and dismantling of the well-ordered and coherent medieval system of symbol and allegory. Thus a lion, when presented in a given context in medieval literature, could only be interpreted in a single, approved way. Contemporary literary theory, however, denies the attribution of such fixed meanings. According to Swinford, this change can be attributed in part to the fact that \"science and technical culture have changed perceptions of the natural world, have significantly changed the natural world itself, thereby altering the vocabulary of symbols applicable to epistemological and allegorical attempts to understand it.\" Thus irreal works such as Italo Calvino's \"Cosmicomics\" and Jorge Luis Borges' \"Ficciones\" can be seen as an attempt to find a new allegorical language to explain our changed perceptions of the world that have been brought about by our scientific and technical culture, especially concepts such as quantum physics or the theory of relativity. \"The Irrealist work, then, operates within a given system,\" writes Swinford, \"and attests to its plausibility, despite the fact that this system, and the world it represents, is often a mutation, an aberration.\"\n\nThe online journal \"The Cafe Irreal\" , on the other hand, has defined irrealism as being a type of existentialist literature in which the means are continually and absurdly rebelling against the ends that we have determined for them. An example of this would be Franz Kafka's story \"The Metamorphosis\", in which the salesman Gregor Samsa's plans for supporting his family and rising up in rank by hard work and determination are suddenly thrown topsy-turvy by his sudden and inexplicable transformation into a man-sized insect. Such fiction is said to emphasize the fact that human consciousness, being finite in nature, can never make complete sense of, or successfully order, a universe that is infinite in its aspects and possibilities. Which is to say: as much as we might try to order our world with a certain set of norms and goals (which we consider our real world), the paradox of a finite consciousness in an infinite universe creates a zone of irreality (\"that which is beyond the real\") that offsets, opposes, or threatens the real world of the human subject. Irrealist writing often highlights this irreality, and our strange fascination with it, by combining the unease we feel because the real world doesn't conform to our desires with the narrative quality of the dream state (where reality is constantly and inexplicably being undermined); it is thus said to communicate directly, \"by feeling rather than articulation, the uncertainties inherent in human existence or, to put it another way... the irreconcilability between human aspiration and human reality.\" If the irreal story can be considered an allegory, then, it would be an allegory that is \"so many pointers to an unknown meaning,\" in which the meaning is felt more than it is articulated or systematically analyzed.\n\nVarious writers have addressed the question of Irrealism in Art. Many salient observations on Irrealism in Art are found in Nelson Goodman's \"Languages of Art\". Goodman himself produced some multimedia shows, one of which inspired by hockey and is entitled \"Hockey Seen: A Nightmare in Three Periods and Sudden Death\".\n\nGarret Rowlan, writing in \"The Cafe Irreal\", writes that the malaise present in the work of the Italian artist Giorgio de Chirico, \"which recalls Kafka, has to do with the sense of another world lurking, hovering like the long shadows that dominate de Chirico's paintings, which frequently depict a landscape at twilight's uncertain hour. Malaise and mystery are all by-products of the interaction of the real and the unreal, the rub and contact of two worlds caught on irrealism's shimmering surface.\" \n\nThe writer Dean Swinford, whose concept of irrealism was described at length in the section \"Irrealism in Literature\", wrote that the artist Remedios Varos, in her painting \"The Juggler\", \"creates a personal allegorical system which relies on the predetermined symbols of Christian and classical iconography. But these are quickly refigured into a personal system informed by the scientific and organized like a machine...in the Irreal work, allegory operates according to an altered, but constant and orderly iconographic system.\"\n\nArtist Tristan Tondino has made a number of claims about Irrealism. Most of his claims are found in his paintings, many of which are Lettrist Abstractions. \"There is no specific style to Irrealist Art. It is the result of awareness that every human act is the result of the limitations of the world of the actor.\" \n\nIn Australia, the art journal \"the art life\" has recently detected the presence of a \"New Irrealism\" among the painters of that country, which is described as being an \"approach to painting that is decidedly low key, deploying its effects without histrionic showmanship, while creating an eerie other world of ghostly images and abstract washes.\" What exactly constituted the \"old\" irrealism, they do not say.\n\nIrrealist Art Edition is a publishing company created in the 90s by contemporary plastic artist Frédéric Iriarte. Together with the Estonian poet, writer and art critic Ilmar Laaban, they developed their concept of Irrealism through several essays, exhibitions, projects, manifest and a book, \"Irréalisation\". Irrealist Art Edition \n\nSome hardcore bands in Italy have claimed to be irrealist.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "49983192", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49983192", "title": "Jameh mosque of Meymeh", "text": "Jameh mosque of Meymeh\n\nThe Jameh mosque of Meymeh is a historical mosque in Meymeh, Iran. The mosque was built during the Safavid era.\n\n"}
{"id": "52664029", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52664029", "title": "Judas Repentant, Returning the Pieces of Silver", "text": "Judas Repentant, Returning the Pieces of Silver\n\nJudas Repentant, Returning the Thirty Pieces of Silver is a painting by Rembrandt, depicting the story of Matthew : \"Then Judas, which had betrayed him, when he saw that he was condemned, repented himself, and brought again the thirty pieces of silver to the chief priests and elders\". The painting is one of Rembrandt's earliest paintings and was made in 1629 while he was working in Leiden.\n\nAbout 1630 w:Constantijn Huygens wrote an analysis of the figure of Judas in Rembrandt's painting \"Judas Repentant\". Huygens argued that Rembrandt had surpassed the painters from Antiquity, as well as the great sixteenth-century Italian artists when it came to the representation of emotions expressed by figures that act in a history painting. The location of Rembrandt's painting \"Judas Repentant, Returning the Thirty Pieces of Silver\" is in Lythe, North Yorkshire, Mulgrave Castle]\n"}
{"id": "57520471", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57520471", "title": "Kalamazoo Book Arts Center", "text": "Kalamazoo Book Arts Center\n\nThe Kalamazoo Book Arts Center (KBAC) is a nonprofit organization of artists and writers located in Kalamazoo, Michigan.\n\nKBAC was founded by Jeff Abshear in 2005 to create a community workshop and educational space focused on the arts of book design and printing, fine printmaking, papermaking, bookbinding, and creative writing. The center is located at the Park Trades Center on Kalamazoo Avenue in downtown Kalamazoo. The organization is supported by grants (including the National Endowment for the Arts), and community support.\n\nKBAC has regular on-site book arts workshops. KBAC created and hosts the \"Poets in Print\" reading series. KBAC participates in the \"Arts Council of Greater Kalamazoo's\" monthly \"Art Hop!\"\n"}
{"id": "28740378", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28740378", "title": "LMN Architects", "text": "LMN Architects\n\nLMN is an American architecture firm based in Seattle, Washington. The company was founded in 1979, and provides planning and design services to create convention centers, cultural arts venues, higher education facilities, commercial and mixed-use developments.\n\nLMN has been published in \"On the Right Track\" in \"The Architect's Newspaper\", as well as in \"Vancouver Convention Centre Pushes Limit on Green Design,\" from Contract Design Magazine, \"Advancing Data-Driven Approach to Architecture\" in the Metropolis Magazine, and the \"Seattle Times\" its contribution to the Seattle Public Library.\n\nThe firm has received over 100 awards in the past 10 years. Most recently, LMN's work on the Vancouver Convention Centre West was awarded Sustainable Building of the Year from World Architecture News. The firm was also awarded 2012 Regional Firm of the Year by the American Institute of Architects (AIA) Northwest & Pacific Region as well as Chicago Athenaeum American Architecture award. A few other awards the firm has earned are:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "43284740", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43284740", "title": "List of cattle herd books", "text": "List of cattle herd books\n\nThis is a list of cattle herd books (breed registries) recognised as authoritative for their breed.\n"}
{"id": "54223877", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54223877", "title": "List of people on the United States cover of Rolling Stone (2010s)", "text": "List of people on the United States cover of Rolling Stone (2010s)\n\nThis is a list of people (real or fictional) appearing on the cover of \"Rolling Stone\" magazine in the 2010s. This list is for the regular biweekly issues of the magazine, including variant covers, and does not include special issues. Issue numbers that include a slash (XXX/YYY) are combined double issues.\n\n"}
{"id": "52888", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52888", "title": "Logo", "text": "Logo\n\nA logo (abbreviation of logotype, from and ) is a graphic mark, emblem, or symbol used to aid and promote public identification and recognition. It may be of an abstract or figurative design or include the text of the name it represents as in a wordmark.\n\nIn the days of hot metal typesetting, a logotype was one word cast as a single piece of type (e.g. \"The\" in ATF Garamond), as opposed to a ligature, which is two or more letters joined, but not forming a word. By extension, the term was also used for a uniquely set and arranged typeface or colophon. At the level of mass communication and in common usage, a company's logo is today often synonymous with its trademark or brand.\n\nNumerous inventions and techniques have contributed to the contemporary logo, including cylinder seals (c. 2300 BCE), coins (c. 600 BCE), trans-cultural diffusion of logographic languages, coats of arms, watermarks, silver hallmarks, and the development of printing technology.\n\nAs the industrial revolution converted western societies from agrarian to industrial in the 18th and 19th centuries, photography and lithography contributed to the boom of an advertising industry that integrated typography and imagery together on the page. Simultaneously, typography itself was undergoing a revolution of form and expression that expanded beyond the modest, serif typefaces used in books, to bold, ornamental typefaces used on broadsheet posters.\n\nThe arts were expanding in purpose—from expression and decoration of an artistic, storytelling nature, to a differentiation of brands and products that the growing middle classes were consuming. Consultancies and trades-groups in the commercial arts were growing and organizing; by 1890, the US had 700 lithographic printing firms employing more than 8,000 people. Artistic credit tended to be assigned to the lithographic company, as opposed to the individual artists who usually performed less important jobs.\nInnovators in the visual arts and lithographic process—such as French printing firm Rouchon in the 1840s, Joseph Morse of New York in the 1850s, Frederick Walker of England in the 1870s, and Jules Chéret of France in the 1870s—developed an illustrative style that went beyond tonal, representational art to figurative imagery with sections of bright, flat colors. Playful children’s books, authoritative newspapers, and conversational periodicals developed their own visual and editorial styles for unique, expanding audiences. As printing costs decreased, literacy rates increased, and visual styles changed, the Victorian decorative arts led to an expansion of typographic styles and methods of representing businesses.\n\nThe Arts and Crafts Movement of late-19th century, partially in response to the excesses of Victorian typography, aimed to restore an honest sense of craftsmanship to the mass-produced goods of the era. A renewal of interest in craftsmanship and quality also provided the artists and companies with a greater interest in credit, leading to the creation of unique logos and marks.\n\nBy the 1950s, Modernism had shed its roots as an avant-garde artistic movement in Europe to become an international, commercialized movement with adherents in the United States and elsewhere. The visual simplicity and conceptual clarity that were the hallmarks of Modernism as an artistic movement formed a powerful toolset for a new generation of graphic designers whose logos embodied Ludwig Mies van der Rohe’s dictum, \"Less is more.\" Modernist-inspired logos proved successful in the era of mass visual communication ushered in by television, improvements in printing technology, and digital innovations.\n\nThe current era of logo design began in the 1870s with the first abstract logo, the Bass red triangle. , many corporations, products, brands, services, agencies, and other entities use an ideogram (sign, icon) or an emblem (symbol) or a combination of sign and emblem as a logo. As a result, only a few of the thousands of ideograms in circulation are recognizable without a name. An effective logo may consist of both an ideogram and the company name (logotype) to emphasize the name over the graphic, and employ a unique design via the use of letters, colors, and additional graphic elements.\n\nIdeograms and symbols may be more effective than written names (logotypes), especially for logos translated into many alphabets in increasingly globalized markets. For instance, a name written in Arabic script might have little resonance in most European markets. By contrast, ideograms keep the general proprietary nature of a product in both markets. In non-profit areas, the Red Cross (varied as the Red Crescent in Muslim countries and as the Red Star of David in Israel) exemplifies a well-known emblem that does not need an accompanying name. The red cross and red crescent are among the best-recognized symbols in the world. National Red Cross and Red Crescent Societies and their Federation as well as the International Committee of the Red Cross include these symbols in their logos.\n\nBranding can aim to facilitate cross-language marketing. Consumers and potential consumers can identify the Coca-Cola name written in different alphabets because of the standard color and \"ribbon wave\" design of its logo. The text was written in Spencerian Script, which was a popular writing style when the Coca Cola Logo was being designed.\n\nSince a logo is the visual entity signifying an organization, logo design is an important area of graphic design. A logo is the central element of a complex identification system that must be functionally extended to all communications of an organization. Therefore, the design of logos and their incorporation in a visual identity system is one of the most difficult and important areas of graphic design. Logos fall into three classifications (which can be combined). Ideographs, such as Chase Bank, are completely abstract forms; pictographs are iconic, representational designs; logotypes (or wordmarks) depict the name or company initials. Because logos are meant to represent companies' brands or corporate identities and foster their immediate customer recognition, it is counterproductive to frequently redesign logos.\n\nThe logo design profession has substantially increased in numbers over the years since the rise of the Modernist movement in the United States in the 1950s. Three designers are widely considered the pioneers of that movement and of logo and corporate identity design: The first is Chermayeff & Geismar, which is the firm responsible for a large number of iconic logos, such as Chase Bank (1964), Mobil Oil (1965), PBS (1984), NBC (1986), National Geographic (2003), and others. Due to the simplicity and boldness of their designs, many of their earlier logos are still in use today. The firm recently designed logos for the Library of Congress and the fashion brand Armani Exchange. Another pioneer of corporate identity design is Paul Rand, who was one of the originators of the Swiss Style of graphic design. He designed many posters and corporate identities, including the famous logos for IBM, UPS, and ABC. The third pioneer of corporate identity design is Saul Bass. Bass was responsible for several recognizable logos in North America, including both the Bell Telephone logo (1969) and successor AT&T Corporation globe (1983). Other well-known designs were Continental Airlines (1968), Dixie (1969), and United Way (1972). Later, he would produce logos for a number of Japanese companies as well.\nAn important development in the documentation of logo design is the study of French trademarks by historian Edith Amiot and philosopher Jean Louis Azizollah.\n\nColor is a key element in logo design and plays an important role in brand differentiation. The importance of color in this context is due to the mechanics of human visual perception wherein color and contrast play critical roles in visual detail detection. In addition, we tend to acquire various color connotations and color associations through social and cultural conditioning, and these play a role in how we decipher and evaluate logo color. While color is considered important to brand recognition and logo design, it shouldn't conflict with logo functionality, and it needs to be remembered that color connotations and associations are not consistent across all social and cultural groups. For example, in the United States, red, white, and blue are often used in logos for companies that want to project patriotic feelings but other countries will have different sets of colors that evoke national pride. \n\nChoosing an organisation's logo's color is an important decision because of its long term implications and its role in creating differentiation among competitors' logos. A methodology for identifying potential logo colors within an industry sector is color mapping, whereby existing logo colors are systematically identified, mapped, and evaluated (O'Connor, 2011).\n\nDesigning a good logo often requires involvement from a marketing team teaming with the graphic design studio. Before a logo is designed, there must be a clear definition of the concept and values of the brand as well as understanding of the consumer or target group. Broad steps in the logo design process include research, conceptualization, investigation of alternative candidates, refinement of a chosen design, testing across products, and finally adoption and production of the chosen mark.\n\nIn 1898, the French tire manufacturer Michelin introduced the Michelin Man, a cartoon figure presented in many different contexts, such as eating, drinking, and playing sports. By the early 21st century, large corporations such as MTV, Nickelodeon, Google, Morton Salt, and Saks Fifth Avenue had adopted \"dynamic logos\" that change over time from setting to setting.\n\nA company that uses logotypes (wordmarks) may desire a logo that matches the firm's Internet address. For short logotypes consisting of two or three characters, multiple companies are found to employ the same letters. A \"CA\" logo, for example, is used by the French bank Credit Agricole, the Dutch clothing retailer C&A, and the US software corporation CA Technologies, but only one can have the Internet domain name CA.com.\n\nIn today's digital interface adaptive world, a logo will be formatted and re-formatted from large monitors to small handheld devices. With the constant size change and re-formatting, logo designers are shifting to a more bold and simple approach, with heavy lines and shapes, and solid colors. This reduces the confusion when mingled with other logos in tight spaces and when scaled between media. Social networks like Twitter, Facebook, LinkedIn, and Google+ use such logos.\n\nLogos and their design may be protected by copyright, via various intellectual property organisations worldwide which make available application procedures to register a design to give it protection at law. For example, in the UK, the Intellectual Property Office (United Kingdom) govern registered designs, patents, and trademarks. Ordinarily, the trademark registration will not 'make claim' to colors used, meaning it is the visual design that will be protected, even if it is reproduced in a variety of other colors or backgrounds.\n\nFor many teams, a logo or \"crest\" is an important way to recognize a team's history and can intimidate opponents.\nFor certain teams, the logo and color scheme are synonymous with the team's players. For example, Manchester United, the Toronto Maple Leafs, or New York Yankees all have a recognizable logo that can be identified by any fan of the respective sport.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "144863", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=144863", "title": "Margaret Booth", "text": "Margaret Booth\n\nMargaret Booth (January 16, 1898 – October 28, 2002) was an American film editor.\n\nBorn in Los Angeles, she started her Hollywood career as a 'patcher', editing films by D. W. Griffith, around 1915. Her brother was actor Elmer Booth. Later she worked for Louis B. Mayer when he was an independent film producer. When Mayer merged with others to form Metro-Goldwyn-Mayer in 1924, she worked as a director's assistant with that company. She edited several films starring Greta Garbo, including \"Camille\" (1936).\n\nBooth edited such diverse films as \"Wise Girls\" (1929), \"Mutiny on the Bounty\" (1935, for which she was nominated for an Academy Award), \"A Yank at Oxford\" (1938), \"The Way We Were\" (1973), \"The Sunshine Boys\" (1975), \"The Goodbye Girl\" (1977), \"The Cheap Detective\" (1978), and \"Seems Like Old Times\" (1980). She was supervising editor and associate producer on several films for producer Ray Stark, culminating with executive producer credit on \"The Slugger's Wife\" (1985) when she was 87 years old.\n\nHowever, her list of official credits represents just a fraction of Booth's film work. In her role as MGM's Supervising Film Editor from 1939 to 1968, the Village Voice described her as \"the final authority of every picture the studio made for 30 years.\" Upon her death, the Guardian wrote, \"All the filmmakers had to go through her in order to have a final editing of sound and vision approved,\" while describing her approach:\n\nShe received an Academy Honorary Award from the Academy of Motion Picture Arts and Sciences in 1978 for her work in film editing. She is the second longest-lived person (after Luise Rainer) to have been given an Oscar. In 1983, she was awarded the Women in Film Crystal Award for outstanding women who, through their endurance and the excellence of their work, have helped to expand the role of women within the entertainment industry.\n\nIn 1990, Booth was honored with the American Cinema Editors Career Achievement Award. She died in 2002, aged 104, from complications of a stroke she suffered. She is interred at Inglewood Park Cemetery, Inglewood California.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "38167192", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38167192", "title": "Margarita Perveņecka", "text": "Margarita Perveņecka\n\nMargarita Perveņecka (born 16 January 1976 in Riga) is a Latvian playwright and prose writer. Her works have been performed in numerous Latvian theatres, and are noted for displaying an unusual view of the world, poetic expression, foreign words, science terms and neologisms, creating an alienated society. She received the Literatūras gada balva (Literature award) in 2011 for her novel, \"Gaetano Krematoss\".\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2218292", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2218292", "title": "Master electrician", "text": "Master electrician\n\nIn theatre, the master electrician (or chief electrician in the UK) is responsible for implementing the lighting design for a production drawn up by the lighting designer. This involves overseeing the preparation, hanging, connection and focusing of stage lighting fixtures.\n\nThis can be done on a show-by-show basis, or as a resident position of a specific theatre. The tool of the trade of the theatrical master electrician is the adjustable spanner or crescent wrench, used to secure stage lighting instruments from lighting positions in the theatre. This wrench is typically attached to the belt or wrist with a lanyard, which is important because the master electrician tends to work at great height, from ladders, lift tables, catwalks, or lighting trusses, where a falling wrench may hurt people or damage property below.\n\nThe master electrician supervises and is responsible for all other electricians working on any construction or installation project. Only the master electrician can pull the permits with the electrical authority, and they can only be registered with one electrical contracting company at any one time.\nOther electrical duties performed by any electrician include:\n\nMaster electricians go through extensive on-site and classroom training, with work in more formal settings such as schools or colleges. The designation \"master\" is only given to electricians who can display extensive job knowledge and are tested to have an extensive understanding of the electrical safety code.\n\nThere are no formal certifications of the \"theatrical title, master electrician\", as there are in some of the more mainstream trades, but in March 2003 ESTA, which merged with PLASA in 2010, developed a certification process. Those who pass this rigorous test will become ETCP Certified Entertainment Electricians - and will be recognized as the industry's best. The stagehands union, IATSE, come close in that they offer apprentice and journeyman levels of certification. In the future, IATSE, or some of the larger local affiliations may form a more formal method of certification, which may include the title of master electrician. In the meantime, almost every production, from high school shows to Broadway uses the term to describe their primary electrician, regardless of their skill level or experience.\n"}
{"id": "18761837", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18761837", "title": "Mediology", "text": "Mediology\n\nMediology (French: \"médiologie\"), broadly indicates a wide-ranging method for the analysis of cultural transmission in society and across societies, a method which challenges the conventional idea that 'technology is not culture'. The mediological method pays specific attention to the role of organisations and technical innovations, and the ways in which these can ensure the potency of cultural transmission - and thus the transformation of ideas into a civilisational worldview capable of sustained action.\n\nThe term was first coined and introduced in French as \"médiologie\" by the French intellectual Régis Debray in the \"Teachers, Writers, Celebrities\" section of his book \"Le pouvoir intellectuel en France\", (Editions Ramsay, 1979). The English form of the term became more widely known and respected in the English-speaking world with the publication of the key text on mediology in English, Debray's \"Transmitting Culture\" (University of Columbia Press, 2004). Mediology was taught for the first time in the Sorbonne (Paris) in 2007.\n\nThe practice of mediology is not a science, and thus is able to range across academic disciplines. The main areas involved are those of longitudinal history (the history of technologies, the history of the book, the histories and theories of aesthetics) and also research in communications and information theory.\n\nMediology is not a narrow specialist area of contemporary academic knowledge (as media sociology is), nor does it aspire to be a precise science of signs (as semiotics does). It differs from the models put forward by communication studies, in that its focus is not isolated individuals and a fleeting few moments of communication. Instead mediologists study the cultural transmission of religions, ideologies, the arts and political ideas in society, and across societies, over a time period that is usually to be measured in months, decades or millennia. Debray argues that mediology \"would like to bring to light the function of medium in all its forms, over a long time span - since the birth of writing. And without becoming obsessed by today's media.\"\n\nMediology must thus closely examine the methods used for the memorising, transmission, and displacement of cultural knowledge in any milieu. But it must balance its understanding of these with an equally close study of our individual modes of belief, thoughts, and competing social organisations. Mediology must further understand that such transmission is not simply happening within a lofty linguistic or textual discourse, but that transmission takes an equally valid concrete form in which \"material technologies and symbolic forms\" combine to produce things such as rituals, architecture, flags, special sites, customs, typefaces and book bindings, smells and sounds, bodily gestures and postures, all of which have a potent anchoring role in cultural transmission among ordinary people.\n\nDebray further points to the need to consider the role in transmission of all manner of non-media technical-cultural inventions, especially those of new forms of transportation. He gives the historical example of the bicycle, which he suggests was historically associated with: the rise of a democratic rational individualism; a new role for women in advanced societies; and the new kinetic ideas expressed in early modernist art and cinema.\n\nA mediologist might thus make an examination \"within a system\" (e.g. of systems of book production, of authors and publishers), or of \"the interaction between systems\" (e.g. how painting and early photography influenced each other), or even of \"the interactions across systems\" (e.g. the ways in which symbolic transmission of systematic knowledge is brought to intersect with the material history of actual transportation - such as desert trading routes and ancient religion, telegraph and railroad, the radio and airplanes, television and satellites, mobile phones and cars).\n\nDebray is generally critical of some of the ideas of Marshall McLuhan (whom he sees as being overly technologically determinist), and of the French sociologist Pierre Bourdieu. He also tries to step beyond Antonio Gramsci, in that he suggests that an ideology cannot be comprehended in ideological terms alone.\n\nCriticisms of mediology in English so far have been found in two short book reviews and one article. The first, by the screenwriter Yvette Bíró (\"Wide Angle\" magazine, Vol.18, No.1, January 1996), was a four-page book review of Debray's \"Vie et Mort de l'Image\", in which she claimed to have discerned \"traces of a strong, vulgar Marxist school of thought\".\n\nThe second review, by Pramod Nayor of the University of Hyderabad (\"Journal for Cultural and Religious Theory\", Vol.8, No.1, Winter 2006) was a review of the English translation of \"Transmitting Culture\" (2004). In concluding the review Nayor notes the similarities of some aspects and directions of mediology to Birmingham School cultural studies ranging from \"Raymond Williams through Stuart Hall\". Nayor also notes that recent philosophers and historians of science - he cites Bruno Latour, Eugene Thacker and Dwight Atkinson - have also examined science in relation to \"intersecting cultural, ethnic, economic and iconographic 'bases' of the transmission of culture\"\n\nAn article by Steven Maris in \"Fibreculture\" No.12 similarly suggests that Debray is too firmly embedded in \"the French academic scene\" and that thus \"Debray's explicit engagement with other national scholarly traditions of media, communications and cultural studies in the works mentioned above is minimal\". Maris also notes that mediology \"predates much of the [current academic] interest in networked cultures and new media\".\n\nPhysicists Alan Sokal and Jean Bricmont have criticized Debray's work for using Gödel's theorem as a metaphor without understanding its basic ideas, in their book \"Fashionable Nonsense\". Debray engaged in dialogue with Bricmont in a 2003 book titled \"À l'ombre des lumières : Débat entre un philosophe et un scientifique\", which so far has not been translated into English.\n\nDespite such criticisms, the six-volume \"New Dictionary of the History of Ideas\" (2004) wrote of Debray that \"His achievement is to have synthesized these earlier arguments into a practice with a powerful political project ahead of it.\" (Vol.4, page 1394).\n\n\n"}
{"id": "789667", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=789667", "title": "Micrography", "text": "Micrography\n\nMicrography (from Greek, literally small-writing – \"Μικρογραφία\"), also called microcalligraphy, is a Jewish form of calligrams developed in the 9th century, with parallels in Christianity and Islam, utilizing minute Hebrew letters to form representational, geometric and abstract designs. Colored micrography is especially distinctive because these rare artworks are customarily rendered in black and white.\n\nThe artwork is created from text that forms an image when viewed at a distance, creating an interplay between the text and image. The photomosaic, whose tiny individual images form a mosaic when viewed from a distance, is a modern analogue.\n\nThere is a relationship between this form of art, employing both digital and analogic symbols, and the restrictions on images found in the second commandment. Micrography provides a unique solution to the visual artist who wishes to remain devout in observation of Jewish law, by using only text, not images per se. As similar restrictions exist in certain Muslim societies, this solution has been adapted in Islamic calligraphy to the Arabic alphabet as well.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "56732298", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56732298", "title": "Ministry of Tourism and Arts", "text": "Ministry of Tourism and Arts\n\nThe Ministry of Tourism and Arts is a ministry in Zambia. It is headed by the Minister of Tourism and Arts.\n\nIn 2002 the Ministry of Tourism was merged with the Ministry of Environment and Natural Resources to form the Ministry of Tourism, Environment and Natural Resources. However, Tourism was later merged into the Foreign Affairs ministry. In 2011 Tourism was split out from the Foreign ministry and merged with the Art portfolio to form the Ministry of Tourism and Arts.\n\nThe ministry oversees several statutory bodies, including the Hotels Board of Management, the Hotels Managers Registration Council, the National Arts Council, the National Heritage Conservation Commission, the National Museum Board, the Zambia Institute for Tourism and Hospitality Studies and the Zambia Tourism Agency.\n\n"}
{"id": "41527708", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41527708", "title": "Ofakim Hadashim", "text": "Ofakim Hadashim\n\nOfakim Hadashim (\"New Horizons\") is an art movement started in Tel Aviv in 1942.\n\nThe Ofakim Hadashim art movement began with a group of artists who mounted an exhibition in Tel Aviv's Habima national theater in December 1942, under the name \"The Group of Eight\". The group evolved into a coherent artistic movement only after the founding of the state of Israel in 1948. Members of the school included Arie Aroch, Zvi Meirowitch, Avraham Naton (Natanson), Avigdor Stematsky and Yehezkel Streichman. The work of sculptor Dov Feigin also appeared in the catalog of the 1942 exhibition, though it was not displayed. In February 1947 five of the original members of the group joined Joseph Zaritsky for an exhibit called \"The Group of Seven\" at the Tel Aviv Museum of Art. Members of the group stated that \"The group is based in modernism, especially French, yet seeks a unique style that expresses our own reality\".\n\nFor these artists, this was not only a statement of philosophy, but a practical work plan. Zaritsky, who served as chairman of the League of Painters and Sculptors in the Land of Israel, opposed the league's philosophy of equality among artists. In 1948, at the time of the opening of the artists' house that was to become the League's permanent home, he was delegated to select works for the Bienniale in Venice. His selections caused such an outrage among the members that he was ousted from his position. He walked out with a group of artists, and founded an alternative movement, the \"New Horizons\". On 9 November 1948, the Tel Aviv Museum of Art opened the first exhibit bearing the movement's name. Among the artists showing were Pinchas Abramovich, Marcel Janco, Aharon Kahana, Yohanan Simon, Avshalom Okashi and Moshe Castel, as well as movement founders Zaritsky, Streichman and Feigin.\n\nThe group sought a style that reflected the striving for Zionism and Modernism. This style was largely dictated by the leading artists of the group - Zaritsky, Stematsky Mairovich and Streichman. In practice, this style was a variant of European modernism. The style has been called \"lyrical abstract\", but in fact, there was little purely abstract art, but rather works rooted in the local visual landscape. This essentially figurative style was pushed toward the abstract by bold brush strokes, and a strong use of bright colors typical of the \"Land of Israel\" style, reflecting the strong Mediterranean light. Formats were generally rather small, and the style was similar to European abstract art before the second World War, akin to the art of Wassily Kandinsky, and unlike the abstract art prevalent in the United States at the time.\n\nFor example, in his series \"Yehiam\" (1949–1952), Zaritsky depicts scenes from the establishment of Kibbutz Yehiam in northern Israel. The early paintings in this series (mostly watercolors) depict the natural landscapes of the region, while the later paintings are (mostly oil) abstractions of these earlier scenes. This progression, contends art critic and curator Mordecai Omer, reflects Zaritsky's belief that external visual reality is the basis of artistic originality.\n\nZvi Meirovich, a prominent members of Okakim Hadashim he painted in the abstract lyric style but unlike his colleagues Mairovich was more inclined to a German rather than a French pallette. Hs bold use of black and reds particularly in the gouaches. The big breakthrough was in oil pastels, that only he made in large format. Using a deep space photo surface rather than a flat paper was pioneering moment.\n\nOthers in the group, however, deviated from this style. Marcel Janco, of international fame for his involvement in the Dada movement in Europe in the 1930s, did not adopt this approach to abstraction; rather his art uses European Cubist and Expressionist styles to create a Jewish-Zionist narrative. Moshe Castel, also, went through a transformation during the 1950s from abstraction to expressionism characteristic of the Canaanist movement.\n\nIn the field of sculpture, the group introduced new media. Yechiel Shemi, Dov Feigin, and, after a sojourn in Britain, Itzhak Danziger, introduced welded steel as a new medium. This new form freed these artists from the figurative character of stone and wood carving, for a more purely abstract oeuvre. Here, too, however, there is frequent reference to the Canaanite figurativeness and symbolism.\n\nIndeed, during the 1950s, the \"New Horizons\" group tended more and more toward the abstract, and away from reliance on the figurative. Zaritsky led this shift, which was rooted in what he saw as a guiding ideology. Some members of the group, however, rejected this ideology, and eventually quit the movement. These included Janco, Aharon Kahana and Yehiel Simon.\n\nWhile the abstract and secular works of the New Horizons group had profound influence on the course of art in Israel, they were nonetheless considered at the time to be on the fringes of mainstream art, which was mostly figurative and often bearing explicit Jewish and Zionist messages. This explicitly nationalist trend in Israeli art was denounced by its opponents as \"regionalism\". New Horizon critics, who maintained that art was international and universal, were opposed by the ideology of the Bezalel School at the time. Mordechai Ardon, head of Bezalel, wrote in 1954, \"Every artist, like every citizen, must serve his country in heart and in soul\". \n\nNew Horizons artists, too, despite their avowed adherence to a philosophy of universality, often expressed in their works sentiments of nationalism, Zionism, and socialism. For example, Zaritsky, one of the leading ideologues of the universalist school, produced series of paintings focusing on Israeli kibbutzim - his series \"Yehiam\", and a similar series on Naan (a kibbutz in central Israel), 1950–1952. Both these series include abstractions of the Israeli landscape. Zvi Meirovich one of the founders of New Horizons produced a series of large oil paintings called Mizpe Ramon focusing on the Israeli deseret. Sculptor Dov Feigin produced \"Wheat Sheaves\" in 1956, and Dadaist Janco painted \"Soldiers\", \"Air raid Alarms\" and \"Maabarot\" (jerry-built communities housing new Jewish immigrants in the 1950s). Some of the New Horizons artists belonged to the \"Center for Advanced Culture\" run by the Socialist-Zionist youth movement \"Hashomer Hatzair\". This activity culminated in the founding of the artists' village Ein Harod by a group of artists headed by Janco. There, Janco hoped to found a new socialist and artistic utopia.\n\nMordechai Ardon's work stands out from that of other New Horizons artists for dealing with the mystical and historical, rather than concentrating on the present. His canvases often depict episodes from Jewish history, from Biblical scenes to the Holocaust. In 1965 Raffi Lavie founded a group called \"10+\", which sought an alternative to the \"lyric abstraction\" of the New Horizons group.\n\n\nSource\n\n\n"}
{"id": "67505", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=67505", "title": "Palais Garnier", "text": "Palais Garnier\n\nThe Palais Garnier ( French ) is a 1,979-seat opera house, which was built from 1861 to 1875 for the Paris Opera. It was called the Salle des Capucines, because of its location on the Boulevard des Capucines in the 9th arrondissement of Paris, but soon became known as the Palais Garnier, in recognition of its opulence and its architect, Charles Garnier. The theatre is also often referred to as the Opéra Garnier ( French ) and historically was known as the Opéra de Paris or simply the Opéra, as it was the primary home of the Paris Opera and its associated Paris Opera Ballet until 1989, when the Opéra Bastille opened at the Place de la Bastille. The Paris Opera now mainly uses the Palais Garnier for ballet.\n\nThe Palais Garnier has been called \"probably the most famous opera house in the world, a symbol of Paris like Notre Dame Cathedral, the Louvre, or the Sacré Coeur Basilica.\" This is at least partly due to its use as the setting for Gaston Leroux's 1910 novel \"The Phantom of the Opera\" and, especially, the novel's subsequent adaptations in films and the popular 1986 musical. Another contributing factor is that among the buildings constructed in Paris during the Second Empire, besides being the most expensive, it has been described as the only one that is \"unquestionably a masterpiece of the first rank.\"\nThis opinion is far from unanimous however: the 20th-century French architect Le Corbusier once described it as \"a lying art\" and contended that the \"Garnier movement is a décor of the grave\".\n\nThe Palais Garnier also houses the Bibliothèque-Musée de l'Opéra de Paris (Paris Opera Library-Museum), although the Library-Museum is no longer managed by the Opera and is part of the Bibliothèque Nationale de France. The museum is included in unaccompanied tours of the Palais Garnier.\n\nThe opera was constructed in what Garnier himself is said to have told the Empress Eugenie was \"Napoleon III\" The Napoleon III style was highly eclectic, and borrowed from many historical sources; the opera house included elements from the Baroque, the classicism of Palladio, and Renaissance architecture, artfully blended together. These were combined with axial symmetry and modern techniques and materials, including the use of an iron framework, which had been pioneered in other Napoleon III buildings, including the Bibliotheque Nationale and the markets of Les Halles.\n\nThe facade and the interior followed the Napoleon III style principle of leaving no space without decoration. Garnier used polychromy, or a variety of colors, for theatrical effect, achieved different varieties of marble and stone, porphyry, and gilded bronze. The facade of the Opera used seventeen different kinds of material, arranged in very elaborate multicolored marble friezes, columns, and lavish statuary, many of which portray deities of Greek mythology. \nThe principal facade is on the south side of the building, overlooking the Place de l'Opéra and terminates the perspective along the Avenue de l'Opéra. Fourteen painters, mosaicists and seventy-three sculptors participated in the creation of its ornamentation.\n\nThe two gilded figural groups, Charles Gumery's \"L'Harmonie\" (Harmony) and \"La Poésie\" (Poetry), crown the apexes of the principal facade's left and right avant-corps. They are both made of gilt copper electrotype.\n\nThe bases of the two avant-corps are decorated (from left to right) with four major multi-figure groups sculpted by François Jouffroy (\"Poetry\", also known as \"Harmony\"), Jean-Baptiste Claude Eugène Guillaume (\"Instrumental Music\"), Jean-Baptiste Carpeaux (\"The Dance\", criticised for indecency), and Jean-Joseph Perraud (\"Lyrical Drama\"). The facade also incorporates other work by Gumery, Alexandre Falguière, and others.\n\nGilded galvanoplastic bronze busts of many of the great composers are located between the columns of the theatre's front façade and depict, from left to right, Rossini, Auber, Beethoven, Mozart, Spontini, Meyerbeer, and Halévy. On the left and right lateral returns of the front facade are busts of the librettists Eugène Scribe and Philippe Quinault, respectively.\n\nThe sculptural group \"Apollo, Poetry, and Music\", located at the apex of the south gable of the stage flytower, is the work of Aimé Millet, and the two smaller bronze Pegasus figures at either end of the south gable are by Eugène-Louis Lequesne.\n\nAlso known as the Rotonde de l'Empereur, this group of rooms is located on the left (west) side of the building and was designed to allow secure and direct access by the Emperor via a double ramp to the building. When the Empire fell, work stopped, leaving unfinished dressed stonework. It now houses the Bibliothèque-Musée de l'Opéra de Paris (Paris Opera Library-Museum) which is home to nearly 600,000 documents including 100,000 books, 1,680 periodicals, 10,000 programs, letters, 100,000 photographs, sketches of costumes and sets, posters and historical administrative records.\n\nLocated on the right (east) side of the building as a counterpart to the Pavillon de l'Empereur, this pavilion was designed to allow subscribers (\"abonnés\") direct access from their carriages to the interior of the building. It is covered by a 13.5-metre diameter dome. Paired obelisks mark the entrances to the rotunda on the north and the south.\n\nThe interior consists of interweaving corridors, stairwells, alcoves and landings, allowing the movement of large numbers of people and space for socialising during intermission. Rich with velvet, gold leaf, and cherubim and nymphs, the interior is characteristic of Baroque sumptuousness.\n\nThe building features a large ceremonial staircase of white marble with a balustrade of red and green marble, which divides into two divergent flights of stairs that lead to the Grand Foyer. Its design was inspired by Victor Louis's grand staircase for the Théâtre de Bordeaux. The pedestals of the staircase are decorated with female torchères, created by Albert-Ernest Carrier-Belleuse. The ceiling above the staircase was painted by Isidore Pils to depict \"The Triumph of Apollo\", \"The Enchantment of Music Deploying its Charms\", \"Minerva Fighting Brutality Watched by the Gods of Olympus\", and \"The City of Paris Receiving the Plan of the New Opéra\". When the paintings were first fixed in place two months before the opening of the building, it was obvious to Garnier that they were too dark for the space. With the help of two of his students, Pils had to rework the canvases while they were in place overhead on the ceiling and, at the age of 61, he fell ill. His students had to finish the work, which was completed the day before the opening and the scaffolding was removed.\n\nThis hall, 18 meters high, 154 meters long and 13 meters wide, was designed to act as a drawing room for Paris society. It was restored in 2004. Its ceiling was painted by Paul-Jacques-Aimé Baudry and represents various moments in the history of music. The foyer opens onto an outside loggia and is flanked by two octagonal salons with ceilings painted by Jules-Élie Delaunay in the eastern salon and Félix-Joseph Barrias in the western salon. The octagonal salons open to the north into the Salon de la Lune at the western end of the Avant-Foyer and the Salon du Soleil at its eastern end.\n\nThe auditorium has a traditional Italian horseshoe shape and can seat 1,979. The stage is the largest in Europe and can accommodate as many as 450 artists. The canvas house curtain was painted to represent a draped curtain, complete with tassels and braid.\n\nThe ceiling area which surrounds the chandelier was originally painted by Jules Eugène Lenepveu.\nIn 1964 a new ceiling painted by Marc Chagall was installed on a removable frame over the original. It depicts scenes from operas by 14 composers – Mussorgsky, Mozart, Wagner, Berlioz, Rameau, Debussy, Ravel, Stravinsky, Tchaikovsky, Adam, Bizet, Verdi, Beethoven, and Gluck. Although praised by some, others feel Chagall's work creates \"a false note in Garnier's carefully orchestrated interior.\"\n\nThe seven-ton bronze and crystal chandelier was designed by Garnier. Jules Corboz prepared the model, and it was cast and chased by Lacarière, Delatour & Cie. The total cost came to 30,000 gold francs. The use of a central chandelier aroused controversy, and it was criticised for obstructing views of the stage by patrons in the fourth level boxes and views of the ceiling painted by Eugène Lenepveu. Garnier had anticipated these disadvantages but provided a lively defence in his 1871 book \"Le Théâtre\": \"What else could fill the theatre with such joyous life? Who else could offer the variety of forms that we have in the pattern of the flames, in these groups and tiers of points of light, these wild hues of gold flecked with bright spots, and these crystalline highlights?\"\n\nOn 20 May 1896, one of the chandelier's counterweights broke free and burst through the ceiling into the auditorium, killing a concierge. This incident inspired one of the more famous scenes in Gaston Leroux's classic 1910 gothic novel \"The Phantom of the Opera\".\n\nOriginally the chandelier was raised up through the ceiling into the cupola over the auditorium for cleaning, but now it is lowered. The space in the cupola was used in the 1960s for opera rehearsals, and in the 1980s was remodelled into two floors of dance rehearsal space. The lower floor consists of the Salle Nureïev (Nureyev) and the Salle Balanchine, and the upper floor, the Salle Petipa.\n\nThe grand organ was built by Aristide Cavaillé-Coll for use during lyrical works. It has been out of service for several decades.\n\nGarnier had originally planned to install a restaurant in the opera house; however, for budgetary reasons, it was not completed in the original design.\n\nOn the third attempt to introduce it since 1875, a restaurant was opened on the eastern side of the building in 2011. L'Opéra Restaurant was designed by French architect Odile Decq. The chef was Christophe Aribert; in October 2015, Guillame Tison-Malthé became the new head chef. The restaurant, which has three different spaces and a large outside terrace, is accessible to the general public.\n\nIn 1821 the Opéra de Paris had moved into the temporary building known as the Salle Le Peletier on the . Since then a new permanent building had been desired. Charles Rohault de Fleury, who was appointed the opera's official architect in 1846, undertook various studies in suitable sites and designs. By 1847, the Prefect of the Seine, Claude-Philibert de Rambuteau, had selected a site on the east side of the Place du Palais-Royal as part of an extension of the Rue de Rivoli. However, with the Revolution of 1848, Rambuteau was dismissed, and interest in the construction of a new opera house waned. The site was later used for the Grand Hôtel du Louvre (designed in part by Charles Rohault de Fleury).\n\nWith the establishment of the Second Empire in 1852 and Georges-Eugène Haussmann's appointment as Prefect of the Seine in June 1853, interest in a new opera house revived. There was an attempted assassination of Emperor Napoleon III at the entrance to the Salle Le Peletier on 14 January 1858. The Salle Le Peletier's constricted street access highlighted the need for a separate, more secure entrance for the head of state. This concern and the inadequate facilities and temporary nature of the theatre gave added urgency to the building of a new state-funded opera house. By March Haussmann settled on Rohault de Fleury's proposed site off the Boulevard des Capucines, although this decision was not announced publicly until 1860. A new building would help resolve the awkward convergence of streets at this location, and the site was economical in terms of the cost of land.\nOn 29 September 1860 an imperial decree officially designated the site for the new Opéra, which would eventually occupy . By November 1860 Rohault de Fleury had completed the design for what he thought would be the crowning work of his career and was also working on a commission from the city to design the facades of the other buildings lining the new square to ensure they were in harmony. However that same month Achille Fould was replaced as minister of state by Count Alexandre Colonna-Walewski. His wife Marie Anne de Ricci Poniatowska had used her position as mistress of Napoleon III to obtain her husband's appointment. Aware of competing designs and under pressure to give the commission to Viollet-le-Duc, who had the support of Empress Eugénie, Walewski escaped the need to make a decision by proposing to mount an architectural design competition to select the architect.\n\nOn 30 December 1860 the Second Empire of Emperor Napoleon III officially announced an architectural design competition for the design of the new opera house.\n\nApplicants were given a month to submit entries. There were two phases to the competition. Charles Garnier's project was one of about 170 submitted in the first phase. Each of the entrants were required to submit a motto that summarised their design. Garnier's was the quote \"Bramo assai, poco spero\" (\"desire for much, hope for little\") from the Italian poet Torquato Tasso.\nGarnier's project was awarded the fifth-place prize, and he became one of seven finalists selected for the second phase. In addition to Garnier, among the others were his friend Leon Ginain, Alphonse-Nicolas Crépinet and Joseph-Louis Duc (who subsequently withdrew due to other commitments). To the surprise of many, both Viollet-le-Duc and Charles Rohault de Fleury missed out.\n\nViollet-de-Duc's losing Opera Competition project of 1861\nThe second phase required the contestants to revise their original projects and was more rigorous, with a 58-page program, written by the director of the Opéra, Alphonse Royer, which the contestants received on 18 April. The new submissions were sent to the jury in the middle of May, and on 29 May 1861 Garnier's project was selected for its \"rare and superior qualities in the beautiful distribution of the plans, the monumental and characteristic aspect of the facades and sections\".\n\nGarnier's wife Louise later wrote that the French architect Alphonse de Gisors, who was on the jury, had commented to them that Garnier's project was \"remarkable in its simplicity, clarity, logic, grandeur, and because of the exterior dispositions which distinguish the plan in three distinct parts—the public spaces, auditorium, and stage ... 'you have greatly improved your project since the first competition; whereas Ginain [the first-place winner in the first phase] has ruined his.'\"\n\nLegend has it that the Emperor's wife, the Empress Eugénie, who was likely irritated that her own favoured candidate, Viollet-le-Duc, had not been selected, asked the relatively unknown Garnier: \"What is this? It's not a style; it's neither Louis Quatorze, nor Louis Quinze, nor Louis Seize!\" \"Why Ma'am, it's Napoléon Trois\" replied Garnier \"and you're complaining!\" Andrew Ayers has written that Garnier's definition \"remains undisputed, so much does the Palais Garnier seem emblematic of its time and of the Second Empire that created it. A giddy mixture of up-to-the-minute technology, rather prescriptive rationalism, exuberant eclecticism and astonishing opulence, Garnier's opera encapsulated the divergent tendencies and political and social ambitions of its era.\" Ayers goes on to say that the judges of the competition in particular admired Garnier's design for \"the clarity of his plan, which was a brilliant example of the \"beaux-arts\" design methods in which both he and they were thoroughly versed.\"\n\nAfter the initial funds to begin construction were voted on 2 July 1861, Garnier established the Opéra \"Agence\", his office on the construction site, and hired a team of architects and draftsmen. He selected as his second-in-command, Louis-Victor Louvet, followed by Jean Jourdain and Edmond Le Deschault.\n\nThe site was excavated between 27 August and 31 December. On 13 January 1862 the first concrete foundations were poured, starting at the front and progressing sequentially toward the back, with the laying of the substructure masonry beginning as soon as each section of concrete was cast. The opera house needed a much deeper basement in the substage area than other building types, but the level of the groundwater was unexpectedly high. Wells were sunk in February 1862 and eight steam pumps installed in March, but despite operating continuously 24 hours a day, the site would not dry up. To deal with this problem Garnier designed a double foundation to protect the superstructure from moisture. It incorporated a water course and an enormous concrete cistern (\"cuve\") which would both relieve the pressure of the external groundwater on the basement walls and serve as a reservoir in case of fire. A contract for its construction was signed on 20 June. Soon a persistent legend arose that the opera house was built over a subterranean lake, inspiring Gaston Leroux to incorporate the idea into his novel \"The Phantom of the Opera\". On 21 July the cornerstone was laid at the southeast angle of the building's facade. In October the pumps were removed, the brick vault of the \"cuve\" was finished by 8 November, and the substructure was essentially complete by the end of the year.\n\nThe emperor expressed an interest in seeing a model of the building, and a plaster scale model (2 cm per meter) was constructed by Louis Villeminot between April 1862 and April 1863 at a cost of more than 8,000 francs. After previewing it, the emperor requested several changes to the design of the building, the most important of which was the suppression of a balustraded terrace with corner groups at the top of the facade and its replacement with a massive attic story fronted by a continuous frieze surmounted by imperial \"quadrigae\" over the end bays.\n\nWith the incorporated changes, the model was transported over specially installed rails to the Palais de l'Industrie for public display at the 1863 exhibition. Théophile Gautier wrote of the model (\"Le Moniteur Universel\", 13 May 1863) that \"the general arrangement becomes intelligible to all eyes and already acquires a sort of reality that better permits one to prejudge the final effect ... it attracts the crowd's curiosity; it is, in effect, the new Opéra seen through reversed opera glasses.\" The model is now lost, but it was photographed by J. B. Donas in 1863.\n\nThe emperor's quadrigae were never added, although they can be seen in the model. Instead Charles-Alphonse Guméry's gilded bronze sculptural groups \"Harmony\" and \"Poetry\" were installed in 1869. The linear frieze seen in the model was also redesigned with alternating low- and high-relief decorative medallions bearing the gilded letters from the imperial monogram (\"N\" for Napoléon, \"E\" for Empereur). The custom-designed letters were not ready in time for the unveiling and were replaced with commercially available substitutes. After the fall of the empire in 1870, Garnier was relieved to be able to remove them from the medallions. Letters in Garnier's original design were finally installed during the restoration of the building in 2000.\n\nThe scaffolding concealing the facade was removed on 15 August 1867 in time for the Paris Exposition of 1867. The official title of the Paris Opera was prominently displayed on the entablature of the giant Corinthian order of coupled columns fronting the main-floor loggia: \"ACADEMIE IMPERIALE DE MUSIQUE\". When the emperor was deposed on 4 September 1870 as a result of the disastrous Franco-Prussian War, the government was replaced by the Third Republic, and almost immediately, on 17 September 1870, the Opera was renamed Théâtre National de l'Opéra, a name it kept until 1939. In spite of this, when it came time to change the name on the new opera house, only the first six letters of the word IMPERIALE were replaced, giving the now famous \"ACADEMIE NATIONALE DE MUSIQUE\", an official title which had actually only been used during the approximately two-year period of the Second Republic which had preceded the Second Empire.\n\nAll work on the building came to a halt during the Franco-Prussian War due to the siege of Paris (September 1870 – January 1871). Construction had so advanced that parts of the building could be used as a food warehouse and a hospital. After France's defeat Garnier became seriously ill from the deprivations of the siege and left Paris from March to June to recover on the Ligurian coast of Italy, while his assistant Louis Louvet remained behind during the turmoil of the Paris Commune which followed. Louvet wrote several letters to Garnier, which document events relating to the building. Because of the theatre's proximity to the fighting at the Place Vendôme, troops of the National Guard bivouacked there and were in charge of its defence and distributing food to soldiers and civilians. The Commune authorities planned to replace Garnier with another architect, but this unnamed man had not yet appeared when Republican troops ousted the National Guard and gained control over the building on 23 May. By the end of the month the Commune had been severely defeated. The Third Republic had become sufficiently well established by the fall, that on 30 September construction work recommenced, and by late October a small amount of funds were voted by the new legislature for further construction.\n\nThe political leaders of the new government maintained an intense dislike of all things associated with the Second Empire, and many of them regarded the essentially apolitical Garnier as a holdover from that regime. This was especially true during the presidency of Adolphe Thiers who remained in office until May 1873, but also persisted under his successor Marshal MacMahon. Economies were demanded, and Garnier was forced to suppress the completion of sections of the building, in particular the Pavillon de l'Empereur (which later became the home of the Opera Library Museum). However, on 28–29 October an overwhelming incentive to complete the new theatre came when the Salle Le Peletier was destroyed by a fire which raged the entire night. Garnier was immediately instructed to complete the building as soon as possible.\n\nThe cost of completion of the new house during 1874 was more than 7.5 million francs, a sum that greatly exceeded the amounts spent in any of the previous thirteen years. The cash-strapped government of the Third Republic resorted to borrowing 4.9 million gold francs at an interest rate of six percent from François Blanc, the wealthy financier who managed the Monte Carlo Casino. Subsequently (from 1876 to 1879) Garnier would oversee the design and construction of the Monte Carlo Casino concert hall, the Salle Garnier, which later became the home of the Opéra de Monte Carlo.\n\nDuring 1874 Garnier and his construction team worked feverishly to complete the new Paris opera house, and by 17 October the orchestra was able to conduct an acoustical test of the new auditorium, followed by another on 2 December which was attended by officials, guests, and members of the press. The Paris Opera Ballet danced on the stage on 12 December, and six days later the famous chandelier was lit for the first time.\n\nThe theatre was formally inaugurated on 5 January 1875 with a lavish gala performance attended by Marshal MacMahon, the Lord Mayor of London and King Alfonso XII of Spain. The program included the overtures to Auber's \"La muette de Portici\" and Rossini's \"William Tell\", the first two acts of Halévy's 1835 opera \"La Juive\" (with Gabrielle Krauss in the title role), along with \"The Consecration of the Swords\" from Meyerbeer's 1836 opera \"Les Huguenots\" and the 1866 ballet \"La source\" with music by Delibes and Minkus. As a soprano had fallen ill one act from Charles Gounod's \"Faust\" and one from Ambroise Thomas's \"Hamlet\" had to be omitted. During the intermission Garnier stepped out onto the landing of the grand staircase to receive the approving applause of the audience.\n\nIn 1881 electric lighting was installed. In the 1950s new personnel and freight elevators were installed at the rear of stage, to facilitate the movement of employees in the administration building and the moving of stage scenery.\n\nIn 1969, the theatre was given new electrical facilities and, during 1978, part of the original Foyer de la Danse was converted into new rehearsal space for the Ballet company by the architect Jean-Loup Roubert.\nDuring 1994, restoration work began on the theatre. This consisted of modernising the stage machinery and electrical facilities, while restoring and preserving the opulent décor, as well as strengthening the structure and foundation of the building. This restoration was completed in 2007.\n\nThe French Post Office has issued two postage stamps on the building:\nThe first was issued in September 1998, for the centenary of the death of Charles Garnier. It was designed by Claude Andréotto grouping elements which recall the artistic activities of the Opera Garnier: the profile of a dancer, a violin and a red curtain.\nThe second, drawn and engraved by Martin Mörck, is issued in June 2006 and represents, in intaglio, the main facade.\n\nThe building inspired many other buildings over the following thirty years.\n\nSeveral buildings in Poland were based on the design of the Palais Garnier. these include the Juliusz Słowacki Theatre in Kraków, built during 1893 and also the Warsaw Philharmony edifice in Warsaw, built between 1900 and 1901.\n\nIn Ukraine, the influence of the Palais Garnier can be seen at the National Opera House of Ukraine in Kiev, built in 1901, Lviv Theatre of Opera and Ballet in Lviv, built between 1897 and 1900.\n\nThe Thomas Jefferson Building of the Library of Congress in Washington, D.C. is modelled after the Palais Garnier, most notably the facade and Great Hall.\n\nThe Theatro Municipal do Rio de Janeiro (1909) was also modelled after Palais Garnier, particularly and Great Hall and stairs.\n\nThe Amazon Theatre in Manaus (Brazil) built from 1884 to 1896. The overview is very similar, though the decoration is simpler.\n\nThe Hanoi Opera House in Vietnam is considered to be a typical French colonial architectural monument in Vietnam, and it is also a small-scale replica of the Palais Garnier. The Saigon Opera House is a smaller counterpart.\n\nThe Legends Hotel Chennai in India is also a small scale replica of Palais Garnier, especially the Facade and statues.\n\nNotes\nSources\n\n"}
{"id": "3724262", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3724262", "title": "Shangri-La (The Kinks song)", "text": "Shangri-La (The Kinks song)\n\n\"Shangri-La\" is a song written by Ray Davies of The Kinks. The song appeared on the 1969 concept album, \"Arthur (Or the Decline and Fall of the British Empire).\" The song's inspiration can be traced back to when the band visited the Davies brothers' sister, Rose, and her family in Australia, the \"designed community\" that the family lived in serving as the initial lyrical inspiration. The song's highly ironic lyrics comment on British class society while portraying Arthur, the album's ill-fated protagonist, and his empty life in the suburbs. The musical aspects of the song both reflect and comment on the mood of the lyrics.\n\n\"Shangri-La\" was released as the second single from \"Arthur\" in the United Kingdom, backed with \"This Man He Weeps Tonight.\" The single was a commercial failure, not reaching the charts in any countries besides the Netherlands. The members of the band, however, thought highly of the song, with both Dave Davies and John Dalton singling it out for praise.\n\nThe initial inspiration for \"Shangri-La\" came when Rose Davies, the sister of Kinks members Ray and Dave Davies, moved with her husband to Australia. When the band performed a show in the area during January 1964, the Davies brothers visited their sister in the Adelaide village, Little Elizabeth, where she and her family lived in a semi-detached home in a \"designed community.\" This event was later used as the basis for the song in 1969.\n\nThe track forms the centrepiece of \"Arthur (Or the Decline and Fall of the British Empire)\". The song opens quietly with the picking of an acoustic guitar in a minor key, soon to be joined by Davies singing.<ref name=\"Emlen (Chords/Lyrics)\"> - chords and lyrics</ref> The lyrics are rife with commentary on British class society and are highly ironic, and in the beginning seemingly condescending, as they mock the illusions of the protagonist Arthur, speaking of his modest home, which he has paid for through a life of toil and hard work, as if it is a some kind of paradise or \"kingdom to command,\" replete with typical modern conveniences such as indoor plumbing and a rocking chair, unlike the kind of working class house in which he grew up with \"lavatories in the back yard,\" but which has turned out to become strangling and prisonlike with \"mortgage hanging over his head,\" \"bills and the water rates and payments on the car,\" as well as nosy and meddlesome neighbors. Davies provides a note of empathy for Arthur's empty life in a line stating that he accepts this because \"he's conditioned that way.\" However, the bridge rocks harder as the lyrics express anger at the superficial suburban lifestyle that Arthur has bought into and his fear of confronting a \"false Eden.\"\n\nThe band's guitarist, Dave Davies, has since said that the song's lyrics were misunderstood. He said, \"Particularly, I like 'Shangri-La,' a very compassionate song which was totally misinterpreted as though we were having a go at the little, common man.\"\n\nMusic critic Johnny Rogan calls the song \"one of Davies' best from the period,\" noting that \"his ambivalence to the subject is evident throughout as he takes an alternately affectionate and sardonic look at cosy middle class aspiration.\" Allmusic critic Stewart Mason agrees that \"Shangri-La\" is \"one of Ray Davies' finest songs ever.\" George Starostin, on his music review website \"Only Solitaire\", praises the song, saying that it \"ranks as one of the top three or four Kinks' songs ever\".\n\n\"Shangri-La\" was released as a single in Britain, but like the Kinks previous single, \"Drivin, \"Shangri-La\" failed to chart in the UK or US. Dave Davies has since expressed disappointment in the single's lack of commercial success, saying, \"Ray was writing fantastic, sensitive words that were so relevant to what was going on - better than any politician. I was really surprised at the response we got to (single) 'Shangri-La,' because I thought it was going to be a massive, massive hit.\" He went on to say, \"As a creative person you may think you've failed at something, then find out later that you've really learned from it. I wish I'd realised that when I was feeling really shitty about 'Shangri-La' not being number one.\" It did reach number 27 in the Netherlands.\n\nBassist John Dalton named the track his favorite Kinks song.\n\n"}
{"id": "25111257", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25111257", "title": "Site-specific architecture", "text": "Site-specific architecture\n\nSite-specific architecture (SSA) is architecture which is of its time and of its place. It is designed to respond to both its physical context, and the metaphysical context within which it has been conceived and executed. The physical context will include its location, local materials, planning framework, building codes, etc., whilst the metaphysical context will include the client's aspirations, community values, and architects ideas about the building type, client, location, building use, etc.\n\nIt deals with board specific codes.\n"}
{"id": "8642279", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8642279", "title": "Tale of Two Brothers", "text": "Tale of Two Brothers\n\nThe Tale of Two Brothers is an ancient Egyptian story that dates from the reign of Seti II, who ruled from 1200 to 1194 BC during the 19th Dynasty of the New Kingdom. The story is preserved on the Papyrus D'Orbiney, which is currently preserved in the British Museum.\n\nThe story centers around two brothers: Anpu (Anubis), who is married, and the younger Bata. The brothers work together, farming land and raising cattle. One day, Anpu's wife attempts to seduce Bata. When he strongly rejects her advances, the wife tells her husband that his brother attempted to seduce her and beat her when she refused. In response to this, Anpu attempts to kill Bata, who flees and prays to Re-Harakhti to save him. The god creates a crocodile-infested lake between the two brothers, across which Bata is finally able to appeal to his brother and share his side of the events. To emphasize his sincerity, Bata severs his genitalia and throws them into the water, where a catfish eats them.\n\nBata states that he is going to the Valley of Cedars, where he will place his heart on the top of the blossom of a cedar tree, so that if it is cut down Anpu will be able to find it and allow Bata to become alive again. Bata tells Anpu that if he is ever given a jar of beer that froths, he should know to seek out his brother. After hearing of his brother's plan, Anpu returns home and kills his wife. Meanwhile, Bata is establishing a life in the Valley of the Cedar, building a new home for himself. Bata comes upon the Ennead, or the principal Egyptian deities, who take pity on him. Khnum, the god frequently depicted in Egyptian mythology as having fashioned humans on a potters' wheel, creates a wife for Bata. Because of her divine creation, Bata's wife is sought after by the pharaoh. When the pharaoh succeeds in bringing her to live with him, she tells him to cut down the tree in which Bata has put his heart. They do so, and Bata dies.\n\nAnpu then receives a frothy jar of beer and sets off to the Valley of the Cedar. He searches for his brother's heart for more than three years, finding it at the beginning of the fourth year. He follows Bata's instructions and puts the heart in a bowl of cold water. As predicted, Bata is resurrected.\n\nBata then takes the form of a bull and goes to see his wife and the pharaoh. His wife, aware of his presence as a bull, asks the pharaoh if she may eat its liver. The bull is then sacrificed, and two drops of Bata's blood fall, from which grow two Persea trees. Bata, now in the form of a tree, again addresses his wife, and she appeals to the pharaoh to cut down the Persea trees and use them to make furniture. As this is happening, a splinter ends up in the wife's mouth, impregnating her. She eventually gives birth to a son, whom the pharaoh ultimately makes crown prince. When the pharaoh dies, the crown prince (a resurrected Bata) becomes king, and he appoints his elder brother Anpu as crown prince. The story ends happily, with the brothers at peace with one another and in control of their country.\n\nThere are several themes present in the \"Tale of Two Brothers\" that are significant to ancient Egyptian culture. One of these is kingship. The second half of the tale deals largely with Egyptian ideas of kingship and the connection between divinity and the pharaoh. That Bata's wife ultimately ends up pregnant with him is a reference the duality of the role of women in pharaonic succession; the roles of wife and mother were often simultaneous. Also, the divine aspect of his wife's creation could be seen to serve as legitimacy for the kingship of Bata, especially since he was not actually the child of the pharaoh. Beyond this, Bata's closeness with the Ennead in the middle of the story also serves to legitimize his rule; the gods bestowed divine favor upon Bata in his time of need.\n\nThere are also several references to the separation of Egypt into two lands. Throughout ancient Egyptian history, even when the country is politically unified and stable, it is acknowledged that there are two areas: Lower Egypt, the area in the north including the Nile Delta, and Upper Egypt, the area to the south. In the beginning of the story, Bata is referred to as unique because there was \"none like him in the entire land, for a god's virility was in him.\" Additionally, whenever one of the brothers becomes angry, they are said to behave like an \"Upper Egyptian panther,\" or, in another translation, like \"a cheetah of the south.\"\n\nThere are several issues to consider when analyzing ancient Egyptian literature in general, and the \"Tale of Two Brothers\" is no different. One difficulty of analyzing the literature of ancient Egypt is that \"such scarcity of sources gives to the observation of any kind of historical development within Ancient Egyptian literature a highly hypothetical status and makes the reconstruction of any intertextual networks perhaps simply impossible.\" Loprieno notes that the euhemeristic theory is often successfully employed in the analysis of ancient Egyptian literature; this the historiocentric method of analyzing literature as it pertained to political events.\n\nWith relation to the \"Tale of Two Brothers\", Susan Tower Hollis also advocates this approach, saying that the story might \"contain reflexes of an actual historical situation.\" Specifically, Hollis speculates that the story might have had its origins in the succession dispute following Merneptah's reign at the end of the 13th century BC. When Merneptah died, Seti II was undoubtedly the rightful heir to the throne, but he was challenged by Amenmesse, who ruled for at least a few years in Upper Egypt, although Seti II ultimately ruled for six full years.\n\nBecause of the Egyptian location wherein the scene is staged, it is not impossible to detect in the biblical account of Joseph and Potiphar's wife a more recent echo of the very old Egyptian fable of the two brothers Bata and Anpu.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "45313231", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45313231", "title": "The Ambassadors of Agamemnon in the tent of Achilles", "text": "The Ambassadors of Agamemnon in the tent of Achilles\n\nThe Ambassadors of Agamemnon in the tent of Achilles is an 1801 painting by Jean-Auguste-Dominique Ingres, produced for the Prix de Rome competition. It is now in the École nationale supérieure des beaux-arts in Paris.\n\nIt shows an episode from Homer's \"Iliad\", in which Achilles refuses to listen to the envoys sent by Agamemnon to convince him back into the Trojan War. The topic assigned for the artists competing for the Prix de Rome in 1801 was the warriors' procession toward battle; Ingres' interpretation of the subject characteristically emphasized a moment of psychological drama instead of physical action. The work was intended as a demonstration of Ingres' mastery of the human figure in classical history painting – Odysseus is shown in a red cloak derived from a sculpture by Pseudo-Phidias. \n\nThe painting is in the neo-classical style and belongs to the school of Jacques-Louis David, in whose studio Ingres had trained. It also shows new influences from John Flaxman, whose work had just had its first Parisian exhibition.\n\n"}
{"id": "19910219", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19910219", "title": "Top-left lighting", "text": "Top-left lighting\n\nTop-left lighting is an artistic convention in which illustrations are produced so that the light appears to come from the top left of the picture.\n\nMost people prefer lighting from the left when resolving a convex-concave ambiguity, and this preference may be stronger for right-handed people. This is reflected in Roman mosaics and in Renaissance, baroque and impressionist art.\n\nIn cartography, the predominant custom of placing the shadow on the right-hand side of hill profiles was established during the 15th century. Computer interfaces tend to use top left lighting as well, although this trend has gradually shifted more towards light coming straight from the top.\n\nThere are notable exceptions to this convention, such as Sandro Botticelli's The Birth of Venus due to the point of view which may represent geographical perspective and location.\n"}
{"id": "25322071", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25322071", "title": "Treasure of Villena", "text": "Treasure of Villena\n\nThe Treasure of Villena () is one of the greatest hoard finds of gold of the European Bronze Age. It comprises 59 objects made of gold, silver, iron and amber with a total weight of almost 10 kilos, 9 of them of 23.5 karat gold. This makes it the most important find of prehistoric gold in the Iberian Peninsula and second in Europe, just behind that from the Royal Graves in Mycenae, Greece.\n\nThe gold pieces include eleven bowls, three bottles and 28 bracelets.\n\nThe iron pieces are the oldest found in the Iberian Peninsula and correspond to a stage in which iron was considered to be a precious metal, and so was hoarded. The archaeologists estimate the date of this trove at c. 1000 BC.\n\nThe hoard was found in December 1963 by archaeologist José María Soler 5 km from Villena, and since then has been the main attraction of Villena's Archaeological Museum. Its discovery was published in most of the Spanish media and also some abroad, mainly in France, Germany and the United States of America. It has been exhibited in Madrid, Alicante, Tokyo and Kyoto, and now there are two sets of copies of the whole treasure to be shown in exhibitions while the originals are permanently conserved in an armoured showcase at Villena's Archaeological Museum.\n\nThe same type of metalwork is also found in the big Eberswalde Hoard that was discovered in Brandenburg, Germany, in 1913.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1551907", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1551907", "title": "Viktor Vasnetsov", "text": "Viktor Vasnetsov\n\nViktor Mikhaylovich Vasnetsov (; May 15 (N.S.), 1848 – July 23, 1926) was a Russian artist who specialized in mythological and historical subjects. He is considered the co-founder of Russian folklorist and romantic nationalistic painting (see also neo-romanticism), and a key figure in the Russian revivalist movement.\n\nViktor Vasnetsov was born in the remote village of Lopyal in Vyatka Governorate in 1848, the second of the six children. His father Mikhail Vasilievich Vasnetsov, known to be philosophically inclined, was a member of priesthood, and of scholarly dictation in the natural sciences and astronomy. His grandfather was an icon painter. Two of Mikhail Vasnetsov's three sons, Viktor and Apollinary, became remarkable painters, the third one becoming a schoolteacher. It was in Lopyal that Viktor started to paint, mostly landscapes and scenes of village life. Recalling his childhood in a letter to Vladimir Stasov, Vasnetsov remarked that he \"had lived with peasant children and liked them not as a narodnik but as a friend\".\n\nFrom the age of ten, Viktor studied in a seminary in Vyatka, each summer moving with his family to a rich merchant village of Ryabovo. During his seminary years, he worked for a local icon shopkeeper. He also helped an exiled Polish artist, Michał Elwiro Andriolli, to execute frescoes for Vyatka's Alexander Nevsky cathedral.\n\nHaving graduated from the seminary, Viktor decided to move to Saint Petersburg to study art. He auctioned his paintings of \"Woman Harvester\" and \"Milk-maid\" (both 1867) in order to raise money required for the trip to the Russian capital.\n\nIn August 1867 Viktor entered the Imperial Academy of Arts. Three years later, the Peredvizhniki movement of realist painters rebelled against the Academism.\n\nVasnetsov befriended their leader Ivan Kramskoi, referring to him as his teacher. He also became very close to his fellow student Ilya Yefimovich Repin.\n\nIt is ironic, but Viktor, whose name is associated with historical and mythological paintings, initially avoided these subjects at all costs. For his graphic composition of \"Christ and Pontius Pilate Before the People\", the Academy awarded a small silver medal to him.\n\nIn the early 1870s he executed a lot of engravings depicting contemporary life. Two of them (\"Provincial Bookseller\" from 1870 and \"A Boy with a Bottle of Vodka\" from 1872) won him a bronze medal at the World Fair in London (1874).\n\nAt that period he also started producing genre paintings in oil. Such pieces as \"Peasant Singers\" (1873) and \"Moving House\" (1876) were warmly welcomed by democratic circles of Russian society.\n\nIn 1876 Repin invited Vasnetsov to join the Peredvizhniki colony in Paris. While living in France, Viktor studied classical and contemporary paintings, academist and Impressionist alike. At that period, he painted \"Acrobats\" (1877), produced prints, and exhibited some of his works at the Salon. It was in Paris that he became fascinated with fairy-tale subjects, starting to work on \"Ivan Tsarevich Riding a Grey Wolf\" and \"The Firebird\". Vasnetsov was a model for Sadko in Repin's celebrated painting \"\". In 1877 he returned to Moscow.\n\nIn the late 1870s Vasnetsov concentrated on illustrating Russian fairy tales and the epic narrative poem Bylinas, executing some of his best known pieces: \"\" (1878), \"Prince Igor's Battlefield\" (1878),\n\"\" (completed 1884 ), \"The Flying Carpet\" (1880), and \"Alionushka\" (1881).\n\nThese works were not appreciated at the time they appeared. Many radical critics dismissed them as undermining the realist principles of the Peredvizhniki. Even such prominent connoisseurs as Pavel Mikhailovich Tretyakov refused to buy them. The vogue for Vasnetsov's paintings would spread in the 1880s, when he turned to religious subjects and executed a series of icons for Abramtsevo estate of his patron Savva Mamontov.\n\n In 1884-1889 Vasnetsov was commissioned to paint frescos in the St Vladimir's Cathedral of Kiev. This was a challenging work which ran contrary to both Russian and Western traditions of religious paintings. The influential art critic Vladimir Stasov labelled them a sacrilegious play with religious feelings of the Russian people. Another popular critic, Dmitry Filosofov, referred to these frescoes as \"the first bridge over 200 years-old gulf separating different classes of Russian society\".\n\nWhile living in Kiev, Vasnetsov made friends with Mikhail Vrubel, who was also involved in the cathedral's decoration. While they worked together, Vasnetsov taught the younger artist a great deal. It was in Kiev that Vasnetsov finally finished \"Ivan Tsarevich Riding a Grey Wolf\" and started his most famous painting, the \"Bogatyrs\".\n\nIn 1885 the painter travelled to Italy. The same year he worked on stage designs and costumes for Nikolai Rimsky-Korsakov's opera \"The Snow Maiden\".\n\nThe following two decades were productive for Vasnetsov. He increasingly turned to other media during this period. In 1897 he collaborated with his brother Apollinary on the theatrical design of another Rimsky-Korsakov premiere, \"Sadko\".\n\nAt the turn of the century, Vasnetsov elaborated his hallmark \"fairy-tale\" style of Russian Revivalist architecture. His first acclaimed design was a church in Abramtsevo (1882), executed jointly with Vasily Polenov. In 1894, he designed his own mansion in Moscow. The Russian pavilion of the World Fair in Paris followed in 1898. Finally, in 1904, Vasnetsov designed the best known of his \"fairy-tale\" buildings — the façade of the Tretyakov Gallery.\n\nBetween 1906 and 1911, Vasnetsov worked on the design of the mosaics for Alexander Nevsky Cathedral, Warsaw; he was also involved in the design of Alexander Nevsky Cathedral, Moscow.\nIn 1912, he was given a noble title by Czar Nicholas II. In 1914, he designed a revenue stamp intended for voluntary collection for victims of World War I.\n\nEven prior to the Russian Revolution, Vasnetsov became active as a regent of the Tretyakov Gallery. He allocated a significant portion of his income to the State Historical Museum, so that a large part of the museum's collection was acquired on Vasnetsov's money. After the October Revolution he advocated removing some of the religious paintings (notably those by Alexander Ivanov) from churches to the Tretyakov Gallery.\n\nIn 1915 Vasnetsov participated in the designing of a military uniform for the Victory parade of Russian army in Berlin and Constantinopole. Vasnetsov is credited with the creation of the budenovka (initially named \"bogatyrka\"), a military hat reproducing the style of ancient Rus' cone-shaped helmets.\n\nHe died in Moscow in 1926.\n\nA minor planet 3586 Vasnetsov, discovered by Soviet astronomer Lyudmila Zhuravlyova in 1978 is named after Viktor Vasnetsov and Apollinary Vasnetsov.\n\nIn the film \"\", Vasnetsov's painting of Ivan the Terrible is anachronistically presented as if it already existed in that Tsar's lifetime, and as being sent by Ivan to England when he offers to marry Queen Elizabeth I.\n\nVasnetsov's grandson was People's Artist of the USSR Andrei Vasnetsov.\n\nBibliography\n\n"}
