{"id": "747239", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=747239", "title": "Body odor", "text": "Body odor\n\nBody odor (American English) or body odour (British English) is present in humans and other animals, and its intensity can be influenced by many factors (behavioral patterns, survival strategies). Body odor has a strong genetic basis, but it can be also strongly influenced by various diseases and physiological conditions. Body odor is generally considered to be an unpleasant odor among many human cultures.\n\nIn humans, the formation of body odors is caused by factors such as diet, gender, health, and medication, but the major contribution comes from bacterial activity on skin gland secretions. Humans have three types of sweat glands; eccrine sweat glands, apocrine sweat glands and sebaceous glands. Eccrine sweat glands are present from birth, while the two latter become activated during puberty. Among the different types of human skin glands, the body odor is primarily the result of the apocrine sweat glands, which secrete the majority of chemical compounds needed for the skin flora to metabolize it into odorant substances. This happens mostly in the axillary (armpit) region, although the gland can also be found in the areola, anogenital region, and around the navel. In humans, the armpit regions seem more important than the genital region for body odor which may be related to human bipedalism. The genital and armpit regions also contain springy hairs which help diffuse body odors.\n\nThe main components of human axillary odor are unsaturated or hydroxylated branched fatty acids with E-3M2H (E-3-methylhex-2-enoic acid) and HMHA (3-hydroxy-3-methylhexanoic acid), sulfanylalkanols and particularly 3M3SH (3-methyl-3-sulfanylhexan-1-ol), and the odoriferous steroids androstenone (5α-androst-16-en-3-one) and androstenol (5α-androst-16-en-3α-ol). E-3M2H is bound and carried by two apocrine secretion odor-binding proteins, ASOB1 and ASOB2, to the skin surface.\n\nBody odor is influenced by the actions of the skin flora, including members of \"Corynebacterium\", which manufacture enzymes called lipases that break down the lipids in sweat to create smaller molecules like butyric acid. Greater bacteria populations of \"Corynebacterium jeikeium\" are for example found more in the armpits of men whereas greater population numbers of \"Staphylococcus haemolyticus\" are found in the armpits of women. This causes male armpits to give off of a rancid/cheese-like smell whereas female armpits give off a more fruity/onion-like smell. \"Staphylococcus hominis\" is also known for producing thioalcohol compounds that contribute to odors. These smaller molecules smell, and give body odor its characteristic aroma. Propionic acid (propanoic acid) is present in many sweat samples. This acid is a breakdown product of some amino acids by propionibacteria, which thrive in the ducts of adolescent and adult sebaceous glands. Because propionic acid is chemically similar to acetic acid with similar characteristics including odor, body odors may be identified as having a vinegar-like smell by certain people. Isovaleric acid (3-methyl butanoic acid) is the other source of body odor as a result of actions of the bacteria \"Staphylococcus epidermidis\", which is also present in several strong cheese types.\n\nFactors such as food, drink, and diseases can affect body odor. An individual's body odor is also influenced by lifestyle, sex, genetics, and medication. \n\nIn many animals, body odor plays an important survival function. Strong body odor can be a warning signal for predators to stay away (such as porcupine stink), or it can also be a signal that the prey animal is unpalatable. For example, some animals species, who feign death to survive (like opossums), in this state produce a strong body odor to deceive a predator that the prey animal has been dead for a long time and is already in the advanced stage of decomposing. Some animals with strong body odor are rarely attacked by most predators, although they can still be killed and eaten by birds of prey, which are tolerant of carrion odors.\n\nBody odor is an important feature of animal physiology. It plays a different role in different animal species. For example, in some predator species that hunt by stalking (such as big and small cats), the absence of body odor is important, and they spend plenty of time and energy to keep their body free of odor. For other predators, which use endurance running after the visually located prey as a hunting strategy (dogs, wolves), the absence of body odor is not critical. In most animals, body odor intensifies in moments of stress and danger.\n\nSebaceous and apocrine glands become active at puberty. This, as well as many apocrine glands being close to the sex organs, points to a role related to mating. Compared to other primates, humans have extensive axillary hair and have many odor producing sources, in particular many apocrine glands. In women, the sense of olfaction is strongest around the time of ovulation, significantly stronger than during other phases of the menstrual cycle and also stronger than the sense in males.\n\nHumans can olfactorily detect blood-related kin. Mothers can identify by body odor their biological children, but not their stepchildren. Preadolescent children can olfactorily detect their full siblings, but not half-siblings or step-siblings, and this might explain incest avoidance and the Westermarck effect. Babies can recognize their mothers by smell while mothers, fathers, and other relatives can identify a baby by smell.\n\nHumans have few olfactory receptor cells compared to dogs and few functional olfactory receptor genes compared to rats. This is in part due to a reduction of the size of the snout in order to achieve depth perception as well as other changes related to bipedalism. However, it has been argued that humans may have larger brain areas associated with olfactory perception compared to other species.\n\nStudies have suggested that people might be using odor cues associated with the immune system to select mates. Using a brain-imaging technique, Swedish researchers have shown that homosexual and heterosexual males' brains respond in different ways to two odors that may be involved in sexual arousal, and that homosexual men respond in the same way as heterosexual women, though it could not be determined whether this was cause or effect. When the study was expanded to include lesbian women; the results were consistent with previous findings meaning that lesbian women were not as responsive to male-identified odors, while their response to female cues was similar to heterosexual males'. According to the researchers, this research suggests a possible role for human pheromones in the biological basis of sexual orientation.\n\nBody odor is largely influenced by major histocompatibility complex (MHC) molecules. These are genetically determined and play an important role in immunity of the organism. The vomeronasal organ contains cells sensitive to MHC molecules in a genotype-specific way.\n\nExperiments on animals and volunteers have shown that potential sexual partners tend to be perceived more attractive if their MHC composition is substantially different. Married couples are more different regarding MHC genes than would be expected by chance. This behavior pattern promotes variability of the immune system of individuals in the population, thus making the population more robust against new diseases. Another reason may be to prevent inbreeding.\n\nThe ABCC11 gene is determines axillary body odor and the type of earwax. The loss of a functional ABCC11 gene is caused by a 538G>A single-nucleotide polymorphism, resulting in a loss of body odor in people who are specifically homozygous for it. Firstly, it affects apocrine sweat glands by reducing secretion of odorous molecules and its precursors. The lack of ABCC11 function results in a decrease of the odorant compounds 3M2H, HMHA, and 3M3SH via a strongly reduced secretion of the precursor amino-acid conjugates 3M2H–Gln, HMHA–Gln, and Cys–Gly–(S) 3M3SH; and a decrease of the odoriferous steroids androstenone and androstenol, possibly due to the reduced levels and secretion of DHEAS and DHEA (possibly bacterial substrates for odoriferous steroids). Secondly, it is also associated with a strongly reduced/atrophic size of apocrine sweat glands and a decreased protein (such as ASOB2) concentration in axillary sweat.\n\nThe non-functional ABCC11 allele is predominant among East Asians (80–95%), but very low in other ancestral groups (0–3%). Most of the world's population have the gene that codes for the wet-type earwax and normal body odor; however, East Asians are genetically predisposed for the allele associated with the dry-type earwax and a reduction in body odor. East Asians (Chinese, Koreans, and Japanese) have fewer apocrine sweat glands compared to people of other descent, making East Asians less prone to body odor. The reduction in body odor and sweating may be due to adaptation to colder climates by their ancient Northeast Asian ancestors.\n\nResearch has indicated a strong association between people with axillary osmidrosis and the ABCC11-genotypes GG or GA at the SNP site (rs17822931) in comparison to the genotype AA.\n\nBody odor may be reduced or prevented or even aggravated by using deodorants, antiperspirants, disinfectants, underarm liners, triclosan, special soaps or foams with antiseptic plant extracts such as ribwort and liquorice, chlorophyllin ointments and sprays topically, and chlorophyllin supplements internally. Although body odor is commonly associated with hygiene practices, its presentation can be affected by changes in diet as well as the other factors.\n\nAs many as 90% of Americans and 92% of teenagers use antiperspirants or deodorants. In 2014, the global market for deodorants was estimated at 13.00 billion USD with a compound annual growth rate of 5.62% between 2015 and 2020.\n\nThe condition can be known medically as bromhidrosis, apocrine bromhidrosis, osmidrosis, ozochrotia, fetid sweat, body smell, or malodorous sweating.\n\nOsmidrosis or bromhidrosis is defined by a foul odor due to a water-rich environment that supports bacteria, which is caused by an abnormal increase in perspiration (hyperhidrosis). This can be particularly strong when it happens in the axillary region (underarms). In this case, the condition may be referred to an axillary osmidrosis.\n\nTrimethylaminuria (TMAU), also known as fish odor syndrome or fish malodor syndrome, is a rare metabolic disorder where trimethylamine is released in the person's sweat, urine, and breath, giving off a strong fishy odor or strong body odor.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "52502030", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52502030", "title": "Cannabis in East Timor", "text": "Cannabis in East Timor\n\nCannabis in East Timor is illegal.\n\nA 2012 assessment undertaken on behalf of the UNFPA noted that cannabis was easily available in East Timor, often termed \"ganja\", with \"coklat\" appearing to refer to hashish. Cannabis was believed to be grown locally, usually bought and smoked in a pre-rolled joint, while hashish (smoked mixed with tobacco in a cigarette or sometimes a bong) was believed to be smuggled from Indonesia.\n"}
{"id": "2861364", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2861364", "title": "Capital punishment in France", "text": "Capital punishment in France\n\nCapital punishment in France (French: \"peine de mort en France\") is banned by Article 66-1 of the Constitution of the French Republic, voted as a constitutional amendment by the Congress of the French Parliament on 19 February 2007 and simply stating \"No one can be sentenced to death\" (French: \"Nul ne peut être condamné à mort\"). The death penalty was already declared illegal on 9 October 1981 when President François Mitterrand signed a law prohibiting the judicial system from using it and commuting the sentences of the six people on death row to life imprisonment. The last execution took place by guillotine, being the main legal method since the French Revolution; Hamida Djandoubi, a Tunisian citizen convicted of torture and murder on French soil, who was put to death in September 1977 in Marseille.\n\nMajor opponents to the death penalty in French history include philosopher Voltaire, poet Victor Hugo, politicians Léon Gambetta, Jean Jaurès and Aristide Briand, and writers Alphonse de Lamartine and Albert Camus.\n\nPrior to 1791, under the Ancien Régime, there existed a variety of means of capital punishment in France, depending on the crime and the status of the condemned person.\n\nThe first campaign towards the abolition of the death penalty began on 30 May 1791, but on 6 October that year the National Assembly refused to pass a law abolishing the death penalty. However, they did abolish torture, and also declared that there would now be only one method of execution: 'Tout condamné à mort aura la tête tranchée' (All condemned to death will have their heads cut off).\n\nThe guillotine had been proposed as a means of execution in 1789 by Joseph-Ignace Guillotin. The French Revolution marked the end of hanging by requiring all executions to be accomplished by means of the blade, rather than reserving it only for nobles. However, as beheading by a hand-held axe or blade was a comparatively inefficient and unreliable method of execution compared with hanging, the mechanical guillotine was adopted; it was also regarded as a more humane way to take the life of the condemned than earlier messy ways of execution. The device was first used on Nicolas Jacques Pelletier on 25 April 1792. Guillotine usage then spread to other countries such as Germany (where it had been used since before the revolution), Italy, Sweden (used in a single execution), and French colonies in Africa, French Guiana and French Indochina.\n\nPublic executions were the norm and continued until 1939. From the mid-19th century, the usual time of day for executions changed from around 3 pm to morning and then to dawn. Executions had been carried out in large central public spaces such as market squares but gradually moved towards the local prison. In the early 20th century, the guillotine was set up just outside the prison gates. The last person to be publicly guillotined was six-time murderer Eugen Weidmann who was executed on 17 June 1939 outside the St-Pierre prison in Versailles. Photographs of the execution appeared in the press, and apparently this spectacle led the government to stop public executions and to hold them instead in prison courtyards, such as La Santé Prison in Paris. Following the law, the first to be guillotined inside a prison was Jean Dehaene, who had murdered his estranged wife and father-in-law, executed on 19 July 1939 at St-Brieuc.\n\nThe 1940s and the wartime period saw an increase in the number of executions, including the first executions of women since the 19th century.\n\nMarie-Louise Giraud was executed on 30 July 1943 for being an abortionist, which was labeled a crime against state security.\n\nIn the 1950s to the 1970s, the number of executions steadily decreased, with for example President Georges Pompidou, between 1969 and 1974, giving clemency to all but three people out of the fifteen sentenced to death. President Valéry Giscard d'Estaing oversaw the last executions.\n\nUp to 1981, the French penal code stated that:\nIn addition, crimes such as treason, espionage, insurrection, piracy, aggravated murder, kidnapping with torture, felonies committed with the use of torture, setting a bomb in a street, arson of a dwelling house, and armed robbery made their authors liable to the death penalty; moreover, committing some military offenses such as mutiny or desertion or being accomplice or attempting to commit a capital felony were also capital offenses.\n\nThe exclusive right to commute the death sentence belonged to the President of the Republic, as in earlier ages it had belonged to the Monarch.\n\nPresident Charles de Gaulle, who supported the death penalty, commuted 19 death sentences and during his term of office, 13 people were guillotined, and a few others executed by firing squad for crimes against the security of the state (the last of those was OAS member, Lt. Colonel Jean-Marie Bastien-Thiry, who was an organizer of the famous assassination attempt on de Gaulle in 1962).\n\nThere were no executions during two-term Interim President Alain Poher, in 1969 and 1974.\n\nPresident Georges Pompidou, who was personally a death penalty opponent, commuted all but three death sentences imposed during his term.\n\nPresident Valéry Giscard d'Estaing, who, according to his own words, \"felt a deep aversion to the death penalty,\" also commuted all but three death sentences. He was President at the time of the last execution in France.\n\nOne of the examples of general amnesty for all people sentenced to death and awaiting execution took place in 1959 when, after De Gaulle's inauguration, all sentences were commuted (amnesty is not an executive clemency, rather it is an Act of Parliament).\n\nThe first official debate on the death penalty in France took place on 30 May 1791, with the presentation of a bill aimed at abolishing it. The advocate was Louis-Michel Lepeletier of Saint-Fargeau and the bill was supported by Maximilien de Robespierre. However, the National Constituent Assembly, on 6 October 1791, refused to abolish the death penalty.\n\nOn 26 October 1795, the National Convention abolished capital punishment, but only to signify the day of general peace. With the arrival of Napoleon Bonaparte, the death penalty was reinstated on 12 February 1810, in the French Imperial Penal Code.\n\nThe President of the Republic Armand Fallières, a supporter of abolition, continued to systematically pardon every convict condemned to death over the first three years of his seven-year office.\n\nIn 1906 the Commission of the Budget of the Chamber of Deputies voted for withdrawing funding for the guillotine, with the aim of stopping the execution procedure. On 3 July 1908 the Garde des Sceaux, Aristide Briand, submitted a draft law to the Deputies, dated November 1906, on the abolition of the death penalty, but, despite the support of Jean Jaurès, the bill was rejected on 8 December by 330 votes to 201.\n\nUnder the pro-Nazi Vichy Regime, Marshal Pétain refused to pardon five women due to be guillotined (something that had not occurred for more than 50 years). Pétain himself was sentenced to death following the overthrow of the Vichy Regime, but General Charles de Gaulle commuted Pétain's sentence to life imprisonment on the grounds of old age (89). Other Vichy officials, including notably Pierre Laval, were not so fortunate and were shot. Under Vincent Auriol's presidency, three more women were beheaded; one in Algeria and two in France. The last Frenchwoman to be beheaded (Germaine Leloy-Godefroy) was executed in Angers in 1949. In 1963, Lt. Colonel Jean-Marie Bastien-Thiry the last person executed by a firing squad.\n\nHaving been defended by lawyer Robert Badinter, Patrick Henry narrowly escaped being condemned to death on 20 January 1977 for the murder of a child. Numerous newspapers predicted the end of the death penalty. On 10 September 1977, Hamida Djandoubi was guillotined; he would be the last person executed in France.\n\nRobert Badinter, a longtime opponent of capital punishment and the defending lawyer of some of the last men to be executed, became minister of justice and proposed the final abolition of the death penalty in 1981, which was pushed through the National Assembly with the backing of newly elected president François Mitterrand.\n\n\nToday, although a few French politicians (notably the far-right Front national former leader Jean-Marie Le Pen) declare themselves to be in favour of the death penalty, its re-establishment would not be possible without the unilateral French rejection of several international treaties. Repudiation of international treaties is not unknown to the French system, as France renounced its obligations under the NATO treaty in 1966, though it rejoined the pact in 2009.\n\nOn 20 December 1985, France ratified Additional Protocol number 6 to the European Convention to Safeguard Human Rights and fundamental liberties. This means that France can no longer re-establish the death penalty, except in times of war or by denouncing the Convention.\n\nOn 21 June 2001, Jacques Chirac sent a letter to the association \"Ensemble\" saying he was against the death penalty: \"It's a fight we have to lead with determination and conviction, Because no justice is infallible and each execution can kill an innocent; because nothing can legitimise the execution of minors or of people suffering from mental deficiencies; because death can never constitute an act of justice.\" On 3 May 2002, France and 30 other countries signed Protocol number 13 to the European Convention on Human Rights. This forbids the death penalty in all circumstances, even in times of war. It went into effect on 1 July 2003, after having been ratified by 10 states.\n\nDespite the above, in 2004, a law proposition (number 1521) was placed before the French National Assembly, suggesting re-establishment of the death penalty for terrorist acts. The bill was not adopted. On 3 January 2006, Jacques Chirac announced a revision of the Constitution aimed at writing out the death penalty. (On the previous 13 October, the Constitutional Council had deemed the ratification of the Second Optional Protocol to the international pact necessitated such a revision of the Constitution. The protocol concerned civil and political rights aimed at abolishing the death penalty.)\n\nOn 19 February 2007, the Congress of the French Parliament (the National Assembly and the Senate, reunited for the day) voted overwhelmingly a modification of the Constitution that states that \"no one can be sentenced to death.\" There were 828 votes for the modification, and 26 against. The amendment entered the Constitution on 23 February.\n\nDuring the 20th century, French opinion on the death penalty has greatly changed, as many polls have showed large differences from one time to another.\n\n\nThe following people were executed during the Fifth Republic (between 1959 and 1977).\n\n\n"}
{"id": "44193631", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44193631", "title": "Childhood cataract", "text": "Childhood cataract\n\nChildhood cataract is cataract that occurs at birth or in childhood. It may be congenital or acquired.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "766544", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=766544", "title": "Construction site safety", "text": "Construction site safety\n\nConstruction work is a hazardous land-based job. Some construction site jobs include: building houses, roads, tree forts, workplaces and repair and maintain infrastructures. This work includes many hazardous task and conditions such as working with height, excavation, noise, dust, power tools and equipment. The most common fatalities are caused by the fatal four: falls, being struck by an object, electrocutions, and being caught in between two objects. Construction work has been increasing in developing and undeveloped countries over the past few years. With an increase in this type of work occupational fatalities have increased. Occupational fatalities are individuals who die while on the job or performing work related tasks. Within the field of construction it is important to have safe construction sites.\n\nIn deciding the risk precautions, the employer has to provide different degrees of protection. Where one task happens to be more dangerous than another, a greater degree of care has to be taken, but where the employer cannot eliminate the dangerous task, reasonable precautions are needed to reduce the risk according to Nguyen Van Vinh v Cheung Ying Construction Engineering Ltd (2008). This does not, however, imply that an employer is required to remove every risk. The Lord Oaksey commented in Winter v Cardiff Rural District Council (1950) stated that “but this does not mean that an employer must decide on every detail of the system of work or mode of operation. There is a sphere in which the employer must exercise his discretion and there are other spheres in which foremen and workmen must exercise theirs...With regard to the decision how safety precaution has to be taken frequently, it should be left to the foreman or workmen on the site. Whilst the immediate employer of the employee is liable for safety, Morris v. Breaveglen (1993) ruled that the principal contractor cannot escape from his liability. The general employers argued that they should not be liable for the injuries as they were not exercising direct control over the workers. However, judges invalidated such contention in Rainfield Design & Associates Ltd v Siu Chi Moon (2000), “[t]he purpose of the Regulations was clearly to provide for the safety of workman and the primary responsibility for this must rest with the contractor responsible for the site. Even where a subcontractor had a contractual duty to provide plant and equipment, the contractor responsible for the site would not be relieved from its duty under the Regulations.” \n\nLi (2019) proposes that there are three generations of construction safety informatics which are relevant to construction safety enhancement:\n\n1. The first generation of construction safety informatics consisted of technologies that relied completely on control by human beings; for example, structural equation modelling requires the work of an analyst.\n\n2. The second generation of construction safety informatics included smart features such as the Internet of Things which can send information to human operators, without human intervention — from sensors, etc. Yet, these “smart” tools cannot learn and improve on their own capabilities.\n\n3. The third generation of construction safety informatics uses state-of-the-art AI, to mimic human behavior and think, act, learn and improve on its own decision making. All that is required is that the relevant information is fed to these systems, so that they can be ‘taught’ \n\nIn 2014, the United States had 4,679 fatal occupational injuries, an incidence rate of 3.3 per 100,000 full-time employed workers. In the same year, fatal work injuries in construction and extraction occupations increased 5%. One in five deaths of workers in 2014 were construction related. Construction has about 6% of U.S. workers, but 17% of the fatalities - the largest number of fatalities reported for any industry sector. In the United Kingdom, the construction industry is responsible for 31% of fatalities at work and 10% of major workplace injuries. In South Africa there are 150 fatalities and approximately 400 injuries each year related to construction sites. In Brazil, the incidence rate for all occupational fatalities is 3.6 per 100,000. (Little to no information regarding construction fatalities could be found in Asia, South American, Africa, and the Antarctic.) The chart below contains more countries and the rate of construction site fatalities.\n\nThe leading safety hazards on construction sites include falls, being caught between objects, electrocutions, and being struck by objects. These hazards have caused injuries and deaths on construction sites throughout the world. Failures in hazard identification are often due to limited or improper training and supervision of workers. Areas where there is limited training include tasks in design for safety, safety inspection, and monitoring safety. Failure in any of these areas can result in an increased risk in exposing workers to harm in the construction environment.\n\nFalls are the leading cause of injury in the construction industry, in particularly for elder and untrained construction workers. In the Occupational Safety and Health Administration (OSHA) Handbook (29 CFR) used by the United States, fall protection is needed in areas including but not limited to ramps, runways, and other walkways; excavations; hoist areas; holes; form-work; leading edge work; unprotected sides and edges; overhand bricklaying and related work; roofing; precast erection; wall openings; floor openings such as holes; residential construction; and other walking/working surfaces. Other countries have regulations and guidelines for fall protections to prevent injuries and deaths.\n\nMotor vehicle crashes are another major safety hazard on construction sites. It is important to be cautious while operating motor vehicles or equipment on the site. A motor vehicle should have a service brake system, emergency brake system, and a parking brake system. All vehicles must be equipped with an audible warning system if the operator chooses to use it. Vehicles must have windows and doors, power windshield wipers, and a clear view of site from the rear window. All employees should be properly trained before using motor vehicles and equipment.\n\nEmployees on construction sites also need to be aware of dangers on the ground. Cables running across roadways were often seen until cable ramp equipment was invented to protect hoses and other equipment which had to be laid out. Another common hazard that workers may face is overexposure to heat and humidity in the environment. Overexertion in this type of weather can lead to serious heat-related illnesses such as heat stroke, heat exhaustion, and heat cramps. Other hazards found on construction site include asbestos, solvents, noise, and manual handling activities. \n\nConstruction workers need to be properly trained and educated on the task or job before working, which will assist in preventing injuries and deaths. There are many methods of training construction workers. One method is coaching construction site foremen to include safety in their daily verbal exchanges with workers to reduce work-related accidents. It is important that the workers use the same language to assure the best communication. In recent years, apart from traditional face to face safety knowledge sharing, mobile apps also make knowledge sharing possible. \n\nAnother method is ensuring that all workers know how to properly use electronics, conveyors, skid-steer, trucks, aerial lifts, and other equipment on the construction site. Equipment on the job site must be properly maintained and inspected regularly before and after each shift. The equipment inspection system will help the operator make sure that a machine is mechanically sound and in safe operating conditions. An employee should be assigned to inspect equipment to insure proper safety. Equipment should have lights and reflectors if intended for night use. The glass in the cab of the equipment must be safety glass in some countries. The equipment must be used for its intended task at all times on the job site to insure workers' safety.\n\nEach construction site should have a construction site manager. This is an occupational health and safety specialist who designs and implements safety regulations to minimize injuries and accidents. He or she also is in charge of conducting daily safety audits and inspections to ensure compliance with government regulations. Most construction site managers have an entry level experience or higher degree.\n\nBefore any excavation takes place, the contractor is responsible for notifying all applicable companies that excavation work is being performed. During excavation, the contractor is responsible for providing a safe work environment for employees and pedestrians. \n\nAccess and egress are also important parts of excavation safety. Ramps used by equipment must be designed by a person qualified in structural design. No person is allowed to cross underneath or stand underneath any loading or digging equipment. Employees are to remain at a safe distance from all equipment while it is operational. Employees who have training and education in the above areas will benefit their co-workers and themselves on the construction site.\n\nThe American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009 created over 12,600 road construction projects, over 10,000 of which are currently in progress. Workers in highway work zones are exposed to a variety of hazards and face risk of injury and death from construction equipment as well as passing motor vehicles. Workers on foot are exposed to passing traffic, often at high speeds, while workers who operate construction vehicles are at risk of injury due to overturn, collision, or being caught in running equipment. Regardless of the task assigned, construction workers work in conditions in poor lighting, poor visibility, inclement weather, congested work areas, high volume traffic and speeds. In 2011, there were a total of 119 fatal occupation fatalities in road construction sites. In 2010 there were 37,476 injuries in work zones; about 20,000 of those were to construction workers. Causes of road work site injuries included being struck by objects, trucks or mobile equipment (35%), falls or slips (20%), overexertion (15%), transportation incidents (12%), and exposure to harmful substances or environments (5%). Causes of fatalities included getting hit by trucks (58%), mobile machinery (22%), and automobiles (13%).\n\nRoad construction safety remains a priority among workers. Several states have implemented campaigns addressing construction zone dangers and encouraging motorists to use caution when driving through work zones. \n\nNational Work Zone Safety Awareness Week is held yearly. The national event began in 1999 and has gained popularity and media attention each year since. The purpose of the event is to draw national attention to motorist and worker safety issues in work zones.\n\nSite preparation aids in preventing injury and death on construction sites. Site preparation includes removing debris, leveling the ground, filling holes, cutting tree roots, and marking gas, water, and electric pipelines. Another prevention method on the construction site is to provide a scaffold that is rigid and sufficient to carry its own weight plus four times the maximum intended load without settling or displacement.\n\nWays to prevent injuries and improve safety include:\n\nThe employees or employers are responsible for providing fall protection systems and to ensure the use of systems. Fall protection can be provided by guardrail systems, safety net systems, personal fall arrest systems, positioning device systems, and warning line systems. Making sure that ladders are long enough to safely reach the work area to prevent injury. Stairway, treads, and walkways must be free of dangerous objects, debris and materials. A registered professional engineer should design a protective system for trenches 20 feet deep or greater for safety reasons. To prevent injury with cranes, they should be inspected for any damage. The operator should know the maximum weight of the load that the crane is to lift. All operators should be trained and certified to ensure that they operate forklifts safely.\n\nOperational Excellence Model to improve safety for construction organizations\n\nThere are 13 safety drivers associated with this model to improve safety for construction organizations:\n\n\nEach safety driver mentioned above has some sub-elements attributed to it.\n\nHard hats, steel-toe boots and reflective safety vests are perhaps the most common personal protective equipment worn by construction workers around the world. A risk assessment may deem that other protective equipment is appropriate, such as gloves, goggles, or high-visibility clothing.\n\nMany construction sites cannot completely exclude non-workers. Road construction sites must often allow traffic to pass through. This places non-workers at some degree of risk.\n\nRoad construction sites are blocked off and traffic is redirected. The sites and vehicles are protected by signs and barricades. However, sometimes even these signs and barricades can be a hazard to vehicle traffic. For example, improperly designed barricades can cause cars that strike them to roll over or even be thrown into the air. Even a simple safety sign can penetrate the windshield or roof of a car if it strikes from certain angles.\n\nThe majority of deaths in construction are caused by hazards relating to construction activity. However, many deaths are also caused by non construction activities, such as electrical hazards. A notable example of this occurred when Andy Roberts, a father of four, was killed in 1988 in New York while changing a light bulb at a construction site when he came into contact with a loose bare wire that was carrying two thousand volts of electricity and died.. Events like this have motivated the passing of further safety laws relating to non construction activities such as electrical work laws.\n\nUnder European Union Law, there are European Union Directives in place to protect workers, notably Directive 89/391 (the Framework Directive) and Directive 92/57 (the Temporary and Mobile Sites Directive). This legislation is transposed into the Member States and places requirements on employers (and others) to assess and protect workers health and safety.\n\nIn the United Kingdom, the Health and Safety Executive (HSE) is responsible for standards enforcement, while in Northern Ireland, the Health and Safety Executive for Northern Ireland (HSENI) is responsible. In Ireland, the Health and Safety Authority (HSA) is responsible for standards and enforcement.\n\nIn Europe, the European Agency for Safety and Health at Work coordinates actions at the EU and national levels and the Directorate-General for Employment, Social Affairs and Inclusion is responsible for regulation at the EU level.\n\nIn the United States, the Occupational Safety and Health Administration (OSHA) sets and enforces standards concerning workplace safety and health. Efforts have been made in the first decade of the 21st century to improve safety for both road workers and drivers in construction zone. In 2004, Title 23 Part 630 Subpart J of the Code of Federal Regulations was updated by Congress to include new regulations that direct state agencies to systematically create and adopt comprehensive plans to address safety in road construction zones that receive federal funding.\n\nOSHA implemented the Final Rule to Improve Tracking of Workplace Injuries and Illnesses, which went into effect January 1, 2017. It requires employers to submit incident data electronically to OSHA. This data will enable OSHA to use enforcement and compliance assistance resources more efficiently. The amount of data required varies by company and industry.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "58741928", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58741928", "title": "DATRI", "text": "DATRI\n\nDATRI (meaning 'donor' in Sanskrit) is a not-for-profit organization registered in 2009 as a Section 8 company under the Government of India. DATRI is the nation's largest adult unrelated blood stem cell donors registry, which helps patients with blood cancer and other fatal blood disorders to find a genetically HLA (Human Leukocyte Antigen) matched donor enabling transplant.\nBlood stem cell transplant is a permanent cure for patients suffering from blood cancer and other severe blood disorders. As of September 2018, DATRI has over 3 lakhs voluntary donors registered and it has facilitated 437 transplants worldwide. DATRI operates in 10 major cities in India.\n\nDATRI has received several recognitions for their work. The most notable award DATRI has received is the Global NGO Excellence Award under the Best Healthcare NGO category in 2018.\n\nDATRI is a registered member with World Marrow Donor Association (WMDA) and by the virtue of which, DATRI lists the HLA typing information anonymously, without revealing any personally identifiable information of the donor with WMDA. The organization is also listed in Bone Marrow Donors Worldwide (BMDW), a global search program available to Transplant Centers globally.\n\nDATRI was co-founded by Raghu Rajagopal, Dr. Nezih Cereb, and Dr. Soo Young Yangin 2009. The NGO works with a mission to save the lives of those people who are suffering from the blood cancer, Aplastic Anemia, Thalassemia and other severe blood disorders.\n\nPassed out of Birla Institute of Technology and Science, Pilani, in Engineering Technology, Raghu was a software developer and consultant in the US. He was involved in three commercial ventures, a product company, an e-business services company, and a BPO. He worked with several NGOs and volunteered in various donors’ drives for the collection of blood stem cells throughout his 12 years of stay in the US. Raghu returned to India with a dream of starting the NGO for the same purpose. He was set to deal with the challenges faced by patients of life-threatening diseases like leukemia due to lack of stem cells in the blood and wanted to encourage healthy Indians for donating the stem cells and create an exhaustive Donors Registry. Raghu, who returned to India in 2005, knew that for such a large country there had to be a functional registry. It took a while for the idea of forming a registry in India to crystallize, mainly because of the costs involved in doing Human Leukocyte Antigen (HLA) typing. He teamed up with Dr. Soo Young Yang and Dr. Nezih Cereb, founders of Histogenetics, a laboratory that specialized in HLA typing, for starting a blood stem cell registry.\n\n2016: \n2017: \n2018: \n\n"}
{"id": "14832440", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14832440", "title": "Death of Nataline Sarkisyan", "text": "Death of Nataline Sarkisyan\n\nNataline Mary Sarkisyan ; July 10, 1990 – December 20, 2007) was an American teenager with recurrent leukemia. Her case became part of the health care reform debate in the United States in 2007 when Cigna HealthCare denied coverage for a liver transplant operation. The company later reversed its decision after a great deal of media attention to her story, but Sarkisyan died hours later.\n\nSarkisyan was diagnosed with leukemia at age 14. She was covered under her father's health insurance, through his employer, Mercedez-Benz. The employer plan was administered by Cigna HealthCare. During her treatment for leukemia, her liver deteriorated. \n\nSarkisyan's doctors at the UCLA Medical Center told the family and Cigna that they recommended a liver transplant, and patients in similar circumstances have a six-month survival rate of 65%. Different doctors gave different estimates of the likelihood of success. Dr. John Roberts, chief of the transplant service at UC San Francisco (not the transplant center treating Sarkisyan), said that his center generally does not accept a patient without a 50% or greater five year survival rate. Dr. Goran Klintmalm, chief of the Baylor Regional Transplant Institute in Dallas, said this particular operation was a \"very high-risk transplant,\" but that he would consider the same operation on a similar patient. On December 11, 2007, Cigna rejected the request for coverage for the liver transplant. Sarkisyan's doctors at UCLA, including the head of its transplant unit, wrote a letter to protest that the treatment proposed was neither experimental nor unproven and called on Cigna to urgently review its decision.\n\nCigna HealthCare refused to pay for treatment by citing policy provisions which do not cover services considered experimental, investigational and/or unproven to be safe and/or effective for the patient. Cigna said that it had no financial stake in the decision because it only administered the insurance plan and would not bear the cost of any operation. The cost of a liver transplant and one year of follow-up care was $450,000 in 2005. UCLA declined two livers while waiting for insurance approval from Cigna. Ms. Sarkisyan's family was also informed that they could proceed with the transplant if they could make a down-payment of $75,000.\n\nAmong the groups who publicly spoke out against Cigna's decision was the California Nurses Association/National Nurses Organizing Committee.\n\nAfter public media attention grew, Cigna reversed its decision, but offered to pay for the transplant itself when it made the exception to the policy. Cigna's reversal of its policy, offering to pay for the transplant, came just hours before Sarkisyan's death.\n\nSarkisyan's family spoke out at a New Hampshire rally in support of Senator John Edwards' presidential campaign on January 6, 2008 based on his advocacy of reforming and overhauling the US health care system.\n\nSarkisyan's family retained attorney Mark Geragos to sue Cigna, and requested that Los Angeles County District Attorney Steve Cooley file murder charges against the insurer. The case was thrown out due to a \"Pilot Life Ins. Co. v. Dedeaux\", 1987 U.S. Supreme Court ruling shielding employer-paid healthcare plans from damages over their coverage decisions.\n\n"}
{"id": "5477737", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5477737", "title": "Department of Health (Philippines)", "text": "Department of Health (Philippines)\n\nThe Philippine Department of Health (abbreviated as DOH; ) is the executive department of the Philippine government responsible for ensuring access to basic public health services by all Filipinos through the provision of quality health care and the regulation of all health services and products. It is the government's over-all technical authority on health. It has its headquarters at the San Lazaro Compound, along Rizal Avenue in Manila.\n\nThe department is led by the Secretary of Health, nominated by the President of the Philippines and confirmed by the Commission on Appointments. The Secretary is a member of the Cabinet. The current Secretary of Health is Francisco Duque.\n\nAmericans assembled a military Board of Health on September 10, 1898, with its formal organization on September 29. Upon its creation, Dr. Frank S. Bourns is assigned as president while Dr. C. L. Mullins is assigned as assistant surgeon. The purpose of this Board of Health was to care for injured American troops but as the hostilities between Filipinos and Americans waned in 1901, a civilian Board of Health was now deemed appropriate with Dr. L. M. Maus as the first health commissioner.\n\nIn the early 1900s, 200,222 lives including 66,000 children were lost; three percent of the population was decimated in the worst epidemic in Philippine health history. In view of this, the Americans organized and erected several institutions, including the Bureau of Governmental Laboratories, which was built in 1901 for medical research and vaccine production.\n\nThe Americans, led by Dean Worcester built the UP College of Medicine and Surgery in 1905, with Johns Hopkins University serving as a blueprint, at the time, one of the best medical schools in the world. By 1909, nursing instruction was also begun at the Philippine Normal School. In terms of public health, the Americans improved on the sewer system and provided a safer water supply.\n\nIn 1915, the Bureau of Health was reorganized and renamed into the Philippine Health Service. During the succeeding years leadership and a number of health institutions were already being given to Filipinos, in accordance with the Organic Act of 1916. On January 1, 1919, Dr. Vicente De Jesus became the first Filipino to head the Health portfolio.\n\nIn 1933, after a reorganization, the Philippine Health Service reverted to being known as the Bureau of Health. It was during this time that it pursued its official journal, \"The Health Messenger\" and established Community Health and Social Centers, precursors to today's Barangay Health Centers.\n\nBy 1936, as Governor-General Frank Murphy was assuming the post of United States High Commissioner, he would remark that the Philippines led all oriental countries in terms of health status.\n\nWhen the Commonwealth of the Philippines was inaugurated, Dr. Jose Fabella was named chief of the Bureau of Health. In 1936, Dr. Fabella reviewed the Bureau of Health’s organization and made an inventory of its existing facilities, which consisted of 11 community and social health centers, 38 hospitals, 215 puericulture centers, 374 sanitary divisions, 1,535 dispensaries and 72 laboratories.\n\nIn the 1940s, the Bureau of Health was reorganized into the Department of Health and Public Welfare, still under Fabella. During this time, the major priorities of the agency were tuberculosis, malnutrition, malaria, leprosy, gastrointestinal disease, and the high infant mortality rate.\n\nWhen the Japanese occupied the Philippines, they dissolved the National Government and replaced it with the Central Administrative Organization of the Japanese Army. Health was relegated to the Department of Education, Health and Public Welfare under Commissioner Claro M. Recto.\n\nIn 1944, President Manuel Roxas signed Executive Order (E.O.) No. 94 into law, calling for the creation of the Department of Health. Dr. Antonio C. Villarama as appointed Secretary. A new Bureau of Hospitals and a Bureau of Quarantine was created under DOH. Under E.O. 94, the Institute of Nutrition was created in 1948 to coordinate various nutrition activities of the different agencies.\n\nOn February 20, 1958, Executive Order 288 provided for the reorganization of the Department of Health. This entailed a partial decentralization of powers and created eight Regional Health Offices. Under this setup, the Secretary of Health passed on some of responsibilities to the regional offices and directors.\n\nOne of the priorities of the Marcos administration was health maintenance. From 1975 to the mid-eighties, four specialty hospitals were built in succession. The first three institutions were spearheaded by First Lady Imelda Marcos. The Philippine Heart Center was established on February 14, 1975 with Dr. Avelino Aventura as director. Second, the Philippine Children’s Medical Center was built in 1979. Then in 1983, the National Kidney and Transplant Institute was set up. This was soon followed by the Lung Center of the Philippines, which was constructed under the guidance of Health Minister Dr. Enrique Garcia.\n\nWith a shift to a parliamentary form of government, the Department of Health was transformed into the Ministry of Health on June 2, 1978 with Dr. Clemente S. Gatmaitan as the first health minister. On April 13, 1987, the Department of Health was created from the previous Ministry of Health with Dr. Alfredo R. A. Bengzon as secretary of health.\n\nAt present, the Department is headed by the Secretary of Health, with five undersecretaries and seven assistant secretaries.\n\nThe DOH is composed of bureaus, namely:\n\nThe following agencies and councils are attached to the DOH for policy and program coordination:\n\nThe following hospitals are directly under the DOH: \n"}
{"id": "21570617", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21570617", "title": "Dermatopolymyositis", "text": "Dermatopolymyositis\n\nDermatopolymyositis (also called PM/DM) is a family of myositis disorders that includes polymyositis and dermatomyositis.\n"}
{"id": "55703656", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55703656", "title": "Disability in Israel", "text": "Disability in Israel\n\nDisability rights in Israel are based among the rest upon disabillity pensions, accessibility regulations, therapy, special education, sheltered workshop and assisted living.\n\nSince the beginning of the 21st century, the disabled people in Israel, with a population of 250,000, have managed to equalize the disability pension from the Bituah Leumi (National Insurance Institute of Israel) to the minimum wage level in Israel. \nAs of 2017, the struggle was made by demonstrations, blocking main roads, highways and industries, activity in social networking services, petitions to the High Court of Justice, negotiations with the Government of Israel and bills in the Knesset.\n\nIn 2017, a full disability pension was 2,342 ILS. The minimum wage in this year was 5,000 ILS, and in December 2017 it went up to 5,300 ILS per month.\n\nThe General Disability Pension was linked to the national average salary in Israel, as it was determined in the National Insurance Law [combined version], 1995, but in an amendment from 2003, it was determined in article 110 of the Law, that the pension will be linked to the Consumer Price Index.\n\nIn January 2000, the minimum wage was 2,797.75 ILS, and the disability pension in Israel was 2,239 ILS, 80 percent of the minimum wage. However, even in 2000 the disabled people demanded to equalize their pension to the minimum wage.\n\nMost of the disabled Israelis who are entitled to a full disability pension and are permanently dependent on it for work incapacity, do not receive any other allowance. Those who receive an additional special allowance, receive it for special needs such as nursing or mobility, and it does not cover the costs to which it is intended. In addition, the designated allowances are not for basic subsistence needs.\n\nThe disability pension in Israel was one of the lowest in the OECD countries: In 2007, Israel was ranked 26th out of 31 countries. An examination conducted by OECD in 2007 also found that the disability benefit per capita in Israel was approximately 80 percent lower than the average allowance per capita in the OECD countries. In 2004, Israel raised the threshold of the sole Medical Disability from 40 percent to 60 percent, as the eligibility for Disability pension. On June 10, 2018, the National Insurance Institute advertised an extensive research which found that the allowances in Israel were one of the lowest in the Western world, and wrote: \"Israel's Social Security System is characterized by a very low level of generosity\". \n\nOn December 7, 2016, the Knesset approved in a preliminary reading, by a majority of 42 to 39, a law proposal, which had been submitted by MK Ilan Gilon to equalize the basic disability pension to the minimum wage. Some months earlier, MK Nava Boker also submitted on February 28, 2016, a bill to link the disability pension to the minimum wage. The difference between her bill and Gilon's bill was that by Boker's bill, payments to the disabled from private insurances would be reduced from the disability allowance. Boker's bill which received 82 signatures of Knesset members, was transferred to the Ministerial Committee on Legislation, but was postponed several times.\n\nFollowing the discussion in the Ministerial Committee on Legislation, in mid-February 2017 the Minister of Finance Moshe Kahlon appointed Professor Yaron Zelekha, in cooperation with the \"Necheh, Lo Hetzi Ben Adam\" (Disabled, Not Half a Human Being) Association led by Alex Fridman, to the head of a special commission to examine raising disability payments. In May 2017, Zelekha recommended an increase in the disability pension to 4,000 ILS per month in three stages, linkage of the pension to the Consumer Price Index plus one percent, raising the disregard (the amount which is allowed to earn) to the Minimum Wage level, equalizing payment of a nursing worker to the minimum wage, pension under a work disability and not only a physical disability, increasing pension of elderly disabled, and broadening the range of the mobility allowance.\n\nIn May 2017 the Prime Minister of Israel Benjamin Netanyahu appointed Professor Avi Simhon, chairman of the National Economic Council in the Prime Minister's Office, as a chairman of another committee with representatives from the Ministry of Finance, Ministry of Social Affairs and Social Services, Ministry of Health and the National Insurance Institute. The Commission's recommendations were submitted after about a month. The allowance for a disabled person under this scheme would be 3,200 ILS and would be given to people with disabilities at the rate of 75% or more who were defined as poor, while the disregard of a salary would be decreased from 5,300 ILS (the minimum wage) to 4,200 ILS.\n\nOn June 22, 2017, MK David Bitan, Coalition chairman, convened a News conference and said that he rejected the recommendation of Simhon Committee to 3,200 ILS, and agreed with the Opposition to accept 4,000 ILS recommended by Zelekha Committee.\n\nWith the establishment of the Simhon Committee, the disabled people reacted by repeated blockings of major roads in Israel such as the entrance to Ben Gurion International Airport from Highway 1, the Ayalon Highway, Highway 4, Ra'anana Junction, the Coastal Road and the entrance to Jerusalem, near the Chords Bridge.\n\nThe demonstrators claimed that for decades they had demonstrated in front of the Knesset, the Ministry of Finance and the roads, but the government and the public ignored their demands. Therefore they had to turn to roadblocks. Initially, the Israel Police did not take proactive enforcement action against roadblocks, but with increasing traffic disturbances, The police began to take a more severe hand, and some of the obstructions included clashes between the police and the handicapped, and several disabled people were arrested.\nIn September 2017, the police issued a statement saying that it would no longer allow roadblocks in demonstrations, and that it would begin to fine the demonstrators who blocked roads. The police added that it \"will continue to allow freedom of expression and protest by law, but will not allow a public order to be violated and such a significant violation of the normal fabric of life of Israeli citizens\".\n\nA week before the submission of the conclusions of the Simhon Committee, disabled representatives appealed to the High Court following the postponement of allowances increasing. In its response to the petition, the state claimed that the petitioners did not prove that the disability allowance of 2,342 ILS a month would not allow the right to live with dignity. On June 18, 2018, the chief justice Esther Hayut cancelled the petition in the High Court. She adjudicated that the disability pension has already been raised by legislation in February 2018, and the petition should be corrected due to this raise.\n\nOn September 4, 2017, the Disabled people demonstrated outside the Histadrut offices in Tel Aviv. On September 5, 2017, the Histadrut Chairman Avi Nissenkorn met with the Disabled people's organizations, and told them that the Histadrut would be a full partner in their struggle.\n\nOn September 18, 2017, there was a special plenum session in the Knesset, due to the delay in legislation, which resulted a submission of tens of MKs signatures to Yuli Edelstein, the Speaker of the Knesset. The subject of the session was the government's maltreatment in the disabled people. Some MKs, as the former Minister of Finance Yair Lapid, attacked the government. The session ended with a vote of 49 votes, with no opposition, to pass the issue to one of the Knesset committees.\n\nToward the end of September 2017, Naomi Moravia, chairwoman of the \"Israeli Human Rights Organization of People with Disabilities\", which was located in the Histadrut building in Tel Aviv, asked for Nissenkorn assistance in opposition to the government. Following her request, Nissenkorn convened on the night of September 29, 2017, a night meeting at the Histadrut of representatives of disabled people with him, with MK Ilan Gilon and MK David Bitan, and with Avi Simhon. After 12 hours of negotiations until the morning hours, during which Yehuda Doron, a representative of the Polio Handicapped Association, retired from the discussion, and Dr. Amichai Tamir of the Disabled Organization remained in the discussion, but opposed the outline, it was agreed to supplement the disability pension in four stages until 2021, so that the final allowance would be 3,800 up to 4,000 ILS for the disabled and 4,050 ILS for 30 thousand individuals with above 80% disability. The sum of the disregard would be raised in two stages to 4,000 ILS in January 2018 and to 4,300 ILS in January 2019. The budgetary cost of the outline was 4.2 billion ILS, and it was agreed that the addition of 340 to 540 ILS for Disabled people, would start in January 2018. On October 1, 2017, Simhon claimed that the government could only commit to an addition of 1.3 billion ILS for 2018, and would not commit itself to the coming years. Simhon explained that a computer program (a software agent) which was called Numerator, limited the government's commitment without an appropriate budget clause, and therefore the inability to commit to 4.2 billion ILS.\n\nSimhon's remarks about the inability to commit to 4.2 billion ILS, along with the expected addition in January 2018 of 340 ILS to the disabled and the four stages up to 2021, caused most disabled people to deny the outline which had been reached between the organizations \"Israeli Human Rights Organization of People with Disabilities\" and \"Necheh Lo Hetzi Ben Adam\" and the Government, with the assistance of Nissenkorn.\n\nThe organizations \"The Disabled Panthers\" led by Eyal Cohen, \"The A-team Disabled\" under the leadership of Ofer Sofer, the organization of the disabled, led by Tamir, and the Polio organization led by Doron, announced that they would continue to block roads until the disability pension would be equal to the minimum wage and would be paid with one stage.\n\nOren Helman, a Vice President of the Israel Electric Corporation, a father of a daughter with a disability, and a former advisor to Netanyahu for a year when Netanyahu was the Finance Minister, also published an article in the newspaper Globes after advertising the Histadrut outline, and demanded to increase the amount of the disregard to 15,000 ILS.\n\nOn October 3, 2017, the members of \"The Disabled Panthers\" and \"The A-team\" blocked two entrances to the Port of Ashdod from six in the morning for five hours, causing heavy financial damage. The demonstrators agreed to evacuate the entrances to the port after the police agreed to void the traffic tickets which it recorded on their vehicles. On October 9, 2017, during the Sukkot holiday, representatives of the disabled were hosted by the President Reuven Rivlin at the president's succah (tabernacle), which was opened to the general public. The president asked the disabled to hold a dignified dialogue with all the professional bodies. Then the disabled went and demonstrated outside the house of the Interior Minister Aryeh Deri in the rain. From Deri, they went to the Prime Minister's residence on Balfour street, and blocked Gaza Street. From there they moved to , and blocked the traffic. On October 15, for the first time in cooperation with representatives of disabled IDF veterans, the disabled disrupted the southern traffic on the Coastal Road near Netanya by driving slowly on the road, with the approval and in coordination with the police.\n\nOn October 17, 2017, disabled people gathered at a gas station near the Latrun Interchange, and from there they drove slowly on Highway 1 to Jerusalem, causing heavy traffic. They arrived at the Prime Minister's house and blocked the southern entrance gate on Balfour Street. Nicole Raidman arrived and caused a media storm when she gave 2,000 ILS to Hanna Akiva from \"The Disabled Panthers\". Then the Panthers' spokesman clarified that the money was transferred to cover their expenses, and was not used personally. After blocking the Prime Minister's residence, they blocked Keren Hayesod Street in Jerusalem, blocked Paris Square, and from there they went to the Chords Bridge and blocked the entrance to Jerusalem until evening, under the supervision of the police.\n\nWith the return of the Knesset to the Winter Session on October 23, 2017, disabled people from 15 organizations set up a tent opposite the Knesset, and clashed with its security guards in an attempt to break into the territory of the Knesset. The police closed Kaplan Street to traffic. When Naomi Moravia left the Knesset, the disabled people burst out, shouting at her, and security guards accompanied her out. The disabled also blocked the entrances to the Ministry of Finance.\n\nOn November 5, 2017, members of \"the Disabled Panthers\" blocked the entrances and exits at the Haifa Oil Refineries for four and a half hours. The security personnel of the Refineries went out to the protestors with refreshments.\n\nOn November 19, 2017, the Disabled people blocked the entrances and exits of the Prime Minister's Office in Jerusalem, when the weekly cabinet meeting was held there, and then blocked the Light rail traffic in Jerusalem.\n\nOn November 22, 2017, at seven o'clock in the morning, \"the Disabled Panthers\" blocked the exits from Bitan's home in Rishon LeZion, in a similar manner to the four beats designed for the disabled. Some residents of the street tried to confront them, and the police forces in the area prevented it. From there, they went to Ben Gurion Airport and blocked the railway. On November 29, 2017, they returned to Bitan's place at 5:40 in the morning, when it was still dark, and met Bitan on his way to his car, because Bitan's driver could not reach him, due to the blocking by the Panthers. Police accompanied Bitan, and the Panthers told Bitan that they would continue to block him and his neighbors until he realized that just a minimum wage would be the pension for all disabled people. Amnon Ben-Ataf followed Bitan, condemned him, told him that he disliked disabled people, and asked how his wife and his daughter could live on 2,400 ILS if they became disabled. Bitan replied to him: \"Do not shout in my ear\". In response, Moravia sent a bouquet of roses to Bitan, wrote: \"We are not them\", and signed on behalf of her organization's members.\n\nOn November 25, 2017, the Welfare Minister of Israel Haim Katz announced a bill on his behalf that would be placed on the Government's table. The \"Israeli Human Rights Organization of People with Disabilities\" responded to Katz's bill, and rejected the non-linkage to the Average Wage in Israel, the lowering of the total amount from 4.2 billion ILS to less than 2 billion ILS, the absence of further increase of the Disregard in 2019, and the absence of further increase of the disability pension. On November 26, 2017, a memorandum of law was published,[64] which was the formal beginning of a legislative initiative initiated by the government for several changes in the disability pension following the agreement between the disability organizations and the government. On the same day, the disabled people demonstrated against Katz's bill, and blocked the light rail in Jerusalem for an hour.\n\nOn December 5, 2017, at a meeting of the Labor, Welfare and Health Committee in the Knesset, which was headed by MK Eli Alaluf on the bill submitted by MK Gilon, a fight broke out between Arik Harari, who opposed the Histadrut's outline, and Ofer Buchnik of the \"Israeli Human Rights Organization of People with Disabilities\". According to Harari, he responded to the touch of Gabi Hadai from the \"Israeli Human Rights Organization\" at Simcha Benita, the chairwoman of \"Mazor\" organization. On December 11,2017 Another meeting was held in the Labor, Welfare and Health Committee. At this meeting, MK Moti Yogev of the Jewish Home said that it was absolutely necessary that the Disability Pension would not be affected due to going out of Disabled people to work, alongside the obligation to shorten the stages. MK Abd al-Hakim Hajj Yahya of the Joint List said that disability pensions are a commitment of the state towards its citizens, and the budget of 4.2 billion ILS is not something sacred. He said that the MKs had to check with the Treasury if there was over revenue. By Hajj Yahya, if there was money, the stages' number should be reduced. Eyal Cohen from \"the Disabled Panthers\" said that he had paid to the National Insurance every month without any stages, and his doctor told him a year ago, that he would have four years to live.\n\nOn December 20, 2017, the Knesset approved unanimously in a preliminary vote the bill submitted by MK Mickey Rosenthal supported by Welfare Minister Katz, which would increase the allowance to 4,300 ILS in a gradual process. Katz said that a minimum wage for the disabled people probably would not happen. On December 21, 2017, \"the Disabled Panthers\" arrived at the home of Shai Babad, the Director general of the Finance Ministry, after Katz had said and had denied afterwards, that Babad had asserted that he totally had not cared about the Disabled. From Babad, the Panthers moved to Netanyahu in Caesarea, barricaded themselves in front of the house and pasted stickers of \"the Disabled Panthers\" on the door of his home, on the front door of his parking lot and on the street illumination.\n\nOn December 29, 2017, Boker announced that on Sunday, December 31, 2017, she would submit her bill to the Ministerial Committee on Legislation for the sixth time. According to Boker, the Ministerial Committee approved the bill and attached it to the government bill. On January 1, 2018, Gilon convened Knesset members from the Coalition and from the Opposition to discuss the absence of legislation by the government, even though the legislative deadline passed. \n\nOn January 3, 2018, Netanyahu and Katz announced at a News conference that the disabled would receive an additional 161 ILS in July 2018, in addition to the planned 340 ILS. The Disabled responded by blocking Highway 4 and burning tires, blocking the Golf Junction in Caesarea and blocking the Power station in Hadera. On the same day, Boker's bill passed in a preliminary reading in the Knesset by 86 votes without dissent. In an interview with Israel Hayom, Katz admitted that the additions to the disabled pension were insufficient, and a week later, blamed the Treasury for playing game, and said that Netanyahu did not care about disabled. Fridman announced that the government was breaking the agreement and launched a campaign \"We will not agree to half an Agreement\".\n\nOn September 12, 2018, Katz said in the government meeting that the agreement to transfer the National Insurance surplus to the Treasury is canceled. According to article 7 of the agreement, each party may notify the other party in writing, no later than three months prior to the end of a particular financial year, that from the subsequent fiscal year, it is no longer interested in investments under this agreement. The Ministry of Labor and Social Affairs told the media that the situation in which the money that was supposed to guarantee the future of the allowances and of the National Insurance Institute, served the current state budget – could not continue. In a reaction, MK Itzik Shmuli said that over the years, the Finance Ministry robbed more than 220 billion ILS from the National Insurance Institute funds. Instead of keeping the money to ensure compliance with obligations, it was burned on the political needs of the governments. This reckless and dangerous behavior has led to a catastrophic situation in which the Institute would not be able to provide the elderly, disabled people and the other eligible people in the future, what they deserved by law.\n\nOn October 24, 2018, there was a repeated vote in the Knesset on the law proposal of MK Gilon to equalize the disability allowance to the minimum wage. This time the proposal failed by 39 opponents against 37 supporters. MK Oded Forer cursed MKs of the Likud who left the vote, and let him do their job. Neta Ben-Cnaan advertised the exact results.\n\nOn November 26, 2018, Kahlon said in the morning show \"HaOlam HaBoker\" (The world this morning) with Avri Gilad and Maya Ziv Wolf, that the disabled people have never received such a large addition. He said that it was clear that all the organizations of the disabled and the elderly people were satisfied. There is a small group which is not satisfied. Kahlon did not specify the addition which the disabled people got, but said: \"They received a big sum\".\n\nOn January 8, 2018, Ravit Ben Baruch, a disabled leader, addressed Simhon in her video in Facebook, and told him:\n\n\"What did you come to tell me? That as long as you could milk me with exorbitant taxes that have no parallel in any civilized country in the world, the arrangement between us worked great. Moreover, I have never earned a minimum wage, so I paid every month very good taxes, assuming naively that it was okay to cut me like it, because it went to families who needed it, but it has not been done. What can I tell you, each one of you? At the moment you would stop being a milking cow, you would have to expect it. This state would strip you of the last dignity which you still had, and would treat you as a beggar at the doorway. From the moment in which he could not suck my blood any longer, I became a burden. A burden on the state coffers. As such, he is sorry to disappoint me, I am not entitled to a pension. I get a handout and I have to thank nicely and shut up. In the sequence of the disgusting nonsense that came out of your mouth, you were right about one thing. There is no university in the world which could teach you what human compassion is. No, sir. You are just a lost cause. And do you know what? I do not need to get excited by you either. Who are you at all? You are just a pathetic little pawn, a spineless marionette which is pulled by strings. You also are not the addressee.\" \n\nOn August 15, 2018, Ben Baruch joined \"Tnufa Le-Dimona\" (Momentum for Dimona), a political party in Dimona which was led by Eli Sagron towards the municipal elections in Israel on October 30, 2018. On October 3, 2018, Ben Baruch joined \"Kulanu\" in Dimona, which was led by Michal Elmalem Abu, and Amichai Tamir reacted to it. When a reader, whose name was Eitan Sharon, asked if Kahlon also studied Business administration for burying the disabled people's rights, Ben Baruch replied that four years of her life were wasted in the university, because she could learn better during half a year from her father, who managed a business. On October 30, 2018, Kulanu received one seat at the municipal elections in Dimona.\n\nOn January 22, 2018, the \"Israeli Human Rights Organization of People with Disabilities\" returned and blocked the entrances to the Israel Aerospace Industries, and the port of Ashdod. The organization announced the government's failure to reach the outline which had been agreed in the Histadrut, and the organization's return, after painful compromises and condemnations by other Disabled, to its original demand: a disability pension of a minimum wage in one stage.\n\nOn February 12, 2018, the National Insurance Law was approved by the Labor, Welfare and Health Committee, and the disabled people also participated in the committee. The sums set did not meet the requirements of the disabled, but were accepted lawfully by the Knesset plenum on the night of February 12-13. In response, The Disabled Panthers barricaded themselves at the Knesset with other disabled people, and after an agreement with the Knesset officer, they voluntarily left the Knesset.\n\nOn May 17, 2018, the Disabled Panthers initiated a new project of serving food to disabled people. As a result, Yonathan Tadmor held a demonstration at the Government Compound in Tel Aviv on May 31, 2018, requesting a Minimum Wage for the Disabled and Elderly people. The commander of the Police station, Commander Shlomi Sagi, pushed Yael Nitzav to Ayalon road.\n\nOn June 4, 2018, the Disabled Panthers met with Yehuda Doron at the Clalit Health Services Headquarters in Tel Aviv, after the passing away of the Disabled Panther Raanan Kerklies, which had demonstrated against Clalit, demanding a full refund for an ambulance after a dialysis, which he received four times a week. After the meeting, the Disabled Panthers went down and blocked the head intersection of Arlosorov and Ibn Gabirol streets in Tel Aviv.\n\nOn June 28, 2018, there were four demonstrations of the disabled people at the same time. The demonstrations were in Haifa in front of Kahlon's house, led by Yonathan Tadmor; in Tel Aviv on Ayalon Highway, led by Eyal Cohen; in Jerusalem near to the Prime Minister's house, led by Ofer Sofer, and in Beersheba at the plaza near Beersheba District Court, led by Ravit Ben Baruch.\n\nOn July 16, 2018, Tadmor led a meeting of disabled and elderly people at the Yaka square in Jerusalem at 2:00 pm. They blocked mainly the public transportation, served by Egged, allowed some buses to pass from time to time, and blocked the square again, when it was organized mainly by the disabled Arabian Abu Shanab. Some Japanese tourists who visited the Knesset, passed by the demonstration and fully recorded it. The disabled blocked also the National Square near the Supreme Court, the Light Rail and the traffic by the Chords Bridge. At 3:25 pm, Ravit Ben Baruch in a white shirt, Hannah Kim, a publicist and a mother of two children with autism, in a black dress, Yael Nitzav with a backpack, and Yaffa Friedman, came in the Knesset and wanted to submit a diploma of disgrace to the Minister of Communications Ayoob Kara and to the rest of the 119 MKs, but a security man forcibly seized the diplomas, banned the entry credentials of the four ladies and deported them out of the Knesset. Before the deportation, Heidi Moses, a daughter of Eliezer Moses, asked Ben Baruch why she did not attend the session of \"Kulanu\" with Kahlon, which was held nearby, and claimed that the diplomas were propaganda papers, and were seized by a decision of The Knesset officer. At the same time, another group of activists of the Likud stood nearby with a paper which praised the Likud, and recorded itself by a video, while the officer in charge looked at it with indifference. Ben Baruch replied Moses that Kahlon returned the disabled people to the roads to fight upon their lives. Moses told Kim that she was ten years in the Knesset and made achievements with Netanyahu. Kim asked Moses why she did not prevent the voting of Netanyahu against the correction of the Surrogacy Law, and Moses called Kim \"Darling\", claiming that Kim shot the arrows towards the wrong human being.\n\nOn August 7, 2018, the Disabled Panthers with additional disabled Israelis, blocked the exits at the Ben Gurion Airport. The police distributed bottles of water to the disabled demonstrators, who protested from 4:00 p.m. until 8:20 p.m., and were filmed and interviewed by all the Israeli television channels, more than once. Eyal Cohen advertised the demands of the Panthers in the demonstration at the Ben Gurion Airport:\nOn October 15, 2018, the Disabled Panthers demonstrated in front of the Knesset, and Amnon Ben-Ataf was pushed to the ground by a police officer. On November 20, 2018, the Disabled Panthers blocked the rail crossing near Yakum, until they were evicted by the police. Afterwards, Eyal Cohen made a speech and said:\n\n\"\"Recently a lot of people, the disabled people as well as the general public, have asked me about the blockades and the public support in the struggle of the disabled.\"<br>\n\"Now I turn to you with a question which gives you something to think about. The support which we get, according to what it seems, is: \"Sit at home quietly, do not disturb us, we will support you\".\"<br>\n\"Let us look back sixteen years. Sixteen years of a struggle, when the last one and a half years have been tougher. What sign did we see? What statement have we seen from the public which supports us? Except a like in Facebook and a siren on the road of folks who pass by. Not the drivers who are blocked. With likes on Facebook, we will not go to the grocery store and shall not buy medicines. Even with a siren of encouragement, we cannot bring food home.\"<br>\n\"The question is what we look for. Do we really want to get results, or just sit quietly at home and being liked? They will like us as poor people, who beg for bread, or they would dislike us and we could go to the grocery store and live in dignity.\"<br>\n\"The upcoming elections have awakened some members of the disabled organizations, who want to run for the Knesset. Their way is to step upon corpses, and they go out against the Panthers, against anyone who acts, because their main reason is the public opinion.\"<br>\n\"So think now, each one with himself, what do you prefer. Being liked by the audience, but remaining in poverty, or being disliked by the audience, but being able to go to the grocery store, buy medicine and live in dignity.\"<br>\n\"If most of the disabled public tells me that it prefers to be liked when it sits at home quietly and does not speak, I will accept it. I will stop the struggle, following the majority. If most of the disabled people tells me that we have to continue to fight and would not care what they think about us, because we care about the disabled and the elderly, not what the healthy people think about us, we will continue to intensify the struggle.\"<br>\n\"Yesterday, on railway, it was a step up. To this day, we have not been evicted forcibly. From now and on, these images would repeat themselves time after time. It depends on you. Have a wonderful day for everyone.\"\" Similar words were said in the television show \"Talk of the day\" with Lucy Aharish on November 21, 2018, and Aharish said her opinion against the lawmakers. On November 26, 2018, Cohen made an additional speech, and talked about the misleading which has been made by the government.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "37182627", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37182627", "title": "Emergency Hospital Service (Scotland)", "text": "Emergency Hospital Service (Scotland)\n\nThe Emergency Hospital Service (EHS) of Scotland was an intensive, publicly funded programme of hospital building conducted by the Department of Health for Scotland during the 1940s. The scale and pace of public investment in hospital construction and staffing was unprecedented in Europe. \n\nIn a few years the EHS expanded Scottish hospital capacity by 60%, creating 20,500 additional beds. After the war, 13,000 of these EHS hospital beds and the accompanying staff, together with the older Highlands and Islands Medical Service facilities and staff, formed the basis of the Scottish National Health Service, founded in 1948.\n\nThe EHS began in 1939 to cope with the expected high number of civilian casualties from German air raids. Scotland was prioritised as it was seen as the likely refuge for resistance if the Axis powers had invaded England. \n\nScottish civil servants had built up experience of directly running public health services since the establishment of the Highlands and Islands Medical Service in 1913, and they focussed their efforts into this new public works programme.\n\nThe expected numbers of civilian casualties never arrived at the new facilities, so Tom Johnston, the Secretary of State for Scotland (1941–45), decided to use the largely empty buildings to reduce long surgery waiting times, with 33,000 civilian patients treated by EHS facilities by the end of the war in 1945.\n\nJohnston also used the new EHS facilities for a new range of publicly funded specialist health care: orthopaedic care, plastic surgery, eye injuries, psychoneurosis, neurosurgery and other specialities. The EHS also formed the basis of the national pathology laboratory service, and, in 1940 the Scottish National Blood Transfusion Association to improve existing transfusion services.\n\nsites were identified to build hospitals at:\nThe EHS construction programme came to the attention of German military intelligence, but they mistook it for a military programme, so the Law and Stracathro hospitals were marked on Luftwaffe maps as barracks.\n\nIn addition to the 7 new hospitals and one clinic, the EHS constructed new annexes at existing hospitals.\n\nHotels were commandeered to provide convalescent accommodation. For example, Gleneagles Hotel was adapted to care for injured mineworkers.\n\n"}
{"id": "25469059", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25469059", "title": "Environmental Water Quality Chile", "text": "Environmental Water Quality Chile\n\nChile's privatization of water has led to many environmental problems. Since water tends to flow towards money it is being over-allocated to industries such as mining and agriculture. Of course, the ecosystem itself cannot commit any money to securing water rights and the DGA has no powers for legislation, all it can do is monitor the worsening situation. This is especially true in the northern Atacama Region. In some regions of the north the Atacama regional governor has given out water permits totaling 16,000 cubic meters per second where it has been shown that replenishment rates are near 4,000 cubic meters per second. This imbalance causes water scarcity, which combined with warmer temperatures and less rainfall, has stressed local ecosystems immensely. In the Metropolitan Region of Santiago there has been an increase in wildfires and the country is hard pressed to keep up with mitigation efforts. In 2009 there were at least 290 fires, up from 143 in 2008, burning about 1035 hectares of land.\n\nBesides lowering the amount of water available, mining and other industrial activities release a large amount of hazardous chemicals and heavy metals such as chrome, lead, copper, mercury, and nickel into rivers and municipal sewage systems. These metals are known to cause cancers and other neurological diseases. It is estimated that only between 5 and 15 percent of sewage is actually treated, while the remainder is pumped raw into streams and the ocean itself. Solid industrial waste is often sent to landfills where it is exposed to precipitation and surface runoff. This ultimately ends up in streams, or worse, the groundwater aquifer where drinking water is obtained.\n\nIn 2000 an assessment determined that a one-time investment of $1.4 million by the industrial firms would generate an annual savings of $1.9 million and a 32 percent reduction in pollution. The assessment showed that it is possible to reduce pollution and save money, if the companies are willing or if the government takes stronger action. It is unlikely companies will take this action their own since the Chilean government is severely lacking in environmental regulation enforcement. That it not to say that there are no incentives for companies to treat industrial wastewater, however. The Santiago water and sewage utility – a private company – imposes charges based on the concentration of industrial effluent and places limits on the maximum amount of major pollutants. It charges the companies a large amount if their waste levels are too high, a stronger incentive to reduce pollution. This demonstrates that companies are receptive to incentives and penalties if they are implemented. If enough social pressure is put on the government perhaps legislation can be enacted to reduce the environmental impact from major industries that have been given much leniency thus far.\n\n"}
{"id": "2319582", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2319582", "title": "General Social Care Council", "text": "General Social Care Council\n\nThe General Social Care Council (GSCC) was a non-departmental public body of the Department of Health in the United Kingdom which was the regulator of social workers and social work students in England between 2001 and 2012. It set down codes of conduct for social workers and social work employers and maintained a register of around 100,000 social workers and students, using a conduct model to regulate and discipline registrants.\n\nThe GSCC was set up in 2001 further to the Care Standards Act 2000, which was enacted partly in response to criticisms in the late 1990s of social services in Britain, in particular the high-profile case of Victoria Climbié, a young girl who was abused and eventually killed by her relatives in north London despite having been known to local social services. The GSCC inherited the mantle of the Central Council for Education and Training in Social Work (CCETSW), a previous body which had responsibility solely for managing and funding Social Work education. The GSCC was given a broader remit to take a lead not only in education but in the strategic development and promotion of the whole social care sector in Britain.\n\nAfter the formation of a Coalition government in 2010, the General Social Care Council was earmarked for abolition as part of a drive to reduce the number and cost of publicly funded organisations. On 31 July 2012 it closed, and the regulation of social workers was taken over by the Health Professions Council, which was renamed the Health and Care Professions Council to reflect its expanded role. The GSCC's sister organisations in the other countries of the United Kingdom – the Scottish Social Services Council (SSSC), the Care Council for Wales (in Welsh: \"Cyngor Gofal Cymru\") (CCW or CGC), and the Northern Ireland Social Care Council – continued to exist with their functions intact.\n\nAt the time of its closure, the Chair of the General Social Care Council was Rosie Varley, and its Chief Executive was Penny Thompson.\n\nThe council has changed its name and is now Health and Care Professions Council (HCPC).\n"}
{"id": "4065238", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4065238", "title": "Gigantiform cementoma", "text": "Gigantiform cementoma\n\nGigantiform cementoma is a rare, autosomal dental tumor. It is benign, but without intervention it can result in severe disfigurement of the jaw. The cause of this tumor is currently unknown. This is an exceedingly rare tumor with only a handful of documented cases worldwide. The most famous case is of Novemthree Siahaan (who died on September 15, 2005), a young Indonesian boy from Batam Island who received medical care in Haulien, Taiwan through a Buddhist missionary from the Tzu Chi Foundation, which was documented on the Discovery Health Channel. Another famous case is a young Korean girl named Ayun Lee (August 26, 2003~) and her father Young-hak Lee whose case has shown that the tumor can be heritable. She is currently under treatment, which she may need to continue until her growth stops in her early 20s. \n\nThe term has been used in the past to describe florid cemento-osseous dysplasia, but it is now reserved for an autosomal dominant condition affecting the maxillae. It affects mostly Caucasian people under the age of 10. Treatment is difficult. Surgical removal of the affected bone is needed, and has to be followed by reconstruction.\nOral Surg Oral Med Oral Pathol. 1989 Dec;68(6):740-7.\nAyun.co.kr http://www.ayun.co.kr/ (Korean)\n"}
{"id": "45452362", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45452362", "title": "Graham Johnson (scientist)", "text": "Graham Johnson (scientist)\n\nGraham Johnson is an animator, illustrator and, beginning in 2012, faculty fellow at the California Institute for Quantitative Biosciences. He has a master's degree in medical illustration from Johns Hopkins, and a PhD in biophysics from Scripps. After graduating from Johns Hopkins and while working at the Salk Institute, he illustrated the textbook \"Cell Biology\".\n\nJohnson is the creator of the software applications \"autoPACK\" and \"cellPACK\" which enable modeling, simulation and visualization of mesoscopic three-dimensional spatial data utilizing packing algorithms.\n\n"}
{"id": "17383329", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17383329", "title": "Hemozoin", "text": "Hemozoin\n\nHaemozoin is a disposal product formed from the digestion of blood by some blood-feeding parasites. These hematophagous organisms such as Malaria parasites (\"Plasmodium spp.\"), \"Rhodnius\" and \"Schistosoma\" digest haemoglobin and release high quantities of free heme, which is the non-protein component of hemoglobin. A heme is a prosthetic group that consists of an iron atom contained in the center of a heterocyclic porphyrin ring. Free heme is toxic to cells, so the parasites convert it into an insoluble crystalline form called hemozoin. In malaria parasites, hemozoin is often called \"malaria pigment\".\n\nSince the formation of hemozoin is essential to the survival of these parasites, it is an attractive target for developing drugs and is much-studied in \"Plasmodium\" as a way to find drugs to treat malaria (malaria's Achilles' heel). Several currently used antimalarial drugs, such as chloroquine and mefloquine, are thought to kill malaria parasites by inhibiting haemozoin biocrystallization.\n\nBlack-brown pigment was observed by Johann Heinrich Meckel in 1847, in the blood and spleen of a person suffering from insanity. However, it was not until 1849 that the presence of this pigment was connected to infection with malaria. Initially, it was thought that this pigment was produced by the body in response to infection, but Charles Louis Alphonse Laveran realized in 1880 that \"malaria pigment\" is, instead, produced by the parasites, as they multiplied within the red blood cell. The link between pigment and malaria parasites was used by Ronald Ross to identify the stages in the \"Plasmodium\" life cycle that occur within the mosquito, since, although these forms of the parasite are different in appearance to the blood stages, they still contain traces of pigment.\n\nLater, in 1891, T. Carbone and W.H. Brown (1911) published papers linking the degradation of hemoglobin with the production of pigment, describing the malaria pigment as a form of hematin and disproving the widely held idea that it is related to melanin. Brown observed that all melanins were bleaching rapidly with potassium permanganate, while with this reagent malarial pigment manifests not the slightest sign of a true bleach reaction. The name \"hemozoin\" was proposed by Louis Westenra Sambon. In the 1930s several authors identified hemozoin as a pure crystalline form of α-hematin and showed that the substance did not contain proteins within the crystals, but no explanation for the solubility differences between malaria pigment and α-hematin crystals was given.\n\nDuring its intraerythrocytic asexual reproduction cycle \"Plasmodium falciparum\" consumes up to 80% of the host cell hemoglobin. The digestion of hemoglobin releases monomeric α-hematin (ferriprotoporphyrin IX). This compound is toxic, since it is a pro-oxidant and catalyzes the production of reactive oxygen species. Oxidative stress is believed to be generated during the conversion of heme (ferroprotoporphyrin) to hematin (ferriprotoporphyrin). Free hematin can also bind to and disrupt cell membranes, damaging cell structures and causing the lysis of the host erythrocyte. The unique reactivity of this molecule has been demonstrated in several \"in vitro\" and \"in vivo\" experimental conditions. \n\nThe malaria parasite, therefore, detoxifies the hematin, which it does by biocrystallization—converting it into insoluble and chemically inert β-hematin crystals (called hemozoin). In \"Plasmodium\" the food vacuole fills with hemozoin crystals, which are about 100-200 nanometres long and each contain about 80,000 heme molecules. Detoxification through biocrystallization is distinct from the detoxification process in mammals, where an enzyme called heme oxygenase instead breaks excess heme into biliverdin, iron, and carbon monoxide.\n\nSeveral mechanisms have been proposed for the production of hemozoin in \"Plasmodium\", and the area is highly controversial, with membrane lipids, histidine-rich proteins, or even a combination of the two, being proposed to catalyse the formation of hemozoin. Other authors have described a Heme Detoxification Protein, which is claimed to be more potent than either lipids or histidine-rich proteins. It is possible that many processes contribute to the formation of hemozoin.\nThe formation of hemozoin in other blood-feeding organisms is not as well-studied as in \"Plasmodium\". However, studies on \"Schistosoma mansoni\" have revealed that this parasitic worm produces large amounts of hemozoin during its growth in the human bloodstream. Although the shapes of the crystals are different from those produced by malaria parasites, chemical analysis of the pigment showed that it is made of hemozoin. In a similar manner, the crystals formed in the gut of the kissing bug \"Rhodnius prolixus\" during digestion of the blood meal also have a unique shape, but are composed of hemozoin. Hz formation in \"R. prolixus\" midgut occurs at physiologically relevant physico-chemical conditions and lipids play an important role in heme biocrystallization. Autocatalytic heme crystallization to Hz is revealed to be an inefficient process and this conversion is further reduced as the Hz concentration increases.\n\nextracellularly and do not produce hemozoin. Heme is retained in the peritrophic matrix, a layer of protein and polysaccharides that covers the midgut and separates gut cells from the blood bolus.\n\nAlthough β-hematin can be produced in assays spontaneously at low pH, the development of a simple and reliable method to measure the production of hemozoin has been difficult. This is in part due to the continued uncertainty over what molecules are involved in producing hemozoin, and partly from the difficulty in measuring the difference between aggregated or precipitated heme, and genuine hemozoin. Current assays are sensitive and accurate, but require multiple washing steps so are slow and not ideal for high-throughput screening. However, some screens have been performed with these assays.\n\nβ-Hematin crystals are made of dimers of hematin molecules that are, in turn, joined together by hydrogen bonds to form larger structures. In these dimers, an iron-oxygen coordinate bond links the central iron of one hematin to the oxygen of the carboxylate side-chain of the adjacent hematin. These reciprocal iron–oxygen bonds are highly unusual and have not been observed in any other porphyrin dimer. β-Hematin can be either a cyclic dimer or a linear polymer, a polymeric form has never been found in hemozoin, disproving the widely held idea that hemozoin is produced by the enzyme heme-polymerase.\n\nHemozoin crystals have a distinct triclinic structure and are weakly magnetic. The difference between diamagnetic low-spin oxyhemoglobin and paramagnetic hemozoin can be used for isolation. They also exhibit optical dichroism, which means that they absorb light more strongly along their length than across their width, which allows the automated detection of malaria. Hemozoin is produced in a form that, under the action of an applied magnetic field, gives rise to an induced optical dichroism characteristic of the hemozoin concentration; and precise measurement of this induced dichroism may be used to determine the level of malarial infection.\n\nHemozoin formation is an excellent drug target, since it is a process that is essential to the survival of the malaria parasite and absent from the human host. The drug target hematin is host-derived and largely outside the genetic control of the parasite, which makes the development of drug resistance more difficult. Many clinically used drugs are thought to act by inhibiting the formation of hemozoin in the food vacuole. This prevents the detoxification of the heme released in this compartment, and kills the parasite.\n\nThe best-understood examples of such hematin biocrystallization inhibitors are quinoline drugs such as chloroquine and mefloquine. These drugs bind to both free heme and hemozoin crystals, and therefore block the addition of new heme units onto the growing crystals. The small, most rapidly growing face is the face to which inhibitors are believed to bind.\n\nHemozoin is released into the circulation during reinfection and phagocytosed in vivo and in vitro by host phagocytes and alters important functions in those cells. Most functional alterations were long-term postphagocytic effects, including erythropoiesis inhibition shown in vitro.\nBy contrast, a powerful, short-term stimulation of oxidative burst by human monocytes was also shown to occur during phagocytosis of nHZ.\n\n"}
{"id": "4949970", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4949970", "title": "Horizontal transmission", "text": "Horizontal transmission\n\nHorizontal transmission is the transmission of infections between members of the same species that are not in a parent-child relationship. This has been generalized to include transmissions of cultural traits between humans.\n\nBecause the evolutionary fate of the agent is not tied to reproductive success of the host, horizontal transmission tends to evolve virulence. It is therefore a critical concept for evolutionary medicine.\n\nIn biological, but not cultural, transmissions the carriers (also known as vectors) may include other species. The two main biological modes of transmission are \"anterior station\" and \"posterior station\". In anterior station, transmission occurs via the bite of an infected organism (the vector), like in malaria, dengue fever, and bubonic plague. Posterior station is transmission via contact with infected feces. Examples are rickettsiae driven diseases (like typhus), which are contracted by a body louse's fecal material being scratched into the bloodstream. The vector is not necessarily another species, however. For example, a dog infected with Rabies may infect another dog via anterior station transmission. Moreover, there are other modes of biological transmission, such as generalized bleeding in ebola.\n\nCultural transmission may also be horizontal which is explicitly reified in Dual Inheritance Theory. Horizontal transmission is implicit in the meme theory of cultural evolution, where the \"meme\" has been characterized by Richard Dawkins as a \"Virus of the Mind\".\n\n"}
{"id": "7357937", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7357937", "title": "Implantation (human embryo)", "text": "Implantation (human embryo)\n\nIn humans, implantation is the stage of pregnancy at which the embryo adheres to the wall of the uterus. At this stage of prenatal development, the conceptus is called a blastocyst. It is by this adhesion that the embryo receives oxygen and nutrients from the mother to be able to grow.\n\nIn humans, implantation of a fertilized ovum is most likely to occur around 9 days after ovulation, however this can range between 6 and 12 days.\n\nThe reception-ready phase of the endometrium of the uterus is usually termed the \"implantation window\" and lasts about 4 days. The implantation window occurs around 6 days after the peak in luteinizing hormone levels. With some disparity between sources, it has been stated to occur from 7 days after ovulation until 9 days after ovulation, or days 6-10 postovulation. On average, it occurs during the 20th to the 23rd day after the last menstrual period.\n\nThe implantation window is characterized by changes to the endometrium cells, which aid in the absorption of the uterine fluid. These changes are collectively known as the plasma membrane transformation and bring the blastocyst nearer to the endometrium and immobilize it. During this stage the blastocyst can still be eliminated by being flushed out of the uterus. Scientists have hypothesized that the hormones cause a swelling that fills the flattened out uterine cavity just prior to this stage, which may also help press the blastocyst against the endometrium. The implantation window may also be initiated by other preparations in the endometrium of the uterus, both structurally and in the composition of its secretions.\n\nTo enable implantation, the uterus goes through changes in order to be able to receive the conceptus.\n\nThe endometrium increases thickness, becomes vascularized and its glands grow to be tortuous and boosted in their secretions. These changes reach their maximum about 7 days after ovulation.\n\nFurthermore, the surface of the endometrium produces a kind of rounded cells, which cover the whole area toward the uterine cavity. This happens about 9 to 10 days after ovulation. These cells are called decidual cells, which emphasises that the whole layer of them is shed off in every menstruation if no pregnancy occurs, just as leaves of deciduous trees. The uterine glands, on the other hand, decrease in activity and degenerate around 8 to 9 days after ovulation in absence of pregnancy.\n\nThe decidual cells originate from the stromal cells that are always present in the endometrium. However, the decidual cells make up a new layer, the decidua. The rest of the endometrium, in addition, expresses differences between the luminal and the basal sides. The luminal cells form the zona compacta of the endometrium, in contrast to the basalolateral zona spongiosa, which consists of the rather spongy stromal cells.\n\nDecidualization succeeds predecidualization if pregnancy occurs. This is an expansion of it, further developing the uterine glands, the zona compacta and the epithelium of decidual cells lining it. The decidual cells become filled with lipids and glycogen and take the polyhedral shape characteristic for decidual cells.\n\nIt is likely that the blastocyst itself makes the main contribution to this additional growing and sustaining of the decidua. An indication of this is that decidualization occurs at a higher degree in conception cycles than in nonconception cycles. Furthermore, similar changes are observed when giving stimuli mimicking the natural invasion of the embryo.\n\nThe decidua can be organized into separate sections, although they have the same composition.\n\n\nAfter implantation the decidua remains, at least through the first trimester. However, its most prominent time is during the early stages of pregnancy, during implantation. Its function as a surrounding tissue is replaced by the definitive placenta. However, some elements of the decidualization remain throughout pregnancy.\n\nThe compacta and spongiosa layers are still observable beneath the decidua in pregnancy. The glands of the spongiosa layer continue to secrete during the first trimester, when they degenerate. However, before that disappearance, some glands secrete unequally much. This phenomenon of hypersecretion is called the Arias-Stella phenomenon, after the pathologist Javier Arias-Stella.\n\nPinopodes are small, finger-like protrusions from the endometrium. They appear between day 19 and day 21 of gestational age. This corresponds to a fertilization age of approximately 5 to 7 days, which corresponds well with the time of implantation. They only persist for 2 to 3 days. The development of them is enhanced by progesterone but inhibited by estrogens.\n\nPinopodes endocytose uterine fluid and macromolecules in it. By doing so, the volume of the uterus decreases, taking the walls closer to the embryoblast floating in it. Thus, the period of active pinocytes might also limit the implantation window.\n\nPinopodes continue to absorb fluid, and removes most of it during the early stages of implantation.\n\nNot only the lining of the uterus transforms, but in addition, the secretion from its epithelial glands changes. This change is induced by increased levels of progesterone from the corpus luteum. The target of the secretions is the embryoblast, and has several functions on it.\n\nThe embryoblast spends approximately 72 hours in the uterine cavity before implanting. In that time, it cannot receive nourishment directly from the blood of the mother, and must rely on secreted nutrients into the uterine cavity, e.g. iron and fat-soluble vitamins.\n\nIn addition to nourishment, the endometrium secretes several steroid-dependent proteins, important for growth and implantation. Cholesterol and steroids are also secreted. Implantation is further facilitated by synthesis of matrix substances, adhesion molecules and surface receptors for the matrix substances.\n\nImplantation is initiated when the blastocyst comes into contact with the uterine wall.\n\nTo be able to perform implantation, the blastocyst first needs to get rid of its zona pellucida. This process can be called \"hatching\".\n\nLytic factors in the uterine cavity, as well as factors from the blastocyst itself are essential for this process. Mechanisms in the latter are indicated by that the zona pellucida remains intact if an unfertilized egg is placed in the uterus under the same conditions. A substance probably involved is plasmin. Plasminogen, the plasmin precursor, is found in the uterine cavity, and blastocyst factors contribute to its conversion to active plasmin. This hypothesis is supported by lytic effects in vitro by plasmin. Furthermore, plasmin inhibitors also inhibit the entire zona hatching in rat experiments.\n\nThe very first, albeit loose, connection between the blastocyst and the endometrium is called the apposition.\n\nOn the endometrium, the apposition is usually made where there is a small crypt in it, perhaps because it increases the area of contact with the rather spherical blastocyst.\n\nOn the blastocyst, on the other hand, it occurs at a location where there has been enough lysis of the zona pellucida to have created a rupture to enable direct contact between the underlying trophoblast and the decidua of the endometrium. However, ultimately, the inner cell mass, inside the trophoblast layer, is aligned closest to the decidua. Nevertheless, the apposition on the blastocyst is not dependent on if it is on the same side of the blastocyst as the inner cell mass. Rather, the inner cell mass rotates inside the trophoblast to align to the apposition. In short, the entire surface of the blastocyst has a potential to form the apposition to the decidua.\n\nThe identity of the molecules on the trophoblast and the endometrial epithelia that mediate the initial interaction between the two remain unidentified. However, a number of research groups have proposed that MUC1, a member of the Mucin family of glycosylated proteins, is involved. MUC1 is a transmembrane glycoprotein expressed at the apical surface of endometrial epithelial cells during the window of implantation in humans and has been shown to be differentially expressed between fertile and infertile subjects during this time. MUC1 displays carbohydrate moieties on its extracellular domain that are ligands of L-selectin, a protein expressed on the surface of trophoblast cells. An in vitro model of implantation developed by Genbacev \"et al.,\" gave evidence to support the hypothesis that L-selectin mediates apposition of the blastocyst to the uterine epithelium by interacting with its ligands.\n\nAdhesion is a much stronger attachment to the endometrium than the loose apposition.\n\nThe trophoblasts adhere by penetrating the endometrium, with protrusions of trophoblast cells.\n\nThere is massive communication between the blastocyst and the endometrium at this stage. The blastocyst signals to the endometrium to adapt further to its presence, e.g. by changes in the cytoskeleton of decidual cells. This, in turn, dislodges the decidual cells from their connection to the underlying basal lamina, which enables the blastocyst to perform the succeeding invasion.\n\nThis communication is conveyed by receptor-ligand-interactions, both integrin-matrix and proteoglycan ones.\n\nAnother ligand-receptor system involved in adhesion is proteoglycan receptors, found on the surface of the decidua of the uterus. Their counterparts, the proteoglycans, are found around the trophoblast cells of the blastocyst. This ligand-receptor system also is present just at the implantation window.\n\nInvasion is an even further establishment of the blastocyst in the endometrium.\n\nThe protrusions of trophoblast cells that adhere into the endometrium continue to proliferate and penetrate into the endometrium. As these trophoblast cells penetrate, they differentiate to become a new type of cells, syncytiotrophoblast. The prefix syn- refers to the transformation that occurs as the boundaries between these cells disappear to form a single mass of many cell nuclei (a syncytium). The rest of the trophoblasts, surrounding the inner cell mass, are hereafter called cytotrophoblasts.\n\nInvasion continues with the syncytiotrophoblasts reaching the basal membrane beneath the decidual cells, penetrating it and further invading into the uterine stroma. Finally, the whole embryo is embedded in the endometrium. Eventually, the syncytiotrophoblasts come into contact with maternal blood and form chorionic villi. This is the initiation of forming the placenta.\n\nThe blastocyst secretes factors for a multitude of purposes during invasion. It secretes several autocrine factors, targeting itself and stimulating it to further invade the endometrium. Furthermore, secretions loosen decidual cells from each other, prevent the embryo from being rejected by the mother, trigger the final decidualization and prevent menstruation.\n\nHuman chorionic gonadotropin is an autocrine growth factor for the blastocyst. Insulin-like growth factor 2, on the other hand, stimulates the invasiveness of it.\n\nThe syncytiotrophoblasts dislodges decidual cells in their way, both by degradation of cell adhesion molecules linking the decidual cells together as well as degradation of the extracellular matrix between them.\n\nCell adhesion molecules are degraded by syncytiotrophoblast secretion of Tumor necrosis factor-alpha. This inhibits the expression of cadherins and beta-catenin. Cadherins are cell adhesion molecules, and beta-catenin helps to anchor them to the cell membrane. Inhibited expression of these molecules thus loosens the connection between decidual cells, permitting the syncytotrophoblasts and the whole embryo with them to invade into the endometrium.\n\nThe extracellular matrix is degraded by serine endopeptidases and metalloproteinases. Examples of such metalloproteinases are collagenases, gelatinases and stromelysins. These collagenases digest Type-I collagen, Type-II collagen, Type-III collagen, Type-VII collagen and Type-X collagen. The gelatinases exist in two forms; one digesting Type-IV collagen and one digesting gelatin.\n\nThe embryo differs from the cells of the mother, and would be rejected as a parasite by the immune system of the mother if it didn't secrete immunosuppressive agents. Such agents are Platelet-activating factor, human chorionic gonadotropin, early pregnancy factor, immunosuppressive factor, Prostaglandin E2, Interleukin 1-alpha, Interleukin 6, interferon-alpha, leukemia inhibitory factor and Colony-Stimulating Factor.\n\nFactors from the blastocyst also trigger the final formation of decidual cells into their proper form. In contrast, some decidual cells in the proximity of the blastocyst degenerate, providing nutrients for it.\n\nHuman chorionic gonadotropin (hCG) not only acts as an immunosuppressive, but also \"notifies\" the mother's body that she is pregnant, preventing menstruation by sustaining the function of the corpus luteum.\n\nOther factors secreted by the blastocyst are;\n\n is considered to be caused by inadequate uterine receptivity in two-thirds of cases, and by problems with the embryo itself in the other third.\n\nInadequate uterine receptivity may be caused by abnormal cytokine and hormonal signaling as well as epigenetic alterations. Recurrent implantation failure is a cause of female infertility. Therefore, pregnancy rates can be improved by optimizing endometrial receptivity for implantation. Evaluation of implantation markers may help to predict pregnancy outcome and detect occult implantation deficiency.\n\nLuteal support is the administration of medication, generally progestins, for the purpose of increasing the success rate of implantation and early embryogenesis, thereby complementing the function of the corpus luteum.\n\nIn women with more than 3 implantation failures in assisted reproduction, a review of several small randomized controlled studies estimated that the use of adjunct low molecular weight heparin (LMWH) improves live birth rate by approximately 80%.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "31487496", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31487496", "title": "Infant oral mutilation", "text": "Infant oral mutilation\n\nInfant oral mutilation (IOM) is the dangerous and sometimes fatal traditional or conventional dental malpractice that has been performed for decades in many areas of Africa and in underdeveloped countries.\n\nTypically, a parent may take a sick child to a traditional healer, who will look in the child's mouth and attribute the illness to \"tooth worms\". The healer will point out the small, white, developing tooth buds as being \"tooth worms\", and then dig the \"worms\" out of the gums without anaesthesia using a non-sterile tool such as a hot or sharpened nail, a bicycle spoke, or a knitting needle. The eye teeth are often the ones pointed out, as they are more prominent. The tooth buds are then shown to the parent, their small, milky appearance somewhat resembling worms.\n\nThis practice inflicts pain and suffering on a child who may already be sick (or who may be teething), and in some cases it is carried out on a healthy child in a bid to prevent illness. The procedure may lead to shock, and loss of blood may lead to anaemia. The unhygienic methods can cause blood infections, tetanus, pass on HIV/AIDS, and can on occasion be fatal. The underlying permanent tooth buds can be damaged or eradicated, causing malformations and long term crowding. In addition, the existing illness may not receive the medical attention necessary.\n\nThere is published evidence of IOM occurring in Chad, D.R.Congo, Ethiopia, Kenya, Rwanda, Somalia, Sudan, Tanzania and Uganda. It has also been observed in African immigrants now living in France, Israel, USA, Australia, Norway, New Zealand and the UK. A Literature analysis of the above published papers with full references is available online.\n\n"}
{"id": "18217905", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18217905", "title": "Institute for Social Security and Services for State Workers", "text": "Institute for Social Security and Services for State Workers\n\nThe Mexican Civil Service Social Security and Services Institute (, or ISSSTE) is a federal government organization in Mexico that administers part of Mexico's health care and social security systems, and provides assistance in cases of disability, old age, risks in labor, and death (or IVCM, for \"invalidez, vejez, cesantía en edad avanzada, y muerte\") to federal workers. Unlike the Mexican Social Security Institute (or IMSS), which covers workers in the private sector, the ISSSTE is charged with providing benefits for federal government workers only. Together with the IMSS, the ISSSTE provides health coverage for between 55 and 60 percent of the population of Mexico.\n\nLike much of Mexico's health care system, the ISSSTE has been the subject of numerous criticisms and allegations, ranging from corruption to a heavy regional bias in favor of major cities with well organized labor unions.\n\nIt was founded in 1959 by president Adolfo López Mateos.\n\nIn addition to ISSSTE, which is exclusive for employees of the federal government, states in Mexico have their own separate health and retirement system for government workers within its own state. For example, the state of Tabasco offers its employees retirement, health, and other similar benefits through an agency called \"Instituto de Seguridad Social del Estado de Tabasco\", or \"ISSET\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "21254575", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21254575", "title": "International Journal of Oral and Maxillofacial Surgery", "text": "International Journal of Oral and Maxillofacial Surgery\n\nThe International Journal of Oral and Maxillofacial Surgery is a peer-reviewed medical journal covering oral and maxillofacial surgery, oral pathology, and related topics. It is published monthly by Elsevier for the International Association of Oral and Maxillofacial Surgeons.\n"}
{"id": "51796251", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51796251", "title": "Intraductal papillary neoplasm of the bile duct", "text": "Intraductal papillary neoplasm of the bile duct\n\nIntraductal papillary neoplasm of the bile duct, also known as intraductal papillary biliary neoplasm, is a rare type of liver cancer.\n"}
{"id": "7502807", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7502807", "title": "Inversion therapy", "text": "Inversion therapy\n\nInversion therapy involves being upside down or at an inverted angle while hanging by the legs, ankles, or feet with the intention of therapeutic benefits. The process of doing so is called inversion. It is a form of spinal decompression and is a form of spinal traction. Gravity boots are ankle supports designed for inversion therapy. Some people use gravity boots to add an extra challenge to workouts, doing inverted crunches or squats.\n\nPeople who have heart disease, high blood pressure, eye diseases (such as glaucoma), or are pregnant are at higher risk for the dangers related to inversion therapy and should consult their doctors about it first. The first time anyone tries inversion therapy with gravity, they should be sure to have someone standing by, in case assistance is required to get out of the apparatus, or if health problems are experienced.\n\nDuring an episode of acid reflux, small amounts of stomach acid may manage to escape from the stomach and into the oesophagus. Typically, gravity minimises this upward leakage but combining an inversion table and acid reflux can be a painful, nauseating, and potentially dangerous combination.\n"}
{"id": "1888475", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1888475", "title": "Irish Hospitals' Sweepstake", "text": "Irish Hospitals' Sweepstake\n\nThe Irish Hospitals' Sweepstake was a lottery established in the Irish Free State in 1930 as the Irish Free State Hospitals' Sweepstake to finance hospitals. It is generally referred to as the Irish Sweepstake, frequently abbreviated to Irish Sweeps or Irish Sweep. The Public Charitable Hospitals (Temporary Provisions) Act, 1930 was the act that established the lottery; as this act expired in 1934, in accordance with its terms, the Public Hospitals Acts were the legislative basis for the scheme thereafter. The main organisers were Richard Duggan, Captain Spencer Freeman and Joe McGrath. Duggan was a well known Dublin bookmaker who had organised a number of sweepstakes in the decade prior to setting up the Hospitals' Sweepstake. Captain Freeman was a Welsh-born engineer and former captain in the British Army. After the Constitution of Ireland was enacted in 1937, the name \"Irish Hospitals' Sweepstake\" was adopted.\n\nThe sweepstake was established because there was a need for investment in hospitals and medical services and the public finances were unable to meet this expense at the time. As the population of Ireland was unable to raise sufficient funds, because of its low population, a significant amount of the funds were raised in the United Kingdom and United States, often among the emigrant Irish. Potentially winning tickets were drawn from rotating drums, usually by nurses in uniform. Each such ticket was assigned to a horse expected to run in one of several horse races, including the Cambridgeshire Handicap, Derby and Grand National. Tickets that drew the favourite horses thus stood a higher likelihood of winning and a series of winning horses had to be chosen on the accumulator system, allowing for enormous prizes.\nThe original sweepstake draws were held at The Mansion House, Dublin on 19 May 1939 under the supervision of the Chief Commissioner of Police, and were moved to the more permanent fixture at the Royal Dublin Society (RDS) in Ballsbridge later in 1940.\n\nThe Adelaide Hospital in Dublin was the only hospital at the time not to accept money from the Hospitals Trust, as the governors disapproved of sweepstakes.\n\nFrom the 1960s onwards, revenues declined. Although giving the appearance of a public charitable lottery, with nurses featured prominently in the advertising and drawings, the Sweepstake was in fact a private for-profit lottery company, and the owners were paid substantial dividends from the profits. \"Fortune Magazine\" described it as \"a private company run for profit and its handful of stockholders have used their earnings from the sweepstakes to build a group of industrial enterprises that loom quite large in the modest Irish economy. Waterford Glass, Irish Glass Bottle Company and many other new Irish companies were financed by money from this enterprise and up to 5,000 people were given jobs.\" By his death in 1966, Joe McGrath had interests in the racing industry, and held the Renault dealership for Ireland besides large financial and property assets. He was known throughout Ireland for his tough business attitude but also by his generous spirit. At that time, Ireland was still one of the poorer countries in Europe; he believed in investment in Ireland. His home, Cabinteely House, was donated to the state in 1986. The house and the surrounding park are now in the ownership of Dún Laoghaire–Rathdown County Council who have invested in restoring and maintaining the house and grounds as a public park.\n\nIn 1986, the Irish government created a new public lottery, and the company failed to secure the new contract to manage it. The final sweepstake was held in January 1986 and the company was unsuccessful for a licence bid for the Irish National Lottery, which was won by An Post later that year. The company went into voluntary liquidation in March 1987. The majority of workers did not have a pension scheme but the sweepstake had fed many families during lean times and was regarded as a safe job. The Public Hospitals (Amendment) Act, 1990 was enacted for the orderly winding up of the scheme, which had by then almost £500,000 in unclaimed prizes and accrued interest.\n\nA collection of advertising material relating to the Irish Hospitals' Sweepstakes is among the Special Collections of National Irish Visual Arts Library. \n\nAt the time of the Sweepstake's inception, lotteries were generally illegal in the United Kingdom, the United States and Canada. In the absence of other readily available lotteries, the Irish Sweeps became popular. Even though tickets were illegal outside Ireland, millions were sold in the US and Great Britain. How many of these tickets failed to make it back for the drawing is unknown. The United States Customs Service alone confiscated and destroyed several million s from shipments being returned to Ireland.\n\nIn the UK, the sweepstakes caused some strain in Anglo-Irish relations, and the Betting and Lotteries Act 1934 was passed by the parliament of the UK to prevent export and import of lottery related materials. The United States Congress had outlawed the use of the US Postal Service for lottery purposes in 1890. A thriving black market sprang up for tickets in both jurisdictions.\n\nFrom the 1950s onwards, as the American, British and Canadian governments relaxed their attitudes towards this form of gambling, and went into the lottery business themselves, the Irish Sweeps, never legal in the United States, declined in popularity.\n\n\nPhotographs taken in 1939 of the Irish Sweepstake Building, Ballsbridge, Dublin; from the collection of the Royal Institute of British Architects:\n\n"}
{"id": "48642358", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48642358", "title": "Jan McFarlane", "text": "Jan McFarlane\n\nJanet Elizabeth \"Jan\" McFarlane (born 25 November 1964) is a British Church of England bishop and former Speech and Language Therapist. She has been the Bishop of Repton (the suffragan bishop of the Diocese of Derby) since her consecration as a bishop on 29 June 2016; and additionally Acting Bishop of Derby since 31 August 2018. She was previously Diocesan Director of Communications in the Diocese of Norwich from 1999 and Archdeacon of Norwich from 2009.\n\nJan McFarlane was born on 25 November 1964 in Stoke-on-Trent, Staffordshire, England. She was educated at Blythe Bridge High School, a state secondary school in Blythe Bridge near Stoke-on-Trent. She studied at the University of Sheffield, graduating with a Bachelor of Medical Science (BMedSci) degree in 1987. She then worked as a Speech Therapist in the National Health Service and lived in North Staffordshire. She specialised in teaching deaf children to speak.\n\nHaving been selected for ordination, Jan McFarlane underwent a number of years of formation. She studied theology at St John's College, Durham, and graduated from the University of Durham with a Bachelor of Arts (BA) degree in 1992. She then underwent a further year of training at Cranmer Hall, Durham, an open evangelical Anglican theological college, completing a Diploma in Ministry (DipMin) in 1993.\n\nMcFarlane was ordained in the Church of England as a deacon in 1993 at Lichfield Cathedral. From 1993 to 1994, she served as parish deacon in the Stafford Team Ministry in the Diocese of Lichfield. She was ordained as a priest in 1994. She was one of the first female priests as 1994 was the first year that the Church of England ordained women to the priesthood. From 1994 to 1996, she remained in the Stafford to serve her curacy as part of the Stafford Team Ministry. From 1996 to 1999, she was a chaplain and minor canon of Ely Cathedral in the Diocese of Ely.\n\nIn 1999, she moved to the Diocese of Norwich to take up the appointment of Diocesan Director of Communications. From 2001 to 2009, she was additionally chaplain to Graham James, the Bishop of Norwich. She was selected as the next Archdeacon of Norwich in 2008. On 15 March 2009, she was installed as Archdeacon in Norwich Cathedral. Upon her appointment, she became one of only nine female archdeacons out of a total of 112 in the Church of England and the first in her diocese. From 2015, she also served as Warden of Readers for the diocese.\n\nJan McFarlane was first elected to the General Synod of the Church of England in 2005. She is a supporter of the ordination of women as bishops. She was a member of the General Synod that approved the consecration of women to the episcopate.\n\nOn 26 February 2016, Jan McFarlane was announced as the next Bishop of Repton, suffragan bishop in the Diocese of Derby. She was consecrated a bishop by Justin Welby, Archbishop of Canterbury, on 29 June 2016. She was welcomed into the Diocese of Derby as Bishop of Repton on 7 September 2016, during service at Derby Cathedral.\n\nIn 2004, McFarlane married Andrew Ridoutt. Her husband works as a television cameraman.\n\nIn February 2014, McFarlane was diagnosed with breast cancer. As part of her treatment, she underwent surgery, chemotherapy and radiotherapy. She shared her story with a local newspaper, the \"Eastern Daily Press\", and \"urged other cancer patients to not hide away from the disease\".\n\n"}
{"id": "40684271", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40684271", "title": "Joseph A. Bonanno", "text": "Joseph A. Bonanno\n\nJoseph A. Bonanno is an American optometrist.\n\nBonanno obtained his master's degree in 1977 from the University of California, Berkeley in biology and four years later got his O.D. degree. Six years later he received his Ph.D. in physiological optics from the same place and was hired as a postdoc at the Louisiana State University where he worked from 1987 to 1988. Later on, he returned to Berkley, to his alma-mater, where for a year, he worked at the department of physiology and anatomy. In 1989 he became an assistant professor at the University of California, Berkeley School of Optometry and by 1997 became a professor. In July 1998 he became a faculty member of the Indiana University School of Optometry where as a professor he taught biochemistry and corneal physiology. \n\nFrom January 2005 to August 2007 he worked as an associate dean at the same place and later held the same position at the Academic Affairs and Student Administration. As of 2017, Bonanno is the Dean of the Indiana University School of Optometry.\n\nCurrently he is a fellow at the American Academy of Optometry and a member at both the \"Association for Research\" in vision and ophthalmology and the American Physiological Society.\n"}
{"id": "36568033", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36568033", "title": "Juan Cotumba", "text": "Juan Cotumba\n\nJuan Cotumba Coa (born January 21, 1980 in Potosí) is a Bolivian road bicycle racer. He is the winner of the 2011 Vuelta a Bolivia and 2014 Vuelta al Sur de Bolivia races.\n\nOn 17 August 2014 Cotumba gave an adverse analytical finding for Furosemide and was subsequently banned for one year, allowing his return no sooner than 16 August 2015.\n"}
{"id": "12280374", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12280374", "title": "Length time bias", "text": "Length time bias\n\nLength time bias is a form of selection bias, a statistical distortion of results that can lead to incorrect conclusions about the data. Length time bias can occur when the lengths of intervals are analysed by selecting intervals that occupy randomly chosen points in time or space. That process favors longer intervals and so skews the data.\n\nLength time bias is often discussed in the context of the benefits of cancer screening, and it can lead to the perception that screening leads to better outcomes when in reality it has no effect. Fast-growing tumors generally have a shorter asymptomatic phase than slower-growing tumors. Thus, there is a shorter period of time during which the cancer is present in the body (and so might be detected by screening) but not yet large enough to cause symptoms, that would cause the patient to seek medical care and be diagnosed without screening.\n\nAs a result, if the same number of slow-growing and fast-growing tumors appear in a year, the screening test detects more slow-growers than fast-growers. If the slow growing tumors are less likely to be fatal than the fast growers, the people whose cancer is detected by screening do better, on average, than the people whose tumors are detected from symptoms (or at autopsy) even if there is no real benefit to catching the cancer earlier. That can give the impression that detecting cancers by screening causes cancers to be less dangerous even if less dangerous cancers are simply more likely to be detected by screening.\n"}
{"id": "39554850", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39554850", "title": "List of United Nations resolutions concerning Western Sahara", "text": "List of United Nations resolutions concerning Western Sahara\n\nUnited Nations documents related to decolonization of Spanish Sahara, the Western Sahara conflict, Moroccan military occupation, Sahrawi refugees, and the establishment of MINURSO.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "280994", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=280994", "title": "Mammaplasty", "text": "Mammaplasty\n\nMammaplasty (also called mammoplasty or mastoplasty) refers to a group of surgical procedures, the goal of which is to reshape or otherwise modify the appearance of the breast. There are two main types of mammoplasty:\n\nMammaplasty started out a surgical procedure to help relieve women of the excess weight of their breasts, it was only later that it was used for cosmetic purposes. There is immense pressure on women to subscribe to socially prescribed beauty standards of their bodies must be, a part of this is the pressure on women to have 'perfect breasts'. Earlier records of such surgery were either for medical purposes or to make a person fit in more easily with a certain social group. It was in the beginning of the 20th century that Hippolyte Morestin and Eugene Hollander started breast reduction (reduction mammoplasty) for beauty purposes only. By the 1930s though, breast reduction had majorly become more of aesthetic surgery than reconstructive surgery.\n\nIt is still however used for medical purposes and female celebrities vocally getting such surgery has allowed for more to undertake it and speak up openly about it, a recent example of it being Ariel Winters, who plays Alex in Modern Family, undergoing breast reduction surgery after years of back and neck pain. \n\nResearch has indicated that breast reduction surgery, for women who are at high risk for breast cancer, may serve as an effective primary prevention strategy for tackling breast cancer and is not shown to increase chances of the breast cancer coming back or making it harder to check this through a mammography. As opposed to mastectomy, therapeutic mammoplasty has emerged as way to address breast cancer in women with larger breasts and where early breast cancer is detected, this helps align with the cosmetic needs of the person in question and has positive health benefits as well.\n\nA concern for breast cancer survivors can be the physical appearance of their breasts after the surgical procedures required to cure breast cancer in several cases. Reconstructive mammaplasty is breast reconstruction that is done after mastectomy to give the breasts an appearance that is more normal/familiar. Some factors that are considered before deciding whether such surgery would be apt are the size and shape of the breasts before operation, the amount of tissue remaining after the mastectomy, chance of the cancer returning, and what the mastectomy scar looks like and where it is. Mammoplasty has also evolved as a way for women to address physical changes that mastectomy brings about to their bodies. Surgery to reconstruct the breasts can be started along with the mastectomy or after the body has healed from the mastectomy. \n\nMammograms in general are not performed on reconstructed breasts that have had implants, it is recommended that a woman who has had a breast implant let the radiology technician know of it, before a mammogram, as special steps may be necessary for ensuring correct results and not causing harm to the implant. \n"}
{"id": "18828730", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18828730", "title": "National Occupational Research Agenda", "text": "National Occupational Research Agenda\n\nThe National Occupational Research Agenda (NORA) is a partnership program developed by the National Institute for Occupational Safety and Health (NIOSH). The program was founded in 1996 to provide a framework for research collaborations among universities, large and small businesses, professional societies, government agencies, and worker organizations. Together these parties identify issues in the field of workplace safety and health that require immediate attention based on the number of workers affected, the seriousness of the hazard, and the likelihood that new safety information and approaches can effect a change.\n\nDr. Linda Rosenstock was appointed director of NIOSH in 1994. At that time many saw the Institute as an agency that yielded strong scientific research, but needed stronger connections to the real-world workforce. To remedy this, Rosenstock sought to develop stronger relationships with other organizations and agencies. NIOSH moved its headquarters from Atlanta to Washington, D.C., where the Institute could enjoy closer contact with labor and industry representatives. NIOSH's effort to build partnerships inside and outside of the government culminated in the development of the National Occupational Research Agenda. \n\nTo form the agenda, NIOSH leaders petitioned stakeholders in industry, labor, and health care for input. Organizations including General Motors, IBM, Mobil, the United Auto Workers, and the American Public Health Association joined NIOSH in developing the agenda. NIOSH sought additional aid through a series of public town meetings held in Chicago, Seattle, and Boston. In total, nearly 500 organizations and individuals provided the input that resulted in the research agenda.\n\nNIOSH announced NORA's 21 priority research areas in 1996. On the strength of industry support and bipartisan backing, Congress increased funding for NIOSH and investment in NORA grew from $15.4 million in 1996 to $72.3 million in 1999. Following Rosenstock's resignation in 2000, Dr. John Howard continued to press and expand the NORA approach as NIOSH's new director. Periodically, the structure of the program is evaluated and updated as needed. Since 1996, NORA's projects have covered topics such as slip, trip, and fall (STF) injuries; green tobacco sickness; extended work hours; latex allergies; vehicle and mobile equipment-related injury; silica, lung cancer, and respiratory disease; and biomechanical stress in drywall installation.\n\nSince 2006, the program has been organized by industrial sector as defined in the North American Industry Classification System. NORA sector councils, which head the research for the sectors, help to implement the national research agenda. The accomplishments of the second decade of NORA are described in a report published in 2017. NORA councils consists of participants from various backgrounds, affiliations and expertise, including stakeholders from universities, large and small businesses, professional associations, government agencies, and worker organizations. Councils present the opportunity to maximize resources towards improved occupational safety and health nationwide. They help build close partnerships among members and broader collaborations between councils and other organizations. The resulting information sharing and leveraging efforts helps promote widespread adoption of improved workplace practices based on research results. The NORA industry sector councils for the 2016-2026 decade are as follows:\n\n\nIn addition, NIOSH identified seven cross-sectors which focus on the health and safety issues affecting workers within each sector. The current NORA health outcome cross-sectors include:\n\nTo aid with goal-setting, NORA uses specific guidelines to determine which research needs are priorities, by using use concepts of burden, need, and impact criteria to write research goals that go into NORA Sector and Cross-Sector Agendas. These guidelines basically address these aspects:\n\nEvery ten years, NIOSH reviews the activities, outcomes, and impacts of work completed over the past NORA decade and completes a report of those accomplishments. The first decade report evaluated contributions from 1996-2006, while the second decade report reviewed activities from 2006-2016. NORA's third decade will occur from 2016-2026.\n\nTo ensure a continued focus on the practical application of the research, NIOSH cosponsored NORA Symposiums in 1999, 2003, 2006, and 2008. The 2008 NORA Symposium—\"Public Market for Ideas and Partnerships\"—was the first not held in the Washington, D.C., area. Instead it was hosted in Denver, reflecting NIOSH's desire to expand occupational research collaborations in the Western United States. \n\nNorth American Industry Classification System (NAICS), U.S. Census Bureau. \n"}
{"id": "54043891", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54043891", "title": "National Rehabilitation Hospital (Dublin)", "text": "National Rehabilitation Hospital (Dublin)\n\nThe National Rehabilitation Hospital (NRH) in Dún Laoghaire, Dublin, is an Irish publicly funded hospital that provides rehabilitation treatment for patients who have a physical or cognitive disability due to illness or injury. Although it is funded by the state the hospital is owned by a Catholic religious order, the Sisters of Mercy.\n\nThe Health Service Executive has been criticised for staff shortages at the hospital which caused twelve beds to be unavailable in March 2017 in spite of a waiting list of over 200 patients seeking admission. The hospital has a total of 110 beds but is said to be under-resourced according to advocacy organisation \"An Soal\" as well as senior staff of the hospital. Funding for an additional 120 beds was approved in 2015.\n"}
{"id": "13750150", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13750150", "title": "New Zealand Blood Service", "text": "New Zealand Blood Service\n\nThe New Zealand Blood Service (abbrev: NZBS, in te reo Māori: ) is the provider of blood services for New Zealand.\n\nNZBS is a Crown entity responsible to New Zealand’s Parliament.\n\nNew Zealand Blood Service was formed on 1 July 1998, when the Health Amendment Act 1998 was passed by Parliament. It became the appointed entity for all blood in New Zealand, holding responsibility for all blood from collection to distribution to clinician ('vein-to-vein' for blood), and for other controlled human tissues.\n\nApproximately 29,000 New Zealanders need blood or blood products every year and 4% of New Zealanders donate.\n\nNew Zealand Blood Service has four key roles:\n\nBlood collection, based on voluntary, unpaid donations;\n\nProcessing of blood donations, by separating blood donations into blood components;\n\nAccreditation testing of blood donations, to minimise risk to the recipients of blood and blood products;\n\nBlood Banking at hospital-based laboratories, where blood products are tested pre-transfusion and matched to each individual patient.\n\nNew Zealand Blood Service carefully plans and forecasts demand from hospitals and uses this to calculate the number of appointments and donations required for the week, based on blood type. Blood type is key, as donations are matched to the blood types of the patients being treated in hospitals.\n\nEach year New Zealand Blood Service collects approximately 120,000 whole blood donations, 22,000 plasma donations and 18,000 units of platelets.\n\nNew Zealand Blood Service has nine Donor Centres around New Zealand and runs over 300 mobile blood drives each year. The Donor Centres are in Auckland (Epsom, Manukau and North Shore), Hamilton, Tauranga, Palmerston North, Wellington, Christchurch and Dunedin. Mobile blood drives take place in community halls, education centres and workplaces.\n\nIn order to minimise risk for recipients of blood and blood products, New Zealand Blood Service has detailed eligibility criteria in place for potential donors. These include a donor’s age, weight, health and travel history.\n\nWhole blood donors can donate at a mobile blood drive or any of the nine Donor Centres. Plasma and platelet donations require an apheresis machine and so can only be made at eight Donor Centres with these facilities (all except Manukau).\n\nBlood donations are processed at four sites; Auckland, Hamilton, Wellington and Christchurch. These sites collectively process around 160,000 donations each year.\n\nProcessing involves the separation of blood donations into blood components: red cells, platelets and plasma.\n\nAccreditation testing is centralised in Auckland and Christchurch. Accreditation testing of all blood donations involves two distinct processes: blood grouping and screening for infectious markers.\n\nBlood Banks are the pre-transfusion testing laboratories where blood products are matched to suit each individual patient. This includes determining the patient's blood type and matching this with appropriate products.\n\nBlood Banks are always located at the hospitals and are often staffed after hours to meet any urgent need for blood.\n\nNZBS operates six Blood Banks in six cities from Auckland to Dunedin, and another 28 District Health Board (DHB) Blood Bank laboratories also perform pre-transfusion testing in line with defined quality standards.\n"}
{"id": "44126793", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44126793", "title": "Noakhali Medical Assistant Training School (MATS)", "text": "Noakhali Medical Assistant Training School (MATS)\n\nNoakhali Medical Assistant Training School provides 3 years course and 1-year internship Medical Assistant Training courses under Directorate General of Health Services (DGHS). Noakhali MATS is one of the eight others MATS along with Bagerhat, Kushtia, Shirajgonj, Tangail, Comilla, Faridpur and Jhinaidah.\n"}
{"id": "1196484", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1196484", "title": "Orderly", "text": "Orderly\n\nIn healthcare, an orderly (also known as a ward assistant, nurse assistant or healthcare assistant) is a hospital attendant whose job consists of assisting medical and nursing staff with various nursing and medical interventions. The highest role of an orderly is that of an operations assistant. An operations assistant requires people of a higher caliber to be knowledgeable in advanced medical terminology and assisting with specialist surgery set ups, typically an operations assistant understands more about surgical procedures than that of a registered nurse working outside of theatres. An operations assistant is more of a direct assistant to consultant level doctors than that of nurses. These duties are classified as routine tasks involving no risk for the patient.\n\nOrderlies are often utilized in various hospital departments. Orderly duties can range in scope depending on the area of the health care facility they are employed. For that reason, duties can range from assisting in the physical restraint of combative patients, assisting physicians with the application of casts, transporting patients, shaving patients and providing other similar routine personal care to setting up specialised hospital equipment such as bed traction arrays.\n\nOrderlies are typically found in emergency departments, operating rooms, psychiatry, long term care, and orthopaedics.\n\nOrderlies are described as non licensed hospital assistants that are instructed to perform delegated functions under the direct supervision of a licensed practitioner in the health care setting. While the role of nursing has traditionally been filled by women, most orderlies are men, as they may be asked to assist nurses in physically demanding procedures.\n\nIn the US, orderlies have been phased out of health care facilities in recent years and their functions are now replaced by the patient care assistant and Certified Nursing Assistant. They remain common in Canada and other countries.\n\nOrderlies in UK hospitals were known as \"attendants\" (primarily in lunatic asylums), but that role has been phased out. The nearest role left to a male hospital assistant is that of porter, but that is more a logistical role, moving patients and equipment around the hospital. This is not to be confused with healthcare assistants (HCAs) who are essentially carers for patients (not qualified or licensed health care professionals), and may be of both sexes.\n\nA common set up among hospitals in Australia is seen at the Royal Adelaide Hospital in Adelaide, South Australia. At the RAH the orderly service is contracted to Spotless, a national corporation. There are around 80 orderlies employed by Spotless at the Royal Adelaide alone. Here, they are tasked with the movement of patients and equipment between wards and departments, the movement of patients from ambulances in triage, the movement of patients from MedStar retrieval helicopters that land at the hospital, the movement of deceased patients to the mortuary and various other tasks. They respond to every MET (medical emergency team) call that originates within the hospital to provide extra oxygen and so that the patient is able to be moved to another area (such as the intensive care unit) as soon as is required. The orderlies are dispatched using pager-radio combos. Some orderlies are stationed at particular departments such as radiology and theatre/recovery but most are in the \"pool\" and are dispatched throughout the hospital. In The Royal Brisbane and Womans Hospital in Queensland, orderlies are called patient support officers or PSOs. Controversially, PSOs are required to do all cleaning within the hospital, leading to an outcry from staff that the practice is unsafe because PSOs have to not only clean, but also take care of the patient handling, leading to a possible increase in the spread of infection.\n\nIn Canada, orderlies are called Nursing assistants, PCA (personal care attendants), PSW (personal support workers) and health care aids (HCA).\n\n"}
{"id": "16081225", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16081225", "title": "Overgrowth syndrome", "text": "Overgrowth syndrome\n\nOvergrowth syndromes in children constitute a group of rare disorders that are typical of tissue hypertrophy. Individual overgrowth syndromes have been shown to overlap with regard to clinical and radiologic features. The details of the genetic bases of these syndromes are unfolding. Any of the three embryonic tissue layers may be involved.The syndromes may manifest in localized or generalized tissue overgrowth. Latitudinal and longitudinal growth may be affected. Nevertheless, the musculoskeletal features are central to the diagnosis of some syndromes such as Proteus syndrome. The time of presentation of children with overgrowth syndromes is an important contributor to the differential diagnosis. Children with some overgrowth syndromes such as Klippel-Trenaunay-Weber syndrome can be readily detectable at birth. In contrast other overgrowth syndromes such as Proteus syndrome usually present in the postnatal period characteristically between the 2nd and 3rd year of life. In general, children with overgrowth syndromes are at increased risk of embryonic tumor development.\n\nExamples of overgrowth syndromes include:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1652184", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1652184", "title": "Papain", "text": "Papain\n\nPapain, also known as papaya proteinase I, is a cysteine protease () enzyme present in papaya (\"Carica papaya\") and mountain papaya (\"Vasconcellea cundinamarcensis\").\n\nPapain belongs to a family of related proteins with a wide variety of activities, including endopeptidases, aminopeptidases, dipeptidyl peptidases and enzymes with both exo- and endo-peptidase activity. Members of the papain family are widespread, found in baculoviruses, eubacteria, yeast, and practically all protozoa, plants and mammals. The proteins are typically lysosomal or secreted, and proteolytic cleavage of the propeptide is required for enzyme activation, although bleomycin hydrolase is cytosolic in fungi and mammals. Papain-like cysteine proteinases are essentially synthesised as inactive proenzymes (zymogens) with N-terminal propeptide regions. The activation process of these enzymes includes the removal of propeptide regions, which serve a variety of functions \"in vivo\" and \"in vitro\". The pro-region is required for the proper folding of the newly synthesised enzyme, the inactivation of the peptidase domain and stabilisation of the enzyme against denaturing at neutral to alkaline pH conditions. Amino acid residues within the pro-region mediate their membrane association, and play a role in the transport of the proenzyme to lysosomes. Among the most notable features of propeptides is their ability to inhibit the activity of their cognate enzymes and that certain propeptides exhibit high selectivity for inhibition of the peptidases from which they originate.\n\nThe papain precursor protein contains 345 amino acid residues, and consists of a signal sequence (1-18), a propeptide (19-133) and the mature peptide (134-345). The amino acid numbers are based on the mature peptide. The protein is stabilised by three disulfide bridges. Its three-dimensional structure consists of two distinct structural domains with a cleft between them. This cleft contains the active site, which contains a catalytic diad that has been likened to the catalytic triad of chymotrypsin. The catalytic triad is made up of the amino acids - cysteine-25 (from which it gets its classification) and histidine-159. Aspartate-158 was thought to play a role analogous to the role of aspartate in the serine protease catalytic triad, but that has since been disproved. \n\nThe mechanism by which papain breaks peptide bonds involves the use of a catalytic triad with a deprotonated cysteine. Asn-175 helps to orient the imidazole ring of His-159 to allow it to deprotonate the catalytic Cys-25. This cysteine then performs a nucleophilic attack on the carbonyl carbon of a peptide backbone. This forms a covalent acyl-enzyme intermediate and frees the amino terminus of the peptide. The enzyme is deacylated by a water molecule and releases the carboxy terminal portion of the peptide. In immunology, papain is known to cleave the Fc (crystallisable) portion of immunoglobulins (antibodies) from the Fab (antigen-binding) portion.\n\nPapain is a relatively heat-resistant enzyme, with an optimal temperature range of 60 and 70 °C.\n\nPapain prefers to cleave at: (hydrophobic)-(Arg or Lys)- cleaves here -(not Val). Hydrophobic is Ala, Val, Leu, Ile, Phe, Trp, or Tyr.\n\nPapain breaks down tough meat fibres, and has been used for thousands of years to tenderise meat eaten in its native South America. Meat tenderisers in powder form with papain as an active component are widely sold.\n\nPapain can be used to dissociate cells in the first step of cell culture preparations. A ten-minute treatment of small tissue pieces (less than 1 mm cubed) will allow papain to begin cleaving the extracellular matrix molecules holding the cells together. After ten minutes, the tissue should be treated with a protease inhibitor solution to stop the protease action. Left untreated, papain activity will lead to complete lysis of the cells. The tissue must then be triturated (passed quickly up and down through a Pasteur pipette) to break up the pieces of tissue into a single cell suspension.\n\nIt is also used as an ingredient in various enzymatic debriding preparations, notably Accuzyme. These are used in the care of some chronic wounds to clean up dead tissue.\n\nPapain is added to some toothpastes and mint sweets as a tooth whitener. Its whitening effect is, however, minimal because the papain is present in low concentrations and is quickly diluted by saliva. It would take several months of use to have a noticeable effect.\n\nPapain is the main ingredient of Papacarie, a gel used for chemomechanical dental caries removal. It does not require drilling and does not interfere in the bond strength of restorative materials to dentin.\n\nPapain has been known to interfere with urine drug tests for cannabinoids. It is found in some drug detox products.\n\nRecently, it has been demonstrated that papain can be used to assemble thin films of titania used in photovoltaic cells.<ref name=\"doi:10.1039/C8TB00381E\"></ref>\n\nAn antibody digested by papain yields three fragments: two 50 kDa Fab fragments and one 50kDa Fc fragment. The papain-digested antibody is unable to promote agglutination, precipitation, opsonization, and lysis.\n\nPapain is usually produced as a crude, dried material by collecting the latex from the fruit of the papaya tree. The latex is collected after scoring the neck of the fruit, where it may either dry on the fruit or drip into a container. This latex is then further dried. It is now classified as a dried, crude material. A purification step is necessary to remove contaminating substances. This purification consists of the solubilization and extraction of the active papain enzyme system through a government-registered process. This purified papain may be supplied as powder or as liquid.\n\nOn September 23, 2008, the US Food and Drug Administration (FDA) warned companies to stop marketing ophthalmic balanced salt solutions and topical drug products containing papain by November 4, 2008. The FDA said, \"Papain-containing drug products in topical form historically have been marketed without approval...\". According to the FDA's statement on the subject, \"These unapproved products have put consumers' health in jeopardy, from reports of permanent vision loss with unapproved balanced salt solutions to a serious drop in blood pressure and increased heart rate from the topical papain products,\" said Janet Woodcock, M.D., director for the Center for Drug Evaluation and Research.\n\nTopical drug ointments containing papain are used to remove dead or contaminated tissue in acute and chronic lesions, such as diabetic ulcers, pressure ulcers, varicose ulcers, and traumatic infected wounds. Trade names for these products include Accuzyme, Allanfil, Allanzyme, Ethezyme, Gladase, Kovia, Panafil, Pap Urea, and Ziox. Other products are marketed under the names of the active ingredients, for instance, papain-urea ointment.\n\nIn 2008 the FDA announced its intention to take action against these products because it had received reports of serious adverse events in patients using products containing papain. Reports included hypersensitivity (allergic) reactions that lead to hypotension (low blood pressure) and tachycardia (rapid heart rate). In addition, people allergic to latex can also be allergic to papaya, the source of papain, implying that people with latex sensitivity may be at increased risk of suffering an adverse reaction to a topical papain drug product.\n\nFDA recommended that people with concerns about using topical papain preparations contact their health care provider about discontinuing use.\n\nCTSB; CTSC; CTSF; CTSH; CTSK; CTSL1; CTSL2;\nCTSL3; CTSO; CTSS; CTSW; CTSZ;\n\n\n"}
{"id": "32301237", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32301237", "title": "Partner services", "text": "Partner services\n\nPartner services is a public health term which refers to the health intervention given to a client's intimate partners when a client goes to a health care provider requesting health care. \n\nPartner notification is a type of partner service, wherein if someone has a contagious disease, the health care provider finding the problem will try to notify that person's partners that they have been exposed to infection. It is a form of contact tracing.\n\nPartner services are important because in some cases a person's health problems are partially caused or sustained by other people. A common example would be that a person visits a doctor because he has an infectious disease. If that disease is also contagious, then that person's close associates may also have the disease. If a physician were to only treat the person who initially requests treatment, then the disease may remain in the community. Instead, principles of partner services dictate that health care should treat all members of a group which transmits infection.\n\nPartner services are frequently discussed in the treatment of sexually transmitted infections (STI). If one person has a sexually transmitted infection, then any sexual partner that person has is at risk to get that infection. A common practice after identifying a person who has an STI is to ask that person to identify any sexual partners so that the clinic can contact them and arrange for them to receive STI testing, treatment, and counseling.\n\nAnother example is the case in which two people are in an intimate relationship, such as a marriage. One partner may be dissatisfied with the relationship and seek counseling. In this case, the counselor may advise that if the other partner in the relationship does not also participate in counseling then improvement in the relationship might be difficult. In this case, the counselor would assist the person making the complaint in arranging partner services.\n\nPublic health offices are often directed to offer partner services for sexually transmitted infections, including the following: \n\nMental health professionals often recommend partner services when clients express interest in treatment for many problems, including the following:\n\nThe intention is that often a person will benefit from the support of close friends, family, and significant others when getting treatment for a mental problem.\n\nPartner services help the original client have better health, and improve the health of that client's close associates, and benefit the community by relieving the burden of retaining an infectious reservoir of endemic health problems.\n\n"}
{"id": "592949", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=592949", "title": "Pharmacognosy", "text": "Pharmacognosy\n\nPharmacognosy is the study of medicinal drugs derived from plants or other natural sources. The American Society of Pharmacognosy defines pharmacognosy as \"the study of the physical, chemical, biochemical and biological properties of drugs, drug substances or potential drugs or drug substances of natural origin as well as the search for new drugs from natural sources\".\nIt is also defined as the study of crude drugs.\n\nThe word \"pharmacognosy\" is derived from two Greek words: \"φάρμακον\" pharmakon (drug), and γνῶσις \"gnosis\" (knowledge). The term \"pharmacognosy\" was used for the first time by the Austrian physician Schmidt in 1811 and 1815 by Crr. Anotheus Seydler in work titled \"Analecta Pharmacognostica\".\n\nOriginally—during the 19th century and the beginning of the 20th century—\"pharmacognosy\" was used to define the branch of medicine or commodity sciences (\"Warenkunde\" in German) which deals with drugs in their crude, or unprepared, form. Crude drugs are the dried, unprepared material of plant, animal or mineral origin, used for medicine. The study of these materials under the name \"pharmakognosie\" was first developed in German-speaking areas of Europe, while other language areas often used the older term \"materia medica\" taken from the works of Galen and Dioscorides. In German the term \"drogenkunde\" (\"science of crude drugs\") is also used synonymously.\n\nAs late as the beginning of the 20th century, the subject had developed mainly on the botanical side, being particularly concerned with the description and identification of drugs both in their whole state and in powder form. Such branches of pharmacognosy are still of fundamental importance, particularly for pharmacopoeial identification and quality control purposes, but rapid development in other areas has enormously expanded the subject. The advent of the 21st century brought a renaissance of pharmacognosy and its conventional botanical approach has been broadened up to molecular and metabolomic level.\n\nAlthough most pharmacognostic studies focus on plants and medicines derived from plants, other types of organisms are also regarded as pharmacognostically interesting, in particular, various types of microbes (bacteria, fungi, etc.), and, recently, various marine organisms.\n\nIn addition to the previously mentioned definition, the American Society of Pharmacognosy also defines pharmacognosy as \"the study of natural product molecules (typically secondary metabolites) that are useful for their medicinal, ecological, gustatory, or other functional properties.\" Other definitions are more encompassing, drawing on a broad spectrum of biological subjects, including botany, ethnobotany, marine biology, microbiology, herbal medicine, chemistry, biotechnology, phytochemistry, pharmacology, pharmaceutics, clinical pharmacy and pharmacy practice.\n\n\nAt the 9th congress of Italian society of pharmacognosy it was stated that current return of phyto-therapy was clearly reflected by the increased market of such products. In 1998 the latest figures available for Europe, the total OTC market for herbal medicinal products reached a figure of $6 billion, with consumption for Germany of $2.5 billion, France $1.6 billion and Italy $600 million. In the US, where the use of herbal products has never been as prevalent as in continental Europe, the market for all herb sales reached a peak in 1998 of $700 billion. This welcomed the scientific investigation of a rigorous nature.\n\nThe plant kingdom still holds many species of plants containing substances of medicinal value which have yet to be discovered. Large numbers of plants are constantly being screened for their possible pharmacological value.\n\nAll plants produce chemical compounds as part of their normal metabolic activities. These phytochemicals are divided into (1) primary metabolites such as sugars and fats, which are found in all plants; and (2) secondary metabolites—compounds which are found in a smaller range of plants, serving a more specific function. For example, some secondary metabolites are toxins used to deter predation and others are pheromones used to attract insects for pollination. It is these secondary metabolites and pigments that can have therapeutic actions in humans and which can be refined to produce drugs—examples are inulin from the roots of dahlias, quinine from the cinchona, THC and CBD from the flowers of cannabis, morphine and codeine from the poppy, and digoxin from the foxglove.\n\nPlants synthesize a bewildering variety of phytochemicals but most are derivatives of a few biochemical motifs:\n\nA consortium of plant molecular researchers at Washington State University, the Donald Danforth Plant Science Center, the National Center for Genome Resources, and the University of Illinois at Chicago began an NIH-sponsored study of over thirty medicinal plant species late 2009. The initial work, to develop a sequence reference for the transcriptome of each, has led to the development of the Medicinal Plant Transcriptomics Database.\n\nThe part of pharmacognosy focusing on the use of crude extracts or semi-pure mixtures originating from nature, namely phytotherapy, is probably the best known and also the most debated area in pharmacognosy. Although phytotherapy is sometimes considered as alternative medicine, when critically conducted, it can be considered the scientific study on the effects and clinical use of herbal medicines. Consequently, herbal products might also become officially approved for clinical application as botanical drugs (e.g., Veregen (sinecatechins), a green tea leaves extract, approved for use by FDA).\n\nOne characteristic of crude drug material is that constituents may have an opposite, moderating or enhancing effect. Hence, the final effect of any crude drug material will be a product of the interactions between the constituents and the effect of each constituent on its own. To effectively study the existence and effect of such interactions, scientific studies must examine the effect that multiple constituents, given concurrently, have on the system. Herbalists assert that as phytopharmaceuticals rely upon synergy for their activities, plants with high levels of active constituents like ginsenosides or hypericin may not correlate with the strength of the herbs. In phytopharmaceuticals or herbal medicine, the therapeutic effects of herbs cannot be determined unless its active ingredient or cofactors are identified or the herb is administered as a whole. One way to indicate strength is standardization to one or several marker compound that are believed to be mainly responsible for the biological effects. However, many herbalists believe that the active ingredient in a plant is the plant itself.\n\nA study of herb drug interactions indicated that the vast majority of drug interactions occurred in four classes of drugs, the chief class being blood thinners, but also including protease inhibitors, cardiac glycosides and the immuno-suppressant ciclosporin.\n\nMost bioactive compounds of natural origin are secondary metabolites, i.e., species-specific chemical agents that can be grouped into various categories. A typical protocol to isolate a pure chemical agent from natural origin is bioassay-guided fractionation, meaning step-by-step separation of extracted components based on differences in their physicochemical properties, and assessing the biological activity, followed by next round of separation and assaying. Typically, such work is initiated after a given crude drug formulation (typically prepared by solvent extraction of the natural material) is deemed \"active\" in a particular \"in vitro\" assay. If the end-goal of the work at hand is to identify which one(s) of the scores or hundreds of compounds are responsible for the observed \"in vitro\" activity, the path to that end is fairly straightforward:\n\"In vitro\" activity does not necessarily translate to activity in humans or other living systems.\n\nThe most common means for fractionation are solvent-solvent partitioning and chromatographic techniques such as high-performance liquid chromatography (HPLC), medium-pressure liquid chromatography, \"flash\" chromatography, open-column chromatography, vacuum-liquid chromatography (VLC), thin-layer chromatography (TLC), with each technique being most appropriate for a given amount of starting material. Countercurrent chromatography (CCC) is particularly well-suited for bioassay-guided fractionation because, as an all-liquid separation technique, concern about irreversible loss or denaturation of active sample components is minimized. After isolation of a pure substance, the task of elucidating its chemical structure can be addressed. For this purpose, the most powerful methodologies available are nuclear magnetic resonance spectroscopy (NMR) and mass spectrometry (MS). In the case of drug discovery efforts, structure elucidation of all components that are active \"in vitro\" is typically the end goal. In the case of phytotherapy research, the investigator may use \"in vitro\" BAGF as a tool to identify pharmacologically interesting or important components of the crude drug. The work does not stop after structural identification of \"in vitro\" actives, however. The task of \"dissecting and reassembling\" the crude drug one active component at a time, in order to achieve a mechanistic understanding of how it works in phytotherapy, is quite daunting. This is because it is simply too difficult, from cost, time, regulatory, and even scientific perspectives, to study experimental fractions of the crude drug in humans. \"In vitro\" assays are therefore used to identify chemical components of the crude drug that may rationally be expected to have a given pharmacological effect in humans, and to provide a rational basis for standardization of a crude drug formulation to be tested in [and sold/marketed to] humans.\n\nFarnsworth for example, has found that 25% of all prescriptions dispensed from community pharmacies in the United States from 1959 to 1980 contained active ingredients extracted from higher plants. In some countries in Asia and Africa 80% of the population relies on traditional medicine (including herbal medicine) for primary health care.\nNative American cultures have also relied on traditional medicine such as ceremonial smoking of tobacco, potlatch ceremonies, and herbalism, to name a few, prior to European colonization. Constituents of substances used by traditional healers, have rarely been incorporated into modern medicine. Quinine, physostigmine, d-tubocurarine, pilocarpine and ephedrine, have been demonstrated to have active effects Knowledge of traditional medicinal practices is disappearing, particularly in the Amazon, as native healers die out and are replaced by more modern medical practitioners. Botanists and pharmacologists are racing to learn these ancient practices, which, like the forest plants they employ, are also endangered.\n\nSome species loss is habitat lost due to introduction of invasive species such (kudzu, Japanese knotweed, mimosa, lonicera, St. Johnswort and purple loosestrife) which themselves have medicinal uses.\n\nSpecies extinction is not only due to habitat loss. Overharvesting of medicinal species of plants and animals also contributes to species loss. This is particularly notable in the matter of Traditional Chinese Medicine where crude drugs of plant and animal origin are used with increasing demand. People with a stake in TCM often seek chemical and biological alternatives to endangered species because they realize that plants and animals lost from the wild are also lost to medicine forever but different cultural attitudes bedevil conservation efforts . Still conservation is not a new idea: Chinese advice against overexploitation of natural medicinal species dates from at least Mencius, a philosopher living in the 4th century BC.\n\nCooperation between Western conservationists and practitioners have been beset by cultural difficulties. Westerners may emphasise urgency in matters of conservation, while Chinese may wish for the products used in TCM to remain publicly available. One repeated fallacy is that rhinoceros horn is used as an aphrodisiac in TCM. It is, in fact, prescribed for fevers and convulsions by TCM practitioners. There are no peer-reviewed studies showing that this treatment is effective. In 1995 representatives of the oriental medicine communities in Asia met with conservationists at a symposium in Hong Kong, organized by TRAFFIC. The two groups established a clear willingness to cooperate through dialogue and mutual understanding. This has led to several meetings, including the 1997 First International Symposium on Endangered Species Used in Traditional East Asian Medicine, where China was among 136 nations to sign a formal resolution recognizing that the uncontrolled use of wild species in traditional medicine threatens their survival and the continuation of these medical practices. The resolution, drawn up by the UN Convention on International Trade in Endangered Species (CITES), aims to initiate new partnerships in conservation.\n\nAs species face loss of habitat or overharvesting, there have been new issues to deal with in sourcing crude drugs. These include changes to the herb from farming practices, substitution of species or other plants altogether, adulteration and cross-pollination issues. For instance, ginseng which is field farmed may have significant problems with fungus, making contamination with fungicides an issue. This may be remedied with woods grown programs, but they are insufficient to produce enough ginseng to meet demand. The wildcrafted echinacea, black cohosh and American ginseng often rely upon old growth root, often in excess of 50 years of age and it is not clear that younger stock will have the same pharmaceutical effect. Black cohosh may be adulterated with the related Chinese actea species, which is not the same. Ginseng may be replaced by ginseniodes from Jiaogulan which has been stated to have a different effect than the full panax root.\n\nThe problem may be exacerbated by the growth of pills and capsules as the preferred method of ingesting medication as they are cheaper and more available than traditional, individually tailored prescriptions of raw medicinals but the contents are harder to track. Seahorses are a case in point: Seahorses once had to be of a certain size and quality before they were accepted by practitioners and consumers. But declining availability of the preferred large, pale and smooth seahorses has been offset by the shift towards prepackaged medicines, which make it possible for TCM merchants to sell previously unused juvenile, spiny and dark-coloured animals. Today almost a third of the seahorses sold in China are prepackaged.\nThe farming of plant or animal species for medicinal purposes has caused difficulties. Rob Parry Jones and Amanda Vincent write:\n\n"}
{"id": "12745269", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12745269", "title": "Pregnant patients' rights in the United States", "text": "Pregnant patients' rights in the United States\n\nPregnant patients' rights regarding medical care during the pregnancy and childbirth are specifically a patient's rights within a medical setting and should not be confused with pregnancy discrimination. A great deal of discussion regarding pregnant patients' rights has taken place in the United States.\n\nIn Western countries, medical services used during labor and delivery have increased since the 1930s. Starting in the 1950s, with the natural childbirth movement gaining strength, concern increased over typical hospital practices during childbirth. These medical services included medications and procedures that were not always necessary some of which had potential to harm the mother, the baby, or both. Various health-related and consumer organization groups began to advocate for a pregnant woman's right to be informed about medical services related to pregnancy and childbirth and for her right to refuse such services.\n\nIn the United States, the American College of Obstetricians and Gynecologists (ACOG) acknowledged the legal obligation of physicians to obtain informed consent for procedures related to pregnancy and childbirth in 1974.\n\nA 1987 study found that, in the preceding decade, at least 22 hospitals in the United States sought direction from the courts regarding care for pregnant patients. Fifteen court orders were sought, all but one without careful study of the legal facts of the case.\n\nIn a landmark 1990 case, George Washington University Medical Center (GWUMC) announced a new policy regarding pregnant patients' rights as part of the out-of-court settlement of a case in which a pregnant patient, Angela Carder, died. The new policy stated that decisions regarding medical care for pregnant patients would be made by the patient herself, her doctors, and her family, not by the courts. Although the settlement applied only to GWUMC, the new policy, considered the most comprehensive of its kind at the time, was expected to influence other institutions.\n\nAdvocates endorse a pregnant patient's right to participate in medical decisions that may affect her well-being and that of her child. Specifically, these include but are not limited to the right to know the effects and risks to both the woman and the child associated with a drug or procedure, as well as the right to know about additional and alternative treatments.\n\nSome groups, such as the American Hospital Association in its \"Patient's Bill of Rights\", advocate additional rights, including rights to the following:\n\n"}
{"id": "22216383", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22216383", "title": "R. G. Chandramogan", "text": "R. G. Chandramogan\n\nR. G. Chandramogan is a dairyman and entrepreneur from Tamil Nadu. He is the Chairman and Managing Director of Hatsun Agro Product Ltd, the largest private sector dairy company based in Chennai. He was son of Mr.Ganesan who was founder owner of Arun Ice Creams. The company's well-known brands Arun, Arokya and Hatsun are leaders in the segments of Ice creams, milk and curd amongst private dairies in India. He is one of the first generation of entrepreneurs from Thiruthangal, Sivakasi. He is one among the 113 Indian Billionaires, with a fortune of $1.45 billion.\n\nChandramogan was born in Thirinulvelil, Virudhunagar District, Tamil Nadu. The founder owner of Arun Ice cream was Mr.Ganesan. He made Arun Ice cream popular. In latter stage his son Chandramogan developed the company. \n\nIn an interview with Sify, he shared his interest is playing badminton and has won veteran's championship for two years. He also enjoys reading books.\n\n"}
{"id": "28170989", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28170989", "title": "Sandra Bond Chapman", "text": "Sandra Bond Chapman\n\nSandra Bond Chapman is a cognitive neuroscientist, founder and chief director of the Center for BrainHealth, Dee Wyly Distinguished Professor in Brain Health, and a professor in the School of Behavioral and Brain Sciences at The University of Texas at Dallas.\n\nChapman began her career in the 1970s as a speech pathologist, where she often worked with children diagnosed with severe autism. During this time, Chapman encountered several children able to solve complex puzzles despite their hindering diagnosis. This contradiction sparked Chapman's interest in the brain’s potential. Chapman's fascination the brain's modifiability later evolved into the idea of a multidisciplinary center housing brain researchers and therapists working collectively to prevent, arrest, and reverse brain traumas. Only 20 years after it was first conceptualized, Chapman opened the Center for BrainHealth in Dallas, Texas. Chapman continues to serve as the Center for BrainHealth's chief director.\n\nChapman’s cognitive research has laid the theoretical framework and empirical foundation for the development of measurements of higher order reasoning [Test of Strategic Learning] and the development of brain training programs for children and adults. Her research elucidates novel approaches to maximize cognitive function in people with healthy brains as well as those with brain injury, stroke, ADHD, autism, schizophrenia, substance abuse, and progressive brain diseases like Alzheimer's disease.\n\nChapman's research has resulted in more than 120 publications, nearly 60 funded research grants, and has served as a national public health road for maintaining cognitive fitness and building critical thinking and reasoning skills in adolescents. Chapman was the principal member writing the first state plan for BrainHealth fitness for adults. She is a core member for NIH's selection process of central data elements for nationwide clinical trials on acquired brain injury. Throughout her career, Chapman has received major federal, state, and private research support to advance the treatment of veterans, sports-related brain injuries, concussions, autism, schizophrenia, adolescent reasoning, and brain development, among others.\n\nChapman received her B.A. (in Speech Pathology) and M.A. (in Communication Disorders) from the University of North Texas. Her Ph.D. in Communication Disorders is from University of Texas at Dallas.\n\nChapman is a member of the following organizations:\n\n"}
{"id": "25010568", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25010568", "title": "Sex Roles (journal)", "text": "Sex Roles (journal)\n\nSex Roles is a peer-reviewed scientific journal published by Springer. Articles appearing in \"Sex Roles\" are written from a feminist perspective, and topics span gender role socialization, gendered perceptions and behaviors, gender stereotypes, body image, violence against women, gender issues in employment and work environments, sexual orientation and identity, and methodological issues in gender research. The Editor-in-Chief is Janice D. Yoder.\n\n\"Sex Roles\" is abstracted/indexed in:\n\nAccording to the \"Journal Citation Reports\", the journal has a 2016 impact factor of 1.954, ranking it 1st out of 41 journals in the category \"Women's Studies\" and 11th out of 62 journals in the category, \"Social Psychology\".\n\n"}
{"id": "1360340", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1360340", "title": "Sir William Fergusson, 1st Baronet", "text": "Sir William Fergusson, 1st Baronet\n\nSir William Fergusson, 1st Baronet FRCS FRS FRSE (20 March 1808 – 10 February 1877) was a Scottish surgeon.\n\nWilliam Fergusson son of James Fergusson of Lochmaben, Dumfriesshire, was born at Prestonpans, East Lothian on 20 March 1808, and was educated first at Lochmaben and afterwards at the high school and University of Edinburgh. At the age of fifteen he was placed by his own desire in a lawyer's office, but the work proved uncongenial, and at seventeen he exchanged law for medicine, in accordance with his father's original wishes. He became an assiduous pupil of Dr. Robert Knox the anatomist, who was much pleased with a piece of mechanism which Fergusson constructed, and appointed him at the age of twenty demonstrator to his class of four hundred pupils.\n\nIn 1828 Fergusson became a licentiate, and in 1829 a fellow of the Edinburgh College of Surgeons. He continued zealous in anatomy, often spending from twelve to sixteen hours a day in the dissecting-room. Two of his preparations, admirably dissected, are still preserved in the museum of the Edinburgh College of Surgeons. Soon after qualifying Fergusson began to deliver a portion of the lectures on general anatomy, in association with Knox, and to demonstrate surgical anatomy. In 1831 he was elected surgeon to the Edinburgh Royal Dispensary, and in that year tied the subclavian artery, which had then been done in Scotland only twice. On 10 October 1833 he married Helen, daughter and heiress of William Ranken of Spittlehaugh, Peeblesshire. This marriage placed him in easy circumstances, but he did not relax his efforts after success in operative surgery, and by 1836, when he was elected surgeon to the Royal Infirmary of Edinburgh and fellow of the Royal Society of Edinburgh, he shared with James Syme the best surgical practice in Scotland.\n\nIn 1840 Fergusson accepted the professorship of surgery at King's College London, with the surgeoncy to King's College Hospital, and established himself at Dover Street, Piccadilly, whence he removed in 1847 to 16 George Street, now St George's Street, Hanover Square. He became M.R.C.S. Engl. in 1840, and fellow in 1844. His practice grew rapidly, and the fame of his operative skill brought many students and visitors to King's College Hospital. In 1849 he was appointed surgeon in ordinary to the prince consort, and in 1855 surgeon extraordinary, and in 1867 sergeant-surgeon to the queen.\n\nFor many years Fergusson was the leading operator in London. He was elected as President for two years of the Pathological Society of London in 1859. He was elected to the council of the College of Surgeons in 1861, examiner in 1867, and was president of the college in 1870. As professor of human anatomy and surgery he delivered two courses of lectures before the College of Surgeons in 1864 and 1865, which were afterwards published. He was president of the British Medical Association in 1873. In 1875, he received the honorary degree of LL.D. from Edinburgh University. He resigned the professorship of surgery at King's College in 1870, but until his death was clinical professor of surgery and senior surgeon to King's College Hospital. He was also a fellow of the Royal Society. He was created a baronet on 23 January 1866, an honour which led to his receiving a presentation from three hundred old pupils, consisting of a silver dessert service worth £400, at the annual dinner of old King's College men on 21 June 1866.\nHe died in London after an exhausting illness, of Bright's disease, on 10 February 1877, and was buried at West Linton, Peeblesshire, where his wife had been buried in 1860.\n\nA portrait of Fergusson by Lehmann, painted by subscription, was presented to the London College of Surgeons in 1874, and a replica is in the Edinburgh College of Surgeons.\n\nFergusson's reputation is that of a brilliant operator and a great \"conservative\" surgeon. The term conservative surgery, first applied by Fergusson in 1852 to operations for the preservation of parts of the body which would otherwise have been sacrificed, does not denote merely operations which he originated or improved, for James Syme had already been very successful in this line of procedure. But Fergusson extended the principle from the operation of excision of the elbow joint to many others. No portion of the body which could be usefully preserved was too small for him to make efforts to save. Among operations with which his name is specially identified are those for harelip and cleft palate, and operations on the jaws, the excision of joints, notably the hip, knee, and elbow, lithotomy and lithotrity, and amputations of limbs. His skill in dissection, and his careful study of the actions of the muscles which he had to cut through, were of essential importance to his success. In his lectures at the College of Surgeons he was able to speak of three hundred successful operations of his own for harelip. The operation for cleft palate had been largely abandoned till he took it up anew. His manipulative and mechanical skill was shown both in his modes of operating, and in the new instruments he devised. The bulldog forceps, the mouth-gag for cleft palate, and various bent knives attest his ingenuity. A still higher mark of his ability consisted in his perfect planning of every detail of an operation beforehand; no emergency was unprovided for. Thus, when an operation had begun, he proceeded with remarkable speed and silence till the end, himself applying every bandage and plaster, and leaving, as far as possible, no traces of his operation. So silently were most of his operations conducted, that he was often imagined to be on bad terms with his assistants. His punctuality and his hatred of unnecessary waste of time were very marked.\n\nAs a lecturer, out of the operating theatre, Fergusson did not shine, owing to his reticence and his imperfect command of abstract subjects; although on points of practice he gave excellent instruction. In the operating theatre his remarks on the cases before him were valuable and instructive. To students he was most kind and generous. He had to sustain much opposition, especially from Syme, but he did not imitate his opponent's mode of controversy; and if on any occasion he imagined he had said or done something to hurt another's feelings, he never rested till he had made reparation in some form.\n\nFergusson was an excellent carpenter, rivalling skilled artisans. When a student he made himself a brass-bound dissecting case, and in 1834 completed a lithotrite, with a novel rack and pinion, which he used throughout life. He was a good violinist, an expert fly-fisher, and very fond of the drama. His endurance was remarkable; he never seemed tired, and scarcely had a day's illness till attacked by Bright's disease. He was tall, dignified, and of good presence, of genial though keen expression, fond of a joke, and very hospitable. He rendered gratuitous aid to large numbers of clergymen, actors, authors, and governesses. He helped many of his pupils in starting in life, a large number of whom attained eminence as surgeons. He never forgot the face of a pupil.\n\nIn some expressions of opinion Fergusson was ill-advised, especially in matters requiring more knowledge of physiology and hygiene than he possessed. His evidence before the royal commission on vivisection, and his relations with homeopathic practitioners, which he was led to modify, are instances of this. But his faults were faults of sympathy, not of self-conceit or intolerance of criticism.\n\nOn 10 October 1833, Fergusson married Helen Hamilton Ranken, daughter and heiress of William Ranken of Spittlehaugh, Peeblesshire. They had two sons: Sir James Ranken Fergusson (eldest son and heir) and Charles Hamilton (who would eventually rise to the rank of major in the army), and three daughters.\n\nFergusson's principal work is his \nHe also wrote \nand the following papers and pamphlets:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "179240", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=179240", "title": "Taxidermy", "text": "Taxidermy\n\nTaxidermy is the preserving of an animal's body via mounting (over an armature) or stuffing, for the purpose of display or study. Animals are often, but not always, portrayed in a lifelike state. The word taxidermy describes the process of preserving the animal but the word is also used to describe the end product which are called taxidermy mounts, or referred to simply as \"taxidermy\". The word taxidermy is derived from the Greek words \"taxis\" and \"derma\". Taxis means \"to move\", and \"derma\" means \"skin\" (the dermis). The word taxidermy translates to \"arrangement of skin\". Taxidermy is practiced primarily on vertebrates (mammals, birds, fish, reptiles, and less commonly on amphibians) but can also be done to larger insects and arachnids under some circumstances. Taxidermy takes on a number of forms and purposes including, but not limited to, hunting trophies and natural history museum displays. Museums use taxidermy as a method to record species, including those that are extinct and threatened, in the form of study skins and life-size mounts. Taxidermy is sometimes also used as a means to memorialize pets. A person who practices taxidermy is called a taxidermist. They may practice professionally, catering to museums and sportsman (hunters and fishermen), or as amateurs (hobbyists). A taxidermist is aided by familiarity with anatomy, sculpture, painting, and tanning.\n\nPreserving animal skins has been practiced for a long time. Embalmed animals have been found with Egyptian mummies.\nAlthough embalming incorporates the use of lifelike poses, it is not considered taxidermy. In the Middle Ages, crude examples of taxidermy were displayed by astrologers and apothecaries. The earliest methods of preservation of birds for natural history cabinets were published in 1748 by Reaumur in France. Techniques for mounting were described in 1752 by M. B. Stollas. There were several pioneers of taxidermy in France, Germany, Denmark and England around this time. For a while, clay was used to shape some of the soft parts, but this made specimens heavy.\n\nBy the 19th century, almost every town had a tannery business. In the 19th century, hunters began bringing their trophies to upholstery shops, where the upholsterers would actually sew up the animal skins and stuff them with rags and cotton. The term \"stuffing\" or a \"stuffed animal\" evolved from this crude form of taxidermy. Professional taxidermists prefer the term \"mounting\" to \"stuffing\". More sophisticated cotton-wrapped wire bodies supporting sewn-on cured skins soon followed. In France, Louis Dufresne, taxidermist at the Muséum national d'Histoire naturelle from 1793, popularized arsenical soap in an article in \"Nouveau dictionnaire d'histoire naturelle\" (1803–1804). This technique enabled the museum to build the greatest collection of birds in the world.\nDufresne's methods spread to England in the early 19th century, where updated and non-toxic methods of preservation were developed by some of the leading naturalists of the day, including Rowland Ward and Montague Brown. Ward established one of the earliest taxidermy firms, Rowland Ward Ltd. of Piccadilly. However, the art of taxidermy remained relatively undeveloped, and the specimens that were created remained stiff and unconvincing.\n\nThe golden age of taxidermy was during the Victorian era, when mounted animals became a popular part of interior design and decor. English ornithologist John Hancock is considered to be the father of modern taxidermy. An avid collector of birds, which he would shoot himself, he began modelling them with clay and casting in plaster.\n\nFor the Great Exhibition of 1851 in London, he mounted a series of stuffed birds as an exhibit. They generated much interest among the public and scientists alike who considered them as superior to earlier models and were regarded as the first lifelike and artistic specimens on display. A judge remarked that Hancock's exhibit \"... will go far towards raising the art of taxidermy to a level with other arts which have hitherto held higher pretensions\".\n\nHancock's display sparked great national interest in taxidermy, and amateur and professional collections for public view proliferated rapidly. Displays of birds were particularly common in middle-class Victorian homes – even Queen Victoria amassed an impressive bird collection. Taxidermists were also increasingly used by the bereaved owners of dead pets to 'resurrect' them.\n\nIn the late 19th century a style known as anthropomorphic taxidermy became popular. A 'Victorian whimsy', mounted animals were dressed as people or displayed as if engaged in human activities. An early example of this genre was displayed by Herman Ploucquet, from Stuttgart, Germany, at the Great Exhibition in London.\n\nThe best-known practitioner in this genre was the English taxidermist Walter Potter, whose most famous work was \"The Death and Burial of Cock Robin\". Among his other scenes were \"a rat's den being raided by the local police rats ... [a] village school ... featuring 48 little rabbits busy writing on tiny slates, while the Kittens' Tea Party displayed feline etiquette and a game of croquet.\" Apart from the simulations of human situations, he had also added examples of bizarrely deformed animals such as two-headed lambs and four-legged chickens. Potter's museum was so popular that an extension was built to the platform at Bramber railway station.\n\nOther Victorian taxidermists known for their iconic anthropomorphic taxidermy work are William Hart and his Son Edward Hart.\nThey gained recognition with their famous series of dioramas featuring boxing squirrels. Both William and Edward created multiple sets of these dioramas. One 4-piece set of boxing squirrel dioramas (circa 1850) sold at auction in 2013 for record prices. The four dioramas were created as a set (with each diorama portraying the squirrels at a different stage during their boxing match), however, the set was broken up and each was sold separately at the same auction. The set was one of a number they created over the years featuring boxing squirrels.\n\nFamous examples of modern anthropomorphic taxidermy include the work of artist Adele Morse who gained international attention with her \"Stoned Fox\" sculpture series and the work of artist Sarina Brewer, known for her Siamese twin squirrels and flying monkeys partaking in human activities.\n\nIn the early 20th century, taxidermy was taken forward under the leadership of artists such as Carl Akeley, James L. Clark, William T. Hornaday, Coleman Jonas, Fredrick and William Kaempfer, and Leon Pray. These and other taxidermists developed anatomically accurate figures which incorporated every detail in artistically interesting poses, with mounts in realistic settings and poses that were considered more appropriate for the species. This was quite a change from the caricatures popularly offered as hunting trophies.\n\nAdditional modern uses of Taxidermy have been the use of \"Faux Taxidermy\" or fake animal heads that draw on the inspiration of traditional taxidermy. Decorating with sculpted fake animal heads that are painted in different colors has become a popular trend in interior design.\n\nRogue taxidermy (sometimes referred to as \"taxidermy art\") is a form of mixed media sculpture. Rogue taxidermy art references traditional trophy or natural history museum taxidermy, but is not always constructed out of taxidermied animals, it can be constructed entirely from synthetic materials. Additionally, rogue taxidermy is not necessarily figurative, it can be abstract and does not need to resemble an animal. It can be a small decorative object or a large-scale room-sized installation. There is a very broad spectrum of styles within the genre, some of which falls into the category of mainstream art. \"Rogue taxidermy\" describes a wide variety of work, including work that is classified and exhibited as fine art. Neither the term, nor the genre, emerged from the world of traditional taxidermy. The genre was born from forms of fine art that utilize some of the components found in the construction of a traditional taxidermy mount. The term \"rogue taxidermy\" was coined in 2004 by an artist collective called The Minnesota Association of Rogue Taxidermists.\nThe Minneapolis-based group was founded by artists Sarina Brewer, Scott Bibus, and Robert Marbury as a means to unite their respective mediums and differing styles of sculpture.\nThe definition of rogue taxidermy set forth by the individuals who formed the genre (Brewer, Bibus, and Marbury) is: \"A genre of pop-surrealist art characterized by mixed media sculptures containing conventional taxidermy-related materials that are used in an unconventional manner\". Interest in the collective's work gave rise to an artistic movement referred to as the Rogue Taxidermy art movement, or alternately, the Taxidermy Art movement. Apart from describing a genre of fine art, the term \"rogue taxidermy\" has expanded in recent years and become an adjective applied to unorthodox forms of traditional taxidermy such as anthropomorphic mounts and composite mounts where two or more animals are spliced together. (e.g.; sideshow gaffs of conjoined \"freak\" animals and mounts of jackalopes or other fictional creatures) In addition to being the impetus for the art movement, the inception of the genre also marked a resurgence of interest in conventional (traditional) forms of taxidermy.\n\nThe methods taxidermists practice have been improved over the last century, heightening taxidermic quality and lowering toxicity. The animal is first skinned in a process similar to removing the skin from a chicken prior to cooking. This can be accomplished without opening the body cavity, so the taxidermist usually does not see internal organs or blood. Depending on the type of skin, preserving chemicals are applied or the skin is tanned. It is then either mounted on a mannequin made from wood, wool and wire, or a polyurethane form. Clay is used to install glass eyes. Forms and eyes are commercially available from a number of suppliers. If not, taxidermists carve or cast their own forms.\n\nTaxidermists seek to continually maintain their skills to ensure attractive, lifelike results. Mounting an animal has long been considered an art form, often involving months of work; not all modern taxidermists trap or hunt for prize specimens.\n\nAnimal specimens can be frozen, then thawed at a later date to be skinned and tanned. Numerous measurements are taken of the body. A traditional method that remains popular today involves retaining the original skull and leg bones of a specimen and using these as the basis to create a mannequin made primarily from wood wool (previously tow or hemp wool was used) and galvanised wire. Another method is to mould the carcass in plaster, and then make a copy of the animal using one of several methods. A final mould is then made of polyester resin and glass cloth, from which a polyurethane form is made for final production. The carcass is then removed and the mould is used to produce a cast of the animal called a 'form'. Forms can also be made by sculpting the animal first in clay. Many companies produce stock forms in various sizes. Glass eyes are then usually added to the display, and in some cases, artificial teeth, jaws, tongue, or for some birds, artificial beaks and legs can be used.\n\nAn increasingly popular trend is to freeze dry the animal. For all intents and purposes, a freeze-dried mount is a mummified animal that still has fur on it. The internal organs are removed during preparation; however, all other tissue remains in the body. (The skeleton and all accompanying musculature is still beneath the surface of the fur.) The animal is positioned into the desired pose, then placed into the chamber of a special freeze drying machine designed specifically for this application. The machine freezes the animal and also creates a vacuum in the chamber. Pressure in the chamber helps vaporize moisture in the animal's body, allowing it to dry out. The rate of drying depends on vapor pressure. (The higher the pressure, the faster the specimen dries.) Vapor pressure is determined by temperature of the chamber; the higher the temperature, the higher the vapor pressure is at a given vacuum. The length of the dry-time is important because rapid freezing creates less tissue distortion (i.e.; shrinkage, warping, and wrinkling) The process can be done with reptiles, birds, and small mammals such as cats, rodents, and some dogs. Large specimens may require up to six months in the freeze dryer before they are completely dry. Freeze drying is the most popular type of pet preservation. This is because it is the least invasive in terms of what is done to the animal's body after death, which is a concern of owners (Most owners do not opt for a traditional skin mount).\nIn the case of large pets, such as dogs and cats, freeze drying is also the best way to capture the animal's expression as it looked in life (another important concern of owners). Freeze drying equipment is costly and requires much upkeep. The process is also time-consuming; therefore, freeze drying is generally an expensive method to preserve an animal. The drawback to this method is that freeze-dried mounts are extremely susceptible to insect damage. This is because they contain large areas of dried tissue (meat and fat) for insects to feed upon. Traditional mounts are far less susceptible because they contain virtually no residual tissues (or none at all). Regardless of how well a taxidermy mount is prepared, all taxidermy is susceptible to insect damage. Taxidermy mounts are targeted by the same beetles and fabric moths that destroy wool sweaters and fur coats and that infest grains and flour in pantries.\n\nSome methods of creating a trophy mount do not involve preserving the actual body of the animal. Instead, detailed photos and measurements are taken of the animal so a taxidermist can create an exact replica in resin or fiberglass that can be displayed in place of the real animal. No animals are killed in the creation of this type of trophy mount. One situation where this is practiced is in the world of sport fishing where catch and release is becoming increasingly prevalent. Reproduction mounts are commonly created for (among others) trout, bass, and large saltwater species such as the swordfish. Another situation where reproduction trophies are created is when endangered species are involved. Endangered and protected species, such as the rhinoceros, are hunted with rifles loaded with tranquilizer darts rather than real bullets. While the animal is unconscious, the hunter poses for photos with the animal while it is measured for the purpose of creating a replica, or to establish what size of prefabricated fiberglass trophy head can be purchased to most closely approximate the actual animal. The darted animal is not harmed. The hunter then displays the fiberglass head on the wall in lieu of the real animal's head to commemorate the experience of the hunt.\n\nRe-creation mounts are accurate life-size representations of either extant or extinct species that are created using materials not found on the animal being rendered. They utilize the fur, feathers, and skin of another species of animal. According to the National Taxidermy Association:\" \"Re-creations, for the purpose of this [competition] category, are defined as renderings which include no natural parts of the animal portrayed. A re-creation may include original carvings and sculptures. A re-creation may use natural parts, provided the parts are not from the species being portrayed. For instance, a re-creation eagle could be constructed using turkey feathers, or a cow hide could be used to simulate African game\".\" A famous example of a re-creation mount is a giant panda created by taxidermist Ken Walker that he constructed out of dyed and bleached black bear fur.\n\nA study skin is a taxidermic zoological specimen prepared in a minimalistic fashion that is concerned only with preserving the animal's skin, not the shape of the animal's body. As the name implies, study skins are used for scientific study (research), and are housed mainly by museums. A study skin's sole purpose is to preserve data, not to replicate an animal in a lifelike state. Museums keep large collections of study skins in order to conduct comparisons of physical characteristics to other study skins of the same species. Study skins are also kept because DNA can be extracted from them when needed at any point in time.\n\nA study skin's preparation is extremely basic. After the animal is skinned, fat is methodically scraped off the underside of the hide. The underside of the hide is then rubbed with borax or cedar dust to help it dry faster. The animal is then stuffed with cotton and sewn up. Mammals are laid flat on their belly. Birds are prepared lying on their back. Study skins are dried in these positions to keep the end product as slender and streamlined as possible so large numbers of specimens can be stored side-by-side in flat file drawers, while occupying a minimum amount of space. Since study skins are not prepared with aesthetics in mind they do not have imitation eyes like other taxidermy, and their cotton filling is visible in their eye openings.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "39731325", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39731325", "title": "The Sterilization of Leilani Muir", "text": "The Sterilization of Leilani Muir\n\nThe Sterilization of Leilani Muir is a 1996 documentary directed by Glynis Whiting about the life and times of Leilani Muir, the first person to file a lawsuit against the Alberta provincial government for wrongful sterilization under the Sexual Sterilization Act of Alberta.\n\nThe film runs through the life of Leilani Muir, starting with her early life as a child, her life at the Provincial Training School (Michener Centre) in Red Deer, Alberta, her experience of the sterilization itself, and her lawsuit that ensued years later. Along the way in the film, professors, legal scholars, and other people of interest are interviewed and offer their knowledge of specific eugenic topics. Also, brief explanations of the theory of eugenics, IQ tests and their relation to eugenics, and a history of eugenics in Alberta and Germany are provided. \nLeilani Muir was born July 15, 1944, in Calgary, Alberta and grew up on a farm. She experienced a rough childhood as her mother often beat her and didn’t provide her with regular meals. As a result, Leilani often went hungry and began to steal classmates' lunches at school. The teachers were quick to notice this and would often bring lunches for her. Teachers also began to question Leilani’s parents but in order to avoid answering these questions, her family would move away. Many neighbors did not even know Leilani existed as she was often locked away on the farm, hidden for no one to see.\n\nJust before Leilani’s 11th birthday, July 12, 1955, Leilani was taken to the Provincial Training School for Mental Defectives (also called the Michener Center) located in Red Deer, Alberta. Leilani, not knowing at the time why she was placed in the centre, believed that she had been taken to an orphanage, since her mother had told her that she had never wanted a girl. During the next couple years Leilani played with the other girls, received a clean bed and clean clothes, was fed three meals a day, went to school and “kicked butt if she felt like it.”\nDuring her time at the Michener Center, Leilani was given a single IQ test in which she scored a 64. She was termed a moron and brought up before the Alberta Eugenics Board. They had asked her questions such as “At what age does a baby begin to walk and talk?” for roughly 5 minutes. Leilani had known the answer to this question as she had had a younger brother growing up. However, she still was deemed a danger of transmitting mental defects to progeny and incapable of intelligent parenthood. In 1957, at the age of 14 years, Leilani was told that she was undergoing a surgery to have her appendix removed. The surgeons and staff did not mention that she was being sterilized by having her fallopian tubes removed.\n\nIn 1965, at the age of 21, Leilani left the Michener Centre and began to support herself. She got married at the age of 24 and wanted to have a family. After going to the doctor, it was revealed that Leilani had been sterilized and could no longer have children. She married again, not having told her husband of her past, and when an adoption fell through, quickly became depressed.\n\nOn June 12, 1995 with the Honorable Madame Joanne B. Viet presiding, Leilani, sued the Alberta Government for wrongful sterilization and damages, with her lawyers Jon Faulds and Sandra Anderson. On January 25, 1996, Viet ruled in favor of Muir and awarded her $750,000 CAD in damages. Leilani wishes her story to be made known so that what happened to her and many others may never happen in Canada again.\n\n\n\"The Sterilization of Leilani Muir\" was produced by Graydon McCrea under the National Film Board of Canada in Edmonton, Alberta, in 1996.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "5332448", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5332448", "title": "Urban Health Resource Centre", "text": "Urban Health Resource Centre\n\nUrban Health Resource Centre (UHRC) is a non-government organization that works towards socio-economic empowerment, improved quality of life, health, nutrition, well-being and empowered social organization among disadvantaged urban communities through – (i) demand-supply improvement, community-provider linkages, and demonstration programs that use a consultative and partnership based approach, (ii) technical support to government and non-government agencies and (iii) research, advocacy and knowledge dissemination. The UHRC’s demonstration programs utilize community organizing to establish women’s community groups consisting of slum-dwelling women who advocate for community-level infrastructure improvements.\n\nUHRC was established in 2005 as a registered non-profit company under India’s Companies Act, 1956 with the aim of working towards socio-economic empowerment, improved quality of life, health, nutrition, and general well-being for urban disadvantaged families. Its startup was supported by USAID between 2004 and 2005, but as of 2009, the UHRC no longer receives USAID financial support.\n\nUHRC implements demonstration programs among slum-dwelling populations in cities (Indore, Agra, and more recently North-East Delhi) with the intention that they be adapted, replicated and up-scaled by other government and non-government agencies. These demonstration programs focus simultaneously on community empowerment to enhance demand for services and on working with the service providers to improve supply side responsiveness to meet the increased demand. Since slum-dwellers are usually not connected to the mainstream population, part of the UHRC’s ground work involves proactive community mobilization, encouragement and outreach to identify vulnerable populations and facilitate their connection to social and economic sector service providers such as healthcare, living environment services, house improvement services and employment programs.\n\nUHRC programs facilitate the formation of women's and children's groups to strengthen the social cohesion in slums and to address gender inequity. The program works toward building their capacity to take charge of processes that affect family economics, health, education, nutrition, housing improvement and overall social wellbeing. UHRC provides targeted trainings and workshops to community groups on topics such as (a) acquiring knowledge, (b) building negotiations skills (such as sending collective application to civic authorities) and, (c) interfacing with diverse government agencies to improve slum living environments and access to health, nutrition and social entitlements. Slum communities in UHRC program cities participate in health education and promotion sessions facilitated by UHRC field workers on topics such as maternal and child health, nutrition, hygiene, and environmental health.\n\nAs the number of community groups in a local region reaches a critical mass, they are networked into a larger congress called a “federation” or cluster-team of women's groups, consisting of democratically agreed-upon representatives from each group. Cluster-level congresses of women's groups and slum-level groups receive regular supervision, mentoring support and materials (such as steel containers to store registers, charts, behaviour promotion materials, floor mats to sit during meetings) from UHRC teams to carry out meetings and activities working towards improved health and well-being. UHRC partners with participating community groups and federations to help them access available services, schemes and resources. Groups and cluster-team members are also coached on negotiation skills and provided trainings on how to effectively negotiate with healthcare providers and other civic authorities through dialogue and formal applications to obtain health services and environmental services such as road paving, drain installation, sanitation/water infrastructure, garbage removal, and other entitlements.\n\nAlong with running the demonstration programs, UHRC also provides technical support to the government (at national, provincial, and city levels) and non-government agencies in the form of research, advocacy, and knowledge dissemination. Additionally, the UHRC central and field offices provides trainings, internships,and volunteer options for students from different universities in India and abroad. All interns and volunteers, whoin the past eight years have included Masters and PhD students, have learnt from field based participatory action research in UHRC's program sites.\n\nSome of the first activities the UHRC encourages slum women to discuss and analyze health, well-being challenges faced by their families and the community as a whole. UHRC helps a new slum women’s group with are health activism training and advocacy of healthy household practices. Through workshops and training sessions, women’s groups are encouraged to begin promoting healthy practices and health seeking behaviors in their communities, such as going to the hospital when a woman goes into labor. This process involves training women’s group members to become social health activists so they can conduct preventive and promotive health workshops and sessions for their peers. An aspect of this training is encouraging women’s group members to promote cultural and religious traditions that are relevant to their communities, while incorporating educational curriculums surrounding proper hygiene and healthy behaviors for new mothers. One example is that UHRC women’s groups often hold group Annaprashan ceremonies (a ceremony wherein a child is first fed food other than milk), incorporating curriculums surrounding ante-natal child care.\n\nUHRC also trains group members on reaching out to private and public healthcare providers such as Auxiliary Nurse Midwives (ANMs) and Anganwadi centers to run health camps in their communities. At the 13th World Congress on Public Health, the UHRC reported improvements in slum residents’ access to health services and information and adoption of healthy behaviors in intervention areas. Furthermore, they noted that as of 2009, 70% of children in intervention areas were completely immunized as opposed to 28% in areas that had not yet developed UHRC programs.\n\nIn addition to advocacy and education, UHRC women's groups also play a direct role in linking women in urban slums to health services. Women's group members frequently escort married adolescent migrant girls to hospitals for safer deliveries when they go into labor, and to ante-natal services which they may not otherwise be familiar with.\n\nOnce groups have developed a regular meeting schedule and have undertaken some basic health outreach activities, the UHRC proposes to groups that they could form a collective savings fund. These collective savings funds are essentially a method of risk pooling. Groups decide upon a certain monthly or weekly contribution that each member needs to make to grow their fund. All contributions to the pool are recorded by a treasurer who is elected by the group. The women are facilitated to establish standards for mutual accountability. The UHRC aids in establishing a record keeping system and in training the women to keep these records up to date – trainings cover how to track and record collective savings, loans given from the savings pool, interest received along with the principal amount, and essential elements of managing savings and loans. When a member or even a non-member family is in need of a loan, women’s groups can provide low to zero interest loans (for example one group in Agra, Saraswati Mahila Swasth Samiti, has adopted a 2% interest rate). Collecting payments, managing the fund, and administering all loans is facilitated by women’s group members with support from UHRC's team members. These funds play a crucial role in reducing the burden of health care costs on poor families, particularly during health emergencies. Loans are given for a variety of needs: a) Maternal and Child Health, b) Health emergencies, c) Prevention of school drop-outs, d) House improvements, e) Food insecurity, f) Expansion of small enterprises, g) Repaying debts from money-lender, and h) Social and family expenditures.\n\nBased on its initial experience with the program in Indore, and Agra, beginning November 2009, UHRC program strategies have evolved towards a broader development of the urban slums/vulnerable populations goal. UHRC has found educating communities about government resources and services to be particularly effective. As groups bring municipal problems forward, the UHRC will suggest that communities begin writing applications and letters to service providers, and holds trainings and workshops where group members can practice writing applications and learn about the importance of making and filing copies of all applications and letters that submitted. Field workers encourage groups to write highly specific, concrete requests that focus on a single issue rather than multiple issues to increase chances of success. They are also encouraged to have all members sign each request or petition to show consensus.\n\nUsually the first few petitions or letters written are followed by a period of struggle or stagnancy. Municipal service providers and government officials tend to be initially unresponsive and uncooperative. Group members are therefore trained to write reminders following up on requests and to seek formal receipts from civic authorities for any communications sent. For example, group members are trained to send reminders through the government postal system, which automatically provides receipts to senders.\n\nWomen’s groups also learn to recruit the support of democratically elected ward representatives who can help in interfacing with municipal corporations. Field workers guide group members to start by pursuing simple tasks, such as getting a street drain cleaned, before moving on to more ambitious projects such as road paving and water supply installation.\n\nUHRC women’s groups have also begun organizing rallies around community needs, such as ousting alcohol vendors to disincentivize alcoholism, demonstrating against gambling to protect household finances, advocating against domestic violence, or organizing public health advocacy campaigns. Groups have also orchestrated sit ins at government offices to urge them to be responsive to community needs and requests by providing services, such as slum street paving, drain installation, water supply and sewage system installation, health and nutrition services, food security services, widows pensions.\n\nThrough engagement with its target populations in Indore, Agra, and Delhi, the UHRC began focusing its efforts on helping slum residents attain proper identification documentation. Slum residents, and particularly migrant adolescents living within urban slums, who do not have proper documentation face barriers such as ineligibility for government welfare programs and education scholarships as well as housing insecurity. The UHRC assists women's group members to learn about and apply for various forms of picture ID, voter ID, proof-of-address, and other documentation.\n\nAnother of the UHRC's key roles is producing knowledge about urban slum poverty. One area of research for the UHRC has been aimed at catalyzing local urban governments to recognize yet unlisted slums. Censuses often exclude the homeless and informal urban settlements as such settlements are often built on land that is not legally owned by the residents. An analysis of five Indian cities conducted by the UHRC through field work and review of local records kept by UHRC community groups showed that 40% of slums were unlisted and thus not recognized by local governments. Further analysis revealed that unlisted slum residents made up about 36% of all slum residents in these cities. \"Slum enumeration\" techniques used by the UHRC rely on slum community members to draw upon their knowledge of their communities and to reach out to other households in their slum to collect information for the enumeration. Such activities and relationship building allow UHRC community groups to document additional information such as income flows, and make decisions about which slum-improvement initiatives to prioritize.\n\nDatasets and analyses of existing data generated by the UHRC have been used by UN organizations including the WHO and UN-Habitat. The UHRC's disaggregation and analysis of Demographic and Health Surveys (DHS) was highlighted in the WHO's \"Hidden Cities\" report.\n\nUsing India's National Family Health Survey (NFHS) dataset (an adaptation of DHS), the UHRC conducted an analysis of the poorest quartile of urban residents as compared to the rest of the urban population in Indian cities. David Satterthwaite in his Editorial in Environment and Urbanization 2011 highlights the significance of UHRC's research. He states that UHRC's research provides \"evidence of the lack of attention to the health of the urban poor. For instance, in 2004–2005, the under-five mortality rate of the poorest urban quartile in many states in India was two to three times that of the rest of the urban population. The evidence also points to considerable differences between states in this regard. The poorest urban quartile in Uttar Pradesh, for instance, had an under-five mortality rate more than double that of the poorest urban quartile in Maharashtra. The analysis revealed that the under-five mortality rate among the poorest quartile of urban residents in many provinces in India was nearly three times higher than for the rest of the urban population. Inter-provincial disparities also exist with Uttar Pradesh's under-five mortality more than twice as high as that of Maharashtra. The analysis also showed that among the poorest quartile: 60% of children had not completed immunization regiments and around 50% suffered from undernutrition, about half of all births were not assisted by health workers, less than 20% had a direct water supply, and more than half did not use a flush or pit toilet to dispose of waste.Sattherthwaite also stresses that UHRC's research exposes the \"scale of health disadvantages experienced by the poorest quartile of India’s urban population and the large disparities in provision of health care, water and sanitation and in housing conditions in the urban population of seven states, between the poorest quartile and the rest of the population.\" This work has been referenced in numerous publications including UNICEF's State of the World's Children 2012 report.\n\nThe UHRC also has a history of collaboration with Johns Hopkins Bloomberg School of Public Health to generate research on maternal and newborn health in slums and to assess the efficacy/implementation of existing interventions. One such collaboration revealed that factors affecting mothers' compliance with birth preparedness and complication readiness (BPACR) include maternal literacy and the use of antenatal services. Evidence from trials in Nepal, India, and countries in Africa have shown that promoting BPACR leads to more care-seeking behaviors among pregnant women. The research concluded that antenatal outreach sessions can be used to promote BPACR, especially if one of the focuses is enhancing the competency of traditional slum-based birth attendants. Another collaboration demonstrated the significance of the \"human touch method\" (HT) to detect hypothermia in neonates in Indian slum dwellings. The HT method was compared to axillary digital thermometry (ADT) and the results showed that while HT had moderate diagnostic accuracy when compared with ADT, it was simpler and more programmatically feasible as an early assessment of newborn sickness, freeing up field workers to focus on counseling mothers rather than managing technology. A third collaboration research with Johns Hopkins Bloomberg School of Public Health and King George Medical University, India surveyed women who gave birth in the three years preceding the survey. Results showed that 60% of pregnancies were registered with a health facility, and of these, only one quarter were registered with a government facility. Early registration facilitates early and frequent checkups during pregnancy and immediately after pregnancy and allows timely screening for complications. The survey showed that the low rate of government registrations was likely a result of poor-functioning public facilities, short-staffing of female doctors, poor referral systems, long queues, and impolite treatment towards slum women.\n\nIn 2004, prior to its renaming from USAID-EHP to the Urban Health Resource Centre, the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare designated UHRC as “the nodal technical agency for ‘Urban Health Programme’”. In this capacity, the UHRC’s role has been to “provide further assistance to State Governments in formulating urban health proposals and to provide concrete examples for planning of health care delivery to the urban poor in different categories of cities”. This technical assistance included recommendations for goals and objectives of the Urban Health Program, coverage criteria, and a workflow for the development of urban health proposals by cities eligible for support from the Ministry of Health The UHRC also played a key role in shaping the National Urban Health Mission (NUHM), a sub-mission to the National Rural Health Mission (NRHM) launched in 2013, intended to consolidate, focus, and expand the Government of India’s initiatives for addressing the needs of the urban poor which were formerly operated under the NRHM. Since its renaming to the UHRC, the organization has continued in its capacity of providing technical assistance to State Governments within India as they propose and execute urban health projects.\n\nAn example of the UHRC’s role in supporting state governments is its role in helping the Uttrakhand Health & Family Welfare Society to develop its Program Implementation Plan (PIP) under the National Rural Health Mission. Under the PIP, the UHRC’s New Delhi location was selected to run Urban Health Centres (UHCs) aimed at providing health care and support in slum communities and regularized outreach camps to vulnerable urban populations. The UHRC’s functions include coordinating NGO functionaries and collaborators and providing training to their staffs to help run UHCs, conducting GIS mapping of cities and slums to determine the most effective locations to place UHCs, and developing and piloting guidelines for women’s group programs through its experience in its other program cities such as Indore and Agra. Key activities of UHCs include providing maternal and child healthcare, providing antenatal and postnatal care, providing immunizations for newborns and children, care coordination through collaboration with other NGOs, behavior change education with regards to health and sanitation, resource awareness education for slum-dwelling families, and community capacity building through collective action initiatives.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "32093248", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32093248", "title": "Vaccine Information Statement", "text": "Vaccine Information Statement\n\nVaccine Information Statement is a formal description of a vaccine, with a concise description of the benefits of the vaccine, a concise description of the risks associated with the vaccine, a statement of the availability of the National Vaccine Injury Compensation Program, and is required as a provision of the United States National Childhood Vaccine Injury Act. Such materials shall be provided prior to the administration of a vaccine set forth in the Vaccine Injury Table.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "11351280", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11351280", "title": "Water supply and sanitation in Indonesia", "text": "Water supply and sanitation in Indonesia\n\nWater supply and sanitation in Indonesia is characterized by poor levels of access and service quality. Over 40 million people lack access to an improved water source and more than 110 million of the country’s 240 million population has no access to improved sanitation. Only about 2% of people have access to sewerage in urban areas; this is one of the lowest in the world among middle-income countries. Water pollution is widespread on Bali and Java. Women in Jakarta report spending US$11 per month on boiling water, implying a significant burden for the poor.\n\nThe estimated level of public investment of only US$2 per capita a year in 2005 was insufficient to expand services significantly and to properly maintain assets. Furthermore, policy responsibilities are fragmented between different Ministries. \nSince decentralization was introduced in Indonesia in 2001 local governments (districts) have gained responsibility for water supply and sanitation. However, this has so far not translated into an improvement of access or service quality, mainly because devolution of responsibilities has not been followed by adequate fund channeling mechanisms to carry out this responsibility. Local utilities remain weak. \n\nThe provision of clean drinking water has unfortunately not yet been taken up as a development priority, particularly at the provincial government level. The lack of access to clean water and sanitation remains a serious challenge, especially in slums and rural areas. This is a major concern because lack of clean water reduces the level of hygiene in the communities and it also raises the probability of people contracting skin diseases or other waterborne diseases. A failure to aggressively promote behaviour change, particularly among low-income families and slum dwellers, has further worsened the health impact of Indonesia’s water and sanitation situation.\n\nIndonesia has over 5,590 rivers, most of them short and steep. Because of high rainfall intensities most rivers carry large quantities of sediment. Average rainfall is above 2,000 mm on most islands, except for the Lesser Sunda Islands where it is 1,500 mm. 80% of rain falls during the rainy season (October to April). While water resources are quite abundant in Sumatra, Kalimantan, Sulawesi, Maluku and Irian, water shortages occur during the dry season in parts of Java, Bali and the Lesser Sunda Islands. In particular in Java, the dry season flows are inadequate to meet the demand, leading to irrigation shortages. Irrigation accounts for 93% of water use. The total storage capacity amounts to only 5% to 6% of the river flows. Construction of reservoirs is constrained by lack of good reservoir sites, high density of population at possible reservoir sites and expected short reservoir lifetimes due to siltation. Groundwater potential in Indonesia is very limited. However, much of the eastern islands depend on groundwater because of surface water scarcity. Groundwater overexploitation occurs in heavily populated coastal areas of Java, including in Jakarta and Semarang. In Jakarta it has caused seawater intrusion up to 10 km from the coast and land subsidence at a rate of 2–34 cm/year in east Jakarta. In Semarang land subsidence occurs at a rate of 9 cm/year.\n\nWater utilities abstract water from rivers and lakes (60%), springs (25%) and groundwater (15%). For example, the main water source for Jakarta is the Jatiluhur Dam on the Citarum River 70 km southeast of the city. For those who are self-supplied or receive water from community-based organizations, shallow groundwater and springs are by far the main sources of water on most islands. On Sumatra and Irian, however, rainwater harvesting is also an important water source.\n\nPollution. Domestic sewage, industrial effluents, agricultural runoff, and mismanaged solid waste are polluting surface and groundwater, especially in Java. Indonesia ranks among the worst countries in Asia in sewerage and sanitation coverage. Few Indonesian cities possess even minimal sanitation systems. The absence of an established sanitation network forces many households to rely upon private septic tanks or to dispose of their waste directly into rivers and canals. The commonality of the latter practice, together with the prevalence of polluted shallow wells used for drinking water supply in urban areas, has led to repeated epidemics of gastrointestinal infections.\n\nDomestic Waste.\nAccording to Water Environment Partnership in Asia (WEPA), only 42.8 percent from 51,372,661 houses in Indonesia have domestic waste treatment. More than half of households dispose their domestic waste directly to the river body. Data from the World Bank shows that in 2008, only 52% of Indonesian population has an adequate access to excreta disposal facilities. Such facilities are important as they can help to minimize human, animal, and insect contact with excreta, thereby increasing the hygiene level and enhancing the living conditions for the slum-dwellers. Without proper construction and maintenance of these facilities, domestic wastes are disposed ineffectively and increases the rate of water resources degradation.\n\nIndustrial Waste.\nIndustrial activities wastes such as small-scale industries, agriculture, textile, pulp and paper, petrochemical, mining and oil and gas also contribute to the degradation of water quality in Indonesia. Water quality in locations near to the mining areas is potentially contaminated by heavy metal such as mercury (Hg). According to WEPA, some level of mercury (Hg) concentration has been detected at 9 out of 16 sampling points and the highest level of dissolved mercury in one of the area reach 2.78 ug/l.\n\nTherefore, the result of water quality monitoring in 30 rivers in Indonesia indicates that most of river water quality do not meet water criteria class 1, i.e. water that can be used for standard water, drinking water, and or other usage that requires the same water quality with such usage, due to pollution by domestic and industrial wastes (drinking water raw based on Government Regulation Number 82, 2001, Water Quality Management and Wastewater Controlling).\n\n\"Source\": Joint Monitoring Programme for Water Supply and Sanitation WHO/UNICEF \n\nData on access to water and sanitation in Indonesia vary depending on the source consulted and the definition of access. According to the Joint Monitoring Program for Water Supply and Sanitation by WHO and UNICEF (see table above) access to an improved water source stood at 82% and access to improved sanitation at 54% in 2010.\n\nIndonesia has one of the lowest sewerage coverage levels in Asia with only 2 percent access in urban areas. Most excreta and wastewater are discharged untreated or semi-treated into local drains or water bodies, causing massive environmental pollution. Dense housing, severe seasonal flooding and the choking of drains with uncollected solid waste exacerbate the problem. According to the World Bank, urban sanitation is the least well addressed of major policy issues in Indonesia. In rural areas, access to improved sanitation has increased from 24% in 1990 to 44% in 2010. In 2010, 11% use shared latrines, 10% use unsanitary open pits and 35% defecate in fields, beaches and water bodies.\n\nNo data is available on the average continuity of water supply in Indonesian cities. However, in Jakarta 92% of users received continuous water supply in 2001. Concerning drinking water quality, about 30% of the water distributed by water companies in the country is contaminated with E. coli or fecal coliforms and other pathogens. The results of drinking water quality tests are not made public. Most Indonesians do not dare drink water directly from the tap and boil water or buy bottled water, if they can afford it.\n\nUnsafe drinking water is a major cause of diarrhea, which is the second leading killer of children under five in the country and accounts for about 20% of child deaths each year. Every year, at least 300 out of 1,000 Indonesians suffer from water-borne diseases, including cholera, dysentery, and typhoid fever, according to the Ministry of Health. World Bank’s Water and sanitation program (WSP) in 2008 revealed that poor sanitation, including poor hygiene causes at least 120 million disease episodes and also 50,000 premature deaths annually. Significant damage to the country's future potential in terms of infant mortality and child malnutrition in low-income areas of Indonesia is greatly associated with inadequate access to safe water and basic sanitation.\n\nPeople in Jakarta spend significant resources on boiling water to make it drinkable. Indonesian women report spending more than 100,000 rupiahs or 11 US dollars a month on kerosene for boiling water. However, a new system to treat drinking water at the household level without boiling has cut down on these costs and reduces health risks among women and children. The system, called “Air RahMat” or “gift water,” is produced by a private-public partnership called Aman Tirta. Members of Aman Tirta include the Johns Hopkins University and CARE International Indonesia. The brand name refers to a liquid 1.25% sodium hypochlorite (bleach) solution which is effective in deactivating micro-organisms such as E. coli in water. The solution was originally developed as part of the Safe Water Systems program of the U.S.-based Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. When used correctly in conjunction with proper storage, the water treatment solution has been shown to reduce the risk of diarrhea up to 85%. Air RahMat is also able to protect water for two to three days from recontamination.\nThe solution is easy to use by adding three milliliters of Air Rahmat for every 20 liters of water, shaking or stirring for 30 seconds, and waiting for at least 30 minutes until the water is ready to drink.\n\nThe economic costs associated with inadequate water supply and unsanitary conditions represent formidable obstacles to the improvement of living standard. The enormous economic costs resulting from chronic ill health can contribute to poor nutrition, poor school performance, reduced productivity, and permanent disability and thus represent a drag on economic development.\n\nOne of the key findings from the \"Economics of Sanitation Initiative\" with a Water and sanitation program study from Southeast Asia revealed that in 2006, Indonesia lost an estimated US$6.3 billion due to poor sanitation and hygiene, equivalent to approximately 2.3% of its gross domestic product (GDP). Of the impacts evaluated, health and water resources contribute most to the overall economic losses estimated in the study. These impacts are expected to cause financial losses to populations who have to pay for health services or who pay more to access clean water supplies, or who may lose income due to poor health. Poor sanitation also contributes up to $1.2 billion\nper year in population welfare losses due to additional time required to access unimproved sanitation, $166 million per year in tourism losses, and $96 million in environmental losses due to loss of productive land.\n\nEfforts to provide adequate water supply and sanitation facilities in Indonesia is also challenged by the country's population increase that led to postponement of investment in the infrastructure required for the provision of urban water and sanitation. Such challenge can lead to greater costs in the future.\n\nPolicy and regulatory responsibilities for the water and sanitation sector are shared among several ministries. While the Ministry of Health is responsible for water quality-related aspects, and to a certain extent rural services, responsibility for the urban sector is shared between the Ministry of Home Affairs and the Ministry of Public Works. The National Development Planning Agency (Bappenas) has a role in planning investments. The Ministry of Industry and Trade also has some responsibilities for the regulation of bottled water. A National Water Supply and Environmental Sanitation Working Group (Pokja AMPL) coordinates between departments and with donors and other stakeholders. The working group does not have a legal basis, nor secure funding.\n\nStrategies and policies. Most strategies for the sector are formulated at the national level. Capacity problems, funding constraints and political factors at the sub-national level often mean national strategies are not well implemented. Furthermore, law enforcement is weak, especially for environmental sanitation. In 2009 the Ministry of Public Works and the National Development Planning Agency, Bappenas, launched a roadmap called “Acceleration of Sanitation Development in Human Settlements” (PPSP) 2010-2014. The roadmap targets 330 cities that have sanitation problems, and aims at abolishing open defecation, improving solid waste management and reducing flooding. It foresees the construction of new and expanded sewerage networks in 16 cities, covering 5 million people, and of community-based decentralized wastewater management systems in every city, covering 6 millions people. The latter systems, called \"Sanitasi oleh Masyarakat\" (Sanitation by Communities), include neighborhood-level sewer systems with small wastewater treatment plants, typically using the Anaerobic Batch Reactor technology. The systems are completely operated by community-based organizations that collect user fees. According to research conducted in 2011, community-based organizations operate the systems fairly well, but are unable to undertake major maintenance such as removal of sludge from the wastewater treatment plants or repairs after natural disasters. In addition to decentralized sewer systems, the government also supports the construction of community toilets, although people prefer to have their individual toilets. Community toilets are a good alternative where individual toilets are not feasible, especially in areas subject to frequent flooding, where most residents are tenants or where there are severe space constraints and very densely populated slum areas.\n\nIn 2008 the Health Ministry launched a National Strategy for Community-Led Total Sanitation, emphasizing peer pressure and shame as drivers for rural sanitation instead of public investment. The Government’s National Program for Community Empowerment (PNPM—\"Program Nasional Pemberdayaan Masyarakat\") also has the potential to improve water and sanitation services through block grants, technical assistance and training to communities. However, similar broad programs have in the past only allocated around five per cent of funds to water and sanitation.\n\nLegal framework. Relevant laws include Law No. 7/2004 on water resources; Law No. 22/1999 on local government; Law No.32/2004 on Regional Government; and Law No.33/2004 on Fiscal Balance between the Center and the Regions. The water resource law aims at integrated and sustainable water resources management and clarifies the responsibilities of the central government as well as provincial and district governments in terms of water resources management, such as the granting of water abstraction licenses. The local government law was a landmark in terms of decentralization in Indonesia after the fall of Suharto, making the previous rhetorical commitment to decentralization a reality by transferring all powers except certain specifically enumerated powers to local government. The fiscal balance law greatly increased the revenue base for local government. Relevant implementing regulations include Government Act No.16/2005 \"on the development of the water supply system\", which allows private sector participation in water supply; two decrees by the Ministry of Public Works from 2006 and 2007 to establish a National Water Board; and the Ministry of Home Affairs Decree No. 23/2006 on guidelines for water tariff setting. The latter stipulates that tariffs should fully recover costs including a rate of return of 10 percent. The decree No.47/1999 of the Ministry of Home Affairs on guidelines for evaluating the performance of water service providers (benchmarking) has now lost some of its teeth because of the subsequent decentralization policy. Decrees by the Ministry of Health as well as the Ministry of Industry and Trade regulate the quality of bottled water, as well as for water kiosks that refill large water bottles.\n\nThe provision of water services in urban areas is the responsibility of PDAMs (Perusahaan Daerah Air Minum), Local Government Owned Water Utilities. There are 319 PDAMs in Indonesia. Two (Jakarta and North Sumatra) operate at provincial government level. All others operate at district government level, meaning at the level of a regency (of which there are 349) or a city (of which there are 91) (see List of regencies and cities of Indonesia) Most PDAM are very small, with less than 10 000 connections: only four per cent have more than 50 000 connections. Institutional responsibility for wastewater and sewerage is at the district government level; departmental responsibility varies between districts. Very few urban utilities provide sanitation services. Sanitation utilities are called PD-PAL or Local Government Owned Wastewater Utilities.\n\nSome smaller PDAMs have associated themselves under Public-Private Partnerships. The first such partnership was created under the provincial government of North Sumatra in 1999, involving six PDAMs led by the utility in Tirtanadi. Another partnership of 11 PDAMs was established in Eastern Indonesia together with the Dutch water company WMD.\n\nAs of 2011, 29 localities had signed contracts with private companies to operate, and sometimes also to finance, their water infrastructure. The largest contracts are two concession contracts in Jakarta (see Water privatization in Jakarta). Most other contracts are relatively small with water sales of less than 100,000 cubic meter per day. In some cases they are management contracts without investment responsibilities, such as in Panaikang-Massakar in Sulawesi. In many cases, the private companies also partly finance infrastructure, such as a water treatment plant, under Build Operate Transfer contracts. This is the case in Medan in North Sumatra and Bandung in West Java. The private partners are mostly Indonesian companies, such as the property developer Bakrieland or the water company Acuatico, or foreign companies such as the Singapore-based engineering company Moya Asia. The central government promotes public-private partnerships in water supply through guarantees and partial subsidies. However, as of 2011 many PPP projects had to be cancelled because of the difficulty of negotiating the terms between the central, regional and local governments.\n\nUtilities are associated in Perpamsi, the national association of water utilities created in 1972. The association has 394 member companies that serve 24% of the population of Indonesia. In 2003 Perpamsi initiated a performance benchmarking program with support from the World Bank. The data base currently contains 115 Water Utilities (PDAM) in Indonesia, including most of the larger ones.\n\nRural Indonesia has a long history of community-managed water supply services using naturally occurring springs, rainwater and groundwater sources. However, community capacities to sustain such water systems over long periods have tended to be limited. Past rural water supply and sanitation projects have often not invested sufficiently in building community capacity to plan, implement, operate and maintain services in ways that benefit and satisfy all sections of rural societies, conditions necessary for service sustainability. Rural consumers have not consistently been offered voice and choice in decisions related to establishing and managing services and paying for them. Services have often been provided in a top-down manner by agencies external to the community, using public sector or donor funds and contractors answerable to government agencies rather than to the users of services. This has led to mismatches between what the users want and get, a lack of community ownership of rural water supply and sanitation facilities and unclear responsibilities for maintenance.\n\nIn 2003 the government endorsed, but did not adopt a National Policy for the Development of Community-Managed Water Supply and Environmental Sanitation Facilities and Services that provides a road map for sector reform, by:\n\nThe community participation and cost recovery under the new approach has led to greater sustainability of services. For example, an evaluation of a Rural Water Supply and Sanitation Project supported by the Asian Development Bank that did not yet use the new approach revealed that less than four years after project completion, only 30 per cent of the water supply facilities and 30 per cent of sanitation facilities constructed by the project were still functioning. However, according to a Ministry of Health report that reviewed the functionality of water infrastructure in five districts that had implemented the World Bank-supported WSLIC project from 2001 to 2006, the average functionality of public taps was 72 per cent. The significant differences in functionality between the ADB and WSLIC activities has been largely attributed to the participation of communities in the construction of infrastructure and the communities recovering monthly fees to cover maintenance costs of water and sanitation systems.\n\nHowever, in peri-urban areas or rural areas that are increasingly absorbed in urban conglomerations, community management alone may not be an adequate arrangement. According to the World Bank, newer models of support and responsibility sharing between user communities and local governments or local private sector agencies are needed.\n\nCivil society groups, both local and international, play a vital role in the sector. Some are implementing water and sanitation programs in districts that have not yet received any form of government support in the sector. Despite their diversity, most are harmonised in their approach. Very few, however, work through government systems. Other civil society groups, including religious leaders in village communities, play a significant role in the success of community-based approaches. Religious leaders support community cohesion and influence and encourage clean and healthy behaviours to complement water and sanitation infrastructure.\n\nThe first water utilities in Indonesia, called PDAM after their Indonesian acronym, were set up during the colonial period at the beginning of the 20th century. Following independence in 1945 they became part of local government. In the 1970s the central government became more involved in their financing and management. In 1987 a government act nominally handed water supply back to local governments, but in reality central government remained very involved. Only after the fall of Suharto in 1998 a serious effort at decentralization was made with the local government law of 1999 that effectively handed over responsibility for water supply to local governments.\n\nJakarta privatization. In June 1997 two 25-year water concessions were awarded without bidding to serve the city of Jakarta beginning in February 1998. A subsidiary of The French firm Ondeo (now Suez), called Palyja, was awarded the concession for the western part of the city and a subsidiary of the British firm Thames Water International called TPJ was awarded a concession for the eastern part.\n\nPolicy for rural water supply and sanitation. In 2003 the government adopted a National Policy for the Development of Community-Managed Water Supply and Environmental Sanitation Facilities and Services that provides a clear route map for sector reform (for details see above).\n\nNon-revenue water (NRW) in Indonesia’s best utilities stands at only 20%, while the worst quartile of utilities participating in Perpamsi’s benchmarking exercise have NRW of 43%. However, NRW data is generally unreliable as many PDAMs do not have meters installed to accurately measure NRW. In terms of labor productivity, the best performing utilities have a staff ratio of 4 per 1000 connections, while utilities in the worst quartile have more than 9 staff per 1000 connections. Labor productivity for water utilities is considered to be at acceptable levels if it is below 5 per 1000 connections. In Jakarta the level of non-revenue water was 51% in 2001, one of the highest levels in Indonesia. However, in terms of labor productivity the two utilities in Jakarta fare relatively well with only 5.3 employees per 1000 connections.\n\nThe Ministry of Home Affairs Decree No. 23/2006 sets out a policy of full cost recovery through tariff revenues for water utilities. The decree prescribes an increasing-block water tariff with a first subsidized tariff block for a consumption of up to 10 cubic meters per household, and a break-even tariff for higher consumption. Commercial and industrial users can be charged higher tariffs with higher blocks at the full-cost tariff. However, in reality, few utilities recover their costs. According to a 2005 study by the Department of Public Works, most PDAMs faced financial problems. Only about a third increased tariffs between 1998 and 2005. One third of utilities had foreign debt, whose value in local currency increased substantially due to the devaluation of the rupeeh in the 1998 financial crisis. Many PDAMs defaulted on loans they had received from the Ministry of Finance. As of 2009 renegotiation of these loans (principal, interest and penalties) was still underway, thus cutting off the utilities from new government loans. \n\nAccording to the Asian Development Bank, in Jakarta the average tariff in 2001 (average of residential and commercial users) was US$ 0.29/m3, compared to production costs estimated at only US$ 0.11/m3. 98% of revenues billed were collected. According to these figures, at least the Jakarta utility managed to recover its costs. Since then tariffs have been increased several times and, according to the International Benchmarking Network for Water and Sanitation Utilities, reached US$ 0.77/m3.\n\nAs in many other countries, those not connected to water supply networks pay the most for water. A survey in North Jakarta found the price of water in the early 1990s was $2.62/m3 for vendor customers, $1.26/m3 for standpipe customers, $1.08/m3 for household resales customers, and only $0.18/m3 for connected households.\n\nThe water and sanitation sector is not given a high priority at the national or sub-national level, partly because of competing priorities from other sectors such as health and education. Few local governments use their own resources to implement water and sanitation activities and when given funding through open-menu infrastructure programs, local governments and communities rarely choose water and sanitation as the main activity. Most funding for the sector comes from the national level and the level of sub-national funding is often hidden as it occurs in several government departments. Funding estimates for the sector in 2008 were around one to two per cent of local government budgets.\n\nPublic investment. Total infrastructure spending in Indonesia was 55 trillion Rupiah in 2005 (US$ 5.7 billion). These expenditures were financed mainly by the local (23 trillion Rupiah) and central government (also 23 trillion Rupiah), followed by the provincial government (9 trillion Rupiah). Infrastructure investment stood at 10% of total government expenditures, as shown in the Table below.\n\nSource: Calculations based on [ World Bank Indonesia Public Finance Data Page]. All figures are in current trillion Rupiah for 2005.\n\nWhile it is not entirely clear how much of this sum has been invested in water supply and sanitation, the ADB estimates that only US$ 124m per year (average of 2004-2005) from the regular national budget were allocated to water supply and sanitation.\n\nSince decentralization in the year 2001, local Governments have typically invested less than 2% of their annual budgets on water supply, even less on sanitation and almost nothing on improving hygiene practices. Assuming that 2% of local government (provincial and district) budgets are spent on water and sanitation, local government investments in water and sanitation were 3.6 trillion Rupiah or US$375m or about three times higher than the US$124m financed through the central budget. Total investments thus can be very tentatively estimated at about US$500m, or slightly more than what has been estimated by one source as the required investments to meet the MDGs, or US$450 million per year At about US$2 per capita and year these investments still remain far lower than investments in water and sanitation in other middle-income countries.\n\nThe economic crisis of the late 1990s had severely curtailed investment in infrastructure. Central government spending on development dropped from US$14 billion in 1994 to US$5 billion in 2002, within which the share of infrastructure spending further declined from 57 to 30% over the same period. Moreover, according to the World Bank, poor institutional and regulatory frameworks and rampant corruption in the infrastructure sector, which were prevalent even before the crisis, continued without serious sector reform efforts by the government until today.\n\nUtility financing. Loan financing to PDAMs faces numerous challenges. For example, the Ministry of Finance requires its loans to be channeled through regional governments whose legislatures have to pledge future central government transfers as collateral. Since regional legislatures are reluctant to do so, central government lending to utilities is not likely to re-emerge even after the issue of old debt would be settled. Two efforts at promoting the issuing of corporate bonds by creditworthy utilities, one supported by partial guarantees by USAID and the other by KfW, have failed \"because of the risk-averse culture which is so pervasive in Indonesian central and regional governments\", according to a USAID report. Under a 2009 Presidential decree, however, state banks can provide partial credit guarantees of 70% of loans to creditworthy PDAMs plus an interest subsidy. As for direct lending by the Ministry of Finance, regional governments have to provide partial guarantees for these loans, which they are reluctant to provide.\n\nThus PDAMs are likely to be limited in their access to finance largely to grants, which are scarce. In 2009 there were three primary sources of national government grant funding for water supply:\n\nMicrofinance. Bank Negara Indonesia provides small loans to community-based organizations (CBOs) engaged in water supply in Java. The pilot project is part of a national program called Kredit Usaha Rakyat that provides loans for community and small scale enterprises. The World Bank's Water and Sanitation Program in collaboration with the AusAID-funded Indonesia Infrastructure Initiative (INDII), the Ministry of Public Works, and Directorate of Public Private Partnership Development of the National Development Planning Agency provide technical assistance to the CBOs.\n\nExternal support to the water and sanitation sector in Indonesia is provided through multilateral (World Bank, Asian Development Bank and UN) as well as bilateral cooperation with individual countries. Most external partners have focused their cooperation on rural areas, or work exclusively there. Most of the support for urban areas comes from Japan, the Netherlands and the United States.\n\nAsian Development Bank. The Community Water Services and Health Project, approved in 2005, aimed at providing clean water and sanitation facilities to about 1,500 communities of rural Indonesia, including tsunami-affected areas. The Directorate General of Communicable Disease Control and Environmental Health of the Ministry of Health is the executing agency of the project\n\nUNICEF. UNICEF supports the Indonesian government in developing and implementing strategies that improve drinking water and sanitation conditions across the country. UNICEF also assists the government in improving relevant planning mechanisms, monitoring systems and databases.\n\nWorld Bank. The World Bank's Third Water Supply and Sanitation for Low Income communities Project, approved in 2006, aims to increase the number of low-income rural and peri-urban populations accessing improved water and sanitation facilities and practicing improved hygiene behaviors. The project supports community driven development (CDD) planning and management of water, sanitation and hygiene improvement programs, builds stakeholder commitment and aims to expand the capacity of central, provincial and district government agencies. It provides participating communities with a menu of technical options for rural water supply and public sanitation infrastructure. The project is implemented by the Ministry of Health.\n\nThe World Bank's Water and Sanitation Program (WSP) focuses particularly on knowledge management and strategy development in sanitation. Between 2006 and 2010 WSP, with funding from Sweden and the Netherlands, generated increased political commitment for sanitation and increased the national government's capacity for sanitation planning through the \"Indonesia Sanitation Sector Development Program\" (ISSDP). This led to a coherent policy framework for urban sanitation, under which substantial investments are being undertaken from 2010 onwards.\n\nAustralia. Australia has supported efforts to improve rural water supply and sanitation in Indonesia, particularly Eastern Indonesia, for almost 30 years. AusAID's support is in the form of grants for technical assistance to the Water Supply and Sanitation Policy Formulation and Action Planning Project (WASPOL) of the World Bank's Water and Sanitation Program (WSP), as well as to the Second Water and Sanitation for Low-Income Communities program (WSLIC2), also funded mainly by the World Bank. A 2009 evaluation by the Australian government concluded that Australian aid to the water sector \"has been strategic, flexible and appropriate\" and has assisted in \"providing sustainable piped-water supply to some 4.6 million people and has dramatically improved sector coordination at national and sub national levels.\" The evaluation also noted that there has been much less focus on sanitation, although the Government has begun to replicate the innovative Community-Led Total Sanitation approach in an attempt to achieve open defecation free (ODF) communities. The report also noted that a \"national working group established through WASPOLA has strengthened government capacity in research, communications, marketing and public relations\", but that these approaches are less well integrated at the sub-national level. It also notes that \"despite its relatively low funding for this sector compared to that of some other donors and multilateral agencies, Australia is seen as a lead donor.\" It also notes that AusAID-supported technical assistance has \"relied heavily on external consultants and have not built enough technical capacity into government to ensure sustainability.\" Female participation at the local level was mandatory in the project, but once project handover occurred women’s participation often dropped. The community-managed approach \"enhanced transparency and accountability\", but districts are not using this model in their own projects due to lack of capacity and political will.\n\nCanada. CARE Canada and the Canadian International Development Agency (CIDA) support the CARE-Sulawesi Rural Community Development Project (SRCD). CARE uses the \"community management approach\", by which communities are heavily involved right from the very beginning, from the design through construction, implementation, operation and maintenance. The approach works by establishing a village water committee and a series of sub-committees: for example, sanitation, construction and finance. The village itself decides how it will raise the amount of money needed for its contribution to the project. This is usually done by monthly levy whereby each family contributes a small amount of money over the course of four to six months. The village construction committee also organizes the labour to install the system. All the labour is done manually without the use of heavy machinery, which means a low environmental impact and lower cost. With water close at hand, most households are also building their own simple latrines.\n\nThe Netherlands. The public Dutch water company Water Supply Company Drenthe (WMD) and Dutch development aid support various water companies in Eastern Indonesia. Joint venture contracts have been concluded with four companies (Ambon, Bacau (Maluku), Biak, Sorong (Irian Jaya/Papua). Negotiations are going on with seven other companies in North Sulawesi, Maluku and Papua. The WMD has reserved 3.4 million euros for the project.\n\nUnited States. Since early 2005 USAID has provided technical assistance to water utilities (PDAMs) in Java and Sumatra on issues related to full cost recovery tariffs and improved technical operation, with the objective of improving their creditworthiness and ability to borrow to meet network expansion needs. USAID is also looking at ways to use its partial credit guarantee mechanism to further increase local water utilities’ access to commercial financing.\n"}
