{"id": "27899583", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27899583", "title": "2007 PLFA season", "text": "2007 PLFA season\n\nThe 2007 season of the Polish American Football League (PLFA) was the 2nd season played by the major american football league in Poland. Regular season play was held from April 14 to September 23, 2007. The Polish champion title was eventually won by The Crew Wrocław when they defeated the AZS Silesia Miners; the Polish Bowl championship game, at Marymont stadium in Warsaw, Masovian Voivodeship on October 14.\n\nThree division winners and one runner-up was qualify to the play-offs.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "34453989", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34453989", "title": "2008–09 Al Wasl FC season", "text": "2008–09 Al Wasl FC season\n\nThis is a list of Al Wasl SC football transfers for the 2008-09 season.\n\n"}
{"id": "52517543", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52517543", "title": "2017 Nay Pyi Taw season", "text": "2017 Nay Pyi Taw season\n\nThe article regards Nay Pyi Taw F.C.'s 2017 season within the Myanmar National League. Nay Pyi Taw promoted to MNL.\n"}
{"id": "38452968", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38452968", "title": "9-man", "text": "9-man\n\n9-man (also nine-man, nineman, 9man) is a volleyball team sport utilizing nine players per side and a slightly larger court (10 by 20 meters). Historically, the sport was played by Chinese immigrants to the US, who predominantly hailed from Toisan (Taishan) city in Guangdong province of China. In the late 1930s the sport was used as a means to socially connect the laborers in Chinatowns across the United States. Teams from Boston and Providence, RI held the first organized nine-man tournament in 1938 which later spread to Chinatowns in other large US and Canadian cities. The North American version of 9-Man continues to grow today with a popular rotating tournament called the NACIVT uniting thousands of players and spectators each September over Labor Day weekend. It is unclear whether the sport was also played in the Asian Games in 1958 and in 1962 held in Tokyo and Jakarta, respectively, or if they were simply playing volleyball with nine players. The sport has not made a reappearance in the Asian Games since, and many believe that the rules of nine-man are exclusive to the community that plays in North America. The sport is the subject of an award-winning documentary called 9-Man that was completed in 2014 and had its world premiere at IFFBoston on April 27, 2014 at 1pm. The film was broadcast on the PBS World Channel series America ReFramed on May 5, 2015.\n\nNACIVT rules stipulate that at any given time, each team must have at least six players of \"100 percent\" Chinese descent on the court. The\nremaining three players must be of Asian descent; the NACIVT explicitly states who qualifies as Asian based on the country of origin of his ancestors - (Asian: origins from: Myanmar (formerly Burma), Cambodia, China, Hong Kong, Indonesia, Japan, Korea, Laos, Malaysia, Mongolia, Philippines, Singapore, Taiwan, Thailand and Vietnam). In addition, only men are allowed to play 9-man.\n\nThere are a number of ways in which 9-man rules differ from traditional Volleyball rules. As only men can play 9-man, during international tournaments, such as the NACIVT, women play by six-player Volleyball rules.\n\nRotating: Players in 9-man do not rotate as in traditional volleyball. As such, players tend to specialize in two or three positions.\n\nServing: Only 3 players are allowed to serve per team, it may be any 3 players. Teams must rotate servers. The players may serve from any position behind the line. Jump serves are not allow as one foot must remain on the ground while serving.\n\nScoring: 9-man implements a rally scoring system. Teams do not have to be serving in order to win a point. The first team to 21 points while holding a lead of at least two points is the winner. If there is no two-point lead, the first team to 25 points wins.\n\nTouch Limit: Each team is allowed three touches before the ball must be sent over the net to the opposing team. A block counts as a touch. A team is awarded an additional touch if the ball contacts the net during a volley. The other team is awarded a point if the ball comes into contact with any body part besides the arms and hands.\n\nBlocking: You can not penetrate across the plane of the net (called \"piking\"). Blocks must be straight up. If the ball comes into contact with your head, the play goes to the other team.\n\nBall Handling: There are several specialized moves in traditional nine-man. The preferred method of passing the ball is called a chai ball—an underhand scooping move. The fai-gok or fastball is typically the centermost position in the offense that has a signature move resembling a basketball dunk. The player pushes the ball upward and then quickly changes the direction of the ball slamming it to the ground. A net ball (pushing the ball into the net so that it rebounds and you can play it again) is often performed by the setter to upset the timing and rhythm of the game and throw off the defense.\n\nNACIVT Rules: NACIVT rules stipulate that at any given time, each team must have at least six players of \"100 percent\" Chinese descent on the court. The remaining three players must be of Asian descent.\n\nThe North American Chinese Invitational Volleyball Tournament (NACIVT) is held every Labor Day weekend and features men's 9-man volleyball and women's 6's volleyball teams. The tournament is generally held outdoors and played on pavement, with the courts typically set-up in a large parking lot or even on the streets. Because of changes in climate the tournament can also be held indoors (ex: Convention Centers.) It is very much a cultural phenomenon; two-thirds of the players on each team must be 100% Chinese, and the rest must be of Asian descent. The inaugural NACIVT tournament was held in Boston in 1944. Today there are teams representing Boston, Maryland, Los Angeles, Chicago, North Carolina, Houston, Montreal, New York City, Philadelphia, San Francisco, San Diego, Toronto, and Washington, D.C.. In 2009, a team from Shanghai was invited to participate in the Los Angeles NACIVT, and the players who were only familiar with six-person volleyball played with 9-man rules for the first time.\n\nEach year there are also mini tournaments held in Toronto, New York City, Philadelphia, Washington D.C., Los Angeles and San Francisco leading up to the annual NACIVT.\n\nThe New York Mini hosted by the New York Strangers, is one of the biggest tournaments leading up to the Labor Day weekend Nationals. It is held in Seward Park in Chinatown, averaging about 80 teams per year. Generally it is held in Mid-July with teams participating from Boston, Washington D.C., Philadelphia, Toronto, Montreal and North Carolina.\n\nThe August Moon tournament is played every August in Boston at Reggie Wong Memorial Park (formerly Pagoda Park) in Chinatown on Kneeland Street. This tournament features 9-man teams from the Boston area including the Boston Chinese Freemasons, Boston Knights, and the Boston Hurricanes.\n\nToronto typically hosts a mini tournament during Canada Day in which teams from Toronto and Montreal play.\n\nThe 69th NACIVT was hosted in Washington, D.C. over the 3-day 2013 Labor Day weekend.\n\nThe 70th NACIVT was hosted by San Francisco teams in Las Vegas over the 2014 Labor Day weekend.\n\nThe 71th NACIVT was hosted in New York over the 2015 Labor Day weekend.\n\nThe 72th NACIVT was hosted in Los Angeles over the 2016 Labor Day weekend.\n\nThe 73rd NACIVT was hosted in Fort Lauderdale over the 2017 Labor Day weekend.\n\nThe 74th NACIVT was hosted in Montreal over the 2018 Labor Day weekend.\n"}
{"id": "16560538", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16560538", "title": "ACS bolt", "text": "ACS bolt\n\nAn ACS bolt (also known as an anti-chop system) is a special type of bolt used in some Paintball markers. The purpose of the ACS bolt is to reduce the amount of chopping (when a paintball is pinched by the forward motion of the bolt, causing it to break) by using a system that detects when there is an obstruction in the chamber and brings the bolt back. Tippmann has a similar system on their model line called A.C.T., or \"Anti-Chop Technology\".\n\n"}
{"id": "16492476", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16492476", "title": "Afghanistan Cricket Board", "text": "Afghanistan Cricket Board\n\nThe Afghanistan Cricket Board (, ; formerly Afghanistan Cricket Federation) is the official governing body of the sport of cricket in Afghanistan. Its current headquarters is in Kabul, Afghanistan.\n\nThe Afghanistan Cricket Board is Afghanistan's representative at the International Cricket Council and was an associate member of ICC from June 2013 to 2017.Now it is one of the full members of ICC since 2017. Before that it was an affiliate member and has been a member of that body since 2001. It is also a member of the Asian Cricket Council.\n\nAfghan President Ashraf Ghani is the patron-in-chief of the board.\n\nOn 11 November 2010, the Afghan national women's cricket team was formed. This was to help females understand the game of cricket and have a parallel team to that of the men. Also policy states that as per Islamic tradition women can wear a headscarf or hijab which is their own choice.\n\nIn July 2016, ACB unveiled a strategic plan and set targets for Afghanistan to be a top-six ODI team by 2019 and a top-three team in both T20Is and ODIs by 2025. In order to achieve this, ACB created a proposal to be presented to BCCI, in the works to secure annual bilateral matches against India and teams touring India beginning next year. Shafiq Stanikzai, Chief Executive of ACB, said the draft had been presented to BCCI president Anurag Thakur in May and further discussions had happened during the ICC Annual Conference in Edinburgh in June, 2016.\n\nCricket was first played in Afghanistan during the 19th century Anglo-Afghan Wars, with British troops reported has having played in Kabul in 1839. However, unlike many countries, no lasting cricket legacy was left by the British, and it would be more than a hundred years before cricket returned.\n\nIn the 1990s, cricket became popular amongst Afghan refugees in Pakistan, and the Afghanistan Cricket Federation was formed there in 1995. They continued to play cricket on their return to their home country in late 2001. Like all sports, cricket was originally banned by the Taliban, but it became an exception in 2000 and the Afghanistan Cricket Federation was elected as an affiliate member of the ICC the following year.\n\nThe Afghanistan national cricket team's 21-run win over Namibia in Krugersdorp earned them official One Day International status in April 2009. The team qualified for the 2012 ICC Under-19 Cricket World Cup.\n\nOn 22 June 2017, Afghanistan was granted Test nation status by the ICC. This was the first time in history that two teams earned test status at the same time. Afghanistan share this honour with Ireland, thus bringing the number of total number of test playing nations to twelve. On 14 June 2018,they played their first test match against India, which they lost within two days.\n\nAfghanistan's domestic structure consists of a 25-over Inter-Provincial Tournament, which has the participation of 22 provinces in the tournament. The aim of the tournament is to spread the game across the country and to generate a greater depth of talent for the national team to select from. The best players from the tournament would be selected players for Afghanistan-A and under-19 teams based on their performance and would be sent for training and coaching to Bangladesh. Afghanistan teams often visit Pakistan. Currently Afghanistan A team is visiting Pakistan.\n\nTwo teams from the 12-team first round will advance to the next round. The top six from the tournament will then contest Afghanistan's main domestic event - a 50 over tournament in Kabul in May 2010. The 50 over tournament was won by Kabul Province.\n\nStarting in 2011, Afghanistan's domestic cricket structure has grown. The expanded Inter-Provincial Tournament was reorganized into a 50 over tournament and divided into a Challenge Cup section (the Etisalat ODN Challenge Cup with 20 provincial teams) and an Elite Cup section (with 12 provincial teams; 4 of them qualifiers from the Challenge Cup section). In addition to the Inter-Provincial cricket the Afghanistan Cricket Board (ACB) has divided the provinces of Afghanistan in to 5 Cricket Regions to enable the better management of the game. The Regions are Amo in the north (centered on Balkh), Spin Ghar in the east (centered on Nangarhar), Band-e-Amir in the centre (centered on Kabul), Mis Ainak in the southeast (centered on Khost), and Boost in the west and southwest (centered on Kandahar). The 5 regions in turn have representative teams which play in all traditional 3 formats of cricket; the Ahmad Shah Abdali One-Day Tournament, Ahmad Shah Abdali T20 Tournament and Ahmad Shah Abdali Three-Day Tournament.\n\nIn addition to an expansion of the inter-provincial tournament from 25-over matches to 50-over matches and the addition of the T-20 and multi-day formats, cricket in Afghanistan has now expanded across the provinces as well; 32 of the 34 provinces now have representatives sides All provinces except Daykundi and Farah have a representative team, while the ACB recognizes Afghan Refugees and Kochain as provincial teams. There are also plans to expand the three-day league competition into a four-day league in 2014.\n\nThe UAE-based telecommunications company, Etisalat is now one of the main sponsors of Afghanistan's cricket, including being the then title sponsor in Afghanistan's division 2 inter-provincinal challenge cup and the Etisalat Sixes T20 Tournament. Which is now sponsored by Afghan company called \"Alokozay\" Shpageeza Cricket League. \n\n\nThe Afghan national cricket team does not play its home matches inside Afghanistan due to the ongoing security situation and the lack of international standard facilities. Afghanistan played their 'home' Intercontinental Cup fixture against Ireland at the Rangiri Dambulla International Stadium in Sri Lanka. Following Afghanistan's World Twenty20 qualifying campaign they played two One Day Internationals against Canada at the Sharjah Cricket Association Stadium in the UAE, after which the stadium was named the 'home' ground of Afghanistan.\n\nWork on the Sherzai Cricket Stadium in Jalalabad, a city known in Afghanistan for being the 'capital of cricket', is in progress. Construction has also begun on the Kabul National Cricket Stadium and the Kandahar International Cricket Stadium in the south of the country. The President of the Afghanistan Cricket Board, Omar Zakhilwal, announced in October 2010 that the government was planning to construct standard cricket grounds in all 34 provinces in the next two years.\n\nThe following are the most important cricket stadiums in Afghanistan:\n\n\nThe Afghanistan national cricket team represents the country of Afghanistan in international cricket matches. The national team was formed in 2001, which played in the 2009 World Cup Qualifier after rising rapidly through the World Cricket League, starting in Division Five in May 2008. They play in the Elite division of the ACC Trophy.\n\nAfghanistan's 21-run win over Namibia in Krugersdorp earned them official One Day International status. Afghanistan won their first One Day International against Scotland. In 2011, the team qualified for the 2012 ICC Under-19 Cricket World Cup.\n\nAfghanistan played its first 50 over World Cup in 2015. It played 6 matches in all and won 1 match (against Scotland) and losing the rest. Afghanistan has played in 3 T20 World Cups, 2010, 2012 and 2014. They also qualified for ICC World T20-2016.\n\nIn December 2015, Afghanistan hired the services of Manoj Prabhakar, the former Indian all rounder as their bowling coach.\n\nThe Afghanistan national women's cricket team is the team that represents the country of Afghanistan in international women's cricket matches. The team was formed in 2010, drawing on players mostly from Kabul. Although the team is yet to play representative cricket, it had been scheduled to take part in the 2011 ACC Women’s Twenty20 in Kuwait, which ran from 17 – 25 February. The team was forced the withdraw from the tournament before travelling to Kuwait due to elements in Afghanistan opposing women's participation in sport\n\n\n"}
{"id": "8497988", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8497988", "title": "Arena Metallurg", "text": "Arena Metallurg\n\nArena Metallurg () is an indoor sporting arena located in Magnitogorsk, Russia. The capacity of the arena is 7,500 and was built in 2006. It is the home arena of the Metallurg Magnitogorsk ice hockey team. It replaced Romazan Ice Sports Palace in late 2006.\n\n"}
{"id": "3516254", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3516254", "title": "Aruba at the 1992 Summer Olympics", "text": "Aruba at the 1992 Summer Olympics\n\nAruba competed at the 1992 Summer Olympics in Barcelona, Spain. Five competitors, four men and one woman, took part in four events in three sports.\n\nTwo male cyclists represented Aruba in 1992.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "50759614", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50759614", "title": "Asian Powerlifting Championships 2016", "text": "Asian Powerlifting Championships 2016\n\nThe Asian Powerlifting Championships 2016 was held in Udaipur, India from 7 June 2016 to 12 June 2016. It was organized by Indian Powerlifting Federation, and sanctioned by Asian Powerlifting Federation and International Powerlifting Federation.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "7292674", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7292674", "title": "Busan Gudeok Stadium", "text": "Busan Gudeok Stadium\n\nThe Busan Gudeok Stadium (; Hanja: 釜山九德運動場) is a multi-purpose stadium in Busan, South Korea. It is currently used mostly for football matches. The stadium currently holds 12,349 spectators but previously had a capacity of 30,000 spectators. The venue opened in September 1928. During the 1988 Summer Olympics, it hosted some of the Olympic football matches. It was also the main venue for the 1997 East Asian Games hosting the opening and closing ceremonies, as well as the athletics and football competitions. Professional football team Busan IPark have played their home games at the venue since 2015 as well as between 1997 and 2002. Additionally, non-league football team Busan Transport Corporation FC have played their home games at the venue since 2006. \n\nDuring the 1988 Summer Olympics held in Seoul, eight soccer games took place at the Gudeok stadium including all three of South Korea's matches and one semi-final match. 180 players accompanied by 72 officials from nine countries competed for eleven days from September 17 through September 27, attracting a total of 146,320 spectators or 18,290 on average per day. A total of 675 million won was spent on the stadium before the tournament to improve the electronic scoreboard and other facilities. \n\n\n"}
{"id": "11969771", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11969771", "title": "Canada Games Stadium", "text": "Canada Games Stadium\n\nCanada Games Stadium is a multi-purpose, fully lit stadium in Saint John, New Brunswick.\n\nIt was built on the campus of UNB Saint John for the 1985 Canada Summer Games and has a seating capacity of 5,000 spectators.\n\nCanada Games Stadium features a 400m synthetic rubberized track surface, as well as separate areas for long jump/triple jump, high jump, pole vault, discus, hammer, shot put, and javelin. Inside the track is a synthetic turf soccer/football field.\n\nIn 2009 the stadium received $3.6 million in upgrades, including resurfacing the track, placing synthetic turf on the infield, the creation of an area for throwing events, grand stand renovations, infield lighting installation, a scoreboard, security lighting and perimeter fencing, and a new storage area.\n\nBesides hosting university and minor sports, the Canada Games Stadium has hosted national track & field events; international soccer matches (including matches during the 1987 FIFA U-16 World Championship), and two CFL pre-season football games (with temporary seating added) in 1986 and 1987. In 2012 the stadium hosted the NCCWMA & CMA Masters Track & Field Championships.\n\nIt has been announced that UNB Saint John will host the 2013 CCAA Men's National Soccer Championships.\n\n\n \n"}
{"id": "652569", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=652569", "title": "Center (basketball)", "text": "Center (basketball)\n\nThe center (C), also known as the five, or the big man, is one of the five positions in a regular basketball game. The center is normally the tallest player on the team, and often has a great deal of strength and body mass as well. In the NBA, the center is usually 6' 10\" (2.08 m) or taller and usually weighs 240 lbs (109 kg) or more. They traditonally have played close to the basket in the low post. A center with the ability to shoot outside from three-point range is known as stretch five. \n\nThe center is considered a necessary component for a successful team, especially in professional leagues such as the NBA. But recently, the NBA has turned into a point guard league and many centers are shooting threes now. Great centers have been the foundation for most of the dynasties in both the NBA and NCAA. The 6'10\" (2.08 m) George Mikan pioneered the Center position, shattering the widely held perception that tall players could not develop the agility and coordination to play basketball well, and ushering in the role of the dominant big man. He led DePaul University to the NIT title, then, after turning professional, won seven National Basketball League, Basketball Association of America and NBA Championships in his ten-year career (1946–56), nine of them with the Minneapolis Lakers. Using his height to dominate opposing players, Mikan invented the hook shot and the shot block; as a consequence, the NCAA, and later NBA, adopted the goaltending rule, and, in 1951, the NBA widened the foul lane, a decision known as the 'Mikan rule'.\n\nIn the 1960s, Bill Russell and Wilt Chamberlain further transformed basketball by combining height with a greater level of athleticism than previous centers. Following the retirement of George Mikan, the rivalry of the two big men came to dominate the NBA. Between the two of them, Chamberlain and Russell won nine of the eleven MVP awards in the eleven-year period between 1958 and 1969; played against one another in six Eastern Conference Finals and two NBA Finals between 1959 and 1969. Many of the records set by these two players have endured today. Most notably, Chamberlain and Russell hold the top eighteen season averages for rebounds.\n\nBill Russell led the University of San Francisco to two consecutive NCAA Championships (1955, 56). He joined the Boston Celtics and helped make them one of the greatest dynasties in NBA history, winning eleven championships over his thirteen-year career (1956–69) as well as five MVP awards. Russell revolutionized defensive strategy with his shot-blocking, rebounding and physical man-to-man defense. While he was never the focal point of the Celtics offense, much of the team's scoring came when Russell grabbed defensive rebounds and initiated fast breaks with precision outlet passes, primarily to point guard Bob Cousy. As the NBA's first African-American superstar, Russell struggled throughout his career with the racism he encountered from fans in Boston, particularly after the 1966–67 season, when he became the first African-American in any major sport to be named player-coach.\n\nHis principal rival, Wilt Chamberlain, listed at 7'1\" (2.15 m), 275 pounds (124 kg), lacked Russell's supporting cast. Chamberlain played college ball for the Kansas Jayhawks, leading them to the 1957 title game against the North Carolina Tar Heels. Although the Jayhawks lost by one point in triple overtime, Chamberlain was named the tournament's Most Outstanding Player. Briefly a member of the Harlem Globetrotters before joining the Philadelphia Warriors of the NBA in 1959, Chamberlain won two Championships, in 1967 with the Philadelphia 76ers and 1972 with the Los Angeles Lakers, although his teams were repeatedly defeated by the Celtics in the Eastern Conference and NBA Finals. He also won seven scoring titles, eleven rebounding titles, and four regular season Most Valuable Player awards, including the distinction, in 1960, of being the first rookie to receive the award. Stronger than any player of his era, he was usually capable of scoring and rebounding at will. Although he was the target of constant double- and triple-teaming, as well as fouling tactics designed to take advantage of his poor free-throw shooting, he set a number of records that have never been broken. Most notably, Chamberlain is the only player in NBA history to average more than 50 points in a season and score 100 points in a single game (both in 1961–62 as a member of the Philadelphia Warriors). He also holds the NBA's all-time records for rebounding average (27.2), rebounds in a single game (55), and career rebounds (23,924).\n\nA lesser-known center of the era was Nate Thurmond, who initially played the forward position opposite Wilt Chamberlain for the San Francisco Warriors but moved to center after Chamberlain was traded to the new Philadelphia franchise. Although he never won a Championship, Thurmond was known as the best screen setter in the league, and his averages of 21.3 and 22.0 rebounds per game in 1966–67 and 1967–68, are exceeded only by Chamberlain and Russell.\n\nIn contrast to the Celtics dynasty of the 1960s, the 1970s were a decade of parity in the NBA, with eight different champions and no back-to-back winners. At the college level, the UCLA Bruins, under Coach John Wooden, built the greatest dynasty in NCAA basketball history, winning seven consecutive titles between 1967 and 1973. UCLA had already won two consecutive titles in 1964 and 1965 with teams that pressed and emphasized guard play. After not winning in 1966, Wooden's teams changed their style when Lew Alcindor became eligible. He led UCLA to three championships-in 1967, 68' and 69'-while winning the first Naismith College Player of the Year Award. During his college career, the NCAA enacted a ban on dunking primarily because of Alcindor's dominant use of the shot. His entrance into the NBA with the Milwaukee Bucks in 1969 was timely, as Bill Russell had just retired and Wilt Chamberlain was 33 years old and increasingly plagued by injuries. After leading the Bucks to the 1971 NBA championship, teamed up with legendary Point guard Oscar Robertson, Alcindor, who had converted to Islam, changed his name to Kareem Abdul-Jabbar. In 1975, Abdul-Jabbar was traded to the Los Angeles Lakers, and, after the arrival of Point guard Magic Johnson in 1980, formed part of a new Lakers dynasty that won five NBA titles (1980, '82, '85, '87, '88). In addition, Abdul-Jabbar won six regular-season MVP awards (1971, '72, '74, '76, '77, '80). At 7'2\" (2.18 m), 235 pounds (106 kg), he lacked the strength of Chamberlain in his prime, but had a longer wingspan and ultimately proved more durable, adhering to a strict physical-fitness regime that enabled him to play for twenty years, the longest career in NBA history at the time. Offensively, he was best known for his trademark 'Skyhook' hook-shot, almost impossible to block because of his height and wingspan. His career record of 38,387 points has yet to be broken. Defensively, the 1973–74 season was the first in which the number of blocked shots were kept, and, over the next seven years, Kareem led the league in this statistic or finished second.\n\nAnother product of John Wooden's UCLA program, Bill Walton, appeared poised to join the ranks of great centers. He led UCLA to back-to-back NCAA titles in 1972 and 1973, he also led the Portland Trail Blazers to the NBA championship in 1977, and won the NBA MVP the following year. However, his career was plagued with injuries, most infamously a broken bone in his left foot suffered during his MVP season that he never fully recovered from, and he spent most of the following decade on the bench, although he eventually did win a second NBA title as a backup for the Boston Celtics in 1986, when he received the Sixth Man Award. Willis Reed won two championship with the New York Knicks in 1970 and 1973, teamed with Point guard Walt Frazier; although undersized for the center position at 6'9\", he had the strength to play inside, was a highly skilled jump shooter, and was effective at setting picks, a key element in the Knicks motion-oriented offense. The undersized but scrappy Dave Cowens, drafted at the recommendation of Bill Russell, helped the Boston Celtics win two more NBA titles, in 1974 and 1976.\n\nLeading centers of the late 1970s and early 1980s include Wes Unseld of the Baltimore/Washington Bullets, Artis Gilmore of the ABA Kentucky Colonels, Chicago Bulls and San Antonio Spurs; Moses Malone of the Houston Rockets and Philadelphia 76ers; Mark Eaton of the Utah Jazz and Robert Parish of the Boston Celtics, who was acquired from the Golden State Warriors in 1980 for the top overall pick in the NBA Draft. Unseld led the Bullets to four NBA finals appearances and one championship, in 1978. Using his strength and determination to compensate for his lack of size (6'7\", i.e. 2.00 m), he was famous for his rebounding, shotblocking, and bone-jarring picks. Artis Gilmore, often overlooked because of the mediocrity of his teams, established himself as the best low-post scorer in the league. He set the NCAA Division I record for career average in rebounds (25.2) at tiny Jacksonville University, and enjoyed an illustrious ABA career before joining the NBA's Chicago Bulls in 1976, playing there until he was traded to San Antonio in 1982, for whom he played until his retirement in 1987. He remains the NBA's career leader in field goal percentage (minimum 2000 shots made) with a 59.9 percentage. Malone, the first high school player to turn professional, was drafted by the Houston Rockets after several years in the ABA, and won two MVP Awards and led Houston to its first NBA Finals in 1981, before joining the Philadelphia 76ers, where, teamed with Julius Erving and Bobby Jones, he won an NBA Championship in 1983, as well as a third League MVP. Never a dominant defender, his quickness and tenacity made him one of the best rebounders in NBA history, particularly on the offensive end; he led the league in rebounds six times in a seven-year period and still holds the NBA record for offensive rebounds.\n\nIn the mid-1980s, the 7'4\" (2.23 m) Eaton was the most prolific shot-blocker in the league, and, although never a major offensive contributor, won two NBA Defensive Player of the Year Awards while helping transform the lowly Utah Jazz into a playoff contender. Of all these players, none enjoyed the success of Robert Parish, who, with forwards Larry Bird and Kevin McHale, formed the legendary frontcourt of the Boston Celtics team that won three titles (1981, 1984 and 1986). The Celtics' fierce rivalry with the Lakers dominated the NBA during the decade and helped basketball reach an unprecedented level of popularity. Nicknamed \"Chief\" after a character in the film \"One Flew Over the Cuckoo's Nest\" because of his stoic demeanor, Parish was known for his trademark arching jump-shot—leading many experts to consider him the best medium-range shooting center of all time—and his ability to finish fast-breaks with his surprising speed. Playing until the age of 43, Parish broke Abdul-Jabbar's record for career games played.\n\nCoach John Thompson, once a seldom-used backup to Bill Russell with the Celtics, developed the Georgetown Hoyas into a chief pipeline for talent at the Center position, producing a succession of great defensive big men in Patrick Ewing, Dikembe Mutombo and Alonzo Mourning. In 1984, Georgetown, led by Patrick Ewing, defeated the University of Houston, led by Hakeem Olajuwon, to win the NCAA championship. \n\nThe Nigerian-born Olajuwon was drafted by the Houston Rockets and paired with power forward Ralph Sampson in what was dubbed the 'Twin Towers' duo. In his second season, 1985–86, the Rockets upset the Lakers in the Western Conference finals. Olajuwon established himself as a dominant player, leading the Rockets to two consecutive NBA championships in 1994 and 1995. In the 1993–94 season he became the only player in NBA history to win the NBA's Most Valuable Player (MVP), Defensive Player of the Year, and Finals MVP awards in the same season. Defensively Olajuwon broke Abdul-Jabbar's career record for blocked shots. Offensively, he was best known for his 'Dream Shake', a series of fakes and spin moves regarded as the pinnacle of big man footwork.\n\nEwing, from Jamaica by way of the Boston area, was drafted by the New York Knicks in 1985, with whom he spent fifteen of his seventeen seasons in the NBA. An eleven-time All Star, Ewing was one of the best shooting centers in NBA history, possessing a baseline jump-shot, as well as being a formidable shot blocker and rebounder. The Knicks were formidable opponents of the Chicago Bulls dynasty in the Eastern Conference playoffs. Ewing's successor as the starting center at Georgetown, Dikembe Mutombo, who played most of his NBA career with the Denver Nuggets and Atlanta Hawks proved a dominant defender. Mutombo, who had not played basketball before arriving in the U.S. from his native Zaire on a USAID scholarship, was among the greatest shot blockers in NBA history, leading the NBA in blocked-shots five consecutive years, in the course of a career in which he ranked second in the history of the league in blocked shots, behind only Hakeem Olajuwon. He was also the recipient of four NBA Defensive Player of the Year Awards, tied for the record with Ben Wallace.\n\nThe 1992 NBA draft marked the entrance into the league of Shaquille O'Neal, who was drafted by the Orlando Magic. Immediately drawing comparisons to Wilt Chamberlain, the 7'1\" (2.15 m), 325-pound (147 kg) O'Neal was billed as potentially the most physically dominating player ever. By his third season, he led the league in scoring and led the Magic to the NBA Finals, where they were swept by the Houston Rockets. After the 1995–96 season, he signed with the rebuilding Los Angeles Lakers. Former Georgetown center Alonzo Mourning, also drafted in 1992, established himself as a premier big man with the Charlotte Hornets and, later, the Miami Heat, winning two Defensive Player of the Year Awards thanks to his prolific shot blocking while also proving a reliable scoring threat.\n\nThe balance of power shifted to the Western Conference, and the NBA was dominated by the Los Angeles Lakers, who won titles in 2000, '01, '02, '09, and '10, and the San Antonio Spurs, who won in '99, '03, '05, '07 and '14. The Lakers hired former Bulls coach Phil Jackson, and Shaquille O'Neal thrived in Jackson's triangle offense. The San Antonio Spurs were initially led by the 'Twin Towers' tandem of center David Robinson and power forward Tim Duncan. With the arrival of Duncan, the veteran Robinson modified his game by playing primarily in the high post to accommodate Duncan's strengths as a low-post scorer and defender.\n\nIn the 1990s, an increasing number of smaller forwards, most notably Dennis Rodman and Charles Barkley, excelled at the traditional Center functions of rebounding, shot-blocking and low-post defense, anticipating a trend towards relying on shorter and quicker post players that has continued into the 2000s, as exemplified by perennial Defensive Players of the Year Ben Wallace and Ron Artest. In the fast break oriented style of offense employed by a growing number of teams, the traditional role of the Center is diminished, if not done away with altogether. Many talented big men have elected to play the more versatile power forward position, giving them more room to run the floor and play outside the paint. The best example of this is Kevin Garnett, a 7-footer (2.13 m and above) who listed his height as 6'11\" (2.10 m) in order to avoid playing Center. Under the influence of European basketball, the offensive role of big men has been redefined to include more emphasis on perimeter play, as exemplified by 3-point shooting big men like Dirk Nowitzki, Mehmet Okur, Andrea Bargnani and Channing Frye. The Phoenix Suns also drafted Amar'e Stoudemire to support point guard Steve Nash during 2002–2010, but in the Knicks he also starts as a Power Forward instead of a Center.\n\nThe 7'6\" (2.29 m) Yao Ming was drafted by the Houston Rockets with tremendous hype in 2002; possessing unprecedented shooting touch and coordination for a player of his height, many experts predicted he would revolutionize basketball. Yao proved to be a highly efficient rebounder and scorer, particularly with his mid-range jump shot, and showed the potential to be an elite defender. However, he would retire in 2011 due to a string of foot injuries that caused him to miss all but five games in his final two NBA seasons. Another heralded young prospect, Dwight Howard of the Washington Wizards, has used his exceptional vertical leap to become one of the top rebounders in the NBA, while his spectacular slam dunks have made him a staple of highlight reels.\n\nThe low-post functions of the center position continued to dwindle in the 2010s as the NBA shifted into a more perimeter-oriented style of play. While there are still a few centers that play a more traditional style, some centers begin to adapt to the outside game.\n\nThe Miami Heat, for example, featured a \"positionless\" lineup as coined by head coach Erik Spoelstra, with power forwards Chris Bosh and Udonis Haslem shifting between center and power forward depending on matchups. The Heat won two NBA championships in and using this unconventional lineup.\n\nThe Golden State Warriors then won three championships in , and by utilizing this same approach, albeit with a smaller and quicker lineup. In this case, 6'7\" forward Draymond Green was often slotted into the center position, creating matchup problems for taller centers with his defensive versatility, speed, high basketball smarts and perimeter shooting.\n\nThe rise of the stretch five paved the way for centers to add outside shooting to their arsenal. While they continue to roam the paint at times, they have also expanded their game to the perimeter with their three-point shots.\n\nThe stretch 5 differs from the stretch four in that though stretch fives can shoot 3's, they don't shoot them as much as a Stretch four does. They also have some of the skills that traditional centers have, as opposed to the stretch four, who is generally mostly just a 3-point shooter and doesn't possess many traditional offensive skills that a power forward usually possesses.\n\nIn women's basketball, 7'0\" (2.13 m) Iuliana Semenova pioneered the center position, helping the Soviet Union women's team win two Olympic Gold medals, in 1976 and 1980, and never losing a game in international competition. Semenova also led her club team, TTT Riga to fifteen European Champion's Cup titles. The 6'8\" (2.03 m) Anne Donovan led the Old Dominion University Lady Monarchs to the 1979 Association for Intercollegiate Athletics for Women championship, and was the first female Naismith College Player of the Year recipient in 1983, before enjoying a successful professional career in Japan and Italy.\n\nWith the formation of the WNBA, Lisa Leslie established herself as the premier center, and the league's most popular player. The first WNBA player to reach the 3,000 point milestone, she led the Los Angeles Sparks to consecutive titles in 2001 and 2002, and holds the distinction of being the first player to dunk in a WNBA game. Other prominent centers in women's basketball include Australian Lauren Jackson of the Seattle Storm and Karl Malone's daughter Cheryl Ford of the Detroit Shock. Jackson can also be considered a forward-center because she is also a very good outside shooter, leading the WNBA in three-point shooting percentage in one season. Rebecca Lobo led the Connecticut Huskies to a NCAA Championship in 1995, but never recovered from a torn ACL and had a disappointing professional career. When at the University of Oklahoma, Courtney Paris was considered the next dominant female center after becoming the only NCAA player, male or female, to score 700 points, grab 500 rebounds and block 100 shots in a single season; however, she had a disappointing WNBA career and was waived before what would have been the start of her second season in 2010. The tallest center in the WNBA, the late Margo Dydek of Poland, who stood 7'2\", is still the league's career leader in blocks per game (2.72) and total blocks (877), solidly ahead of Leslie in that category despite Dydek having played 40 fewer games before retiring. Perhaps the most highly touted center in the women's game in decades, if not in history, is current Phoenix Mercury superstar Brittney Griner.\n\n"}
{"id": "243068", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=243068", "title": "Chase Field", "text": "Chase Field\n\nChase Field, formerly Bank One Ballpark, is a baseball park located in Downtown Phoenix, Arizona. It is the home of the Arizona Diamondbacks, the city's Major League Baseball (MLB) franchise. It opened in 1998, in time for the Diamondbacks' first game as an expansion team. Chase Field was the first stadium built in the United States with a retractable roof over a natural-grass playing surface, which will be replaced by synthetic turf before the 2019 season.\n\nThe park was built during a wave of new, baseball-only parks in the 1990s. Although nearly all of these parks were open-air, it was taken for granted that a domed stadium was a must for a major-league team to be a viable venture in the Phoenix area. Phoenix is by far the hottest major city in North America; the average high temperature during baseball's regular season is , and game-time temperatures well above are very common during the summer.\n\nIn the spring of 1994, the Maricopa County Board of Supervisors approved a quarter percentage point increase in the county sales tax to pay for their portion of the stadium funding. This came about at a time that the county itself was facing huge budget deficits and lack of funding for other services. The sales tax being levied was very unpopular with local citizens, who were not allowed to vote on the issue of funding a baseball stadium with general sales tax revenue (usage of public subsidies for stadium projects was actually prohibited by a 1989 referendum). The issue was so controversial and divisive that in August 1997, Maricopa County Supervisor Mary Rose Wilcox was shot and injured while leaving a county board meeting by Larry Naman, a homeless man, who attempted to argue in court that her support for the tax justified his attack. In May 1998, Naman was found guilty of attempted first-degree murder.\n\nCosts for the stadium were originally estimated at $279 million in 1995, but cost overruns (in part because of rising prices for steel and other materials) pushed the final price to $364 million. As part of the original stadium deal, the Diamondbacks were responsible for all construction costs above $253 million. These extra expenses, combined with the Diamondbacks and their fellow expansion franchise, the Tampa Bay Devil Rays, not being allowed to share in the national MLB revenue for their first 5 years of operations, left the Diamondbacks in a less-than-desirable financial situation, which would come back to haunt team founder and managing partner Jerry Colangelo and his group later on.\n\nConstruction on the park began in 1996, and was finished just before the Diamondbacks' first season began, in 1998. It was the third MLB stadium to have a retractable roof and the first in the United States (at the time, only Toronto's SkyDome, now Rogers Centre and Montreal's Olympic Stadium had them; others are now at Minute Maid Park in Houston, Miller Park in Milwaukee, Safeco Field in Seattle and Marlins Park in Miami). It was also the first ballpark to feature natural grass in a retractable roof stadium.\n\nThe stadium hosted Games 1, 2, 6, and 7 of the 2001 World Series between the Arizona Diamondbacks and the New York Yankees. The Diamondbacks won all four home games, winning the world championship in seven games, and thus denying the Yankees a fourth consecutive championship. It was the first time since that the home team won all home games of a World Series. The only other incident was , both by the Minnesota Twins.\n\nChase Field was originally named Bank One Ballpark after Bank One of Chicago, Illinois, giving rise to its nickname \"BOB\". After Bank One merged with New York-based JPMorgan Chase & Co., the name change was announced on September 23, 2005.\n\nIn March 2006, Chase Field played host to three first-round games of the World Baseball Classic.\n\nChase Field hosted the Major League Baseball All-Star Game in 2011.\n\nChase Field hosted the 2017 National League Wild Card Game between the Diamondbacks and Colorado Rockies. This was the D-Backs' first appearance in the postseason as a Wild Card team. The D-Backs won 11-8 and advanced to the 2017 NLDS against the Los Angeles Dodgers but were swept in three games. Game 3 was held at Chase Field, when the D-Backs lost 3-1.\nChase Field also has a swimming pool sponsored by Ram Trucks, located in right-center field, which is rented to patrons as a suite holding 35 guests for $3,500 per game during the 2011 season. Mark Grace was the first player to \"splash\" a home run into the pool.\n\nIn addition to baseball, the pool has been used by Monster Jam's Jim Koehler to continue his tradition of swimming after Freestyle. The ballpark also features a dirt strip between home plate and the pitcher's mound, one of only two current ballparks to do so (Comerica Park in Detroit is the other). This dirt strip, sometimes known as the \"keyhole\", was very common in old-time ballparks.\n\nThe park's foul territory is somewhat larger than is the case for most ballparks built in the 1990s. With 80% of the seats in foul territory, the upper deck is one of the highest in the majors. The park's suites are tucked far under the third deck, which keeps the upper deck closer to the action, with the exception of their Dugout Suites which sit next to the home and visitor's dugouts.\n\nBefore the 2008 season began, a brand new High Definition scoreboard was installed beyond center field, replacing the original. The new scoreboard is high and wide and it cost $14 million. It is the fifth largest HD screen in Major League Baseball behind Kauffman Stadium. The screen at Kauffman is larger by overall area and is square in shape but Chase Field's screen is larger by length and is rectangular.\n\nPremium seating includes 4,400 club seats, 57 suites, 6 party suites, Executive suite, batters box suite, two dugout suites, and the Ramtrucks.com Party Pool.\n\nThe Diamondbacks and Los Angeles Dodgers game on April 2, 2018 lasted for five hours and 46 minutes in 15 innings, the longest running game by time in Chase Field history. The longest game by inning is tied between the game between the D-Backs and Cardinals on April 3, 2013 and the game between the D-Backs and Padres on July 8, 2018. Both of these games went to 16 innings.\n\nOn October 12, 2018, the Diamondbacks announced they would be replacing their natural grass surface with a synthetic surface from Shaw Sports Turf for the 2019 season.\n\nThe stadium also hosts occasional concerts and international soccer games. For football and soccer, the field is set up with the end lines perpendicular to the third-base line and temporary bleachers added on the east side.\n\nThe organizers of the Insight.com Bowl elected to move their game from Arizona Stadium in Tucson to Phoenix beginning in 2000, and Chase Field became the game's host. In 2006, the bowl game moved to Sun Devil Stadium, to replace the Fiesta Bowl, which moved to University of Phoenix Stadium in Glendale, Arizona. The football configuration was notable because of the lack of nets behind the goalposts and the dugout behind the south end zone. The final Insight Bowl played at Chase was between the hometown Arizona State Sun Devils and the Rutgers Scarlet Knights. The bowl, now known as the \"Cheez-it Bowl\", returned to Chase Field in January 2016 due to construction being done at Sun Devil Stadium.\n\nChase Field has staged nine women's college basketball games. The second game, which was played on December 18, 2006, was shortened by rain with four minutes and 18 seconds remaining and Arizona State leading Texas Tech 61–45. Venue staff closed the roof in an effort to finish the game, but officials deemed the court unsafe. In 2000, ASU played the Tennessee Volunteers at the same facility.\n\nChase Field was also the site of the \"Challenge at Chase\", a college baseball game between Arizona State and University of Arizona. Arizona won both contests. There has been no game scheduled there since 2008.\n\nIn February 2006, the Professional Bull Riders hosted a Built Ford Tough Series bull riding event at this venue. Chris Shivers won this event with a total score of 181.5 points (out of a possible 200) on two bulls, including an impressive 93.75 (out of 100) points on Taylor Made bucking bull, Smokeless Wardance, in the short-go round. During the long-go round, the roof was closed, but during the short-go, the roof was opened.\n\nThe stadium has hosted Monster Energy Supercross rounds from 1999 to 2015. Monster Jam came to Chase Field every year in late January about two weeks after Monster Energy Supercross. Both events moved to the University of Phoenix Stadium in 2016.\n\nWWE will host the Royal Rumble at Chase Field in 2019, marking the first time the event will be held at a baseball stadium.\n\nChase Field's roof is opened or closed depending on the game-time temperature. When the decision is made to close the roof, it is left open for as long as possible before game time in order to keep the grass growing. Even when the roof is closed, the park's windows allow enough sunlight to play in true daylight without overheating the stadium.\n\nThe roof, which takes just 4½ minutes to open or close at a cost of $2–$3, is closed three hours before game time using two 200-horsepower motors triggered from a control room in the upper deck above left-center field. A massive HVAC system then drops the temperature inside the park 30 °F (17 °C) by the time the gates open. The chilled water system, which has cooling power equivalent to 2,500 homes of 2,000 square feet, also serves more than 30 buildings in downtown Phoenix. The cooling plant, located in a separate building right outside the ballpark, freezes water overnight to reduce daytime electricity demand. Originally, the HVAC system didn't cool above row 25 of the upper level, exposing fans in the higher rows to the heat during Arizona summers. Changes since then keep virtually all of the facility in air-conditioned comfort.\nChase Field is served by Westbound METRO Rail's Washington at 3rd Street station and Eastbound METRO Rail's Jefferson at 3rd Street station.\n\n"}
{"id": "7716642", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7716642", "title": "Chile at the 2002 Winter Olympics", "text": "Chile at the 2002 Winter Olympics\n\nChile competed at the 2002 Winter Olympics in Salt Lake City, United States.\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "5207465", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5207465", "title": "Club Deportivo Palestino", "text": "Club Deportivo Palestino\n\nClub Deportivo Palestino is a professional football club based in the city of Santiago, Chile. The club was founded in 1920 and plays in the Primera División de Chile. They play their home games at the Estadio Municipal de La Cisterna stadium, which has a capacity of approximately 8,000 seats.\n\nThe club was founded on 20 August 1920, when they participated in a colonial competition in Osorno. It was founded by a group of Palestinian immigrants; the name of the club reflects the origin in Chile's Palestinian community. In 1952 the Federación de Fútbol de Chile set up the first professional leagues. Palestino was accepted into the Second Division, which they won to ascertain promotion to the Primera División.\n\nIn 1955 the club won their first national championship under the coaching of Argentine captain \"Guillermo Coll\", in that era the club became known by the nickname \"millonario\" (Millionaire) because of their ability to attract top class footballers.\n\nIn 1978 the club won their second league title, this time the team was led by Chilean captain Elías Figueroa. In this campaign they set a new record in the domestic tournament, for the number of games unbeaten and soon won the Copa Chile to claim the league and cup double.\n\nIn 2004 the club became a registered company, but the change of status did not bring the expected improvement in results. In 2006 they finished in 18th place out of 20 teams, forcing them to face a play-off against Fernandez Vial to keep their place in the top flight. Ultimately the club would triumph thus preserving their spot within the Chilean first division.\n\nThe club made a surprising run to the final of the Clausura 2008 tournament, where they lost to champions Colo-Colo. Following this success, the club intends to float on the Chilean and Palestinian stock exchanges.\n\nIn January 2014, Palestino was fined the equivalent of $1,300 for using a new team jersey with the club's traditional colors, red, green and black, and with the number one shaped as the map of Palestine before the creation of Israel. Chilean Jewish groups complained, with a formal complaint to their national Federation being made by Patrick Kiblisky, owner of first-division club Ñublense. The jerseys were said to have been first used in December 2013, although the club said they were used in the prior season. The federation banned the shirts and fined the club by the grounds that the Federation is opposed to \"any form of political, religious, sexual, ethnic, social or racial discrimination\". On its Facebook page, the club stated: \"For us, free Palestine will always be historical Palestine, nothing less.\"\n\n\n\n\n\n\nThe women's team have won the 2015 Clausura tournament. Thus ending a ten-season title streak of Colo-Colo. The captain, Ashraf Khatib, lifted the title. She was quoted as saying it was a pleasure to be the first actual Palestinian woman to lift the title in Chile. \n\n"}
{"id": "8649115", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8649115", "title": "Cocodrilos Sports Park", "text": "Cocodrilos Sports Park\n\nCocodrilos Sports Park is a multi-use stadium in Caracas, Venezuela. It is currently used mostly for football matches and is the part-time home stadium of Caracas Fútbol Club along with Estadio Brígido Iriarte. The stadium holds 3,500 people.\n\n"}
{"id": "7755837", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7755837", "title": "Costa Rica at the 1988 Winter Olympics", "text": "Costa Rica at the 1988 Winter Olympics\n\nCosta Rica competed at the 1988 Winter Olympics in Calgary, Canada.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "706736", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=706736", "title": "Elland Road", "text": "Elland Road\n\nElland Road is a football stadium in Leeds, West Yorkshire, England, which has been the home of Leeds United FC since the club's foundation in 1919. The stadium is the 13th largest football stadium in England, and the fourth largest outside the Premier League.\n\nThe ground has hosted FA Cup semi-final matches as a neutral venue, and England international fixtures, and was selected as one of eight Euro 96 venues. Elland Road was used by rugby league club Hunslet in the mid-1980s and hosted two matches of the 2015 Rugby World Cup. The stadium has hosted concerts, including performances by rock bands Queen, U2, Happy Mondays and the Kaiser Chiefs.\n\nElland Road has four stands – the Revie Stand, the East Stand, the South Stand and the John Charles Stand– and a capacity of 37,890. The record attendance of 57,892 was set on 15 March 1967 in an FA Cup 5th round replay against Sunderland. This was before the stadium became an all-seater venue as stipulated by the Taylor Report and the modern record is 40,287 for a Premiership match against Newcastle United on 22 December 2001.\n\nThe site, at the foot of Beeston Hill beside the A643 road to Elland, was owned by Bentley's Brewery and was called the Old Peacock Ground, after the pub which faced the land, hence the nickname the Peacocks associated with both Leeds City and United. The first occupants were Holbeck Rugby Club (rugby league) who moved from Holbeck Recreation Ground after buying the Old Peacock Ground from Bentley's for £1,100. The first competitive football match at the ground was the West Yorkshire Cup final on 23 April 1898 between Hunslet and Harrogate, with Hunslet winning 1–0.\n\nThe club erected a new stand in readiness for the 1898–99 season. The ground eventually became known simply as Elland Road. For the 1902–03 season the Association football team, Leeds Woodville of the Leeds League, shared the ground with Holbeck RLFC in the 1902–03 season, but Holbeck went under in 1904 after losing a play-off against St. Helens and the ground was put on the market. After a meeting at the Griffin Hotel in Boar Lane in August, a new club, Leeds City, was formed and it was agreed that the Elland Road ground would be rented for the upcoming season. The lease was signed on 13 October 1904, for a rent of £75 per year. The club had an option to buy the ground for £5,000 in March 1905, but in November, the price was reduced to £4,500.\n\nAfter City's first season in the Football League, the club built a 5,000-seater covered stand on the west side at a cost of £1,050. Attendances were rising, culminating in over 22,500 people cramming into the stadium to watch a local derby with Bradford City on 30 December, bringing in £487 of gate receipts. An expansion programme continued and the club's directors ensured that the initial success was built upon, employing a \"ground committee\" to oversee developments. In February 1906, 3,961 square yards of land on the Churwell and Gelderd Road side of the ground was bought from the Monk's Bridge Iron Company at a cost of £420. The committee built a 4,000-seater grandstand which the Lord Mayor, Joseph Hepworth, unveilled before a match against Chelsea on 17 November. The project cost £3,000 and over half a mile of steel was used. There was a training track for the players that ran the length of the stand, dressing and officials rooms and a motor garage. Drainage work was carried out on the pitch to prevent it from becoming waterlogged.\n\nCity experienced financial hardships jeopardising the club's future but after much uncertainty, an offer of £1,000 and an annual rental of £250 was accepted for the ground. The ground was used during the Great War as a venue for drill and shooting practice until the 1919–20 season commenced. City started that season brightly, but scandal arose involving illegal payments to players during the war years and the club was expelled from the Football League after only eight games. This led some local businessmen to contemplate digging up the clay deposits under the pitch and turning Elland Road into a brickyard. Yorkshire Amateurs became the tenants, and that club played there for a brief spell saving the ground from development.\n\nIn 1920, Yorkshire Amateurs sold Elland Road to the newly formed Leeds United for £250.\n\nIn the 1920s, the South Stand terrace was covered with a wooden barrel-shaped roof and came to be known as the Scratching Shed. Another stand was built on the east side terracing called the Lowfields. Behind the goal at the north end was a terrace known as the Spion Kop, or simply Kop, from a hill in South Africa on which 322 British soldiers lost their lives in the Battle of Spion Kop, in January 1900, in the Boer War.\n\nNo significant changes were made to Elland Road in the 1930s, and 1940s, although it did see some large attendances. On 27 December 1932, 56,796 spectators attended for the visit of eventual champions Arsenal – a record that would last for almost 35 years. The last game of that season saw Leeds play Middlesbrough at home in front of a 9,006 spectators. The stadium was chosen to host the all city of Leeds Rugby Football League Championship Final between Leeds and Hunslet in 1938, when a crowd of 54,112 saw Hunslet win the title. In the Second World War, the ground was requisitioned by the War Office for administrative purposes.\n\nFloodlights were first used on 9 November 1953 for a match against Hibernian when the £7,000 lights, claimed to be the most expensive in the country at the time, were switched on. The game attracted 31,500 spectators who saw two goals each from John Charles and manager Raich Carter as Leeds beat the Scottish side 4–1. It was the first of several Monday night games against teams from north of the border and in successive weeks, Dundee and Falkirk were the visitors to Elland Road.\nIn the early hours of Tuesday 18 September 1956, a fire gutted the West Stand and scorched large sections of the pitch. The blaze consumed the entire structure, including offices, kit, club records, physiotherapy equipment, dressing rooms, directors' rooms, the press box and the generators for the floodlighting system. The roof of the stand collapsed into the seating area before the fire brigade arrived and the total damage was estimated to be £100,000, but the club's insurance cover was inadequate. The players helped clear rubble and wreckage but the 2,500-seater stand could not be salvaged. After a board meeting, the directors decided to launch a public appeal to build a new stand with assistance from Leeds City Council. The appeal raised £60,000 and a £180,000 West Stand was opened at the start of the following season.\n\nThe new stand had of 4,000 seats mounted behind a paddock, which could hold a 6,000 standing spectators. Two years later another fire started after a Central League match against Preston North End affecting the West Stand. Fortunately, Cyril Williamson, the club secretary, and several directors were on hand and the fire was extinguished and no significant damage was caused.\n\nThe 1960s saw the arrival of Don Revie as manager and the club were promoted to the First Division. The club finished in the top four places for the next ten seasons and Elland Road hosted its first televised game – a league fixture against Everton on 20 March 1965 – and Leeds were 4–1 winners. Great advances were made on the stadium during Revie's reign and a new attendance record of 57,892 was set on 15 March 1967, in a fifth-round replay of the FA Cup against Sunderland. In April 1968, the Spion Kop terracing was stripped away to make way for a new stand at a cost of £250,000. The roofed structure was built in less than six weeks and became known as the Gelderd End. When completed it left around of land behind the goal which was turfed and the pitch moved north.\n\nFurther improvements in 1970 included the coupling of the West Stand and the Kop with a £200,000 corner stand, the North-West corner. To complement the upgrade, an almost identical stand was built, linking the Lowfields stand and the Kop, which cost £200,000. In 1972, when the Leeds United Sports and Souvenir Shop opened, featuring a programme collection. In 1974, Leeds won the league for the second time and the Scratching Shed was dismantled and replaced by the South Stand at a cost of £500,000. This state of the art development comprised a standing paddock capable of holding 4,000 fans, a row of 16 executive boxes, above which was an all-seater 3,500 capacity stand. Plans to link the South Stand with the Lowfields were curtailled when Leeds ran out of money. In the same year, the floodlights were replaced by the tallest floodlights in Europe, measuring . Initially, three floodlights were erected – two at either side of the Kop and another in the South-West corner – and the other was erected four years later.\n\nThe first match televised live was the rugby league Challenge Cup final replay between Hull FC and Widnes played on 19 May 1982. In summer 1982, Leeds sold Elland Road to Leeds City Council for £2.5m, and the council granted the club a 125-year lease. Ambitious plans to improve the stadium and neighbouring sporting facilities were designed in 1987 by Newcastle upon Tyne architects and promoted by developers Baltic Consortium and W.H. White. The estimated costs were between £50 million and £75 million to re-build the Lowfields with a 7,500 all-seater stand and construct a peripheral 2,000-seater sports stadium adjacent to the stand. Other plans included a shopping centre, ice rink, cricket hall, cinema, nightclub, café, restaurant, waterpark, leisure centre and shops. None of the designs were acted on.\nIn September 1991, the South-East corner was opened, joining the South and Lowfields Stands providing a full corner stand for away supporters. This section was used as the \"family stand\" until membership proved too big for its 1,710 capacity and a new home found in the East Stand. It is prominent because of its yellow seats, which have given its nickname, the \"cheese wedge\". A banqueting suite at the rear of the west stand, with a conference centre, was opened in April 1992. The biggest renovation project to date began in 1992, when the Lowfields was replaced by a new East Stand – a 17,000-seater stand with two tiers and no restricted views. On completion in 1993, at a cost of £5.5m, it housed 25 executive boxes, 10,000 seats in the bottom tier, part of which formed the members-only family section, and a further 7,000 seats in the upper tier. The East Stand was then the biggest cantilever stand in the world. In the close season of 1994 Elland Road became an all-seater stadium, with nearly 7,000 seats replacing the terracing in the Kop, as directed by the Taylor Report. The new-look Kop was officially opened in October by the club's president, George Lascelles, 7th Earl of Harewood and Mrs E Revie, widow of the late Don Revie. The Gelderd End was renamed the Don Revie Stand in honour of the club's former manager.\n\nOn 16 November 1997, the third and deciding match of the Super League Test series between Great Britain and Australia was played at Elland Road before a crowd of 39,337.\n\nIn December 1997, £11.3 million plans to improve the West and South Stands were unveiled which would have raised capacity to around 45,000. A new structure mirroring the East Stand would have seated around 12,000 people. A three-tier structure would focus on hospitality with a 15,000-seater indoor arena at the rear of the West Stand. This venue would have accommodated basketball, ice hockey, pop concerts and other events. However, after naming an ice hockey team, Leeds Lasers, to play at the arena, the project was shelved. Leeds received the ownership of Elland Road once again in 1998, when the new owners, Leeds Sporting Company agreed to pay £10m to buy back the stadium from Leeds City Council.\n\nOn 16 August 2001, chairman Peter Ridsdale sent a letter to season ticket holders and shareholders regarding the future of the club outlining two options, to improve Elland Road or to relocate. A ballot form was included but the letter was biased in favour of relocation. Less than 13% voted to stay at Elland Road and 87.6% of the 18,500 who voted were in favour of the move. On 7 September 2001, Ridsdale announced his intention to move the club to a 50,000-seat stadium at Skelton in time for the 2004–05 season. The plans never came to fruition as Ridsdale resigned in March 2003, leaving financial disarray and the PLC was soon to follow in March 2004.\n\nLater that year, Elland Road was sold with a 25-year lease and buy-back clause to raise funds to pay an installment of a loan to Jack Petchey. It emerged on 27 December 2006 that the stadium had been sold to the British Virgin Islands-based Teak Trading Corporation 15 months before.\n\nIn summer 2006, the South Stand was updated and closed for the first few games of the 2006–07 season while work was completed. The refurbishment included boxing in the concrete columns and alcoves; overhaul of the kitchen concourse area, a mezzanine-level office area, modernisation of the corporate facilities above and a restaurant, Billy's Bar, named after former club captain Billy Bremner.\n\nPlans for development at Elland Road to include hotels, a shopping centre and health club were featured in the programme for the match against Huddersfield Town on 8 December 2007. There would be hotels on the site of the shop. Possible adjacent developments could include an arena, casino, police headquarters, cafés, bars and parking for 2,700 cars. On 27 October 2008, the club released plans for redevelopment behind the East Stand containing a 350-room hotel, a covered arcade with shops, bars, and restaurants; extended and improved facilities for business conferences and events, a megastore, office block and nightclub. On 6 November 2008, the city council announced it would not be building the proposed Leeds Arena on council owned land adjacent to the ground.\n\nOn 16 December 2009, the host cities and stadia to be used if England won the right to host the 2018 World Cup were revealed. Leeds was chosen and had the bid have been successful the John Charles and Don Revie stands would have been rebuilt, leading to increased capacity of over 50,000 however this never happened due to England not hosting the 2018 World Cup.\n\nOn 28 December 2009, chairman Ken Bates spoke about future plans to increase the capacity of the South Stand in the future by around 2–3,000. This would be achieved by removing the executive boxes and replacing them with seating, however, this work was never started due to Ken Bates selling the club in 2012.\n\nIn March 2011, the East Stand Development began phase one of a five-phase redevelopment project which included an extension to the East Stand Upper's main concourse along with the addition of 25 executive boxes and a modern upgrade to the external appearance of the stand; whilst this created extra corporate facilities and more room on the concourse, it in-turn reduced the East Stand Upper's capacity by around 2,500 seats, thus leaving the overall capacity of the ground to stand at just under 38,000 seats. An arcade, hotel and megastore were planned to be built as part of the four further phases, however these plans did not take place following the sale of the club to GFH Capital who then sold the club to Massimo Cellino.\nIn June 2017, new Leeds United owner Andrea Radrizzani bought the stadium back from Jacob Adler's company Teak Commercial Limited for £20 million, using his own company Greenfield Investment Pte Ltd. The first game taking back control of the stadium was against Oxford United in a pre-season friendly on Saturday 29 July 2017 in which Leeds United won 2–0.\n\nIn July 2017 the club announced a number of internal and external improvements were in the process of being made to Elland Road to improve the general appearance of the stadium. The improvements consisted of a partial new roof and cladding on the West Stand, banners on either side of the East Stand, South Stand and North East Corner of the ground featuring Leeds United legends past and present. In addition, the inside of the West Stand, dressing rooms and hospitality suites all underwent cosmetic improvement.\n\nCapacity: 7,000 (including North-East and North-West corners)\n\nThe Revie Stand is at the north end of the ground. It was previously known as the Gelderd End or Kop and was originally a standing terrace, It was renamed in 1994 in honour of the club's most successful manager and former player, Don Revie. The Revie Stand was officially opened in October by the club's president, George Lascelles, 7th Earl of Harewood and Mrs E. Revie, the widow of Don Revie. The design has 7,000 seats as stipulated by the Taylor Report, making Elland Road an all-seater stadium. There is a \"ground control box\" in the north-west corner which is the most advanced in Europe. Videos and photographs taken of everyone entering the ground are monitored and security operations are synchronised. Images and video footage are obtained by the security cameras located around the ground.\n\nCapacity: 14,900\n\nThe East Stand is the most recently constructed stand in the stadium. The two-tiered structure was built in the 1992–93 season to replace the Lowfields stand and was opened in the 1993–94 season at a cost of £5.5 million. On completion, it was the largest cantilever stand in the world, holding 10,000 spectators in the lower tier and a further 7,000 in the upper tier. The family area was moved from the South Stand and originally spanned the full lower tier; however, this was altered by Ken Bates and there are now two sections, one at either end of the lower tier for club members and season ticket holders attending matches with children. Sandwiched in between are 25 executive boxes and a large concourse with merchandise outlets, food shops, betting booths and a restaurant. Due to the redevelopment, the capacity of the East Stand was reduced and the words Leeds United AFC were taken off the seats.\n\nCapacity: 5,000 (including South-East and South-West corners)\n\nThe South Stand was built in 1974 at a cost of £500,000 to replace the Scratching Shed, which had been there since the 1920s. It comprises two small tiers intersected with a row of 32 executive boxes and an executive restaurant. There are a few seats in the South-West Corner, and a large video screen for the 2009–10 season. The South-East Corner seats 1,710 fans and was used to house the away fans until they were moved to the West Stand. In summer 2006, the stand was redeveloped and closed for the first few games of the 2006–07 season. The refurbishment included boxing in the concrete columns and alcoves to give the stand a more modern exterior; an overhaul of the kitchen concourse area; a mezzanine-level office area; a total modernisation of the corporate facilities above and a restaurant called Billy's Bar, named after former captain Billy Bremner. There is a statue in honour of Bremner at the south-east corner of the stadium erected in 1998, after his death on 7 December 1997. The club's superstore is nearby.\n\nCapacity: 11,000\n\nThe John Charles Stand is on the west side of the pitch and was known as the West Stand until the fans demanded a tribute to former player John Charles, following his death on 21 February 2004. It is currently the oldest two-tiered stand at Elland Road, having been built in 1957 after the previous stand burnt down, ironically forcing Charles' sale as the club needed the funds to pay for a new stand. The corporate seats are located here and there is a commentary gantry and walkway for TV personnel. The radio and press have facilities in this stand. The West Stand houses the tunnel and the directors' box, where home and away team directors view the match, along with the club doctor. There are many suites incorporated within the stand and a banqueting suite and conference centre are attached to the rear, having been opened in April 1992. As of September 2011 parts of the West Stand became the new home for away fans following a £300,000 refurbishment. Future plans would see the John Charles Stand redeveloped to hold a two-floored, three-tiered 3500 square metre site. This redevelopment of the West Stand would see a new upper tier introduced along with executive boxes as part of the ambitions of turning Elland Road into a stadium further capable of hosting world class matches and events; however it is now unlikely that any redevelopment of the west stand will take place due to change of club ownership who did not go ahead with the plans.\n\nThe pitch measures approximately long by wide, with run-off space on each side. There is an under-soil heating system installed beneath the surface, consisting of of piping. This, together with a good drainage system, means that only heavy fog, a blizzard, or flooding would force the club to cancel a match. There are wells sunk approximately beneath the West Stand and the North Stand and a pumping system is situated under the South Stand, meaning that the club can draw on its own supply of water, should the need arise. However, the first time the club used it, the pitch turned black as the water was too cold.\n\nA Statue for legendary Captain Billy Bremner was built outside the ground in 1999. A statue for Leeds' most successful manager Don Revie was also built in 2012, celebrating the 40th anniversary of the club winning the FA Cup.\n\nAs part of the renovation towards the Bremner statue to take place in the summer of the 2018, The following team was voted by the fans as 11 Legendary players (including Billy Bremner. They were voted to each have a stone engraved around the Billy Bremner statue outside Elland Road. They were described as '10 legend stones' in the area around the famous statue. Each stone will be engraved with the legends keys stats and achievements during their career's with Leeds United.\n\nIn August 2001, when Leeds were still a leading Premier League side, chairman Peter Ridsdale unveiled plans for the club to relocate to a 50,000-seat stadium in Skelton. The following month, the club's 33,250 season ticket holders were asked to vote on the proposed relocation. 87.6% of them voted in favour of relocation, but the plans were abandoned within two years following the onset of the club's financial crisis and decline in fortunes on the field.\n\nThe city of Leeds, on behalf of the Leeds City Region, submitted an application to be a Host City for the 2018 World Cup at Wembley on 26 November 2009. The club was represented by Peter Lorimer. This bid was successful on 16 December 2009.\n\nDue to the specific stadium requirements imposed by FIFA, it is likely that the redevelopment of the Kop (North Stand) will become two-tiered to approximately the same height as the current East Stand whilst the West Stand will be completely rebuilt with an envisaged final capacity of 51,240.\n\nThe redevelopment of the East Stand for which Leeds already have planning permission will play a significant part in providing the facilities required by FIFA to stage matches in the World Cup.\nDespite the English Football Association's unsuccessful bid to host the 2018 World Cup, the first phase of the East Stand redevelopment plan began in May 2011. This includes the adding of an executive tier sandwiched between the lower and upper tier of the East Stand which holds boxes such as the Gary Speed Suite, named after their legendary former player who died in November 2011. The East Stand façade was also given a makeover.\n\nPlans for the redevelopment of the ground had also included a hotel and casino. The casino plans were dealt a blow when Leeds City Council granted a provisional statement for a large casino licence to a rival scheme in the city centre Victoria Gate development and the hotel plans also seem unlikely to happen due to change in club ownership to GFH Capital and then to Massimo Cellino who did not go ahead with the plans.\n\nElland Road has hosted FA Cup semi-final matches as a neutral venue on nine occasions, the first being a tie between Barnsley and Everton on 26 March 1910 and the last on 9 April 1995 in a game between Everton and Tottenham Hotspur. Other FA Cup semi-finals to have taken place at Elland Road had included Arsenal v Hull City in 1930, Birmingham City v Sunderland in 1931, West Bromwich Albion v Bolton Wanderers in 1935, Charlton Athletic v Newcastle United in 1947, Newcastle United v Blackburn Rovers in 1952, Leicester City v Sheffield United in 1961 and West Ham United v Everton in 1980. In addition when Sheffield Wednesday faced Sheffield United in the 1993 FA Cup Semi-final the venue was originally planned to be Elland Road but was switched to Wembley Stadium following protests from both clubs and their supporters that the stadium was too small to host such a fixture, the risk of crowd trouble were the fixture to be played at Elland Road and due to London clubs Tottenham Hotspur and Arsenal having their semi-final at Wembley it was perceived the London clubs would receive an unfair advantage for the FA Cup final.\n\nThe ground has hosted three England international fixtures. On 8 June 1995, England drew 3–3 with Sweden. This was the first England home international played away from Wembley in 22 years, and the first time since 1946 that a new ground had hosted an England international game. The second game was a friendly match against Italy on 27 March 2002 while the new Wembley was being built. In addition, Elland Road would have been a potential host stadium for the football tournament at the 2000 Summer Olympics had Manchester won its bid to host the 2000 Summer Olympics as well as in the failed English bid to host the 2018 FIFA World Cup.\n\nWhen England were picked to host Euro 96, the most recent international tournament held in the country, Elland Road was selected as one of the eight venues. It staged three Group B matches, all of them involving Spain. The first two were 1–1 draws with Bulgaria on 9 June 1996 and France on 15 June 1996. The third was a 2–1 win over Romania on 18 June 1996.\n\nTwo of Leeds' West Yorkshire rivals have also used Elland Road as their temporary \"home\". The first club to benefit from the facilities was Huddersfield Town, when a fire struck their ground on 3 April 1950. Leeds offered its services and Huddersfield played the last two games of the 1949–50 season there before returning to Leeds Road the next season, following extensive work to revamp the burnt main stand. Bradford City used Elland Road for three matches after 11 May 1985 when a fire consumed a stand at Valley Parade during a match against Lincoln City. Two months after the Bradford City stadium fire, the 1966 World Cup Final teams from England and West Germany met in a rematch at Elland Road and raised £46,000 for the Fire Disaster Fund, with England winning the game, 6–4.\n\nWhen non-League team, Farsley Celtic, reached the first round of the FA Cup in 1974, the game was played at Elland Road. Farsley's opposition was Division Three side Tranmere Rovers and a crowd of 10,337 saw the League club win, 2–0. In 1990 Elland Road hosted the replay to the final of the FA Vase which Yeading F.C. won 1–0 against Bridlington Town A.F.C..\n\nFormer Manchester United manager Alex Ferguson said that Elland Road was \"the most intimidating venue in Europe\".\n\nHunslet rugby league club shared the stadium from the 1983–1995 after the ground at the Elland Road Greyhound Stadium in Beeston closed in 1982 (from 1980–1982 the club played at the Mount Pleasant ground in Batley). The 1982 Challenge Cup Final Replay between Widnes and Hull FC was played there. Rugby League was played at international level when a Great Britain v New Zealand test match was staged on 9 November 1985.\n\nThe stadium hosted the Tri-Nations Final in 2004, when a capacity crowd saw Australia beat Great Britain, 44–4, and again in 2005, in a match where 26,534 people watched New Zealand beat Australia 24–0. The 2009 Rugby League Four Nations Final between England and Australia was played there with a 16–46 win for Australia. On 19 November 2011 the 2011 Rugby League Four Nations Final between England and Australia was also played at the stadium resulting in an 8–30 win for Australia.\n\nLeeds Rhinos have played several matches at Elland Road. In the 1988 Yorkshire County Cup final, they beat Castleford Tigers 33–12. Due to the redevelopment of their traditional home of Headingley Stadium, the Rhinos will begin the 2018 Super League campaign with two league fixtures at Elland Road.\n\nThe record attendance for a rugby league match at Elland Road of 41,171 was set on May 19 1982 for the Challenge Cup Final Replay between Hull FC and Widnes. The record for a Rugby League international of 39,468 was set on 20 November 1994 for the deciding 3rd Test of the 1994 Ashes series between Great Britain and Australia.\n\nElland Road has also hosted 14 rugby league internationals. New Zealand's win over Australia in the 2005 Tri-Nations Final was Australia's first series or tournament loss since being defeated 2–0 by France at the end of the 1978 Kangaroo tour. A fifteenth international will be played at the stadium when England play New Zealand in the 2018 Baskerville Shield.\n\nElland Road hosted two of Leeds Rhinos' home Super League games during the redevelopment of Headingley Stadium.\n\nElland Road has also hosted four of Leeds Rhinos World Club Challenge matches. The results were as follows;\n<nowiki>*</nowiki> Melbourne Storm stripped of their 2010 WCC title in the wake of their salary cap breach.\n\nA rugby union match between the South Africa national rugby union team and the North of England rugby union team was played at Elland Road on 10 November 1992 which saw South Africa beat the North of England in front of an audience of 14,000. \n\nElland Road hosted two matches of the 2015 Rugby World Cup.\n\nAmerican football made a brief appearance at the ground when the Leeds Cougars of the British American Football League switched from their old ground at Bramley to play at Elland Road in May 1986. The following year they had to relocate because improvements to the stadium were required. The ground hosted a Gaelic football match between Dublin and Mayo, organised by the Yorkshire County Board of the Gaelic Athletic Association, in 1987.\n\nThere was a greyhound stadium to the south-west of Elland Road which opened on 16 July 1927. It was owned by the Greyhound Racing Association and they eventually sold it to the Totalisators and Greyhound Holdings (T.G.H) who were bought out by Ladbrokes in 1974.\n\nIn 1979, the track kennels were closed followed by the track itself on 1 March 1982.\n\nThere was also a speedway track known as Fullerton Park, which operated between the two world wars, attracted audiences in the range of 10,000–20,000 people. Fullerton Park also held greyhound racing from 1927 to 1938.\n\nElland Road was to host a Twenty20 cricket game on 31 July 2009. The game was to be contested between a Leeds United International XI and the Lashings World XI, however was cancelled when a suitable artificial pitch could not be found.\n\nOn 23 January, it was confirmed that Boxer Josh Warrington would fight IBF world champion Lee Selby (26-1) in his first world title fight on 19 May. On January 30, Elland Road was confirmed as the venue for the fight. Josh Warrington secured a split-decision victory over Selby by thoroughly outworking him for the majority of the twelve rounds to claim the title, and hand Selby his second career loss. The match featured ex Leeds United legend Lucas Radebe as part of Warrington's ringwalk and band Kaiser Chiefs also played songs at the event.\n\nOlder parts of the stadium were used in the 2009 film \"The Damned United\", which was centred on the 44-day reign of Brian Clough (played by Michael Sheen) at the club in 1974. Some shots of the 1974 Elland Road were shot at other locations to make the film look more in keeping with that era.\n\nElland Road was used as a substitute for the old Wembley Stadium for scenes in the 2010 film \"The King's Speech\", which was nominated for 12 Oscars, three of which were for its stars Colin Firth, Geoffrey Rush and Helena Bonham Carter.\n\nThe ground was also featured in a 1975 episode of BBC sitcom \"Porridge\", \"Happy Release\", in which prisoners Fletcher and Blanco gain revenge on a fellow prisoner, Norris, by giving him a fake treasure map before his release. The episode ends with Norris being arrested by the police after being found digging up a section of the Elland Road pitch in the middle of the night; the scenes were actually filmed at QPR's Loftus Road ground.\n\nIn 1985, 15,000 Jehovah's Witnesses held a three-day convention at Elland Road stadium.<“Integrity Keepers” District Conventions Programme> Elland Road hosted the annual Jehovah's Witness conventions until 2013 when they moved to the new First Direct Arena.\n\nThe nearest railway station is Cottingley, although fans travelling will be more likely to arrive at Leeds Station, which is approximately from the stadium. This is around a 35-minute walk, but taxis and buses run from outside the station to the ground. Visitors travelling by car can park in the ground's nearby car parks or make use of limited space in surrounding streets. On match days there are special bus services direct to and from the stadium, usually departing from Sovereign Street near Leeds Station as well as regular local bus services.\n\nLeeds City Council have raised plans for a railway station on the Wakefield Line serving Elland Road but there are no time frames since capacity issues on the Wakefield Line and funding for a new station would need addressing.\n\nIn Leeds City's brief history, attendances were among the worst in the league. The club competed in the league for 15 years, from the 1905–06 season until its expulsion in the 1919–20 season. The club was poorly financed throughout that period. Association football was a new concept in the area, which as traditionally a rugby league region. Nonetheless, the club were, until the 2009 relegation of Luton Town, the highest-placed team not currently in the league in the all-time average attendance figures for the Football League and Premier League. In total, 1,944,365 people attended Elland Road for all the matches played by the club, giving an average figure of 10,234.\n\nLeeds United was formed shortly after City's dissolution and entered the league in the 1920–21 season. By this time, football had established itself and in its first season, the average attendance was over 16,000. As of the 2005–06 season, 42,339,944 have attended all of Leeds United's matches combined, which gives an average of 25,689. This figure is the 10th highest average in England. The table gives a summary of the attendance figures of all Leeds United's league games in every season since the turn of the century.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4665249", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4665249", "title": "Estadio Regional de Antofagasta", "text": "Estadio Regional de Antofagasta\n\nEstadio Regional de Antofagasta, officially Estadio Bicentenario Calvo y Bascuñan de Antofagasta, (Spanish: ) is a sport facilities complex located in Antofagasta, Chile. The municipality of Antofagasta is the owner of the building and its used to host sports events such as cultural events and entertainment events. The complex is composed of the Main Stadium who is use made for most important events. The secondary fields, 1, 2, 3 and 4, are used to training sessions. The Field 5 is used to secondary events, with football pitch dimensions and counts with a Baseball field where are made the regional tournaments of this sport.\n\nIt is currently the home stadium of Football Team of the city, Club de Deportes Antofagasta, of Chilean Primera División. The Chile national football team plays for first time in this stadium on April 28, 2004, in a friendly match with the Perú. With an attendance of 32.000 spectators.\n\nThe Complex was built in 1964 by the Municipality of Antofagasta and supported by the Regional Stadium Construction Committee (Comité Pro Construcción Estadio Regional) the main stadium of this complex had an initial capacity of 35.000 spectators, after de renovation, In 2011 started the renovation of the stadium changed the maximum of capacity to 21,178 spectators since in 2013.\n\nIn February 2010, by requests from the community of Antofagasta that began in 2003, the mayor of the city called to the community to send names to name the stadium through popular votation to elect this. The winning the name was \"Estadio Calvo y Bascuñan\".\n\nThe stadium has been a venue for the 1987 FIFA World Youth Championship, 2013 Supercopa de Chile, Copa Sudamericana 2013 and Copa América 2015.\n\nA city stadium was considered in 1955, with the intention that it could function as host for the 1962 FIFA World Cup in Chile. The initiative was led by two professionals from Antofagasta, Miguel Bascuñán Pavez and Alberto Calvo Nieto, who formed the \"Pro-Construction Committee\" in 1958 with the aim of solidifying the project. It was decreed by law (13,080 from the Ministry of the Interior of Chile) that the lands then-occupied by the Club Hípico de Antofagasta (Riding Club of Antofagasta) be expropriated to the municipality for the construction of the stadium, stipulating the amount to be paid, the agreement being effective on January 31, 1959. The amount decreed was 300 million CLP.\n\nThe 1960 Valdivia earthquake caused severe damage to several stadiums in Chile, upsetting the calendar for the World Cup. On September 30, 1960, the Corporation of Development of Chile (Corfo) provided economic contributions toward the construction of the Antofagasta stadium, under the condition that work began before March 1, 1961. Mayor Santiago Gajardo handed over the land to the Santiago-based Wedeles, Balmaceda, Mathieu and Company, Ltd. on January 5, 1961. The work officially began on January 18. However, due to financial problems, construction was postponed and the committee responsible was dissolved. Work resumed on July 3, 1961 with the demolition of the riding club's facilities. Calvo and Bascuñan reformed the construction committee and secured government and private funding, though they'd lost the opportunity to host the 1962 World Cup. On July 9, 1962, Razmilic and Co. restarted the unfinished work.\n\nOn October 8, 1964, the stadium was inaugurated before President Jorge Alessandri, Mayor Juan Floreal Recabarren and his predecessor Santiago Gajardo. Trading markets in the city closed that day at noon, with a request that private companies enable their workers to attend the event. Approximately 32,000 people came. The stadium was then the second largest in the country. The match of the event was between Unión Bellavista (local team) and Club Deportivo Universidad Católica. On October 12, a game was played between the teams of the city of Asociación de Fútbol de Antofagasta and Chuquicamata, which was attended by approximately 16,000 spectators. The result of the match was 4–2 for Antofagasta, the coach of the team of Antofagasta was Luis Santibañez Diaz.\n\nOn July 7, 1965, the construction committee was dissolved and another association formed to complete the lighting of the stadium. Chile Exploration Company donated US$100,000 to finance this project.\n\nIn February 1967, a youth football championship was held, in which one of the finalists was the Iquique team.\n\nIn July 22, 1973 the highest ever attendance was recorded, when 32,663 people watched the Primera Division match between Antofagasta and Colo-Colo.\n\nIn October 1987, the stadium was a host for the 1987 FIFA World Youth Championship, where the national teams of West Germany, Bulgaria, United States and Saudi Arabia, all of Group D, played 6 games. The stadium also hosted the quarter-final match between West Germany and Scotland. The average audience attendance was 8,417. A large investment had to be made for the stadium to host the event, with improvements to field number 5, the stands and scoreboard.\n\nIn 1996, the six-lane athletic track was installed. On the same year. The first game registered by Club de Deportes Antofagasta Portuario, valid for national tournaments, exercising of local, was in the encounter between Club Lister Rossel de Linares and Portuario, beating to this first one by 2–1.\n\nIn 2001, an audit was carried out which established the embezzlement of funds and corruption of a public instrument by a municipal official. It was reported that Mayor Pedro Araya filed a federal court complaint regarding this event.\n\nOn September 20, 2013, the final of the National Children's Baseball tournament was played at the stadium's baseball field, in which Antofagasta and Iquique met.\n\nIn April 2014, a friendly match was proposed between the national teams of Chile and Peru, for which the mayor of Antofagasta promised to improve the state of the field. The manager of Peru's team decided not to train in the stadium, alluding to security problems and a need to practice without spectators. The match was held on April 28, resulting in a tie, with an attendance of 32,000.\n\nIn 2005, a friendly match was held between the teams of River Plate U-23 and the Chilean U-20 team, with the aim of preparing the national team for the World Cup in Holland.\n\nIn 2006, Club de Deportes Antofagasta (CDA) acquired 650 seats from Brazil, with an investment of 8,000,000 CLP, installed in the stadium's preferred sector, for the anniversary of the city and the return to Premiere A series football. In addition to these improvements, the Regional Intendant asked that the stadium be provided with a synthetic track, in order to improve athletic practices.\n\nThe remodeling of the athletic track increased the number of lanes from 6 to 8, using the synthetic material Repugol AF. It cost 816.212.000 CLP, financed by the Municipality of Antofagasta, the regional council and Chiledeportes (a national program to promote sport activities). The CDA team had to move to other venues during the construction.\n\nChiledeportes promised a US$3 million investment to five Chilean stadiums, including that of Antofagasta, for the 2008 FIFA U-20 Women's World Cup. Former Secretary General of CONCACAF (Confederation of North, Central American and Caribbean Association Football), Chuck Blazer, inspected the stadium and found that it was not fit to host matches of the competition. He recommended improvements to be made within 60 days to meet FIFA requirements. The bathrooms were closed by the Ministry of Health of Antofagasta due to the low quality of hygiene.\n\nOn January 22, 2009, the stadium was among 15 venues chosen for a remodeling in the second phase of the national program Red de Estadios Bicentenario (Bicentennial Stadium Network) and was installed the synthetic grass on the field 5. The opening match for this setting was between Club de Deportes Antofagasta and Municipal Mejillones on U-15 category, the result of the match was 1-0, won Antofagasta. Minera Escondida, the first private company to invest in the program, committed US$8.8 million for the remodeling of the stadium. This was added to contributions of the regional government, Chiledeportes and Ministry of Public Works. The remodel would include a modern electronic scoreboard, perimeter lighting, dressing rooms, massage rooms, a preparatory area for referees, and parking and recreation areas.\nAn agreement between Minera Escondida and the respective public organizations was to open bidding in August, with works to begin in November 2010.\n\nFormer mayor Pedro Araya and a group from the sports community sought to rename the stadium \"Calvo Bascuñan\", in tribute to the promoters of its original construction. The municipality opened a process to consider this and other suggestions from the citizens. On February 13, 2010, the evaluation committee reported that the stadium would be renamed Calvo y Bascuñan (Calvo and Bascuñan).\n\nThe Municipal Council processed the remodeling of the stadium in May 2010, by means of an extraordinary section needed to regularize the agreement – as Minera Escondida was a private entity and the project was a public work. It was assigned to the municipality through the Corporación Municipal de Deportes.\n\nDue to the 2010 Chile earthquake which occurred on February 27, the government reallocated the committed money for the stadium to the disaster area, to the annoyance of former-mayor Marcela Hernando. On June 2, the former mayor received a commitment from the National Sports Institute, which would deliver 62.5% of their promised funding in 2011 and 32.5% in 2012. The former Secretary of Sports, Gabriel Ruiz-table, visited the stadium with the mayor, assuring that there would be resources for the remodeling so that the venue could be used for other events in addition to football matches.\n\nBidding proposals were opened on June 7, 2010. The only presentation was from the company Salfa SA, which proposed either following the established model or its own draft, either of which exceeded the established budget for the project. On June 21, the economic proposal was opened, and a second call for tenders was made on November 20. In October the Municipality of Antofagasta asked for support from the Chilean National Football Association (ANFP) with the purpose of getting more financial resources to make the remodelation. This action results in an agreement between the association and the municipality. Interest was expressed by 21 companies, and at that time it was expected that work could begin in May 2012.\n\nIn 2011, the opening for technical proposals was presented. It was stipulated that the opening period would be in July. The winning proposal was from Valle & Cornejo Arquitectos, with contributions of L2C and architect Nicolás Lipthay. On July 28, the works were contracted to the construction company Navarrate Díaz Cumsille and Ingeniería y Construcciones Serinco Ltd., and the main coliseum was closed for a projected term of 360 days.\n\nIn February 2011, the first Chile national American football team play an exhibition match against a local team called Gladiadores del Desierto, this match was on the 5° Field of the stadium, the result was 26-18, the winner was the Chile national team.\n\nIn July 2011, was begun makes the removal of tons of debris to begin the realization of the major works to renovate the stadium.\n\nIn December 2011, the construction suffered a delay of two months due to problems with the foundations of roof supports. There were additional delays in October 2012 regarding the seating.\n\nIn December 2012, Antofagasta was officially declared as one of the cities to host the 2015 Copa América.\n\nOn March 20, 2013, a private inauguration ceremony was held. Former-president Sebastián Piñera cut the tape as part of the protocol. The public ceremony began with a performance of the city's philharmonic orchestra, followed by a match between CDA and América de Cali. The musical group Garras de Amor performed prior to the party of Colo-Colo and Universidad Católica. There was public criticism for the high price of the tickets to the opening party, and a group of councilors argued that the inaugurations of public places should be free as special moments for the city. The inauguration was concluded by the percussion of the team of América de Cali, which was delayed in arriving to the city.\n\nIn November 2014, the stadium was officially declared a host for the Copa America 2015 tournament. Through a draw, Jamaica, Paraguay and Uruguay would compete in the stadium. In December the director of the event confirmed to Antofagasta that its stadium was well-liked by the Jamaican National Team, which was competing in the Copa America for the first time.\n\nOn August 7, 2014, work began to meet the Confederación Sudamericana de Fútbol's (CONMEBOL) requirements for the Copa America 2015. The company MAC won the bidding for $4,997,657,850 CLP, delivered by the Fondo Nacional de Desarrollo Regional (Financial instrument) to the municipality, with a term of 5 months. On January 27, eight lighting towers and generators were installed for night events on additional courts.\n\nOn may 29 of 1987 was the draw of the 1987 FIFA World Youth Championship, In live broadcast from the Hotel Sheraton on Santiago de Chile, in this draw was assigned the teams to the groups, Antofagasta was host of the Group D, conformed with the followings teams: Bulgaria, Saudi Arabia, United States and West Germany.\n\nThe first match of the Group was United States against Bulgaria on October 11, both teams used the 4-4-2 system, the result of the match was 0-1 in favor of Bulgaria team, scored by Dimitar Trendafilov on 26 min of the match. The referee was Jean-Fidele Diramba.\n\nIn the Groups phase of the tournament, the stadium hosted a total of 50.500 spectators, with an average of 8.400. The first day was hosted of 26.000 spectators (matches 4 and 8). The second day hosted 13.000 spectators (Matches 12 and 16). The third day the number of spectators on the matches 20 and 24 was of 11.500 spectators. On Quarter final the stadium was hosted by 4.000 spectators been the last of the 4 venues in this phase.\n\nIn 2012, the Municipality of Antofagasta and various institutions announced the nomination of the stadium to be a venue of the events Copa América and Football Youth World Cup in 2015. To meet the required standards, the secondary fields were renovated and seeded with natural grass. Proximity of the airport and medical services were also considered in its selection.\n\nIn 2014, CONMEBOL officially chose Antofagasta as one of the eight venues to host the Copa America 2015. Mayor Karen Rojo was charged with improving facilities by the end of the year.\n\nThe event schedule was confirmed in 2014. Chosen by draw, the stadium hosted Jamaica vs. Uruguay on June 13 and Jamaica vs. Paraguay on June 16. These were Jamaica's first appearances in the Copa América.\n\nDespite being the third-largest of the eight venues the stadium received the lowest attendances of the competition, with 8,653 and 6,009 spectators. Some locals said that the matches which were hosted in Antofagasta were the least attractive of the tournament.\n\nIn July 2005, was organizated the Ninth handicapped and blind sportsmans International Tournament by the Crippled Club of Antofagasta, Nueva Esperanza, the main competitions was made on track field and the grass of the main field. Perú, Bolivia and Chile was the countries who participated in the tournament. With the support of the national army and the municipality of the city. The first places of the tournament in each categories was the following:\n\nMen\n\nWomen\n\nIn 2003, the president of the Ciclism association of Antofagasta, René Araya, tried to approach to the Municipality of the city to give a name to the stadium.\n\nIn July 2006, the former regional delegate of Antofagasta, Manuel Rojas, presented a document to the Municality of Antofagasta, with a proposal to name the stadium \"Calvo y Bascuñan\", in honor to the main leaders of Comité Pro Construcción Estadio, whom this initiative was possible to build this on 1964.\n\nThe former mayor of the city, Daniel Adario, suggested to give a name to the stadium by suffrage. The former President of football association of Chile (ANFP), Harold Mayne-Nicholls, supported the proposal to name the stadium Calvo y Bascuñan.\n\nIn October 2007, the councilmen of the municipality on a unanimous decision, approved the project to give to the stadium a name.\n\nOn 2009, the community of Antofagasta submitted the names to give a name to the stadium through a contest made by the Municipality of the city through a form on web site of this until November 9 of the same year. The names were the following; “Pedro Reyes”, “Guillermo Martin”, “Luis Santibañez”, \"Francisco 'Chamaco' Valdés\", “Calvo-Bascuñán”, “Sol del Norte”, “Héroes del Pacífico”, “Coloso”, “Riqueza del Desierto”, “Coliseo 14 de Febrero” y “La Portada”.\n\nIn February 13, 2010, the contest to give a name to the stadium finished and the winner proposed name was Calvo y Bascuñan.\n\nThe stadium's remodel was by architectural company Valle & Cornejo with the collaboration of the architects Nicolás Lipthay, Juan Pablo Duarte, Catalina Donzé, Oscar Conteras and María José Yurisic. The complete area is . The provider was Serge Ferrari. Landscape architecture was by the company Rencoret & Rüttimann Arquitectura del paisaje (Cecilia Rencoret, Carla Rütimann).\n\nThe architects of the remodel describe their work as a search for respect for the urban landmark while seeking a way to unify a design completed by different construction companies. Access of the stadium are organizated from the two squares, organizing circulation through a footbridge.\n\nThe architectural operation was generated from the desire to make a building with a unique style, through a simple, clean and fancy gesture across the stadium, adding color to the urban environment. The public areas of the enclosure allowed for improved circulation of people.\n\nIn 2012, two high-definition LED screens were installed, costing 186,830 million CLP. Set in the south and north area of the stadium, the screens measure .\n\nBetween 2014 and 2015, 30 Neighbors of Antofagasta participated in a project to create a mosaic made with rocks, ceramics and seashells in the ends of the stadium walls, for the Copa América 2015.\n\nIn 2015, lighting was installed on the roof of Tribuna Pacífico, certified by Philips staff of Chile. The project aimed to achieve a lighting quality of 1200 lux.\n\nIn the same year, grass was planted in the main field of the stadium. Parques Johnson was the company which completed the work, choosing a mixture of Ryegrass and Bermuda for traction and softness. The second field was finished in June 2015, made of a natural grass, measuring to FIFA standards of , with a 24-person dressing room, sanitary facilities, nursing room, eight lighting towers, a 40-person stand and parking facilities.\n\nIn June 2015, 270 desks for the press were installed in the stadium, with Wi-fi and LAN access. They were installed on Tribuna Pacifico, in time for Copa America 2015. The monetary investment was 492 million CLP. Also included were six additional press stands.\n\nThe front of the stadium was designed to endure the climate and urban environment. The materials were chosen to allow easy maintenance. The building has reinforced concrete supports; the concrete terminations have a flat style, and the front slab made with phenolic resin. There is an illumination system in the Area Pacifico.\n\nThe seats of the stadium are solid, ergonomic and retractable, with colors allusive to the CDA theme. The seats are folding with armrests and cup holders, fulfilling FIFA standards. The distribution of the seats is to the VIP and very VIP area (36), Tribuna Pacifico (9,437), Tribuna Andes (5,859), north gallery (2,565) and south gallery (3,281).\n\nTransAntofagasta is the main public transport service to reach the stadium this by public bus service, the following lines of this public transport arrives to the stadium:\n\nNorth to South:\n\n\nSouth to North\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "33973505", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33973505", "title": "Estavana Polman", "text": "Estavana Polman\n\nEstavana Polman (born 5 August 1992) is a Dutch handball player who plays for Team Esbjerg and the Dutch national team.\n\nShe represented the Netherlands in younger age categories as well and collected the silver medal at the 2011 Women's 19 European Handball Championship. In addition, she was voted into the all-star team of the tournament in playmaker position.\n\nAs of August 2016, she is in a relationship with Dutch footballer Rafael van der Vaart.\n\nOn 27 December 2016, they announced that they are expecting a child.\n\nOn 24 June 2017, she gave birth to a 3 kg baby girl, Jesslynn.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "52442001", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52442001", "title": "FC Nagarjo", "text": "FC Nagarjo\n\nFutebol Clube Nagarjo, commonly known as Nagarjo is an East Timorese football club based in Dili. The team plays in the Liga Futebol Amadora. \n\n\n"}
{"id": "12488846", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12488846", "title": "Fantasy Sports Trade Association", "text": "Fantasy Sports Trade Association\n\nThe Fantasy Sports Trade Association (FSTA) is a Madison, Wisconsin-based trade group representing the fantasy sports industry, listing over 200 member companies on its web site as of January 2017. Members range from small startups to large media corporations. FSTA was founded in 1998 and provides demographic data, annual conferences and collective action including lobbying to support the growth of fantasy sports leagues.\n\nIn 1997, CDM Fantasy Sports, a St. Louis, MO-based fantasy sports company invited competitors Sportsline, Prime Sports Interactive, Sports Buff Fantasy Sports, and Sporting News to St. Louis to discuss pending legislation that could severely limit the growth of the fantasy sports industry. Over the next year, the companies communicated without an official organization and tracked the legislation. In 1998, during a fantasy sports conference in Las Vegas hosted by Fantasy Insights, a meeting was organized to again discuss pending legislation and several other topics related to the industry. The representatives from CDM, Fantasy Insights, EA Sports, The Sporting News, and USFANS decided that it was time to create an official organization to help promote fantasy sports, and the Fantasy Sports Trade Association was born. Carl Foster was president from 1999 to 2002. Greg Ambrosius was president from 2003 to 2006. Jeff Thomas was the president from 2006-2008. Paul Charchian took the helm in 2009, and remains the current president.\n\nIt's estimated by the Fantasy Sports Trade Association that over 57 million people in the U.S. and Canada played fantasy sports in 2015. Participation has grown over the years, though USA participation for 2015 is consistent with the past few readings. However, participation is up in Canada mostly due to hockey.\n\nA study conducted by the FSTA in 2016 showed 57.4 million people in the U.S. with the 2011 FSTA Study showing 35.9 million people in Canada played fantasy sports. Participation has grown over 60 percent the past four years with 20 percent of males in the U.S. playing fantasy sports. That figure is up significantly from a 2006 FSTA study that estimated 19.4 million people in the U.S. and Canada played fantasy sports and 34.5 million people ever played fantasy sports. A 2006 study showed 22 percent of U.S. adult males 18 to 49 years old, with Internet access, play fantasy sports. Fantasy sports is estimated to have a $3–$4 billion annual economic impact across the sports industry.\n\nThe FSTA was the first organization to compile demographic surveys of the fantasy sports market starting in 1999. The first survey showed 29.6 million people age 18 and older play fantasy games, but that figure was reduced in later years when it was determined the survey also included people who play NCAA bracket pools, which are not the same as fantasy sports where individual players are picked.\n\nThe FSTA holds two annual conferences each year - a summer conference, and a winter conference.\n\nThe FSTA has been at the forefront of the tension that has existed between fantasy sports companies and professional leagues and players associations over the rights to player profiles and statistics. The issue came to a head with the lawsuit of Major League Baseball Advanced Media (MLBAM), MLB's Internet wing, vs. St. Louis-based CBC Distribution and Marketing Inc., the parent company of CDM Sports. When CBC was denied a new licensing agreement with MLBAM (they had acquired the rights from the baseball players' association) for its fantasy baseball game, CBC filed suit.\n\nThe FSTA filed a friend of the court brief in support of CBC arguing that intellectual property laws and so-called \"right of publicity\" laws do not apply to the statistics used in fantasy sports. The FSTA also argued that if MLBAM won the lawsuit it would have a dramatic impact on the industry, which was largely ignored by the major sports leagues for years while a number of smaller entrepreneurs grew it into a multi-billion dollar industry, and a ruling could allow the MLBAM to have a monopoly over the industry.\n\n\"This will be a defining moment in the fantasy sports industry,\" said Charlie Wiegert, executive vice president of CBC. \"The other leagues are all watching this case. If MLB prevailed, it just would have been a matter of time before they followed up. Their player unions are just waiting for the opportunity.\"\n\nCBC won the lawsuit as U.S. District Court Judge Mary Ann Medler ruled that statistics are part of the public domain and can be used at no cost by all fantasy companies. \"The names and playing records of major-league baseball players as used in CBC's fantasy games are not copyrightable,\" Medler wrote. \"Therefore, federal copyright law does not pre-empt the players' claimed right of publicity.\"\n\nThe 8th Circuit Court of Appeals upheld the decision in October 2007. \"It would be strange law that a person would not have a First Amendment right to use information that is available to everyone,\" a three-judge panel said in its ruling.\n\nThe Fantasy Sports Trade Association is managed by an elected Board of Directors that hosts elections each year in February. \n\nThe board results are published here: https://fsta.org/about/fsta-board-of-directors/ | Current directors include:\nBeginning in 2000, the FSTA has honored past members and contributors to fantasy sports with induction into its Hall of Fame.\n\nAs of 2014, 17 men have been inducted into the FSTA Hall of Fame. They are:\n"}
{"id": "10137842", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10137842", "title": "Fédérale 3", "text": "Fédérale 3\n\nFédérale 3 is the fifth division of rugby union in France. The competition involves 226 clubs in 21 pools of 8, and winners can progress up into higher division of competition. The competition above Fédérale 3 is Fédérale 2 and above that, Fédérale 1. Above the Fédérale divisions are the two professional leagues, Rugby Pro D2 and the highest, the Top 14.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "5125206", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5125206", "title": "Iraq Football Association", "text": "Iraq Football Association\n\nThe Iraq Football Association () is the governing body of football in Iraq, controlling the Iraqi national team and the Iraq Super League. The Iraqi Football Association was founded in 1948 and has been a member of FIFA since 1950, the Asian Football Confederation since 1970, and the Sub-confederation regional body West Asian Football Federation since 2000. Iraq also is part of the Union of Arab Football Associations and has been a member since 1974. The Iraqi team is commonly known as \"Usood Al-Rafidain\" (), which literally meaning \"Lions of Mesopotamia\".\n\nThe Iraqi Football Association (Ittihad Al-Iraqi Le-Korat Al-Kadem) was formed on October 8, 1948 and was the third sports union to be founded in Iraq after the Track and Field Athletics and the Basketball Federations. The two unions took part at the 1948 Olympic Games in London, July 29 – August 14 – however the Iraqi FA had not been founded, so no football team took part in the Olympics. It was during the Olympics that the idea of an Iraq Football Association was put forward. During the 1948 London Olympic Games, Iraq's basketball team lost every game by an average of 104 points per game. They scored an average of 23.5 points per game. The team included Iraq’s first ever-national football captain Wadud Khalil and another member of Iraq’s first ever-national squad in 1951, the outside right Salih Faraj. \n\nThe first Iraqi FA administration was headed by President Obaid Abdullah Al-Mudhayfi and Saadi Jassim as general secretary, with its headquarters in the Sheikh Omar district in Baghdad. The IFA was an association of 14 teams from all over Iraq, they included the Royal Olympic Club (‘Nadi Al-Malikiya Al-Olympiya’), Royal Guards (‘Haris Al-Maliki’), Royal Air Force (‘Al-Quwa Al-Jawiya Al-Malikiya’), Police College (‘Kuliya Al-Shurta’), Kuliya Al-Askariya (‘Military College’), Dar Al-Mualameen Alaliya (‘Highest Teacher’s House’), Casual’s Club, Al-Marouf Al-Tarbiya (‘Physical Education’), Kuliya Al-Hakok (‘College of Law’), Quwa Al-Siyara (‘Armoured Cars’) from the capital Baghdad and four other teams Nadi Al-Minaa Al-Basri (Basra Port Club), Sharakat Al-Naft Al-Basra (Basra Petroleum Company) from Basra and branches in the provinces of Mosul and Kirkuk. \n\nThe Iraqi youth national teams have been ejected from tournaments for fielding over-age players. In 1989, Iraq was banned for using over-age players in the under-20 world championships in Saudi Arabia. That ban was extended when Iraq invaded Kuwait in August 1990.\n\nThe following is a list of presidents of Iraq Football Association (IFA).\n\n"}
{"id": "35824927", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35824927", "title": "Japan Breeding farms' Cup Classic", "text": "Japan Breeding farms' Cup Classic\n\nJapan Breeding farms' Cup Classic (ジャパンブリーディングファームズカップクラシック) is an annual race that is usually held on November 3, the national holiday Culture Day. This race and the JBC sprint were started in 2001, following American the Breeders' Cup, though the JBC has only two category race. In 2011, JBC Lady’s Classic was added for fillies and mares.\n\nThe track is changed yearly like the American Breeders' Cup, so that the distances may differ. The distance was 2,000 meters from 2001 to 2004, in 2007 and 2011; 1,900 meters in 2005 and 2009; 2,100 meters in 2006; 1,870 meters in 2008; and 1800 meters in 2010. In both 2012 and the following year, it will be 2,100 meters.\n\nThis is the highest-prized race in National Association of Racing (NAR), and the third highest-prized dirt event in Japan, following Champions Cup and February Stakes both organized by Japan Racing Association(JRA). Until 2011, the winner’s prize was one hundred million yen. Although its prize money is high, this race is regarded as preparation for Champions Cup.\n\nUntil year 2017, all winners were come from the JRA instead of organizer NAR.\n"}
{"id": "36353570", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36353570", "title": "Junta Vecinal Mariscal Santa Cruz", "text": "Junta Vecinal Mariscal Santa Cruz\n\nJunta Vecinal Mariscal Santa Cruz is a Bolivian football team playing at Torneo Nacional Interprovincial. It is based in El Alto. Their home stadium is Estadio Los Andes. The team played in the Liga Nacional B in 2011–12 season and finish in 8th.\n\n"}
{"id": "54733061", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54733061", "title": "KK Profikolor", "text": "KK Profikolor\n\nKošarkaški klub Profikolor (), commonly referred to as KK Profikolor or KK Profi Kolor, was a men's professional basketball club based in Banatsko Novo Selo, near Pančevo, Serbia, FR Yugoslavia.\n\nThe most successful years was from 1992 to 1994 when the club played YUBA League. The club placed 5th in 1992–93 season, and 4th out of 12 teams in 1993–94 season.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "58355851", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58355851", "title": "Kettlebell swing", "text": "Kettlebell swing\n\nKettlebell swing (AKA \"Russian swing, double-arm swing, or conventional kettlebell swing\") is a basic ballistic exercise used to train the posterior chain in a manner similar to broad jumping. It involves moving the bell in a pendulum motion from between the knees to anywhere between eye level to fully overhead and can be performed either two-handed or using one hand. There are three versions of kettlebell swing: Russian Swing, American Swing and Sport Style Swing. \n\nThe kettlebell is swung from just below the groin to somewhere between the upper abdomen and shoulders, with arms straight or slightly bent, the degree of flexion depends on the trajectory of the kettlebell. The key to a good kettlebell swing is effectively thrusting the hips, not bending too much at the knees and sending the weight forwards, as opposed to squatting the weight up, or lifting up with the arms. This requires an intense contraction of the gluteal, abdominal and latissimus muscles. The swing can also be performed with a release and catch of the kettlebell, which helps train the proper swing pattern where the arms aren't pulling up at the top. This can be done with two hands switching to a supinated catch. The one-arm swing presents a significant anti-twisting challenge, and can be used with an alternating catch switching between arms. Further variations include the walking swing taking a step forward at the apex of each swing, the outside swing where the kettlebell swings outside the leg, and the kneeling swing, swinging between the legs in a one-leg half-kneeling position. \n\nThere is controversy within the kettlebell world about whether a swing can only be performed with a hip hinge, and not with a squat. Within the kettlebell sport world, employing knee flexion during the swing is more common.\nThere are two types of kettlebell swings: \n\n\n\nThere are many variations of the kettlebell swing, some are, but not limited to:\n\n\nWithin those variations there are plenty more variations, some are, but not limited to:\n\n\nKettlebell swing benefits include:\n\n"}
{"id": "1811063", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1811063", "title": "Longue paume", "text": "Longue paume\n\nLongue paume, or \"jeu de longue paume\", is an outdoor version of jeu de paume, an ancestor of modern lawn tennis. Hundreds of years ago it was quite popular, particularly in France. It is a game of gain-ground as Balle à la main\n\nIt was part of the Paris 1900 Summer Olympics, but its medal status is disputed. Today, the sport is most played in the region of Picardy. The governing body of the sport is the \"Fédération Française de Longue Paume\", with its headquarters in Amiens.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1793632", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1793632", "title": "Luxembourg at the 1988 Summer Olympics", "text": "Luxembourg at the 1988 Summer Olympics\n\nLuxembourg competed at the 1988 Summer Olympics in Seoul, Korea.\n\nIn its fourth appearance in Olympic archery, Luxembourg was represented by one woman.\n\nWomen's Individual Competition:\nMen's Marathon\nMen's 20 km Walk\nWomen's Marathon\nMen's 50m Freestyle\nMen's 100m Freestyle\nMen's 200m Freestyle\n\n<br>\nWomen's 100m Breaststroke\n\nWomen's 200m Breaststroke\n"}
{"id": "27711055", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27711055", "title": "National Trail Raceway", "text": "National Trail Raceway\n\nNational Trail Raceway is a quarter-mile dragstrip located between Hebron and Kirkersville, Ohio, USA, off of U.S. Route 40. The race track is located about 30 minutes east of Columbus, Ohio. It is known to local residents as 'National Trails'.\n\nClark Rader, Sr., along with sons Ben and Clark, Jr., broke ground on the facility in 1963, and completed the construction in 1964. At the time, United States Route 40 was known as the National Road and/or the National Trail, which is why they called it National Trail Raceway. It was the fifth largest racing facility of its kind in the United States at the time.\n\nThe NHRA's national event known as the Springnationals bounced around among three different sites from 1965-1971. Wally Parks, founder and head of the NHRA at the time, decided to move the Springnationals to National Trail Raceway in 1972, based on the popularity of drag racing in central Ohio. According to National Trail Raceway's website, \"...the race drew more than 40,000 spectators and 600 cars. On both Saturday and Sunday, the (admittance) gates had to be closed while cars were still sitting on Route 40 waiting to get in to the event as the grounds were already full.\"\n\nIn 1976, Shirley Muldowney became the first female to ever win a national event in the Top Fuel Dragster category. In 1982, the first ever all-female professional final took place between Shirley and Lucille Lee.\n\nFor most of the Springnationals' history, the event was run in the month of June, often on or around Fathers Day weekend. But, due to Ohio's sometimes unpredictable weather, some feel this is why the performances of the race cars were usually not as quick or as fast as at other NHRA national events. The unpredictable weather often made for unpredictable track conditions. Thus, a number of crew chiefs would often have trouble knowing how to properly tune and prepare the race cars to run well. This led to many upsets during eliminations. In fact, several drivers scored their first, and sometimes only, national event win during the Springnationals at National Trail.\n\nBecause the track was built between two roads, United States Route 40 and Refugee Road, National Trail Raceway was known to have one of the shortest (post-finish line) shut down areas of any event on the NHRA national event schedule. In the early 1980s, the NHRA and National Trail Raceway used catch-nets on Springnationals weekends to help stop some race cars that couldn't slow down enough to safely turn off the end of the race track. But, in 1984, Top Fuel Dragster driver Doug Kerhulas had a problem stopping his race car by the end of the shut down area and drove his car into the catch-net, as drivers were instructed to do. Though the catch-nets did stop his race car from going onto Refugee Road, the sudden stop caused by the nets also nearly killed him. So, in 1986, the nets were replaced by sand pits. Ironically, Funny Car racer Gary Phillips couldn’t slow down in time and drove his car into the sand pits. But he was carrying so much speed, his car still went through the sand pits, across Refugee Road, and into farmer Herb White's front yard. The race car did not hit any vehicles and was able to miss the farmer's house. However, this was the only time the sand/gravel traps were not able to stop a vehicle, so NTR continued to use them any time the NHRA was in town.\n\nThe NHRA and National Trail Raceway eventually worked out a deal with the Ohio State Highway Patrol to close down that area of Refugee Road during Springnationals weekends. This allowed National Trail to connect the end of the shut down area to Refugee Road, giving drivers a little more room, if needed, to stop their race cars safely. And they worked out a deal with Herb White to move the sand pit to the side of his front yard, just in case.\n\nThe NHRA purchased the track from the Rader family in 1996. A first offer was refused, but when the NHRA threatened to pull the Springnationals from the track, a deal was reached. National Trail became one of the few tracks in the country to be owned directly by the NHRA. Shortly thereafter, Pontiac began sponsoring the national event held at NTR, and changed the name to the Pontiac Excitement Nationals and eventually the Pontiac Performance Nationals. The NHRA event was then moved from mid-June to mid-May. In 2006, possibly due to cooler weather conditions and better track conditions, Top Fuel driver Tony Schumacher set a new NHRA national speed record of 336.15 mph. Following the 2006 NHRA season, National Trail Raceway ceased hosting a national event and the Pontiac Performance NHRA Nationals was moved 100 miles north to Summit Motorsports Park in Norwalk, Ohio.\n\nFor many years, this event was one of the more prestigious national events on the NHRA calendar. In the 1970s, Diamond P Sports produced NHRA's syndicated television coverage of select events, and 'the Springs' was one of those events. In the 1980s, it was annually televised on either TNN or ESPN, and for much of the '90s it was broadcast nationally on either NBC on ABC.\n\nAs of 2010, the NHRA still owns the facility. The NHRA Lucas Oil Drag Racing Series and the NMRA hold events at NTR. NTR also holds events such as the Buick Nationals, the Mopar Nationals, and the Night of Thunder, which features jet-cars and wheelstanders.\n\nNTR has also hosted the NHRA National Hot Rod Reunion and Super Chevy Shows' in the past.\n\nOn November 5, 2011 the NTR held the annual Ohio High School Athletic Association state cross country running championships. The meet was formerly held at the Scioto Downs racetrack, but moved to NTR due to the introduction of slot machine gaming at Scioto Downs.\n\nNational Trail Raceway is also a member track of the Professional Drag Racers Association (PDRA), a regional sanctioning body of professional 1/8 mile (0.201 km) outlaw door-slammer drag racing.\n\n"}
{"id": "23590738", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23590738", "title": "Netuar", "text": "Netuar\n\nNetuar was a South African racing car constructor, which competed in 22 non-World Championship Formula One races.\n\nNetuar was founded by Rauten Hartman in 1961. The name Netuar is \"Rauten\" spelled backwards.\nThey raced from 1961 to 1964 and again in 1966 and 1967. Their first race was the 1961 Rand Grand Prix,\nand their last was the 1967 Pat Fairfield Trophy. Their best result was 5th in the 1966 Easter Grand Prix.\nThe driver for all the races was Rauten Hartman. They used Peugeot engines in all races except the 1967 races,\nwhen they used Alfa Romeo engines.\n\n"}
{"id": "35096433", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35096433", "title": "New Najaf Stadium", "text": "New Najaf Stadium\n\nNew Najaf Stadium () is a multi-purpose stadium in Najaf, Iraq. The stadium has a capacity of 30,000 spectators and will cost $83.75 million.\n"}
{"id": "4425338", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4425338", "title": "Panama at the 1992 Summer Olympics", "text": "Panama at the 1992 Summer Olympics\n\nPanama competed at the 1992 Summer Olympics in Barcelona, Spain.\n\nMen's 100m metres\n\nMen's 100m Breaststroke\n\nMen's 200m Breaststroke\n\nMen's 200m Individual Medley\n\n\n"}
{"id": "7875883", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7875883", "title": "Portuguese motorcycle Grand Prix", "text": "Portuguese motorcycle Grand Prix\n\nThe Portuguese motorcycle Grand Prix was a motorcycling road racing event that was part of the Grand Prix motorcycle racing season.\n\nThe event was held twice in the 1980s in Spanish circuits. It returned to Portugal in 2000 after the Estoril Circuit was homologated for international motorcycle racing, and was last held in 2012.\n"}
{"id": "23414724", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23414724", "title": "Riffa Views Skins Game", "text": "Riffa Views Skins Game\n\nThe Riffa Views Skins Game is a skins game, that is contested by some of the world's top golfers. It is currently sponsored by the host, Riffa Views Estates in Bahrain. \n\nThe inaugural event in 2008 was played over \"The Montgomerie\" course at Riffa Views Signature Estates. The Montgomerie was designed by Colin Montgomerie, who also competed in the event alongside Camilo Villegas, Michael Campbell, and Retief Goosen. Goosen was the overall skins and money winner after winning the final $50,000 skin in a shootout on the 18th hole.\n\nPlayed over The Montgomerie course at Riffa Views Signature Estates, Bahrain.\n"}
{"id": "11324718", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11324718", "title": "Robert and Mariam Hayes Stadium", "text": "Robert and Mariam Hayes Stadium\n\nRobert and Mariam Hayes Stadium at Tom and Lib Phillips Field is a baseball venue on the campus of the University of North Carolina at Charlotte in Charlotte, North Carolina, United States. The playing surface has been the home of the Charlotte 49ers baseball team since 1984, and the new stadium surrounding the field was opened in 2007.\n\nThe Charlotte baseball team played its first season in 1979 at Crockett Park, the home of the Double-A Charlotte O's. In 1984, a field was built on Charlotte's campus. After businessman Tom Phillips paid to have lights added to the field in 1988, the facility was rechristened Tom and Lib Phillips Field.\n\nThe playing surface was redone during the 2003 season; in the meantime, the 49ers played at Fieldcrest Cannon Stadium, fifteen miles away in Kannapolis.\n\nIn 2010, the 49ers averaged nearly 1,000 fans per game as 33,966 attended games at Robert and Mariam Hayes Stadium. Through the first 8 home games in 2011, 8,166 attended games for a 1,020 average.\n\nAs of March 3, 2011, the 49ers have a 96-25 record at the stadium.\n\nIn the summer of 2006 it was announced that Phillips Field would undergo a $5.9 million overhaul with the goal of making UNC Charlotte's baseball facilities top-notch. The project was funded by the late Mariam Cannon Hayes, a local philanthropist who had contributed money to numerous educational programs and facilities throughout North Carolina such as the Barnhardt Student Activity Center at UNC Charlotte and the school of music at Appalachian State University.\n\nThe renovation affected all aspects of the baseball facility at UNC Charlotte with the exception of the playing surface. Concession stands and restrooms, previously available only across the street from the field, are available inside the stadium. Whereas Phillips Field had one set of metal bleachers and a small metal pressbox, Hayes Stadium features a lower level of chairback seats and an upper level of bleachers. The pressbox consists of radio and television booths and offices for the baseball staff. On May 11, 2007, the hospitality suite that is part of the new facility was named in honor of Erik Walker, a former pitcher with the 49ers and the Tampa Bay Devil Rays organization who was killed in a canoeing accident in October 2006.\n\nDuring the initial stages of the renovation, Charlotte's baseball team practiced at local high school facilities. The first half of the 49ers' 2007 season was played mostly at Fieldcrest Cannon Stadium, but the team also played home series on the campuses of Winthrop University and Pfeiffer University.\n\nThe 49ers opened Robert and Mariam Hayes Stadium on March 30, 2007 with a 3-1 victory over UMass. En route to the 2007 Atlantic 10 conference title, the 49ers went 25-4 in all home games, including a 13-3 record at Hayes Stadium.\n\nDespite being finished enough to host games during the latter portions of the 2007 season, the stadium was not complete until the summer of 2007. The chairback seats were in place by late April, but the bleachers, pressbox, restrooms, and concession stands were not finished in time for the end of the season.\n\nIn October 2007 a new scoreboard was erected in right-center field, complete with a scrolling message board. Plans are in the making to add a video replay board in the future. An indoor practice hitting facility will be added adjacent to the third-base side of the stadium sometime in the near future.\n\nThe facility features one of the campus's 14 Richard Hallier athletic statues. The statue of a batter graces the front entrance to the stadium. There are 11 more Hallier sports statues on the UNC Charlotte campus, all of which were donated by Charlotte businessman and philanthropist Irwin Belk.\n\nTwo cemetery plots bracket the front entrance to the stadium. The plots belonged to the former Mecklenburg County Indigents' Home; A hospital that cared for the poor, which was located near the current location of Carolinas Medical Center-University. The burials occurred in the 1930s and 1940s, before the University moved to the location in 1961. The graves are marked with plain rock markers and no record of the names of those buried there remain. The plots are closed off by wooden split-rail fencing.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "11345", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11345", "title": "Snap (gridiron football)", "text": "Snap (gridiron football)\n\nA snap (colloquially called a \"hike\", \"snapback\", or \"pass from center\") is the backwards passing of the ball in American and Canadian football at the start of play from scrimmage.\n\nThe ball begins on the ground with its long axis parallel to the sidelines of the field, its ends marking each team's line of scrimmage in American football; in Canadian football, the line of scrimmage of the team without the ball is 1 yard past their side of the ball. The player snapping the ball (known officially as the \"snapper\" in rule books) delivers the ball to another player, and that action is the snap. The snapper may hand, throw, or even roll the ball to the other player. The snap must be a quick and continuous movement of the ball by one or both hands of the snapper, and the ball must leave the snapper's hands. The various rules codes have additional requirements, all of which have the effect of requiring the ball to go backwards to a player behind the line of scrimmage (i.e. in the \"backfield\"). The snapper almost always passes the ball between his legs, but only in Canadian football is that required.\n\nIn the standard gridiron football formation, the center/centre is the snapper and is situated in the middle of the line of scrimmage. Only in arena football is the center required by rule to be the snapper. In other codes, a guard, tackle, tight end or split end can legally deliver the snap; such scenarios, known as an \"unbalanced line\", are seldom used outside of trick plays and novelties.\nFor a handed snap, the snapper will usually have his head up, facing opponents. For a thrown snap, especially in formations wherein the ball may be snapped to players in different positions, the snapper will commonly bend over looking between his legs. Because of the vulnerability of a player in such a position, the National Collegiate Athletic Association (NCAA) and the National Federation of State High School Associations (\"Fed\") have adopted rules providing that if a player is positioned at least 7 yards behind the neutral zone to receive a snap, opponents are not to deliberately contact the snapper until one second after the snap (NCAA), or until the snapper has a chance to react (Fed). However, in professional football it is common for a center to be able to practice a single \"shotgun\" formation thrown snap enough to keep his head up and toss it blindly.\n\nIn the National Football League (and presumably other levels), the snap is considered a backward pass and not a handoff. This rule was highlighted in a preseason 2014 game between the Arizona Cardinals and the Minnesota Vikings, when Zach Bauman picked up the ball from the turf after a bad snap and ran it six yards for a touchdown. Since the loose ball was a dropped backward pass and not a fumble, any player could pick up the ball and advance the ball—if it were a fumble, only the original carrier could advance the ball.\n\nThe team entitled to snap the ball will usually know in advance the moment when the snap is to occur as one of their players calls out signals, which usually include a loud sound such as \"hut\" voiced one or more times, the number of which they know; they are thus said to know the \"snap count\". Therefore, they have a considerable advantage over their opponents. The Center is not, however, allowed to make motions simulating part of the snap action; therefore their opponents can be confident the first motion of the ball or the Center's hands is the beginning of the snap.\n\nThe snap count is decided on in the huddle, usually expressed as \"...on <number>.\" being the final words spoken by the quarterback after calling the play but before the huddle breaks and the players go to the line of scrimmage. The snap count allows offensive players to have a small head start. The defensive players want to predict the snap, and build up speed such that they cross the line of scrimmage exactly as the play begins, so as to increase their chances of getting a tackle for a loss or a sack. By varying the snap count, a quarterback forces the defensive players to react to the movement of the offensive players, or risk being called for an offsides or encroachment penalty. Unfortunately for the offense, this advantage can sometimes become a disadvantage. When faced with an exceptionally loud stadium, players may be unable to hear the snap count, and are forced to concentrate more on visual cues (silent snap count or a hard count), or risk false start penalties.\n\nThe offense must also be mindful of the play clock. If they fail to snap the ball in time they incur a delay of game penalty. Also, with a dwindling play clock, the defense has better chances of guessing when the ball will be snapped. It is easier to predict when the ball will be snapped with 2 seconds left on the play clock, rather than 5 seconds.\n\nThe defensive team is not allowed to simulate, by calling out numbers, the offense's snap count. Successfully simulating the count would cause members of the offensive team to act too early ruining co-ordination of the play and inviting penalties. Current rules, unlike earlier rules, position officials so far from the line of scrimmage for 50 minutes of the 60-minute game that it is extremely difficult to hear if the defense is simulating the count.\n\nThe snap, the set scrum and ruck in today's rugby union, and the play-the-ball in rugby league have common origins in rugby football. As the rules of rugby's scrimmage were written when the game came to North America, they had a significant flaw which was corrected by custom elsewhere, but by the invention of the snap in American football.\n\nThe rule adopted by a committee for American football in 1880 first provided for the uncontested right of one side to play the ball by foot (in any direction) for a scrimmage. A certain use of the foot on the ball which had the same effect as heeling it back was known as a \"snap\". Later in the 19th Century the option of snapping the ball back by hand was added. The option to play the ball with the foot was preserved, however, for several decades, although by early in the 20th Century it was restricted to kicking the ball forward. The kick forward in scrimmage was a surprise play which did not work against a prepared defense. Also for several decades alternatives to the scrimmage for playing the ball from across the sideline after it had gone out of bounds—a throw-in or \"fair\", and \"bounding in\"—existed. Note also that until well into the 20th Century, rather than an official readying the ball for scrimmage, the side entitled to the snap had complete custody of the ball and could snap it from the required spot at any time; for instance, a tackled ball carrier might feign injury, then suddenly snap the ball while recumbent, there being no stance requirement yet. The neutral zone and the right of the Center not to be contacted by an opponent before the snap also was not an original feature. As the 20th Century drew to a close, the NCAA and National Federation of State High School Associations extended that protection to some time after the snap, in cases where a player is positioned at least 7 yards deep to receive a thrown snap.\n\nCanadian football used the rugby scrimmage unaltered until near the end of the 19th Century, when, regionally at first, under the influence of the American scrimmage, the number of players in the scrimmage was limited to three—a \"centre scrimmager\" bound on either side by props called \"side scrimmagers\". The centre scrimmager was later renamed the \"snap\", and in intercollegiate play one side was given the right to put foot to ball first. Beginning regionally again and universally by 1923, the Burnside rules led to the 3-man scrimmage being reduced to the centre alone, the number of players on the field being reduced commensurately from 14 to 12, and a snap rule and neutral zone similar to that of American football was adopted. In addition to the between-the-legs requirement noted above, for several years after the adoption of the hand snap, a hand-to-hand snap was illegal, the ball required to be thrown instead, in Canadian football. (Though it was technically legal, the hand-to-hand snap was not used on the American side of the border until the 1930s.) Apparently a complete break was desired from system of backheeling, and the T formation having gone into eclipse in American football at the time, the Canadian snap was modeled on the formations then in common use in the USA, such as the single wing.\n\nThe game design rationale for requiring the snap to be a quick and continuous motion to the backfield is to eliminate the need for rules provisions for a live ball in scrimmage. In Rugby Union the ball may be retained by the forwards and played for a time via the foot in a scrummage (which Rugby League has as well) or ruck, or by the hands in a maul, necessitating additional restrictions on play and player positioning during those intervals. In American and Canadian football, the ball as it is put in play is only held in the line (by the Center) for a fraction of a second. The uncontested possession also, as Walter Camp pointed out, allows for better offensive and defensive planning by the side entitled to snap the ball and their opposition, respectively. A muffed snap can be recovered by either team.\n\n"}
{"id": "19499747", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19499747", "title": "Socialist Workers' Sport International", "text": "Socialist Workers' Sport International\n\nSocialist Workers' Sport International (, SASI) was an international socialist sporting organisation, based in Lucerne. It was founded in 1920, and consisted of six national federations (with a combined membership of about one million) at the time of its foundation. Initially it was known as International Association for Sports and Physical Culture. Informally it was known as the Lucerne Sport International. It adopted the name SASI in 1926. The Austro-Marxist Julius Deutsch was the president of SASI.\n\nInternational Labour Sports Federation (CSIT) was established in 1946 as the successor of SASI.\n\nAn international meeting of workers sports associations had been held in Ghent, Belgium, in 1913. However, the First World War put the build-up of an international workers' sport organisation on hold. After the war two Belgians, Gaston Bridoux and Jules Devlieger, took initiative to revive the cooperation. Preparatory meetings were held in Seraing, Belgium in 1919 and in Paris, France, during Easter 1920. The founding congress of the international took place in Lucerne September 13-September 14, 1920. During the foundation, the French and Belgian delegations urged that the word 'Socialist' be omitted from the name of the organisation, in order to attract a broader following.\n\nThe organisation upheld a policy of neutrality towards party organisations, a policy inherited from the German workers' sports movement (which tried to steer away from the fractional conflicts between the German socialists). This policy was however challenged by the communists, which claimed that the workers' sport movement could not abstain from taking part in revolutionary struggle. In 1921, the third congress of the Communist International decided to form a parallel sport international. In August 1921, the Sportintern was founded. Sportintern launched fierce political attacks against the Lucerne international. Its Czechoslovak section had suffered a split in July 1921, as the communists deserted it.\n\nAt the second congress of the Lucerne International, held in Leipzig 1922, the French delegation argued in favour of unification between the two Internationals. This policy was not supported by the congress. The following year, the French affiliate FST decided to shift its membership to Sportintern.\n\nAhead of the 1925 Workers Olympiad, the Sportintern appealed to the Lucerne International that four Sportintern delegations (France, Soviet Union, Norway, Czechoslovakia) should be allowed to participate. Discussions lingered on within the Lucerne International, but after communist sportsmen had made a public protest at a German Workers Sports Festival in Karlsbad in 1924, it was decided that the Sportintern would be barred from the Workers Olympiad. Likewise SASI barred its affiliates for participating in the 1928 Spartakiad organised by Sportintern.\n\nPolitically, SASI was supported by the International Federation of Trade Unions and the Labour and Socialist International.\n\nThe main activity of SASI was the organizing of the International Workers' Olympiads, portrayed as a socialist alternative to the 'bourgeois' Olympics. At the Workers Olympiads only the red flag was used, rather than national flags.\n\n\nAs of 1931, SASI claimed the following membership figures:\n\n"}
{"id": "5407111", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5407111", "title": "Stade Am Deich", "text": "Stade Am Deich\n\nStade Am Deich is a football stadium in Ettelbruck, in central Luxembourg. It is currently the home stadium of FC Etzella Ettelbruck. The stadium has a capacity of about 2,020.\n\n"}
{"id": "6657526", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6657526", "title": "Stade Maniang Soumaré", "text": "Stade Maniang Soumaré\n\nStade Maniang Soumaré is a multi-use stadium in Thiès, Senegal. It is currently used mostly for football matches and serves as a home ground of US Rail. The stadium holds 8,000 people.\n"}
{"id": "6599096", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6599096", "title": "Stadionul Orășenesc (Bălți)", "text": "Stadionul Orășenesc (Bălți)\n\nStadionul Orășenesc, usually named Olimpia Bălți Stadium, is a multi-use stadium in Bălți, Moldova. It is currently used mostly for football matches and is the home ground of Zaria Bălți.The stadium holds 5,953 people.\n\n"}
{"id": "21284917", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21284917", "title": "Surat Thani Province Stadium", "text": "Surat Thani Province Stadium\n\nSurat Thani Province Stadium () is a football stadium in Surat Thani, Thailand. It is the home stadium of Surat Thani F.C.. The stadium holds 10,000 spectators.\n\n"}
{"id": "3672559", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3672559", "title": "Tanzania Football Federation", "text": "Tanzania Football Federation\n\nThe Tanzania Football Federation (TFF) (), previously Football Association of Tanzania, is the governing body of football in Tanzania. It oversees operations of the Tanznian football league system and the Tanzania national football team. It was founded in 1945 and has been affiliated with FIFA since 1964. Wallace Karia is the new President of the Tanzania Football Federation.\n\nIn January 2008 the Tanzania Football Federation in partnership with Peter Johnson created the Tanzania Soccer Academy (TSA), a national academy to develop football and provide full education scholarships to players.\n\nTanzania National Main Stadium is a multi-purpose stadium in Dar es Salaam, Tanzania. It opened in 2007 and was built adjacent to Uhuru Stadium, the former national stadium. It hosts major football matches such as the Tanzanian Premier League and home matches of the Tanzania national football team.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "904857", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=904857", "title": "Third umpire", "text": "Third umpire\n\nThe third umpire (or TV Umpire) is an off-field umpire in international cricket matches who makes the final decision in questions referred to him by the two on-field umpires. Television replays and other technology are available to the third umpire to assist him in coming to a decision. An on-field umpire can, at his own discretion, use a radio link to refer any close decision concerning dismissals (catches, runouts or stumpings) or boundaries to the third umpire. Also players can initiate reviews of particular decisions by the on-field umpires, which are judged by the third umpire.\n\nThe third umpire was conceptualized by former Sri Lankan domestic cricketer, and current cricket writer Mahinda Wijesinghe and debuted in Test cricket in November 1992 at Kingsmead, Durban for the South Africa vs. India series. Karl Liebenberg was the third umpire with Cyril Mitchley the on-field umpire, referring the run-out decision in this match. Sachin Tendulkar became the first batsman to be dismissed (run out) by using television replays in the second day of the Test scoring 11.\n\nIn many cases of run out or stumped, the event occurs in a fraction of a second. If the on-field umpires are unable to decide if the batsman is out, they may request the third umpire to ascertain whether the batsman had made it home. The third umpire then looks at various TV replays from different angles, comes to a conclusion, and indicates his decision by pressing the appropriate signal. Originally decisions were conveyed in traffic light style (a red light indicating a batsman's dismissal, a green light not out); it is now common practice to display the decision via the large screen scoreboard, if available. If the umpire is unsure if a batsman is out or not, due to lack of conclusive evidence, the usual procedure is to acquit the batsman, known in cricketing parlance as \"the benefit of the doubt\".\n\nThe third umpire may also be called upon if the on-field umpire cannot decide which batsman is out (i.e. they end up at the same end). An example of this was the Third Test between New Zealand and the West Indies in 2006.\n\nA batsman is caught out if a fielder catches the ball on the fly. In some cases the fielder may catch the ball a few inches above ground level. If the umpire's vision is obscured or is unsure if the ball bounced before the fielder caught the ball, he can also refer the decision.\n\nA six is scored if the batsman hits the ball directly beyond the perimeter of the field. In some cases the ball may bounce just a foot inside the boundary rope resulting in four runs. If the umpire needs to ascertain if it had been a 4 or a 6, he may consult the third umpire. Near the boundary, often a fielder may dive to save the ball from travelling beyond the boundary. If the fielder makes any simultaneous contact with the boundary and the cricket ball, 4 runs are declared. A third umpire may also be consulted in such a case.\n\nThe third umpire also adjudicates appeals initiated by the players against decisions made by the on-field umpires, as part of the Umpire Decision Review System, and reports to the on-field umpire whether his analysis supports the original call, contradicts the call, or is inconclusive.\n\nWhenever a third umpire decision is signalled by an on-field umpire, the third umpire gets access to instant replay to make his decision. The instant replays are also available to the TV/Internet viewers. However, the live crowd does not get to witness it. Because in most of the cases, third umpire decisions end up in a tight gap between out and not out. A live crowd will make their decision on the replay shown. However, the third umpire is required to follow guidelines which may not be known by the crowd.\n\nAfter the Stuart Broad incident, in The Ashes 2013, ICC has started to take steps to give third umpire access to instant replays. This is regardless of calls being referred to by on-field umpires. By doing so, ICC wants to make sure that any obvious mistakes are avoided in future.\n\n"}
{"id": "48256610", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48256610", "title": "Tirador (velodrome)", "text": "Tirador (velodrome)\n\nTirador is a velodrome in Palma (Mallorca, Balearic Islands, Spain). It is an outdoor track cycling, opened in 1903 and was the most important velodrome built in Spain during 60 years. It was closed in 1973 and still existing, but no longer in use. Since 2015 it is of municipal property and is currently in process of rehabilitation.\n\nIt has been one of the four cycling tracks in the city. Before it existed Son Espanyolet (1893–1911), then the current velodrome of Son Moix (1987) and finally the Palma Arena (2007).\n\nThe Palma cyclist society Veloz Sport Balear was the driving force behind its construction. In the decade of 1890s the track cycling was beginning to take hold on the island and, with it, several slopes of poor quality and short route surfaced. Thus was born the first velodrome of the capital: \"Son Espanyolet\", inaugurated in 1893. Like the rest, its construction was technically deficient (it was reopened twice more, to make up for its shortcomings) and the \"Veloz Sport Balear\" (one of the tenants of the track) thought of building a better quality enclosure, in addition to doing it on their own land guarantee its durability. For this he acquired some land (then outside the walls) of the city, near the torrent of \"sa Riera\" that formerly crossed the city.\n\nThe first \"Tirador\" stone was placed on 4 December 1898, but various circumstances (mainly lack of liquidity) interrupted the works on several occasions and prolonged them for almost five years, until which was inaugurated on 10 August 1903. After its inauguration of the activity in \"Son Espanyolet\" it completely ceased and shortly afterwards it disappeared.\n\nIts inauguration was a national event and very soon \"Tirador\" became the reference track in Spain: there was held Spanish National of Track Cycling Sprint Championships in 1904, evidence that had ceased to be disputed in 1897 for lack of an adequate track. At the same time it propitiated the birth of the Spanish National of Track Cycling Motor-Paced Championships in 1908, until then non-existent, since it was the most suitable track for the long-distance race dispute. Despite this, the cycling fans in Mallorca were going through a period of crisis and the amateur only responded to the big events, so during the rest of the year in the precinct was practiced all kinds of sports, especially the football.\n\nThe first years of \"Tirador\" contributed decisively to the consolidation and development of the majorcan cycling fans and the emergence of the first local Spain champions from 1913. Since then, the Spanish track has been dominated by majorcan cyclists for decades, especially in the medium-depth category. Of this first time they emphasized Simó Febrer \"Guixer\" and Miquel Bover Salom.\n\nIn 1920 the \"Veloz Sport Balear\" planned to replace the runway with a covered velodrome of greater capacity and functionality due to the success of the contested events, similar to Vélodrome d'Hiver of Paris (the Vél d'Hiv); but nothing happened and the track survived.\n\nBetween 1921 and 1925 \"Tirador\" was closed by a federative sanction, but upon reopening it regained its leadership in Spanish track cycling without problems. Successively they were appearing tracks in Spain that could be an alternative, like the Velodrome of Ciudad Lineal (Madrid), the velodrome annexed to Estadio Torrero (Zaragoza) or the velodrome of Sants (Barcelona), which hosted several editions of the Spanish National of Track Cycling Championships in 1920s and 1930s; but for various reasons all were of short duration, which left successively \"Tirador\" as the only reference.\n\nDuring the Spanish Civil War \"Tirador\" was practically inactive, but suffered no material damage. At the end of the war, he recovered his activity with equal or greater force and, except for specific periods, during the 1940s and 1950s his cycling activity was constant at all levels. During these years the competition of foreign cyclists was scarce, first by the Second World War and then by the diplomatic isolation of the country. These years highlighted the majorcan runners Miquel Llompart and the own Bartomeu Flaquer.\n\nDuring those years, new clues appeared in Campos (1935), Tortosa (1943), Mataró (1948) and others of shorter voyage, which hosted important events and official championships with assiduity, but without ever moving the Palma track as the main reference.\n\nThe victory of the majorcan Guillem Timoner in the 1955 World Championship held in Milan was an accolade for the track, which since then entered the circuit of great tracks of the world attracted by the local champion, regular runner on the track. This also coincided with a generation of majorcan cyclists who achieved international relevance and helped to consolidate the international range of \"Tirador\" like Pere Josep Gomila, Josep Escalas, Francesc Tortella or the 1965 world champion, Miquel Mas.\n\nFrom the 1950s periodically projects were created to replace the velodrome with other facilities of greater capacity and functionality, once the worst postwar years were overcome and because of their gradual aging. In spite of this, nothing ever materialized and the track survived. The moment of greatest risk was the ambitious municipal project planned in 1960s by the mayor Màxim Alomar to cover the torrent of \"sa Riera\" that crosses the city and passed by the side of the track, but that was finally discarded due to its high cost.\n\nThe opening of the Velódromo de Anoeta (San Sebastián) in 1965, with the celebration of the World Championships the same year, marked the beginning of its decline. From then on \"Tirador\" ceased to be the reference track in Spain and entered a process of irreversible decadence. It stopped receiving first level tests from 1968 (it would still host official Spanish National Championships until 1972), its increasing deterioration and the generalized loss of interest in track competitions to the detriment of road cycling forced its definitive closure in March 1973. The last rehabilitation projects in collaboration with the Spanish or Balearic federations did not succeed and the construction of a new velodrome in the neighboring town of Algaida in 1975 buried it definitively in oblivion.\n\nSince then its owners, a \"Veloz Sport Balear\" in low hours, dedicated the land to other uses. In 1999, paddle courts were built in the central space and a parking lot for the users, for which the runway was mutilated at the height of one of the cantons to allow access for the vehicles. And shortly after, another velodrome space was enabled as a municipal vehicle depot. Meanwhile, the track was abandoned and in a state of progressive degradation.\n\nSince 1990s the municipal government planned the construction of a large green area in the torrent of \"sa Riera\" called \"sa Falca Verda\" (The Green Wedge). The design of the park contemplated the disappearance of the track, except for the \"Xalet\" of Gaspar Bennazar. In 2007 a first phase of the park was inaugurated and the expropriation procedures were continued for the second, among whose land was \"Tirador\". The judicial appeals filed by the affected owners and the delay in their resolution meant that the expropriation of the velodrome was not completed until July 2015, although new resources did not make it final until 2017.\n\nIn those years a series of articles in the press made known the idiosyncrasy of the track and its value, social, historical and heritage. This helped to spread the importance of \"Tirador\" among those who were unaware of its existence, or recovered it for those old fans who believed that it had disappeared.\n\nIn any case, for the expropriation the initial project of \"sa Falca Verda\" had already been ruled out: the municipal government decided to discard the initial design for another one that maintained the historic installation integrated in a future green area together with the solar annex of the \"Canòdrom Balear\" (an old greyhound track). Shortly afterwards, in October 2015 its cataloging was announced as a heritage asset and its inclusion in the catalog of protected buildings.\n\nCurrently (2018) its cataloging has not yet taken place and the preliminary draft of the velodrome rehabilitation is in the drafting phase.\n\nIn 2018 a book of historical character was presented that compiles the history of the velodrome, from the origins to the present.\n\nThe track of \"Tirador\" has a rope of 333.33 m and 6 m wide, with two solid concrete banks (facing East and West) and bleachers on each side of the straight lines: main (North) and general (South), with capacity for approximately 2,000 spectators. Due to the elongated nature of the land acquired by the \"Veloz Sport Balear\", the ellipse of the track is longer than normal to adapt to the perimeter of the farm: its straights have a longer route and their supers are more closed normal, in addition to more inclined to compensate for its pronounced curvature. As a result, the central space has an approximate area of 110 by 33.3 m.\n\nIn 1918 the architect Gaspar Bennazar added a building annexed to the Ponente canton in the form of a temple called \"es Xalet\" (the Chalet), covered tribune that served of cafeteria and terrace for the members and located in such a way that it offered a privileged perspective of the cyclist tests that were disputed there. In the 1970s it was renovated to house the social premises of the \"Veloz Sport Balear\".\n\nSince its closure in 1973 the work as a whole (track, steps and \"Xalet\") was progressively degraded. Even so, the quality of the construction has meant that it is only superficial and that the whole structure remains intact. At the beginning of the 1990s a vial was opened that carried the wall and part of the entrance gardens, but did not affect the rest of the group.\n\nFrom its opening to its closure the track hosted official events regularly and is probably the track that most official championships of Spain and Balearic Islands has hosted.\n\n\"Tirador\" organized tests with foreign runners very soon, since the first one went back to 1906. Although the participation of very first figures had to wait for the 1950s, thanks to the successes of whoever was six times UCI Motor-paced World Championships between 1955 and 1965, the majorcan Guillem Timoner.\n\nOn several occasions he chose to host the old European Championship, and even a World Championship. But it never succeeded, mainly due to the lack of resources of the Royal Spanish Cycling Federation to confront the company and the superiority of other countries in the economic sphere, logistics and sports. Also other factors, such as the outbreak of World War I, prevented his candidacy for the 1915 European and the 1917 World Championship from prospering.\n\nSince its inauguration, the velodrome has gained great prestige nationwide and regularly hosted the Spanish National Championships of sprint (since 1904) and Spanish National Championships of Motor-Paced (from 1908). Later he would do the same with the different modalities that arose, especially, from 1940s: Commercial Motor-Paced (1941) or Pursuit (1949), both in professional and amateur categories in all cases.\n\n\n(*) first edition of the modality.\n\nIn the 1960s participated in the \"Intervelodromes Tournament\", a competition in league format that faced teams attached to different tracks of the Spanish geography. The Balearic team, who ran in \"Tirador\", won the first edition (1965).\n\nThe Balearic Championship of Sprint was held for its inauguration, and since then it has been regularly held there. Balearic Championship of Long-distance since its creation in 1912, as well as the rest of the modalities that emerged later as in the national case. In this case \"Tirador\" had to rival the profusion of tracks of Mallorca, especially with the velodrome of Campos.\n\n\n(*) first edition of the modality.\n\nDuring the years of activity of \"Tirador\" the tests were carried out only by male cyclists. The exception was the visit of the Italian Alfonsina Strada, a pioneer of women's cycling in her time, who ran in 1926.\n\nNo official women's events were organized, since they began to be held at Mallorca starting 1979 and the regional championships on track starting the following year, when the velodrome had already been closed.\n\nWhen the track was built, cycling was the only sport with certain roots; the practice of other sports was still scarce and there were hardly any spaces for their practice. This turned \"Tirador\" into the main sports space in which the majority of sports developed as they arrived on the island.\n\n\nApart from the sports slope, the velodrome was a social meeting point as it is the main outdoor space suitable for mass events. Verbenas, concerts and shows were common, especially during the first third of the 20th century.\n\n\"Tirador\" is the oldest cycling track in Spain. It is followed by the velodrome of Campos (1935) and further away the tracks of Tortosa (1943) and Mataró (1948). At the moment it is the oldest sport enclosure that is conserved in Mallorca.\n\nAt the world level, it is the 12th oldest runway on the planet (see List of oldest cycling tracks and velodromes), surpassed only by four United Kingdom velodromes (built between 1877 and 1900), six of France (between 1884 and 1897) and one of Hungary (1896). All of them are in use and, for this reason, they have been modernized to varying degrees for their use; instead, \"Tirador\" is preserved almost as when it was inaugurated in 1903.\n\nThe frustration of projects for its extension or substitution (first) and the relative abandonment (after) in the 1950s were already qualified to the track as old-made that \"Tirador\" remained almost unchanged as is since its inauguration, except surface arrangements for its basic maintenance.\n\nThe City Council of Palma, in municipal plenary of 29 May 2014, unanimously approved a proposal for the patrimonial cataloging of the building adjoining the velodrome (the \"Xalet\") and the conservation of the track in a future public space. However, the cataloging did not materialize. Subsequently the Majorca Insular Council, in full ordinary of 16 October 2018, unanimously approved a similar proposal urging the City Council to catalog the site entirely; otherwise, the Insular Council will start the procedures for its patrimonial protection.\n\nDuring the 70 years of activity of the velodrome there were a total of five fatalities:\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "7732154", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7732154", "title": "Turkey at the 1968 Winter Olympics", "text": "Turkey at the 1968 Winter Olympics\n\nTurkey competed at the 1968 Winter Olympics in Grenoble, France.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1532629", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1532629", "title": "Villa Paletti", "text": "Villa Paletti\n\nVilla Paletti is a board game of physical skill designed by Bill Payne and published in 2001 by Zoch Verlag. Players compete to build the villa highest using columns from lower floors without collapsing the structure.\n\nA double-size version of the game, \"Palazzo Paletti\", is also available.\n\nEach player chooses a colour (in the case of two-player games, each player chooses two colours). They then take their wooden column pieces - three thin, one medium, and one wide - and arrange them on the base mat. The players must then agree on a fair placement of the first \"floor\", which must lie completely above the base mat and which cannot partially cover any column.\n\nEach player in turn must take one of their columns from any level except the highest, and place it on the highest floor. If they cannot remove one of their columns, they may ask to place the next floor. Each opponent may challenge this decision; if they choose to do so and are successful, they may remove that piece from play, and the player misses their go. If no opponent challenges the player, they may place the next floor on top of the pillars of the current highest floor - again, it must lie completely above the base mat and cannot partially cover any column.\n\nOnce a column is placed on the second floor, the player with the most column points (one for thin, two for medium, three for large) on the highest level is the leader. If the tower is collapsed by any other player, the leader has won; if they collapse the tower, the previous leader wins. If the tower collapses before a column is placed on the second floor, or if the first leader collapses the tower, no-one has won.\n\n\"Villa Paletti\" won the Spiel des Jahres 2002, the Games 100 Top dexterity award, the Tric Trac gold medal 2001, Belgian game of the year 2003, finalist in Switzerland, Japan, Finland and more. The San Francisco Chronicle picked it as their top game for 2004.\n\n"}
{"id": "2820777", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2820777", "title": "Williams Stadium", "text": "Williams Stadium\n\nArthur L. Williams Stadium is a 25,000 seat football stadium located on the campus of Liberty University in Lynchburg, Virginia, USA. The stadium was built in 1989 and plays host to Liberty Flames football, which is a part of the NCAA Division I - Football Bowl Subdivision (FBS). A new field house has recently been constructed at the north end of the stadium. This new facility houses a new home locker room, coaches offices, meeting rooms and training facility as well as a weight room. In the 2009 off season, Liberty University added a video scoreboard on the north end of the field. The video scoreboard measured tall and wide. This video board was replaced by a massive new high-definition video board in time for the 2018 football season. \n\nIn September 2011, a ribbon video board was added to the facade of the upper deck. This too was replaced by a state of the art ribbon video board on both the eastern and western facades of the upper deck in 2018. \n\nThe stadium was named in 1994 to honor Arthur L. Williams, Jr. who was a major contributor to the University.\nLiberty University President Jerry Falwell, Jr. announced on August 28, 2009 a three phase addition to Williams Stadium. The plan was to increase the seating capacity of the stadium from 12,000 seats to 30,000. The first phase of the construction included a five story press box and expanded the stadium by 7,200 seats. This was done by adding a second deck to the home side of the stadium and lengthening the east and west stands of the stadium. The seating capacity was 19,200 after phase one was completed. The estimated cost for the first phase of the project was $18 million.\nThe new press tower was ready for Liberty's Oct. 2, 2010 home game against Savannah State. The tower includes 18 luxury suites, all of which were sold for the 2010 season.\n\nPhase two has added a second deck to the student side, which has increased capacity to 25,000, beginning with the 2018 football season. The estimated cost for the second phase of the project was $40 million. Phase three will complete a \"horseshoe\" around the south end zone, bringing the total capacity to 30,000. Williams Stadium has the potential to be expanded past 60,000 in the future.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "55565201", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55565201", "title": "Yongpyong Dome", "text": "Yongpyong Dome\n\nYongpyong Dome (용평돔) or Yongpyong Indoor Ice Rink (용평실내빙상경기장) is an indoor stadium in Daegwallyeong-myeon, Pyeongchang-gun, Gangwon-do, South Korea. It is part of the complex of Yongpyong Resort. Completed in 1998, it was constructed by Ssangyong, the then owner of Yongpyong Resort. It was originally built as the main stadium for the 1999 Asian Winter Games. At the games, it was the venue for the opening/closing ceremonies, figure skating and short track speed skating events. It was also the main stadium for the 2013 Special Olympics World Winter Games. It is the only indoor stadium in Pyeongchang.\n\nNext to the dome, Pyeongchang Olympic Village, the main Olympic Village for the 2018 Winter Olympics will be located. The dome will be used as the main dining hall during the Winter Olympics.\n\n"}
