{"id": "5112617", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5112617", "title": "All-points bulletin", "text": "All-points bulletin\n\nAn all-points bulletin (APB) is a broadcast issued from any American or Canadian law enforcement agency to its personnel, or to other law enforcement agencies. It typically contains information about a wanted suspect who is to be arrested or a person of interest, for whom law enforcement officers are to look. They are usually dangerous or missing persons. As used by American police, the term dates to at least 1960. \n\nAn all-points bulletin can also be known as a BOLO or BOL, which stands for \"be on (the) look-out\". Such an alert may also be called a lookout or ATL (\"attempt to locate\").\n\nA similar, longer acronym used by Australian law enforcement is KALOF or KLO4 (for \"keep a look-out for\"). The United Kingdom uses a similar system known as the all-ports warning or APW, which circulates a suspect's description to airports, ports and international railway stations to detect an offender or suspect leaving the country. Because of the great numbers of commuters at such places, British police forces often prefer to contact specific airports, ports or stations and circulate descriptions individually.\n\n"}
{"id": "18007120", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18007120", "title": "Andreas of Caesarea", "text": "Andreas of Caesarea\n\nAndreas of Caesarea (; 563 – 637) was a Greek theological writer and bishop of Caesarea in Cappadocia. Karl Krumbacher assigned him to the first half of the sixth century. He is variously placed by other scholars, from the fifth to the ninth century. However, today it is unquestionable that his life spanned the late sixth/early seventh centuries.\n\nHis principal work is a commentary on the Book of Revelation (\"Patrologia Graeca\" vol. 106, cols. 215–458 and 1387–94) and is the oldest Greek patristic commentary on that book of the Bible. The very first Greek commentary on Revelation barely predates Andrew's work and is attributed to \"Oikoumenios.\" Oikoumenios is not a recognized Father of the Church. Therefore, Andrew of Caesarea's work is correctly identified as the earliest Greek Patristic commentary on the Apocalypse. Most subsequent Eastern Christian commentators of the Book of Revelation have drawn heavily upon Andrew and his commentary, which was preserved in nearly 100 complete Greek manuscripts, as well in translation in Armenian, Georgian, and Slavonic manuscripts. Andrew's most important contribution was that he preserved many existing Eastern traditions associated with Revelation, both oral and written. His commentary was so influential that it preserved a specific text type for Revelation, known as the Andreas type.\n\nAn unpublished study of the work, including an English translation, was made as a thesis by Dr. Eugenia Constantinou in 2008. The English translation of Andrew's commentary has been published by Catholic University of America Press as part of the Fathers of the Church series and became available in November 2011. In 2011 the Catholic University of America published Dr. Constantinou's study as \"Commentary on the Apocalypse (Fathers of the Church Patristic Series)\" In 2013 the Catholic University of America published Dr. Constantinou's study as \"Guiding to a Blessed End: Andrew of Caesarea and His Apocalypse Commentary in the Ancient Church\" Dr. Constantinou's original 2008 PhD thesis, Quebec: Université Laval 508 page manuscript is available from theses.ulaval.ca as a pdf \" Andrew of Caesarea and the Apocalypse in the Ancient Church of the East\"\n\n\nMuch of what is provided in the Catholic Encyclopedia online version is outdated and incorrect.\nUse that reference with caution.\n"}
{"id": "27430228", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27430228", "title": "Anusaaraka", "text": "Anusaaraka\n\nAnusaaraka is an \"English to Indian\" language accessing (translation) software, which employs algorithms derived from Panini's Ashtadhyayi (Grammar rules). The software is being developed by the Chinmaya International Foundation (CIF) at the International Institute of Information Technology, Hyderabad (IIIT-H) and the University of Hyderabad (Department of Sanskrit Studies). Anusaaraka is viewed as the fusion of traditional advanced Indian shastras and advanced contemporary technologies.\n\nAnusaaraka is intended to allow users to access text in any Indian language after translation from the source language (i.e. English or any other regional Indian language). In today's Information Age large volumes of information are available in English – whether it be information for competitive exams or general reading. However, many people whose primary language is Hindi or any other Indian language are unable to access information in English. Anusaaraka aims to bridge this language barrier by allowing a user to enter an English text into Anusaaraka and read it in an Indian language of their choice.\n\nAnusaaraka derives its name from the Sanskrit word \"anusaran\" which means \"to follow.\" It is so called, as the translated Anusaaraka output appears in layers – i.e. a sequence of steps that follow each other till the final translation is displayed to the user.\n\nThroughout the various layers of Anusaaraka output, there is an effort to ensure that the user should be able to understand the information contained in the English sentence. This effort is given greater importance than giving perfect sentences in Hindi, for it would be pointless to have a translation that reads well but does not truly capture the information of the source text.\n\nThe layered output is unique to Anusaaraka. Thus, source language text information and how the Hindi translation is finally arrived at can be accessed by the user. The critical feature of the layered output is that the information transfer is done in a controlled manner at every step thus, making it possible to revert without any loss of information. Also, any damage to information that cannot be avoided in a translation process is then done gradually. Therefore, even if the translated sentence is not as 'perfect' as human translation, with some effort and orientation on reading Anusaaraka output, an individual can understand what the source text is implying by looking at the layers and context in which that sentence appears.\n\nThe feature of gradual transference of information from one layer to the next gives Anusaaraka an additional advantage of bringing reversibility in the translation process – a feature which cannot be achieved by a conventional machine translation system. A bilingual user of Anusaaraka can, at any point, access the source language text in English, because of the transparency in the output. Some amount of orientation on how to read the Anusaaraka output would be required for this.\n\nDisplay of step-by-step translation layers gives an increased level of confidence to the end-user, as he can trace back to the source and get clarity regarding translated text by analysis of the output layers and some reference to context.\n\nThe colors in the output indicate the word category:\n\n"}
{"id": "42341478", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42341478", "title": "Blanco River Remo language", "text": "Blanco River Remo language\n\nBlanco River Remo is an extinct indigenous once spoken in the Peruvian Amazon Basin, near the border with Brazil.\n"}
{"id": "584951", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=584951", "title": "Bleeding edge technology", "text": "Bleeding edge technology\n\nBleeding edge technology is a category of technologies so new that they could have a high risk of being unreliable and lead adopters to incur greater expense in order to make use of them. The term \"bleeding edge\" was formed as an allusion to the similar terms \"leading edge\" and \"cutting edge\". It tends to imply even greater advancement, albeit at an increased risk because of the unreliability of the software or hardware. The first documented example of this term being used dates to early 1983, when an unnamed banking executive was quoted to have used it in reference to Storage Technology Corporation.\n\nBy its nature, a proportion of bleeding edge technology will make it into the mainstream. For example, electronic mail (email) was once considered to be bleeding edge.\n\nA technology may be considered bleeding edge where it contains a degree of risk, or, more generally, there is a significant downside to early adoption, such as:\n\nThe rewards for successful early adoption of new technologies can be great in terms of establishing a comparative advantage in otherwise competitive markets; unfortunately, the penalties for \"betting on the wrong horse\" (e.g. in a format war) or choosing the wrong product are equally large. Whenever an organization decides to take a chance on bleeding edge technology there is a chance that they will be stuck with a white elephant or worse.\n\nBleeding edge computer software, especially open source software, is especially common. Indeed, it is usual practice for open-source developers to release new, bleeding edge, versions of their software fairly frequently, sometimes in a rather unpolished state to allow others to review, test, and, in many cases, contribute to it (beta testing). Therefore, users who want features that have not been implemented in older, more stable releases of the software are able to choose the bleeding-edge version. In such cases, the user is willing to sacrifice stability, reliability, or ease of use for the sake of increased functionality.\n\n\nabout the rise and fall of the firm Theranos, the multibillion-dollar biotech fraud startup headed by Elizabeth Holmes. \n"}
{"id": "30530147", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30530147", "title": "Caboose (ship's galley)", "text": "Caboose (ship's galley)\n\nCaboose (also \"camboose, coboose, cubboos\" derived from the Dutch \"kombuis\") is a term used for a small ship's kitchen, i.e. galley, located on an open deck. At one time a \"caboose\" related to a smaller kitchen aboard a merchantman, while aboard a warship it was called a \"galley\".\n\nWilliam Falconer's 1780 \"A Universal Dictionary of the Marine\" describes a caboose thus: \"a sort of box or house to cover the chimney of some merchant-ships. It somewhat resembles a sentry-box, and generally stands against the barricade on the fore part of the quarter-deck\". Sometimes the caboose was portable.\n\nPrior to the introduction of the caboose the furnaces for cooking were, aboard three-deckers, placed on the middle deck, and aboard two-decked ships in the forecastle.\n\nIn Canada a caboose was formerly used to describe a galley on a timber raft.\n\nThe term was sometimes also applied to the cast-iron stove used for cooking on deck or in galleys during the early 19th century, as well as an outdoor oven or fireplace.\n"}
{"id": "11107040", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11107040", "title": "Cataphatic theology", "text": "Cataphatic theology\n\nCataphatic theology or kataphatic theology is theology that uses \"positive\" terminology to describe or refer to the divine – specifically, God – i.e. terminology that describes or refers to what the divine is believed to be, in contrast to the \"negative\" terminology used in apophatic theology to indicate what it is believed the divine is not.\n\n\"Cataphatic\" comes from the Greek word κατάφασις \"kataphasis\" meaning \"affirmation,\" coming from κατά \"kata\" (an intensifier) and φάναι \"phanai\" (\"to speak\").\n\nTo speak of God or the divine kataphatically is thought by some to be by its nature a form of limiting to God or divine. This was one of the core tenets of the works of Pseudo-Dionysius the Areopagite. By defining what God or the divine is we limit the unlimited. A kataphatic way to express God would be that God is love. The apophatic way would be to state that God is not hate (although such description can be accused of the same dualism). Or to say that God is not love, as he transcends even our notion of love. Ultimately, one would come to remove even the notion of the Trinity, or of saying that God is one, because The Divine is above numberhood. That God is beyond all duality because God contains within Godself all things and that God is beyond all things. The apophatic way as taught by Saint Dionysus was to remove any conceptual understanding of God that could become all-encompassing, since in its limitedness that concept would begin to force the fallen understanding of mankind onto the absolute and divine.\nIn the Eastern Orthodox Church kataphatic theology is critical in the developmental stages of contemplation (see theoria). Once a firm grasp of the positive attributes of God or the divine has been achieved one moves onto the transcendent qualities of the superior or at least the corrective apophatic theology.\n\n\nWithin Mahayana Buddhism, there is a species of scripture which essays a descriptive hint of Ultimate Reality by using positive terminology when speaking of it. This manifestation of Buddhism is particularly marked in the Dzogchen and Tathagatagarbha forms of the religion. Nirvana, for example, is equated with the True Self of the Buddha (pure, uncreated and deathless) in some of the Tathagatagarbha scriptures, and in other Buddhist tantras (such as the Kunjed Gyalpo or 'All-Creating King' tantra), the Primordial Buddha, Samantabhadra, is described as 'pure and total consciousness' - the 'trunk', 'foundation' and 'root' of all that exists.\n\nGaudiya Vaishnavism speaks positively about transcendental qualities of Krishna. He has 64 transcendental qualities as Supreme Personality of Godhead, although these qualities are explained as non-material and beyond duality. The paradoxical nature of Krishna, the Absolute, being both beyond description and having qualities is discussed throughout the Gaudiya Vaishnavism literature. Among the 64 qualities of Krishna, 4 qualities are unique, which only Krishna has, these are:\nThere are other 60 qualities of Krishna, but Narayana also have them. Of these, 5 are special, which are not found in jiva-atmas or (according to the Vaishnava view) other Hindu deities, even Brahma or Shiva:\nOther 55 transcendental qualities are found in Brahma and Shiva, though they are common for Narayana and Krishna, but not found in jiva-atmas. And finally just 50 transcendental qualities can be found in jiva-atmas, who are not on the level of deities, but Krishna and Narayana also have these qualities. It also has to be carefully noted, that these qualities manifest in jiva-atmas only in minute qualities, and only if they become pure devotees of Krishna-Caitanya. On other hand, Krishna has these 64 qualities in full. See full list here: 64 Qualities of Lord Krishna\n\nBut once a firm grasp of the positive qualities or attributes of God has been achieved one moves onto the transcendent qualities of the superior apophatic theology. This is fully absent in Gaudiya Vaisnavism.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "7578875", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7578875", "title": "Chimuan languages", "text": "Chimuan languages\n\nChimuan (also Chimúan) or Yuncan is a hypothetical small extinct language family of northern Peru and Ecuador (inter-Andean valley).\n\nChimuan consisted of three attested languages:\n\n\nAll languages are now extinct.\n\nMochica was one of the major languages of pre-Columbian South America. It was documented by Fernando de la Carrera and Middendorff in the seventeenth and nineteenth centuries respectively. It became extinct ca. 1950, although some people remember a few words. Adelaar & Muysken (2004) consider Mochica a language isolate for now.\n\nCañari and Puruhá are documented with only a few words. These two languages are usually connected with Mochica. However, as their documentation level is so low, it may not be possible to confirm this association. According to Adelaar & Muysken (2004), Jijón y Caamaño's evidence of their relationship is only a single word: Mochica \"nech\" \"river\", Cañari \"necha\"; based on similarities with neighboring languages, he finds a Barbacoan connection more likely.\n\nQuingnam, possibly the same language as Lengua (Yunga) Pescadora, is sometimes taken to be a dialect of Mochica, but it is unattested, unless a list of numerals discovered in 2010 turns out to be Quingnam or Pescadora as expected. Those numerals are not, however, Mochica.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2907487", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2907487", "title": "ClearTalk", "text": "ClearTalk\n\nClearTalk is a controlled natural language—a kind of a formal language for expressing information that is designed to be both human-readable (being based on English) and easily processed by a computer.\n\nAnyone who can read English can immediately read ClearTalk, and the people who write ClearTalk learn to write it while using it. The ClearTalk system itself does most of the training through use: the restrictions are shown by menus and templates and are enforced by immediate syntactic checks. By consistently using ClearTalk for its output, a system reinforces the acceptable syntactic forms.\n\nIt is used by the experimental knowledge management software Ikarus and by a knowledge base management system Fact Guru.\n\n"}
{"id": "187739", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=187739", "title": "Collaborative writing", "text": "Collaborative writing\n\nTo understand what collaborative writing is, we must first understand the word collaboration. Collaboration is known as the sharing of labor, whether this be as a pair or in groups. Therefore collaborative writing refers to the co authorship of a writing piece.\n\nCollaborative writing includes three necessary components to make the writing process work, which include:\n\n\nDuring the collaborative writing process all participants are to have equal responsibilities. All sections of the text should be split up to ensure the work load is evenly displaced, all participants work together and interact throughout the writing process, everyone contributes to planning, making of ideas, making structure of text, editing, and the revision process. Often times collaborative writing is used in instances where a workload would be overwhelming for one person to produce. Therefore ownership of the text is from the group that produced it and not just one person.\n\nCollaborative writing allows authors to combine their literacy tools and knowledge on a single project. Group writing is a social activity, and students who participated in group writing experiments felt it was a good learning exercise. The two parts of collaborative writing that researchers indicated were most influential were peer reviewing and brainstorming.  Students that chose to do group and independent writing in a gave feedback that group writers came away feeling like they had thought of something with their partners that they wouldn’t have on their own. \n\nPeer reviewing made readers feel more connected to the writing, and authors were able to get specific feedback from their audience. Teachers who observed collaborative groups said that members were more receptive and willing to change for constructive criticism. Peer reviewing and brainstorming requires all parties to use critical thinking skills. Critical thinking skills in collaborative writing could be used in deciding on ideas, assigning what each person’s job is, and catering your writing to your audience. \n\nResearchers who did grammatical tests on group writing versus independent writing in students found that even though the amount group authors wrote was less, they used more grammatically complex sentences and answered the prompt accurately. Independent writers tended to use extra information and repeat words. Although collaborative writing can take more time to write the same amount as an independent writer, group plans and simple task work can help time strains. \n\nAttitudes in the academic world value co-authorship, and will often publish more collaboratively written articles more often than single-author articles. Respondents in the professional world surveyed that they felt collaborative writing improved their writing because of their collaborator's knowledge, and they were able to spend more time on article quality together. \n\nCollaborative writing has been the subject of academic research and business for over two decades.\n\nCollaborative writing is used by educators to teach novice authors, of all ages and educational levels, to write. Collaborative writing can be used by professors to teach writers of all ages and teach different educational levels. With collaborative writing, it helps provide participants to explore, discuss and help with learning capabilities. Collaborative writing corporate by contributing ideas with others. The quantity of learning and growth. In the past ten years most studies says that most students are motivated in collaborative writing because of their improvement in writing competencies. When students work in groups, it generally produces shorter but better text such as grammatical accuracy and fulfillment. It gave students ideas and giving information. \n\nAn author acquires a copyright if their work meets certain criteria. In the case of works created by one person, typically, the first owner of a copyright in that work is the person who created the work, i.e. the author. But, when more than one person creates the work in collaboration with one another, then a case of joint authorship can be made provided some criteria are met.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "26521848", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26521848", "title": "Cuban Literacy Campaign", "text": "Cuban Literacy Campaign\n\nThe Cuban Literacy Campaign (Spanish: \"Campaña Nacional de Alfabetización en Cuba\") was a year-long effort to abolish illiteracy in Cuba after the Cuban Revolution. It began on January 1 and ended on December 22, 1961, becoming the world's most ambitious and organized literacy campaign.\n\nBefore 1959 the official literacy rate for Cuba was between 60% and 76%, largely because of lack of education access in rural areas and a lack of instructors. As a result, the Cuban government of Fidel Castro at Che Guevara's behest dubbed 1961 the \"year of education\" and sent \"literacy brigades\" out into the countryside to construct schools, train new educators, and teach the predominantly illiterate \"guajiros\" (peasants) to read and write. The campaign was \"a remarkable success.\" By its completion, 707,212 adults were taught to read and write, raising the national literacy rate to 96%.\n\nIn 2011, producer and director Catherine Murphy released the 33-minute documentary \"Maestra\" about the Cuban Literacy Campaign. The film includes interviews with volunteers who taught during the campaign and archival footage from 1961.\n\nThe dictator Fulgencio Batista was overthrown by an armed guerrilla movement known as the 26th of July Movement (\"Movimiento 26 de Julio\") on January 1, 1959. The new revolutionary government, led by Fidel Castro, immediately began a series of social and economic reforms. Among these were agrarian reform, health care reform, and education reform, all of which dramatically improved the quality of life among the lowest sectors of Cuban society.\n\nDuring the turmoil of the first several years of the revolution, the flight of many skilled workers caused a “brain drain.” This loss of human capital sparked a renovation of the Cuban education system to accommodate the instruction of new workers, who would take the place of those who had emigrated from the country.\n\nIn addition to the renewal of Cuba’s infrastructure, there were strong ideological reasons for education reform. In pre-Revolutionary Cuba, there was a dichotomy between urban citizens and rural citizens (who were often agricultural workers). The Cuban Revolution was driven by the need for equality, particularly among these classes. Before the campaign, the rate of illiteracy among city dwellers was 11%, compared to 41.7% in the countryside.\n\nThe Literacy Campaign was designed to force contact between sectors of society that would not usually interact. As Fidel Castro put it in 1961 while addressing literacy teachers, “You will teach, and you will learn.” Volunteers from the city were often ignorant of the poor conditions of rural citizens until their experiences during this campaign. Besides literacy, the campaign aimed to create a collective identity of “unity, [an] attitude of combat, courage, intelligence, and a sense of history.” Politicized educational materials were used to further these ideals. The effort was labeled a movement of “the people” and gave citizens a common goal, increasing solidarity.\n\nIt is estimated that 1,000,000 Cubans were directly involved (as teachers or students) in the Literacy Campaign. There were four categories of workers:\n\nThe government provided teaching supplies to volunteers. Workers who traveled to rural locations to teach received a standard grey uniform, a warm blanket, a hammock, two textbooks — \"We Shall Read\" and \"We Shall Conquer\" — and a gas-powered lantern, so that lessons could be given at night after work ended.\n\nSupporters of the revolution who were too young or otherwise unable to participate in the downfall of Fulgencio Batista saw the campaign as an opportunity to contribute to the success of the new government and hoped to instill a revolutionary consciousness in their students. Many of the instructional texts used during the Literacy Campaign focused on the history of the Revolution and had strong political messages, which made the movement a target of opposition. Counter-revolutionaries used violent acts of terrorism to destabilize Cuba and create an atmosphere of fear. Several acts were committed on public property, notably the bombing of the country’s largest department store, El Encanto, on April 13, 1961. That year, teachers, students, and peasants were tortured and murdered to terrorize the farming community and reduce support for the literacy campaign. Young teachers were shot, lynched, and stabbed by millitants. There are numerous accusations that these millitants were backed by the United States Government.\n\nMany of the Literacy Campaign’s volunteers went on to pursue teaching careers, and the rate of teachers is now 11 times higher than it was before the revolution. Before the revolutionary government nationalized schools, private institutions often excluded large segments of society; wealthy Cubans often received exemplary instruction in private schools, while children of the working class received low-quality education or did not attend school at all. Education became accessible to a much larger segment of the population after 1959. The percentage of children enrolled in school in Cuba (ages 6–12) increased dramatically over the years:\n\nIt is estimated that 268,000 Cubans worked to eliminate illiteracy during the Year of Education, and around 707,000 Cubans became literate by December 22, 1961. By 1962, the country’s literacy rate was 96%, one of the highest in the world.\n\nCuban literacy educators trained during the campaign went on to assist in literacy campaigns in 15 other countries, for which a Cuban organization was awarded the King Sejong Literacy Prize by UNESCO. Additionally, over the past 50 years, thousands of Cuban literacy teachers have volunteered in countries such as Haiti, Nicaragua and Mozambique.\n\nThe thank-you letters to Fidel Castro, used by UNESCO to evaluate the success of the campaign in 1964, are kept with photographs and details of all 100,000 volunteers in a museum in La Ciudad Libertad (City of Liberty), which is in Fulgencio Batista's vast former headquarters in the western suburbs of Havana.\n\n"}
{"id": "473284", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=473284", "title": "Cultivation theory", "text": "Cultivation theory\n\nCultivation theory examines the long-term effects of television. \"The primary proposition of cultivation theory states that the more time people spend 'living' in the television world, the more likely they are to believe social reality aligns with reality portrayed on television.\" The images and ideological messages transmitted through popular television media heavily influence perceptions of the real world.\n\nCultivation theory was founded by George Gerbner and is positivistic, meaning it assumes the existence of objective reality and value-neutral research. A study conducted by Jennings Bryant and Dorina Miron in 2004, which surveyed almost 2,000 articles published in three top mass-communication journals since 1956, found that Cultivation Theory was the third-most frequently utilized theory, showing that it continues to be one of the most popular theories in mass-communication research.\n\nCultivation theory suggests that exposure to media, over time, subtly \"cultivates\" viewers' perceptions of reality. Gerbner and Gross assert: \"Television is a medium of the socialization of most people into standardized roles and behaviors. Its function is in a word, enculturation\". Within his analysis of cultivation, Gerbner draws attention to three entities—institutions, messages, and publics.\n\nThough most researchers tend to focus on television as it is the most common form of media consumption in the world, Cultivation Theory has been shown to encompass many different forms of media, such as newspapers, film, and even photographs. This can apply anytime social observation occurs in any form outside a natural environment.\n\nInitial research on the theory establishes that concern regarding the effects of television on audiences stem from the unprecedented centrality of television in American culture. Gerbner posited that television as a mass medium of communication had formed into a common symbolic environment that bound diverse communities together, socializing people into standardized roles and behaviors. He thus compared the power of television to that of religion, stating television was to modern society what religion once was in earlier times. Thus, Gerbner's research focused on the larger meaning of heavy television consumption instead of the meaning behind specific messages.\n\nDeveloped by George Gerbner and Larry Gross in 1976, cultivation theory derived from several large-scale research projects in a comprehensive project entitled Cultural Indicators. The Cultural Indicators Project began as a stand-alone study commissioned by Lyndon B. Johnson for the National Commission on the Causes and Prevention of Violence. The commission was formed to address issues of violence in American culture; one specific area of interest for the Johnson administration was the effects of television violence on audiences. Gerbner subsequently began work on the federally funded Cultural Indicators Project at the Annenberg School of Communications. Congress then facilitated the creation of the Surgeon General's Scientific Advisory Committee on Television and Social Behavior in 1972. This new committee funded a number of studies on the effects of television: Gerbner's Cultural Indicators was one of those chosen. Through Gerbner's involvement with Cultural Indicators, he began to produce the Violence Index, a yearly content analysis of prime-time television that would show how violence was portrayed on television, from season to season. This allowed viewers the access to data regarding the frequency of violence in television shows but also raised questions regarding the accuracy of the study and the research hypotheses used. While the Violence Index received criticism, Gerbner and his team updated the Index to make sure that the data being produced was accurately composed, and addressed any criticisms posted. Gerbner's research found that violence was portrayed in prime time more frequently compared to violence in the real world.\n\nGerbner's project came about during an increasing divide between political conservatives and private commercial investors in the late 1960s. Performing the task of middleman, Gerbner and his team acted as impartial researchers, examining the effects and implications of television consumption without having any vested political or financial interest in its outcome. This standpoint allotted Gerbner access to a number of grants that continued to fund the Cultural Indicators Project throughout the 1970s.\n\nCultivation theory holds three core assumptions. The first assumption highlights the medium, the second, the audience, and the final assumption deals with the function of the medium on audiences and their ability to react to it. \n\n\n\nCultivation differential is the final step in a four-part process that looks at the effects of television on society. The first two steps include institutional process analysis and message system analysis. While cultivation theory focuses on macrosystems of television's influence on society as a whole, the first two steps deal with the creation of media messages and how these messages are portrayed in front of an audience.\n\nThe first part of this strategy is known as message system analysis, which has been used since 1967 to track the most stable and recurrent images in media content. Described by Gerbner, Gross, Morgan and Signorielli as a \"tool for making systematic, reliable, and cumulative observations about television content\", it not only tracks the perceived awareness of an individual about what he or she is viewing on television, but also represents the ongoing collective messages shown on television that shape larger community impressions over an extended period of time. Although information provided through media channels is not always reliable, message system analysis provides a method for characterizing the messages transmitted through television.\n\n\"Based on message system analyses, cultivation researchers develop hypotheses about what people would think about various aspects of \"reality\" if everything they knew about some issue or phenomenon were derived from television's dominant portrayals.\" This step entails creating a detailed content analysis on the consistent images, themes, and messages in any one particular show.\n\nAnother facet of the message-system analysis Gerbner discovered was something Griffin called \"equal violence, unequal risk.\" The research Gerbner conducted showed that the amount of violence portrayed in media stayed consistent, but the distribution of that violence was never equal. The children and the elderly, for example, are more common recipients of violence than young or middle-aged adults. Gerbner often discovered trends in violence toward minority groups, with African Americans and Hispanics being the recipients of violence more often than Caucasians; two other demographics that experienced similar inequality were women and \"blue-collar\" workers. Griffin wrote: \"The ironic result of this tendency is that the demographics shown, inaccurately, to be more in danger of violence than the rest are the demographics that will walk away from the media more afraid of violence.\n\nThe second part of this process focuses on people's feelings about their day-to-day lives to gain a larger understanding of how they perceive their realities. Findings from the message system analysis process guide researchers to formulate questions about social reality for the subjects of a study (in this case, television viewers).\n\nThe third part of this process brings Step 2 into action: asking audience participants questions about their understanding of their lives, and surveying television consumption levels. After questions are formulated based on social reality, Gerbner and Gross explain that, \"To each of these questions there is a \"television answer\", which is like the way things appear in the world of television, and another and different answer which is biased in the opposite direction, closer to the way things are in the observable world\". These questions are then used to evaluate detailed characteristics of the participants under evaluation. Measurement items include the breadth of television consumption, habitual characteristics relating to television, and the social, economic, and political makeup of the participants.\n\nThe final part of this process is Cultivation Differential. This is described as \"the percentage of difference in response between light and heavy television viewers.\" Certain measures are evaluated including, \"...sex, age, education, and other characteristics. The margin of heavy viewers over light viewers giving the \"television answers\" within and across groups is the \"cultivation differential\" indicating conceptions about social reality that viewing tends to cultivate.\" According to Griffin: \"Cultivation deals with how TV's content might affect viewers—particularly the viewers who spend lots of time glued to the tube. This is where most of the action takes place in the theory.\" Gerbner found that the effect of television on its viewers is not unidirectional, that the \"use of the term cultivation for television's contribution to conception of social reality... (does not) necessarily imply a one-way, monolithic process. The effects of a pervasive medium upon the composition and structure of the symbolic environment are subtle, complex, and intermingled with other influences. This perspective, therefore, assumes an interaction between the medium and its publics.\"\n\nThis cultivation differential is what Gerbner sought to discover in his research. Griffin defines this as \"the difference in the percentage giving the television answer within comparable groups of light and heavy TV viewers.\" Gerbner wanted to find how often individuals who watched a significant amount of television were influenced by what they saw in the media. Gerbner believed there was no before-television stage in a person's life. He alleged the media influences a person the moment they are born.\n\nThere are four attitudes that Gerbner focused on: (1) the chances of involvement with violence, (2) fear of walking alone at night, (3) perceived activity of police, and (4) general mistrust of people. When a person watches more television, that person is more likely to think he or she has a higher chance of being involved violence and is more mistrustful of others. See also the description of mean world syndrome below.\n\nGerbner's initial work specifically looked at the effects of television violence on American audiences. Violence underscored the larger part of Gerbner's work on cultivation theory, as he and his team speculated that violence had an effect on the way Americans perceive safety, crime, and general lawlessness in both their immediate communities and the greater population. Therefore, they measured dramatic violence, which Gerbner defines as \"the overt expression or threat of physical force as part of the plot.\" Gerbner's research also focuses on the impact of television viewing on high-use television users and their interpretation of the prevalence of crime on television versus real life. He argues that since a high percentage of television programs include violent or crime-related content, viewers who spend a lot of time watching television are inevitably exposed to high levels of crime and violence portrayed. Thus, increased exposure causes viewers to judge the world around them as more violent and crime-filled than it may actually be in reality.\n\nIn 1968, Gerbner conducted a survey to demonstrate this theory. From his results he placed television viewers into three categories; \"light viewers\" (less than 2 hours a day), \"medium viewers\" (2–4 hours a day) and \"heavy viewers\" (more than 4 hours a day). He found that heavy viewers held beliefs and opinions similar to those portrayed on television rather than ones based in real-world circumstances, which demonstrates the compound effect of media influence. Those whom Gerbner classified as heavy viewers experience shyness, loneliness, and depression much more than those who do not watch television or who do not watch television nearly as much. From this study, Gerbner also began working on what would become his Mean World Index, which subscribes to the notion that heavy consumption of violence-related television content leads the viewer to believe the world is more dangerous than it actually is.\n\n\"In most of the surveys Gerbner conducted, the results reveal a small but statistically significant relationship between TV consumption and fear about becoming the victim of a crime. The question at the start of the chapter is illustrative: Those with light viewing habits predict their weekly odds of being a victim are 1 out of 100; those with heavy viewing habits fear the risk 1 out of 10. Actual crime statistics indicate that 1 out of 10,000 is more realistic.\"\n\nSupporting this finding is a survey done with college students that showed a significant correlation between the attention paid to local crime and fear. This survey also showed a significant correlation between fears of crime and violence and the number of times the respondents viewed television per week.\n\nLocal television news also plays a role in influencing viewers' perception of high criminal activity due to events reported on the news. While news agencies boast their allegiance to report factual, timely news, they rely \"heavily on sensational coverage of crime and other mayhem with particular emphasis on homicide and violence\" (Hamilton, 1998; Klite, Bardwell, & Salzman, 1995, 1997). Thus, viewers are more likely to develop a heightened sense of fear of crime because of the nature of information spread by local news outlets.\n\n\"People with heavy viewing habits believe that 5 percent of society is involved in law enforcement. Their video world is peopled with police officers, judges, and government agents. People with light viewing habits estimates a more realistic 1 percent.\"\n\n\"Those with heavy viewing habits are suspicious of other people's motives. They subscribe to statements that warn people to expect the worst.\" These people would be likely to believe statements such as: \"Most people are just looking out for themselves\"; \"In dealing with others, you can't be too careful\"; and \"Do unto others before they do unto You.\" This mindset is what Griffin calls the mean world syndrome.\n\nGerbner's original analysis shows that heavy viewers are much more likely to be afraid of walking alone at night. The reluctance of these individuals has also been seen on a more global scale because heavy viewers in the United States are much more likely to believe they, as a nation, should stay out of world affairs.\n\n\"Mainstreaming is the blurring, blending, and bending process by which heavy TV viewers from disparate groups develop a common outlook on the world through constant exposure to the same images and labels on TV.\" Mainstreaming through television plays a central role in society. There are many people that do not have access to television, but the reach of television is so expansive that it has become the primary channel responsible for shaping what is mainstream in our culture. The mainstream is more than the sum of all cross-currents and sub-currents; it represents the broadest range of shared meanings and assumptions in the most general, functional and stable way. Heavy television viewing may override individual differences and perspectives, creating more of an American (and increasingly global) \"melting pot\" of social, cultural and political ideologies.\n\nGerbner found that ideas and opinions commonly held by heavy viewers as a result of mainstreaming have to do with politics and economics. According to Griffin, Gerbner's research led to the conclusion that heavy viewers tend to label themselves as middle class citizens who are politically moderate. Gerbner also found people who labeled themselves as either liberal or conservative among those who mainly watched TV occasionally. However, he also found that \"cultural indicators noted that their positions on social issues are decidedly conservative.\"\n\nResonance occurs when things viewed on television are congruent with the actual lived realities of viewers. Gerbner writes that this provides a double dose of messages that resonate and amplify cultivation. Additionally, Gerbner et al. defines \"resonance\" as the similarity between everyday reality and television narratives. The example they give is of minority groups whose fictional television character is stereotypically more frequently victimized on television, creating an exaggerated perception of violence for individuals who watch more television Griffin sums it up nicely, when he states, \"Gerbner claimed that other heavy viewers grow more apprehensive through the process of resonance.\" Furthermore, Gerbner said, \"The congruence of the television world and real-life circumstances may 'resonate' and lead to markedly amplified cultivation patterns.\" This cultivation could have a large effect on our society if these viewers insist on receiving more security from the government, their work place, family, friends, etc. Resonance seeks to explain why heavy TV viewers often have an amplified vigilance about the world.\n\nAs either mainstreaming or resonance, cultivation produces first-order or second-order effects. First-order effects refers to the learning of facts, while second-order effects involve \"hypotheses about more general issues and assumptions\" that people make about their environments.\n\nGerbner et al. developed the Mean World Index. The Mean World Index finds that long-term exposure to television in which violence is frequent cultivates the image of a mean and dangerous world. Viewers who consumed television at a higher rate believed that greater protection by law enforcement is needed and reported that most people \"cannot be trusted\" and are \"just looking out for themselves\". The Mean World Index consists of three statements:\n\n\nDramatic violence is the \"overt expression or serious threat of physical force as part of the plot.\" Shows such as \"\" and \"\" use murder to frame each episode of their shows, thus underscoring the presence of dramatic and gratuitous violence. The idea of dramatic violence underscores the relationship between fear and entertainment. Though death is being used as a plot point, it also functions to cultivate a particular image of looming violence.\n\nHeavy viewers are individuals who watch at least four hours of television a day, however Nielsen notes that heavy viewers are now defined as those that watch more than 11 hours of television a day. Heavy viewers are consistently characterized as being more susceptible to the images and messages on television. They also rely on television more to cultivate their perceptions of the real world. In a recent study done on the cultivation effects of reality television, an Indiana University study found that young girls who regularly watched the MTV hit \"Teen Mom\" had an unrealistic view of teen pregnancy.\n\nSeveral cognitive mechanisms that explain cultivation effects have been put forth by Shrum (1995; 1996; 1997). Shrum's availability heuristic explanation suggests that heavy viewers tend to have more frequent, recent, and vivid instances of television reality on the \"top of the head\" (i.e., available and accessible) when surveyors ask them questions, resulting in more responses that relate to television viewing and also speedier responses. Another mechanism that might explain the cultivation phenomenon is a cognitive-narrative mechanism. Previous research suggests that the realism of television narratives in combination with individual-level \"transportability\", or the ability to adopt a less critical stance toward a narrative, might facilitate cultivation effects (e.g., Bilandzic & Busselle, 2008).\n\nThe magic bullet theory (also known as the hypodermic-syringe model, transmission-belt model, or hypodermic needle model) is a linear model of communication. This theory talks about \"the audiences directly influenced by the mass media\" and \"the media's power on the audiences\".\n\nThe \"magic bullet\" theory graphically assumes that the media's message is a bullet fired from the \"media gun\" into the viewer's \"head\" (1995). Similarly, the \"hypodermic needle model\" uses the same idea of direct \"injection.\" It suggests that the media delivers its messages straight into the passive audience's mind (Croteau, Hoynes 1997). This passive audience is immediately affected by these messages.\n\nTelevision reality describes the effects television viewing has on heavy viewers. Cultivation theory research seems to indicate that heavy television viewing can result in the creation of a television reality, which is a set of facts and beliefs based on television content rather than actual facts. Generally, the beliefs of heavy television viewers about the real world are consistent with the repetitive and emphasized images and themes presented on television. As such, heavy viewing cultivates a television-shaped view of the world.\n\nWhile viewers might differ in their demographic characteristics, the amount of television viewing can make a difference in terms of their conceptions of social reality. For instance, people's different degrees of sex-role stereotypes can be traced back to the independent contribution of TV viewing just like others such as sex, age, class, and education. Television viewing time is a main element of creating television reality to the audiences or the viewers. According to Gerbner's research, the more time spent 'living' in the world of television, the more likely people are to report perceptions of social reality which can be traced to television's most persistent representations of life and society.\n\nSince the 1960s, communication scholars have examined television's contributions to viewers' perceptions of a wide variety of topics and issues. Little effort has been made to investigate the influence of television on perceptions of social reality among adolescents, particularly in the areas of sexism, sex roles, mean world, and television reality.\n\nThe work of several researchers support the concept of television reality as a consequence of heavy viewing. According to Wyer and Budesheim's research, television messages or information, even when they are not necessarily considered truthful, can still be used in the process of constructing social judgments. Furthermore, indicted invalid information may still be used in subsequent audience's judgments.\n\nAlthough Gerbner's research focused on violence on TV this theory can be applied to a variety of different situations. Many other theorists have done studies related to the cultivation theory which incorporated different messages than Gerbner's original intent. This research has been conducted in order to defeat two criticisms of the theory; its breadth and lumping of genres.\n\n\"There was a positive relationship between childhood television viewing levels and the social reality beliefs in young adulthood. The results of this study suggest that television viewed during childhood may affect the social reality beliefs a person holds as an adult.\" \"Accordingly, the present study focuses on the potential effect of childhood television viewing on social reality beliefs during adulthood. The focus of the present study will be childhood exposure to television genres that tend to be violent. Given that it has been argued and demonstrated that measuring exposure to violent content is a more appropriate method for cultivation analyses than measuring overall television exposure levels.\"\n\nAnother longitudinal study shows how television exposure is associated with overall self-esteem in children. Nicole Martins and Kristen Harrison measured the amount of television viewing in elementary school children and their overall level of self-esteem (not related to perceptions about the body) after television exposure over time. They found that higher levels of television viewing predicted lower self-esteem for White girls, Black girls, and Black boys, but higher self-esteem for White boys. This relationship indicates that exposure to portrayals of White males on television, which tend to be positive, and those of Black men and women and White women which tend to be negative, shape the way children understand their own identities.\n\nInternational cultivation analysis attempts to answer the question of whether the medium or the system is the message. Gerbner \"et al.\" found that countries where the television programs were less repetitive and homogeneous than the United States produced less predictable and consistent results. The variety of television content is also an important factor. Increased diversity and balance within television channels or programs leads viewers to report similar preferences. Furthermore, importing television programs internationally can elicit variable responses depending on the cultural context and the type of television program. For example, exposure of US television programs to Korean females portrayed a liberal perspective of gender roles and family. However, for the Korean male television viewers, US programs brought out increased hostility and protection of Korean culture. Another study showed that Australian students who watched US television programs (especially adventure and crime shows) were more likely to view Australia as dangerous; however, they didn't transfer this danger to America, even though they were watching US television programs. A study conducted by Minnebo and Eggermont in 2007 found that heavy television viewers, over the age of 30, in Belgium \"were more likely to believe that most young people are substance users.\"\n\nIn order to accurately survey and represent findings from cultivation theory research, the duration of television exposure has become a topic for further research. It's stated that \"cultivation effect only occurs after long-term, cumulative exposure to stable patterns of content on television.\" However, research that tracks long-term media exposure is very rare and if conducted, must be thoroughly planned out in order to secure dependable results. In a study conducted in 2009, participants were asked to list the number of \"Grey's Anatomy\" episodes they had viewed in prior and current seasons. The purpose of the study was to gain a perspective of how viewers see doctors based on impressions from television. Findings from the study showed a positive association with \"Grey's Anatomy\"s portrayal with real-world doctors' acts of courage. The finding wasn't surprising, as many episodes within \"Grey's Anatomy\" often show doctors as courageous, either by employing a detailed view of an operation, or crediting doctors for their empathy in specific patient scenarios. Gerbner and colleagues argue that cultivation effects span total television viewing, not genre- or program-specific viewing (Gerbner et al., 2002). In a study conducted by Jonathan Cohen and Gabriel Weimann, they found that cultivation through television is more prevalent within the age group of older teenagers and young adults, thus supporting the claim that a cumulative exposure to television throughout a viewer's life has a steady impact on their cultivation longevity.\n\nA study conducted by Hammermeister, Brock, Winterstein, and Page compares the psychosocial health of viewers that reported no television use, viewers who followed the American Academy of Pediatrics (AAP) suggested consumption of up to 2 hours of television per day, and viewers with high exposure to television. They surveyed 430 participants within the United States implemented via survey method. They found that there was more of an impact on the psychosocial health of women who participated in the study and, \"revealed that all the psychosocial variables examined in this study contributed significantly to the one function equation with depression, hopelessness, self-esteem, and weight satisfaction being the strongest discriminators\" (Hammermeister, Brock, Winterstein, Page, 260). Findings also exposed the similarity in psychosocial health data between participants who watched up to 2 hours of television per day and participants who opt out of television consumption all together.\n\nInterTV is a concept forecasting the inevitable melding of television and online media. Described by Shanahan and Morgan as television's \"convergence\" with computers, they argue that computers will essentially act as an extension of television through the creation of related websites and online news articles covered within the traditional television journalism realm. Additionally, television programming will also suffer a shift to an online platform in result of streaming services such as Netflix and Hulu. According to Shanahan and Morgan, this may not be the worst thing, as it allows advertisers a direct source in which they can gather information regarding viewers. They state that, \"within a market filled with individual interests, desires and the channels to serve them, such a data-gathering enterprise would still allow advertisers to assemble mass audiences from the fragmented media systems\". In a sense, this would allow viewers some way to control the content they are fed through the online platform. While advertisers are infringing on viewer information, the correlated result requires them to shift any programming or storyline content to the satisfaction of the viewer. This poses a challenging example in terms of extending the impact of cultivation theory, instead empowering the viewer to cultivate their own television use experience.\n\nKathleen Beullens, Keith Roe, and Jan Van den Bulck conducted research relating to alcohol consumption in music videos. The research revealed that high exposure to music videos develops an unrealistic perception of alcohol consumption. Musicians in these videos endorse alcohol in their songs and create a false reality about alcohol and its effects.\"\n\nResearch conducted by Dmitri Williams draws the comparison of the effects of television to interactive video games. He argues that while the parameters and basic content of the game developed is through the employment of game developers, creators and designers, the role of the \"other player\" within the game is also essential in the progression of the story within the video game. Essentially, an interactive game allows players to build relationships with others, and thus is more dynamic and unpredictable as compared to traditional television. Williams attempts to research the question of whether video games are as influential as television from a cultivation theory standpoint. Does it impact our social reality? In the field study, participants were asked to play a MMORPG game, one in which participants interacted with other players in real time. Crime measures divided into four categories were used to evaluate the correlation between the research hypotheses and cultivation theory. The study proved a strong correlation between the impact of cultivation on participants and the players of the MMORPG game.\n\nSee also Behm-Morawitz and Ta study below, under \"Race and ethnicity\".\n\nSara Baker Netzley conducted research in a similar fashion to Gerbner in the way that homosexuals were depicted on television. This study found that there was an extremely high level of sexual activity in comparison to the amount of homosexual characters that appeared on television. This has led those who are heavy television consumers to believe that the gay community is extremely sexual. Much like the idea of a mean and scary world it gives people a parallel idea of an extremely sexualized gay community.\"\n\nIn a study conducted by Jerel Calzo and Monique Ward, they first begin by analyzing recent research conducted on the portrayal of gay and lesbian characters on television. While growth in the representation of gay and lesbian characters has continued to grow, they found that most television shows frame gay and lesbian characters in a manner that reinforces homosexual stereotypes. Diving into discussion, they even use examples such as \"Ellen\" and \"Will & Grace\", describing the storyline content as reinforcing \"stereotypes by portraying these characters as lacking stable relationships, as being preoccupied with their sexuality (or not sexual at all), and by perpetuating the perception of gay and lesbian people as laughable, one-dimensional figures (Cooper, 2003; Fouts & Inch, 2005; Herman, 2005)\". Their findings confirmed that media genres played an important role in the attitudes developed regarding homosexuality. They also were surprised by the finding that prior prime-time shows, which are no longer on air, reinforced a larger magnitude of acceptance within the LGBTQ realm. They then suggested that because genre played a large impact in the perception that viewers gained while watching certain television shows, more research should be designated towards, \"more genre-driven effects analyses\".\n\nBeverly Roskos-Ewoldsen, John Davies and David Roskos-Ewoldsen posit that perceptions of women are integrated in a rather stereotypical fashion compared to portrayals of men on television. They state that, \"men are characters in TV shows at about a 2 to 1 ratio to women(Gerbner et al., 2002)\". Viewers who consume more television usually also have more sexist views of women (Gerbner et al., 2002; Morgan, 1990). Research has also shown that women are more likely to be portrayed as victims on television than men.\n\nAlexander Sink and Dana Mastro studied women and gender depictions on American primetime television. Although women are often perceived to have better representation on television in recent years, these researchers show that this is not necessarily the case. Women are significantly proportionally underrepresented on primetime television, making up only 39% of characters despite the fact that women make up 50.9% of the population in the US. Men were also portrayed as more dominant than women, and although men were more often objectified, women were consistently portrayed as hyperfeminized and hypersexualized. Fewer older women appeared during primetime compared to men, and were often shown to be less competent than older male characters.\n\nA study by Bradley J. Bond and Kristin L. Drogos examined the relationship between exposure to the television program \"Jersey Shore\" and sexual attitudes and behavior in college-aged adults. They found a positive relationship between time spent watching \"Jersey Shore\" and increased sexual permissiveness. This effect was found to be stronger in the younger participants than older participants, and held true even when the researchers controlled for other influences on participants' sexual attitudes such as religious beliefs and parents' attitudes. This higher level of sexually permissive behavior and attitudes was not a result of higher overall exposure to television, but to higher exposure to \"Jersey Shore\", a highly sexualized program, specifically.\n\nMeghan S. Sanders and Srividya Ramasubramanian studied perceptions which African American media consumers hold about fictional characters portrayed in film and television. They found that, while study participants tended to view all African American characters positively, social class, rather than race or ethnicity, mattered more in perceptions about the warmth and competence of a character. Their study suggests that the race and ethnicity of media consumers need to be taken into account in cultivation studies because media consumers with different backgrounds likely perceive media portrayals and their faithfulness to reality differently.\n\nA study by Elizabeth Behm-Morawitz and David Ta examined the cultivation effects of video games on White students' perceptions of Black and Asian individuals. While no significant effects were found for perceptions of Asian individuals, researchers found that increased time spent playing video games, no matter what genre, held less positive views of Black people. They also found that real-life interaction with Black individuals did not change this effect. Behm-Morawitz and Ta suggest that the stable, negative racial and ethnic stereotypes portrayed in video game narratives of any genre impact real-world beliefs in spite of more varied real-life interaction with racial and ethnic minorities.\n\nDiana C. Mutz and Lilach Nir conducted a study of how fictional television narratives can influence viewers' policy preferences and positive or negative attitudes regarding the justice system in the real world. They found that positive portrayals of the criminal justice system were associated with more positive views toward the system in real life, whereas negative television portrayals were associated with viewers feeling that the criminal justice system often works unfairly. Furthermore, researchers found that these attitudes did influence viewers' policy preferences concerning the criminal justice system in real life.\n\nA study by Anita Atwell Seate and Dana Mastro studied news coverage of immigration and its relationship with immigration policy preferences and negative attitudes about immigrants. They found that exposure to negative messages about immigrants in the news influenced anxious feelings towards the outgroup (i.e. immigrants), particularly when the news showed an example of a member of this outgroup on the program. This exposure did not necessarily influence immigration policy preferences, but long-term exposure to messages of this kind can affect policy preferences.\n\nKaterina-Eva Matsa explores cultivation effects through her thesis on television's impact on political engagement in Greece. She describes the role of satirical television within the cultural realm in Greece and how this form of television engrains the perception that Greek political institutions are corrupt, thus negatively influencing the public's overall opinion of politics in Greece.\n\nMichael Morgan, James Shanahan, and Nancy Signorielli conceptualize applications of cultivation theory to the study of new media. They note that media technology has never been static, and that there will always be new forms of media. However, in the present, older methods for cultivation analysis may have to move away from counting hours of television viewed, and take up a big data approach. These authors argue that, although many were skeptical that cultivation theory would be applicable with the increasing importance of new media, these media still use narrative, and since those narratives affect us, cultivation theory is still relevant for new media.\n\nStephen M. Croucher applies cultivation theory to his theory of social media and its effects on immigrant cultural adaptation. He theorizes that immigrants who use dominant social media while they are still in the process of adapting to their new culture will develop perceptions about their host society through the use of this media. He believes that this cultivation effect will also impact the way immigrants interact with host country natives in offline interactions.\n\nCultivation theory attempts to predict that media viewing has an effect on the values and beliefs that people have and the things they believe are \"reality\". A study conducted by David Atkin from the University of Connecticut revealed insights about television viewing of sports and the values of its viewers. An hypothesis that was researched stated \"Level of agreement with sports-related values (i.e., being physically fit, athletic, and active) is positively related to participation in sports-related media and leisure activities\" (Atkin 324). Studies were conducted and research was presented and the conclusion was that the hypothesis was correct. The study specifically found that \"those for whom being physically fit, being athletic and being active are important also engage in more sports media\" (Atkin). In this instance, cultivation theory is present because heavier exposure is related to greater agreement with the values that are presented.\n\nAnother related study felt that attendance at live and mediated sporting events might cultivate audience values that are consistent with the value of sports.\n\nIn an article titled \"Sport in Society: Cultures, Commerce, Media and Politics\", discussion was started about sports and cultivation theory. Cultivation theory can be applicable to many different aspects of society. The research shared \"the line of research has found that, as exposure to television increases, an individual's beliefs and opinions of the real-world become more similar to that of the television world.\" This statement proves to be support of the previous hypothesis and is support for cultivation theory being present in the sports world. If someone engages in sports media, their beliefs of being physically fit and active will then become more and more similar to the beliefs of those they are watching and listening to in the sports media.\n\nCultivation theory and sports are just beginning to be studied. There are many more aspects that are being studied. One other aspect is the difference between those who participate in sporting events and those who watch them. Another part of cultivation theory can be explained by people being less active, because of what they watch on television and the rise in obesity levels. Because people don't see a lot of active people on television, their \"reality\" is that people no longer need to be active 30 or so minutes per day.\n\nCultivation theory can be applied to sports as it can be applied to many other areas of media. A prime example of this is America's shift toward so-called \"violent sports\". A survey taken in 98 show that only 67% of American teenagers considered themselves baseball fans, compare that to football which is 78%. Just as we consume violent TV shows we also love the more violent sports. This 98 study relates perfectly to  current TV ratings, as football has by far the most hours watched since 2005 at 111.9 million hours.  Leo W. Jeffres, Jae-Won Lee, and Kimberly A. Neuendorf say that \"new \"media logic\" that favors more violent, action-oriented sports, while slower-paced sports have been relegated to secondary status in the United States.\"\n\nPast cultivation theory research supports the idea that the more someone watches television, the more that individual believes that the television content is like real world reality. This is likely to be found true when it comes to televised violence. But with new research emerging we now know that this cultivation effect is not likely to arise among individuals who watch sports. For example, an individual who happens to watch a lot of football is not going to view the world as a frightening place because of the violence that goes on during games.\n\nAlthough there was no true correlation between the cultivation theory and sports, there has been research done on the level of violence in sports content and the effects it has on viewers. Results found by Raney and Depalma (2006) found that individuals were less likely to report being in a positive mood after watching violent sports content and its effect on viewers (Wanta 2013).\n\nA number of scholars have critiqued Gerbner's assertions about cultivation theory, particularly its intentions and its scope. One critique of the theory analyzes the objective of the theory. Communications professor Jennings Bryant posits that cultivation research focuses more on the effects rather than who or what is being influenced. Bryant goes on to assert that the research to date has more to do with the \"whys\" and \"hows\" of a theory as opposed to gathering normative data as to the \"whats\", \"whos\", and \"wheres\".\n\nCritics have also faulted the logical consistency of cultivation analysis, noting that the methods employed by cultivation analysis researchers do not match the conceptual reach of the theory. The research supporting this theory uses social scientific methods to address questions related to the humanities. Another possibility is that the relationship between TV viewing and fear of crime is like the relationship between a runny nose and a sore throat. Neither one causes the other—they are both caused by something else.\". Many also question the breadth of Gerbner's research. When using the Cultural Indicators strategy, Gerbner separated his research into three parts. The second part focused on the effects of media when looking at gender, race/ethnicity, and occupation. Michael Hughes writes: \"it does not seem reasonable that these three variables exhaust the possibilities of variables available…which may be responsible for spurious relationships between television watching and the dependent variables in the Gerbner et al. analysis.\" Also, the variables Gerbner did choose can also vary by the amount of time a person has available to watch TV.\n\nAnother critique comes from Daniel Chandler: \"those who live in high-crime areas are more likely to stay at home and watch television and also to believe that they have a greater chance of being attacked than are those in low-crime areas.\" He claims as well, \"when the viewer has some direct lived experience of the subject matter this may tend to reduce any cultivation effect.\" While television does have some effect on how we perceive the world around us, Gerbner's study does not consider the lived experiences of those that do inhabit high crime areas.\n\nGerbner is also criticized for his lumping of all forms of violence. Chandler argues, \"different genres—even different programmes—contribute to the shaping of different realities, but cultivation analysis assumes too much homogeneity in television programmes\". This point is addressed by Horace Newcomb (1978) who argues that violence is not presented as uniformly on television as the theory assumes; therefore, television cannot be responsible for cultivating the same sense of reality for all viewers. When considering different programs that are on television, it makes sense that scholars would criticize Gerbner's lack of categories. For example, Saturday morning cartoon \"play\" violence is in combination with a murder on \"Law and Order\". This does not seem to logically fuse together. Morgan and Shanahan understand this dispute, but they contend \"that people (especially heavy viewers) do not watch isolated genres only, and that any 'impact' of individual program types should be considered in the context of the overall viewing experience\". A study by Karyn Riddle attempts to address this critique, however, by combining heuristic processing models with cultivation theory to examine how not just exposure to violence in television, but also how vividly it is portrayed impacts cultivation effects. She found that there was an interaction effect for portrayals which were vivid and viewed frequently. In this case, real world beliefs were significantly affected.\n\nCultivation analysis has also been criticized by humanists for examining such a large cultural question. Because the theory discusses cultural effects, many humanists feel offended, thinking that their field has been misinterpreted. Horace Newcomb (1978) writes \"More than any other research effort in the area of television studies the work of Gerbner and Gross and their associates sits squarely at the juncture of the social sciences and the humanities.\"\n\nThe theory has also received criticism for ignoring other issues such as the perceived realism of the televised content, which could be essential in explaining people's understanding of reality. Wilson, Martins, & Markse (2005) argue that attention to television might be more important to cultivating perceptions than only the amount of television viewing. In addition, C. R. Berger (2005) writes that because the theory ignores cognitive processes, such as attention or rational thinking style, it is less useful than desired.\n\nThe correlation between cultivation effects and perceived reality have been criticized due to the inconsistent findings from various research conducted on the subject. Hawkins and Pingree (1980) found that participants that reported a lower perceived reality scoring actually showed a stronger cultivation impact. Potter (1986) found that, \"different dimensions and levels of perceived reality were associated with different magnitudes of cultivation effects\". Additionally, a study conducted by Shrum, Wyer and O'Guinn (1994) showed a zero percentage correlation between perceived reality and cultivation effects.\n\nCultivation analysis has been criticized that its claims are not always useful in explaining the phenomenon of interest: how people see the world. Some also argue that violence is not presented as uniformly on television as the theory assumes, so television cannot be reliably responsible for cultivating the same sense of reality for all viewers. In addition, cultivation analysis is criticized for ignoring other issues such as the perceived realism of the televised content, which might be critical in explaining people's understanding of reality. Attention to television might be more important to cultivating perceptions than simply the amount of television viewing, so the fact that the cultivation analysis theory seems to ignore cognition such as attention or rational thinking style deems it to be less useful.\n\n"}
{"id": "13698825", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13698825", "title": "Dialog act", "text": "Dialog act\n\nIn linguistics and in particular in natural language understanding, a dialog act is an utterance, in the context of a conversational dialog, that serves a function in the dialog. Types of dialog acts include a question, a statement, or a request for action. Dialog acts are a type of speech act. \n\nDialog act recognition, also known as spoken utterance classification, is an important part of spoken language understanding. AI inference models or statistical models are used to recognize and classify dialog acts.\n\nA dialog system typically includes a taxonomy of dialog types or \"tags\" that classify the different functions dialog acts can play. One study had 42 types of dialog act in their taxonomy. Examples of types in this study include \"STATEMENT\", \"OPINION\", \"AGREEMENT/ACCEPT\", and \"YES-NO-QUESTION\". \n\nThe research on dialog acts have increased since 1999, after spoken dialog systems became commercial reality.\n"}
{"id": "32698701", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32698701", "title": "Ding language", "text": "Ding language\n\nDing (also called \"Di\" or \"Dzing\") is a Bantu language that is spoken in the Democratic Republic of Congo.\n\nMaho (2009) considers the following to be distinct languages closely related to Ding:\n(See Boma–Dzing languages.) \n\nOnly Ngul, which includes Ngwi, has an ISO code.\n"}
{"id": "31466209", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31466209", "title": "Focus on form", "text": "Focus on form\n\nFocus on form (FonF) is an approach to language education in which learners are made aware of the grammatical form of language features that they are already able to use communicatively. It is contrasted with \"focus on forms\", which is limited solely to the explicit focus on language features, and \"focus on meaning\", which is limited to focus on meaning with no attention paid to form at all. For a teaching intervention to qualify as \"focus on form\" and not as \"focus on forms\", the learner must be aware of the meaning and use of the language features before the form is brought to their attention. \"Focus on form\" was proposed by Michael Long in 1988.\n\nThe concept of \"focus on form\" was motivated by the lack of support for the efficacy of \"focus on forms\" on the one hand, and clear advantages demonstrated by instructed language learning over uninstructed learning on the other. The research conflicting with \"focus on forms\" has been wide-ranging; learners typically acquire language features in sequences, not all at once, and most of the stages the learners' interlanguages pass through will exhibit non-native-like language forms. Furthermore, the progression of these stages is not clean; learners may use language features correctly in some situations but not in others, or they may exhibit U-shaped learning, in which native-like use may temporarily revert to non-native-like use. None of these findings sit well with the idea that students will learn exactly what you teach them, when you teach it. \n\nIn a review of the literature comparing instructed with uninstructed language learning, Long found a clear advantage for instructed learning in both the rate of learning and the ultimate level reached. An important finding that supported Long's view came from French language immersion programs in Canada; even after students had years of meaning-focused lessons filled with comprehensible input, their spoken language remained far from native-like, with many grammatical errors. This is despite the fact that they could speak fluently and had native-like listening abilities.\n\n"}
{"id": "3990062", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3990062", "title": "Folk linguistics", "text": "Folk linguistics\n\nFolk linguistics is the amateur study of linguistics. The term is often used as a pejorative.\n\nThe linguist Ray Jackendoff points out that applying folk linguistics to education can be potentially damaging to the attainment of students who speak less standard dialects. Characterising different speech as \"good\" or \"bad\" can have a serious effect.\n\nThe term \"folk linguistics\" can also refer to ideological ideas of language, such as nationalist views of language. The scientific understanding of language by linguists often contradicts that of native speakers.\n\nJackendoff (2003) cites the following statements as typical examples of folk-linguistic beliefs.\n\n\nOther beliefs may include:\n\na. Ray Jackendoff, \n\nb. Linguistic Purism in Germany - Folk Linguistics via the Internet Archive\n"}
{"id": "12204550", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12204550", "title": "Generally recognized as safe and effective", "text": "Generally recognized as safe and effective\n\nGenerally recognized as safe and effective (abbreviated as GRASE, GRAS/E, or GRAS/GRAE) is designation for certain old drugs that do not require prior approval from the U.S. Food and Drug Administration in order to enter the United States marketplace because they are generally recognized as safe and effective by medical professionals.\n\nThe Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act defines a \"new drug\", which requires prior approval, as any drug \"the composition of which is such that such drug is not generally recognized, among experts qualified by scientific training and experience to evaluate the safety and effectiveness of drugs, as safe and effective for use under the conditions prescribed, recommended, or suggested in the labeling.\"\n\nIt is important to emphasize that \"safe and effective\" is always conditional on following the directions. For example, aspirin can be lethal when taken in large amounts but is approved to be GRAS/E by FDA for over-the-counter use as directed.\n\nFDA has acknowledged the possible existence of drugs that could be considered GRAS/E that they have not found to be GRAS/E yet. As FDA stated in its 2006 Guidance on Marketed Unapproved drugs: \"A product would not be considered a new drug if it is generally recognized as safe and effective (GRAS/GRAE) and has been used to a material extent and for a material time… As mentioned above, the Agency believes it is not likely that any currently marketed prescription drug product is grandfathered or is otherwise not a new drug. However, the Agency recognizes that it is at least theoretically possible.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "1661398", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1661398", "title": "H. Leivick", "text": "H. Leivick\n\nH. Leivick (pen name of Leivick Halpern, December 25, 1888 – December 23, 1962) was a Yiddish language writer, known for his 1921 \"dramatic poem in eight scenes\" \"The Golem\". He also wrote many highly political, realistic plays, including \"Shop.\" He adopted the pen name of Leivick to avoid being confused with Moyshe-Leyb Halpern, another prominent Yiddish poet.\n\nLeivick was born in Chervyen, Belarus, the oldest of nine children. His father was a Yiddish instructor for young servants. Leivick was raised in a traditional Jewish household and attended a yeshiva for several years, an experience he thoroughly disliked and depicted in his dramatic poem \"Chains of the Messiah.\" Leivick joined the Jewish Bund before or during the 1905 Russian Revolution. The influence of the organization helped to convince Leivick to become secular and to focus his writing on Yiddish rather than Hebrew.\n\nIn 1906 Leivick was arrested by Russian authorities for distributing revolutionary literature. He refused any legal assistance during his trial and delivered a speech denouncing the government instead:\n\nI will not defend myself. Everything that I have done I did in full consciousness. I am a member of the Jewish revolutionary party, the Bund, and I will do everything in my power to overthrow the tsarist autocracy, its bloody henchmen, and you as well.\n\nLeivick, then only eighteen, was sentenced to four years of forced labor and permanent exile to Siberia. His prison years were spent in St. Petersburg, Moscow and Minsk, where he wrote \"Chains of the Messiah.\" In March 1912 he was marched to Siberia on foot, a journey that lasted more than four months. Leivick was eventually smuggled out of Siberia with the assistance of Jewish revolutionaries in America and sailed to America in the summer of 1913.\n\nBy the early 1920s, Leivick was writing poetry and drama for several Yiddish dailies, including the Communist \"Morgen Freiheit\". From 1936 to his death, he wrote regularly for \"Der Tog\". He was also active as an editor, working with fellow writer Joseph Opatoshu on an exhaustive series of Yiddish anthologies. Leivick was involved with \"Di Yunge\", a group of avant-garde American-Yiddish poets who praised Yiddish for its artistic and aesthetic possibilities, not merely a conduit for disseminating radical politics to the immigrant masses. \"Di Yunge\" included such notable personalities as Moyshe-Leyb Halpern and Mani Leib. Leivick spent most of his life employed as a wallpaper-hanger while simultaneously pursuing his writing.\n\nLeivick's style was neo-Romantic and marked by a deep apocalyptic pessimism combined with an almost naive interest and yearning for the mystical and messianic, themes that continually appeared in his writing, particularly \"The Golem,\" which depicted the Jewish Messiah and Jesus Christ as representatives of a peaceful redemption, only to be chased away by the Maharal of Prague and his violent Golem, who ultimately rampaged through the streets of Prague injuring large numbers of people, both Jews and Christians. In \"The Golem,\" Leivick simultaneously condemned any attempts to heal the world through violence, but also highlighted the fallibility and impotence of all would-be Messiahs. The poem was widely interpreted as a thinly veiled critique of the Bolshevik Revolution and caused Leivick to be criticized by the Soviet Union and Communist Yiddishists. Leivick stopped writing for the Communist papers in 1929 following their public support for the Arab riots in Palestine and broke off all connections with the left following the Molotov-Ribbentrop Pact of 1939.\n\nLeivick's writing also incorporated his deep childhood wounds from his abusive father and unpleasant experiences with Orthodox Judaism, as well as his years of imprisonment. Leivick's own suffering strongly influenced that of his poetic characters', taking on near-mythic proportions and requiring similarly grandiose acts of redemption. Many of his poems dealt with themes of illness or exile, and his more realistic works were often set in sweatshops, like the ones Leivick had worked in as a new immigrant in Philadelphia. Leivick's work strongly resonated with the Yiddish public and helped him become one of the most prominent Yiddish poets in the world.\n\nThe Leyvik House, named after H. Leivick, is a three-story building in Tel Aviv founded in 1970. It serves as the offices for the Association of Yiddish Writers and Journalists in Israel, the H. Leyvik Publishing House, and the Israeli Center for Yiddish Culture.\n\n"}
{"id": "17957517", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17957517", "title": "Hafta", "text": "Hafta\n\nHafta (Persian: هفته) is the Persian word for week and is also used as a loanword in Hindi, Sylheti, Urdu and Turkish. A week has seven days, and is possible that it could be from Hepta, for seven.\n\nHafta (Devanagari: हफ़्ता) is also slang for the protection money collected periodically by gangsters and corrupt policemen. In case of policemen, however even bribes paid are often quoted as giving \"hafta.\" This meaning seems to have gained its popularity because of its usage as part of Bombay Hindi. It is named so because the most common collection period is one week. The practice is highly prevalent in India and a refusal to pay up has its consequences.\n\n\"Hafta\" has been used in the title of low-budget action movies in Bollywood. Some of the examples include movies like \"Hafta Vasuli\" (1998), \"Hafta Bandh\" (1991).\n"}
{"id": "28300244", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28300244", "title": "Hans Keilson", "text": "Hans Keilson\n\nHans Alex Keilson (; 12 December 1909 – 31 May 2011) was a Jewish German/Dutch novelist, poet, psychoanalyst, and child psychologist. He was best known for his novels set during the Second World War, during which he was an active member of the Dutch resistance.\n\nKeilson, having worked with traumatized orphans, mainly wrote about traumas induced by the war. His first novel was published in 1934, but most of his works were published after the war. In 2010, \"The New York Times\" 's Francine Prose described Keilson as \"one of the world's greatest writers\", notably honouring Keilson's achievements in the year in which he turned 101 years old.\n\nFrom 1928 to 1934, Keilson studied pharmacology in Berlin, but due to the Nazi law prohibiting Jews from employment, Keilson was employed as a professional gym teacher in Jewish private schools, and occasionally made money as a musician. During this period, Keilson also met his first wife, graphologist Gertrud Manz (1901).\nIn 1936, the couple went into exile and fled to the Netherlands. During his time here, Keilson wrote a few books in Dutch language, crediting himself under the pseudonym Benjamin Cooper.\n\nIn 1941, Keilson went into hiding and had to leave his pregnant wife behind. His wife gave birth to a daughter, Barbara, in the same year; she pretended the girl's father was a German officer to prevent prosecution. Meanwhile, Keilson had moved in with a married couple in Delft, taking on a new identity as physician Dr. Van der Linden. During this time, the Dutch resistance asked him to pay visits to Jewish children that had been separated from their parents after they had gone into hiding. These experiences in particular formed the main inspiration for Keilson's later works.\nKeilson reunited with his wife and daughter after the war. He and Gertrud were unable to marry before the war. In Germany they couldn't marry because of Keilson's Jewish origins. In the Netherlands it was not possible to marry for the Dutch law as German citizens. And so, when the war was over they married within the Liberal Jewish Community of Amsterdam. After the war Gertrud had to explain to the Dutch neighbours that her husband was indeed German, but also Jewish, to avoid further consequences.\nKeilson had to requalify for his physician's licence, should he want to work in the Netherlands, and did so. He specialized as a psychiatrist and a psychoanalyst. In 1969, Gertrud died.\n\nDuring the war, Keilson's parents were deported to Auschwitz, where both died. In later interviews Keilson expressed deep regret for being unable to save his parents.\n\nIn 1970 Keilson married literature historian Marita Lauritz (1935), 25 years his junior. Marita gave birth to his, and her, second daughter, Bloeme, in 1974. He published several more works and received little media attention. On his special birthday anniversaries, such as his 70th, 80th and 90th birthday, Dutch media would do interviews with him.\n\nIn 2010, \"The New York Times\"s Francine Prose described Keilson as \"one of the world's greatest writers\". Much media attention, in both the United States and his adopted home country, the Netherlands, was given to the fact that Keilson received this acknowledgement at the age of 100. Keilson was invited to Dutch talkshow \"De Wereld Draait Door\", where he was interviewed by presenter Matthijs van Nieuwkerk. Many more articles and interviews appeared in the following year, worldwide, and by then his \"Der Tod des Widersachers\" (\"The Death of the Adversary\") had been translated in 20 languages.\n\nHe died on 31 May 2011 in Hilversum, at the age of 101.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1535742", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1535742", "title": "Hartry Field", "text": "Hartry Field\n\nHartry H. Field (born November 30, 1946) is an American philosopher. He is Silver Professor of Philosophy at New York University and a notable contributor to philosophy of language, mind, and mathematics. \n\nField is also Distinguished Research Professor in the Department of Philosophy, University of Birmingham, UK.\n\nField earned his Ph.D. in philosophy from Harvard University under the direction of Hilary Putnam. He taught first at Princeton University, and then at the University of Southern California and City University of New York Graduate Center before joining the NYU faculty.\n\nField was elected Fellow of the American Academy of Arts and Sciences in 2003 and is also a past winner of the Lakatos Prize in 1986.\n\nField's first work was a commentary on Alfred Tarski's theory of truth, which he has worked on since 1972. His current view on this matter is in favor of a deflationary theory of truth. His most influential work produced in this period is probably \"Theory Change and the Indeterminacy of Reference\" (\"Journal of Philosophy\", 70(14): 462–481), in which he introduced the concept of partial denotation.\n\nIn the 1980s, Field started a project in the philosophy of mathematics discussing mathematical fictionalism, the doctrine that all mathematical statements are merely useful fictions, and should not be taken to be literally true. More precisely, Field holds that the existence of sets may be denied, in opposition to Quine and Putnam.\n\nMuch of his current work is in semantic paradoxes. In 2008, he gave the John Locke Lectures, entitled \"Logic, Normativity, and Rational Revisability.\"\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "14144", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14144", "title": "Hiberno-English", "text": "Hiberno-English\n\nHiberno-English (from Latin \"Hibernia\": \"Ireland\") or Irish English is the set of English dialects natively written and spoken within the island of Ireland (including both the Republic of Ireland and Northern Ireland).\n\nEnglish was brought to Ireland as a result of the Norman invasion of Ireland of the late 12th century. Initially, it was mainly spoken in an area known as the Pale around Dublin, with mostly Irish spoken throughout the rest of the country. By the Tudor period, Irish culture and language had regained most of the territory lost to the invaders: even in the Pale, \"all the common folk… for the most part are of Irish birth, Irish habit, and of Irish language\". Some small pockets remained predominantly English-speaking; because of their sheer isolation their dialects developed into later (now extinct) dialects known as Yola in Wexford and Fingallian in Fingal, Dublin. These were no longer mutually intelligible with other English varieties. However, the Tudor conquest and colonisation of Ireland in the 16th century marked a revival in the use of English. By the mid-19th century, English was the majority language spoken in the country. It has retained this status to the present day, with even those whose first language is Irish being fluent in English as well. Today, there is only a little more than one percent of the population that speaks Irish natively. English is one of two official languages, along with Irish, of the Republic of Ireland, and is the country's working language.\n\nHiberno-English's spelling and pronunciation standards align with British rather than American English. However, Hiberno-English's diverse accents and some of its grammatical structures are unique, with some influence by the Irish language and a tendency to be phonologically conservative, retaining older features no longer common in the accents of England or North America.\n\nPhonologists today often divide Hiberno-English into four or five overarching classes of dialects or accents: Ulster accents, West and South-West Region accents (including, for example, the Cork accent), various Dublin accents, and a supraregional accent developing since only the last quarter of the twentieth century.\nUlster English (or Northern Irish English) here refers collectively to the varieties of the Ulster province, including Northern Ireland and neighbouring counties outside of Northern Ireland, which has been influenced by Ulster Irish as well as the Scots language, brought over by Scottish settlers during the Plantation of Ulster. Its main subdivisions are Mid-Ulster English, South Ulster English and Ulster Scots English, the latter of which is more directly and strongly influenced by the Scots language. All Ulster English has more obvious pronunciation similarities with Scottish English than other Irish English dialects do.\n\nUlster varieties distinctly pronounce:\n\n\nWest and South-West Irish English here refers to broad varieties of Ireland's West and South-West Regions. Accents of both regions are known for:\n\nSouth-West Irish English (often known, by specific county, as Cork English, Kerry English, or Limerick English) also features two major defining characteristics of its own: the raising of to when before or (as in \"again\" or \"pen\"), and the noticeable intonation pattern of a slightly higher pitch followed by a significant drop in pitch on stressed long-vowel syllables (across multiple syllables or even within a single one), which is popularly heard, in rapid conversation, as a kind of undulating \"sing-song\" pattern.\n\n\nDublin English is highly internally diverse and refers collectively to the Irish English varieties immediately surrounding and within the metropolitan area of Dublin. Modern-day Dublin English largely lies on a phonological continuum, ranging from a more traditional, lower-prestige, local urban accent on the one end to a more recently developing, higher-prestige, non-local (regional and even supraregional) accent on the other end, whose most advanced characteristics only first emerged in the late 1980s and 1990s. The accent that most strongly uses the traditional working-class features has been labelled by linguistis as local Dublin English. Most speakers from Dublin and its suburbs, however, have accent features falling variously along the entire middle as well as newer end of the spectrum, which together form what is called non-local Dublin English, spoken by middle- and upper-class natives of Dublin and the greater eastern Irish region surrounding the city. A subset of this variety, whose middle-class speakers mostly range in the middle section of the continuum, is called mainstream Dublin English. Mainstream Dublin English has become the basis of an accent that has otherwise become supraregional (see more below) everywhere except in the north of the country. The majority of Dubliners born since the 1980s (led particularly by females) has shifted towards the most innovative non-local accent, here called new Dublin English, which has gained ground over mainstream Dublin English and which is the most extreme variety in rejecting the local accent's traditional features. The varieties at either extreme of the spectrum, local and new Dublin English, are both discussed in further detail below. In the most general terms, all varieties of Dublin English have the following identifying sounds that are often distinct from the rest of Ireland, pronouncing:\n\nLocal Dublin English (or popular Dublin English) here refers to a traditional, broad, working-class variety spoken in the Republic of Ireland's capital city of Dublin. It is the only Irish English variety that in earlier history was non-rhotic; however, it is today weakly rhotic, and it uniquely pronounces:\n\nThe local Dublin accent is also known for a phenomenon called \"vowel breaking\", in which the vowel sounds , , , and in closed syllables are \"broken\" into two syllables, approximating , , , and , respectively.\n\n\nEvolving as a fashionable outgrowth of the mainstream non-local Dublin English, new Dublin English (also, advanced Dublin English and, formerly, fashionable Dublin English) is a youthful variety that originally began in the early 1990s among the \"avant-garde\" and now those aspiring to a non-local \"urban sophistication\". New Dublin English itself, first associated with affluent and middle-class inhabitants of southside Dublin, is probably now spoken by a majority of Dubliners born since the 1980s. It has replaced (yet was largely influenced by) moribund D4 English (often known as \"Dublin 4\" or \"DART speak\" or, mockingly, \"Dortspeak\"), which originated around the 1970s from Dubliners who rejected traditional notions of Irishness, regarding themselves as more trendy and sophisticated; however, particular aspects of the D4 accent became quickly noticed and ridiculed as sounding affected, causing these features to fall out of fashion by the 1990s.\n\nThis \"new mainstream\" accent of Dublin's youth, rejecting traditional working-class Dublin, pronounces:\n\n\nSupraregional southern Irish English (sometimes, simply, supraregional Irish English or supraregional Hiberno-English) here refers to a variety crossing regional boundaries throughout all of the Republic of Ireland, except the north. As mentioned earlier, mainstream Dublin English of the early- to mid-1900s is the direct influence and catalyst for this variety. Most speakers born in the 1980s or later are showing fewer features of the twentieth-century mainstream supraregional form and more characteristics of an advanced supraregional variety that aligns clearly with the rapidly spreading new Dublin accent (see more above, under \"Non-local Dublin English\").\n\nIreland's supraregional dialect pronounces:\n\nThe following charts list the vowels typical of each Irish English dialect as well as the several distinctive consonants of Irish English. Phonological characteristics of overall Irish English are given as well as categorisations into five major divisions of Hiberno-English: northern Ireland (or Ulster); West & South-West Ireland; local Dublin; new Dublin; and supraregional (southern) Ireland. Features of mainstream non-local Dublin English fall on a range between \"local Dublin\" and \"new Dublin\".\n\nThe defining monophthongs of Irish English:\n\nThe following pure vowel sounds are defining characteristics of Irish English:\n\nAll pure vowels of various Hiberno-English dialects:\n\nFootnotes:\nIn southside Dublin's once-briefly fashionable \"Dublin 4\" (or \"Dortspeak\") accent, the \" and broad \" set becomes rounded as [ɒː].\n\nUnstressed syllable-final or is realised in Ulster accents uniquely as .\n\nOther notes:\n\n\nThe defining diphthongs of Hiberno-English:\n\nThe following gliding vowel (diphthong) sounds are defining characteristics of Irish English:\n\nAll diphthongs of various Hiberno-English dialects:\n\nFootnotes:\nDue to the local Dublin accent's phenomenon of \"vowel breaking\", may be realised in that accent as in a closed syllable, and, in the same environment, may be realised as .\n\nThe defining \"r\"-coloured vowels of Hiberno-English:\n\nThe following \"r\"-coloured vowel features are defining characteristics of Hiberno-English: \n\nAll \"r\"-coloured vowels of various Hiberno-English dialects:\n\nFootnotes:\n\nEvery major accent of Irish English is rhotic (pronounces \"r\" after a vowel sound). The local Dublin accent is the only one that during an earlier time was non-rhotic, though it usually very lightly rhotic today, with a few minor exceptions. The rhotic consonant in this and most other Irish accents is an approximant .\n\nThe \"r\" sound of the mainstream non-local Dublin accent is more precisely a velarised approximant , while the \"r\" sound of the more recently emerging non-local Dublin (or \"new Dublin\") accent is more precisely a retroflex approximant .\n\nIn southside Dublin's once-briefly fashionable \"Dublin 4\" (or \"Dortspeak\") accent, is realised as .\n\nIn non-local Dublin's more recently emerging (or \"new Dublin\") accent, and may both be realised more rounded as .\n\nIn local Dublin, West/South-West, and other very conservative and traditional Irish English varieties ranging from the south to the north, the phoneme is split into two distinct phonemes depending on spelling and preceding consonants, which have sometimes been represented as versus , and often more precisely pronounced as versus . As an example, the words \"earn\" and \"urn\" are not pronounced the same, as they are in most dialects of English around the world. In the local Dublin and West/South-West accents, when after a labial consonant (e.g. \"fern\"), when spelled as \"ur\" or \"or\" (e.g. \"word\"), or when spelled as \"ir\" after an alveolar stop (e.g. \"dirt\") are pronounced as ; in all other situations, is pronounced as . Example words include:\n\n\nIn non-local Dublin, younger, and supraregional Irish accents, this split is seldom preserved, with both of the phonemes typically merged as .\n\nIn rare few local Dublin varieties that are non-rhotic, is either lowered to or backed and raised to .\n\nThe distinction between and is widely preserved in Ireland, so that, for example, \"horse\" and \"hoarse\" are not merged in most Irish English dialects; however, they are usually merged in Belfast and new Dublin.\n\nIn local Dublin, due to the phenomenon of \"vowel breaking\" may in fact be realised as .\n\nThe defining consonants of Hiberno-English:\n\nThe consonants of Hiberno-English mostly align to the typical English consonant sounds. However, a few Irish English consonants have distinctive, varying qualities. The following consonant features are defining characteristics of Hiberno-English: \n\nUnique consonants in various Hiberno-English dialects:\n\nFootnotes:\n\nIn traditional, conservative Ulster English, and are palatalised before a low front vowel.\n\nLocal Dublin also undergoes cluster simplification, so that stop consonant sounds occurring after fricatives or sonorants may be left unpronounced, resulting, for example, in \"poun(d)\" and \"las(t)\".\n\nRhoticity: Every major accent of Irish English is strongly rhotic (pronounces \"r\" after a vowel sound), though to a weaker degree with the local Dublin accent. The accents of local Dublin and some smaller eastern towns like Drogheda were historically non-rhotic and now only very lightly rhotic or variably rhotic, with the rhotic consonant being an alveolar approximant, . In extremely traditional and conservative accents (exemplified, for instance, in the speech of older speakers throughout the country, even in South-West Ireland, such as Mícheál Ó Muircheartaigh and Jackie Healy-Rae), the rhotic consonant, before a vowel sound, can also be an alveolar tap, . The rhotic consonant for the northern Ireland and new Dublin accents is a retroflex approximant, . Dublin's retroflex approximant has no precedent outside of northern Ireland and is a genuine innovation of the past two decades. A guttural/uvular is found in north-east Leinster. Otherwise, the rhotic consonant of virtually all other Irish accents is the postalveolar approximant, .\n\nThe symbol [θ̠] is used here to represent the voiceless alveolar non-sibilant fricative, sometimes known as a \"slit fricative\", whose articulation is described as being apico-alveolar.\n\nOverall, and are being increasingly merged in supraregional Irish English, for example, making \"wine\" and \"whine\" homophones, as in most varieties of English around the world.\n\nOther phonological characteristics of Irish English include that consonant clusters ending in before are distinctive:\n\nThe naming of the letter \"H\" as \"haitch\" is standard.\n\nDue to Gaelic influence, an epenthetic schwa is sometimes inserted, perhaps as a feature of older and less careful speakers, e.g. \"film\" and \"form\" .\n\nA number of Irish-language loan words are used in Hiberno-English, particularly in an official state capacity. For example, the head of government is the Taoiseach, the deputy head is the Tánaiste, the parliament is the Oireachtas and its lower house is Dáil Éireann. Less formally, people also use loan words in day-to-day speech, although this has been on the wane in recent decades and among the young.\n\nAnother group of Hiberno-English words are those \"derived\" from the Irish language. Some are words in English that have entered into general use, while others are unique to Ireland. These words and phrases are often Anglicised versions of words in Irish or direct translations into English. In the latter case, they often give a meaning to a word or phrase that is generally not found in wider English use.\n\nAnother class of vocabulary found in Hiberno-English are words and phrases common in Old and Middle English, but which have since become obscure or obsolete in the modern English language generally. Hiberno-English has also developed particular meanings for words that are still in common use in English generally.\n\nIn addition to the three groups above, there are also additional words and phrases whose origin is disputed or unknown. While this group may not be unique to Ireland, their usage is not widespread, and could be seen as characteristic of the language in Ireland.\n\nThe syntax of the Irish language is quite different from that of English. Various aspects of Irish syntax have influenced Hiberno-English, though many of these idiosyncrasies are disappearing in suburban areas and among the younger population.\n\nThe other major influence on Hiberno-English that sets it apart from modern English in general is the retention of words and phrases from Old- and Middle-English.\n\nReduplication is an alleged trait of Hiberno-English strongly associated with Stage Irish and Hollywood films.\n\n\nIrish lacks words that directly translate as \"yes\" or \"no\", and instead repeats the verb used in the question, negated if necessary, to answer. Hiberno-English uses \"yes\" and \"no\" less frequently than other English dialects as speakers can repeat the verb, positively or negatively, instead of (or in redundant addition to) using \"yes\" or \"no\".\n\n\nThis is not limited only to the verb \"to be\": it is also used with \"to have\" when used as an auxiliary; and, with other verbs, the verb \"to do\" is used. This is most commonly used for intensification, especially in Ulster English.\n\nIrish indicates recency of an action by adding \"after\" to the present continuous (a verb ending in \"-ing\"), a construction known as the \"hot news perfect\" or \"after perfect\". The idiom for \"I had done X when I did Y\" is \"I was after doing X when I did Y\", modelled on the Irish usage of the compound prepositions \"i ndiaidh\", \"tar éis\", and \"in éis\": \"bhí mé tar éis/i ndiaidh/in éis X a dhéanamh, nuair a rinne mé Y\".\nA similar construction is seen where exclamation is used in describing a recent event:\n\nWhen describing less astonishing or significant events, a structure resembling the German perfect can be seen:\n\nThis correlates with an analysis of \"H1 Irish\" proposed by Adger & Mitrovic, in a deliberate parallel to the status of German as a V2 language.\n\nThe reflexive version of pronouns is often used for emphasis or to refer indirectly to a particular person, etc., according to context. \"Herself\", for example, might refer to the speaker's boss or to the woman of the house. Use of \"herself\" or \"himself\" in this way often indicates that the speaker attributes some degree of arrogance or selfishness to the person in question. Note also the indirectness of this construction relative to, for example, \"She's coming now\"\n\nThere are some language forms that stem from the fact that there is no verb \"to have\" in Irish. Instead, possession is indicated in Irish by using the preposition \"at\", (in Irish, \"ag.\"). To be more precise, Irish uses a prepositional pronoun that combines \"ag\" \"at\" and \"mé\" \"me\" to create \"agam\".\nIn English, the verb \"to have\" is used, along with a \"with me\" or \"on me\" that derives from \"Tá … agam.\" This gives rise to the frequent\nSomebody who can speak a language \"has\" a language, in which Hiberno-English has borrowed the grammatical form used in Irish.\n\nWhen describing something, many Hiberno-English speakers use the term \"in it\" where \"there\" would usually be used. This is due to the Irish word \"ann\" (pronounced \"oun\" or \"on\") fulfilling both meanings.\n\nAnother idiom is this thing or that thing described as \"this man here\" or \"that man there\", which also features in Newfoundland English in Canada.\n\nConditionals have a greater presence in Hiberno-English due to the tendency to replace the simple present tense with the conditional (would) and the simple past tense with the conditional perfect (would have).\n\nBring and take: Irish use of these words differs from that of British English because it follows the Irish grammar for \"beir\" and \"tóg\". English usage is determined by direction; person determines Irish usage. So, in English, one takes \"\"from\" here \"to\" there\", and brings it \"\"to\" here \"from\" there\". In Irish, a person takes only when accepting a transfer of possession of the object from someone elseand a person brings at all other times, irrespective of direction (to or from).\n\nThe Irish equivalent of the verb \"to be\" has two present tenses, one (the present tense proper or \"aimsir láithreach\") for cases which are generally true or are true at the time of speaking and the other (the habitual present or \"aimsir ghnáthláithreach\") for repeated actions. Thus, \"you are [now, or generally]\" is \"tá tú\", but \"you are [repeatedly]\" is \"bíonn tú\". Both forms are used with the verbal noun (equivalent to the English present participle) to create compound tenses. This is similar to the distinction between \"ser\" and \"estar\" in Spanish.\n\nThe corresponding usage in English is frequently found in rural areas, especially Mayo/Sligo in the west of Ireland and Wexford in the south-east, Inner-City Dublin along with border areas of the North and Republic. In this form, the verb \"to be\" in English is similar to its use in Irish, with a \"does be/do be\" (or \"bees\", although less frequently) construction to indicate the continuous, or habitual, present:\n\nThis construction also surfaces in African American Vernacular English, as the famous habitual be.\n\nIn old-fashioned usage, \"it is\" can be freely abbreviated \"’tis\", even as a standalone sentence. This also allows the double contraction \"’tisn’t\", for \"it is not\".\n\nIrish has separate forms for the second person singular (\"tú\") and the second person plural (\"sibh\").\nMirroring Irish, and almost every other Indo European language, the plural \"you\" is also distinguished from the singular in Hiberno-English, normally by use of the otherwise archaic English word \"ye\" ; the word \"yous\" (sometimes written as \"youse\") also occurs, but primarily only in Dublin and across Ulster. In addition, in some areas in Leinster, north Connacht and parts of Ulster, the hybrid word \"ye-s\", pronounced \"yiz\", may be used. The pronunciation differs with that of the northwestern being and the Leinster pronunciation being .\n\n\nThe word \"ye\", \"yis\" or \"yous\", otherwise archaic, is still used in place of \"you\" for the second-person plural. \"Ye'r\", \"Yisser\" or \"Yousser\" are the possessive forms, e.g. \"Where are yous going?\"\n\nThe verb \"mitch\" is very common in Ireland, indicating being truant from school. This word appears in Shakespeare (though he wrote in Early Modern English rather than Middle English), but is seldom heard these days in British English, although pockets of usage persist in some areas (notably South Wales, Devon, and Cornwall). In parts of Connacht and Ulster the \"mitch\" is often replaced by the verb \"scheme\", while in Dublin it is often replaced by \"on the hop/bounce\".\n\nAnother usage familiar from Shakespeare is the inclusion of the second person pronoun after the imperative form of a verb, as in \"Wife, go you to her ere you go to bed\" (Romeo and Juliet, Act III, Scene IV). This is still common in Ulster: \"Get youse your homework done or you're no goin' out!\" In Munster, you will still hear children being told, \"Up to bed, let ye\" .\n\nFor influence from Scotland, see Ulster Scots and Ulster English.\n\nNow is often used at the end of sentences or phrases as a semantically empty word, completing an utterance without contributing any apparent meaning. Examples include \"Bye now\" (= \"Goodbye\"), \"There you go now\" (when giving someone something), \"Ah now!\" (expressing dismay), \"Hold on now\" (= \"wait a minute\"), \"Now then\" as a mild attention-getter, etc. This usage is universal among English dialects, but occurs more frequently in Hiberno-English. It is also used in the manner of the Italian 'prego' or German 'bitte', for example a barman might say \"Now, Sir.\" when delivering drinks.\n\nSo is often used for emphasis (\"I can speak Irish, so I can\"), or it may be tacked onto the end of a sentence to indicate agreement, where \"then\" would often be used in Standard English (\"Bye so\", \"Let's go so\", \"That's fine so\", \"We'll do that so\"). The word is also used to contradict a negative statement (\"You're not pushing hard enough\" – \"I am so!\"). (This contradiction of a negative is also seen in American English, though not as often as \"I am too\", or \"Yes, I am\".) The practice of indicating emphasis with \"so\" and including reduplicating the sentence's subject pronoun and auxiliary verb (is, are, have, has, can, etc.) such as in the initial example, is particularly prevalent in more northern dialects such as those of Sligo, Mayo and the counties of Ulster.\n\nSure is often used as a tag word, emphasising the obviousness of the statement, roughly translating as but/and/well. Can be used as \"to be sure\", the famous Irish stereotype phrase. (But note that the other stereotype of \"Sure and …\" is not actually used in Ireland.) Or \"Sure, I can just go on Wednesday\", \"I will not, to be sure.\" The word is also used at the end of sentences (primarily in Munster), for instance \"I was only here five minutes ago, sure!\" and can express emphasis or indignation.\n\nTo is often omitted from sentences where it would exist in British English. For example, \"I'm not let go out tonight\", instead of \"I'm not allowed \"to\" go out tonight\".\n\nWill is often used where British English would use \"shall\" or American English \"should\" (as in \"Will I make us a cup of tea?\"). The distinction between \"shall\" (for first-person simple future, and second- and third-person emphatic future) and \"will\" (second- and third-person simple future, first-person emphatic future), maintained by many in England, does not exist in Hiberno-English, with \"will\" generally used in all cases.\n\nOnce is sometimes used in a different way from how it is used in other dialects; in this usage, it indicates a combination of logical and causal conditionality: \"I have no problem laughing at myself once the joke is funny.\" Other dialects of English would probably use \"if\" in this situation.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "627021", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=627021", "title": "High rising terminal", "text": "High rising terminal\n\nThe high rising terminal (HRT), also known as upspeak, uptalk, rising inflection, or high rising intonation (HRI), is a feature of some variants of English where declarative sentence clauses end with a rising-pitch intonation, until the end of the sentence where a falling-pitch is applied.\n\nEmpirically, one report proposes that HRT in American English and Australian English is marked by a high tone (high pitch or high fundamental frequency) beginning on the final accented syllable near the end of the statement (the terminal), and continuing to increase in frequency (up to 40%) to the end of the intonational phrase. New research suggests that the actual rise can occur one or more syllables after the last accented syllable of the phrase, and its range is much more variable than previously thought.\n\nThe origins of HRT remain uncertain. Anecdotal evidence places the conception of the American English variety on the West Coast – anywhere from Southern California to the Pacific Northwest.\n\nWith respect to the southern hemisphere, it has been suggested that the feature may have originated in New Zealand.\n\nIt is unclear whether the American English varieties and the Oceanic varieties had any influence on each other regarding the spread of HRT.\n\nIn the United States, the phenomenon of HRT may be fairly recent but is an increasingly common characteristic of speech especially among younger speakers. However, serious scientific and linguistic inquiry on this topic has a much more extensive history in linguistic journals from Australia, New Zealand, and Britain where HRT seems to have been noted as early as World War II.\n\nIt has been noted in speech heard in areas of Canada, in Cape Town, the Falkland Islands, and in the United States where it is often associated with a particular sociolect that originated among affluent teenage girls in Southern California (see Valleyspeak and Valley girl). It was observed in Mississippi in 1963 (see \"Twirling at Ole Miss\" in \"Red-Dirt Marijuana and Other Tastes\"). Elsewhere in the United States, this tonal pattern is characteristic of the speech heard in parts of the rural Upper Midwest that have come under the influence of Norwegian phonology through Norwegian migration to Minnesota and North Dakota.\n\nAlthough it is characterized in Britain as \"Australian question intonation\" (AQI) and blamed on the popularity of Australian soap operas among teenagers, HRT is also a feature of several Irish-English dialects, especially in mid-Ulster and Belfast English.\n\nA 1986 report stated that in Sydney, it is used more than twice as often by young generations as by older ones, and particularly by women. It also subtly indicates that the speaker is \"not finished yet\", thus perhaps discouraging interruption.\n\nHigh rising terminal also occurs in non-English languages, such as in Arabic (Iraqi Arabic, Egyptian Arabic and Lebanese Arabic), Cham, Tuvaluan, Dominican Spanish, and Spanish.\n\nMedia in Australia, Britain, and the United States have negatively portrayed the usage of HRT, claiming that its use exhibits a speaker's insecurities about the statement and undermines effective speaking. \"Time\" reports that it hampers job interviews.\nRecent evidence shows that leaders of the peer group are more likely to use HRT in their declaratives than the junior members of the particular peer group. According to University of Pennsylvania phonologist Mark Liberman, George W. Bush began to use HRT extensively in his speeches as his presidency continued. Linguist Robin Lakoff drew attention to the pattern in her book \"Language and Women's Place\", which argued that women were socialized to talk in ways that lacked power, authority, and confidence. Rising intonation on declarative sentences was one of the features Lakoff included in her description of \"women's language\", a gendered speech style which in her view both reflected and reproduced its users' subordinate social status. Since the rising-pitch is mostly applied to clauses before the end of the sentence, it serves as a type of notice that the sentence remains 'in-progress' and thus to prevent interruption.\n\nBecause HRT has been popularized as \"Valley Girl Speak\", it has acquired an almost exclusively feminine gender connotation. Studies confirm that more women use HRT than men. Linguist Thomas J. Linneman contends, \"The more successful a man is, the less likely he is to use HRT; the more successful a woman is, the more likely she is to use uptalk\". Though women appear to use HRT more often than men, the differences in frequency are not significant enough to brand HRT as an exclusively female speech pattern. Susan Miller, a vocal coach in Washington, D.C., insists that she receives both male and female clients with equal frequency—not because either gender is concerned that they sound too feminine, but that they sound too young.\n\nSusan Sankin, a New York State licensed speech pathologist, affirms that she has \"now noticed in my practice that it is a conversational style that extends equally across gender, age, and socioeconomic levels. It seems that nobody is immune to this trend that has become as contagious as the common cold\". Findings have thus been inconclusive regarding HRT as a gendered speech pattern, though the (partial) evidence that HRT is more common among women is consistent with the third principle of the gender paradox identified by sociolinguist William Labov, namely that \"in linguistic change from below, women use higher frequencies of innovative forms more than men do\". Viewing HRT as \"change from below\" also explains why it appears to be more common among young speakers.\n\nDespite inconclusive research, there appears to be merit to the claim that gendered connotations of HRT give rise to difficulties in the feminist sphere. Anne Charity Hudley, a linguist at the College of William & Mary, suggests, \"When certain linguistic traits are tied to women ... they often will be assigned a negative attribute without any actual evidence\". Negative associations with the speech pattern, in combination with gendered expectations, have contributed to an implication that for female speakers to be viewed as authoritative, they ought to sound more like men than women. These implications are perpetuated by various media, including the coverage of politics.\n\nFemale U.S. Senator Kirsten Gillibrand, for example, has voiced her concern that traditionally feminine speech patterns do not allow a female speaker to be taken seriously. \"To meet those standards,\" she says, \"you have to speak less like a young girl and more like a young, aspiring professional...it's a choice every young woman is going to have to make about how she wants to be and how she wants to be received\". Feminist objections to this may take issue with the perhaps arbitrary distinction Gillibrand makes between a \"young girl\" and \"a young, aspiring professional\". Further, the choice young women purportedly must make about how she wants to be received does not appear to be a choice young men must also make—at least not one as widely urged by authoritative figures. Lydia Dallet of \"Business Insider\" affirms this concern.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "361753", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=361753", "title": "Jacob of Serugh", "text": "Jacob of Serugh\n\nJacob of Sarug (, \"Yaʿquḇ Sruḡāyâ\", ; his toponym is also spelled \"Serug\" or \"Serugh\"; ; 451 – 29 November 521), also called Mar Jacob, was one of the foremost Syriac poet-theologians, perhaps only second in stature to Ephrem the Syrian and equal to Narsai. Where his predecessor Ephrem is known as the 'Harp of the Spirit', Jacob is the 'Flute of the Spirit'. He is best known for his prodigious corpus of more than seven-hundred verse homilies, or \"mêmrê\" ( ), of which only 225 have thus far been edited and published.\n\nJacob was born around the middle of the fifth century in the village of Kurtam () on the Euphrates in the ancient region of Serugh, which stood as the eastern part of the province of Commagene (corresponding to the modern Turkish districts of Suruç and Birecik). He was educated in the famous School of Edessa and became chorepiscopus back in the Serugh area, serving rural churches of Haura (, \"Ḥaurâ\"). His tenure of this office extended over a time of great trouble to the Christian population of Mesopotamia, due to the fierce war carried on by the Sasanian emperor Kavadh I within the Roman borders. When, on 10 January 503, the city of Amida (now Diyarbakır) was captured by the Sasanians after a three-month siege and all its citizens put to the sword or carried captive, a panic seized the whole district, and the Christian inhabitants of many neighbouring cities planned to leave their homes and flee to the west of the Euphrates. They were recalled to a more courageous frame of mind by the letters of Jacob.\n\nIn 519, Jacob was elected bishop of the main city of the area, called in Syriac \"Baṭnān d-Sruḡ\" (). As Jacob was born in the same year as the controversial Council of Chalcedon, he lived through the intense rifts that split Eastern Christianity, which led to most Syriac speakers being separated from Byzantine communion. Even though imperial persecution of anti-Chalcedonians became increasingly brutal towards the end of Jacob's life, he remained surprisingly quiet on such divisive theological and political issues. However, when pressed in correspondence by Paul, bishop of Edessa, he openly expressed dissatisfaction with the proceedings of Chalcedon.\n\nFrom the various extant accounts of Jacob's life and from the number of his known works, we gather that his literary activity was unceasing. According to Bar Hebraeus (\"Chron. Eccles.\" i. 191) he employed 70 amanuenses and wrote in all 760 metrical homilies, besides expositions, letters and hymns of different sorts. Of his merits as a writer and poet we are now well able to judge from Paul Bedjan's edition of selected metrical homilies (Paris 1905-1908), containing 146 pieces. They are written throughout in dodecasyllabic metre, and those published deal mainly with biblical themes, though there are also poems on such subjects as the deaths of Christian martyrs, the fall of the idols and the First Council of Nicaea.\n\nOf Jacob's prose works, which are not nearly so numerous, the most interesting are his letters, which throw light upon some of the events of his time and reveal his attachment to Miaphysitism, which was then struggling for supremacy in the Syrian churches, and particularly at Edessa, over the opposite teaching of Nestorius.\n\nThe Catholic Church regards Jacob of Serugh as a Saint. He is recorded as such on 29 November in the latest edition of the \"Roman Martyrology\", that of 2004 (p. 649).\nHe is especially famous for his metrical homilies in the dodecasyllabic verse of which, says Bar Hebraeus, he composed over eight hundred known to us. Only a selection of them have been published in modern translations, e.g. on Simeon Stylites, on virginity, fornication, etc., two on Mary, mother of Jesus, on the chariot described by Ezekiel, and in the ongoing series of texts with English translations being published by Gorgias Press in the series, which has also republished the five-volume publication of homilies by P. Bedjan with a supplemental sixth volume of additional homilies collected by S. Brock. He wrote his earliest homilies in his early twenties.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "44081839", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44081839", "title": "K. Y. Narayanaswamy", "text": "K. Y. Narayanaswamy\n\nKuppur Yalappa Narayanaswamy, also known as KYN, is a popular Kannada poet, scholar, critic, and playwright. He is currently a Kannada professor in the Government Arts College, Bangalore. He is the author of many popular Kannada plays including \"Kalavu, Anabhigna Shakuntala, Chakraratna, Huliseere,\" and \"Vinura Vema\". He has also translated Kuvempu’s \"Shudra Tapaswi\" into Telugu. He is credited with adapting Kuvempu’s magnum opus \"Malegalalli madumagalu\" into a 9-hour play. He has also written the screenplay for the films \"Kalavu\" and \"Suryakaanti\".\n\nHe won the Karnataka Sahitya Akademi Award for his play \"Pampabharatha\", which is considered a milestone in modern Kannada theatre. He is considered to be an influential writer and thinker. His plays are representative of Kannada theatre’s search for new frontiers in experimental theatre.\n\nKYN was born in Kuppur village near Masthi in Malur Taluk, Kolar district, Karnataka. He was born to Yalappa and Muniyamma. He finished his schooling in Masthi and moved to Bangalore to obtain his BA, MA and M.Phil degrees in Kannada. His PhD, titled \"Neeradeevige\", is considered a milestone in the societal understanding of cultural associations with water. He currently lives in Bangalore with his wife and two children.\n\nKYN first came into prominence with his play \"Pampabharatha\", whose essence is based on Adikavi Pampa’s epic poem \"Vikramarjunavijaya\", which is also known as \"Pampabharatha\". While Pampa’s epic relates the Mahabharatha from the perspective of Arjuna, KYN’s play is based on Karna’s viewpoint of events in Mahabharatha. However, the play is also a deconstruction of Pampa’s version and the Mahabharatha itself, and it moves the narration to contemporary times and also focuses on issues of contemporary relevance. The play, staged by the theatre group Samudaya, has seen a hundred shows.\n\nSince Pampabharatha, his other plays such as \"Kalavu, Anabhigna Shakuntala\", and \"Male Mantrika\" have been widely appreciated by Kannada audiences. He is currently working on a new play tentatively titled \"Mallige\".\n\nIn 2010, KYN adapted Kuvempu’s \"Malegalalli Madumagalu\" \"(The Bride in the Mountains)\" into a 9-hour play that was directed by noted theatre director and NSD alumnus C. Basavalingaiah. The play was staged about 15 times each in Bangalore and Mysore, and showcased to nearly 60,000 audience members.\n\nKYN also co-authored the script for the light and sound show \"Manushya Jathi Tanonde Valam\" with Kotaganahalli Ramaiah and Lakshmipathy Kolar. This show, also directed by Basavalingaiah, with music composed by famed music director Hamsalekha, was staged in 28 districts in Karnataka.\n\nKYN has also written screenplays for the films \"Kalavu\" (a cinematic adaptation of his play) and \"Suryakaanti\". He is currently working on screenplays with renowned Kannada film directors TS Nagabharana and Nagathihalli Chandrashekar.\n\nHe has curated a music album titled \"Kolar Desi Gold\", with music scored by Hamsalekha. The album is a compilation of Telugu folk songs that have also been translated into Kannada. He has written the lyrics for the music album \"Kailamp\" \"(KYN love songs)\", with music being composed by his student Arvinda SD and the songs sung by an ensemble of popular singers in styles ranging from classical and folk to jazz.\n\nAs a Kannada professor, KYN has authored the Kannada text Sahitya Samvada -1 for Bangalore University.\n\n\n\n\n\n\nKYN is a founding member of the Besagarahalli Ramannna Trust, which provides scholarships and financial aid to needy students. The Trust also organizes annual rural summer camps.\n\nTogether with other lecturers of Government Science College, KYN started a midday meal scheme for students.\n\nKYN has initiated a program titled Kuvempu Odu (Read Kuvempu) along with K V Narayana. The program identifies various colleges across Karnataka and introduces students to Kuvempu’s writings and philosophy.\n\n"}
{"id": "30073543", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30073543", "title": "Koore language", "text": "Koore language\n\nKoorete (also Amaarro, Amarro, Badittu, Koore, Koyra, Kwera, Nuna) is the language spoken by the Koore people of southern Ethiopia.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "22782556", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22782556", "title": "List of opera genres", "text": "List of opera genres\n\nThis is an inclusive glossary list of opera genres, giving alternative names.\n\n\"Opera\" is an Italian word (short for \"opera in musica\"), however it was not \"commonly\" used in Italy (or indeed in other countries) to refer to the genre of particular works. Most composers used more precise designations to present their work to the public. Often specific genres of opera were commissioned by theatres or patrons (in which case the form of the work might deviate more or less from the genre norm, depending on the inclination of the composer). Opera genres are not exclusive. Some operas are regarded as belonging to several.\n\nOpera genres have been defined in different ways, not always in terms of stylistic rules. Some, like opera seria, refer to traditions identified by later historians, while others, like Zeitoper, have been defined by their own inventors. Other forms have been associated with a particular theatre, for example opéra comique at the theatre of the same name, or opéra bouffe at the Théâtre des Bouffes Parisiens.\n\nThis list does not include terms that are vague and merely descriptive, such as 'comic opera', 'sacred opera', 'tragic opera' or 'one-act opera' etc. Original language terms are given to avoid the ambiguities that would be caused by English translations.\n\nThe following cover other forms of entertainment that existed around the time of the appearance of the first operas in Italy at the end of the 16th century, which were influential in the development of the art form:\n"}
{"id": "311396", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=311396", "title": "Lists of endangered languages", "text": "Lists of endangered languages\n\nThe following lists of endangered languages are mainly based on the definitions used by UNESCO. In order to be listed, a language must be classified as \"endangered\" in a cited academic source. Researchers have concluded that in less than one hundred years, almost half of the languages known today will be lost forever.\n\nSIL Ethnologue (2005) lists 473 out of 6,909 living languages inventorized (6.8%) as \"nearly extinct\", indicating cases where \"only a few elderly speakers are still living\"; this figure dropped to 6.1% as of 2013.\n\nIn order to judge if a language is endangered, the number of speakers is less important than their age distribution. There are languages in Indonesia reported with as many as two million native speakers alive now, but all of advancing age, with little or no transmission to the young. On the other hand, while there are only 30,000 Ladin speakers left, almost all children still learn it as their mother tongue, thus Ladin is not currently endangered. Similarly, the Hawaiian language has only about 1,000 speakers but it has stabilized at this number, and there is now school instruction in the language, from preschool through the 12th grade. Thus the language is classified as merely vulnerable.\n\nWhile there are somewhere around six or seven thousand languages on Earth today, about half of them have fewer than about 3,000 speakers. Experts predict that even in a conservative scenario, about half of today's languages will become extinct within the next fifty to one hundred years.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "12829095", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12829095", "title": "Mick Paynter", "text": "Mick Paynter\n\nMichael Kenneth (Mick) Paynter (born 1948, Cornwall, United Kingdom) is a retired Cornish civil servant, trade union activist, and poet. Apart from a period of study at the University of Newcastle, his home has always been in St Ives (Cornish \"Porthia\").\n\nHe is a member of Gorseth Kernow, and was initiated as a bard under the Bardic name \"Skogynn Pryv\" (Worm's Fool) in 2003 on passing a Cornish language examination after four years of study, largely conducted during train journeys as a trade union representative. The name derives from the nickname of a smuggler's assistant in a local story involving outwitting a Customs man, and was chosen as appropriate as he worked for 32 years in the Inland Revenue. He was Deputy Grand Bard from September 2006, and was installed as Grand Bard in September 2009 until he handed over to Maureen Fuller (Steren Mor) at the end of the Camelford Gorsedd on 1 September 2012. Member of the Cornish Language Board (Kesva an Taves Kernewek) 2006-2015. Chairman Bewnans Kernow 2009-2012,Treasurer Bewnans Kernow 2012-2016.\n\nAs well as contributions to anthologies, he has written three collections of poetry in Cornish with English translations, and is Cornish Language Editor of \"Poetry Cornwall / Bardhonyaeth Kernow\". His poetry combines the easy flow of colloquial Cornish with a variety of influences ranging from Afro-American song to Primo Levi and early Celtic literature. He is a frequent contributor to magazines such as \"Scryfa\" and \"Poetry Cornwall / Bardhonyeth Kernow\". His collection \"A Worm's Folly\" received a nomination in the 2012 Holyer An Gof literary awards.\nHe was elected President St Ives Old Cornwall Society at its 2014 AGM and continued until the AGM 2017, he was succeeded by Margaret Stevens.\n\nCached\n\nfrom: West Briton, 9 September 2010 \n\"Wedding Fair demonstrates proper Cornish ceremony\", Article in St Ives Times & Echo,12 June 2015\n"}
{"id": "25862612", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25862612", "title": "Moovalur Ramamirtham", "text": "Moovalur Ramamirtham\n\nMoovalur Ramamirtham () (1883–1962) was a Tamil social reformer, author, and political activist of the Dravidian Movement, who worked for the abolition of the \"Devadasi\" system in the Madras Presidency. She was born in Thiruvarur, and was brought up at moovalur a village near mayiladhuthurai.hence she was called commonly known as moovalur ramamirtham ammaiyar. She was the author of the 1936 novel \"Dasigalin Mosavalai alladhu madhi pettra minor\" (lit. Devadasis' web of deceit or the minor grown wise) which exposed the plight of the devadasis. Originally a supporter of the nationalist Indian National Congress, she became a member of Periyar E. V. Ramasamy's Self-Respect Movement after Periyar left the Congress in 1925. In 1930, she supported Muthulakshmi Reddi's failed attempt to abolish the Devadasi system in the Presidency through legislation. She took part in the Anti-Hindi agitations of 1937-40 and in November 1938, was jailed for six weeks for participating in the agitations. The public awareness created by her novel and her continuous campaign to abolish the devadasi system, were instrumental in the passage of the Madras Devadasi (Prevention of Dedication) Act or the Devadasi Abolition Bill, which outlawed the practice in 1947. In 1949, she parted ways with Periyar, when he married Maniammai, a woman much younger than he was. She became a supporter of the Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam (DMK), a new party started by Periyar's protégé C. N. Annadurai. She remained a DMK supporter till her death in 1962. In her memory, the Government of Tamil Nadu has instituted the \"Moovalur Ramamirtham Ammal Ninaivu Marriage Assistance Scheme\" - a social welfare scheme to provide financial assistance to poor women.\n\nShe was married to Suyambu Pillai an accomplished musician.She had two sons and a daughter. Unfortunately the first son and the daughter died at very early age.This shock converted her to atheism. She lost faith and belief in god and became a follower of Periyar. Her surviving son Chellappa was settled in mayuram. Married to Rajapadmavathy he had two sons (Selvaraj and Mohan) and two daughters (Vimala and Mallika); settled in Chennai.\n"}
{"id": "37811394", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37811394", "title": "Negro (lead pencil)", "text": "Negro (lead pencil)\n\nNegro is the name of an artist's drawing medium, consisting of black pencil lead often encased in a wooden or paper tool. Its history and uses are common knowledge among illustrators and historians interested in illustrative art. The word \"Negro\", translates to \"black\" in Spanish and Italian, and is a term commonly used to describe artists' media and pigments that are black or dark in color.\n\nNegro lead was originally composed of a mixture of wax and charcoal and was often used in combination with heavily textured coquille paper. The intention was to create sturdy pencil line art which was dark enough to be reproduced with early photographic technology. It was used as a replacement for lithographic printmaking, just as pen and ink line art essentially took the place of intaglio in late 19th-century illustration.\n\nWhile the name is used in the artistic sense, the word \"Negro\" literally, depictions of stylized African natives have been used in marketing campaigns and product packaging. One of the original producers of negro pencils was the Koh-i-Noor company, however those manufactured by the company today are composed of lead that is slightly less dark and waxy than the originals. Cretacolor produces what they call Nero pencils, which are similar in composition. Prismacolor also manufactures a lead-based black pencil that is very close in composition.\n"}
{"id": "16001248", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16001248", "title": "Nzanyi language", "text": "Nzanyi language\n\nNzanyi (also known as Njanyi, Nzangi, Njai, Njeny, Zani, Zany, Jeng, Jenge, Njei, Njeing, Kobotshi) is an Afro-Asiatic language spoken in Nigeria in Adamawa State in the Maiha LGA, and along the border in Cameroon. Dialects are Dede, Hoode, Lovi, Magara, Maiha, Mutidi, Nggwoli, Paka, and Rogede.\n"}
{"id": "18311159", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18311159", "title": "Old Church Slavonic grammar", "text": "Old Church Slavonic grammar\n\nOld Church Slavonic is an inflectional language with moderately complex verbal and nominal systems.\n\nThe nominal case category distinguishes 7 cases for nouns, 6 for pronouns and adjectives (no vocative):\n\nNouns belonging to this declension class are generally masculines ending in -ъ in the nominative singular (\"bogъ\", \"gradъ\", \"rodъ\"). The only exception are the nouns in \"-ъ\" that inflect as u-stem masculines.\n\nSometimes (but not yet obligatorily, in contrast to later Slavic languages), in the accusative singular, the beginnings of a difference between an animate and inanimate subgender can be seen, as the genitive may occasionally be used instead of the accusative for animate objects (\"raba\" beside \"rabъ\").\n\n<br>\nNouns with the suffix -(j)an-in-ъ (\"graždaninъ\") also belong to this declension class in the singular, but in the plural they lose the \"-in-\" interfix and conform to the consonantal paradigm (\"graždane, graždanъ, graždanem, graždany, graždane, graždanexъ, graždany).\n\nNouns belonging to this declension class are neuters ending in -o in the nominative singular (\"selo\", \"lěto\", \"město\"). The only exception are the few neuters that are inflected as s-stems.\n\nNouns belonging to this declension class are masculines ending in -ь preceded by a palatal in the nominative singular (\"vračь\", \"kralь\", \"košь\").\n\nThis paradigm encompasses nouns such as \"krai\" that don't appear to be ending in a palatal, but are in fact underlyingly combinations like \"krajь\" and so undergo this declension (\"kraj -ь\", \"kraj -a\").\n\nNouns ending in agentive suffixes -tel-ь and -ar-ь also belong to this class (\"učitelь, učitelja, učitelju...\", \"mytarь, mytarja, mytarju...\").\n\nThe jo-stem declension class encompasses neuters ending in \"-e\" (\"lože\", \"polje\", \"molenьe\").\n\nNouns belonging to this declension class are feminines ending in -a preceded by a hard, non-palatal consonant (\"žena\").\n\nAlso belonging to this paradigm are the rare masculines ending in \"-a\" (\"sluga\", \"vojevoda\").\n\nNoun belonging to this declension class are feminines ending in -a preceded by a soft, palatal consonant (\"straža\", \"svešta\", \"mrěža\").\n\nThis paradigm also encompasses feminines ending in -i (\"rabyni\", \"bogyni\"), -ica (\"děvica\") and -ьni- (\"rizьnica\"), and also masculines ending in \"-a\" preceded by a palatal (\"junoša\").\n\nNouns belonging to this declension class are masculines ending in -ь preceded by a hard, non-palatal consonant (\"črьvь\", \"gospodь\", \"pǫtь\"). The only exception are a limited number of such nouns belonging to the n-stem paradigm.\n\nNouns belonging to the i-stem feminine declension are feminines ending in -ь in the nominative singular (\"rěčь, \"noštь\", \"tvarь\").\n\nThe only exception is the noun \"krъvь\" which undergoes ъv-stem (ū-stem) declension.\n\nNouns belonging to this declension are a rather small group of masculines: činъ, domъ, ledъ, medъ, mirъ, polъ, sanъ, synъ, volъ, vrъxъ.\n\nNouns belonging to the ū-stem declension (also known as -ъv- declension, or v-stem declension) are: buky, brady, cěly, crьky, horǫgy, loky, ljuby, neplody, prěljuby, smoky, svekry, žrьny, kry (this last form is attested in Psalterium Sinaiticum; older sources list the accusative form \"krъvь\" as a lemma).\n\nNouns belonging to this declension class are the following masculines: dьnь, jelenь, jęčьmenь, kamy, korenь, plamy, remenь, sęženь, stepenь.\n\nNouns belonging to this declension class are the following neuters: brěmę, čismę, imę, pismę, plemę, sěmę, slěmę, těmę, vrěmę.\n\nNouns belonging to this declension class are the following neuters: čudo, divo, drěvo, kolo, nebo, tělo, slovo and also uxo and oko which have dual forms like i-stems.\n\nThe t-stem (also known as nt-stem) paradigm encompasses neuters denoting a young of an animal or human: otročę, agnę, kozьlę, kljusę, osьlę, ovьčę, telę, žrěbę etc.\n\nr-stem feminines are the nouns mati and dъšti.\n\nJust as the first and second person pronouns, the third person pronoun is commonly used only in oblique cases. Nominative singular forms are not attested in the OCS corpus, and are reconstructed. In the East South Slavic dialectal area where OCS originated, a suppletive nominative singular stem of the demonstrative \"tъ\" ('that') is used, elsewhere \"onъ\" ('that one there, yon'), or very rarely \"sь\" ('this').\n\nBy attaching the enclitic particle \"že\" to the forms of *i one obtains the relative pronoun: \"iže\" ('he who'), \"ježe\" ('the (female) one to whom'), \"jejuže\" ('the two of whom'), etc.\n\nWhen following prepositions, these pronouns take a prothetic \"n-\", hence \"kъ n'imъ\" ('to them') instead of \"*imъ\", \"na n'emь\" ('on him'), etc. This is a remnant of final -m/n in the PIE prepositions *kom (cf. Latin cum, Sanskrit kám), \n\nThe reflexive pronoun has only singular oblique forms, which is the state of affairs inherited from PIE *swé. The reflexive pronoun refers to the subject as a whole, and can be translated as English \"-self\" (myself, yourself, himself etc.)\n\nAs mentioned, the third person pronoun *i participates in the formation of the relative pronoun by appending the indeclinable enclitic \"že\". Unlike the third person pronoun, however, the nominative case forms do occur. Similarly, a prothetic \"n-\" occurs when following prepositions, e.g., \"vъ n'ьže\" ('in which').\n\nThe interrogative pronoun ('who?, what?') has singular-only forms, with the masculine and feminine forms syncretized. Variant forms of \"čьto\" occurring in some of the oblique cases have been listed in parentheses.\n\nThe interrogative adjective, sometimes also labelled as the interrogative pronoun ('which?, what sort of?'), also has some variant forms listed in parentheses.\n\nThe possessive interrogative adjective, sometimes also labelled as the possessive interrogative pronoun ('whose?'), follows the same declension.\nThe interrogative pronouns \"kъto, čьto\" can also have the indefinite meanings of 'anybody', 'anything' respectively.\n\nThe prefix \"ně-\" imparts an indefinite meaning to the word to which it is attached: thus \"kъto\" ('who?') becomes \"někъto\" ('someone'), and \"čьto\" ('what?') becomes \"něčьto\" ('something'). Similarly, the prefix \"ni-\" imparts a negative meaning: \"nikъto\" ('no one'), \"ničьto\" ('nothing'). A prepositions may come between prefix and base word:\n\nOCS adjectives can be in two forms: short and long, corresponding to indefinite and definite meaning respectively. The long form is generally used only attributively, whereas the short form is predicative in nature. So, e.g., \"člověkъ dobrъ\" \"a good man, man is good\" whilst \"člověkъ dobryi\" \"the good man, the man who is good\".\n\nIndefinite adjectives are inflected as the corresponding nouns of the primary declension, e.g., \"novъ\" as \"rabъ\", \"nova\" as \"žena\", \"novo\" as \"selo\", \"ništь\" as \"vračь\", \"ništa\" as \"duša\", \"nište\" as \"polje\".\n\nDefinite adjectives (also known as compound, long, or pronominal forms of adjective) are formed by suffixing to the indefinite form the anaphoric third-person pronoun \"jь\" (spelled as \"i\" in OCS orthography), \"ja, je\" as shown in the table.\n\nThere are three levels of adjective gradation in OCS:\n\n\n\nThe superlative is formed:\n\nThe absolute superlative is formed:\n\nAll ordinals are inflected like the corresponding adjectives.\n\nThe present tense is formed by adding present-tense endings onto the present tense stem, which itself is sometimes hidden due to sound changes that have occurred in the past (more common verbs are listed):\n\n\nThere are several classes of verbs:\n\n1. e-type verbs add the interfix \"-e-\" to the present stem (except in front of \"-ǫ\") and the endings:\n2. i-type verbs exhibit the same set of endings, but this time the interfix is \"-i-\" (except in front of \"-ǫ\" and \"-ę\"). In the first person singular one finds the processes of iotation (\"k/c + j > č, g/z + j > ž, x/s + j > š, l + j > lj, n + j > nj, t + j > št, d + j > žd\") and epenthesis (\"bj > blj, pj > plj, mj > mlj, vj > vlj\"):\n3. The athematic verbs \"byti\", \"dati\", \"věděti\", \"iměti\" and \"jasti\" form the present tense irregularly:\nOne should distinguish the verbs \"iměti\" (\"imamь, imaši, imatъ\"), \"imati\" (\"jemljǫ, jemleši, jemletъ\") and \"jęti\" (\"imǫ, imeši, imetъ\"). Exceptional is also the verb \"xotěti\" which exhibits iotation even though it's not an i-type verb (\"xoštǫ, xošteši, xoštetъ\").\n\nThe asigmatic aorist (also called root or simple aorist) was named after the loss of the phoneme /s/ in the inflection (AGr. \"sigma\"), i.e. there is no \"VsV > VxV\" change (intervocalic /s/ yielding /x/). Over time, the asigmatic aorist became increasingly marked as an archaic language feature and was eventually replaced by the other two aorist formations.\n\nThe asigmatic aorist was formed by adding to the infinitive stem of e-type verbs with stem ending in a consonant (i.e. verbs with the infix \"-nǫ-\", which is dropped before the aorist endings, and verbs with the null infix) the following endings: -ъ, -e, -e; -omъ, -ete, -ǫ; -ově, -eta, -ete.\nThe sigmatic or s-aorist was formed in the following ways:\n\n\nThe new aorist (also known as ox-aorist) is formed by suffixing to the infinitive stem of e-type verbs ending in a consonant (verbs with the interfix \"-nǫ-\" and verbs with the null interfix) the interfix \"-os-\" (\"-ox\") and onto it the endings -ъ, -, -; -omъ, -te, -ę; -ově, -ta, -te. Intervocalic sigma \"s\" changes into \"x\".\n\nThe 2nd and the 3rd person singular forms are not attested and thus the asigmatic aorist forms are taken as a replacement.\nThere are two ways of forming the imperfect:\n\n1. If the infinitive stems ends in \"-a\" or \"-ě\", the interfix -ax- is appended (which changes to -aš- according to the first palatalization in front of \"e\") and onto it, the endings of the asigmatic aorist: -ъ, -e, -e; -omъ, -ete, -ǫ; -ově, -eta, -ete.\n2. The other way of forming the imperfect, applying to all other verbal stems, is by adding onto the present stem the interfix -ěax- (which, in accordance with the first palatalization, is changed to \"-ěaš-\" in front of \"e\") and onto it the endings of asigmatic aorist: -ъ, -e, -e; -omъ, -ete, -ǫ; -ově, -eta, -ete.\nBoth of these imperfect formations often occur side by side in verbs with stem alternation:\n\nIn the texts of the OCS canon the forms are often contracted, so that ěax becomes ěx and aax becomes ax. An illustrating example is in Chernorizets Hrabar's famous work \"O pismenex\" \"An Account of Letters\":<br>\n\nSome forms exhibit sound changes, namely palatalization or iotation in front of \"ě\", yat thus turning into \"a\". The same applies if the stem ends in \"j\" which is then reduced in front of yat and yat again changes into \"a\":\n\nThat the second form and not the first is the original one (the first being formed by the change of yat to \"a\") is confirmed by the imperfect paradigm of the verb \"byti\":\nThe present active participle is formed by adding the following endings to the present stem:\n\n1. e-type verbs and athematic verbs:\n\n2. e-type verbs whose present stem ends in a palatal:\n\n3. i-type verbs:\n\nThe present passive participle is formed by suffixing to the present stem the endings -o/e/i + m + ъ/a/o (masculine, feminine, neuter):\n\n1. e-type verbs and athematic verbs:\n\n2. e-type verbs whose stem ends in a palatal:\n\n3. i-type verbs:\n\nThe past active participle is formed by suffixing to the infinitive stem the following endings:\n\n1. e-type verbs and athematic verbs:\n\n2. i-type verbs exhibit epenthetic \"v\", which eliminates hiatus:\n\nThe latter i-type verbs have twofold forms of this participle - the mentioned one of older origin, and a newer one which arose due to analogical leveling:\n\n3. Verbs with liquid metathesis form this participle from its older stem form:\n\n4. Irregular participles:\n\nThe l-participle (also known as the resultative participle or second past active participle) is formed by adding to the infinitive stem the interfix -l- and the endings ъ/a/o. If the stem ends in \"-t\" or \"-d\", this consonant is dropped.\n\nThe past passive participle is formed by suffixing to the infinitive stem the following endings:\n\n1. Verbs with stem ending in a consonant, \"-y\" or \"-i\":\n\n2. Verbs with stem ending in \"-a\" or \"-ě\":\n\n3. Verbs with stem ending in \"-ę\", \"-u\", \"-i\" and \"-ě\" (obtained by liquid metathesis):\n\nOf the latter verbs, those with stem ending in \"-i\" (\"viti, biti\" etc.) can also form the past passive participle like the verbs in the first group: \"bitъ\" or \"bijenъ\", \"vitъ\" or \"vijenъ\" etc.).\n\nThe perfect is formed by combining the l-participle with the imperfective present forms of the auxiliary verb \"byti\".\n\n\nThe pluperfect can be formed in multiple ways, by combining the l-participle with the perfect, imperfect or aorist formation of the auxiliary verb \"byti\".\n\nThe future tense is usually expressed using the present tense form of the perfective verb. Imperfective verbs form the future tense by combining the auxiliary verb (\"byti, xotěti, načęti, iměti\") and the infinitive.\n\nThe future perfect is formed by combining the l-participle with the perfective present of the auxiliary verb \"byti\".\n\nThe conditional (or conditional-optative) modal formation is formed by combining the l-participle with special modal forms of the auxiliary verb \"byti\" (with unattested dual forms):\n\nAn alternative conditional is formed with the perfective aorist forms of \"byti\":\n\nThese are original adverbs with difficult to guess etymology and origin.\n\n\nPronominal adverbs are derived by suffixing pronouns (e.g., \"ov\" + \"amo\" = ovamo, \"kъ\" + \"de\" = \"kъde\"):\n\nNominal adverbs are derived from nominals or turn by conversion to adverbs which are in fact inflective lexemes with adverbial semantics.\n\nModal adverbs are created with the suffixes -o or -ě (the endings of accusative and locative singular neuter gender respectively), with no difference in meanings between suffixes, although some adverbs have only the forms in \"-o\" (\"veselo\"), and some in \"-ě\" (\"javě\").\n\nModal adverbs could also be formed deadjectivally by means of the interfix -ьsk- and the ending -y (by origin, the instrumental plural ending; e.g., \"slověnьsky\").\n\nAdverbs could also be formed with the suffix -ь (\"pravь\", \"različь\") and are by origin probably inherited Proto-Slavic accusative forms.\n\nFrequently occurring are the adverbialized a-stem instrumentals such as \"jednьnojǫ\" and also adverbially used oblique cases.\n\nLocative adverbs are by origin mostly petrified locative case forms of nouns: \"gorě\", \"dolě\", \"nizu\", and the same can be said for temporal adverbs: \"zimě\", \"polu dьne\".\n\nThe primary and non-derived prepositions are of PIE and PSl. heritage:\n\nThe secondary prepositions are derived from adverbial expressions: \"vьslědъ\" from \"vь slědъ\", \"prěžde\" is a comparative form of \"prědъ\" etc.\n\nConjunctions and particles are not easily separable because they sometimes function as an intensifier, and sometimes as a conjunction.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "92740", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=92740", "title": "Omotic languages", "text": "Omotic languages\n\nThe Omotic languages are group of languages spoken in southwestern Ethiopia. The Ge'ez script is used to write some of the Omotic languages, the Latin script for some others. They are fairly agglutinative and have complex tonal systems (for example, the Bench language). The languages have around 6.2 million speakers. The group is generally classified as belonging to the Afroasiatic language family, but this is disputed by some.\n\nThe North and South Omotic branches (\"Nomotic\" and \"Somotic\") are universally recognized. The primary debate is over the placement of the Mao languages. Bender (2000) classifies Omotic languages as follows:\n\nApart from terminology, this differs from Fleming (1976) in including the Mao languages, whose affiliation had originally been controversial, and in abolishing the \"Gimojan\" group. There are also differences in the subclassification of Ometo, which is not covered here.\n\nHayward (2003) separates out the Mao languages as a third branch of Omotic and breaks up Ometo–Gimira:\n\n\nBlench (2006) gives a more agnostic classification:\n\n\nBosha† is unclassified; \"Ethnologue\" lists it as a dialect of Kafa but notes it may be a distinct language.\n\nOmotic is generally considered the most divergent branch of the Afroasiatic languages. Greenberg (1963) had classified it as the Western branch of Cushitic. Fleming (1969) argued that it should instead be classified as an independent branch of Afroasiatic, a view which Bender (1971) established to most linguists' satisfaction, though a few linguists maintain the West Cushitic position or that only South Omotic forms a separate branch, with North Omotic remaining part of Cushitic. Blench (2006) notes that Omotic shares honey-related vocabulary with the rest of Afroasiatic but not cattle-related vocabulary, suggesting that the split occurred before the advent of pastoralism. A few scholars have raised doubts that the Omotic languages are part of the Afroasiatic language family at all, and Theil (2006) proposes that Omotic be treated as an independent family. However, the general consensus, based primarily on morphological evidence, is that membership in Afroasiatic is well established.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "24470058", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24470058", "title": "Pius Fidelis Pinto", "text": "Pius Fidelis Pinto\n\nPius Fidelis Pinto (born 24 April 1960) is an Indian priest and research scholar of Christianity in Canara, India. He is noted for his research work and publications on the history of Konkani Christians of Canara. He has written eight books and presented 36 research papers at various events across the world.\n\nPius Fidelis Pinto was born on 24 April 1960 in Gurpur, eight miles north-east of Mangalore, to Frederick Pinto and Stella Pinto (née Lobo). His family is of Mangalorean Catholic descent. He joined the St. Joseph's Seminary in Mangalore in 1975. Pinto completed his Bachelor of Arts (B.A.) degree in 1981 from Mysore University, Master of Arts (M.A.) degree in 1983 from Karnatak University (Dharwad), and Bachelor of Theology (B.Th.) degree in 1986 from Pontifical Urbaniana University (Rome). He was ordained as a priest in 1986. Later, he completed his Doctor of Philosophy (PhD) degree in History in 1998 from Mysore University.\n\nPinto has done vast research both in India and abroad. He has been awarded research scholarships by \"Fundação Oriente\" (Lisbon); Charles Wallace Trust (United Kingdom), and University of Basel (Switzerland). Pinto is fluent in English, Konkani, Kannada, Tulu, Hindi, and can read/write but not speak Portuguese. He is also the managing trustee of Samanvaya Prakashan, Mangalore.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "8641851", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8641851", "title": "Proclamation of Islaz", "text": "Proclamation of Islaz\n\nThe Proclamation of Islaz () was the program adopted on 9 June 1848 by Romanian revolutionaries. It was written by Ion Heliade Rădulescu. On 11 June, under pressure from the masses, Domnitor Gheorghe Bibescu was forced to accept the terms of the proclamation and recognise the provisional revolutionary government.\n\nThe Proclamation of Islaz has the form and value of a constitutional act. Between these 22 provisions are notably:\n\n\nThe location of Islaz (now in Teleorman County, then in Romanați County) was a small port on the Danube with some commercial significance, which, unlike the ports of Turnu Măgurele, Giurgiu and Calafat, was not under the direct control of the Turks.\n"}
{"id": "35666491", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35666491", "title": "Ram Sarup Ankhi", "text": "Ram Sarup Ankhi\n\nRam Sarup Ankhi () was a Sahitya Akademi Award winning Punjabi writer, novelist and poet of Punjab. He started as a poet but ended up as a fiction writer. He received \"Sarb Shresht Sahitkaar\" award in 2009.\n\nAnkhi was born on 28 August 1932, in the village of Dhanaula in barnala district of Indian Punjab. He left his college-study and did agriculture and then got a job as a school teacher and got retired in 1990. He won many awards like Sahitya Akademi award for his novel 'Kothe Kharak Singh' in 1987\n\nHe started his career as a poet but ended as fiction writer. There are 15 novels, eight-story-books and five poem collections to his credit. He mostly wrote about the village life of Punjab; about farmer suicide and indebtedness and drug addiction etc. His well-known works includes \"Kothe Kharhak Singh\" (1985), \"Partapi\" (1993), \"Dulle Di Dhab\" (2003), \"Salphas\", \"Kanak Da Qatleam\". \"Malhe Jharhian\" (1988) and \"Apni Mitti De Rukh\" (2004) are the autobiographies.\n\nHe received the Sahitya Akademi Award given by Sahitya Akademi, India's National Academy of Letters in 1987 for his novel \"Kothe Kharhak Singh\". He received many more including, Kartar Singh Dhaliwal award of 1992 from Panjabi Sahit Akademi, Ludhiana and Sarb Shresht Sahitkaar award in 2009.\n\nMany of his books and short stories are adopted into films.\nHis Gelo novel is made into a Punjabi feature film directed by Manbhawan Singh releasing on 5 August 2016.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "5333076", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5333076", "title": "Red belt (martial arts)", "text": "Red belt (martial arts)\n\nA red belt is one of several colored belts used in some martial arts where each practitioner's level is marked by the color of the belt, these are most commonly those of Kodokan style Judo origin. Like the more commonly known Black Belt, its use varies between arts, with most using it for the style founder, Grandmaster or other high rank, while others use it as the immediately pre–black belt rank or even to denote a beginner who holds no rank. In some schools, a red belt signifies ninth or tenth degree Dan rank, where the tenth degree is the highest rank attainable.\n\nIn karate, even though grandmasters and non–black belts (according to whatever system) may both wear a \"red belt\", the difference is obvious. Not only is there a clear difference in age, but the respective belts are different, as well: Dan rank belts are broader, with kyu (pre–black belt) rank belts normally having a width of 4 centimeters and dan rank belts having a width of 5 centimeters. Also, the grandmaster's red belt is usually darker in color and embroidered with the person's name and style (as customary for dan rank belts).\n\n"}
{"id": "52446962", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52446962", "title": "Regina Yaou", "text": "Regina Yaou\n\nRegina Yaou (sometimes N'doufou) (1955 in Dabou – 4 November 2017) was a writer from Ivory Coast.\n\nYaou was raised by her aunt in a literary family, and wrote her first poems between the ages of twelve and fourteen. She attended the technical high school in Cocody, where in 1977 she participated in a literary contest organized by the publishing house Nouvelles éditions africaines; this led to the creation of her first work, a novella entitled \"La Citadine\" which has remained unpublished, but which won a prize in the contest. After leaving school she worked for a few years before returning to her studies in 1982; she attended the University of Tours and spent a year at the Université Félix Houphouët-Boigny in Cocody. She has also lived in Akrou, in the Jacqueville Department.\n\nYaou completed her first novel, \"Lezou Marie ou les écueils de la vie\", in 1977, presenting it to an editor in 1981 and publishing it in 1982. She followed it with \"La révolte d'Affiba\" in 1985; she has since written numerous other novels. From 1991 until 1993 she was in the United States as a guest lecturer at a number of universities. She then returned to Ivory Coast, where in addition to her literary activities she held a number of other positions; in 2005 she returned to the United States once more, for two years of comparative study of the similarities between the stories of the southern United States and those of her home country. In 2009 she returned again to Ivory Coast.\n\nBeginning in the 1990s, Yaou published a number of works under pseudonyms such as Joëlle Anskey and Ruth Owotchi. Her work generally focuses on themes of modern life and the role of women in Ivorian society, and includes discussion of domestic violence, infidelity, and maternity, among other issues.\n\nShe died on 4 November 2017.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "25260680", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25260680", "title": "Sadhu Singh Hamdard", "text": "Sadhu Singh Hamdard\n\nSadhu Singh Hamdard (Sadhu Singh Saini) (1918-1984) was a well-known freedom fighter and journalist of Punjab, excelling in both Urdu and Punjabi and an innovative poet, who carried in his name the pseudonym 'Hamdard', \"sharing with all the pangs of their hearts,\" \"friendly towards all.\"\n\nAs a high school student, he was active in Chaudhri Sher Jang's group of the radicals in the Yug Paltai Dal, party to impart a radical turn to the age. The Dal was formed in 1939-40 by Giani Harbans Singh of Sarhala Khurd in Hoshiarpur district. The Dal ceased to exist after the arrest and execution of its founder Harbans Singh, Sadhu Singh then joined the Shiromani Gurdwara Parbandhak Committee taking over its publicity wing.\n\nIn 1944, Sadhu Singh entered the field of journalism. He took up editorship of the up to Daily Ajit (Urdu) and retained this position till 1957. In 1955, he also became chief editor of the Punjabi Ajit. The birth of the Ajit was an entirely new phenomenon in Punjabi journalism. It marked a new era of change and experimentation. In Sadhu Singh's hands, Punjabi journalism matured and reached new heights. The Ajit and Sadhu Singh Hamdard became synonymous names, he had so lovingly nursed the paper. Sadhu Singh set its permanent seal on Punjabi journalism. He created a new taste in Punjabi writing and introduced several new techniques. His services to Punjabi journalism, to what he did to give it a new face and format, were widely acknowledged.\n\nIn 1963, the Punjab Government honoured him with the title of Shiromani Pattarkar (the journalist of the year). He was chairman of the reception committee of All India Newspapers Editors Conference held at Jalandhar in 1973. He also edited two monthly magazines Tasvir and Drishtl.\n\nWithin his lifetime, Sadhu Singh converted all his property and assets into a public trust for the advancement of Punjabi culture and letters.\n\nDr Sadhu Singh Hamdard was also awarded the title of Padma Shri by the Central Government in January 1984, but he surrendered the honour in protest against the army action in the precincts of the Golden Temple, Amritsar, in June 1984. Sadhu Singh Hamdard died a month later at Jalandhar on 29 July 1984.\n\nAs a poet, Sadhu Hamdard is especially remembered for popularising the Ghazal form in Punjabi. His collection of Punjabi poems in the genre, entitled \"Ghazal\" won him a first prize from the Punjab Government in 1963. An anthology of his prose writings assembled under the title \"Akkhin Ditha Rus\", a travelogue on his visits to Soviet Russia in 1967, also won the Punjab Government's award in 1972-73. He also wrote some novels built around heroic episodes from Sikh history as well as some short stories.\n\nGuru Nanak Dev University, Amritsar, awarded him the Ph.D. degree for his thesis on \"Origin and Development of the Punjabi Ghazal.\" He was a fellow of that University and member of its Syndicate. He was also a member of the Advisory Committee of the Languages Department and Press Advisory Committee of the Punjab Government, and of the Indian Academy of Letters (1973–1978). He was also president of the Kendri Punjabi Lekhak Sabha during 1972-79 and founder-president of Bazm-I-Adab (Urdu).\n\n1. The Ajit, Punjabi, Jalandhar, 29 July 1995.\n\n2. Suba Singh, Punjabi Pattarkari da Itihas, Chandigarh, 1978.\n"}
{"id": "39315849", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39315849", "title": "Semiotics of fashion", "text": "Semiotics of fashion\n\nSemiotics of Fashion is the study of fashion and how humans signify specific social and cultural positions through dress. Ferdinand de Saussure defined semiotics as \"the science of the life of signs in society\". Semiotics is the study of signs and just as we can interpret signs and construct meaning from text we can also construct meaning from visual images such as fashion. Fashion is a language of signs that non-verbally converse meanings about individuals and groups. It holds a symbolic and communicative role having the capacity to express one’s unique style, identity, profession, social status, and gender or group affiliation.\n\nClothing is a non-verbal sign that can be interpreted differently depending on the context, situation or culture. It’s in this way that the semiotics of fashion can be linked to social semiotics. According to Fred Davis, “ The chief difficulty of understanding fashion in its apparent vagaries is the lack of exact knowledge of the unconscious symbolisms attaching to forms, colors, textures, postures, and other expressive elements of a given cultures. The difficulty is increased by the fact that some of the expressive elements tend to have quite different symbolic references in different areas. \" The meanings that are constructed through fashion largely depend on culturally accepted codes. This can be demonstrated in the choice of color for wedding ceremonies across different cultures. For example, a white dress is the traditional attire for a wedding ceremony in the western culture; however in the Asian culture the color white is associated with death and would be more appropriately worn at a funeral.\n\nSpecific dress codes are identified by individuals within a culture and convey a message to help categorize and create meaning. A uniform is a specific type of clothing that is worn to associate that person with an organization, trade or rank. Uniforms are symbolic and their meanings are arbitrary, in that they stand for their referent based upon agreement or habit of individuals within that culture. In western society a policeman will typically wear variations of a blue suit and this generally symbolizes law, security, and authority. Doctors wear white lab coats to represent their profession in health and also to suggest sanitation. Nuns wear black and white dresses that associate them with their involvement in religion.\n\nFashion can go beyond symbolizing a profession, it can also communicate ideas about an individuals personality, social status, or religious belonging. The Burka is a head covering worn by Islamic women and signifies their belonging to an Islamic society. Brand name jeans and designer label garments are worn by individuals to represent value or status in a society. Desmond Morris states, \"It is impossible to wear clothes without transmitting social signals.\"\nRoland Barthes was a semiotician, who studied the fashion system and how ideologies are transmitted through dress. The semiotic system is formed by social interests and ideologies, and the fashion system is no different. In our society the ideologies in fashion are often implemented by celebrities or the dominant class. Jackie Kennedy was an important style icon for American women during the 1960s, where her style became a symbol of wealth, power and prestige .\n\nThe fashion system is not static, and as society and social interests change, so do trends and styles in dress. Pants were originally a garment worn by men and signified masculinity, but society evolved and pants became an acceptable garment for both men and women. Pants are no longer confined to signifying masculinity. Society changes and as individuals in that society adapt so do their dress codes and fashion choices. Fashion is a system of signs, whose meanings and significations are constantly shifting and changing depending on the time, place, and culture.\n"}
{"id": "7663150", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7663150", "title": "Sillan language", "text": "Sillan language\n\nThe Sillan language, or Silla, was a Koreanic language spoken in the ancient kingdom of Silla (57 BCE – 935 CE), one of the Three Kingdoms of Korea. \n\nIt is generally accepted that Silla language was similar to that of Goguryeo and Baekje. Literary records of the Silla language, such as \"hyangga\", are more numerous than those for the languages of Goguryeo and Baekje. Sillan is sometimes considered to be synonymous with Old Korean, though that is commonly used as a cover term for all three languages of the Three Kingdoms.\n\nThe modern Korean language is descended from Sillan.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "6516947", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6516947", "title": "Southern Quechua", "text": "Southern Quechua\n\nSouthern Quechua (Quechua: Urin qichwa, ), or simply Quechua (Qichwa or Qhichwa), is the most widely spoken of the major regional groupings of mutually intelligible dialects within the Quechua language family, with about 6.9 million speakers. It is also the most widely spoken indigenous language in the entire New World. The term \"Southern Quechua\" refers to the Quechuan varieties spoken in regions of the Andes south of a line roughly east-west between the cities of Huancayo and Huancavelica in central Peru. It includes the Quechua varieties spoken in the regions of Ayacucho, Cusco and Puno in Peru, in much of Bolivia and parts of north-west Argentina. The most widely spoken varieties are South Bolivian, Cusco, Ayacucho, and Puno (Collao).\n\nIn the traditional classification of the Quechua language family by Alfredo Torero, Southern Quechua is equivalent to Torero's 'Quechua IIc' (or just 'QIIc'). It thus stands in contrast to its many sister varieties within the wider Quechuan family that are spoken in areas north of the Huancayo-Huancavelica line: Central Quechua (Torero's QI) spoken from Huancayo northwards to the Ancash Region; North Peruvian Quechua around Cajamarca and Incahuasi (Torero's IIa); and Kichwa (part of Torero's Quechua IIb).\n\nDialects are Ayacucho Quechua, Cusco Quechua, Puno Quechua (Collao Quechua), North Bolivian Quechua (Apolo Quechua), and South Bolivian Quechua. Santiagueño Quechua in Argentina is divergent, and appears to derive from a mix of dialects, including South Bolivian.\n\nThe most salient distinction between Ayacucho Quechua and the others is that it lacks the aspirated (tʃʰ, pʰ, tʰ, kʰ, qʰ) and ejective (tʃʼ, pʼ, tʼ, kʼ, qʼ) series of stop consonants. The other varieties of Bolivia and Southern Peru taken together have been called Cusco–Collao Quechua (or \"Qusqu–Qullaw\"); however, they are not monolithic. For instance, Bolivian Quechua is morphologically distinct from Cusco and Ayacucho Quechua, while North Bolivian is phonologically quite conservative compared to both South Bolivian and Cusco so there is no bifurcation between Ayacucho and Cusco–Collao.\n\nSantiagueño also lacks the aspirated and ejective series, but it was a distinct development in Argentina. It also maintains remnants of the Quechua \"s–š\" distinction, which has otherwise been lost from Southern Quechua, which suggests other varieties of Quechua in its background.\n\nThe Peruvian linguist Rodolfo Cerrón Palomino has devised a standard orthography intended to be viable for all the different regional forms of Quechua that fall under the umbrella term Southern Quechua. It is a compromise of conservative features in the pronunciations of the various regions that speak forms of Southern Quechua. It has been accepted by many institutions in Peru and Bolivia and is also used on Wikipedia Quechua pages, and by Microsoft in its translations of software into Quechua.\n\nHere are some examples of regional spellings different from the standard orthography:\n\nIn Bolivia, the same standard is used except for \"j\", which is used instead of \"h\" for the sound [h] (like in Spanish).\n\nThe following letters are used for the inherited Quechua vocabulary and for loanwords from Aymara:<br>\na, ch, chh, ch', h, i, k, kh, k', l, ll, m, n, ñ, p, ph, p', q, qh, q', r, s, t, th, t', u, w, y.\n\nInstead of \"sh\" (appearing in the northern and central Quechua varieties), \"s\" is used.<br>\nInstead of \"ĉ\" (appearing in the Quechua varieties of Junín, Cajamarca, and Lambayeque), \"ch\" is used.\n\nThe following letters are used in loanwords from Spanish and other languages (not from Aymara):<br>\nb, d, e, f, g, o.\n\nThe letters e and o are not used for native Quechua words because the corresponding sounds are simply allophones of i and u that appear predictably next to q, qh, and q'. This rule applies to the official Quechua orthography for all varieties. Thus, the spellings and are pronounced [qo] and [qe].\n\nThe letters appear, however, in proper names or words adopted directly from Spanish:<br>\nc, v, x, z; j (in Peru; in Bolivia, it is used instead of h).\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "27886735", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27886735", "title": "Tag (LeapFrog)", "text": "Tag (LeapFrog)\n\nLeapFrog Tag is an electronic handheld stylus that stores audio for proprietary paper books made by LeapFrog Enterprises. When in use the stylus is scanned across the page of a book, activating the stylus to play the prerecorded audio stored inside the stylus. When a word is scanned, for example, the stylus \"reads\" the word aloud to the user. The user can also play various games through this technique. LeapFrog Enterprises introduced it as the successor to the LeapPad which served as a platform for interactive books. The Tag stylus and the proprietary Tag books are primarily targeted to young children learning to read.\n\nThe Tag reader offers an alternative to either audiobooks or a supervisory person reading aloud, chiefly for before children are able to read on a particular level. It can teach phonics and help children develop a sense of independent reading, which, in turn, helps them become better readers.\n\nLeapFrog has developed a number of titles and book sets that target specific phonic skills. These sets can be used as a supplement to support a reading or literacy curriculum currently implemented in the classroom. LeapFrog's Tag reader is accessible to a wide variety of students' learning abilities. Because Tag readers are designed with both full reading and individual word recognition this allows for differentiation. Tag also helps students learning English as a second language\n\nTag styluses have a low initial cost. Each Tag stylus starter system costs around $50.00 when purchased in retail stores which include the Tag stylus, a sampler book, a USB computer connection cable, and software disk. The individual books range anywhere from $10.00 to $20.00 and a variety of titles are available. Each phonics set is around $20.00 and contains 5 books. Leapfrog also sells bundles that can be purchased directly from their webpage that range between $70–$400. Before using the Tag stylus with a book, a software installation is required and an account set up with LeapFrog. Once the initial account is set up, then the Tag stylus must have the desired books' audio files downloaded to it. The stylus can hold multiple books at one time (from 4 to 10, depending on the size of the book and the amount of memory in the stylus). The Tag reader is powered by batteries.\n\nTag requires a Microsoft Windows or Mac OS computer running LeapFrog Connect software to populate the Tag with audio for books. The software downloads book audio from the LeapFrog web site and transmits it to Tag via a USB cable.\n\nThe Tag pen device works with specially made books which include an optical pattern of dots too small to disturb the human reading the book. A stylus touches the book to actuate the Tag device, and the device, through analysis of the printed pattern, divines both the book being read and its exact position within the book. With the book and position known, the Tag device looks up the appropriate audio to play for that location in the book and plays it. This technique for position recognition is patented by Anoto.\n\nTag includes a state machine to facilitate game play on specially-designed pages of books, with games like, \"Find the letter that makes the sound \"k\".\" It also collects statistics on usage to reconnect with the software and present electronic rewards to the learner and help parents monitor learning progress.\n\nTag and the proprietary, compatible books are covered by U.S. Patents 6502756, 6548768, 6666376, 6667695, 6674427, 6732927, 6836555, 7224348, and 7281664.\n"}
{"id": "3013373", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3013373", "title": "Tiebreaker", "text": "Tiebreaker\n\nIn games and sports, a tiebreaker or tiebreak is used to determine a winner from among players or teams that are tied at the end of a contest, or a set of contests.\n\nIn some situations, the tiebreaker may consist of another round of play. For example, if contestants are tied at the end of a quiz game, they each might be asked one or more extra questions, and whoever correctly answers the most from that extra set is the winner. In many sports, teams that are tied at the end of a match compete in an additional period of play called \"overtime\" or \"extra time\". The extra round may also not follow the regular format, e.g. a tiebreak in tennis or a penalty shootout in association football.\n\nIn some sports, tournaments, and playoffs, the tiebreaker is a statistic that is compared to separate contestants who have the same win-loss record. Some competitions, such as the FIFA World Cup, the EuroLeague, the National Basketball Association, the National Hockey League and the National Football League, have a whole set of tiebreaking rules in which a group of statistics between the tied teams are compared, one at a time, to determine the seeding in their respective knockout or playoff tournament.\n\nThe statistics that are compared may include total goals scored, the record between the two tied teams, and other factors. In many of these tiebreaking rules, if the teams remain tied after comparing all of these statistics, then the tie is broken at random using a coin toss or a drawing of lots. Swiss system tournaments use a variety of criteria not found in other types of tournament which exploit features specific to the Swiss system: see tie-breaking in Swiss system tournaments.\n\nIn some sports leagues, a one-game playoff, or occasionally a \"best-of\" series format, may be played instead to break the tie.\n\nSome sports leagues may use tiebreaking rules to help determine which teams who have the same win-loss record are promoted and relegated or have the higher pick in their respective sports draft. These tiebreaking rules may be the same ones used in their respective knockout or playoff tournament, except that the tied team with the worse statistic is the one that is either relegated or receives a higher draft pick. However, in some sports leagues, such as the National Football League, the set of tiebreaking rules to compare the worst-ranked teams is completely different than the rules to determine the playoff teams.\n\nIn association football contests, many matches are allowed to end in a draw, but in cases where a winner must be chosen, there are three methods of deciding this. The usual method is Normal Extra Time, where each team will play two 15-minute periods of extra time (but see also Golden goal). The team that leads at the end of 30 minutes wins the tie. If, at the end of extra time, no winner can be decided, the match goes to a penalty shootout. Occasionally, in matches such as the Community Shield in England, the match can go straight to a penalty shootout after 90 minutes' play has been completed. Alternatively, in tournaments such as the English FA Cup, the match is replayed in its entirety, going through the aforementioned stages of extra time and penalties if the second match is drawn. This method is no longer used from the quarter finals onwards.\n\nIn the National Football League of professional American football, if both teams are tied at the end of regulation, an overtime period is played under modified \"sudden death\" rules. Before the 2017 season, this period was 15 minutes in all games. Since 2017, a 15-minute period has been used only in playoff games (in which a winner \"must\" be decided); overtime in preseason and regular-season games consists of a 10-minute period. If the team that receives the ball first scores a field goal, then the opponent must receive a chance at equalising that score of their own; the first team to score a touchdown or safety wins the game; and once both teams have had possession of the ball in overtime, the first team to score under any legal means, touchdown (offensive or defensive), field goal or safety, wins. If neither team scores before the end of the overtime period, or both teams score one field goal each, the game is considered a draw and ends, and counts as a \"half-win\" in the standings for purposes of winning percentage for both draft order and playoff positioning. However, in the playoffs, true sudden death rules apply from double overtime onwards.\n\nThere is no tie-break for regular season matches in Australian rules football, and both teams earn two points each. \n\nIn the AFL, new rules were introduced for finals in 2016: if there is a tie at the expiration of regulation time, including in the Grand Final, two five minute halves of extra time are played with the teams swapping end after each half. If the match is still tied when extra time has expired, there is a third untimed extra time period under sudden death rules, and the final siren will not sound until the next team scores.\n\nPrior to 1991, if the scores were tied in a finals match after the final siren, the drawn final would be replayed on the following weekend, thus delaying all other finals by one week. \n\nDue to various logistical issues that arose following the drawn 1990 Qualifying Final, the AFL replaced this procedure with extra time (with the exception of the Grand Final) in 1991. Until 2015, if the scores in a finals match were tied when regulation time expired, two five-minute halves of extra time were played until a winner was determined. This procedure was used twice: in the 1994 Second Qualifying Final between North Melbourne and Hawthorn (won by North Melbourne), and the 2007 Second Semi-Final between West Coast and Collingwood (won by Collingwood).\n\nIf the scores were tied after the final siren in the Grand Final, the match would be replayed on the following weekend.\n\nIf a baseball game is tied at the end of the usual nine innings, the game continues into extra innings until an inning ends with one team ahead. Although games are occasionally ended as ties on account of weather or darkness (the latter happened much more often before lights were installed on most professional baseball fields in the 1940s), and some leagues (including Nippon Professional Baseball) allow only a limited number of extra innings before a game ends as a tie, professional baseball in the United States has no such limit. The longest Major League game in history (on May 1, 1920) lasted 26 innings, and a minor-league game in 1981 lasted 33 innings. In some venues, including international baseball, starting with the second extra inning, that inning may begin a full reset of the batting order to the coach's choice with up to two runners already on base, in order to increase the chances of a resolution.\n\nMajor League Baseball uses the term \"tiebreaker\" to refer to one or more additional games played after the scheduled end of the regular season between teams with identical win-loss records in order to determine participants in postseason play.\n\nField target — a precision air rifle shooting sport — uses either a sudden-death or shot count tiebreaker. The sudden-death tiebreaker (usually used to determine a single place such as 3rd when 3 awards are to be given or between two shooters) consists of each tied shooter (order dictated or decided by coin-toss or other technique) shoots at a target (typically a difficult shot such as ½\" at 35 yards). If all shooters in the tie fail, then the target is moved closer. If one shooter hits, then the next shooter(s) who miss are out of the competition. If a round is complete with multiple ties remaining, the target is moved out (made more difficult) and the same procedure is repeated until only one shooter remains. This procedure can then be repeated to determine further placings among the losers of the previous round.\n\nIn cases where multiple places are to be determined (as in five people tied for first place), one approach is to have each shooter make several shots (\"n\" − 1 or more with \"n\" being the number of tied shooters). If all shooters miss all shots, the target is moved in (made easier); similarly, if all shooters hit on all shots, the target is moved out (made more difficult). If some variation in hits exists after a round, the top score gets the highest placing while those with identical scores can have a sudden-death shootout or a repeat of the multiple shot shootout (typically with a more difficult target) to determine other placings.\n\nIf the scores are level when all the balls are potted in a frame of snooker, the black is \"respotted\" (placed back on the table, on its designated spot) and the cue ball put \"in hand\". The referee will then toss a coin, and the winner of the coin toss decides who will take the first shot. Play then continues until the black is potted or another frame-ending situation occurs.\n\nThe term \"tiebreaker\" is sometimes used loosely outside the world of sports — for example, for an innovative weapon or strategy introduced in a war where the two opposing armies are evenly matched, a decisive political move introduced in an electoral race where the contending parties are evenly matched (such as a casting vote), and similar situations in other fields.\n\n"}
{"id": "23740", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23740", "title": "Toxin", "text": "Toxin\n\nA toxin (from ) is a poisonous substance produced within living cells or organisms; synthetic toxicants created by artificial processes are thus excluded. The term was first used by organic chemist Ludwig Brieger (1849–1919).\n\nToxins can be small molecules, peptides, or proteins that are capable of causing disease on contact with or absorption by body tissues interacting with biological macromolecules such as enzymes or cellular receptors. Toxins vary greatly in their toxicity, ranging from usually minor (such as a bee sting) to almost immediately deadly (such as botulinum toxin).\n\nToxins are often distinguished from other chemical agents by their method of production—the word toxin does not specify method of delivery (compare with venom and the broader meaning of poison—all substances that can also cause disturbances to organisms). It simply means it is a biologically produced poison.\nThere was an ongoing terminological dispute between NATO and the Warsaw Pact over whether to call a toxin a biological or chemical agent, in which the NATO opted for biological agent, and the Warsaw Pact, like most other countries in the world, for chemical agent.\n\nAccording to an International Committee of the Red Cross review of the Biological Weapons Convention, \"Toxins are poisonous products of organisms; unlike biological agents, they are inanimate and not capable of reproducing themselves\", and \"Since the signing of the Constitution, there have been no disputes among the parties regarding the definition of biological agents or toxins\".\n\nAccording to Title 18 of the United States Code, \"... the term \"toxin\" means the toxic material or product of plants, animals, microorganisms (including, but not limited to, bacteria, viruses, fungi, rickettsiae or protozoa), or infectious substances, or a recombinant or synthesized molecule, whatever their origin and method of production...\"\n\nA rather informal terminology of individual toxins relates them to the anatomical location where their effects are most notable:\n\nOn a broader scale, toxins may be classified as either exotoxins, being excreted by an organism, or endotoxins, that are released mainly when bacteria are lysed.\n\nThe term \"biotoxin\" is sometimes used to explicitly confirm the biological origin. Biotoxins can be further classified, for example, as fungal biotoxins, microbial biotoxins, plant biotoxins, or animal biotoxins.\n\nToxins produced by microorganisms are important virulence determinants responsible for microbial pathogenicity and/or evasion of the host immune response.\n\nBiotoxins vary greatly in purpose and mechanism, and can be highly complex (the venom of the cone snail contains dozens of small proteins, each targeting a specific nerve channel or receptor), or relatively small protein.\n\nBiotoxins in nature have two primary functions:\n\n\nSome of the more well known types of biotoxins include:\n\nThe term \"environmental toxin\" can sometimes explicitly include synthetic contaminants such as industrial pollutants and other artificially made toxic substances. As this contradicts most formal definitions of the term \"toxin\", it is important to confirm what the researcher means when encountering the term outside of microbiological contexts.\n\nEnvironmental toxins from food chains that may be dangerous to human health include:\n\nThe Toxicology and Environmental Health Information Program (TEHIP) at the United States National Library of Medicine (NLM) maintains a comprehensive toxicology and environmental health web site that includes access to toxins-related resources produced by TEHIP and by other government agencies and organizations. This web site includes links to databases, bibliographies, tutorials, and other scientific and consumer-oriented resources. TEHIP also is responsible for the Toxicology Data Network (TOXNET), an integrated system of toxicology and environmental health databases that are available free of charge on the web.\n\nTOXMAP is a Geographic Information System (GIS) that is part of TOXNET. TOXMAP uses maps of the United States to help users visually explore data from the United States Environmental Protection Agency's (EPA) Toxics Release Inventory and Superfund Basic Research Programs.\n\nOne of the bottlenecks in peptide/protein-based therapy is their toxicity. Recently, \"in silico\" models for predicting toxicity of peptides and proteins, developed by Gajendra Pal Singh Raghava's group, predict toxicity with reasonably good accuracy. The prediction models are based on machine learning technique and quantitative matrix using various properties of peptides. The prediction tool is freely accessible to public in the form of web server.\n\nWhen used non-technically, the term \"toxin\" is often applied to any toxic substance, even though the term toxicant would be more appropriate. Toxic substances not directly of biological origin are also termed poisons and many non-technical and lifestyle journalists follow this usage to refer to toxic substances in general.\n\nIn the context of quackery and alternative medicine, the term \"toxin\" is used to refer to any substance alleged to cause ill health. This could range from trace amounts of potentially dangerous pesticides, to supposedly harmful substances produced in the body by intestinal fermentation (auto-intoxication), to food ingredients such as table sugar, monosodium glutamate (MSG), and aspartame.\n\n"}
{"id": "1029440", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1029440", "title": "Translation unit", "text": "Translation unit\n\nIn the field of translation, a translation unit is a segment of a text which the translator treats as a single cognitive unit for the purposes of establishing an equivalence. The translation unit may be a single word, a phrase, one or more sentences, or even a larger unit.\n\nWhen a translator segments a text into translation units, the larger these units are, the better chance there is of obtaining an idiomatic translation. This is true not only of human translation, but also in cases where human translators use computer-assisted translation, such as translation memories, and also when translations are performed by machine translation systems.\n\nVinay and Darbelnet took to Saussure's original concepts of the linguistic sign when beginning to discuss the idea of a single word as a translation unit. According to Saussure, the sign is naturally arbitrary, so it can only derive meaning from contrast in other signs in that same system.\n\nHowever, Russian scholar Leonid Barkhudarov stated that, limiting it to poetry, for instance, a translation unit can take the form of a complete text. This seems to relate to his conception that a translation unit is the smallest unit in the source language with an equivalent in the target one, and when its parts are taken individually, they become untranslatable; these parts can be as small as phonemes or morphemes, or as large as entire texts.\n\nSusan Bassnett widened Barkhudarov's poetry perception to include prose, adding that in this type of translation text is the prime unit, including the idea that sentence-by-sentence translation could cause loss of important structural features.\n\nGerman linguist Werner Koller connected Barkhudarov's idea of unit sizing to the difference between the two languages involved, by stating that the more different or unrelated these languages were, the larger the unit would be.\n\nOne final perception on the idea of \"unit\" came from linguist Eugene Nida. To him, translation units have a tendency to be small groups of language building up into sentences, thus forming what he called \"meaningful mouthfuls of language\".\n\nAccording to this point of view, a translation unit is a stretch of text on which attention is focused to be represented as a whole in the target language. In this point of view we can consider the concept of the think-aloud protocol, supported by German linguist Wolfgang Lörscher: isolating units using self-reports by translating subjects. It also relates to how experienced the translator in question is: language learners take a word as a translation unit, whereas experienced translators isolate and translate units of meaning in the form of phrases, clauses or sentences.\n\nHere, the target-text unit can be mapped into an equivalent source-text unit. A case study on this matter was reported by Gideon Toury, in which 27 English-Hebrew student-produced translations were mapped onto a source text. Those students that were less experienced had larger numbers of small units at word and morpheme level in their translations, while one student with translation experience had approximately half of those units, mostly at phrase or clause level.\n"}
{"id": "56455437", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56455437", "title": "Vasudeo Sitaram Bendrey", "text": "Vasudeo Sitaram Bendrey\n\nVasudeo Sitaram Bendrey (13 February 1894 – 16 July 1986), popularly referred to as V.S.Bendre or V.C.Bendre in sources. was a historian and author from the CKP community of Maharashtra. He won the Maharashtra state award for \"Chhatrapati Sambhaji Maharaj Charitra\"\nHe is known for finding the true portrait of Shivaji (see inscription below portrait). He was a student of Vishwanath Kashinath Rajwade and worked for Bharat Itihas Sanshodhak Mandal.\n\nHis works include \"Sadhan-Chikitsa\", which is considered a concise introduction to Maratha history and a guide for tools to conduct historical research.\nHe wrote several books on the history of Marathas, and created indexes of Peshwa's Daftar or historical records, known as \"Bendrey's Indexes\".\n\nHe brought to light how Sambhaji was misrepresented and proved that he had put up a strong resistance against foreign powers and made great contributions to the Maratha state.\n"}
{"id": "5619499", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5619499", "title": "Votrax", "text": "Votrax\n\nVotrax International, Inc. (originally the Vocal division of Federal Screw Works), or just Votrax, was a speech synthesis company located in the Detroit, Michigan area from 1971 to about 1996 It began as a division of Federal Screw Works from 1971 to 1973. In 1974, it was given the \"Votrax\" name (taken from the name of its first commercial product, the model VS4 \"Votrax\") and moved to Troy, Michigan and, in 1980, split off of its parent company entirely and became Votrax International, Inc., which produced speech products up until 1984.\n\nIn 1984, the company declared bankruptcy and restructured itself as a commercial phone/speech auto-answering systems company after downsizing much of the staff. It was somewhat successful in this field, and merged with Vynet Corp., a voice-recognition prompt pioneer, in 1987. It remained Votrax inc. until about 1992, when it was renamed to or otherwise merged with Vysion, Inc., a maker of security cameras and other related devices. It remained 'Vysion Inc.' until the company declared bankruptcy in June 1994 following a court battle patent litigation loss against PATCO inc., and from the remains of the old company, restructured itself as 'Maxxar' inc in 1995. Maxxar was acquired by Open Solutions, LLC (then Open Solutions, Inc.), on February 24th, 2004, and Open Solutions, LLC was acquired by Fiserv, Inc. on January 14th, 2013. Maxxar owned the rights to the Votrax name, but the trademark lapsed on March 11, 2016.\n\nAll the Votrax speech synthesizers owe their existence to the speech synthesizer design created in 1970 by Richard T. Gagnon. After coming up with a viable design scheme in his basement laboratory, Gagnon licensed it to Federal Screw Works, whom he was working for at the time, and they continued development of his original design. This became the \"Vocal division of Federal Screw Works.\"\n\nIn 1984, Votrax either declared bankruptcy or came close to doing so, and restructured itself as a commercial phone-interface provider, and hence produced no new consumer products. The later commercial-only products are not listed on the below list because literature about these seems to have been of limited distribution and has not yet been found. During the restructuring, much of the existing staff was downsized off, including Tim Gargagliano and Kathryn F. Gargagliano, who along with two other former Votrax employees, Art Velthoven and Dale McDaniel, started Artic Technologies in 1984. Tim and Kate had earlier written an article about the SC-01 for BYTE magazine.\nIn 1987, Votrax merged with Vynet Corp and the product lines of both companies were combined.\n\nVotrax was responsible for designing and manufacturing several important early speech synthesizer back-ends, and several widely used integrated circuit phoneme synthesizers. Votrax produced speech backend modules and cards for various personal computers, and worked with the United States Naval Research Laboratory (NRL) to create an extensible speech frontend system. Votrax's speech technology was also used by 3rd parties in several arcade games, Gottlieb System 80 pinball machines, and talking terminals.\n\nDuring the 1970s, Votrax produced a series of discrete speech synthesizers, with epoxy-coated boards to thwart people copying their designs. In 1980, they designed and manufactured an integrated circuit speech synthesizer called the SC-01. This IC proved very popular in the third party market, and was produced until at least 1984. It was succeeded by the somewhat more dynamic SC-02, also known as the SSI-263P. From the beginning of SC-02 production, Silicon Systems Inc. (now part of Texas Instruments) manufactured the SC-02 chip under the product number SSI-263P, and this was apparently later adopted as the official name of the IC. Votrax continued to intermittently sell SC-01-A and SC-02 synthesis chips, and Personal Speech System text to speech units until at least October, 1990.\n\nSince early in its life, Votrax specialized in making phoneme-based speech synthesizers and text-to-speech algorithms. The popular United States Naval Research Laboratory, or \"NRL\" text-to-phoneme algorithm was developed by a collaboration between Votrax and the NRL in 1973. This algorithm and variants of it were used on a number of text-to-speech devices, such as the votrax type-n-talk, the votrax personal speech system, and the General Instruments CTS256A-AL2 text-to-allophone chip. A good rundown of the NRL algorithm can be found under reference.\n\nVotrax also supplied the SC-02 speech chip used in the amateur radio 'DOVE-OSCAR 17' or 'DOVE' Microsatellite.\n\nM. D. Mcilroy used a \"Votrax\" branded \"Federal Screw Works\" synth, a single potted block, as the 'Screw Works' backend for the Unix 'speak' command on Unix V1/2/3/4 in 1972/1973. Details of the algorithm were later (1974) described in his paper \"Synthetic English speech by rule\", Bell Telephone Laboratories Computer Science Technical Report #14, which is available on his personal site's publications page.\n\n1971:\n1972:\n1973:\n1973-1975:\n1975:\n1977:\n1978\n1978-1980:\n1980:\n1981:\n1982:\n1983:\n1984:\n1985:\n1987:\n\n1979:\n1980:\n1981:\n1982:\n1983:\n1983:\n1984-96:\n\n\n"}
